{"Comments": "This book is was very overwhelming for me. I felt like it could really happen. After I read half the book I honestly wanted to go to the grocery store and get as much food as I possibly could. It showed me how fragile our lives really are, and I was reminded again what really is important in life. <---C>Miranda</---C> grows so much, at first I think she sounds a bit spoiled but she grows out of it. And you see what people are truly capable of. As the story progresses things get worse and worse. That is what This book is was very overwhelming for me. I felt like it could really happen. After I read half the book I honestly wanted to go to the grocery store and get as much food as I possibly could. It showed me how fragile our lives really are, and I was reminded again what really is important in life. Miranda grows so much, at first I think she sounds a bit spoiled but she grows out of it. And you see what people are truly capable of. As the story progresses things get worse and worse. That is what made me want to put the book down but I really just had to know how it ended. And the end gave you something to hold on to. ...more i don't know who i am trying to kid. i keep reading these survival stories,<---M> thinking to myself</---M>, \"i will know what to do if this happens - i will have tips and tricks and i will be the last one standing.<---F>\" that's pretty much bullshit</---F>. while its true i probably could survive, i wouldn't want to. i'm a fat lazy american - i don't want to have to scavenge. i don't want to have to hunt and skin deer or build a shelter or defend myself from others looking to eat my delicious arms. i don't want to have i don't know who i am trying to kid. i keep reading these survival stories, thinking to myself, \"i will know what to do if this happens - i will have tips and tricks and i will be the last one standing.\" that's pretty much bullshit. while its true i probably could survive, i wouldn't want to. i'm a fat lazy american - i don't want to have to scavenge. i don't want to have to hunt and skin deer or build a shelter or defend myself from others looking to eat my delicious arms. i don't want to have to dig for water or develop a complex food-storage system or eat dandelion greens. and the first warm day, that would be it for me. i cannot live without air conditioning. or showering. and i am a baby now when i have to deal with (shudder) menses. post-apocalyptic menses without a duane reade around? that would be the death of me. i am no survivor. but i like to read about other people surviving and telling myself it would be different if it were me. but i know that it's a lie. oh but the book... it's a fine teen novel of a family struggling to survive after an asteroid knocks the moon a little closer to the earth and the resulting tsunamis and volcanoes and weather malfunctions. but mostly the starving. dear god, the starving... ...more Okay, I was really looking forward to this book - I've been reading a lot of dystopias lately and they've surprised me in a positive way. Not this one. Why? SCIENCE. Listen, if you're writing fantasy or sci-fi that's not based on Earth you can go all out, like, \"That asteroid knocked Zhogenaqn, our moon, out of orbit, which caused all the feueldndao plants to release zignhnwp, a deadly virus.\" It's cool. You can do that, and I won't even bat an eyelash at it. BUT when you say \"oh all the astron Okay, I was really looking forward to this book - I've been reading a lot of dystopias lately and they've surprised me in a positive way. Not this one. Why? SCIENCE. Listen, if you're writing fantasy or sci-fi that's not based on Earth you can go all out, like, \"That asteroid knocked Zhogenaqn, our moon, out of orbit, which caused all the feueldndao plants to release zignhnwp, a deadly virus.\" It's cool. You can do that, and I won't even bat an eyelash at it. BUT when you say \"oh all the astronomers were really psyched about that asteroid that would hit the moon, but it ended up knocking the moon out of orbit like a goddamn marble and make its way towards Earth\", then we have a problem. First of all, it would take an object equal to the moon in density and size, hitting it at the same velocity as its trajectory, but on an opposite direction to knock it out of said orbit. ARE YOU TELLING ME ALL THE WORLD'S ASTRONOMERS COULD NOT CALCULATE THAT SHIT?! Not that there would be anything to calculate since the book tells us the asteroid was \"a lot smaller than the moon\"! Then a bunch of unrealistic, unscientific stuff happens, which is just basically a whole case of: author did not do the research - even if I were able to ignore that moon stuff , (WHICH, AS A SCIENTIST, I CAN'T) I wouldn't be able to ignore this! How the fuck do tides cause tsunamis?! Are tides somehow causing submarine earthquakes?! And the Yellowstone volcano erupted because of the moon (WTF?!?!?!) and all it did was send out a little ash?! And suddenly malaria?! I JUST CAN'T WITH THIS SHIT. I'm not religious, my family isn't religious. I don't care about religion. That being said, the author's attack on religious characters is absurd. Why are they being portrayed as whack jobs who incite children to starve because God will provide for them while churches are keeping all the food for themselves? Give me a break, the great majority of the world's population is religious, they're not all crazy people! And churches (or the equivalent depending on denomination) have a history of helping people when disaster strikes. Bitch all you want, but even now with this fucking crisis, there are a lot of people who would be starving if it weren't for food provided by organizations connected to religious movements. Don't use YA books as your platform to spout this kind of shit. It makes you look like an asshole. Especially if you already proved to the world you are unable to grasp the basics of science. And the story? If you advertise your book as a dystopia, don't make us read a teenage girl's diary unless shit actually happens in it! I know I sound mad, and I am mad because there is so much awesome stuff you could do with science on your side!! The author even quoted Star Trek TOS, which was pretty okay on the science bits (even though it had a lot of leeway what with it being in OUTER SPACE WITH ALIENS). But this book? ...more Opening Line: \u201cLisa is pregnant. Dad called around 11 o\u2019clock to let us know.\u201d I loved this, easily one of my top reads this year; although maybe love isn\u2019t the right word because this book scared the crap out of me. It also depressed me, made me very cold and gave me OCD about stockpiling food. I mean just how long could I survive on what\u2019s in my cupboards? Not very. Three boxes of Kraft Dinner and a jar of spaghetti sauce are hardly going to see me through a wintery apocalypse now are they? (Alt Opening Line: \u201cLisa is pregnant. Dad called around 11 o\u2019clock to let us know.\u201d I loved this, easily one of my top reads this year; although maybe love isn\u2019t the right word because this book scared the crap out of me. It also depressed me, made me very cold and gave me OCD about stockpiling food. I mean just how long could I survive on what\u2019s in my cupboards? Not very. Three boxes of Kraft Dinner and a jar of spaghetti sauce are hardly going to see me through a wintery apocalypse now are they? (Although that bottle of gin will come in handy) As much as this book messed with my head, I also couldn\u2019t stop reading it, fascinated in a morbid sort of way. I\u2019ve heard it compared to a car accident and that\u2019s true, once you start this you won\u2019t be able to look away. <+++>Life As We Knew It</+++> is written in diary form, from the POV of 16year old Miranda. The entries start just prior to a meteor hitting the moon and initially her accounts are self-absorbed, and annoying in fact she comes off kind of spoiled, which let\u2019s face it, is realistic for a high school girl. I think the author probably did this on purpose to show us what her life and thoughts were like \u2018before\u2019 and how much she grows as a person by the end of this harrowing story. Miranda lives with her mother and younger brother (with another brother away at college). Her father has remarried and is expecting a baby with his new wife. Nobody is paying much attention to the astronomers or the moon. I mean at 16 it\u2019s all about you, everything else is just an annoyance. In May the meteor knocks the moon out of its orbit and everything changes. Miranda\u2019s mother is the real hero of this story, having the foresight to begin amassing food and winter clothes, (candles, batteries, water) while the rest of the world watches and waits. The power is the first to go, then Tsunamis take out anyone on the coasts, earthquakes rock the continents and volcanic ash quickly blocks out the sun. We the readers remain mostly na\u00efve about world events because we only know what Miranda writes in her diary and she\u2019s stopped listening to the news only occasionally giving us tidbit from rare radio broadcast that now mostly consist of death lists but soon even the radio stops. As summer turns to arctic winter and disease threatens those left alive Miranda\u2019s world grows smaller and smaller. School is cancelled, her friends have either moved or died and gathering firewood and water takes up most of her day. She has little strength left because she is starving and her family has moved into one room to conserve the small amount of heat the wood stove is putting out. It is cold, blinding snow storms and ash fill the sky, the food is almost gone, the food is almost gone! When she thinks about last week she wonders why she ever complained because she had it so much better, last week she was eating one meal a day, now she\u2019s eating every second day and wondering just how much longer her family can survive. She hopes she goes first. 306jb5 ...more Now I know a one star is pretty bad but when I put my cursor over the one star it says didn't like it and I did not like this book at all. I'm not going to go into full detail because it would torture me but heres the plot: You are reading about a family that lives in Pennsylvania and the character Miranda is a teenage girl living with her mom and brother. Scientists say that a meteor is going to hit the moon, and everyone doesn't really care about being a doomsday because the scientists say the Now I know a one star is pretty bad but when I put my cursor over the one star it says didn't like it and I did not like this book at all. I'm not going to go into full detail because it would torture me but heres the plot: You are reading about a family that lives in Pennsylvania and the character Miranda is a teenage girl living with her mom and brother. Scientists say that a meteor is going to hit the moon, and everyone doesn't really care about being a doomsday because the scientists say there wont be. Well the meteor did hit and cerated a Doomsday. In the first few days The family has to survive while the Moon got closer to the earth because of the impact. The Moon gets so close that the gravitational pull creates hurricanes, and other natural disasters. Somehow the author thought that a meteor could do that. This book is a horrible end of the world book, it has at most 15 pages of excitement. Seriously other then that its like reading a dictionary, other then the 15 pages of robbing a supermarket, you have to read about people dieing of old age and reading about a teen that writes in her diary. Now this character is the most boring character I have ever read about. In the Diary all you read about is how life sucks in a house. I'm being completely serious. The whole book is about a family surviving in a house and trying to get food and firewood. There is No suspense, No plot, No plot twists, No Excitement, No everything. This book remains the same, for 400 or so pages, it never changes, all you read about is surviving in a house and reading about the teen doing homework, and eating. Overall I hated this book, I really did. I love exciting books and slow dramatic books but this one has nothing to it. ...more I warn you, this is going to make me sound a little odd, if not insane: I read this book in bed, on the way to work, whenever I had free time. I\u2019d be walking along the road thinking about how it\u2019s probably good that someone shared their lunch with me today because we need to save food. And it\u2019s really grey today. Damn those volcanic ash clouds blocking the sun. I imagined all the food we\u2019d stock up on. What would be like to bring back cars full of tinned and jarred food? I need to remember to st I warn you, this is going to make me sound a little odd, if not insane: I read this book in bed, on the way to work, whenever I had free time. I\u2019d be walking along the road thinking about how it\u2019s probably good that someone shared their lunch with me today because we need to save food. And it\u2019s really grey today. Damn those volcanic ash clouds blocking the sun. I imagined all the food we\u2019d stock up on. What would be like to bring back cars full of tinned and jarred food? I need to remember to stock up on chocolate. And then I\u2019d snap out of it (\u201cWait. What?\u201d). I felt so completely absorbed in this novel that I actually felt like it was happening to me. It is told in diary form, which reminded me of first-hand accounts that they show on the news when there\u2019s some sort of catastrophe, like with the recent tsunami disaster in Japan. These accounts make you understand what\u2019s happening to different groups of people without being there. That\u2019s what was happening with me. The story is very simply told (which I found realistic as 16-year-olds\u2019 diaries often aren\u2019t literary masterpieces), and it won\u2019t convert you if you dislike young-adult literature, but I think this is why I felt more engaged with it. It is very different from adult post-apocalyptic fiction, such as The Road by Cormac McCarthy. It is less brutal and less harrowing, but that\u2019s probably why I could relate to it more. I was so disengaged with the events happening in The Road, which meant that it had less of an impact on me, whereas Life As We Knew is about a family struggling to cope after a meteor crashes into the moon, causing the orbit to be altered. Civilisation isn\u2019t wiped out completely but it forces people to adapt very quickly to a utterly different way of daily living. The family is only able to find out what\u2019s happening in the rest of the world (many, many deaths, famine, volcanic eruptions, flooding) through rare radio broadcasts. Mostly, it\u2019s just Miranda\u2019s thoughts and her account of life with her mother and her two brothers, confined to their home, wondering if they\u2019re going to live or die. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and can see why it has received so much praise. I\u2019m unsure as to whether I\u2019ll read the next two books, The Dead and the Gone and This World We Live In , as the reviews are pretty bad. But we\u2019ll see. I\u2019m now really excited about the prospect of reading more YA post-apocalyptic novels such as America Pacifica and Ashes, Ashes . Hooray! Another genre to love. Dystopian or Not Dystopian? Not Dystopian I also reviewed this book over on Pretty Books . ...more I don't usually give 1 star unless I really hated the book. I really hated this book. I'm a sucker for dystopian/end of the world books, let me tell you. I picked this one up at Barnes And Noble last summer in the hopes of finding another book I really loved, but unfortunately that was not the case. The most important part of an end-of-the-world thriller, in my opinion, is it's ability to make you think that it could actually happen. I found Pfeffer's story of the moon being knocked out of orbit I don't usually give 1 star unless I really hated the book. I really hated this book. I'm a sucker for dystopian/end of the world books, let me tell you. I picked this one up at Barnes And Noble last summer in the hopes of finding another book I really loved, but unfortunately that was not the case. The most important part of an end-of-the-world thriller, in my opinion, is it's ability to make you think that it could actually happen. I found Pfeffer's story of the moon being knocked out of orbit so far-fetched that I could barely believe it from the very beginning. CAUTION: there may be spoilers in this review, so if you haven't yet read this sorry excuse for a book, you might not want to continue reading. My second problem with this book were the characters. We get to meet Miranda, the spoiled girl who gripes because her mother won't let her eat whatever she wants. We hear the whole story from her POV. Then there's her mother, who constantly attacks George W. Bush, refuses to watch Fox News even though it's the end of the world and CNN lost its news feed, and constantly drills into her children that they aren't to help anyone. No one. Miranda's little brother manages to go to baseball camp despite everything that's happening. One of Miranda's friends refuses to eat because she believes that \"God will provide for her\". And that's how everyone religious is portrayed in the book. Completely delusional wackos. I feel like Pfeffer's voice and opinions were coming through her characters, making them shallow and unbelievable. The volcano in Yellowstone park erupts, but yet nothing happens except a little ash. ..Um, what? Tsunamis are threatening the entire coast, the death rate is rising, but yet Miranda's older brother and pregnant girlfriend manage to make it safely to their house. Miranda wanders the streets but never once gets mugged or even close to it. A dangerous virus rages, killing almost everyone who contracts it. Everyone in Miranda's family gets it except her, but yet no one dies. How convenient. The electricity flickers on at random times, and with it, the internet magically works. Even when the electricity is off, they have running water. It appears that Pfeffer didn't even research anything the slightest amount. The story gets increasingly dull in the middle. Page after page after page of Miranda and her family living in their sunroom, surviving with nothing at all happening. I almost stopped reading then, but I still had hopes that maybe, just maybe, the book would redeem itself at the end. It didn't. Miranda's family had finally run out of food, and she was walking the streets, expecting to die. But to her luck, she makes her way to the city hall. We've already been told that crops aren't making it, the food supplies are dwindling, and basically, there's nothing left. But lo and behold, the city hall is giving out a bag of food every Monday! Now where did this food come from? This is only one mystery of Pfeffer's failed dystopian world. I found myself left with a disappointed feeling, a book I hated, and a wasted $7.95. ...more 3.5 Stars These books always make me a bit paranoid, I start hoarding tins, toilet roll, candles. I need to buy a bunker in Alaska or something. For someone who doesn't always like YA, I really liked this book. It wasn't because of the writing style (which was simple), it was because the plot was so engaging. This post-apocalypic book gave me the heebie jeebies big time. I think the reason why this book really grabbed my attention was the fact that it didn\u2019t seem so far fetched. I mean maybe the specific catastrophe of a asteroid crashing into the moon and pushing it much closer to Earth is far fetched, but any kind of disaster could hap For someone who doesn't always like YA, I really liked this book. It wasn't because of the writing style (which was simple), it was because the plot was so engaging. This post-apocalypic book gave me the heebie jeebies big time. I think the reason why this book really grabbed my attention was the fact that it didn\u2019t seem so far fetched. I mean maybe the specific catastrophe of a asteroid crashing into the moon and pushing it much closer to Earth is far fetched, but any kind of disaster could happen that would leave us trying to get by without the comforts of our thermostat, supermarket, gas stations, etc. This book is told through the diary entries of a teenage girl who lives in Philadelphia. Her family struggles to get by and bit by bit things get worse. It was scary seeing their reality and wondering if it will ever come to that for us in real life. I thought the character of Miranda was pretty believable in her capabilities and mood swings. Miranda is still a teenager dealing with teenager problems even though it\u2019s pretty much the end of the world. The pacing of the book was spot on for building suspense and tension. There were a few plot holes, but I had to overlook that because not many books make me want to turn into one of those crazy dooms day prepper people who hoard food in their basements and learn secret languages. This book reminded me a lot of The Age of Miracles even though the writing wasn\u2019t as good. I\u2019m onto book 2. ...more This one has been so popular with the sixth graders I actually snagged it from the \"return\" box so I could finally read it! What a strange, depressing-yet-hopeful story about a family's struggle to survive after the moon is knocked out of its orbit and closer to Earth. It is definitely a page-turner, but I would also find myself kind of down after reading it. The one thing that bothers me about this book is that Christianity is portrayed in a horrible way. The main character (Miranda) has a best This one has been so popular with the sixth graders I actually snagged it from the \"return\" box so I could finally read it! What a strange, depressing-yet-hopeful story about a family's struggle to survive after the moon is knocked out of its orbit and closer to Earth. It is definitely a page-turner, but I would also find myself kind of down after reading it. The one thing that bothers me about this book is that Christianity is portrayed in a horrible way. The main character (Miranda) has a best friend (Megan) who has \"changed\" since she became a Christian. As the story unfolds, you see Megan behaving like a Christian, but spouting a pharisitical, self-depricating version of Christianity. She eventually starves herself to death, deciding it would be better to be in heaven. Miranda says many times to Megan, \"I hate your god.\" At first I was really offended, but I think that the \"God\" that these characters looked to is nothing like the God I know. So while I was sad that Christianity was shown in this light, I don't recognize the God we serve in that story. Kind of wary about putting this one back on the shelf for sixth graders, due to that issue as well as profanity and a few indirect sexual references. But the librarian recommended it to them and they love it. What to do? ...more Reviewed by Me for TeensReadToo.com If you're looking for one of the best books of 2006, then look no further than <---A>Susan Beth Pfeffer</---A>'s LIFE AS WE KNEW IT. A wonderful tale of family love, loss, and survival, this is one story that will stay with you long after you've turned the last page. There have been lots of changes in sixteen-year-old Miranda's life recently. Her older brother, Matt, is away at college. Her mom is still adjusting to being a divorced parent. Her younger brother, Jonny, is ob Reviewed by Me for TeensReadToo.com If you're looking for one of the best books of 2006, then look no further than Susan Beth Pfeffer's LIFE AS WE KNEW IT. A wonderful tale of family love, loss, and survival, this is one story that will stay with you long after you've turned the last page. There have been lots of changes in sixteen-year-old Miranda's life recently. Her older brother, Matt, is away at college. Her mom is still adjusting to being a divorced parent. Her younger brother, Jonny, is obsessed with baseball. And her dad and his new wife, Lisa, are expecting a baby. Dealing with all of that has been quite stressful, but Miranda's been thinking about getting back into ice-skating, and she's spending plenty of time mooning over her current hero/crush, Olympic-hopeful Brandon Erlich, a hometown hero. Miranda's also excited about the meteor that's headed towards the Moon. Some scientists predict a minor collision; teachers predict plenty of extra homework dealing with the subjects of both Moon and meteors. For Miranda and her family, and for millions of others around the world, it simply sounds like a cool event you'll get to watch from your front yard through a pair of binoculars. What happens on that fateful night is something no one expected. The meteor does, in fact, collide with the Moon. However, the impact was stronger than anyone had previously thought possible, and immediately, all throughout planet Earth, the effects of that collision begin to be felt. Tides, which are controlled by the Moon, become erratic, causing deadly tidal waves. Fissures in the Earth's crust crack, causing earthquakes worldwide, even in places where no earthquakes had ever occurred before. Within twenty-four hours, it becomes apparent that thousands upon thousands of people have died, and that, with the Moon out of its normal orbit, many more deaths are sure to follow. This may sound like a depressing story, but in fact it's a story about hope and survival. LIFE AS WE KNEW IT follows Miranda and her family through nearly a year after the meteor's collision with the Moon, and all of the events that come after it--the power outages, the food shortages, the weather changes, and the loss of human contact. As Miranda and her family come to grips with this new way of living, their bodies and spirits will be tested more than they've ever been before. But this is ultimately a story about learning to survive with what you've got, and never taking what you have for granted. A wonderful, inspiring story, LIFE AS WE KNEW IT is one you'll want to read more than once. ...more This is very much a young adult book, but very interesting. Things tend to happen a bit too easy, but still very interesting, a sort of Anne Frank for the apocalypse. Definitely recommend to teen readers and others. I'm not sure whether to give this 3 or 4 stars. It's definitely a page turner. I found myself increasingly anxious for Miranda and her family, but unfortunately, I didn't get much resolution. In the end, there is still volcanic ash in the sky meaning there will be no future food production whenever the cans of food that magically appear at city hall are extinguished. It just extended their inevitable deaths. Just a mention that the sky was clearing would have been enough for me to hope. I also d I'm not sure whether to give this 3 or 4 stars. It's definitely a page turner. I found myself increasingly anxious for Miranda and her family, but unfortunately, I didn't get much resolution. In the end, there is still volcanic ash in the sky meaning there will be no future food production whenever the cans of food that magically appear at city hall are extinguished. It just extended their inevitable deaths. Just a mention that the sky was clearing would have been enough for me to hope. I also didn't mind that she never figured out what happened to Dan and her dad, but she could have at least asked about a letter from her dad at city hall. Then if nothing was there, I would have assumed that something happened to her father and leave it at that, but she goes downtown to ask and then nothing. It made me sad that everyone knew Jonny was the one to survive if it came down to one. I wanted a reason for Jonny instead of Matt or Miranda, something more than he was the youngest and a boy. That Miranda knew that and when she confronted her mother she didn't say anything to deny it or comfort her bugged me about her. I didn't always like her mother, but I didn't always like Miranda either, which just made them realistic portrayals of mother and daughter. I enjoyed the unfolding of the characters as much as I enjoyed the plot unfolding. The story was frightening and made me want to go out and double-stock my food storage. A lot of the daily trials that I hadn't considered popped up in the story. Miranda's mom was smart, getting right on the ball buying up all the supplies they needed, but even then, I kept thinking that their food supply should have run out long before\u2014and they were the ones who bothered stocking up. How was everyone else surviving? I know how the preacher was surviving, but I wish there had been some follow up with him too, some discovery that he had died in the flu epidemic. I wanted her to find out how many people in her town survived. Now that city hall was open and they had food, they could have asked. It's good that the book made me question so many things, I just wish a few of my questions had been answered. On a sidenote, Pfeffer's statement that people who turn to God in times of grief brainwashed and stupid rubbed me the wrong way. There's also her obvious portrayal of Bush as an idiot hiding out on his ranch in Texas telling everyone that everything was okay. That didn't bother me as much as I just didn't think this was the place for such strong political (or religious) statements. It added character to the story for sure. I just didn't like it. Religion and politics, the two taboo topics and all that. The book had a lot of promise, but I wanted more. More from Miranda, more explanation of what was going on, and more of a conclusion. Not more as in I loved the story and want to continue it. More as in if Pfeffer had answered a few things for me than maybe I would be curious, but she left too much open for me to go on. ...more Imagine Armageddon directed by Catherine Hardwicke instead of Michael Bay. <+++>Life As We Knew It</+++> is an end-of-the-world scenario told through the eyes of a teenage girl, who writes down everything that happens in amazingly long and detailed diary entries, which become increasingly implausible as she writes multi-page narratives about how she just dragged her entire sick family out of a smoke-filled sunroom while on the verge of starving to death herself. This is not a bad book -- it's got a voice th Imagine Armageddon directed by Catherine Hardwicke instead of Michael Bay. Life As We Knew It is an end-of-the-world scenario told through the eyes of a teenage girl, who writes down everything that happens in amazingly long and detailed diary entries, which become increasingly implausible as she writes multi-page narratives about how she just dragged her entire sick family out of a smoke-filled sunroom while on the verge of starving to death herself. This is not a bad book -- it's got a voice that will speak to teen readers (though I think that voice sounds more like Mom than that of an actual teenage girl) and it's got moments of drama and a heartwarming hope-will-carry-you-through message. But speaking as someone whose YA reading when I was a teen was more along the lines of Robert Heinlein, Edgar Rice Burroughs, and (oh, the shame!) Piers Anthony, I found Life As We Knew It to be a rather dumbed-down apocalypse in which the author pulled her punches every time. All the horror is abstracted away; Miranda knows bad things are happening out in the world, but she's never confronted with any real terror-filled moments, and most of her suffering boils down to hunger and boredom. Miranda's family are the antithesis of Heinlein characters -- where Heinlein's protagonists are omni-competent superheroes who are supposed to teach you that humans can survive anything with enough determination and resourcefulness, Miranda and her family basically sit in their house rationing their hoarded food and hoping someone will show up to turn the power back on and feed them, teaching you that the only hope in a crisis is the government. (If you think with this little rant that I'm some kind of anti-government libertarian, my fondness for Heinlein juveniles notwithstanding, you are so off-base, but the passivity and helplessness of these characters just annoyed me no end.) Pfeffer wanted to make us feel what the end of the world might be like for an ordinary teenager, and in that she succeeded, but quite frankly, an ordinary teenager isn't likely to survive a situation like that. I gave this book two stars because it annoyed me with the lack of any proactive action and the convenient ending that only reinforced the whole wait-for-help message of the book, but I have to admit that I believed in Miranda as a character, she was pretty sympathetic, and the book is a page-turner that moves right along. I think a younger reader would probably enjoy it a lot more; this is one of those Young Adult novels that just isn't likely to have much appeal for a grown-up who's read any real science fiction. ...more \"Life as We Knew It\" is a teen book version of disaster movies such as \"Armageddon,\" \"2012,\" and \"The Day After Tomorrow\" told from a 16-year old girl's POV. Basically, you have a natural cataclysm that affects the entire planet and you follow a girl and her family through their day-to-day struggles to survive the aftermath. The book is compelling in many ways. You find yourself imagining what you would do in Miranda\u2019 situation. Like many have said in the reviews before me, you feel an urge to g \"Life as We Knew It\" is a teen book version of disaster movies such as \"Armageddon,\" \"2012,\" and \"The Day After Tomorrow\" told from a 16-year old girl's POV. Basically, you have a natural cataclysm that affects the entire planet and you follow a girl and her family through their day-to-day struggles to survive the aftermath. The book is compelling in many ways. You find yourself imagining what you would do in Miranda\u2019 situation. Like many have said in the reviews before me, you feel an urge to get ready for such a disaster and stock up on canned food and fuel. What is disappointing about this book however, is the flatness of the narration. Call me naive, but I expect a high point, some kind of conflict, climax if you wish, in every book I read. This book is rather underwhelming in that respect. There is rarely any excitement or drama. There is no intensity or build-up, and thus the long-awaited resolution fails to touch you. Another bothersome thing is the author's too obvious political views and opinions of religion. While I share Pfeffer's views, I think she should have been a little more subtle about them, after all it's a book for kids. Overall, an engrossing but monotonous book. I enjoyed listening to it but I am not sure if I want to read the sequel. Reading challenge: #1 - L. ...more I first read Life As We Knew It five years ago\u00a0when I couldn't get enough of post-apocalyptic and dystopian fiction. This time, I was looking for an audiobook to listen to on my commute and after a few failed attempts at reading paperbacks while squished on the train,\u00a0a re-read seemed like the perfect choice! I loved Life As We Knew It originally because it made me feel like I was surviving alongside Miranda after a meteor collides with the moon, altering the Earth's climate, making it almost im I first read Life As We Knew It five years ago\u00a0when I couldn't get enough of post-apocalyptic and dystopian fiction. This time, I was looking for an audiobook to listen to on my commute and after a few failed attempts at reading paperbacks while squished on the train,\u00a0a re-read seemed like the perfect choice! I loved Life As We Knew It originally because it made me feel like I was surviving alongside Miranda after a meteor collides with the moon, altering the Earth's climate, making it almost impossible to continue with life as it was. If anything, the audiobook was even more atmospheric. Miranda reading her diary aloud meant that I caught little bits of the story that I think I missed the first time \u2013 Emily Bauer has done a fantastic job at narrating the audiobook. It's been 10 years since it was first published, but Life As We Knew It is\u00a0still one of the few YA post-apocalyptic novels that\u00a0had me thinking about it after I put it down. I also reviewed this book over on Pretty Books . ...more War besser als anfangs erwartet. Bin schon gespannt auf den n\u00e4chsten Teil. I am so not as prepared for the end of the world as I thought I was! Years and years ago, I had a massive platonic crush on a girl named Micheala. She was awesome\u2026. She had bright orange dreadlocks and rode an orange, sparkly motorcycle (and knew how to fix it!) She grew her own veggies, canned them, made pottery, knew how to knit, how to make paper, how to make her own cat food, she was making a loom so she could make her own cloth for clothes... not that she actually did all of this stuff on a I am so not as prepared for the end of the world as I thought I was! Years and years ago, I had a massive platonic crush on a girl named Micheala. She was awesome\u2026. She had bright orange dreadlocks and rode an orange, sparkly motorcycle (and knew how to fix it!) She grew her own veggies, canned them, made pottery, knew how to knit, how to make paper, how to make her own cat food, she was making a loom so she could make her own cloth for clothes... not that she actually did all of this stuff on a regular basis. But she had the equipment and the knowledge. One day, she confessed to me that she had a day dream about the end of the world and being able to be totally self sufficient while everything else was a shambles. She was my hero, I thought she was amazing. (Did I mention that I smoked a lot of pot when I was younger?? ;)) It\u2019s been years since Micheala & I have hung out, and I\u2019m lately too busy with regular life to continue learning all of these crazy handmade crafts that I used to be so fascinated in. But I still love dystopian, apocalyptic stories. So, of course Life as We Knew It is right up my alley. The moon being knocked into a different orbit & irreversibly changing conditions on earth is just about as big of an apocalypse as there is. Susan Beth Pfeffer provided plenty of natural disasters to make life in northeastern PA pretty grim and crappy. Miranda is a likeable character with a voice that is easy to read. She is an incredibly realistic teenager ~ self involved, not too aware of the world around her. But as others have pointed out, this story, while mesmerizing, falls a little flat. There is no climax, no controversy. Although I appreciate the realness of Miranda not knowing or caring to know the condition of the world around her\u2026 I want to know! Even so, I enjoyed reading about the trials Miranda & her family faced and how they dealt with them. I am definitely reading the second in this series. Hopefully Miranda and her family will learn more about becoming self-sufficient (I wonder why they didn\u2019t turn to the library for survival books?)Maybe there will be some tension, a love interest, and more natural disasters. But if not, I\u2019m sure I will continue to read and use this as both a reference and a check list\u2026 better safe than sorry, right? ;) ...more I have to give the author props for a wonderful premise to a book, and after reading it, I took nothing in my life for granted (a drink of cold clean water). I have huge problems however with making fun of the President only to solve the problems in the book ... HOW? Yea ... count on the government to get food for you. Last time I checked, the PRESIDENT IS THE GOVERNMENT! How can we count on the GOVERNMENT for the food if the PRESIDENT (who according to the narrator totally messed this whole thi I have to give the author props for a wonderful premise to a book, and after reading it, I took nothing in my life for granted (a drink of cold clean water). I have huge problems however with making fun of the President only to solve the problems in the book ... HOW? Yea ... count on the government to get food for you. Last time I checked, the PRESIDENT IS THE GOVERNMENT! How can we count on the GOVERNMENT for the food if the PRESIDENT (who according to the narrator totally messed this whole thing up) is RUNNING THE GOVERNEMNT! Oh, and the churches? They are all run by people who let little girls starve while they eat all the food. Last time I checked, tons of churches stock food pantries all over the world; not necessarily governments stocking food pantries. Huge problems with the way the story came out. Then again, maybe it is just somebody with a problem with churches. Me? I would rather count on people that I know from church than people who I don't know (government). That is just me. ...more I usually really enjoy a dystopian post-apoclyptic novel more than most, but this one left me cold on several fronts. The basic gist of the story is an asteroid hits the moon and causes immense changes to the teenage heroine's lifestyle. Issue 1: not enough mayhem ensues with the events in the story. I would easily expect more looting and depravity in this type of scenario. Everything seemed too put together. For example, the coastal regions are decimated ... yet internet access is still available I usually really enjoy a dystopian post-apoclyptic novel more than most, but this one left me cold on several fronts. The basic gist of the story is an asteroid hits the moon and causes immense changes to the teenage heroine's lifestyle. Issue 1: not enough mayhem ensues with the events in the story. I would easily expect more looting and depravity in this type of scenario. Everything seemed too put together. For example, the coastal regions are decimated ... yet internet access is still available when power is working. Hmmmm... Issue 2: too much teenager whining angst. Yes, this was a young adult book, but others I have read within the same genre were more sophisticated at telling the story from the perspective of the teenager without sounding like a contrived plot device. Issue 3: there was a lot of anti-Christianity thoughts in this book. Characters that had any faith in their life were portrayed as weak and ignorant. It got old to me very quickly. I still will likely read more in the series to see if anything changes. ...more For some odd reason, I've been reading a lot of end of the world as we know it types of books the past couple of weeks. And they've all managed to convince me that should the apocalypse happen, I am not in any way, shape or form prepared to survive for long. Whether this is a good or a bad thing, I haven't quite decided yet. But that said, that thought as well as the sheer bleakness of several of the novels have led to a lot of restless nights, wondering if its time to start hoarding food and st For some odd reason, I've been reading a lot of end of the world as we know it types of books the past couple of weeks. And they've all managed to convince me that should the apocalypse happen, I am not in any way, shape or form prepared to survive for long. Whether this is a good or a bad thing, I haven't quite decided yet. But that said, that thought as well as the sheer bleakness of several of the novels have led to a lot of restless nights, wondering if its time to start hoarding food and stocking up on weapons and ammo. Of the recent round of end of the world as we know it thriller I've read in the past few weeks, \"Life As We Knew It\" is the most haunting. Miranda is your average 16-year-old girl who looks forward to learning to drive, the prom and her first boyfriend. What's she not pumped up about is the upcoming event when an asteroid will slam into the moon. But that's all anyone can talk about at school and on the night of the big event, Miranda and her family are all staring up at the sky when the events happens. The asteroid hits the moon, shifting its orbit closer to Earth and causing all hell to break loose. Tides shifts, the weather pattern changes and volcanoes begin erupting in places they weren't before. Miranda's mother is on top of things, quickly gathering as much canned food and non-perishable items as she can for their pantry and setting about making sure their home is ready for the long haul without modern conveniences. (You know, silly things like heat, running water and medical supplies). At times, \"Life As We Knew It\" is a haunting, scary and bleak novel of survival. Told in the form of Miranda's journal, we hear about the frustration in keeping the electricity on for any length of time in the Pennsylvania community that serves as a setting for the novel. There's also an interesting thread about Miranda's new friend who has found religion and her reaction to the events unfolding. One fascinating sequence sees Miranda noticing a line for supplies and delaying getting in line for a few minutes to tell a potential love interest that the line is there. Miranda is later chewed out by her mother for going after the potential boyfriend and not putting her family first. It's an effective moment that underlines the desperation that is being felt by the characters and the chilling ramifications of what the new world order is. And while the novel has its haunting moments, it also has some things that make you scratch your head and go, \"Huh?\" The biggest is that despite warnings that something catastrophic could happen to the moon when the asteroid hits it, no one does anything to prepare for it beyond baking cookies and pointing telescopes. As we hear about great tidal waves washing out large coastal area and killing millions. It doesn't make a lot of sense that no one might recommend evacuating the area due to larger tides. (Of course, part of this could be that Susan Beth Pfieffer's unnamed president is a thinly veiled stand in for George W. Bush and she could be making some type of political statement). If you're looking for a book that will fill you with hope about the human spirit and its will to survive, you probably won't find that here either. This one is bleak, folks. And that's even before volcanoes begin erupting and surrounding the planet with a thick cloud of ash, dashing hopes for harvesting crops and making the food situation that much more bleak. \"Life as We Knew It\" has garnered some reviews and for the sheer world-building power and haunting nature of the story, Pfieffer is to be commended. However, there are still a few flaws to the story that take it from what could be a great book to just a pretty good one. ...more I've come to realize why I am addicted to these types of books, for years I've had nightmares about the world ending or some kind of disaster where I'm trying to save my kids and sometimes other people. I do know that I have these nightmares when I am stressed out and overwhelmed and that's what the dream is symbolizing(something in my life is out of control) and me trying to save people symbolizes that I'm trying to get it under control. I used to be huge into dreams and their meanings. But, st I've come to realize why I am addicted to these types of books, for years I've had nightmares about the world ending or some kind of disaster where I'm trying to save my kids and sometimes other people. I do know that I have these nightmares when I am stressed out and overwhelmed and that's what the dream is symbolizing(something in my life is out of control) and me trying to save people symbolizes that I'm trying to get it under control. I used to be huge into dreams and their meanings. But, still these dreams are so real and scary that I will think about them for days. It also terrifies me that this could really happen to me and my loved ones. So, I guess reading these types of books gives me a little hope that we could survive, as crazy as that may seem. Life as we knew it, wow, it's pretty amazing. When I first started reading it I thought it was just ok(before all the action started) but then it had this snowball affect and just kept getting better and better and better. I'm impressed at where this author has taken me and all the emotions I felt along the way. When these characters were starving, I couldn't even eat, that's how attached I felt to these characters. When Miranda bursts into laughter after hysteria and panic, I totally get it, I've had these same emotions plenty. This story is told thorugh Miranda's diary. Miranda is a 16-year old normal girl, who lives with her mother and two brothers. She's been writing about her family, her friends, interests, homework and all the excitement over the meteor that's going to be hitting the moon. When this huge meteor hits the moon it knocks the moon out of orbit and causes a lot of world disasters. Tsunamis are hitting everywhere and then there's crazy storms and soon volcanic erruptions and volcanic ash covering the world, servere climate changes, states are just gone, submerged under water. So many people have died and the ones still alive are struggling to survive. Stores are being ransacked, gasoline prices are crazy unbelievable(like $75 for 3 gallons of gas), electricity is almost non-existent and it's a matter of time before food and water runs out. The main characters are strong and also very normal, family-next-door type. The kids grow up pretty quickly and learn to make sacrifices and value life. This book really makes you appreciate the little things and important things in life. ...more This is the kind of book I love. This is the kind of book I wish more schools were reading. The discussions and papers on this would just be so awesome. Thoughts/questions going through my mind: *Would I want to survive? *Would I leave my home or stay? *How could I leave? *Why did Mrs. Nesbitt not move in? *What would my role in surving have been? *What would they have done without a wood stove? *Will things ever get back to normal? *What modern convience would I miss the most? *What's the likelyhood my This is the kind of book I love. This is the kind of book I wish more schools were reading. The discussions and papers on this would just be so awesome. Thoughts/questions going through my mind: *Would I want to survive? *Would I leave my home or stay? *How could I leave? *Why did Mrs. Nesbitt not move in? *What would my role in surving have been? *What would they have done without a wood stove? *Will things ever get back to normal? *What modern convience would I miss the most? *What's the likelyhood my 4 year old son would have survived? (I know that's kind of morbid sounding, but I thought about him the whole time reading this) *Are we headed for armegeddon? *My parents, could I convince them to move in with me? *What about the poor people? *Are the rich/upper class more likely to survive? *Where is the next book going to take us? * Is the ash in the air going to kill everyone? * Why are they not wearing masks or wet rags everywhere? * Is the Mom going to die? * What is up with Matt (towards the end)?? * Why do they not just get rid of their pet? Seems like just another mouth to feed and extra work? *Why did the Mom let Johnny go to Baseball camp? *What is the importance of Peter's character? or Dan's? *How many new \"believers\"/converts happened basically overnight? Why? I'm sure there are tons more, but the point I'm trying to make is this book made me think. I like that. I want #2 now. This is written in journal format, I have had 50/50 luck with that. This is on the awesome side of that percentage. Geez, I lurves a end of the world book! READ THIS! ...more This was an enjoyable story, but it felt long. I liked the characters in this book, but they did make some poor decisions. Not wanting to conserve food? Not worrying about running out of water? Wanting to give blankets away? Not eating because God doesn\u2019t want you to? Going swimming even though there are mosquito-borne illnesses going about? Not the smartest bunch really. The storyline in this was okay, but it also had some dodgy moments. I\u2019m not sure how big their car/van was, but the number of c This was an enjoyable story, but it felt long. I liked the characters in this book, but they did make some poor decisions. Not wanting to conserve food? Not worrying about running out of water? Wanting to give blankets away? Not eating because God doesn\u2019t want you to? Going swimming even though there are mosquito-borne illnesses going about? Not the smartest bunch really. The storyline in this was okay, but it also had some dodgy moments. I\u2019m not sure how big their car/van was, but the number of cart-fulls of stuff they put in it, not to mention themselves, and some candles and other stuff, it would have had to have been a freaking lorry to fit it all in! And the people\u2019s expectations were ridiculously high too; even though they had no food, heat, or electricity, they expected the school to have it? Hmm. The ending to this was okay, although it did seem a little unlikely that things were resolved the way they were. 6.5 out of 10 ...more 5 stars! I remember how this book was fanatic! I love everything about this book. It has nice clean writing from the beginning to the end. It was totally a book worth reading. This book ... *sighs* I don't know what to say, I liked it. It was something really different from what I expected to be. It turned out so well. Everything in this book is so perfectly described and written that it's easy to get lost in it. It really makes you think for all the things around you and to be thankful. While I was reading I forgot about reality and felt like I was in the book and live through all of the things the characters went. It was like a rollercoaster ride!!! I've always loved apocalyptic and post-apocalyptic stories. One of my favourite books, Obernewtyn , introduced me to this genre, among other things, back in primary school and since then I've read them more-or-less as I've come across them. I particularly liked Jean Urr's Plague 99 and its sequel, Come Lucky April , as well as John Marsden's Tomorrow series (I really must re-read all these some day!). When I was studying for my teaching degree, we had one assignment for English that involved putti I've always loved apocalyptic and post-apocalyptic stories. One of my favourite books, Obernewtyn , introduced me to this genre, among other things, back in primary school and since then I've read them more-or-less as I've come across them. I particularly liked Jean Urr's Plague 99 and its sequel, Come Lucky April , as well as John Marsden's Tomorrow series (I really must re-read all these some day!). When I was studying for my teaching degree, we had one assignment for English that involved putting together a collection of books, poetry, plays or movies and non-fiction that were linked by a theme, for a theme-based English course (that's one way you can teach, or structure, high school English - of course, university classes are all theme-based!). The theme that I settled on was (poorly) titled \"No one to help me but myself\" (which is grammatically incorrect, I know. It should be \"but me\"). I was quite pleased with the result, and until I started putting it together I hadn't really consciously noticed this trend. From Tomorrow When the War Began to Life of Pi , from The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle to Coraline and Turtles Can Fly (the film), they all had one thing in common: kids, of all ages, alone, either with no adults or no \"functioning\" adults, surviving and drawing upon resources they never realised they had. I find these stories - and apocalyptic or post-apocalyptic stories are excellent vehicles for this theme because the rules of society, family structure and anything familiar are totally disrupted - to be symbolic and politicised but also highlights how resourceful and amazing kids can be, how strong and resilient and vulnerable all at the same time. Hence, Life as We Knew It sounded right up my alley. And this isn't a bad book, far from it. But it just didn't work for me. It certainly doesn't fit the theme I was talking about, and I'm not saying that's a bad thing either, just that it didn't grip me like the above examples did. It's present day America (during the Bush Jr years) and people are getting excited about seeing an asteroid hit the moon. But no one predicts what happens: the collision moves the moon off its axis, pushing it closer to the earth. The consequences start almost immediately. Wild weather patterns, including tornadoes and giant tsunamis that devastate coastal cities like New York and Sydney; extreme heat followed by volcano eruptions where volcanoes had never erupted in human memory before, covering the sky with grey ash and blocking out the sun. School is cancelled. The phone rarely works. The electricity comes on intermittently until disappearing altogether. Food is scarce. There's no gas for the furnace or the stove. No petrol for vehicles. Everything grinds to a halt and every family must look out for itself. For Miranda and her family - her mother, her older brother Matt and her younger brother Jonny - every day becomes a matter of survival, just like for everyone else. No ones if things will get better. They just try to plan for the next season and take joy in small pleasures that they once would never have noticed. They're on a race for survival though: is it possible that things will improve before their food runs out? Why bother at all? Maybe they should sacrifice themselves so that one of them can make it. But what future will there be? Will it be worth living? Narrated by Miranda in diary entries, she's at one and the same time a bland, almost boring character and a very well-written archetype of what I assume is a typical American teenager. Her world has an incredibly narrow focus - she rarely if ever thinks about the rest of the world, let alone beyond her own town or state. She goes through a noble character growth, moving from self-interested, argumentative teen to someone who almost kills herself caring for her family and putting them first. But she is very much an observer, a passive narrator and not much of a protagonist. Her mother and brother Matt manage everything, they think of what's needed and do it. It's not until they fall ill and Miranda alone must keep them alive and do what needs to be done, that she really grows up (which fits into my theme, just barely). The diary structure was perfect for the story, enabling a simple past tense narrative that had the suspense and unpredictability, as well as the feel of Now, of present tense. It's uneventful, since it's a survival story, and that would normally have been something I would have loved. I don't need flashy action or melodrama. But in a way, using Miranda's voice and her narrow perceptions was limiting, and she wasn't a character I bonded to in any way. I barely liked her. She's a little too obvious, as a narrative device, but then again I can see her appeal to many teens. It's a case of \"I probably would have enjoyed this more if I'd read it as a teen\", which bothers me. Sometimes it's a simple matter of having read too much over the years that's better, by comparison. Also, as much as it's understandable - especially considering the lack of communication - that the rest of the world barely gets a mention. Still, it was alienating. Here I am, as a reader, involved in her story but I'm also one of the people Miranda never thinks of. It's not a rational feeling but it lurked nonetheless. The interesting thing is, we could be facing these very climactic changes - and we already are, if not to the same extremes (yet?). But they will be and are changes that we have directly or indirectly caused, whereas in Life as We Knew It , it's nothing to do with us. It wasn't our fault. We are absolved of the big Fuck Up. I prefer more responsible apocalyptic fiction, yes I do. I just feel that it teaches us more, either through metaphor, allegory, symbolism or the hypothetical (like Fantasy), or a more direct approach. It becomes more like a mental puzzle then. It was interesting seeing this hypothesis play out, but at the same time, it wasn't interesting at all. At the end of the day, I was glad to finish it so it was finished, but I don't see myself picking up any of the other books. At the end of the day, the general premise doesn't interest me as much as it did in theory, now I've read this first book. ...more Pfeffer writes about the break down of society, government and life as we know it due to a series of natural disasters. Unlike other apocalypse themed books where the breakdown happens immediately and citizens are on their own from the beginning, Life as We Knew It describes a gradual downturn of society. And in that way, the decline feels more realistic but it is also more frightening. If things were to go wayward in our current modern civilization, I think it would be as painted in this book \u2013 Pfeffer writes about the break down of society, government and life as we know it due to a series of natural disasters. Unlike other apocalypse themed books where the breakdown happens immediately and citizens are on their own from the beginning, Life as We Knew It describes a gradual downturn of society. And in that way, the decline feels more realistic but it is also more frightening. If things were to go wayward in our current modern civilization, I think it would be as painted in this book \u2013 in the beginning there would be some mail service, some government services, some infrastructure, on and off electricity and telephone service, some basic routines remaining but eventually those modern amenities of civilization would fade away. That is exactly what happens here, the decline happens but it takes months for it to do so; as Miranda, the narrator of the story says about her family, \u201cWe are dying in increments.\u201d This book does not start out with a bang; it begins slowly. The story unfolds through journal entries by a high school junior named Miranda. She is concerned with her extra curricular activities and fights she has with her friends. She misses her dad as her parents have remarried and he lives in a different city and she misses her older brother who is away at college. Slowly, small changes begin to happen as a consequence of one stunning natural phenomenon. Miranda reports in her journal how her family survives from day to day and what they do to prepare for when things will worse. The little things that happen to the main character, Miranda, illustrate what could happen in a world gone mad with desperate people and a few still in power. People with weapons and people with friends are able to get what they need quicker and easier than people without. Many of the occurrences in this book are not exciting but more day to day \u2013 getting food, chopping wood, surviving a blizzard, living through a summer without air condition. In a way, this book is a less hopeful (and completely fictional) modern version of Little House on the Prairie. The narrator is able to show, through these bits and pieces, the reader is shown the unraveling of a neatly constructed society. It took me a few chapters to be pulled into the story. The style of story telling was not appealing to me at first. Additionally, I listened to the narrated version and while it is well done, it took me about 45 minutes to become accustomed to hearing the narrator read the story; she takes on the persona of a young teenage girl very well. But at first, I thought it was distracting. One of the details of life that Pfeffer expresses so well are the day to day problems that arise when people are living in close quarters, including personal tensions between people that love each other and are very stressed. Miranda and her mother argue about typical teenage v. mom type things, but gradually the arguments evolve as their lives change. Pfeffer made these arguments real and poignant. A problem that I had with the book was the lack of information as to how other people in the town were doing and if they were doing well, how did they manage that? It was all a mystery and the author addresses this by saying that people didn\u2019t talk about how much food they had or where they got it. Additionally, the secondary characters were so flat. It could be the method of delivery \u2013 journal entries by the main character \u2013 but it would have been nice to have the secondary characters, which greatly effected Miranda\u2019s life, more developed. Ultimately, I thought the book was a decent YA apocalyptic novel about natural disaster. It is a short quick read (or listen). There are other books in this genre (both YA and apocalyptic) that I prefer, but I was riveted and could not turn my iPhone off; I wanted to keep listening to this book. Another book in this genre that addresses this topic really well is Ashfall by Mike Mullin . However, I think that Ashfall does it in a more exciting and intense manner. And perhaps, is somewhat more realistic (if an apocalypse book can be realistic). ...more This is a fantastic dystopian novel by Pfeffer which I really enjoyed reading. When I first began reading the book, I didn't feel particularly enamoured by the protagonist, Miranda, or her writing. However, after reading on for only a little while, I found myself absolutely absorbed into the story. One of the great things about this book is that it's realistic and I could actually imagine it happening - it's quite unnerving in that aspect. It's not hard to put yourself in Miranda's position and This is a fantastic dystopian novel by Pfeffer which I really enjoyed reading. When I first began reading the book, I didn't feel particularly enamoured by the protagonist, Miranda, or her writing. However, after reading on for only a little while, I found myself absolutely absorbed into the story. One of the great things about this book is that it's realistic and I could actually imagine it happening - it's quite unnerving in that aspect. It's not hard to put yourself in Miranda's position and think about what you would do if the catastrophe actually happened. The tension is great. I can understand why people may see this book as a little repetitive but it's still realistic, it would be that way. I found the family to be endearing and the way that they worked together wasn't unlike how I'd imagine a lot of family units would work. I found Miranda to be a little irritating and some things she did at the beginning of the book irked me, but I couldn't blame her for most of her thought processes or actions and I connected with her a lot more as the book and situation progressed. I loved reading this and it is an easy read that I'd recommend. ...more DNF 72%", "Title": "Life As We Knew It"},
