{"Comments": "I wanted so badly to like this book. It has so much going for it.<---F> It is original and inventive</---F>. I never once caught myself thinking, \"Now,<---M> where did I read that before? Oh</---M>, right, in the last three books!\" The idea of the graced, their skills and their mismatched eyes; of the seven kingdoms; of the characters themselves. All of them were uniquely Cashore's own. Her prose was clear and lucid, though there were passages that dragged and made me want to skip ahead. So, pacing was occasionally a pro I wanted so badly to like this book. It has so much going for it. It is original and inventive. I never once caught myself thinking, \"Now, where did I read that before? Oh, right, in the last three books!\" The idea of the graced, their skills and their mismatched eyes; of the seven kingdoms; of the characters themselves. All of them were uniquely Cashore's own. Her prose was clear and lucid, though there were passages that dragged and made me want to skip ahead. So, pacing was occasionally a problem, but not the actual words themselves. I thought it quite notable, especially as a debut. However. Yes, that dreaded however. But before we get to that, a quick disclaimer. I certainly have no say on what Cashore did or did not intend the book to say. I only can say with certainty what I find in the book and I hope you can agree that if, in addition to great writing and engaging stories, one desires one's reading material to have at the very least some simple ethics, it is more than reasonable that some readers will discuss and debate the ethics and social mores that certain features of this book present. Personally, I appreciate being able to discuss something that a book mentions and which allows me to think of it in an entirely different light. I am fully aware that many might feel that this review is biased and unfair, written from a narrow-minded, hidebound mentality. How dare I allow my personal convictions to color my view of a book I read? Especially a fantasy book that clearly takes place in a world that is not this one. But before you comment to let me know that I am a horrible disgrace and disappointment as a human for allowing my personal convictions to color my view of a book that I have read, please take a moment to know that I am not allowing any comments on this review. I had nearly 50 comments on this review and I ultimately chose to delete them when the vitriolic, contemptuous comments kept coming. For those of you whose opinions differed, but who chose to share that contrary opinion with civility and tolerance, I would like once more to extend my sincerest thanks, especially to Ariel and Angie. For the others that commented to agree or say thanks for the review, I hope it helped. So, back to that however. My issue is that firstly, what Po and <---C>Katsa</---C> have is not love. Infatuation? Certainly. Affection? Sure. But love, \"true love,\" is wanting what is best for the other person and doing whatever one can so that the other is able to move toward the best. Thus, love is at its core sacrificial and giving. What is the purpose of Katsa's and Po's sexual relationship? It is of transient emotional and physical benefit, but how does it benefit them ultimately? I don\u2019t believe that love equals sex, and the book seemed to infer just that. But say she did love him. I'm all for girl power and females don't need a guy to be fulfilled. All for that. I even understand that at that point in Katsa's life she had just claimed her freedom and could not imagine entering any other station of life that would in any way limit or curtail her personal liberty. All well and fine. But then she goes ahead and enters into a physical relationship with a guy because she \"loves\" him, but just can't ever be \"married\" to him because that would limit her sense of self and her own freedom to come and go as she pleased. Granted, the concept of marriage within the confines of that secondary world might differ, it could be a total abnegation of self, but I never got that sense when they talked about marriages in their society. In fact, at its core, marriage (<---B>in our world</---B>) is a contract of personal commitment between two people, but Katsa, while perhaps legitimately shunning marriage in her world, still has no desire to ever commit to Po in any way. So it would seem that Katsa's issues had way more to do with herself and her own flaws and insecurities than the idea of commitment or even Po. Given his affection for her, he would never have limited her freedom. But flip the coin. What if it was Po who \u201cloved\u201d Katsa, but refused to marry her because then he would not be free? Where he was the one who would take whatever Katsa had to offer, but did not care enough to actually make any sort of commitment to her? That likely would not go over as well. It is strange what a double standard we have in relationships, esp. in a \"feminist\" age. We praise novels that show females as strong, independent individuals, even if that means they are also selfish and controlling, while we quite rightly condemn that sort of behavior in male protagonists. But then not only are we giving a sad view of a \"strong\" woman, as if that is the only way to portray a vibrant and intelligent female, we are also touting a weak and ineffective masculine image that indicates that no male can be resourceful or a leader or else he is preventing the girl from being who she ought to be free to be...etc. When we did we stop striving for an ideal where both men and women complimented each other, each being allowed their own strengths, and being equals rather than always rivals and competitors? So, again, a talented new author, but I have deep reservations about some of the messages in this book and I doubt I will recommend it to many people. Which is a shame considering the quality of the rest of the story, which is easily three stars for the prose, though the plot had a few spots that seemed out of place. <+++>Graceling</+++> never seemed like it should have been a love story (much less a hook-up), and I was loving it as a fine fantasy/ personal growth novel, but once they brought in the romantic/ anti-romantic elements, it lost me. ...more <+++>Graceling</+++> by <---A>Kristin Cashore</---A> follows in a burgeoning market for strong female characters. Katsa is much like Katniss from The Hunger Games in her naive perception of the world, her coldness and tendency towards pragmatic practicality. She is similar to Xhex from the Black Dagger Brotherhood in her disgust of all things \"feminine\". The story is well written, with engaging, fun characters. Katsa is fun to read about. The plot may be a little predictable at times but it did throw me a curve ball tow Graceling by Kristin Cashore follows in a burgeoning market for strong female characters. Katsa is much like Katniss from The Hunger Games in her naive perception of the world, her coldness and tendency towards pragmatic practicality. She is similar to Xhex from the Black Dagger Brotherhood in her disgust of all things \"feminine\". The story is well written, with engaging, fun characters. Katsa is fun to read about. The plot may be a little predictable at times but it did throw me a curve ball toward the end. The romance is lovely between Katsa and Po. I take exception though, to the message that this book sends. It is the same message I am reading over and over again in current literature. From Bella Swan who looks down on girls who like shopping, to Xhex who must be wrestled into a dress and who sees all signs of emotion as feminine weakness and now Katsa who refuses to marry or have children and who despises dresses and long hair. Message to authors: It is not nice dresses and pretty hair and an ability to be weepy on occasion that is the cause for the many inequality issues that women face. Putting a woman in pants does not change how the world perceives her. It doesn't suddenly make her stronger and better than the woman in the dress who likes jewelery! Your character does not suddenly become the beacon of the feminist movement because she doesn't like dresses. So sick of reading about \"strong, independent female characters\" who don't like dresses and spend most of the novel putting down almost every other female character as weak and pathetic. ...more Graceling has a beautiful cover, great premise, and lots of hype, and would be a terrific novel if it weren\u2019t for the terrible writing and atrocious main character. What is with the awkward sentence structures and prose in this book? \"In these dungeons the darkess was complete, but Katsa had a map in her mind.\" It should be \"In these dungeons, the darkness was complete, but Katsa had a map in her mind.\" And look at the next sentence: \"One that had so far proven to be correct, as Oll's maps tende Graceling has a beautiful cover, great premise, and lots of hype, and would be a terrific novel if it weren\u2019t for the terrible writing and atrocious main character. What is with the awkward sentence structures and prose in this book? \"In these dungeons the darkess was complete, but Katsa had a map in her mind.\" It should be \"In these dungeons, the darkness was complete, but Katsa had a map in her mind.\" And look at the next sentence: \"One that had so far proven to be correct, as Oll's maps tended to do.\" What? That made absolutely no sense. Instead: \"One that had so far proven to be correct, as Oll's maps tended to be.\" Wouldn't that be better? Then later on... \"Turning when it was time to turn...\" What? Isn't that redundant? And: \"She began to hear voices as she entered a corridor where the darkness flickered orange with the light of a torch set in the wall.\" Dude, darkness does not flicker orange, if it did then that would not make it dark. And it's not with the light of a torch, but light from a torch. That whole sentence is just full of awkward phrasing and clunky description. And the next: \"Katsa crept toward the light and the sound of laughter.\" How can she creep toward laughter when it wasn't even introduced earlier? It just does not get any better. And later on, she pulls her hood down over her eyes. What the hell. How do you expect to fight if you can't see where the heck you're going or what you're doing. It's not a surprise she trips over the four guards because OBVIOUSLY, you can't see anything! Why does she need to pull her hood down to hide her eyes when the guard she fights later ALREADY KNOWS WHAT SHE IS? Okay, that's it. I'm done. But the biggest offense of the book was the main character. Katsa is the most annoying, aggravating, self-centered, abusive, and violent character I\u2019ve ever had the misfortune to read from the eyes from. I thought Bella was tops (in annoying meter ranking), but Katsa wins the prize. During the book there were many instances where I wished I could rip her hair out and run her through with her own sword. She is the biggest Mary Sue I\u2019ve ever seen published. It wasn\u2019t so bad that she was Graced with some special ability but hers was off the wall unbelievable that I couldn\u2019t give her any sort of realistic credibility at all. Not only can she kill anyone with her bare hands, she\u2019s faster than anyone, builds fire better than anyone, hunts better than anyone, shoots and fires arrows better than anyone, yet she doesn\u2019t suffer from the freezing cold as the rest of her comrades - it just slows her down when other normal people would be down on the ground dying from hypothermia. She doesn\u2019t even tire like the rest of them because she just has unending bundles of stamina. So much so that she can go for days without sleeping even though they were in some pretty gruesome and difficult battles... And the list goes on. I mean what can Ms. Perfect not do? And don't give me that crap about how it's logical because of her special grace. There's a special balance between believable and ridiculous, and I'm sorry, but this is way over into the ridiculous area. But that wasn\u2019t the worst of it. Katsa\u2019s most unredeemable factor was her attitude. No one can tell her to do anything she doesn\u2019t want to do even if it\u2019s for the wiser. And if she doesn\u2019t like what she hears, her first reaction is anger, and then she throws a tantrum until she gets her way. But yet, every situation she finds unappealing to her, the first though that comes to mind is violence. I clearly remember a scene where Po told her his opinion which wasn\u2019t demeaning, cruel, or hurtful at all, and you know what she does? Hits him so hard he falls off his chair and has a wicked bruise. W-T-F. And not only that, her characterization is inconsistent. She\u2019s supposed to be this bad ass chick who takes no crap from anyone and doesn't need a man in her life to define her but as soon as Po enters and tells her he\u2019s going to leave she cries tears because she \u201cdoesn\u2019t know why\u201d? What the hell kind of crap is this? And what is her utter revulsion to marriage? I mean, I don\u2019t want to get married as well but Katsa\u2019s reasoning behind this is not concrete or sufficient enough to support her viewpoint that she vehemently defends many times throughout the book. I was absolutely disgusted, disgusted , by the way she treated her horses. She treats them as a way to serve her own self-satisfying needs without care. The first instance that stuck me was when Po and Katsa were riding off somewhere and she slammed her horse against Po's because she wanted to get his attention. W-T-F! Not only is that dangerous to the rider because they could fall off, but it's dangerous to the horse! Slamming into another horse while you're riding is NOT something you do. The horse could have fallen because the impact threw him off balance, and you're obviously not going to walk away from that injury free, or it could have tripped and then fallen. Not to mention she ALWAYS pushes her horses to ride fast because she has no patience and wants to get there faster, and if someone tells her they needed to rest the horses or they'll break them, she just throws hissy fits about how they have to hurry and they're just slowing her down. Horses are not machines, good god! They're living, breathing animals that need care just like we do! The next one was near the end of the book where she pushed everyone so hard, and rode for hours at a blistering gallop just so they could reach their destination faster. And then I clearly remember someone, Skye, I believe it was telling her that she lamed a horse. And you know what Katsa\u2019s response to this was? \u201cOh, he\u2019s not lame! He\u2019s perfectly fine\u201d and then throws a fit about how he\u2019s slowing them down and they need to get up and ride him harder so they can get to their destination faster. OMFG! I almost threw the book across the room in rage. The place names were very uncreative. You might think they\u2019re clever but they were shallow attempts at trying to make them seem more \u201cfantasy\u201d epic-like. They were just barely concealed renamings of East, West, South, North, and Middle. And I didn\u2019t even get started on the writing. It was super choppy, suffered from an annoying excess of repetitive phrasing, and without a lot of \u201cshowing\u201d. The structure was all the same. Katsa went and did this, did that, felt this, and so on and so forth. Another problem was the insane amounts of info-dumping in the beginning. After the third page, I just couldn\u2019t give a rip about the places\u2019 history, what it looked like, who was who\u2019s father. I can see why a lot of people love this book. There\u2019s romance, a super strong female character that kicks butt, and the tried and true quest/adventure formula of a fantasy novel. But it\u2019s just not for me. I absolutely hate not finishing a series so I\u2019ll probably read the next one, but ugh, not looking forward to it. My opinion? Avoid this book like the plague. I may probably be stoned to death for this review because every where I go it seems to be so well loved and praised with glowing reviews. ...more it is so hard to write reviews for books i actually like. no, love . talking about this book is like trying to describe to someone a relationship from long ago that was bittersweet and is now over, but i have never had a relationship that involved so many horses and swordplay, not even metaphorically. and fewer people care about my love life than about this book. (i see you ariel - you are glowering at me with tiny slitted eyes) but this book is like a wonderfully sweet relationship. at the beginni it is so hard to write reviews for books i actually like. no, love . talking about this book is like trying to describe to someone a relationship from long ago that was bittersweet and is now over, but i have never had a relationship that involved so many horses and swordplay, not even metaphorically. and fewer people care about my love life than about this book. (i see you ariel - you are glowering at me with tiny slitted eyes) but this book is like a wonderfully sweet relationship. at the beginning, you can't even imagine how you ever got along without it.and your friends (ariel) try to talk you out of it \"oh, don't get with that guy, he gave me herpes\" or whatever... but at the beginning everything was shiny and magical and when things started to go a little bit awry, i wrote it off as a glitch - a bad day that didn't necessarily mean that we weren't super awesome soulmates. (because it's true - the \"girl time in the mountain\" sequence was the weakest, but i really thought the book rebounded to perfection afterward. we can forgive one drunken dalliance, can't we? one lapse in judgment?? what happens n graceling stays in graceling ? yes?) i just loved so much about this book - i never ever get invested in the love story side plots of these teen fiction books - i have yet to be on a \"team\". but this time, i fully believed in their attraction, and i really wanted these crazy kids to get together and kick ass together forever. their fighting scenes, when they were fighting each other, were hugely erotic,and for once the male lead seemed worthy in a way that others have not been. their shyness, their tenderness.... i found it very sweet. and if i was a crying type of girl, i would definitely have cried at this one. so i am seriously bummed that the sequel is about the early life and times of king lamewad and not about anyone i actually cared about. but i will probably read it anyway, completist that i am. and eventually, because i think i have largely abandoned this metaphor, and it is very important to follow through, even though there were bumps in the road and people got hurt and friends were less free with advice in the future, the experience was a generally positive one, and the memory lives on as an Important Time where everything seemed possible. even liking a book ariel said was bad... ...more Updated 04/01/14: I happen to like books which feature kick-ass feminist heroines and are light on the romance so I should like this book, right? Yeah, but I don't. First of all, Katsa acts like a petulant little girl throughout the entire book, not some strong feminist poster woman. Katsa shows very little, if any, personal growth over the course of this novel. Also, I felt like the author spent too much time trying to sell us on the following ideas: femininity is an idea forced upon women by t Updated 04/01/14: I happen to like books which feature kick-ass feminist heroines and are light on the romance so I should like this book, right? Yeah, but I don't. First of all, Katsa acts like a petulant little girl throughout the entire book, not some strong feminist poster woman. Katsa shows very little, if any, personal growth over the course of this novel. Also, I felt like the author spent too much time trying to sell us on the following ideas: femininity is an idea forced upon women by the patriarchy, men don't respect women, commitment ruins relationships, marriage is a tool of the devil, and so on. Look, I understand that some women feel that way, and I'm completely cool with it. I'd be lying if I claimed that I've never thought some of the same things during my lifetime. That said, I hate how the author seems to be shoving very specific views down my throat instead of telling me a story that challenges me to think for myself. This book is written in such a way that it makes me think Cashore, the author, is using her character, her story as a vehicle to voice her very strong opinions. Don't get me wrong, I don't necessarily have a problem with that sort of thing, it's just that this book is being touted as 'feminist' but I fail to see true feminism within the pages of this book. I mean, I guess you could consider it a version of feminism, but it's not very inclusionary. In fact, it's a very bigoted version of feminism. Other than Katsa every other woman in this book is portrayed as weak and dumb. So basically unless you're an angry, dress-hating, man-hating woman with an aversion to commitment there is something wrong with you. News Flash: femininity isn't anti-feminist. I'm sorry but it is possible for independent, intelligent and stable women to embrace femininity without losing credibility. And anyway, isn't that the point of the feminist movement? Gaining equality without having to act like 'one of the guys'? I mean, sure, you can reject femininity if you want, but don't go around assuming that those who are feminine are pathetic weakling losers who do nothing to help the cause. It just so turns out that line of thought is backward and does nothing to advance the cause. Also, Katsa's view of other women in the realm is quite condescending in that she never seems to consider how privileged she is compared to some of these other women. Katsa's lucky in that she has the ability to kill pretty much anyone she wants so it's not like she has to do a damn thing anyone tells her to do. Despite all the crap she supposedly has to put up with, Katsa has benefitted from an education and she's also afforded more freedoms than most women because someone else pays her bills. She doesn't have to milk the cows or churn butter or become a serving wench. She doesn't have to prostitute herself out in order to make ends meet. Girlfriend needs to shut the hell up about all that because it's not like she's doing anything other than making a-hole observations. Katsa's not doing anything to change the way all women in the realm are treated, which is fine, it's her life, whatever. She just needs to quit it with the judgmental attitude toward others who can't afford to live or think the way she does. I could have handled Katsa's aversion to having a relationship with Poe if she hadn't had any feelings for him, or if she knew she wasn't emotionally ready to make any sort of commitment. But no, Katsa's aversion to commitment was built up do be some great personal strength of hers. In the end it just felt like she ('she' being Katsa. Or Cashore. Kat-Shore ?) was trying to prove a point or something, like \"look at how independent I am. I'm not a barnacle. I don't need a man...except for when I needs teh sex. So Poe, my lover, sorry you lost your sight and all but I'll prolly be drunk-dialing you in the future, cause I am comfortable with my sexuality. kthanxbai.\" *sob* \"Walking away is waaaaay hard, which is why I am so strong.\" *sob* \"Grrrrrrrrrrrrrl Powerrrrrr!\" Yeah, because being in a loving, trusting, equal and committed relationship isn't a sign of strength. Strength can only be had by loners who don't like to commit because doing so will supposedly lower their self-worth ...ummm....I mean...\"independent\" people. Also, it has to be said: The love scene grosses me out as much or more than the sex scene(s) in Titanic and/or Avatar. Some people just don't know how to write a love scene. James Cameron and Kristin Cashore are among that group. One last thing: why is it that no one seems to have an issue with Katsa hitting Po, literally knocking him to the ground so hard that he bruises? All he did was voice his opinion, that's it. Had the tables been turned, had Po hit Katsa for voicing her opinion, you people would be unbelievably angry. I'm sure some of you would be burning Cashore in effigy. Let's do a little more of this whole turning tables thing. Pretend that Katsa is actually a male character and Po is female. Okay, how much do you love this new topsy-turvy version of Graceling? Not very much, you say? Yeah, I thought so. If you ask me Katsa is one of the least deserving protagonists. She's a violent, judgmental a-hole who shows little to no personal growth over the course of this entire book. I don't care if she had a difficult childhood, having a difficult childhood doesn't mean you have to go around inflicting the worst parts of yourself on others. Having a difficult childhood doesn't give you license to be an awful person. Two stars because the concept was cool. Too bad it was poorly executed. ...more What I think about when I hear the name... Po: - Po the Panda - Po from Telletubbies - A crazy guy (like Edgar Allen Poe) - Poo Katsa: - Ketchup - Mutant Katniss Ror: - Roar! I'm a T-Rex! Tealiff: - Tea Leaf Skye: - Skype - A modern name, which you will NOT find in a medieval place. King Randa: - Ranting + Panda. King Ranting Panda! Drowden: - Drowsy - Drowning Thigpen - Pig pen - Thinking pen Leck - Lick - Peck - Neck - Smack - Some other variation Lienid: - An insult. (\"Hey, you Lienid! \") By the way, Po's real name is Green What I think about when I hear the name... Po: - Po the Panda - Po from Telletubbies - A crazy guy (like Edgar Allen Poe) - Poo Katsa: - Ketchup - Mutant Katniss Ror: - Roar! I'm a T-Rex! Tealiff: - Tea Leaf Skye: - Skype - A modern name, which you will NOT find in a medieval place. King Randa: - Ranting + Panda. King Ranting Panda! Drowden: - Drowsy - Drowning Thigpen - Pig pen - Thinking pen Leck - Lick - Peck - Neck - Smack - Some other variation Lienid: - An insult. (\"Hey, you Lienid! \") By the way, Po's real name is Greening Grandemalion. Great, at least its not Yellowing Grandemalion or Purpling Grandemalion or something stupid like that. That would sound really weird, unlike Greening Grandemalion, which is a name someone would normally give to their child. Yeah... If you have any more suggestions about what the names from Graceling sound like, feel free to put it in the comments! Note: Next up is the review, which is very thorough about the issues of Graceling's worldbuilding. This is going to take a while, but stay with me. Thanks. Actual Rating: 2.5 stars When reviewers criticize Graceling , they often complain about the view on feminism. I think enough has been said about that, so for detailed reviews about that issue, I recommend Amanda's review and Tatiana's review. However, this isn't Graceling's only flaw. The other big problem is the black-and-white world-building. World of Graceling Graceling is set in a european-ish medieval land with horses, taverns, kings, castles, and anything else you would except to find in such a place. The land is divided into seven kingdoms: Lienid (the island kingdom), Monsea (a kingdom closed off by the mountains), Middluns (the middle kingdom), and Nander, Estill, Sunder, Wester, which surround Middluns on the North, East, South, and West side, respectively. (See what Cashore did there?) Another aspect is the Graced; some people are born with special abilities called \"Graces\" such as mind-reading, excellent swimming skills, killing, etc. There is great prejudice against the Graced (except in Lienid) and one can tell if another person is Graced if the person's eyes are mismatched colors. (Random comment: One of my friends has eyes like this. It's a condition called heterochromia iridum. But sadly, my friend has no superpowers. :( ) Anyways... I think we can all agree that European medieval worlds are definitely overdone; nearly every epic fantasy or high fantasy is set in one! However, authors can still make them fresh if they add complexity to them with new aspects or intriguing history. Examples of Fresh, Intriguing Worlds For example, in Cinda Williams Chima's Seven Realms , the generic fantasy world is made fresh by complex struggles between Gray Wolf Queens, Clan, and Wizards. There is a well-developed and unique culture in the world, stemming from the struggles between Clan and Wizards, and the history is complex and believable. Another example is The Well Between the Worlds . It is a retelling of the King Arthur tale, set in a medieval world, but adds the elements of the Wells, the sinking of Lyonnesse, and industrialization to make a breathtakingly fresh and original world. So, what's the matter with Graceling's world? Why Graceling's World-building Simply Isn't Good Enough First off, there are only a few fresh aspects of this world: 1.) The idea of the Graced 2.) Some cultural aspects of the Lienid (like the gold jewelry, Po's tattoos, and the ring/inheritance thing. ...and that's pretty much it. But there's got to be more! Anything! Tell me, is there... A religion? No. History? (Like references to why the kingdoms are how they are, etc?) Nope. Mythology/legends/stories about old heroes, Graced, etc.? No. Unique cultural aspects? None. Anything that separates the world of Graceling from other fantasies? I'm sorry, but there is, other than the Graced, nothing original here. Okay, okay, we get it! Nothing new here! But sometimes, generic fantasy worlds are complex. There are complex issues, complex characters, and complex motivations which make up for the lack of originality. In fact, a world lacking new ideas sometimes portrays old ideas in a new light! What about Graceling? Is there any complexity? Lack of complexity in Graceling Part One: The Inhabitants of the world EEEEEEVIL PEOPLE: - The villain, (view spoiler) [King Leck. (hide spoiler) ] Why is he evil? Because he is! What does he do? Torture animals! He even (view spoiler) [killed his own wife! (hide spoiler) ] He is so EEEEEVIL! - King Randa. Poor Katsa! Her EEEEEEVIL uncle is making her kill people! Does he feel the slightest guilt or remorse? No! Does he have a good reason for this? Yes, so he can be even more powerful! MWAHAHAHAHA! - Those other kings! (Except for King Ror, who is good.) They are always squabbling over borders and killing poor peasants and stuff. How horrible of them! They are so EEEEEVIL! And one of them even (view spoiler) [held a poor old guy prisoner, just so he could be rich! (hide spoiler) ] MEAN people - Basically, everyone non-Graced. They just don't understand what it's like! Now that I think about it, all of Katsa's friends are either Graced or have a family member who is Graced (or are Lienid). The only exception is Oll. - Giddon. He is so condescending! And he doesn't understand Katsa! And he's so stupid, he thinks he can protect her! Even when she can kick his ass! This portrayal bugs me, because it feels like a gimmick to show how good Katsa is, and how she deserves a good man in her life, and blah blah blah. GOOD PEOPLE - Katsa is forced to kill people by her uncle. But wait, she is really good! Don't believe me? She created an organization called The Council, which does nice stuff! She is so angelic! Admittedly, Cashore did give her a few personality flaws, but not enough. I mean, when you can kill and entire army without even a sword, wouldn't you be extremely selfish and extremely spoiled? I admit, I would be. - Po. He is SOOOO noble! He still loves Katsa even if (view spoiler) [she won't marry him. (hide spoiler) ] And his secret is OK. Yes, Katsa is mad, but he is SOOOOOOO nice she doesn't care. - Lienid people! They are so nice to the Graced! They respect them 'n stuff. - Everyone not in the MEAN or EEEEEVL section. They are brave, noble, etc. No one is ever a mixture of good and evil. Part Two: The World Itself The world of Graceling lacks nuance. When you look at the history of Europe, there are ancient alliances, complex relations, etc. between the countries. Not to mention, the citizens of each country see themselves in one way and see people from other countries in other way. There are stereotypes, symbols, legends, and histories that may or may not be real. (And not just in Europe, everywhere.) I was expecting well-developed relations between the kingdoms and between normal people and Graced people. I mean, Katsa and Po have to travel across many countries and I wanted to see them struggle against prejudices and stereotypes. However, they had had it extremely easy. Here is the extent to which all the relationships were developed: - Normal people hate the Graced! (For no apparent reason) All you see is a strong dislike, no complex feelings. (For example, being in awe of their powers, yet feeling jealous) - Kingdoms fight over borders. That is pretty much it. Their only dislike comes from border squabbles. And... that's about it. Anyways, reading Graceling was an underwhelming experience. I mean, the first time I read it, I was in middle school, and even then I was disappointed! Recommendations: Many people loved this book. You might too, if you: 1.) Love a good kick-ass heroine 2.) Are looking for a fun adventure 3.) Want lots of action in your fantasy 4.) Love reading about kind, noble men in love with misfit girls But you might not if you: 1.) Are looking for a deep exploration of feminist ideas 2.) Require complex, original world-building 3.) Need complex characters 4.) Want a complex plot Final Comment: Graceling isn't a bad book. For me it was 2.5 stars (2.5 = a little more enjoyable than \"meh\") There is some decent character development, some exciting action, and a somewhat original plot. Also, other than the overwrought feminism, Graceling doesn't have any big flaws that might insult the reader and completely ruin the reading experience. There was also some humor and some quotable moments, my favorite being, \u201cWhen a monster stopped behaving like a monster, did it stop being a monster? Did it become something else?\u201d during a moment of poignant character introspection. (Speaking of that, there were some great ideas concerning what it means to be a monster.) All of this made Graceling an OK book. However, Graceling feels like an edited draft - there are good ideas, good editing, but nothing is really fleshed out. Let's hope in future books, Cashore spends more time on her story. Alternatives: - For a complex fantasy, Seven Realms is an terrific four-book series. Book 1 ( The Demon King ) is mostly a set-up book, with fantastic world-building, but familiar (and somewhat cliche) characters. Book 2 ( The Exiled Queen ) is great; the characters deepen, and the plot thickens. Book 3 ( The Gray Wolf Throne ) is absolutely stunning; intricate plotlines come perfectly together, characterization is amazing, and the tension is almost unbearable. And Book 4 ( The Crimson Crown ) is the kind of book so jaw-droppingly amazing, you feel like crying just because the book ENDED. - For a (urban-ish) fantasy/Para-Normal Romance, (don't worry, there romance isn't annoying]) with a totally kick-ass heroine, original world-building, and gorgeous prose, check out Daughter of Smoke and Bone by Laini Taylor. - For a short, rich fantasy (that won the Mythopoeic Fantasy Award) with a strong heroine who is selfish (but gets better) and has a coming-of-age story, I recommend Franny Billingsley's The Folk Keeper . There is also an exciting mystery (with more than one twist), and just the tiniest dash of romance. Plus, as a bonus, the prose is lovely. - I've heard that the The Queen's Thief series by Megan Whalen Turner are fantastic, especially those after book 1 ( The Thief .) I admit, I have not read them yet, but book 1 won the Newberry Honor medal, and many \"picky\" reviewers say they are fantastic. - The Well Between the Worlds by Sam Llewelyn is also a terrific, original novel. Yes, it is a children's book (ages 10+) but so was His Dark Materials . And just like His Dark Materials , TWBTW is sophisticated, well-written, and a lot of fun. And isn't it said that a good children's book can be enjoyed by adults as well? Anyways, I hope this review helps anyone thinking about whether or not they should read Graceling. Random: Those of you not familiar with the Teletubbies theme song, this might seem weird. But I hope you can sympathize with my frustration with the Graceling names. So, here is a parody: (view spoiler) [ The Graceling/Teletubbies Parody *To the tune of the Teletubby theme song* Tinkywinky...Dipsey...Katsa...Po... Teletubbies... Graceling people... say... he... llo! (hide spoiler) ] ...more First thing I need to point out is that I consider myself a feminist, even as far as to take an active role is such matters. Previously, I have written articles on Feministing and I honestly think so many of these issues are still very important in today's world. However you look at it, the battle for equality has not been won and has, in fact, become rather dormant. On that note, I love reading fiction by feminist writers, Atwood never fails to deliver and The Handmaid's Tale is one of my favou First thing I need to point out is that I consider myself a feminist, even as far as to take an active role is such matters. Previously, I have written articles on Feministing and I honestly think so many of these issues are still very important in today's world. However you look at it, the battle for equality has not been won and has, in fact, become rather dormant. On that note, I love reading fiction by feminist writers, Atwood never fails to deliver and The Handmaid's Tale is one of my favourite books of all time. Similarly with Virginia Woolf's A Room of One's Own , except Woolf's writing can make you want to slit your wrists at times. The point of me saying this is that when I heard Graceling called 'feminist propaganda', rather than being repelled, I was intrigued. I love modern stories with strong heroines who can stand up for themselves and don't need to wait for prince charming to swoop in and save them. Katsa fit this in many ways, true, but I have so many issues with the feminist ideals in this novel that I don't know where to begin. I am constantly faced with the irritating irony of radical feminists. The irony being that their favourite passtime is telling women what to do. Real feminism (as in the one that actually cares about women) is about choice, not about having to follow strict guidelines in order to banish the image of feminity. It's people like Kristin Cashore who make the term 'feminism' seem like a dirty word. Being strong and capable of making your own decisions is one thing... but the extremes of having to prove that you don't care about your looks or refusing to wear a dress is ridiculous. I wear dresses, I wear make-up, I like to make the effort to look nice... but in Cashore's world that means I'm a weak, pathetic wannabe-housewife. For me, the main mistake that Cashore makes is to assume that anything 'girly' is bad. It's an ongoing debate about women and feminism. For example, take the stereotype that women are more emotional and are therefore more weak than men. The argument is: Is this wrong and women are not more emotional? Or does what's wrong lie in the idea that emotions are a weakness because they are a feminine trait? Radical feminism continues to try and spit on traditional aspects of what it means to be feminine. Of course, it is arguable that the idea of 'feminine' is created through socialisation (e.g. dressing babies in either pink or blue depending on gender), but it has long been my opinion that if you take the colour pink (a worldwide symbol of the female gender) and make it into something that should be disgusting, then that's about as anti-woman as you can get. Margaret Atwood understood the dangers of radicalism and wrote the novel to go with it. In the same way that extreme socialism becomes the mirror of totalitarianism, radical feminism begins to mirror sexism. And that's why I had issues with a great deal of Graceling . But... what I did like was the love story between Katsa and Po, once Katsa got over the idea that he would somehow take possession of her after sex. Po was a sweetheart and an all-round likeable character. And, don't get me wrong, I never really disliked Katsa because the fact that she refuses to wear a dress and doesn't want children is entirely her choice and that's what's important. I liked her strength and at many times I felt her frustration... particularly with regards to the girls throughout the kingdoms who were never taught to protect themselves because their fathers and brothers were expected to do it. I completely agree with the idea that the girls should have been taught self-defence and self-sufficiency. The whole backdrop of magical kingdoms and whatnot was alright. It fit nicely around the main characters but I found the love story to hold most of my attention and that's why I've decided that I don't want to read Fire . The reviews of it tell me that romance comes far behind the whole fantasy aspect and I still have Tolkien nightmares. Yeah so, not a bad story but so many things disagreed with what I stand for. ...more Update 1/24/2012. I probably should already stop being surprised by the fact that every time I reread a book, I come up with something new to say (or feel) about it. Looks like my previous reading of Graceling caused a lengthy rant. Yeah, no such strong feelings this time. This time, I was able to appreciate the writing more. It's lovely. I really love how it flows, how the sentences connect. This book stands the test of time. And it's great that it stirs so much discussion and, often, outrage. Update 1/24/2012. I probably should already stop being surprised by the fact that every time I reread a book, I come up with something new to say (or feel) about it. Looks like my previous reading of Graceling caused a lengthy rant. Yeah, no such strong feelings this time. This time, I was able to appreciate the writing more. It's lovely. I really love how it flows, how the sentences connect. This book stands the test of time. And it's great that it stirs so much discussion and, often, outrage. But, but, but. On a personal level, I still disagree with some of Katsa's views. There is a paragraph in the middle of the novel that is especially jarring to my sensibilities. If she took Po as her husband, she would be making promises about a future she couldn't yet see. For once she became his wife, she would be his forever. And, no matter how much freedom Po gave her, she would always know that it was a gift. Her freedom would be not be her own; it would be Po's to give or to withhold. That he never would withhold it made no difference. If it did not come from her, it was not really hers. The way I see it, there is a fundamental flaw in Katsa's logic. This notion that marriage takes one's freedom, that once you unite with someone, your spouse controls you. This is not what I believe in. I am leaving my previous review of the book too. At the moment, I don't feel as strongly about the issues I was so eager to target back then. But who knows what I will feel in a few years? Previously This is my second reading of \"Graceling\" and I found myself enjoying it probably even more than when I read it the first time. I am once again convinced that Cashore is a very talented writer with a great future ahead of her. \"Graceling\" is Cashore's first novel and what a great debut it is! Now, having read her second book \"Fire,\" I know that she is developing as a writer in many ways. This particular book is very imaginative, the idea of Graces is original (at least to me) and intriguing - I especially enjoy the fact that the Graces are never what they appear to be at first. They are complex and ever evolving. I also appreciate Cashore's writing style - it is simple, concise, but yet very descriptive and emotional. What greatly frustrates me about Cashore's writing, and the main reason I find it impossible for myself to give her books 5 stars, is ultimate weakness of her heroines (both Katsa and Fire) and their strange and obsessive attitudes toward marriage and children. (view spoiler) [Katsa is supposedly an independent woman who wants nobody to take care of her. I understand this desire for independence very well. For the longest time I myself refused idea of marriage and I don't have kids, but even I find Katsa's unyielding desire to never marry or to commit strange, considering her journey in this novel. The saddest thing about this book is definitely the epilogue. It is so unsatisfying to me that Katsa, even after all her adventures and all the proof of Po's love and devotion to her, still chooses to do \"as she pleases\" - to go about her business leaving Po behind to be her occasional lover, to make sure she does not \"stop him from loving anyone else.\" I can't stop myself from asking - is this really love? to go as you please and leave the man you love to look for someone else to love? is this really love to make your own choices without factoring in your partner and your partner's wishes into your plans for the future? is this love when you decide what will happen in your life and your partner settles for anything you can give him, no matter how little it is? My answer is \"no.\" I am not propagating marriage here in any way, but I do feel that Katsa at the least is insecure and doesn't trust Po's love for her and at the most is selfish in her petulant decision to stay her own woman by refusing any claim Po can possible have on her (be that a wife or a life partner). I fail to understand why Katsa thinks that marrying Po or committing herself to him fully would ever put constraints on her independence? Does she know him at all? If she trusts Po so little, why is she with him? If all she wants is sex, can't she find a man who is as afraid of commitment as she is? Why hurt Po so? And how long such relationship can last while Katsa is being her own woman and encouraging Po to go around looking for someone else to love? In the end, I just feel that Cashore here lost an opportunity to show Katsa's emotional growth. I don't mean that marriage to Po would have proven her to be a better person, but the ability to fully commit and to surrender to and to trust her partner, certainly would. In my eyes, Katsa starts her journey being scared of trusting people and fearful of commitment, and ends it without changing in any significant way. It makes me sad for her, because in real life people stuck on their trust issues, people who do not grow and change and learn to trust, fail their relationships over and over again. Cashore tries to portray Katsa's decision as a triumph of her independence, but for me it is merely an indication of a victory of Katsa's fears over her life experiences. And here is the last argument I am going to make against the message of this book. Imagine if it were Po who made Katsa's decisions - Po who says he will never marry Katsa, Po who will never agree to give her children, Po who will ride around going about his business and occasionally meeting Katsa for hook-ups. What would we call such a man? A commitment-phobic pig? And yet, we call Katsa a feminist and a strong woman. There is a disconnect here somewhere, don't you think? Katsa and Po will appear in Cashore's next book \"Bitterblue\" and I am very curious to see where she is planning to take their relationship. I wish them happiness, but with current attitude of Katsa's I simply don't see it happening. (hide spoiler) ] I understand that this rant might seem like a petty nitpicking, but I guess I appreciate Cashore's writing too much to leave my personal feelings about this book unexpressed. Reading challenge: #8 ...more [This is a review of an advance copy.:] While Cashore shows herself to be a promising writer in many respects, this book could have used a better editing job, especially with the pacing, the climax and the d\u00e9nouement. Other points: 1. The dialogue she put in the ten-year-old princess's mouth was not believable in the slightest; maybe Cashore should spend some time around pre-adolescent girls to get an idea of what they really talk like. 2. The psychology of several of the characters (including Kats [This is a review of an advance copy.:] While Cashore shows herself to be a promising writer in many respects, this book could have used a better editing job, especially with the pacing, the climax and the d\u00e9nouement. Other points: 1. The dialogue she put in the ten-year-old princess's mouth was not believable in the slightest; maybe Cashore should spend some time around pre-adolescent girls to get an idea of what they really talk like. 2. The psychology of several of the characters (including Katsa, the protagonist) is described rather than motivated, which made it hard for me to follow/believe certain pivotal points in the plot. 3. The villain only appears twice, each time extremely briefly, and is never fully sketched. 4. Cashore is weak in terms of description in general. Several scenes--including the climax!--are very low on descriptive language, which had a very distancing effect. The idea of \"superheroes\" in a semi-medieval setting is interesting, but it could have been handled better than it was here. ...more Loved it. Except for the raging feminist agenda. NOTE: Since these two brief, flippant sentences have gotten so many trolls over the years, I'll just add that I support the book's feminist ideals 100%. What I do not like is the way we're hammered over the head with the message. (The \"raging\" part, if you will.) It's inelegant, tiresome soapboxing that managed to annoy someone who actually agrees with the principles, so I don't know how it's going to persuade anyone who does not. Katsa's views als Loved it. Except for the raging feminist agenda. NOTE: Since these two brief, flippant sentences have gotten so many trolls over the years, I'll just add that I support the book's feminist ideals 100%. What I do not like is the way we're hammered over the head with the message. (The \"raging\" part, if you will.) It's inelegant, tiresome soapboxing that managed to annoy someone who actually agrees with the principles, so I don't know how it's going to persuade anyone who does not. Katsa's views also express the kind of feminism that seem to be extremely critical of other women's choices, which I found off-putting. There's a lengthy discussion below where I go into my feelings further with people who are discussing in a reasonable manner, although I certainly don't need to justify my opinions to those who are only interested in telling people off on the internet. Nice job on not bothering to do 2 seconds' more research, but hey. Self-righteous outrage is so much easier. But you know, people who don't agree with the book's feminine philosophy actually do have a right to that opinion, too. Why is it so goddamned difficult to respect that? That doesn't seem to be in the spirit of independent thinking and free will that feminism is purportedly all about. I've come to realize that I probably shouldn't have used the word \"agenda,\" however. As someone who believes that women are capable of carving out whatever life they want (though, I might add, Katsa is not nearly so tolerant of other women's choices) and not being as aware of how politically charged that word has become in denigrating causes/beliefs, I didn't read the same kinds of negative connotations into it that clearly others have. An unfortunate choice in words that I've come to regret. ...more Gah sooo good! Okay, I read some of the other reviews and now I feel the need to defend this book. Basically, I think it's completely hilarious how many people are shocked and appalled that 1) there is sex in this book, and 2) the heroine does not desire to get married or have children. Guess what? Young adults *do* have sex. And the idea that it's not love if you don't want to marry them, or that you shouldn't have sex until you're married is why all the poor children in your congregation are ma Gah sooo good! Okay, I read some of the other reviews and now I feel the need to defend this book. Basically, I think it's completely hilarious how many people are shocked and appalled that 1) there is sex in this book, and 2) the heroine does not desire to get married or have children. Guess what? Young adults *do* have sex. And the idea that it's not love if you don't want to marry them, or that you shouldn't have sex until you're married is why all the poor children in your congregation are marrying the first person they have the hots for and getting divorces at 24 with 3 kids. Also, the fact that the heroine doesn't want to get married or have kids is shocking to you because EVERY OTHER WOMAN OR GIRL IN EVERY BOOK YOU'VE READ THIS YEAR is aiming for that brass ring of Mrs.-dom and 2.5 mini-Hims. Why should you be so concerned that this one book is going to crumble the foundation stones of your Evangelical God Mall? Instead of your pearl-clutching, maybe take a moment to think: wait, is it possible to have ovaries but not idealize wedded bliss? Even if your parents died young, your only parental figure uses you as a weapon, and you're basically incapable of forming bonds with people because everyone's terrified of you and always has been and as a result you're emotionally stunted? No, must just be some ranty feminist ( oooooh ) agenda! Blergh. Go back to your Stephenie Meyer. Now I feel better. ...more 2.5 stars. Soooo I thought this was some kind of Hunger Games-type dystopian story about a girl who could kill with her touch for some reason and put off reading it because I wasn't huge on Shatter Me. BUT then this turned out to be full of castles and princes and everything I love so that was a fun surprise! I'm extremely neutral about this book, though. There were a few elements I liked (mostly the castles and princes), but the worldbuilding was weak and the writing itself was really dull. I di 2.5 stars. Soooo I thought this was some kind of Hunger Games-type dystopian story about a girl who could kill with her touch for some reason and put off reading it because I wasn't huge on Shatter Me. BUT then this turned out to be full of castles and princes and everything I love so that was a fun surprise! I'm extremely neutral about this book, though. There were a few elements I liked (mostly the castles and princes), but the worldbuilding was weak and the writing itself was really dull. I didn't particularly connect with anything throughout the slow plot, honestly. It wasn't bad ... it just kind of skimmed the surface of what it could've been. Some better worldbuilding or character development would've helped a lot. I think I've just read so many other books about girl assassins/killers at this point that I needed a unique element or stronger story. SOMETHING. I thought the Graceling aspect was kind of underused or boring (aside from how Katsa's eyes were two different colors). I wasn't that into the romance, either. The fact that his name was Po didn't help much... I really wasn't big on Katsa, though. Her character was equally hard to pin down, yet annoying. Like there's a difference between being tough/badass and being straight up rude and she kind of missed the mark on that one. Katsa's personality is mostly self-righteous aggression . I mean, SHE HITS PO -- how is any of that fine? And I wouldn't necessarily herald this book as being feminist like I've heard because Katsa doesn't really support or attempt to understand other women's choices as well as she could. The underlying message in some parts is pretty black/white... like women either have power or give it up to a guy. There isn't a range of ways for women to be strong. (And it's fine that she doesn't want to marry, but if her independent identity actually hinges on not needing a guy, then it still revolves around men ... just the lack thereof). Ugh. Most of the story was just felt like a weird and poorly executed attempt to create a \"strong\" female MC. So yeah, this book brought absolutely nothing new to the table and was just very, very average and anticlimactic. The best I can give it is a very neutral shrug... I didn't actively dislike it, but I'm not sure I'll check out the sequels. ...more This was pretty much one of the most irritating books of all time - and consistent with my idea of YA fantasy. But I fought my way through it because, goshdarnit, I picked it up at the library, dragged it home with a load of other books and groceries, and renewed it the max number of times - I was gonna finish it. You know the kickbutt heroine who is just totally kickbutt and doesn't need no one, no way, no how, and yet loves and feels and hurts deeply and yet keeps everyone away because she is b This was pretty much one of the most irritating books of all time - and consistent with my idea of YA fantasy. But I fought my way through it because, goshdarnit, I picked it up at the library, dragged it home with a load of other books and groceries, and renewed it the max number of times - I was gonna finish it. You know the kickbutt heroine who is just totally kickbutt and doesn't need no one, no way, no how, and yet loves and feels and hurts deeply and yet keeps everyone away because she is baaaaaad? Yeah, that one. I hate her. You know the quiet, loving hero who worships the ground his heroine walks on and yet is reasonably kickbutt himself, while at the same time deferring to the heroine's wishes and not fulfilling any of his own? I hate him, too. Katsa was a child, and I hated that she and Po meandered their way into a sexual relationship because of 'twu wuv' and the fact that she would be tied down if she married. By golly, dontcha know you don't have to be married to have sex and lead a wonderful, fulfilling life? Now imagine the situation reversed - if Po had fallen in 'twu wuv' with Katsa, but would never contemplate marriage because he thought it would tie him down and keep him from true freedom... Wow, that would be really, really sexist. And lame. But if a woman does it to the man whom she loves (and who loves her in return), it's a point for us rockin' feminists. Please. Please. For the love of good fantasy fiction, let's write and read about realistic characters and remember that what's good for the goose is good for the gander. I would have hated it if Po had refused to marry Katsa for the reasons stated above, but neither do I enjoy it when the poor guy's just supposed to be some worthless blob waiting for her to come home from her adventures, beat him at fights, and then run off into the wild blue yonder again. Isn't marriage/love supposed to be a give-and-take between equals? If Katsa had scorned marriage in the beginning and rethought her view after learning that Po's love would never keep her bound, there would have been something to say in defense of this novel. I suppose the idea of the Grace and the Kingdoms, etc. was good, but the childish, flat chracters and overdone prose made it a difficult, boring read that could have been halved and still felt too long. And best wishes to the youth who read this and decide that sex isn't a big deal, that it can happen as long as you KNOW you're in love (because, obviously, it's easy to know when you're that age), and that 'marriage' is a synonym for 'slavery'. ...more Let's get this done. My dinner is getting cold, and I have dreams to crush. Ready? Andiamo! BOOM #1: Katsa While I love the author's intent for empowerment with Katsa, she was a bit too much of a special snowflake for me. I will forever fist-pump to her unstoppable strength as a warrior, a woman and a person, but at the end of the day she was highly unrealistic and too much of a caricature for me. She's kind of a double edged-sword in terms of her feminist appeal, too. Instead of helping the women Let's get this done. My dinner is getting cold, and I have dreams to crush. Ready? Andiamo! BOOM #1: Katsa While I love the author's intent for empowerment with Katsa, she was a bit too much of a special snowflake for me. I will forever fist-pump to her unstoppable strength as a warrior, a woman and a person, but at the end of the day she was highly unrealistic and too much of a caricature for me. She's kind of a double edged-sword in terms of her feminist appeal, too. Instead of helping the women in the rest of the land to defend themselves and educating them on how to be stronger and stand up for themselves, which she has the means and freedom to do (as a privileged person; Katsa has grown up surrounded by wealth and resources. She is oppressed as a woman, treated terribly, but institutional class privilege still exists and it still works in her favour compared to all the poor women living in squalor and within unwanted marriages across the land) she simply looked down on them because they were not as physically strong as she. Feminism is about appreciating, supporting and celebrating women of all tastes, backgrounds, creeds and lifestyles, and it's sad that this book did not hit the mark in this area. Check your privilege, know your capabilities, lend a hand. (And support your sisters, not just your cis-ters.) Having said that, it was refreshing to experience a female character who leaps off the page, doesn't take a single smidge of shit, and who doesn't fuck around with a silly \"what about teh menz\" mantra. I regret my response a couple of years ago when I read this and was still dealing with some internalized misogyny, using ridiculous terms like \"sexism against men\" and \"feminazi\". This book is the result of righteous female anger against a genre and a world that treats women like inhuman shit. This book is important, despite some of its messages missing the mark, and when I read it now through twenty-year-old eyes, more seasoned eyes, eyes that have done their reading and lived some experiences and become righteous in their own female anger, it is cast in a new light. I also see and very much like the great focus on female relationships in this book - we go through a thick wedge of pages in which it is just Katsa and Bitterblue, no knights in shining armour in sight. No men, just women being comrades in arms. Alas, Bitterblue is a princess, privileged in status, and again I find myself wishing Katsa's power had reached out and perhaps changed the lives of others less fortunate for the better. She could have taught the girls who cut her hair, who so relied on the men in their lives to protect them, how to hold a knife or be self-sufficient but she simply moved on and forgot about them. (I've learned since that Katsa opens a school for teaching girls how to fight, but I have not read any other books in this series. I can only review what I have read.) On a high note, Cashore does earn significant Brownie points for making Katsa unapologetically sexual, and for adding a nice little birth control accent to round off the whole sex thing on a safe note. It's a shitty trope in YA that \"if you have sex you will get pregnant and die\". In the background, Katsa is laughing. BOOM #2: Plot The plot of this book was strong, though a lot of time was spend riding around on horses to nowhere. It would have been nice to always know what was going on, but I suppose we can't have everything. BOOM #3: Pacing The pacing was slow. A hundred pages could have been shaved off and we wouldn't be any the wiser. However, the strong opening chapters and the time Katsa spent in the court moved swiftly and was a fair hook. BOOM #4: Love interest I say love interest because Po was nothing more than that. It was wonderful to read a book in which the main male character did not upstage the heroine and did not take it upon himself to defend her ovaries, because Po always respected Katsa'a strength of body and character. I do wish, however, that Po would have been less of a two-dimensional doormat. The way he simply shrugged off being hit so hard he fell out of his chair and bled was alarming. There is never any excuse for hitting one's partner, regardless of the victim's gender, age, size, sexuality, etcetera. Hitting your partner doesn't make you strong or passionate, it makes you an asshole. And you lose even more points if you hit them on reflex. Hitting when you know what you're doing is one thing but when you lash out as a natural reaction to upsetting news then you need even more therapy than you did when you knew what you were doing. Just don't fucking hit the people you love. Don't hit anyone. Okay? BOOM #5: Writing The writing was solid, enjoyable, if sometimes a little muddled. I occasionally found myself re-reading sentences multiple times because they didn't make sense. Also, the overuse of commas was irritating. But the dialogue was good, clearly well thought-out, and for a high fantasy setting the tense and person was well-chosen. BOOM #6: Don't hurt your animals Seriously. The amount of animal mistreatment in this book was unsettling. Katsa lames a horse because she rides it over unsuitable terrain, and then furiously demands they kick it on regardless. Note: horses can literally die from issues with their feet and legs. However, it should bear in one's mind that this book is written in an old-timey fantasy setting where people didn't really give a shit about the needs of horses or the injustice of foie gras. BOOM #7: Conclusion There's a lot to love here, but I did have some issues, mostly with the slow pacing, meandering plot and Katsa being a little too much of a perfect petunia and thus sort of unrelatable. That said, there's action and some lovely imagery and empowerment - so much empowerment. This book will make you grow; it did me. For that, Kristen Cashore, you've impressed me. ...more I really enjoyed the history and mainly the amazing kingdom that the writer has created . I know that many will believe it is something unfair my punctuation and I respect that because this series has a lot of fans, but I have not felt comfortable with the idea of putting more because I liked but I haven't loved as I thought it would \u201cI'm not going to wear a red dress,\" she said. \"It would look stunning, My Lady,\" she called. She spoke to the bubbles gathered on the surface of the water. \"If ther I really enjoyed the history and mainly the amazing kingdom that the writer has created . I know that many will believe it is something unfair my punctuation and I respect that because this series has a lot of fans, but I have not felt comfortable with the idea of putting more because I liked but I haven't loved as I thought it would \u201cI'm not going to wear a red dress,\" she said. \"It would look stunning, My Lady,\" she called. She spoke to the bubbles gathered on the surface of the water. \"If there's anyone I wish to stun at dinner, I'll hit him in the face.\u201d My main problem been that I have not been able to connect with the main character , at first I did I felt I understood his actions and their way of thinking and even their crazy decisions by the fact that his childhood had been hard and being a girl among a lot of male characters then it should be something rude, but then something changed in my outlook and her behavior began to seem annoyed to me and insolent, I found myself thinking \"why she does this?\" or \"why did she say that?\" and then I couldn't connect with her again despite that I really tried. I mean, I enjoyed it a lot, and I'm being honest, I loved the first half!, the beginning of the story and really has very nice catch phrases and the idea of different colored eyes to identify people who have \"the grace\" is my favorite thing, Po is a lovable character I love him a lot. And the plot and descripsion the world where the plot developed, I repeat again, has me amazed is fantastic, but anyway it was not enough. \u201cWhen a monster stopped behaving like a monster, did it stop being a monster? Did it become something else?\u201d Not that it detracts to the plot, it is that for me the main character is important and therefore my feelings for her. Another thing that left me unhappy is the romance in the story, I do not like at all, and I am a person of romances, that is, for me is escensial in the plot, but in this book I have found it unconvincing and somewhat forced, I fails to connect with it at all, so I found myself very boring in the love moments, waiting for the action, which had never happened with me before. Certainly I want to highlight the creativity of the writer and I say to you that you never have to discard a book by their review although was not as good as in my case because we are all different and this is a great example of that. Read this one has action and a good plot. If you do tell me what you think! :) ...more Review Update: 9/9/11 I am going to do something I don't do when it comes to reviewing/rating books. I have thought about this book a lot, and the fact that I really disagreed with the message about women, what empowers women, how they show that they are 'strong' and 'independent' women. I am going to downgrade my rating because I felt like the message in this book was too blatant and leading. It feels manipulative to me, and that's an issue I can't get past. Ultimately an author has a choice of Review Update: 9/9/11 I am going to do something I don't do when it comes to reviewing/rating books. I have thought about this book a lot, and the fact that I really disagreed with the message about women, what empowers women, how they show that they are 'strong' and 'independent' women. I am going to downgrade my rating because I felt like the message in this book was too blatant and leading. It feels manipulative to me, and that's an issue I can't get past. Ultimately an author has a choice of what kind of story they choose to write. I don't have to agree with it. I would hope that they would just tell the story instead of preaching. In this case, there was a lot of not so subliminal preaching going on in this story, that on further analysis, I can't get past. Sadly, I liked the idea and some of the concepts. I liked that Katsa was imperfect. I really liked Po, but even he is a bit of a 'too good to be' true creation that makes the message come across better from the author. I mean, you need a good, kind, loving man who is very tolerant to allow himself to be treated the way Katsa does him. Womanly strength is not 'one' thing. Like the rainbow, a spectrum of colors composite womanly strength. A housewife with children is just as strong as a woman who never marries, takes lovers, and goes around fighting battles. And there is a somewhere in-between, to be sure. To assume that there should be one extreme or the other, or that either choice is wrong for every women is a fallacy. I don't want to get preachy here, so I'll stop right here with that train of thought. I think that as far as other aspects, my review stands. But as far as the message in this book, it impels me to go back on my original review. I'm downgrading this to three stars. I don't feel I should change the original review without rereading, so I add the update as a caveat. So, if you read my review, the math doesn't add up with the final rating. If I do reread this, I will alter the whole review. **************************************************************************************************** Simply put, I found this to be a fantastic book. I loved the world that Ms. Cashore built. The concept of the Graced individuals was fascinating. I liked the way the Graced stood out with their eyes that are different colors from each other, and their phenomenal abilities that varied between each Graced person. And the characters that inhabit this story...well they weren't ones you could easily forget about or dismiss. Let's start with Katsa. I felt for her. She was basically her uncle, King Randa's goon. He sent her to hurt people for his own selfish ends. Her Grace became something she hated about herself. It took Po's love and acceptance to get her to see that her Grace was a blessing, and to see it for what it was. Not the power to kill, but the power to make a difference. Katsa had some serious control issues. I totally empathized with her on that. Being under someone's thumb and control is an ugly, ugly thing. I could see why she wanted to be free to make her own decisions. So, that was something I respected about her, but it led to a big issue I had with this story, which I will go into shortly. That withstanding, even though I really disliked a decision she was set on, I loved her. I thought she was a great character. Her strength as a person was formidable. Her determination to protect others and to survive any obstacle humbled me. I admired her so much, it brought tears to my eyes. Po was fantastic. Sometimes I am somewhat skeptical about these wonderful men that women authors write. Do they write men that they feel that women will instinctively love, or are there men out there as wonderful as Po is? I hope I meet one. Haven't just yet (no offense to the great guys I know). Po got my attention, and kept it, from the first meeting, in which he ends up encountering Katsa, and being one of the few who are somewhat of a challenge to her as a fighter. Po has a gypsy sort of vibe that reminded me of another favorite, Cam Rohan, from romance novels by Lisa Kleypas. He has an ease in his skin which makes him very attractive. He's gorgeous and sensual (not too sensual for a young adult book---but it's there alright). He's a great fighter. He's intelligent, resourceful, supportive, and insightful. He has a sense of adventure and an air of mystique. He was a really good guy. I couldn't love him more. Yet Po hides a secret that actually makes him a great counterpart to Katsa, although she has to take time to accept that he can see and perceive her in ways that no one else can. He has to come to terms with his own Grace, and that journey will not be without anguish to him. I overuse the term soulmates in my reviews, probably because I'm the sappy romantic who believes in this concept. But Po is without a doubt the one soulmate for Katsa. That made me more able to accept an issue I had from the romantic angle. The secondary characters were very distinct and absorbing. Young Bitterblue is a character that really stood out. I loved her by the end of this book, and I look forward to reading her book when it comes out. The poor girl. What she suffered. It was completely harrowing! Then there's Prince Raffin. He was adorable. I hope we see him again and see him find his bride. Oh, the awful villain. I won't say who it is, but he was an abomination! He got exactly what he deserved! No question. The world itself: Ms. Cashore stuck to simplicity and it paid off. She writes a world that looked a lot like our own, but the people in it gave this book the fantasy feel. If you like survival books and journey/quest books, you'll love this. It made me want to bone up on my non-existent survival skills. I couldn't do it justice the way Katsa and Po do. I liked the idea of the Seven Kingdoms, and how they related to each other. Far and above, Po's people stood out, with their penchant for jewelry, their dark hair and gray eyes--their culture was nicely distinctive. They had a Roma (gypsy) vibe that I liked. The action and adventure were par excellence. I love both, and I heartily recommend this book, if you are of the same mind. If you love a heroine who can more than handle her own, and the combination of a tough heroine and hero fighting at each other's side, you will love this book. The fight scenes are thrilling and awesome. The violence is not so graphic that it's disturbing, but there is death and blood in this book. But, the value of life is very much made clear by the author. I think this book sends a good message to younger readers in how she handles some tough issues such as using power in a way that is helpful and not selfish and hurtful to others. Okay, now I'll talk about the romance: It was scintillating, completely appealing. Katsa and Po had great chemistry. You knew they were for each other and no one else. You could see why they loved each other. This book does have some love scenes, but they aren't descriptive enough to be unsuitable for young adult books, but they had enough steam to make this book sizzle in a way that would appeal to a fan of adult romances, at least in my opinion. A good steam factor is about chemistry, and it was there in spades here. Also, there was that vibe of a love that was too strong to resist. Let me get into my one and only issue with this story. Katsa did not want to fall in love. She didn't want to give her heart away. She did not want to be owned, and not really to belong to anyone. She vowed not to marry or have children. One one level I could completely understand that, but it also frustrated me. I think Po more than showed he was the kind of man who would never try to own or control her. I think he gave her more than 100% of himself, but I felt she didn't give herself fully in return. I think agreeing to marry him would have showed her trust and love for him in return. I felt she did love him and show it, but I also felt she was holding a large part of her essential self back. And thus, the true romantic in me was unsettled and dissatisfied with the resolution of this book. I hope and pray that eventually Katsa will marry Po. I think he deserves that show of trust from her. I can't get away from my feelings about love. I think if you love someone enough, you want to marry them, and there is no substitute. That's my personal belief. And, it made the way this book ended a big issue for me. So, on the romantic front, this was not a 5 star book. It's more like a four. As a fantasy and a book overall, there is no question that this book is a five star book. But, if you are reading this as a romance, it doesn't quite reach perfection, at least if you are of a similar mind to me. You might not be. You might be fine with this great couple existing forever in a relationship that is uncommitted to the rest of the world, and between them in the sense that Katsa feels she will always have the freedom to walk away from Po. Ugh, it makes my heart ache to think about it. So, this is the best review I can write. It's so hard to describe my feelings about this book, and I did the best I could. I don't think I can add much more to it. I highly recommend Graceling. It was a pleasure and a joy, and I want to read more by Ms. Cashore. ...more Hm. The hardest thing about this book is that it COULD HAVE BEEN SO GOOD. I started out loving everything about it and ready to recommend it to everyone. But then it started reading like a feminist/anti-marriage/anti-kids campaign platform (okay - that might be a little much, but you started to feel that the author had an agenda). It was just really disappointing, because I loved the characters so much. Oh well. Also - even though it's considered a YA novel, there is sex in it. Pretty disappoint Hm. The hardest thing about this book is that it COULD HAVE BEEN SO GOOD. I started out loving everything about it and ready to recommend it to everyone. But then it started reading like a feminist/anti-marriage/anti-kids campaign platform (okay - that might be a little much, but you started to feel that the author had an agenda). It was just really disappointing, because I loved the characters so much. Oh well. Also - even though it's considered a YA novel, there is sex in it. Pretty disappointing. ...more Excerpt: \u201cAnd now I\u2019m wondering,\u201d he said, \u201chow it is you don\u2019t realize your eyes ensnare me, just as mine do you. I can\u2019t explain it, Katsa, but you shouldn\u2019t let it embarrass you. For we\u2019re both overtaken by the same\u2014--foolishness.\u201d That\u2019s Katsa\u2019s eyes. Kidding. But that quite explain the eyes of a Graceling, just imagine it 10 times fantabuluos. A Graceling is a person with Graced. Being Graced is like having an exceptional talent. But it does not only refer to singing or dancing, it could be t Excerpt: \u201cAnd now I\u2019m wondering,\u201d he said, \u201chow it is you don\u2019t realize your eyes ensnare me, just as mine do you. I can\u2019t explain it, Katsa, but you shouldn\u2019t let it embarrass you. For we\u2019re both overtaken by the same\u2014--foolishness.\u201d That\u2019s Katsa\u2019s eyes. Kidding. But that quite explain the eyes of a Graceling, just imagine it 10 times fantabuluos. A Graceling is a person with Graced. Being Graced is like having an exceptional talent. But it does not only refer to singing or dancing, it could be that you are Graced with holding your breath for 30 mins without dying or killing like in the case of Katsa, the heroine of the story. You can also distinguish a Graced from an Ungraced by his or her eye color. If it\u2019s two different eye colors, then voila you\u2019ve spotted a Graceling. A Graceling if deemed worthy will serve under the king\u2019s order whether they like it or not. Katsa is feared for she is Graced with killing and is used as a striking hand to punish the people who defies the king. However, Katsa is not the monster the people think she is and despises doing the king\u2019s order. She even created the Council to help the oppressed and their latest mission was to save the father of the King of Lienid. But even as they completed the mission, they have still no clue as to who is the mastermind beyond the kidnapping, and as she continues to unravel the mystery, Katsa found herself in the middle of everything she had not foreseen. It is changing her and challenging every bit of her surviving skills. One thing I immediately noticed was the unique names. Katsa, Prince Greening Grandemalion, Grandfather Tealiff and Bitterblue . Is there a trend for names like this? Maybe I should change my name to Kiki or C2? What dya\u2019 think? Anyway, the story is strong, fresh and engaging. I actually finish the book in one-sitting. \u2018Twas that amazing! Katsa was described as a fighter who is unbeatable and unconquerable, she even have to control her strength on her sparring sessions. She\u2019s invincible and self-sufficient. But Cashore being cunning that she is, created someone, a one-eyed king, who can matched Katsa not by strength but by something more powerful and evil. The love story was just like wow. I find myself loving every character and investing on each of them. Prince Greening Grandemalion aka Po was just so charming and funny that even if he uses wildcat (blah) as a term of endearment, I immediately rooted for him. And Katsa is not your typical heroine. She\u2019s no damsel in distress. She can do her stuff, carry her own, and sacrifice even if it meant breaking her heart. I just love their banter and sweet moments. There\u2019s just this one chapter (Chapter 20) where my eyes were threatening to fall out of their sockets and I can feel my blood rushing into my brain. It\u2019s my least favorite chapter and I wish it to be non-existing but I realized that it was needed. It\u2019s an essential piece to what I guess Cashore is trying to build. She\u2019s attaching Katsa and Po and simultaneously engrossing the readers to their relationship, and if she also planned to have her readers heartbroken and feel wretched in the succeeding chapters, then she\u2019d definitely succeeded. She\u2019s a very wise lady, I say. The element of surprise was greatly executed too. I dunno if it was me being too engrossed that I did not saw it coming. I was completely blindsided and I applaud her for that. Reading this was like a breath of fresh air. The pacing\u2019s just right. The character building was great. Cashore is as of now enlisted as one of my favorite authors and knowing that this is her debut novel, I am looking forward for her books in the future. She made my first book this year very worth it! This is definitely a must-read people! ...more Yay!!! This was just what I wanted. This was like a cone of shaved ice on a hot day by the pool listening to a mix of one hit wonders. Yay!! I feel like I didn\u2019t realize it, but one of my goals for vacation was to stay up till three in the morning with a fun adventure, and this was just the thing. 3 a.m. read: check! There is such a deluge of young, energetic girl writers, writing women who struggle with their stoicism and strength and have supportive, emotional male counterparts, and I absolutel Yay!!! This was just what I wanted. This was like a cone of shaved ice on a hot day by the pool listening to a mix of one hit wonders. Yay!! I feel like I didn\u2019t realize it, but one of my goals for vacation was to stay up till three in the morning with a fun adventure, and this was just the thing. 3 a.m. read: check! There is such a deluge of young, energetic girl writers, writing women who struggle with their stoicism and strength and have supportive, emotional male counterparts, and I absolutely love it. It is like we hit this stride of girls saying, \u201cHey, sure, I could write a book and tell you how I see the world and what I want from it. Why not?!\u201d And then publishers are publishing them! Wahoo! And, I know you are as little shocked by this as I am, but it turns out that girls do not always see ourselves as emotionally irrational, sensitive weaklings and men as muscly douchebags. And I really like the simple, somewhat symbolic way it looks at the complexity of emotional control and physical violence. I could not be more pleased. Goodbye stupid, boring old propaganda, and hello new, fun counter-propaganda! Huh, now that I've read a couple of other reviews of this, I have to say that I'm surprised by people's criticisms. It seems like many people have taken issue with the fact that Katsa doesn't like dresses and see that as some kind of condemnation of girls who do like dresses. I have to disagree. I love seeing awesome girls like Buffy and Elle Woods, and the girls in Snooki's book, who love shopping and pink and are also smart and capable. But, I don't think it is condemning of girls to show a girl who does not love shopping. While I have to say that Katsa's take on marriage is almost word for word how I see marriage, I don't really feel like Katsa, or any female protagonist, needs to be the definitive image of what all women should be. Some women think marriage sounds awesome, and others don't, and I don't feel like Katsa being wary of marriage because of her resistance to control is a judgment on any of the women in this book or in real life who are in favor of marriage. It kind of weirds me out to see the big reaction to that. I think it weirds me out because I do not care for shopping and marriage sounds awful to me, but most of my friends love shopping and/or are married, and I don't like to think me having a different opinion somehow undermines them. Anyway, I love seeing stories where girls are fun and strong and love shopping and marriage, and stories where they don't, because girls are not all the same about those things. It kind of bums me out to see this book criticized for ideas I feel represent my thoughts and preferences. On the down side, this story is admittedly somewhat derivative, but not in the creepy way that Cassandra Clare is derivative, mostly in a fun way. There is a definite X-Men feel to me about the premise of the story, I kept accidentally reading the heroine\u2019s name as Katniss, the trip over the mountains seemed so Aliens , and the ending is Jane Eyre . But, what awesome stories to borrow from!! Such a great mix. Also, this book knocks the Bechdel test out of the park. Out of the park! Katsa\u2019s interactions with all of the women were so beautiful and humble and natural. I loved them. I had a little bit of Bechdel concern early on because of Helda, but ultimately I think she is a great character, too. It feels natural for me for Katsa to face a lot of pressure to get married and have babies, even from really wonderful friends, because let\u2019s face it, you do. And including the character of Helda gave Katsa such a graceful opportunity to define her own life instead of listening to even someone she loved. Yay!! When I was in seventh grade, I would read books with a couple of friends of mine and say, \u201cIt was sooooooo romaaaaaaantic!\u201d And then we would laugh for like fifteen minutes, the way you do in seventh grade. I can\u2019t really explain it now, but we thought it was hilarious to say that. Or, I did at least. Anyway, this book definitely would have made it on my soooooo romaaaaantic train, but it still presented a really healthy model, in my evaluation, of loyalty and love without control and ownership. Definite swoon. Plus, a guy with tattoos: how can I resist? Also, I loooooooved that Raffin was Katsa\u2019s sassy gay friend! Because girl needed one, and he was so great at it! And he totally was her sassy gay friend; don\u2019t tell me otherwise. But, what a subtle, wonderful way to show a loving, sweet gay couple without sort of exploiting them for PC points. I think, anyway. I mean, I know the book didn\u2019t dive fully into what it would mean for Raffin to have to get married, and it would have been great to be more explicit about it, but I still think it showed them really sweetly. While I have to say that I love Blood Red Road more than this, and I think this is somewhat comparable to that, I did still love this. I just think the writing in BRR is brilliant and Saba\u2019s voice is so unique. This was more straightforward, and probably an easier read for people who struggled with the dialect in BRR. But, mostly, YAY for all of the messages about women and girls defending ourselves and not bowing to control and emotional manipulation! So smart. I think this book could be to a seventh-grade girl audience what Girl With the Dragon Tattoo is to an adult male audience in terms of messages about confronting hatred of women. And I say again, YAAAAAY!!!! _________________________ I received a free copy of this book from the library. In return I promised to pay my late fees. ...more This was a very pleasant read. I love when a book has a strong female protagonist. The characters had depth and all left an unforgettable impressions in both my mind and heart. I've already move unto book two Fire which I there say is reading even better. Actual Ratings: 4.5 I LOVED this book; fast-paced, strong heroine, engaging love interest, character delivered through action. Loved Katsa's voice. Can't wait for the sequel. \u201cWhen a monster stopped behaving like a monster, did it stop being a monster? Did it become something else?\u201d High fantasy at its best! This book is to be admired. And I definitely agree with everyone who says that the book is truly amazing. There are a lot of elements that make this book extra-ordinary. Graceling is a story about the main character Lady Katsa of the Kingdom of Middlun. Graced with an unnatural gift that can easily kill anyone whenever she wants, she grew up under the influence o \u201cWhen a monster stopped behaving like a monster, did it stop being a monster? Did it become something else?\u201d High fantasy at its best! This book is to be admired. And I definitely agree with everyone who says that the book is truly amazing. There are a lot of elements that make this book extra-ordinary. Graceling is a story about the main character Lady Katsa of the Kingdom of Middlun. Graced with an unnatural gift that can easily kill anyone whenever she wants, she grew up under the influence of her uncle Randa , King of Middlun, who basically used her ability for his own interest. The book is set in a world where seven kingdoms exist-- including Middlun and the story starts off when one of the leaders (the Grandfather) of the Kingdom Lienid was kidnapped. The incidence resulted to Katsa and her companions' rescue involvement and investigation. She eventually met Prince Greening \"Po\" Grandemalion while rescuing the Grandfather and since then, they worked together to find the one responsible for the kidnapping. (Sorry for my lame attempt of summarizing the book. Lol) Anyways, what I love about this book is the way it gives me the epic fantasy feels. You know when you're reading a kind of book that just seems to take you to that certain world? This book does it! The world building of this book is good, but I have to admit that I had a rough time at first because there were just too many names of persons and places. However, it was resolved as the chapters went by. I especially love the characters here. Katsa and Po! Oh my goodness. I love this pair! A Prince and a King's niece? Why not? OTP! I found myself shipping them together all throughout the book. I actually love how they work together as a team. How they fight and train together-- it was awesome and entertaining! And did I mention that Prince Po is such a swoon-worthy character? Bae! And when it comes to Katsa, well, I really adore her. She's not difficult to like. Strong-willed, badass, and without angst. Definitely my type of heroine! This book, however, has some flaws and one of them is the ending. Turns out it's a bit hurried or something. And I was actually expecting a different ending especially for Po and Katsa. I was not so satisfied by that. Another thing is the action scenes. I kind of expected extreme, heart-pounding action scenes but they were just mild ones and not so challenging in my opinion. But as a whole, I really love this book. I love the characters, the setting, and the whole story itself. I highly recommend this book to everyone, especially for those of you who love fantasy books such as The Grisha trilogy and Red Queen. :) Rating: 4 Stars ...more Ambivalence: the coexistence within an individual of positive and negative feelings toward the same person, object, or action, simultaneously drawing him or her in opposite directions (Dictionary.com). Thus ends my Graceling review. Kidding! But it does sum it up nicely. On the one hand, I found it a fast, engaging read that was hard to put down. As a favorite tale states, there is \"fencing, fighting, torture, revenge, giants, monsters, chases, escapes, true love, miracles...\" Alright, maybe not Ambivalence: the coexistence within an individual of positive and negative feelings toward the same person, object, or action, simultaneously drawing him or her in opposite directions (Dictionary.com). Thus ends my Graceling review. Kidding! But it does sum it up nicely. On the one hand, I found it a fast, engaging read that was hard to put down. As a favorite tale states, there is \"fencing, fighting, torture, revenge, giants, monsters, chases, escapes, true love, miracles...\" Alright, maybe not the giants or monsters, at least in chimera form, but as human allegories they exist. It was particularly easy to get lost in reading with so many developments and the drive to know the ending. I sat down with it on a rainy day and finished it with a few hours. A few criticisms of the book center around the \"Mary Sue\" main character; a description I would have to dispute. Although Katsa seems invincible because of her Grace, she is emotionally stunted and out of touch with her own feelings, and the two together is what helps to make her character flawed and accessible. Katsa and Po are taken in interesting directions emotionally as they awaken to the greater application of their talents. I also give kudos to Cashore for not following the obvious and traditional ending, and for raising the marriage issue in a way that has potentially offended many readers. On the other hand, a central problem was a lack of audience definition. I don't read a great deal of young adult, but the writing style seemed particularly Spartan with frequently repeated phrases, simplistic characterizations and a generally stripped-down format that I associate with books targeting younger readers (or authors tired of their adult series--hello, Evanovich-- bad Carol! ). I tend to love word-smithing, and there were a bit many eyes flashing and scowling expressions for my taste. The most lavishly described section occurs late in the book when Katsa climbs a wintery mountain pass, almost as if either Katsa or Cashore was finally settling into her world and looking around at the scenery. World-building was somewhat scant and characterizations somewhat simplistic (evil is really evil because it controls people, abuses animals and scares young girls), which again I can't fault if a younger audience is the target. The challenge comes with a romance that (view spoiler) [eventually develops into a sexual relationship (hide spoiler) ] --probably removing it from the 10 year-old audience I had thought intended--or at least the less precocious ones. One of the most fascinating things about this book is the gender reversal. When discussing it in group, I realized that I likely would have disliked this book immensely had the talents of the two main characters been reversed. And there is one of the lynchpins of the book--had it been reversed, this book might have passed under the radar of most readers. As it was, I thought Katsa and Po were done well enough in the reversal to be believable. Conclusion? I wouldn't mind my niece or hypothetical daughter reading, but it's not present-worthy. Three reversed stars Cross posted at http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2013/0... ...more So basically this was freaking awesome. I am SO happy right now!! I had a few issues (like boredeom in the second half) but I have so much love for the epic characters, the awesome world, the whole concept of Graces, aaaand the names. THE NAMES ARE FABULOUS! There's Katsa, Raffin, Bitterblue (!), Po, Oll....I just love them. But we gotta talk about my new OTP. Katsa + Po = too much adorableness for words. Seriously they slay me with their intense cuteness. Katsa is, of course, an insanely talente So basically this was freaking awesome. I am SO happy right now!! I had a few issues (like boredeom in the second half) but I have so much love for the epic characters, the awesome world, the whole concept of Graces, aaaand the names. THE NAMES ARE FABULOUS! There's Katsa, Raffin, Bitterblue (!), Po, Oll....I just love them. But we gotta talk about my new OTP. Katsa + Po = too much adorableness for words. Seriously they slay me with their intense cuteness. Katsa is, of course, an insanely talented fighter. Her Grace is \"Killing\". So basically, don't tick her off. (She accidentally murdered her uncle when she was, like, 10.) Po is a wicked good fighter, and the reason they spend time together is because they're a good fighting match. True love through punching each other's daylights out?!! UM. I SHIP IT. Also Katsa is epic. Sure, on face-value, she looks like the average YA heroine who scorns dresses and punches people and is as tough as hundred-year-old-beef-jerky...BUT SHE'S MORE. She's also funny and witty. She's aware that the king has made her into his, like, dog. He says \"Kill\" and she has to do it. She doesn't have any breakdowns of \"Omg, I can't kill\"...but she starts to value justice , and that's what I really admired. Her character development is incredible . And Po ?! PO IS SO ADORABLE. *ahem* He's a Prince of a neighbouring country to Katsa's, but he's like the 6th in line for the throne, or something (it could be 7th, I can't remember) and everyone just loves him. He's like everyone's little bro. He's quite cheerful and talkative -- SO refreshing to read about!! I will literally give you anything if you hand me a book with a happy/talkative guy. WOOT FOR THESE ADORABLE MINORITIES. Also Po has this huge secret about (view spoiler) [his Grace, which...woah. He's not actually a fighter. He's a mindreader! SO COOL. And his Grace is complex and deep and so well written. It's not just \"oh and btw, I know what you're thinking\". There are rules to his mindreading, and he more picks up emotions and senses things before they happen. It's deliciously written. and I just about CRIED when he went blind at the end. AMAZING PLOT TWIST, AMIRITE?!! (hide spoiler) ] This author does NOT spare her characters, either. Which frightens me and makes me adore the book even more. I can't believe it's only a debut! THE WRITING IS SO GOOD. Okay, but I do have some twitchy moments...mostly to do with plot. The plot is basically a journey. They travel here for this reason, and then gallivant across the country for that, etc, etc. So, yes. It got boring. while I loved the characters and LOVED the Graces (which are so complex and well written and ingenious) I was getting seriously sleepy reading about Katsa travelling over a snowy mountain. I. don't. care. **snoozes quietly** I like survival stories, but the fighting and the dialogue and the Graces is this book's strong point. The beginning is incredible, but about 2/3rds in it gets super slow. And there isn't a lot of foreshadowing or anything. Things just play out pretty straightforward, and while there are some pretty dang delicious plot twists about Po and Katsa (and their Graces), I would've liked to see some twists relating to the physical actions as well. BUT BAH. You can't have everything. So I'm not even complaining. Bascially this book blew me away. I AM SO PLEASED. I'm reading a heck of a lot of epic fantasy at the moment and this is a) original, b) unique, c) funny!!!, d) easy to read, and e) full of winning characters and exceptional character development. I want book 2: Fire , except I don't think it's necessarily about Katsa?! SADNESS. I love Katsa so much. She easily goes down as one of my TOP favourite book heroines. And she and Po are one of my new OTPs. 'Scuse me. I must go and continue feeling ALL OF THE THINGS. *** \"Po,\" she said to his back, \"where's your coat?\" \"Where's yours?\" She moved to stand beside him. \"I'm warm.\" He tilted his head to her. \"If you're warm and I'm coatless, there's only one friendly thing for you to do.\" \"Go back and get your coat for you?\" Sighing, Helda carried the dress from the bathing room. \"It would look stunning, My Lady,\" she called, \"with your dark hair and your eyes.\" Katsa yanked at one of the more stubborn knots in her hair. She spoke to the bubbles gathered on the surface of the water. \"If there's anyone I wish to stun at dinner, I'll hit him in the face. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I am so disappointed right now. I was absolutely LOVING this book and everything about it...then about 1/2 way through, the author lost me as a fan entirely. I felt like she went away from telling the story and decided to promote premarital sex and an anti-marriage theme instead. THIS BOOK IS SUPPOSE TO BE FOR YOUNG ADULTS???!!! The main characters decide to have NO standards/morals what-so-ever! UGH!! I was SOOOO mad!!!! I had a hard time enjoying the rest of the story because I was just so dis I am so disappointed right now. I was absolutely LOVING this book and everything about it...then about 1/2 way through, the author lost me as a fan entirely. I felt like she went away from telling the story and decided to promote premarital sex and an anti-marriage theme instead. THIS BOOK IS SUPPOSE TO BE FOR YOUNG ADULTS???!!! The main characters decide to have NO standards/morals what-so-ever! UGH!! I was SOOOO mad!!!! I had a hard time enjoying the rest of the story because I was just so disappointed. I honestly would have given the book 5 stars...but then WHAM she throws in that completely irrelevant scene(not overly descriptive mind you..but a heck of a lot too descriptive for a 14yr old!!)...and then the innuendo continued off and on throughout the rest of the story. 14 and up???? 14??? WHY ON EARTH is this book being recommended to 14 year olds??!! GOOD GRIEF the characters hadn't even KISSED yet and then before you know it your in SHOCK because the author decided to make the characters lovers because the heroine doesn't believe in marriage...and then having her taking ancient remedies for birth control! UGH! It didn't even have anything to do with the MAIN plot and would have been such a good book without!! Okay I've gone off long enough....honestly it makes me more sad then anything. I have 3 little girl's and it just makes me sick to think about how much our society is pushing that this is ok to our youth.:( Anyway, after this all takes place in the story....it allll went down hill from there for me. The \"villan\" of the story is SOOO evil...disgustingly evil...the author didn't come out and say it...but all the facts lead you to believe he was being sexually abusive to his daughter and who knows how many others...The villian was already SUPER evil, why the author had to add incest in it I will NEVER know. It was all so very confusing and upsetting. Anyway back to giving this book a rating.... if it hadn't been for the NO morals, degrading of marriage,OH and ancient remedies for the morning after pill!!!!..UGH...all directed towards young adults...I would have given it 5 stars(SO the 1st half of the book)....but because of that I am torn between giving it a 1,2, or 3. Hmmm...I really did like the \"main plot\" and feel like the REST of it was well written...BUT all in all, I will NOT recommend this book because of it's lack of morals. ...more I came so very close to giving this one 5 stars. It was a great fantasy adventure with a strong female lead (perhaps too strong). Katsa is a girl with extraordinary powers. When she meets Po, a young man with powers of his own, they strike up an unusual friendship and together set out to root out a growing evil. This book had a great plot with some surprizing twists. It had great characters (I loved Po), and a slowly growing romance, but in the end I was expecting someting from Katsa that she just I came so very close to giving this one 5 stars. It was a great fantasy adventure with a strong female lead (perhaps too strong). Katsa is a girl with extraordinary powers. When she meets Po, a young man with powers of his own, they strike up an unusual friendship and together set out to root out a growing evil. This book had a great plot with some surprizing twists. It had great characters (I loved Po), and a slowly growing romance, but in the end I was expecting someting from Katsa that she just did not deliver on. *SPOILERS* And here come the spoilers because I can not let it go without commenting on the real issue for me. The fact that Katsa is so dead set against marriage is not so totaly surprizing at first. She is an independant girl, but I was disappointed that she did not change her mind in the end. She made some progress towards seeing herself and her grace differently throughout the book that I thought a change of heart about marriage would have been even further progress. And honestly it is a shallow view of marriage that sees it as something limiting and confining. Not to mention irresponsible to think that you can have the physical relationship without the commitment of marriage. I guess it is a tesmament to how much I liked this book and the characters that I wanted so much for them to make that commitment. ...more First, this cover art is STUNNING. Second, er I dunno. I thought the conceit of this world was really interesting, but like most of the book I felt like it skimmed across the surface of things that could have been better explored. It read at a very young-adult level, which is ok, but a little surface-y for my tastes. I found myself over and over wanting a meatier delving into the character and what was happening in the world (which were some interesting characters and plotting.) Sword fighting heroine, check. Magical powers, check. A real relationship worth investing in, check. A dastardly villain, a young woman who questions the use of her own power and makes a conscious decision to change, and a twist at the end. All with a smooth flowing narrative that feels more like play than like work. Pure pleasure. In the seven kingdoms, there are some children who are born different. They are marked with eyes of two different colors, and they are called Gracelings. Gracelings have abilities beyond the natural, and they are feared and shunned by most people. There are many different Graces\u2014some are benign, like the Grace to swim long distances, or to juggle. And some are deadly. Katsa, niece to King Randa of Middluns, has a killing Grace. Since she was a small child she has been able to kill a grown man eas In the seven kingdoms, there are some children who are born different. They are marked with eyes of two different colors, and they are called Gracelings. Gracelings have abilities beyond the natural, and they are feared and shunned by most people. There are many different Graces\u2014some are benign, like the Grace to swim long distances, or to juggle. And some are deadly. Katsa, niece to King Randa of Middluns, has a killing Grace. Since she was a small child she has been able to kill a grown man easily with her bare hands. She lives as King Randa\u2019s enforcer\u2014he sends her to maim, torture and kill those who defy him. But Katsa has a secret. Far from just being King Randa\u2019s mad dog, she is also a part of a secret Council that does its best to watch over the seven kingdoms and bring justice and right to its people. When a Council mission brings her face to face with Po, a Lienid prince Graced with combat skills, Katsa has met her match for the first time. Po isn\u2019t afraid to meet her mismatched eyes. And Po can match her in a fight, blow for blow. Together, Katsa and Po begin an investigation into a mystery that has deadly roots in the most unexpected of places, and they will face a terrifying enemy who can confound even Katsa\u2019s Graced skills. At stake is nothing short of the fate of all seven kingdoms. The thing I really love about this book is the Council. Even from the opening page of this book, Katsa is living and thinking and acting for herself. All the other reviews I\u2019ve read make a big deal about how flawed Katsa is, and how wonderful it is to have a truly flawed heroine. I won\u2019t argue with that\u2014that\u2019s definitely nice. But what\u2019s even better is, instead of watching Katsa grow into a strong young woman is seeing that she is one from the first page. The Council is amazing. I love that from the moment we meet her, Katsa is already stepping up and doing good. Watching her grow from that into someone who recognizes her own self-worth is a joy. But that\u2019s not the only great thing about this book. The first few chapters throw you right into the action, and the mystery\u2014so abruptly that I was confused, and I had to go back and reread those pages once I figured out what was going on. But good confused. The kind of confused that makes you want to know and understand. The politics of Katsa\u2019s world intrigue me\u2014I\u2019m very glad that there are going to be other books set in the seven kingdoms so I can understand it more. There\u2019s a lot going on in these books, and once you realize where the plot is going\u2014well, it\u2019s terrifying. The bad guy is seriously scary, and the possibility of failure is terrible. Graceling is an old-school adventure/romance that feels fresh and vibrant and new. ...more EDIT: THIS REVIEW IS IN NEED OF A REWRITE. I bumped this up to 3 stars. There's really only 1 thing about this book I didnt like. Katsa's attitude and some of her decisions. Second review: Main idea: My goodreads buddy Isis says it best on her review, and I'll echo her sentiments that \"being an angry bitch doesn't give someone a strong constitution or character.\"", "Title": "Graceling"},
