{"Comments": "<+++>Dear John</+++> by <---A>Nicholas Sparks</---A> is one of those books I've developed a love/hate relationship with. I love, love,<---M> love the first part of the book</---M>, and I immediately fell for the main character, John Tyree. But when he gets his <+++>Dear John</+++> letter, it was all down hill from there, and I have to say I was left in angst. The ending is to some extent depressing, but I do have to give it to Sparks because he paints a realistic picture. However, someone needs to let the man know that he's writing fiction an Dear John by Nicholas Sparks is one of those books I've developed a love/hate relationship with. I love, love, love the first part of the book, and I immediately fell for the main character, John Tyree. But when he gets his Dear John letter, it was all down hill from there, and I have to say I was left in angst. The ending is to some extent depressing, but I do have to give it to Sparks because he paints a realistic picture. However, someone needs to let the man know that he's writing fiction and sometimes, it's okay to have a happily ever after.<---F> His readers would surely appreciate it</---F>. About the book\u2026 John Tyree's life is spiraling down hill when he decides to join the army. During a leave, he comes home and meets Savannah, and that's when his life takes a turn. They fall in love, and because of her, he learns how to forge a relationship with his father. He returns to his base in Germany with the hopes of coming home to Savannah when his tour is over. Then 9/11 hits, and he makes a choice that will change his life forever. Great story, with a realistic yet off-of-the-charts sad ending. Let's just say, I'll proceed with caution when choosing another Sparks book in the future. ...more Spoiler Alert - Though it started out really well, I hated the ending! In typical Sparks fashion, your not left with a happy ending. Though I have been a fan of his (<---B>The Notebook is one of my favorites</---B>), I am growing weary of these endings. I just don't like to invest my time and the roller coaster of emotions he sends you through only to be left unsatisfied. (If you've seen the movie Cold Mountain, you may get what I mean. I felt the same way at the end of it, \"Hello...I spent 3 hours watching Spoiler Alert - Though it started out really well, I hated the ending! In typical Sparks fashion, your not left with a happy ending. Though I have been a fan of his (The Notebook is one of my favorites), I am growing weary of these endings. I just don't like to invest my time and the roller coaster of emotions he sends you through only to be left unsatisfied. (If you've seen the movie Cold Mountain, you may get what I mean. I felt the same way at the end of it, \"Hello...I spent 3 hours watching this movie for this!) Anyway, I felt like this could have been a really good book had it ended differently. I mean the poor guy is left with absolutely nothing, while (thanks to him)she goes off into the sunset with another man. Yes, it was a great selfless act that he did, but it doesn't make for a great ending. Did I mention the man was left with nothing! hehe ...more This book needs to have a different title like maybe The Rehash or The Tragic Tragedy . Seriously how many times do we have to hear about the same scenes?!?! Ok so I didn't hate it, but really it was a bit of an overload. I had it coming though, I mean what did I expect by picking up a Nicholas Sparks novel? Sparks is a popular author for a reason. His writing draws you in but not forcefully. The words gently tug you along and before you know it you have to finish the book. I will give him This book needs to have a different title like maybe The Rehash or The Tragic Tragedy . Seriously how many times do we have to hear about the same scenes?!?! Ok so I didn't hate it, but really it was a bit of an overload. I had it coming though, I mean what did I expect by picking up a Nicholas Sparks novel? Sparks is a popular author for a reason. His writing draws you in but not forcefully. The words gently tug you along and before you know it you have to finish the book. I will give him props for that because I'm not one of those people who has to see a book to the end, if it's not holding my interest I chuck it. After I finished reading I literally was exhausted. It's like Sparks was sitting at his computer and thought about all the ways to make it romantically tragic. I can just see him now, \"Aha! That will definitely be a tear jerker, I'm a genius!\" Way overdone. I cannot say that enough. Don't get me wrong there a scenes where you are like that was good, but he tries to stick in too many. He is a master puppeteer when it comes to pulling your heart strings, basically merciless this guy. The premise was interesting because I grew up as a military kid and I wanted see the perspective of a soldier without children. John is good in the beginning but then he changes pretty dramatically. In the first half of the book he keeps saying and my love grew stronger at least 4 or 5 times. Really John how much stronger can it get? There was this thing that really bothered me. He kept saying base but in the Army they call it a post, the Air Force calls military installations bases. The terms are of course are interchangeable and people use them both, but for the time John is in the Army he would have known that. I would have rather read a story focused on John's relationship with his father and have Savannah as a side note. That would have been better. Kind of a let down and don't even feel like watching the movie anymore. Basically I'm saying to pick up something else if you are not into sappy, sad, melodramatic stories. ...more OK, so...I finally finished. Like a lot of other people, I read this simply because I saw the preview for the movie and I HAVE to read a book before I see the film adaptation. In this case, I really wish I wasn't so anal retentive. Anyhoo, the book. Typical Sparks fare - star-crossed lovers, torn apart by fate, life, what have you. I really enjoyed the interaction between John and his father a lot more than I did his relationship with Savannah, maybe because it seemed far more real . I never warme OK, so...I finally finished. Like a lot of other people, I read this simply because I saw the preview for the movie and I HAVE to read a book before I see the film adaptation. In this case, I really wish I wasn't so anal retentive. Anyhoo, the book. Typical Sparks fare - star-crossed lovers, torn apart by fate, life, what have you. I really enjoyed the interaction between John and his father a lot more than I did his relationship with Savannah, maybe because it seemed far more real . I never warmed up to Savannah, even though she was supposed to be the perfect, lovely Southern young lady. And, like SO many other reviews on here, I too thought the ending was horrid. As I was nearing the end of my audiobook, I knew exactly how it would end, but I still had another disc to go. It was seriously painful...I can get behind tragic/unrequited love stories, but this one just seemed so pointless. John literally gives up everything he has in his entire life for someone who treats him badly for 90% of their relationship. I always know what I'm getting myself into with a Sparks book, but in this case I left feeling totally dissatisfied; it's like when you go to a buffet, and you know what you're about to eat is terrible for you, but you binge anyways and have massive regrets immediately afterward. I'll still go see the movie, mostly because my sister-in-law is super excited to see it, but part of me hopes this is one of those instances where Hollywood romanticizes things and changes the ending. This book could really use it. ...more Mom recommended this one- I hate Nick Sparks' writing. It's too simplistic and yet too formal. In my opinion, no one in this day and age is allowed to use \"for\" when they mean \"because.\" Too plot driven and he spells everything out. I might have loved this in 7th grade... If Savannah can wait for 21 years to give her virginity to someone she loves... Then why can't she wait a little bit longer for John to come back from the army???!!! She's madly in love with him. Is that what a nice and a sweet person supposed to do?! I could handle the slowness and the too-much-narration of this book. but THAT THING , the one that I mentioned above... I couldn't take it. Really. She's just unbelievable. She doesn't even know what she really wants! Okay, so, this is my second Nichola If Savannah can wait for 21 years to give her virginity to someone she loves... Then why can't she wait a little bit longer for John to come back from the army???!!! She's madly in love with him. Is that what a nice and a sweet person supposed to do?! I could handle the slowness and the too-much-narration of this book. but THAT THING , the one that I mentioned above... I couldn't take it. Really. She's just unbelievable. She doesn't even know what she really wants! Okay, so, this is my second Nicholas Sparks's novel after A Walk to Remember , which I really loved. It tells a story of John Tyree who takes two weeks off from the army. Then he met a sweet girl named Savannah, who by chance did a volunteering in John's neighborhood. As you might already guess, they fall in love for each other. Really deep. They're quite certain they're gonna get married to each other and live happily ever after. Until 9/11 tragedy ruins everything. I started reading this book 2 months ago but it stopped after I read chapter one. I liked it when John talking about his awkward relationship with his calm/quiet father, but my enthusiasm faded when he talked much about Savannah. It kinda boring to me. Maybe I'm not really into romance. But I don't think it should be that flat, right? What happened to John is love at first sight with a sweet, nice and almost perfect girl with almost no real conflict between them. Even their fight over Savannah's diagnosis of John's father didn't really move me. Tedious as before. And then that moment came. When John's father got sick. My God, it was so depressing. Really. Even the single explanation of his father's condition broke me into tears. I really wish Sparks would talk more about Asperger syndrome that John's father suffered from rather than his agitating relationship with Savannah. And I think this is the main reason why I gave this book a three stars instead of two. It was all for John and his father relationship. <333 Alright, it's not always agitating when John narrated his relationship with Savannah. It was good near the end, though. The conflict was real. Even though Savannah became more hateful than before (at least to my own opinion), it was nice to finally read something interesting between them. What happened to John and Savannah in the end wasn't something that everyone would call a happily ever after, but it's still acceptable to me. Since, you know, i don't really adore this couple. :p So that's all my review for this book. I really need to watch the movie again and decide which one is much better. And for you, who decides to read this book, enjoy yourself while reading it and be patient if you hate a slow pace story. ...more Opening Line: \"My name is John Tyree. I was born in 1977, and I grew up in Wilmington, North Carolina...\" You can always tell you're reading a great book when you find yourself skipping ahead into the final chapters to see how things will be resolved, even though you've vowed you wouldn't. Love doesn't always have a happy ending (especially when it comes to a Nicholas Sparks novel) and this is a wonderful, albeit quick tear-jerking romance. Our hero John grew up with a silent, meticulously organi Opening Line: \"My name is John Tyree. I was born in 1977, and I grew up in Wilmington, North Carolina...\" You can always tell you're reading a great book when you find yourself skipping ahead into the final chapters to see how things will be resolved, even though you've vowed you wouldn't. Love doesn't always have a happy ending (especially when it comes to a Nicholas Sparks novel) and this is a wonderful, albeit quick tear-jerking romance. Our hero John grew up with a silent, meticulously organized father that he didn't understand. In his teens he began to rebel, hanging out, playing pool and drinking. This continues for a number of years with John working menial jobs, getting several tattoos and going nowhere fast. Eventually John decides its time to grow up and he joins the army. In fact it's during 2 weeks leave that he first meets Savannah, diving into the ocean to rescue her sinking purse. Savannah is your stereotypical good-girl; raised in a stable family she's kind, pretty and hopes to save the world. It's also love at first sight for our couple despite the warnings from her tattoo phobic college friends. Together the pair plans a future together, counting down the days until John's discharge as Savannah helps him understand his father and he in turn feels contentment for the first time in his life. On Sept 11 everything changes as John in a moment of patriotic loyalty chooses to re-up in the army, putting a hold on their marriage plans while he enters the war in Iraq. The two try to maintain a long distance relationship but the war changes John and the years apart put a strain on their deep love. When John's father grows ill he returns home but will he be too late to save both his relationship with his father and the love of his life? I fell in love with John's character and surprisingly his father too. Each is well written and they felt like real people. I also enjoyed reading about John's military career and the reasons that take men into a war. Savannah as the heroine was a little too perfect for me but their heartbreaking love story and the regret that they both share will keep you up into the wee hours, and leave you wondering about John long after you've finished reading its bittersweet ending. Another great read from Nicholas Sparks that I would definitely recommend. Oh, and John if you're out there, I'm single... ...more Let me start off by saying that I am not a re-reader. My philosophy is why re-read when you can read something new, right? But when I saw the re-release of Dear John by Nicholas Sparks (with Channing Tatum on the cover!!) and the fact that a movie was made based on the novel, I wanted to revisit John and Savannah. I think it goes without saying that Nicholas Sparks is one of my favorite authors. If Sparks writes it, I will read it. His books are on my auto-buy list. It all started with the movie Let me start off by saying that I am not a re-reader. My philosophy is why re-read when you can read something new, right? But when I saw the re-release of Dear John by Nicholas Sparks (with Channing Tatum on the cover!!) and the fact that a movie was made based on the novel, I wanted to revisit John and Savannah. I think it goes without saying that Nicholas Sparks is one of my favorite authors. If Sparks writes it, I will read it. His books are on my auto-buy list. It all started with the movie The Notebook . I was completely and utterly captivated with Noah and Allie's story. I wanted more. When I found out the movie was based on a novel, I went to the bookstore and picked it up and read my very first Nicholas Sparks novel. Then I read At First Sight , True Believer , Message in a Bottle ....the list goes on and on. I fell in love with his writing style, the characters and with North Carolina (the state itself is a character in its own right in each of his novels). Sparks has a way of getting the reader immersed in his story, longing for more. He has a knack for pulling the reader right into the story. Dear John is story of love, loss and emotion. It is a story that begs the question 'what if...?'. What if you took a different path in life? Would you still end up at the same destination? What if you made the wrong choice? Would you live to regret it? And what about the tougher questions, like how long would you wait for the one you love? Can love survive the distance? John is a bit of a rebel but never fell too far off the right path. He was raised by his father, though the two weren't all that close. John had a hard time relating to his father. His father's coin collecting hobby kept them close for a short while. Over time, the two grew further apart. After high school, John realized he wasn't going anywhere in life so he enlisted with the Army for a 4-year tour. Savannah is a girl who is pure and full of na\u00efve innocence. She's an all-around good girl; you could even call her a goody two-shoes. She lives in a small town and is very close to her parents. She dreams of opening up a horse ranch for autistic kids. It is on a break from school, when she's volunteering for Habit for Humanity, that she meets John and the two fall quickly in love. Neither John or Savannah were expecting to fall in love but their attraction was inevitable. His two-week furlough is up and he has to return to Germany. Savannah promises to wait for John to finish out his tour. The two continue their relationship through handwritten letters. Savannah writes first. Dear John, There's so much I want to say to you, but I'm not sure where I should begin. Should I start by telling you that I love you? Or that the days I've spent with you have been the happiest in my life? Or that in the short time I've known you, I've come to believe that we were meant to be together? I could say all those things and all would be true, but as I reread them, all I can think is that I wish I were with you now, holding your hand and watching your elusive smile. The two continue their relationship through romantic letters, then the events of 9/11 happen and John re-enlists. The distance and time apart put a toll on their relationship. And the questions of \"what if...?\" begin. Dear John is one of my favorite reads by Nicholas Sparks. It is a story you will not soon forget. You will cry. Your heart will ache. You will find yourself asking \"what if...?\". Dear John is about a love lost but not forgotten. I don't agree with some of the choices made by either John or Savannah but John's selfless act at the end of the story made me proud. Have the tissues ready! If you love a good, seamless love story that pulls on your heart strings, then you need to read Dear John . In fact, you need to read everything by Nicholas Sparks. His stories of timeless, endless love will captivate your heart and stay with you. A movie has been made based on this novel. To date, there have been 6 book-to-movie adaptions for Sparks' works. I have yet to see Dear John but I will definitely be getting the DVD once it gets released for my collection. Review originally posted on The Book Vixen . ...more I would recommend this read to anyone who wanted something easy to read that would NOT make you think. Dear John, Next time fate smiles on you: Finish your time in the Army, let fate take its course with the husband of the woman you love, Marry your soul mate, raise the autistic child of the fore mentioned and now deceased husband of the woman you love, keep your father's coin collection to honor his memory, have two children with your soul mate, and... OK finally sell the coins to pay for your c I would recommend this read to anyone who wanted something easy to read that would NOT make you think. Dear John, Next time fate smiles on you: Finish your time in the Army, let fate take its course with the husband of the woman you love, Marry your soul mate, raise the autistic child of the fore mentioned and now deceased husband of the woman you love, keep your father's coin collection to honor his memory, have two children with your soul mate, and... OK finally sell the coins to pay for your children's education. Yours truly, sanity P.S. Have fun howling at the moon every month...you bleeding heart sapp!!! ...more This was a great book! I'm a huge Nicolas Sparks fan & have read all of his books now:) This is one of my favorites! Great story, easy to read, & it really sucks you in! Ok, I loved it!!! When is Nicolas coming out with a new book!?!?!? I was looking for a book to read for the El trip home but didn't have time to really search. This was in the discard section of the library and I grabbed it thinking that it couldn't be that bad. After all, the Notebook was a good guilty pleasure. Could not have been more wrong. Ugh. I wanted to tear my eyes out and stomp on them after reading this. I felt dirty and compromised as if I had too much to drink one night and woke up next to a naked Mike Huckabee. This book was beyond preachy and con I was looking for a book to read for the El trip home but didn't have time to really search. This was in the discard section of the library and I grabbed it thinking that it couldn't be that bad. After all, the Notebook was a good guilty pleasure. Could not have been more wrong. Ugh. I wanted to tear my eyes out and stomp on them after reading this. I felt dirty and compromised as if I had too much to drink one night and woke up next to a naked Mike Huckabee. This book was beyond preachy and condescending. Ooof. I have to finish books when I start them so I read this to the end. And then I threw it across the room. So long rant short, I did not enjoy this book. ...more DISAPPOINTING!!!!!! This poor guy gives literally everything he has to a woman he loved for a few months when he was a kid and leaves himself with nothing by the age of 30 so she can help her sick husband live? Sorry - not the romantic story I was looking for. Yeah, it's great for little Miss Savanah, but poor John ends up 3o with his whole entire life ahead of him and nothing to show for his past (including the only things his father held dear) or to share with the family we have to hope he eve DISAPPOINTING!!!!!! This poor guy gives literally everything he has to a woman he loved for a few months when he was a kid and leaves himself with nothing by the age of 30 so she can help her sick husband live? Sorry - not the romantic story I was looking for. Yeah, it's great for little Miss Savanah, but poor John ends up 3o with his whole entire life ahead of him and nothing to show for his past (including the only things his father held dear) or to share with the family we have to hope he eventually has. ...more Dear Nicholas Sparks, I really do not want to like you. I was all happy living in my somewhat snobby literary world where I turned my nose up at your novels. So many people love you and gush over your books. I would either bite my tongue to prevent myself from voicing my superior opinion because I was trying to be the good non-biased readers' advisory librarian; or if my friends were all gaga I would roll my eyes and talk about what good literature really is. Yeah, well, then I saw a kick ass pre Dear Nicholas Sparks, I really do not want to like you. I was all happy living in my somewhat snobby literary world where I turned my nose up at your novels. So many people love you and gush over your books. I would either bite my tongue to prevent myself from voicing my superior opinion because I was trying to be the good non-biased readers' advisory librarian; or if my friends were all gaga I would roll my eyes and talk about what good literature really is. Yeah, well, then I saw a kick ass preview from a movie that is coming out in February based on one of your books, Dear John. My infatuation with this preview was due to Channing Tatum, which dear God I just cannot help myself - I totally love, and the song Set Fire to the Third Bar by Snow Patrol. It looked like a fabulous heart-wrenching romance - my favorite kind. I couldn't get that preview out of my head and sometimes I would find it online to watch it (yes, I know, so pathetic). Then my coworker said she loved the preview too and decided to read it, and liked it. Despite the fact that I have ssoooo many other things I need to be reading, YA lit mostly, I thought, oh what the hell, why not? How do you do it? How do you write so simply and honest and yet so incredibly gut and heart wrenching? How is it, that you of all people, write my favorite kind of romance? The not always happy ending, bittersweet - the tragedy of love. The kind where I have one hand holding the book and the other one clutching my heart because you are slowly scraping at it trying to mangle it and in order to keep breathing so I can finish your damn book, I have to try and hold my heart together. You're killing me. What I want to know is, are there men out there really like John Tyree? I know most women wonder if the men in romance novels really exist or want them to exist so badly that they live in a false reality or read them because they are bitter and believe that no man exists like that. But mostly women write romance and they create the men we want. But you are a man. Do you still create men that you think women will want because you know it will sell or is some bit of honesty in the way you portray your men? Am I allowed to hope that honorable men exist and that there is a possibility of finding one? I've decided to try and keep hope alive and just go with there are very honest honorable men out there who are capable of sensitivity, true love and passion. So now, I'm so very glad and yet so very sorry to report that I am a fan of yours, even if I don't freely admit it. I need to keep some semblance of snobbery intact, at least for show. So thank you, thank you for giving a tragic romantic a good cry on a Friday afternoon and for also giving her hope and helping her to clearly etch out the man she wishes to be with someday. your new reluctantly adoring fan, Connie ...more I can read this book a million times and i am sure that i'll cry each time. Why does love has to be so difficult,why does Nicholas Sparks always has to make me cry? Why does he has to write such books which are so amazing and wonderful and frustratingly good?.I mean this is so unfair,everytime i pick Nicholas spark's book I know at the end I am gonna cry and amazingly I am gonna love the book immensely.I cried a little reading The Notebook and A walk to remember which were good but Dear John is I can read this book a million times and i am sure that i'll cry each time. Why does love has to be so difficult,why does Nicholas Sparks always has to make me cry? Why does he has to write such books which are so amazing and wonderful and frustratingly good?.I mean this is so unfair,everytime i pick Nicholas spark's book I know at the end I am gonna cry and amazingly I am gonna love the book immensely.I cried a little reading The Notebook and A walk to remember which were good but Dear John is just awesome so hope everyone would understand how much I have cried reading it. I really don't have any idea how am i suppose to write a review on a book like this,I don't think i am smart with words,I dunno how I am gonna write all the emotions I have felt while reading it.When I completed this book I felt as if my heart has broken into a million pieces for John. I have loved the character of John sooooooo much. I know to get someone like John you really have to be god's favourite. The book started with angry rebel John getting tired of his life and joining army,I must say his character was really strong and intense,incomprehensible in the beginning but lovable. He meets a girl named Savannah during his holidays and falls in love with her right away. Savannah changes John's life in the ways one can change a human. But unfortunately John has to leave at the end of his break, their keep correspondence through letters and phone calls but Savannah grows tired of waiting for him and falls in love with someone else,but John loves Savannah from the depth of his soul,he loved her to the limit where a human can love another human. I hate Savannah for being so vain and forgetting him,how could she have forgotten all those days,i seriously can't understand. The end part was the most difficult for me to read when John visits Savannah after she is married. With each line i felt like crying,by the end i was frustrated and angry at Nicholas Sparks, why did he had to end the book by breaking John's heart.This book is so unfair but then I guess love was never fair to anyone. This book shows the actual meaning of love. This book would be hated by people who think falling in love is being together all the time,going on dates,spending rest of the life happily ever after,even I thought the same before reading this book but I was utterly and shamelessly wrong. Love is not about being together physically,its being together in each other's heart and memories.Love is'nt only about spending rest of the life together it's about spending your life for the person you love,sacrificing everything you have for that one person even if you don't get to be with that person.Love is not only about being in one's heart,it's about being in one's soul,in one's memories like John and Savannah did.That is what Dear John has taught me.This book is a fresh change for me. I just love this book immensely and irrevocably. I am gonna treasure the memory of John in my heart for as long as I shall live. ...more Here's the last sentences from the epilogue that really made a deep tug at my heartstrings. \"She pauses then and crosses her arms, glancing over her shoulder to make sure no one has followed her. Finally, she seems to relax. And then I feel as if I'm witnessing a miracle, as ever so slowly she raises her face toward the moon. I watch her drink in the sight, sensing the flood of memories she's unleashed and wanting nothing more than to let her know I'm here. But instead I stay where I am and stare Here's the last sentences from the epilogue that really made a deep tug at my heartstrings. \"She pauses then and crosses her arms, glancing over her shoulder to make sure no one has followed her. Finally, she seems to relax. And then I feel as if I'm witnessing a miracle, as ever so slowly she raises her face toward the moon. I watch her drink in the sight, sensing the flood of memories she's unleashed and wanting nothing more than to let her know I'm here. But instead I stay where I am and stare up at the moon as well. And for the briefest instant, it almost feels like we're together again.\" Before coming up with those wonderful words, I would have rated it 3.5 or 4. I am not expecting this to be that good because of the movie that I used to watch first. I really can't help but think of <---C>Savannah Lynn Curtis</---C> and John Tyree whenever I'm staring at the full moon. ...more I really liked the narrator of this book a lot. I thought he did a fantastic job! That said, I was disappointed with the ending. Up to the ending the story was good - a little sappy but I like that every now and then. I particularly liked the story with John and his Dad. **Spoilers** Once Savannah broke up with John and married Tim I knew it wasn't going to end in a good way. Tim was sick and either he dies so that John can get the girl or John bows out and gets nothing. Either way it would be cra I really liked the narrator of this book a lot. I thought he did a fantastic job! That said, I was disappointed with the ending. Up to the ending the story was good - a little sappy but I like that every now and then. I particularly liked the story with John and his Dad. **Spoilers** Once Savannah broke up with John and married Tim I knew it wasn't going to end in a good way. Tim was sick and either he dies so that John can get the girl or John bows out and gets nothing. Either way it would be crappy. It ended up that John bows out plus sells his coins for Tim's recovery and ends up with no girl and no money. I guess that part makes me sad, especially given that Savannah doesn't love Time like she did John. Which makes me angry at Savannah for marring someone when she loved someone else more. ...more WOW This is my usual reaction after reading a Nicholas Sparks book. I adore this Guy's writing .Some may say his book is predictable,But even if it is, i enjoy it .In Dear john , Savannah and john love each other .I thought they were gonna end up with each other but fate had other plans with John going to the army .I loved the character of John,he is not perfect which makes him more real,whereas i cannot say the same about Savannah .At times i thought she was selfish . I found Tim's character ve WOW This is my usual reaction after reading a Nicholas Sparks book. I adore this Guy's writing .Some may say his book is predictable,But even if it is, i enjoy it .In Dear john , Savannah and john love each other .I thought they were gonna end up with each other but fate had other plans with John going to the army .I loved the character of John,he is not perfect which makes him more real,whereas i cannot say the same about Savannah .At times i thought she was selfish . I found Tim's character very endearing too, (view spoiler) [Even though i was sad for John Tyree , i am happy that Tim ended up with Savannah (hide spoiler) ] And like everyone says, \"Distance relationship never works\" not even in a novel ...more First things first, I'm going to tell you - hopefully briefly - about the new shelf I made and also, why I ever picked up this unfinished book again. This is my second attempt at writing this review... stupid crashingness! My Breakup Book Challenge I realised, some time last year, that I have an unfinished book for every doomed relationship in my history, it's not many - mind you - but still. A weird thing to notice.... 13 years after the first was shelved, no? And whilst I didn't really care wh First things first, I'm going to tell you - hopefully briefly - about the new shelf I made and also, why I ever picked up this unfinished book again. This is my second attempt at writing this review... stupid crashingness! My Breakup Book Challenge I realised, some time last year, that I have an unfinished book for every doomed relationship in my history, it's not many - mind you - but still. A weird thing to notice.... 13 years after the first was shelved, no? And whilst I didn't really care whether I ever finished Dear John there are a couple books on that shelf I do really want to re-read/finish. I chose this to be the starting point for a couple reasons, a) I didn't care if I ever finished this book so if I ended up hating it - residually - it didn't really matter, and b) it was the most logical of my thusly shelved books. With it being a book with an MC named John and the man I was dating at the time also being named John. Self preservation and all. I've read a fair few of Nicholas Sparks books and I always find them rather ploying. Sparks is not an organic writer... he seeks to make you feel a particular way and uses heavy-handed tactics to invest the reader, it's the way he writes. Leaving out the whole bible thumping and slut, vice and imperfection shaming nature of his writing - for the moment - I will say that this is very similar to all his other books. You've read one Sparks book and you've pretty much read them all. He doesn't really have a style, unless you get into the jesus preach and waify inhumanly perfect female characters. Sparks, what is so wrong with a female who enjoys a glass of wine or two, huh? Why does she have to be depressed to drink, you judgmental ass? I digress. I understand why romantics hate this novel, I really do! I, however, do not hate it. I wouldn't say I particularly like it but it has some merrit. There is a lot of shit heaped on this novel for the ending and I think that's crap, personally. I know Sparks hammers an ideal world into some peoples head with his writing and makes everyone think that love means riding into the sunset together. I prefer the real world... gritty, vice-riddled and chaotic as it may be... and whilst I don't think this could be said to live there, the ending is closer to it than the ending everyone seemed to want. I've really got nothing left to say about this. I remember drawing paralells to what I knew about Afghanistan and what he wrote but I just can't be bothered. People aren't reading this for real life soldier accuracy anyways. It's been done - and better - so I guess I'll just say, read it if you want... don't if you don't want, you aren't missing anything. Just because I cannot resist: ...more John Tyree grew up in Wilmington, North Carolina. A couple of years after John had graduated he felt like he was at a bit of a loose end. He'd had a few local jobs, but nothing ever lasted for long before he moved onto the next job. Although he lived with his father their relationship was pretty strained and when John had spare time he spent it surfing. Surfing was the only thing that he really enjoyed, but he knew had to find something else to do. John decides he will enlist in the army as he f John Tyree grew up in Wilmington, North Carolina. A couple of years after John had graduated he felt like he was at a bit of a loose end. He'd had a few local jobs, but nothing ever lasted for long before he moved onto the next job. Although he lived with his father their relationship was pretty strained and when John had spare time he spent it surfing. Surfing was the only thing that he really enjoyed, but he knew had to find something else to do. John decides he will enlist in the army as he feels he has nothing to keep him in his home town. Army life will make John grow up and become a different person. After being in the army for awhile he returns home on leave to spend time with his father. But his father hasn't changed and is still a hard person to get along with. To pass the hours John decides to gets back into surfing which he has missed. One day whilst out surfing John meets Savannah Lynn Curtis. She has just had her purse knocked into the ocean and John races into the water to retrieve it for her. From this day on they start to spend time together and in time they will fall in love. John takes Savannah home to meet his father and within a short time Savannah feels there is something not quite right with his father. Later on she will tell John that she thinks that his father has a disorder, but John won't hear of it and is adamant that she is wrong. The time comes when John must return to the army, but they will keep in contact thru letters and will count the days down to when John will return. In their letters to one another they will express how much they love one another and can't wait to see each other. As the days and weeks pass this time gets closer and soon they will be reunited. But then out of the blue something terrible happens which is 9/11. This day will change the lives for so many, but also for John and Savannah as John is torn between the duty to his country and the desire to go home to Savannah. But will Savannah understand if John decides to re-enlist? This is a beautiful love story which I really enjoyed. If you enjoy a good romance and are a romantic at heart then this book is definitely for you and I highly recommend you read it. ...more This was an assignment for a bookclub so I plunged in even though my last experience with Nicholas Sparks left a bad aftertaste in my mouth. If The Notebook left a bad aftertaste, Dear John had me dry heaving. Books like this make me wish I could just leave something unread, but once I start the first page the wheels have been set in motion and I'm there for the entire ride, no matter how dismal the scenery. I knew I was in trouble from the first sentence of the prologue (\"What does it mean to t This was an assignment for a bookclub so I plunged in even though my last experience with Nicholas Sparks left a bad aftertaste in my mouth. If The Notebook left a bad aftertaste, Dear John had me dry heaving. Books like this make me wish I could just leave something unread, but once I start the first page the wheels have been set in motion and I'm there for the entire ride, no matter how dismal the scenery. I knew I was in trouble from the first sentence of the prologue (\"What does it mean to truly love another?\") but I had hope it would get better. It didn't. Dear John is told in first person so I felt like I was actually trapped in a room with a bad conversationalist who was insistent on telling me his insipid love story. With no place to escape I kept reading. 276 pages of vapid writing and with an ending that only left me more irritated than the beginning. When the two main characters (John and Savannah) made their declarations of love after knowing each other only three days I almost lost my lunch. I'm Mormon and if you've ever spent time around us you know that it's pretty stereotypical for us to get engaged after knowing each other for a short time, but even I couldn't stomach John and Savannah deciding they loved each other after having dinner three times! Not only was the story horrid, but the writing was subpar as well. It felt laborious and I got the feeling it was something the author pumped out on a deadline, knowing that it would sell well no matter what he put into it. I also absolutely hate it when it's obvious the author has a new favorite word they have found in the thesaurus and it sticks out in a sentence like a sore thumb (portend was the word in this case). Predictable, boring, and a complete waste of time. If you want a good love story to escape in, try Gone With the Wind. ...more I really enjoyed reading this. Even if I saw the movie before I read the book I was still moved.I fell easily into the story and lived every exchange of words.It was much more complex than the movie and I really liked the way Nicholas described all the action and the characters. Even though I couldn't give the book 5 stars because the ending made me so disappointed :( . But i still recommend this for anyone who is looking for an easy but good book that will make you cry like a baby . CONSIGLIO DI DICEMBRE Si lo sono un p\u00f2 in ritardo..ma meglio tardi che mai ^_^ Grazie Tizi per avermi fatto leggere questo libro, che mi ha completamente rapito e straziato il cuore. L'ho appena finito e non sono lucida..soprattutto non ci vedo perch\u00e8 sto ancora piangendo. \u00e7_\u00e7 Non ci sono parole per descrivere l'amore che si sente, si avete capito bene si sente, fino a far esplodere il proprio cuore leggendo queste pagine. Semplicemente bellissimo. Dnf second time around, due to flagrant boredom. I just cannot deal with this author, there's no spark whatsoever (pun intented). As much as this book affected me in some ways, I couldn't give this book a higher rating due to: 1. The relationship between John & Savannah - too fast paced, with small rift can cause tonnes of issues that escalated more than intended. Letters to John were simplistic enough, and it wasn't the core of the story. I would prefer more letters written, exchanging the love between the lovers. 2. John's time in army was painted too simple, there's nothing than can make me associate how army actually As much as this book affected me in some ways, I couldn't give this book a higher rating due to: 1. The relationship between John & Savannah - too fast paced, with small rift can cause tonnes of issues that escalated more than intended. Letters to John were simplistic enough, and it wasn't the core of the story. I would prefer more letters written, exchanging the love between the lovers. 2. John's time in army was painted too simple, there's nothing than can make me associate how army actually is. The author should have done more research. 3. Savannah - how can she simply let John go even though she loves him? But, there are plus points in the novel, what I love most is the fact where the story started off with John describing his childhood memories, but the one thing that struck me most is the relationship between him & his father. I actually pitied John's father from the start, when John rebelled against him but he kept his silent, when he was trying to fit in, but then when John started started to scold him for his father's obsession on coins, his father tried his best to make John happy by putting away their only picture together (John grinning from ear to ear holding minted coins), or the fact his father raised John single handedly. When Savannah told the possibility of John's father suffering Asperger's Syndrome, it made him angry, but then John mended his relationship with his father. Then, he understood why his father keeps silent, and conversation would be one sided or the obsession with coins, or the fact that his father follows certain protocol without fail. That part teared me up. I imagined how hard it must be for his father to raise him up as a single father, and then trying his best to fit in and cope with John's demands. The final years of his father was pro-founding & had me crying. It was wonderfully written on how John trying to mend his relationship with father, or the fact how he had taken his father for granted all these while. The book could have a happier ending, I mean that's what fictions are right? But then, maybe Sparks try his best to put a more realistic approach, that the lover won;t be united in the end. If you want a tear jerker, this is it. I stayed up late trying to finish this book, and that ends me giving a 3.5 to this book ...more First of all i have to mention this is the first maybe the last novel which i read from endless number of romances of Sparks. It's more than a romance! I don't usually surf in the romance section in the bookstore. One day i accidently saw Dear John on the shelf of deserted counter. There were many novels of him including \"The Notebook\", \"A walk to remember\", \"Message in a bottle\" so on.. After reading the question on back of the book i bought it without hesitation. The question was : \".. can they First of all i have to mention this is the first maybe the last novel which i read from endless number of romances of Sparks. It's more than a romance! I don't usually surf in the romance section in the bookstore. One day i accidently saw Dear John on the shelf of deserted counter. There were many novels of him including \"The Notebook\", \"A walk to remember\", \"Message in a bottle\" so on.. After reading the question on back of the book i bought it without hesitation. The question was : \".. can they survive the distance?\" This is life story of John Tyree, american special forces soldier and his distance relationship. John was a trouble maker in his youth. After dropped out from his high school John enlisted into army. He had problems with his attitude. In the army John has been changed. He's a tall, calm, well-built average soldier who has no friends apart from army. He lives on side of the beach with his dad. His dad has some serious mental disorders. One time on the leave John met Savannah. Two weeks. That's all it took to fall in love with her. After two weeks Savannah had to leave to the college. They made a promise that they will write to each other. They kept a promise till 9/11. The day shook the world John decided to enlist back to serve his country some more years. Unfortunately Savannah couldn't bear the time&distance again. She fell in love with someone another. Fate brought them together but distance kept them apart. In the end they couldn't survive the distance. Novel ended up John seeing Savannah from a distance. However the movie ends by their meeting after a long time. I am not sure which one to prefer. But i strongly believe what's meant to be always finds its way. Sometimes i want John's life. No friends, special duty for his country, a beach house, surfing on the sea all day. So much lonely but real. This novel made me realize about distance relationships as well was military duty seriously. I'm going to take motherland's call of duty very soon. To serve my country and be a better person, be a real man. ...more John comes from a single parent home, and had a rough relationship with his father. He joins the army a few years after high-school, because he realized he didn\u2019t like where his life was headed. John meets and falls in love with Savannah one week\u2019s time while he is on leave. They make plans to spend the rest of their lives together; however the world gets in their way. John, feeling patriotic after 9/11, re-ups in the army and heads off to the middle-east for 3 years. I thought the story was rea John comes from a single parent home, and had a rough relationship with his father. He joins the army a few years after high-school, because he realized he didn\u2019t like where his life was headed. John meets and falls in love with Savannah one week\u2019s time while he is on leave. They make plans to spend the rest of their lives together; however the world gets in their way. John, feeling patriotic after 9/11, re-ups in the army and heads off to the middle-east for 3 years. I thought the story was realistic in the way they grew apart. Well, Savannah grew, and John didn\u2019t because he is stuck in a war zone and all he has to focus on is his love at home. I have no doubt this happened too many times throughout this war. John\u2019s relationship with his father was really interesting. Savannah, a special education psychology major, helps John understand that his father has Asperger\u2019s. Knowing this, it changes how he\u2019s felt about him his entire life. The heroine is a little too sugary, and the story is a little sad, but I did really like Dear John . The title alone is enough to make you depressed. Apparently I am a glutton for punishment, because I am now a fan of the author. Whatever, Mr. Sparks. ...more True love means that you care for another's happiness more than your own, no matter how painful the choices you face might be. Sparks, I love this book, I love Savannah, John and Tim too.. I love you man.. Dear John is an amazing book, It took me to another place, made me feel such beautiful, strange feelings I can't even describe, each word touched me alot, Savannah's and John's love touched me way more. I liked the way they were and the way the book was. Despite that the whole novel was talking True love means that you care for another's happiness more than your own, no matter how painful the choices you face might be. Sparks, I love this book, I love Savannah, John and Tim too.. I love you man.. Dear John is an amazing book, It took me to another place, made me feel such beautiful, strange feelings I can't even describe, each word touched me alot, Savannah's and John's love touched me way more. I liked the way they were and the way the book was. Despite that the whole novel was talking about true love, and that we have to care about the people we love more than ourselves, but the ending was awful, I hated it, according to me it was the worst part of the book, he disappointed me. Anyway, it was really a beautiful book.. Just READ IT. ...more 4.25 stars What an end. It made me feel happy and broken and angry and bittersweet. I know this doesn't make sense, but it's true. It's just that... I wish I were loved like that. So I made my way (finally) through Nicholas Sparks\u2019 Dear John. Had we not been hit with a Nor\u2019Easter snow storm, and been snowed in on Saturday night, I probably wouldn\u2019t have read it. There were a million things I could have been doing around my house that day, and there are a handful of books yet to be read on my shelves, but something compelled me instead to give Dear John another go. At a certain point I just wanted to know what the end was going to be, and if it was going to end as badly as So I made my way (finally) through Nicholas Sparks\u2019 Dear John. Had we not been hit with a Nor\u2019Easter snow storm, and been snowed in on Saturday night, I probably wouldn\u2019t have read it. There were a million things I could have been doing around my house that day, and there are a handful of books yet to be read on my shelves, but something compelled me instead to give Dear John another go. At a certain point I just wanted to know what the end was going to be, and if it was going to end as badly as I suspected. Unfortunately, I am not one of those people who can just flip to the back and read the last chapter, I just can\u2019t do it. So instead, I tortured myself through another story with a shitty ending. There, I said it. The ending sucked. Almost as much as the ending of My Sister\u2019s Keeper\u2026I won\u2019t even begin to describe the anger that book and it\u2019s ending made me feel! The ending also sucked almost as much as the entire beginning and middle too. This is now the second book by Nicholas Sparks that has left me deflated and disappointed. Of course someone dies, it wouldn\u2019t be Sparks if someone didn\u2019t die, but surprisingly this time around it wasn\u2019t the hero or heroine (like in The Notebook, or A Walk to Remember, or Message in a Bottle, or Nights in Rodanthe - jeez the man likes to kill people!!). He sets up all of his stories as these epic romances, and I don\u2019t know about you, but when I read a romance novel, I want the couple to BE TOGETHER IN THE END! The Notebook is fine because she dies at an old age and they have a wonderful life together. Death can be okay as an end only if the author does the love story justice (example where this is not okay \u2013 Nights in Rodanthe). It is NOT okay in my opinion to write twenty some chapters about a couple who in the end you are going to pull apart and when you have your heroine \u201cfall in love\u201d and marry the wrong guy for all of the wrong reasons when the right guy is right there, still loving her with absolutely everything that he has and who will never stop loving her. The end of the book left me wanting to go out and find all of the John Tyree\u2019s of the world and give them big hugs and tell them that I am sorry the women they fell in love with turned out to be bitches. I often let Nicholas Spark\u2019s slide because he is a man writing romance, and let\u2019s face it\u2026men really have no idea what women want or how we think. However, how many times will he write novels in a male point of view and use the same do-eyed good Christian girl as the female love interest? Aside from the plot being weak and often dragging, I still stick to what I said before \u2013 the writing was just lazy. He could have done so much more with John and Savannah\u2019s interactions, he could have given us a little more love and a little more\u2026soul. Yeah, that\u2019s the word I am looking for. I understand that in real life things don\u2019t always have a happy ending, and sometimes we get our hearts broken, but this is fiction and when reading fiction I want to be entertained. I want to get lost in a story that makes me feel good inside, that leaves me with hope at the end that love to last a lifetime really does exists. My disappointment with the story however will not necessarily stop me from seeing the movie adaptation. (And not just because Channing Tatum is playing John \u2013 although that helps!) I just watched the trailer for the movie again, and it looks like the screen writer has definitely done the words that Sparks wrote justice however just be warned that the trailer is deceiving. ...more \"Love meant that you care for another person's happiness more than you care for your own, no matter how painful the choices you face might be.\" Dear John, Why do you have to break my heart? This is the first ever Nicholas Sparks books I've read since I've never been a big fan of romance book. But I'm so glad I've given Dear John a try. I must say Channing Tatum charmed me, but really, a friend of mine, when she found out that I've never read any book from this brilliant author, and haven't watc \"Love meant that you care for another person's happiness more than you care for your own, no matter how painful the choices you face might be.\" Dear John, Why do you have to break my heart? This is the first ever Nicholas Sparks books I've read since I've never been a big fan of romance book. But I'm so glad I've given Dear John a try. I must say Channing Tatum charmed me, but really, a friend of mine, when she found out that I've never read any book from this brilliant author, and haven't watched any movie too convinced me to read it and just give it a try. Blessed her heart, because Dear John will forever stay with me. When I started reading this book, I was having a hard time finishing the Prologue chapter alone. I tried multiple times, but I always find myself reading the same sentences over and over again. Sometimes, it makes me sleep I realized I haven't even changed the page. When I was about to give up on this book, I thought about giving it one last try. I started reading it again, from the first page, and 6 eatless and back breaking hours later I'm halfway through the book. I can't put it down. I'm so invested with the story and the characters that I knew there was no going back. The start might be slow but it will be worth it in the end. I cried bucket of tears in this book. Mostly because of John's father. He's warm, kind and a loving father. Reading about him made me reminisce the moments I have with the father I lost. Sure my father isn't anything like John's father. While his was gentle, mine was rough, but just like his, mine was awkward and a loving father. I couldn't stop my tears from flowing every time I get to the part where John describes his father, but that's not the only heartbreaking scene in this book. \"But I did meet her; that's the thing that makes my current life so strange. I fell in love with her when we were together, then fell deeper in love with her in the years we were apart.\" It's strange really . I should have found the above quote so cheesy it hurts, but the thing was, even then it sounds sincere and sad to me. I knew that this book was more than cheesy and romance story. Now, let's talk about the ending. I've heard humors about Nicholas Sparks's novels, I just never realized it was like this. But honestly, I'd probably hate this book if it didn't end up the way it did . It hurts, sure, but that's what makes it so real and remarkable for me. I wouldn't be able to forget about this book anytime soon, in fact I'm on my way on watching the movie right about now. Now, please excuse me while I go and put my heart back together. ...more", "Title": "Dear John"},
