{"Comments": "Warning: The dragons in this review are named Giant and Spoilers. I have tried to shield most of them from view, but don\u2019t get mad at me if one of them burns you. With this book, it was bound to happen.<---F> This one was a real mudfight</---F>. Between me, myself and I. Me didn\u2019t get beyond \u201cSQUEEE!\u201d for several hundred pages, Myself, while also trying to get over her grammatically awkward name, came up with the logical reasoning why this reaction was totally okay and based on something other than left over t Warning: The dragons in this review are named Giant and Spoilers. I have tried to shield most of them from view, but don\u2019t get mad at me if one of them burns you. With this book, it was bound to happen. This one was a real mudfight. Between me, myself and I. Me didn\u2019t get beyond \u201cSQUEEE!\u201d for several hundred pages, Myself, while also trying to get over her grammatically awkward name, came up with the logical reasoning why this reaction was totally okay and based on something other than left over teenage hormones ...and I glared at both of these two delusional fools and tried to figure out what was wrong with them. With these three in my head,<---M> along with GRRM\u2019s cast of thousands</---M>, it made for a very messy, crowded and contradictory reading experience. It didn\u2019t take me a week to finish this book because it was long. It took me a week to finish this book because the three people in my head needed to have it out after every chapter and big moment and would not shut up. Needless to say this is going to be a bit of a mixed review. So. Let\u2019s start with the good stuff and get everybody settled in, shall we? The Good: So, as usual, GRRM\u2019s world is three dimensional (or perhaps more, I might\u2019ve lost track in one of the appendices), sprawling, dirty, pulsing and real. It\u2019s a banner of spices, wine, and gardens in full bloom unfurling. Opening these books is like walking into a forest and picking up a handful of dirt, letting it run through your fingers as you start on one of the hundred paths you know are waiting. After six years, it was a thrill to let it envelope me, and at least at first, I was totally fine just letting myself be guided unresisting through the scenery. I also think that this book has a lot of really good things to say about politics, law, war, and the realities of being a ruler or a subject. The first few chapters seemed like a treatise on how fragile the foundations of law are, and in particular international law of any kind. GRRM shows everyone still scrambling from the disasters of Storm of Swords, trying to find some way to survive, after all existing law and order has disappeared. The law is just another chimera is people resort to: using outdated or foreign or superseded laws as weapons, and applying them wildly out of context because that\u2019s the only way they can justify themselves. He\u2019s even better at talking about the wages of war and the realities of the aftermath. Aside from his squirm inducing descriptions of battle wounds, entrails hanging in bushes, and flies crawling out of eyeballs which, if nothing else, will not let anyone reading forget what war is, GRRM is excellent at showing how the cycle of conflict never, never, ever ends. We\u2019re five books and twenty years on from the rebellion that put the events of Game of Thrones in motion, and there are at least four wars going on and three generations fighting them. The kids die and these old men linger on and on, cherishing plots within plots in hopes of revenge for events that occurred thirty years before. And the thing is that they still matter, because they\u2019re still sitting there in their positions of power, long after the world is supposedly fighting about something else. They will rear their heads and (view spoiler) [stab the only good man in a viper\u2019s nest because he is threatening them with peace in a way that they have not planned (hide spoiler) ] . Peace and war mean nothing next to utopia and imperfections- waiting for it all to turn out just the way they planned is their ultimate payoff for years of humiliations and insults. Old men with all their eggs in one basket ar terrifying. The last chapter of this book was, ultimately, one of the more satisfying (though not as much as it could have been, see below) things in the book- (view spoiler) [ as Varys, poor, forgotten old still powerful, connected Varys who no one could ever entirely control comes out of nowhere. It\u2019s always the butler, you guys. But someone forgot to tell that to the Seven Kingdoms. (hide spoiler) ] It was also great that along with these never ending generational conflicts, there were plots within plots with little tunnels leading to other plots. Those in Plot A might be involved in/aware of B, but certainly don\u2019t know about C, though people in D are certainly aware of A but not B, etc, and are clearly going to have spectacular head-on collisions from flailing about in the dark, or thinking they understood the plan when they were very very wrong. I am a big fan of dropping Life Happens into carefully plotted stories. Just because. Because traffic jams on the interstate don\u2019t know that you have an hour to defuse the bomb, and the lady next door was in a bad mood yesterday. You can\u2019t just trust that you can go through the motions you have planned out and it will be okay- you have to work at each motion and there\u2019s someone to be paid off, distracted, appeased, or avoided at each step. I also liked that this book was an up close and personal look at all the stuff that King Robert was whining about in the first book- winning a kingdom is relatively easy compared to holding it. Winning is hammers and glory and a single purpose, holding is compromising and trudging your feet in the mud to get one inch of what you really want done. In a country where presidential campaigns get longer every year, and the news media prefers to analyze who \u2018won\u2019 and \u2018lost\u2019 at every political occasion ever, I feel like this is not an unimportant insight to bring up and explore. Of course they prefer to concentrate on the gladiatorial aspect- it is easy, clear, and not fraught with moral tangles that would be \u2018elitist\u2019 to try to discuss in a complex way on national television. Plus, ruling every day is boring and almost universally depressing. The wages of winning wars are getting what you wish for, over and over again, and finding out that what you wish for is just going to make someone else want to kill you as much as you wanted to kill the guy before. Martin is upfront about the terrible choices available to even a well meaning ruler (though from Stannis to Daenerys, the definition of \u2018well meaning\u2019 certainly varies), and the realization that you will never, ever make a choice that will not hurt someone. A lot of people think that this book could have been skipped over, but I don\u2019t think so. This is a necessary book in an epic that is really, in the end, thousands of pages about the nature of war and kings. Again, a lot of people don\u2019t like all the random peripheral characters introduced, and the consequent lessening of the amount of screen time that we spend with old favorites, but I actually liked it. Ongoing conflicts and uncertainty will continue to involve more and more people, forced to finally become involved, or become something they weren\u2019t before, and the game board will change day by day according to how desperate people get to live or how irresistible taking advantage of the chaos becomes. There are so many types of wounds, from so many different times and places, and Martin manages to show them all (everything from that excellent moment where (view spoiler) [Tyrion slaps Penny, which kind of broke my heart a little to the disturbing, hard to read Reek chapters (hide spoiler) ] . Do I think that his sprawling, ungainly cast of characters were all necessary? No. Do I think that we needed two books like this? No. I also don\u2019t think he probably needed ten years and nearly two thousand pages to do this. In addition, I think that the map he\u2019s laid out for himself is going to cause him problems in the future. But for now, this is an extremely effective book about how surreal, insane and mindboggingly awful war is. That works for me. All right, now we come to the not-so-good to bad areas. Unfortunately, there were quite a few of these. First of all, while Martin\u2019s world is three dimensional and vivid, he forgot to make his characters that way in this book. This is an odd occurrence. One of his strong points is generally how character focused these books are. But the story\u2019s gotten away from Martin is my opinion. He\u2019s gotten to the point in his series where he needs to start marching people along to a particular place, and people are now becoming signposts, of a sort. I think so many of these characters have now been stuck along a sort of continuum from innocence to corruption, from power mad to submissive, that that\u2019s all that matters about them anymore. Either they are the extreme of innocence (Quentyn, Penny) or they are incredibly worldly wise, and there\u2019s very little room for grey in the middle. Martin\u2019s characterizations are not about people who sing, or a guy who moves his head in a weird way, or a man who must have three eggs every morning, the way you would usually do a character study, but simply what incarnation of power they are. And then he took an overly long time to tell me about their classification. Tyrion is perhaps the exception, and there are several moments that defied this, such as the (view spoiler) [ killing of Janos Slynt, the chapter where the Dorne kid gets burned up, a moment where Barristan Selmy wrestles with his service of Robert (hide spoiler) ] , these felt real. Because they were sudden, made sense with characterization, had complex history and motivations behind them, and told me all I needed to know. But with the exception of the (view spoiler) [Slynt part (hide spoiler) ] , he took ten unnecessary chapters to lead up to one good moment. Aside a few moments and Tyrion, Martin tears down any other motivation someone might have for something. There\u2019s no room for a combined grey area of delusion, belief, family, the desire to be good, desire to improve, to make a name, the motivations of guilt and/or grief. It\u2019s always, always, always about power. I don\u2019t think that this is a realistic way of depicting why people act the way they do. Did he (view spoiler) [ maybe take this back with the last chapter? With Varys and his long cherished belief in the prince? I don\u2019t know. Somehow I don\u2019t think so. We\u2019ll have to see in another five years. (hide spoiler) ] Also, although I thought that Martin did make a number of good points (as detailed above), he also spent a thousand pages belaboring four points into the ground, and telling me rather than showing me, most of the time. Or showing me and then telling me later, which was almost worse. One: Everything is ugly/anything that is pretty is evil or doomed (um, the entire book), Two: love is always something else in reality (Tyrion, Quentyn, Daenerys, etc), Three: \u201cwords are wind\u201d (EVER AGAIN, TOO SOON), Four: Clothes make the man (Cersei, Tyrion, Arya, Quentyn, Daenerys, the \u201cmummers\u201d). He hit me in the face with these points so many times, it went from being interesting and/or vivid to me wondering what sort of complexes he was working out on the page or asking mself he was just lazy or tired enough by the end of the book to just not care very much, and so repeating himself from earlier. I mean, I have so many questions. For example, why is it that everyone who is beautiful must be punished? I understand the skin deep thing and beauty is definitely a tool in the power game that can be taken away from someone, but why is it that it always, always must be wrong? You\u2019re all about realism- it felt like a point, not like the random lottery it should be of beautiful people who are nice and those who are jerks, those who are innocent and those who are manipulative. Did we really need Arya\u2019s entire storyline and most of Cersei\u2019s to tell us that people see what you look like? That social rank is all trappings? I don\u2019t think so. And yet, there seemed to be little point other than that. Also, the bigger issue for me was that, I don\u2019t know how to say this, but I think that Martin has forgotten why we all liked him in the first place. Or at least why I do, in large part. Because of his insistence on breaking down delusions and tales and attempting to retell legends with a dose of messy reality. The biggest symbol of this seemed to be his ability to deal with the most difficult reality of all: death. Fantasy and sci-fi genres have a lot of tools at their disposal to ensure that main characters never need to face this permanently. He chose to insist on it, quite effectively, starting right away in GoT. And now, five books later (view spoiler) [it seems like he\u2019s decided to backpedal on the one thing that made him famous, (hide spoiler) ] like he can\u2019t live up to the way he helped transform the genre (or part of it) and the others who have followed in the kind of \u2018movement\u2019 he began. Guys like Joe Abercrombie and Scott Lynch and all the rest. The genre\u2019s moved on from where it was when he first killed Eddard Stark, (view spoiler) [ and it seems like he\u2019s moved backwards and he regrets his decision that war and violence have permanent consequences and people who are important and likeable can die. Jon gets stabbed at the end of the book, but after all the false cliffhangers and people returned from the dead, who reading this ACTUALLY believes he is dead? I haven\u2019t the slightest faith that he is. Nor that Daenerys is in any danger. Nor that Ned or Rhaegar are dead, either. Okay, Ned probably is, but at this point, why not? Why would you go back on the thing you\u2019re most known for? I don't get his thinking. Just getting too attached to characters and exercising his powers as God to bring back anyone he regrets killing now? (hide spoiler) ] Maybe this would have been fine if all these books had come out one after the other in the late 1990s, but his audience (including me) has grown up now. I was in my early teen years when I started these books. They shaped my idea of what awesome fantasy was in a lot of ways since they got me so young and impressionable. But even I\u2019m impatient with him now. The trappings aren\u2019t enough to convince me he\u2019s Important in some way. He\u2019s still writing the same book he did in 1996, and not writing it as well. I mean, I did try to put myself in his shoes. He\u2019s probably been surrounded at conventions by fanboys and girls for ten years now, and in addition, my understanding is that he has been very lightly edited by his publishing house for at least the last two volumes because they just want to get the things out on the market and make some money. I can\u2019t conceive that he gets challenged a great deal about whatever he writes, so he has little motivation to think that he\u2019s doing anything less than perfect. I mean, I don\u2019t know, it\u2019s just a conjecture. At the opposite end of the spectrum, he\u2019s held onto this book for so long and the hype has become so breathless that he must\u2019ve felt the overwhelming need for some good old fashioned shock and awe. Hence (view spoiler) [ those silly cliffhangers at the end of each chapter, and the amount of people getting brought back from the dead. I can see someone getting to that point after wracking their brain for six years to come up with something so startling we\u2019d wait another half decade for the next one. (hide spoiler) ] I can only imagine the pressure. He wrote on his blog constantly about untangling the Meereenese knot. And the thing is.. after six years I don\u2019t think he did. I think he wrote about the knot itself. Is that what I just paid for? 1000 pages of you telling me why you couldn\u2019t move the plot forward? After 900 pages of doing that in the last book? I have a lot of patience for big books, and as I stated I don\u2019t in principle mind peripheral characters, but I think we have to admit that he\u2019s making his task in moving forward all the harder by introducing all these new threads and names, when he doesn\u2019t even know what to do with the main storyline. Oh, maybe that\u2019s why he did it. Just to stall. I don\u2019t know. In the end, my reaction to this book was, \u201cOh. So GRRM is just a normal fantasy writer now. Okay.\u201d That's pretty much the point. His methods and plotting is no longer vanguard, different, or really, much above average for the genre. I mean, that isn't a horrible put down. Says a lot about the quality of at least the first three books, or at least my experience of them. It\u2019s just run of the mill fantasy, from a plot perspective, with some writing skill and ideas that rise above, at times. Just not enough times. Not nearly enough times. I mean, don\u2019t get me wrong. I\u2019ll be in line with all of you for Winds of Winter when it comes out sometime in my old age. He\u2019s earned that much, and at this point, his books have been big milestones of my adult reading life. I just expect that I will be reading it with more realistic expectations, rather than with the wide eyed breathless staying-up-all-night attitude that I dove into this one with. Sorry, y\u2019all. I won this particular mudfight. And I didn\u2019t even really want to. Damnit. * * * UPDATE: Where all my nerds be at? BECAUSE THIS JUST GOT REAL: http://georgerrmartin.com/if-update.html * * * ORIGINAL: Amazon NOW claims that this book is coming out next fall. I'll believe it when I see it in my hands, George. Until then, I will assume this is another in your WEB OF LIES. ...more Dear <---A>George R.R. Martin</---A>. Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You may have killed my favorite character. Prepare to die roll in dough as we continue buying your brick-sized creations. (The above is what you'd expect from a book titled \"<+++>A Dance with Dragons</+++>.\" Disclaimer: For the vast majority of this book's pages, none of it happens.) Yes, I have a few problems with this latest installment in GRRM's neverending magnum opus. I have high standards for GRRM after ASOIAF 1-3. Hey, I read GRRM before I e Dear George R.R. Martin. Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You may have killed my favorite character. Prepare to die roll in dough as we continue buying your brick-sized creations. (The above is what you'd expect from a book titled \"<+++>A Dance with Dragons</+++>.\" Disclaimer: For the vast majority of this book's pages, none of it happens.) Yes, I have a few problems with this latest installment in GRRM's neverending magnum opus. I have high standards for GRRM after ASOIAF 1-3. Hey, I read GRRM before I ever read Tolkien. He showed me that it was okay to hold fantasy to high standards, for crying out loud! And now I am disappointed. *sadface* So allow me to use this review space for the gripe-fest. A thousand-plus pages doorstopper ( this book can easily serve as a self-defense weapon in a dark alley ) - and yet the story advances by a few millimeters at best. Nothing gets resolved. The characters spend pages and pages going about mundane tasks, participating in endless drawn-out conversations, pissing, eating, drinking, pissing, whoring, eating some more, pissing again. Is it supposed to make the story GRRM's trademark \"gritty and realistic\"? Seriously, I have not encountered this much information about bodily functions and food outside of nephrology textbooks and Food Network. This overload of description of landscapes, clothing, banquets, people, and food makes me snooze. FILLER! And it makes me wonder whether any editors AT ALL were involved in the creative process. ------------------------------------------------------------------------- GRRM's trademark move is ending everything with an \"OMG CLIFFHANGER!!!!!\" . Maybe it stems from his TV-writing days: the notion that the readers will tune back in, despite nothing really happening in the entire episode, only if the hero is left hanging off the cliff at the end? That's what this book felt like to me: pages and pages of very little happening, of a narrative stagnation, of endless repetitive conversations. And then, with a few chapters left to go - BAM! POW! BOOM! ( (view spoiler) [ Dragons are released! Jon (maybe) dies! Dany flies Drogon and meets Dothraki! Aegon invades! Jaime trades one cliffhanger for another! (hide spoiler) ] Which guarantees that we will read the next book. Cheap and lazy trick, Mr. Martin. In the meantime, I see another Tyrion or Dany or Quentyn or Davos chapter and get a nagging feeling - wait, haven't I read this already? ------------------------------------------------------------------------- WORDS ARE WIND - GRRM seems to hammer this message in on what feels like every other page. Yet if this book is any indication, given the lack of overall storyline development, HE HAS PASSED MORE THAN ENOUGH OF IT . ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Neverending repetition in this book is grating. Just to name a few: \"Words are wind\", \"leal\", \"neeps\", \"where do whores go?\", \"kissed by fire\", \"Reek rhymes with...\", \"jape\", \"nipples on a breastplate\", \"kill the boy\", \"it is known\", \"must needs\" ... Enough already! I miss the times when I was just eyerolling at \"You know nothing, Jon Snow\" . Which makes its appearance here as well, by the way. ------------------------------------------------------------------------- My problem with this book is that I expected a story . You know, where things are happening and storylines advance. VERY LITTLE OF THAT HAPPENS. Very few of the storylines led anywhere. Those that advanced somewhat were Jon's, Dany's, and Bran's (and the first two should have been trimmed a bit), and Theon/Reek's story was fascinating in its horror (Ramsay Snow Bolton joins the list of most hated characters EVER). And yet we are still barely a step away from the events that transpired back in Storm of Swords . And as for other storylines... Tyrion gives us a travelogue, and nothing that we could not have covered in a single chapter. Arya is doing pretty much the same stuff as before. Jaime's chapter traded one cliffhanger for another, and frankly, just like Cersei's chapters, was not necessary. Davos's and Quentyn's arcs could have been summed up with a sentence each in somebody else's POV. The ironborn, Dorne, Barristan - why were they needed in this book, again? A pictographic summary of ADWD. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Which leads me neatly to what I think is the root of all evil . GRRM's trademark move number two is supposed to be killing off characters. I call BS on that. Yes, he killed a few protagonists. BUT IN THEIR STEAD HE UNFAILINGLY SPROUTS WHAT FEELS LIKE DOZENS MORE . It seems that everyone and their grandmother is getting a POV chapter these days, which bogs down the story quite a bit. I really only care about the characters that we met in the first couple of books. I do understand the need to occasionally give us a perspective through a fresh set of eyes. That's cool. But here is a problem: (a) Do I really need an insight into the head of EVERYONE? Leave me with some mystery, please. (b) Too many cooks spoil the soup. I lose track of the overall story which comes to a standstill dealing with its ever-expanding cast. (c) The entire story arc of Quentyn Martell. Why? The details of his voyage were unnecessary to the story. His ultimate act was interesting, yes - so why not dedicate just ONE chapter to him (view spoiler) [ turning into a crisp? (hide spoiler) ] The story by now seems to have sprawled too wide and out of Mr. Martin's control. How can he satisfactorily wrap up this monster of a story with only two more planned volumes unless he pulls a Steven King in The Stand and suddenly kills off most of his POV characters? Which raises a question - why the need to introduce them in the first place? ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Martin is still a better writer than many out there - despite the gripe-fest above. But this was a mostly unsatisfying read which could have benefited from some serious editing and trimming of the verbal diarrhea. I will still read the next installment (when it's out, in a decade or so) - mainly because I need some resolution to this story despite its declining quality. I hope the next book will resemble the first three volumes. 3 stars .[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more \"Words are wind,\" says George R. R. Martin (GRRM) no less than 13 times in the latest installment of his A Song of Ice and Fire series. In this incredibly windy tome there was very little advancement of the overall story and no resolution to any of the myriad plot threads. Instead, most of the book followed characters travelling, yet in its 1,000+ pages only one reaches his destination while the rest are still travelling . Words are wind, and GRRM is a windbag. His predilection for overwriting i \"Words are wind,\" says George R. R. Martin (GRRM) no less than 13 times in the latest installment of his A Song of Ice and Fire series. In this incredibly windy tome there was very little advancement of the overall story and no resolution to any of the myriad plot threads. Instead, most of the book followed characters travelling, yet in its 1,000+ pages only one reaches his destination while the rest are still travelling . Words are wind, and GRRM is a windbag. His predilection for overwriting is ridiculous; an editor was desperately needed and sorely missed. Had this book been properly edited, we might have been saved 129 appearances of GRRM's new favorite words: leal, niello, neeps, nightsoil, serjeant, jape, and nuncle. Or spared 151 repetitions of annoying phrases like: Where do whores go? You know nothing, Jon Snow. words are wind it is known much and more little and less must needs a man grown a woman grown and flowered nipples on a breastplate Reek, rhymes with... (he/she/name) was not wrong GRRM likes to flood the reader with lists. Lists of dishes served at every meal, the exact order people entered and left rooms, a list of over 40 heraldic shields that used to hang in the Shieldhall of Castle Black: (view spoiler) [ Hundreds of knights meant hundreds of shields. Hawks and eagles, dragons and griffins, suns and stags, wolves and wyverns, manticores, bulls, trees and flowers, harps, spears, crabs and krakens, red lions and golden lions and chequy lions, owls, lambs, maids and mermen, stallions, stars, buckets and buckles, flayed men and hanged men and burning men, axes, longswords, turtles, unicorns, bears, quills, spiders and snakes and scorpions, and a hundred other heraldic charges had adorned the Shieldhall walls, blazoned in more colors than any rainbow ever dreamed of. (hide spoiler) ] I do not like lists, GRRM. I would not like them here or there. I would not like them anywhere. I do not like lists. I do not like them, GRRM. GRRM has become so well-known for killing off characters that he made a joke of it when he (view spoiler) [introduced a brand new POV character in the prologue, spent 33 pages (on my ereader) developing the character, then killed him off at the end of the prologue. (hide spoiler) ] All of which was entirely pointless to the story. GRRM ruined two of my favorite characters. Tyrion has become a whiny obsessive with daddy issues. Danaerys went from a strong-willed, self-righteous, slaughtering conqueror to a helpless, love-torn, indecisive, ineffectual character from a Jane Austen novel. GRRM cannot seem to write a strong female character unless she's a warrior (Brienne, Ygritte, Arya). He's disturbingly focused on tits and cunny (his word). Robert Jordan's Crossroads of Twilight has often been called \"Characters Show Up\", which would be an equally appropriate title for GRRM's A Dance with Dragons . I couldn't put it down, not because it was great, but because I couldn't wait to be done with it and move on to a better book . It's sad that's the best thing I can say about it. ...more Tyrion Lannister's horse was rubbing him raw as they rode onward, the branches of the trees above them swaying in a branch-like way. Ravens flew about among them, and clouds of dust hovered like halos around the hooves of their steeds. Wiping sweat from his brow, Tyrion spoke to yet another minor character you've never seen before. \"I hear that the Morvin and the Shornpel clans have sided with Darvus Farier from the great city of Bee Eff Eee, and are pushing forward late king Baratheon's bastard Tyrion Lannister's horse was rubbing him raw as they rode onward, the branches of the trees above them swaying in a branch-like way. Ravens flew about among them, and clouds of dust hovered like halos around the hooves of their steeds. Wiping sweat from his brow, Tyrion spoke to yet another minor character you've never seen before. \"I hear that the Morvin and the Shornpel clans have sided with Darvus Farier from the great city of Bee Eff Eee, and are pushing forward late king Baratheon's bastard's scullery maid's uncle's melanoma as the true heir to the throne.\" The minor character chortled as he spooned up some of the newt egg soup. It had been spiced with cloves and the lightest touch of pepper, and leaves of cilantro floated like corpses upon its surface. Eating a side of braised elk spleen and a hunk of bread with a cheese sauce, the minor character said, \"If so, even more of the action is likely to shift away from the viewpoint characters, and THEN we'll see whether any of the characters from the first volume even make it to the final book, A Trample of Turtles. \" \"But,\" Tyrion pondered aloud, eating inch-long prawns from a trencher filled with a hot butter sauce, \"If the Starks send nine hundred of their men from the outer borders of ThatoneplaceImentionedOnce, and they move down toward the Lannister forces on Dragon's Fjord before the Lannister forces can unite with the Great Army of the Unwashed Men, perhaps they can defeat the bunjillion soldiers in the south now being ushered in the general direction of King's Landing by that one other guy. I can't remember his name. You know, the one?\" The minor character shrugged, tearing a piece from his bread bowl and dipping it into a small puddle of balsamic vinegar. \"You forget about the people beyond the wall, and the dragons in the east, and Bobbert, King Robert's mechanic. He now claims to have been conceived with the king's own cum, and thus has a claim to the throne.\" Tyrion scratched his chin. \"That does throw a new light on how convoluted things are becoming.\" They continued riding, their horses traveling gradually. More branches passed overhead. It felt as if the traveling had gone on indefinitely, and the audience was more than capable of empathizing. Tyrion munched on fresh radishes and drank a bold red wine from a skin hanging from his belt. The wine was rich, with plum flavorings and an oaky aftertaste. \"But,\" said Tyrion, suggesting another possible set of things that could happen. He made reference to an event that happened nine-hundred pages ago, but remembered it wrong, then postulated what the possible outcome could be. They rode onward. Minor Character munched on some pine nuts. SUDDENLY, SOMETHING EPIC WAS ABOUT TO HAPPEN! Chapter 2 Eudaknow An Eudongivafuck, minor noble from Shelbyville, rubbed his temple, filled with anxiety at being introduced as a new viewpoint character 9,600 pages into the series. How would he live up to the amazing characters who had come before him and died so tragically? Perhaps because he had a valid claim to the throne, Having been the barista in King Robert's favorite coffeehouse. Yeah, that was the ticket. Riding his steed/ship across the desert/glenn/ocean/alley, he traveled gradually, wondering when he would arrive. Discussing with the others upon the ship, he theorized about possible outcomes of the conflicts in Westeros, all the while eating a succulent pomegranate, red juices running down his chin like he'd just been chewing on afterbirth. SUDDENLY, SOMETHING AMAZING WAS ABOUT TO HAPPEN! Chapter 3 The titties tittied, jiggling with much breastful bosomliness. The oiled girls with Brazilian waxes down below wrestled and licked each other's areolas, but it was only to help you become immersed in a realistic depiction of the ancient world. As the breasts bosomed with titful abandon, Tyrion ate shark flank. It had been buttered, cooked for twenty minutes at 345 degrees, then drizzled with a lemon sauce and allowed to cool for five minutes. The flavor was only mildly fishy, and Tyrion burped, taking another drink of the white zinfandel before digging into the raspberry crepes with a chocolate fondu. \"But still, Measter, you must understand the possibilities of that event rely on Stannis placing all of his trust in the moody lords of the upper northwest. They are known for being fickle and not holding to their oaths, and Stannis is more likely to try and seize the Port of Skulls. Will the king's ninth bastard even survive that battle? If so, at what cost to Stannis? Plus, what happens if the Lannisters and the Starks team up, and get Batman to join them, and Stannis can only get Iron Man? What then?\" Measter laughed at the dwarf. \"That may be, dwarf. You might be short and a dwarf, but you have a mind as sharp as a blade. But you are very tiny, in case that had escaped anyone's notice. Even so, if Stannis enlists Dumbledore, Gandalf and Belgarion, he will be more than a match for the team-up of Lannister, Batman and Stark. Even if they get Rocky Balboa and Wesley Willis on their side.\" Tyrion watched the boobs. \"But what about Joshua Lyman? Because he could totally take Dumbledore, and maybe Iron Man.\" Tyrion ate a lamb gyro, thinking back to the exciting thing that happened after the last chapter ended, thinking of it in an ambiguous and incomplete way. Since it had been 100 pages since his last chapter, you had entirely forgotten what the exciting thing at the end of the chapter was anyway, so it was not much of a loss. \"Well,\" he said, \"Now that all of the titties have jiggled sufficiently, we must needs be back on the road.\" They rode their steeds along a road, hooves raising up halos of dust, the ravens flittering about in the branches and saying what words they had picked up from the conversation. \"Death!\" \"Dumbledore!\" \"Titties!\" The half-man, who was short and a dwarf, wiped the sweat from his brow. SUDDENLY. . . ...more Purchased anew, and laid it beside her bed, Conflicting thoughts flying through her head. Afraid almost to crack the covers, read the pages, What if it was the last book? \"No, More,\" she rages. What if it wasn't? How long the wait next time? Five years? Seven? Thirteen? Unlucky, even in rhyme. First I must reread all the others... refresh my brain of Snow and all his Brothers. Sansa is no smarter than I did recall. Starks should avoid other Kings Halls. Weddings never make things merry, The price too high Purchased anew, and laid it beside her bed, Conflicting thoughts flying through her head. Afraid almost to crack the covers, read the pages, What if it was the last book? \"No, More,\" she rages. What if it wasn't? How long the wait next time? Five years? Seven? Thirteen? Unlucky, even in rhyme. First I must reread all the others... refresh my brain of Snow and all his Brothers. Sansa is no smarter than I did recall. Starks should avoid other Kings Halls. Weddings never make things merry, The price too high for use of ferry. Mouse, wolf, frog, fish, crow Dragon fire will lay them low. l ...more I'm blown away that someone could write a book so long in which nothing actually happens I wrote a longer review at http://allthenominees.blogspot.com But it says pretty much the same thing. PROLOGUE He awoke to the warmth of sunlight on his face. At last the day had come. He stretched to work out the kinks in his joints and muscles and groaned at the throbbing in his head. On his nightstand lay a bottle of Dornish red, which he downed in one long swallow to clear his mind, wine dribbling down his beard and tunic. He spied the book at the corner of his room where he had hurled it, and nearly threw the bottle too as the rage resurfaced along with his senses. The book was called A Dance PROLOGUE He awoke to the warmth of sunlight on his face. At last the day had come. He stretched to work out the kinks in his joints and muscles and groaned at the throbbing in his head. On his nightstand lay a bottle of Dornish red, which he downed in one long swallow to clear his mind, wine dribbling down his beard and tunic. He spied the book at the corner of his room where he had hurled it, and nearly threw the bottle too as the rage resurfaced along with his senses. The book was called A Dance with Dragons, a book that he had vowed to write a review for to publish on Amazon.com. The ending had left him dazed and confused the night before, and he longed to leech the foulness from his blood in the form of a scathing review to warn others of the horrifying tedium that awaited them. But first... His bladder was full to burst, and he propelled himself to the privy to relieve himself of his heavy load. A steaming stream shot from his hose like the boiling vomit of a sick dragon; far more than what he had anticipated. He counted five and ten seconds gone by as he continued to shoot and spurt, and when it ended he sighed in satisfaction. He shook off the last drops and pulled up his smallclothes, mission accomplished, but what was this... His tummy rumbled. A dragon's roar erupted from his hind quarters, a sound that bellowed like the wet cheeks of thunder itself. The smell was revolting, and flakes of brown and bubbling slime oozed down his legs like gravy. \"Farts are wind.\" He chuckled, saliva running down his beard and undershirt. CHAPTER ONE He opened his refrigerator to check its contents. He was hungry, and he was not going to write his review until he was full and sated. Much and more can be done in a day, and he wasn't about to rush himself. Within were foods beyond count and description, but he was going to try anyway. Two cartons of eggs sat at the top shelf, each carton containing sixteen shells filled with delicious yolk and white. On the shelf below there were meats of every kind: ham and beef and pork, bacon and roast beef and steak, enough to make his mouth water and his stomach jiggle with hunger winds. Yogurts dominated the third shelf of at least three different brands and ten different flavors. Orange juice, apple juice, grape juice, juice of every fruit and flavor. He would not go thirsty, mayhaps. There were also cakes of cheese and chocolate and strawberry short, as well as pies of apple and custard for when he tired of cake. Winter may come, but he would not go hungry. The bottom shelves were for vegetables, cabbages and carrots, broccoli and lettuce, tomatoes and...what... \"Neeps? What the hell are neeps?\" He shrugged. He broke his fast on fried neeps and bacon, scooping them up in week old hard bread that he hollowed out and used as a trencher. He tipped the delicious soup into his mouth, bits of neep and bacon grease running down his chin and robe. When that was done he ate the trencher too, the soggy crumbs clinging to his facial hair. He mopped up the excess grease with his beard, saving it for future consumption. If there was anything he hated more than procrastination, it was wastefulness. His review was in his mind. He yearned to write it, as that was his true purpose and he despised these bothersome distractions! But first, he had to travel. Surely there was plenty of time. Much and more can be done in a day, after all. Much and more. CHAPTER FIVE The ship sailed down the river. In truth, he was not on a ship, nor was he in a river. But he had always longed to go sailing, and if he could, he would write about it incessantly and without restraint. But as of now, he drove a car, and while there was no river, there was a road, a long strip of gray asphalt that continued on to the vast horizon, leading to his destination, wherever that would be, and oh the Seven only knew when he would get there. The cement was cracked and the paint that divided it chipped and faded, mayhaps from age and use. The buildings passed by in a vague blur, but he could not pay attention to them now. He had to look ahead, or risk getting lost at sea. If I look left I am lost. Like the outstretched hand of a giant, a red light loomed before him, forcing him to stop in his tracks. There were three lights in all, red and orange and green. They played in sequence, herding the ships about like kings in an ocean court. He wanted to push on past that oppressive red god, but he knew to do so would be a one way ticket to the black cells. And the jail was dark and full of terrors. He could not afford to risk that, to be held captive for the tenth time like some onion smuggler. He had a review to write, and no time to waste. But he would get there, he assured himself. He only had to sail - drive - thrice more. But first comes the setup, and then he would put his pieces to play. CHAPTER THIRTY \"Good morning, sir. It's good to see you again!\" \"Hello, wench.\" He greeted. On the counter was an assortment of goods and food products. He had enumerated them in excruciating detail the chapter before, but he saw no reason not to do so again. Packs of lunchables were stacked like a mountain of prepared meals to lazily break his fasts on on the counter before him. Jugs of milk stood next to them, flanked by bags of cookies and crackers in varying brands and flavors. And oh R'hllord the cheese! Sliced cheese, round cheese, white cheese, blue cheese, string cheese and cream cheese. New pieces of hardbread were grouped to the side, of which he would use as trenchers when they become old and tough as rocks. And- \"That would be thirty-six fifty, sir.\", said the wench. \"What?\" \"Thirty six fifty. I rang them up while you were describing them. I like to pretend we're racing. I always win though.\" She smiled. \"Ah, I see.\" His eyes squinted at her, as if seeing her for the first time. Her hair was the color of straw and flowed past her shoulders and held in a band with a cute lion face (LANNISTER!) so as not to be obtrusive, culminating in a widow's peak at her hairline. Her eyes were like brown m&m's swimming in puddles of fresh milk. She wore a white blouse slashed with yellow with the top two buttons open. Her bosom was impressive, and on the left was a nametag. \"Darianne. Oh Darianne! How have I not noticed you before!\", he crooned. \"Um...I don't know. We see eachother everyday...you like to describe your purchases while I-\" \"Silence! Don't speak! You have awakened the dragon, and oh how he roars. I wish to sit for ten chapters straight and repeat your name! Darianne! Darianne! Darianne! And please, call me nuncle!\" Suddenly he shook his head, and his eyes focusing and his gut retracting, as if waking up from a terrible spell. \"No, I must not! I have a review to write, and these random romantic dalliances will only waste time!\" But as if succumbing to an invisible force that filled with extreme laziness, his eyes glossed over and his stomach spilled over his belt, and once again he was lost. \"Please, take me through your Myrish swamp!\" \"...\" CHAPTER 52 - 88 \"Go Giants!\" CHAPTER 89 It had been a long day, longer than the longest of books, longer than even the longest installments of the most epic of epic sagas. There had been many distractions along the way (through no fault of mine!), many foods to enumerate and much sailing - driving - to do, and he was contented to immerse himself in all of it. But the end had come at last; there was no more time for those distractions. It was time for the climax, and he must needs go with a bang. If there was actually anyone waiting, this was the moment they were waiting for. He sat in his chair, facing the computer screen, ready to write his review. The time was twelve and twenty, his cheek still stinging from the slap Darianne had given him, and his fingers flexed and ached to at last express what he felt after reading A Dance with Dragons. He glanced at the mirror hanging at his side, and for a fraction of a second he glimpsed the face of a rotund old man with a snowy white beard wearing a newsboy hat and an NFL jersey, who somehow reminded him of a greedy Santa. He shook his head. He must be weary from lack of writing. His fingers twitched over the keyboard, eyes glued forward at the screen. There was no shirking it now. The end would have to come. No more excuses. It was the end of the road. The final countdown. Duh duh DUHduh, duhduh duhduhDUH! The \"setup\" was complete, and his characters waited in place, ready to make their moves. This was the moment he had spent an entire day and one thousand figurative pages preparing for. At last the day had come. His beard smelled awful. A Dance With Dragons was... He wrote a word. ...more Spoilers Included, so skip if you feel the need... So, it's like this. You like hotdogs. Hotdogs are your favorite food. And there's a jumbo hotdog coming out on the 12th, so yay. Come the twelfth, all you get is the bread, and they say, eat that, the sausage is coming. It's so meaty, you're already salivating, dribbling on yourself in public like a fool. Munch, munch, munch. But the bread is dry... Then you come upon a sausage factory. The Jumbo Sausage factory, and you get a grand tour, up and d Spoilers Included, so skip if you feel the need... So, it's like this. You like hotdogs. Hotdogs are your favorite food. And there's a jumbo hotdog coming out on the 12th, so yay. Come the twelfth, all you get is the bread, and they say, eat that, the sausage is coming. It's so meaty, you're already salivating, dribbling on yourself in public like a fool. Munch, munch, munch. But the bread is dry... Then you come upon a sausage factory. The Jumbo Sausage factory, and you get a grand tour, up and down every aisle, seeing the ins and out of sausage world, how they grind the meat, and all the health precautions and what-not. At the end of the tour, you get a frozen ketchup packet. Half the day is gone, and you've seen the jumbo sausage showcased in the window but all you get is dry bread and a ketchup pack that promises to melt in the next five to ten years. See how long-winded, pointless and totally irrelevant that was? It don't have nothing on ADWD. I used to like Tyrion, but he spent half the book rowing down a river, and the other half wiping a man's ass. Dany, reminds me of Brionny from Shadowmarch - clothes, food, suitors galore and loving servants willing to eat a sword for her. Dragons too, for about 50 pages, but mostly just food and tokars. Jon, hopefully dead. Yes, I said it. I used to like Jon, but he turned into a wilding-lover, an idiot, and a Stannis enthusiast. He knew nothing, Jon Snow. And those three make up 90% of the book. Theon was good, until the repetitive nature of his POV became boring. BTW, Aegon is still alive, which isn't really a shocker since the whole \"There must be one more\" vision, but we see him for all of five minutes. His bodyguard, the only truly interesting POV in the series gets two chapters. They are the only people who accomplish anything, and they do the majority off-page. One Jaime chapter, which was more pointless than Tyrion's stint as a pig-riding slave, if such a level of pointlessness is possible. The two Cersei chapters read nice, but are still pointless, (we've had enough introspection from her, right? Time for the trial/axman/exile). The whole thing is one massive filler that makes AFFC look like 5 star stuff. 1000 pages plus? 90% based in Asia/Persia/Egypt/Greece/wherever the eff Meereen is supposed to be beside a cesspit. It's a literal cesspit... literally. That pale mare is going to leave its hoof prints on your soul. Raise your hand if you want the entire continent burnt to the ground! Who cares? I feel as if someone farted in my brain. And gave it the flux. Or if GRRM had the flux while he was writing this. Winds of winter though is poised to be beautiful, at least. Hopefully no more Wall, and no more Meereen, but I get a feeling we still have some \"Selmy's Round Table Rule\" to mock through. Victarion was in it, but he was on a boat too. Asha wasn't on a boat, but she was in the snow. Everybody was either in the snow, on a boat, or getting married and eating food. Even people get married in the snow. One star for Aegon, the next star for Bran and the Bloodraven cameo. A thousand eyes and one... That was nice. Imagine a morbidly obese Brad Pitt. (Upwards of 600lbs.) That's what ASOIAF is right now. It'll take one hell of a fix up to return it to its former glory. TWOW should be good, but then ADDW was supposed to be good too, right? Am I holding my breath? ...more This is the review I did for the Sunday Express. It only appeared in hardcopy so I can't link it. Since it's a national newspaper and many of the readers may never have read a fantasy book, let alone the first four in the ASOIAF series, the review is less about this book and more about the series and the author. I hope to make them the gift of a great reading experience. My rating for the book is set in the context of the alternative works of fantasy on the shelves rather than in an attempt to ra This is the review I did for the Sunday Express. It only appeared in hardcopy so I can't link it. Since it's a national newspaper and many of the readers may never have read a fantasy book, let alone the first four in the ASOIAF series, the review is less about this book and more about the series and the author. I hope to make them the gift of a great reading experience. My rating for the book is set in the context of the alternative works of fantasy on the shelves rather than in an attempt to rank this volume amongst its predecessors (I would say signficantly better than A Feast For Crows - less good than the first three, still excellent) [Sunday Express review] By the time you reach the end of George Martin\u2019s A Dance with Dragons you will be nearly two million words into A Song of Ice and Fire, a sprawling epic fantasy series that is for many readers the single most defining work in the genre for a generation. A Dance with Dragons is itself over four hundred thousand words (one thousand printed pages), not that far shy of the whole of The Lord of the Rings or War and Peace - not that literary worth is measured on weighing scales. Martin\u2019s series, starting with A Game of Thrones, has been a slow-burning phenomenon, dwarfed only by the colossus that is Harry Potter. Right now all the volumes are on the Amazon top twenty list. When A Dance With Dragons was released in hardback last month it immediately became the fastest-selling fiction hardback this year in the UK. It has probably been the most anticipated (adult) fantasy novel ever published, helped of course by the recent excellent serialisation of the first book by HBO. A significant contribution to the anticipation has been the six-year wait since the last book, a source of controversy and teeth grinding amongst the readership. Internet grumbling about the delay reached such a pitch it prompted Neil Gaiman to blog to fans: \u2018George Martin is not your bitch\u2019. Whilst the books may roll out of the printing house on a conveyor belt, the words themselves cannot simply be squeezed out of the author by mounting pressure! So, has it been worth the wait? There was a five-year wait for book four, A Feast for Crows, and many fans felt the novel didn\u2019t fulfill the promise of the first three, making the critical success of book five the focus of still more intense speculation. Martin\u2019s success stands on the simple fact that he has brought to the fantasy genre the mature skills of realism, characterisation, and observation more commonly associated with literary fiction, and married them to a vivid and endless imagination. His commercial success derives from the fact that the books are addictively enjoyable. You don\u2019t need to be a reader of fantasy to enjoy Martin\u2019s work. Martin writes primarily about people. You will have fallen in love with, or at least be fascinated by, his characters long before you see your first dragon. By that point you\u2019ll believe in the dragon because you believe in the people through whose eyes you see it. A Dance with Dragons advances the story with more purpose and scope than its predecessor, reacquainting us with favourite characters (Tyrion, Jon, Dany, and Bran) we\u2019ve not seen since A Storm of Swords (2000). The story ranges across thousands of miles from icy wastes to dusty desert, expanding the incredible diversity of Martin\u2019s world, showing stories on the small scale (Arya\u2019s training) and the grand (Daenerys\u2019 realpolitik). And although the 1000 pages meander through many lives and situations, there are hints at the ultimate convergence and conflict of disparate story threads, a slow building sense of momentum, and finally a rising tension and pace that drives us breathless to the edge of several cliffs. One quote that stuck with me is \u201cA reader lives a thousand lives before he dies. The man who never reads lives only one.\u201d And George Martin offers you a fair portion of those thousand right here. Turning the final page you can only be disappointed . . . to find it is the last, and you\u2019ll immediately want to reach for the next volume. And there maybe lies the rub. Edit - and 5 years later it's really starting to rub! ...more Martin himself describes the writing process of Feast: \u2018The last one was a bitch.\u201d and of ADWD: \u201cThis one was three bitches and a bastard\u201d. If the author had trouble writing it It\u2019s not surprising that it is also \u201cthree bitches and a bastard\u201d to read. Presumably the first 3 books were easier to write, I also found them far more enjoyable to read. I think part of my difficulty with reading ADWD is my refusal to skip anything, I never felt this urge to in the 1st 3 books. I read this today and tho Martin himself describes the writing process of Feast: \u2018The last one was a bitch.\u201d and of ADWD: \u201cThis one was three bitches and a bastard\u201d. If the author had trouble writing it It\u2019s not surprising that it is also \u201cthree bitches and a bastard\u201d to read. Presumably the first 3 books were easier to write, I also found them far more enjoyable to read. I think part of my difficulty with reading ADWD is my refusal to skip anything, I never felt this urge to in the 1st 3 books. I read this today and thought it was very applicable, in his essay \u201cThe Art of Fiction\u201d Sommerset Maughm writes: \u201cThe wise reader will get the greatest enjoyment \u2026 if he learns the useful art of skipping. A sensible person does not read a novel as a task. He is prepared to interest himself in the characters\u2026 and what happens to them, he sympathises with their troubles and is gladdened by their joys. But he knows instinctively where his interest lies and he follows it as surely as a hound follows the scent of a fox. Sometimes, through the author\u2019s failure, he loses the scent. Then he flounders about till he finds it again. He skips\u201d My interests are in Westeros, not in Mereen. I didn\u2019t feel the urge to skip in the Theon, Jon or Davos chapters. With Dany, Jon and Tyrion\u2019s character regression from the end of ASOS I have lost interest and sympathy with them. Its not a very plausible or thoroughly fleshed out setting, unlike Westeros with full family trees, coast of arms and centuries of history. As a reader I am floundering in these chapters because the author floundered in these chapters. Generally I can enjoy brilliant prose with zero plot. However Martin\u2019s excessive repetition of phrases is jarring. So to is his increasing use of inconsistent faux-medieval invented/adapted words (serjeant, neeps, needs must, nuncle) it does not make for good prose. In his 1st 3 books Martin avoided the fantasy tropes of unkillable farmboy saves the world. Now he has fallen victim of his own tropes, with comic-book like cliff-hangers at the end of every chapter and countless characters having soap-opera like resurrections. The realistic feudal medieval world of the early books is now replaced with an Orientalist flawed Eastern continent with none of the depth of the Westeros he created. Supernatural and fantasty elements are also prevalent, often as a tool for weak plot. Sadism, swearing and \"grimdark\" elements have also increased which is also in my opinion MArtin falling into his own tropes and not to the benefit of the prose or story. I have only just finished ADWD but others seemed to have finished very quickly, I suspect they skipped many Tyrion and Dany bits and probably found the whole experience more enjoyable. The Martin in the first 3 books is no longer the Martin of these last two. ADWD continues the drop in quality that came with FfC, I hope returns to enjoying writing the next 2 (or 3) so I can enjoy reading them again! ...more So, this is it. The dragons were supposed to dance, instead they barely spread their wings. And I am left thinking, this is it?!? My complaint by the way, is not about the wait itself. I think I have been waiting since 1998 for this (this was supposed to be book 3 sometime in the past). After a few years of waiting, I think I managed to ignore it (by ruthlessly ignoring almost all discussion of anything related to these books for years). Other authors take their time: Megan Whalen Turner seems to So, this is it. The dragons were supposed to dance, instead they barely spread their wings. And I am left thinking, this is it?!? My complaint by the way, is not about the wait itself. I think I have been waiting since 1998 for this (this was supposed to be book 3 sometime in the past). After a few years of waiting, I think I managed to ignore it (by ruthlessly ignoring almost all discussion of anything related to these books for years). Other authors take their time: Megan Whalen Turner seems to also take 5-6 years on each new book and that does not impair my love and appreciation for those. Dorothy Dunnett also took her own time planning and writing. My criticisms are not about the wait. (I certainly got enough other books to read while waiting). My complaint is that this series seems to have lost focus, became much slower and fragmented. We have many mysteries, prophecies pending from the first 3 books. I want to know who Jon\u00b4s parents are (for sure, I mean), or what Varys\u00b4s objectives actually are, know how this ends. And we got almost nothing. More hints, more misdirection, a few historical easter eggs for hardcore fans and many many cliffhangers for us to mull till the next book cames out (3 books wait, mininum according to the author). We are not amused. First the good news : I love this series. I love many of the characters. The writing is still awesome, sympathetic, interesting and (usually) subtle. This solves *some* riddles from the previous books and it was nice to see some characters again. But this is not as good as A Storm of Swords . It\u00b4s not even as good as A Game of Thrones . Not even close. Maybe that is inherent to the type of tale being told, it was like we were following a small pebble rolling and becoming an avalanche of grief, from AGOT to ASOS. And from then on, if you will forgive the mix of metaphors, the tale went fractal, it split and split, there are new PoV characters and motivations, all is possibilities and confusion. And the momentum seems lost, stalled for us to get to where we know (through foreshadowing and visions) we are going. And it seems like we just can not get there. 1000 pages (ok, about 960, the rest is the very useful character list) and this is it? All of it? There are two particularly annoying issues with this book which damaged my appreciation for the previous books - because those two issues were already present in the rest of the series, and I had dismissed it, excused it. I even used to be a AFFC apologist! One of these issues is the cliffhangers which have been gotten more and more frequent and annoying with each book. I am tired of PoV chapters about nothing in particular, with some flashbacks to the past and then kaboom, chapter ends with some massive revelation (that we are not told of) or even more likely, the character in apparent mortal danger (view spoiler) [ because if any reader thinks Jon is going to die dead-dead before the final book, I got a bridge I want to sell you. Or if I give you my bank account, please deposit some money there in order to receive this massive legacy from a dead dictator. Bitch, please. As if. As if. (hide spoiler) ] . This is particularly bad here, there is very little resolution in this book to anybody\u00b4s subplot. The other issue which throws my appreciation of the rest of the series into confusion is the female characters. Dear Sansa Stark, dear Catelyn Tully, I get it now, it\u00b4s not you, it\u00b4s the author . I better put this into (view spoiler) [: I think GRRM can not write a long, sustained and sympathetic female PoV, when the female is not a woman which fights (or wants to fight) with swords/axes. Not when the woman is conventionally feminine, and particularly not when maternal, romantic or sexual feelings are involved. Oh yeah, GRRM gave Dany a personality transplant. Sansa and Catelyn\u00b4s personality, feels like. Besides making Dany stupid and stubborn, over her maternal feelings for the slaves, her romantic feelings are just WTF unbelievable. I am a woman, I get why any woman/girl might fall heads over in heels in lust with a bad-for-you guy, but there is no chemistry at all, nothing compelling there. I am now considering that GRRM might just not *get* how to write romantic interest from a female PoV without turning her into a mat. (hide spoiler) ] . Now that I mention that (view spoiler) [ the whole Meereen subplot was difficult for me to read about. The omens so strong, the mistakes so obvious, so many of the details I just did not care, since it was so obvious from the start Dany had to be elsewhere. And I am really not sure what some of the new PoVs bring to the story. Barristan, yes, totally. Quentyn Martell, well do we really needed to follow his travels to get there for that to happen? We did not after all follow Barristan on his way to meet Dany (hide spoiler) ] . There are more things which bugged me : unlikely conversations between our PoVs and people in powerful positions over them which strike me a bit like plot \"as you know Bob\"s namely (view spoiler) [Roose Bolton(!) and Barbrey Dustin reminiscing with Reek about their private past, Jorah Mormont serving as tour guide up to to translating signs for his prisoner Tyrion (hide spoiler) ] . Another problem, we now see a lot more of this universe in this book. We are shown much more cleary that Westeros is just a poor backward corner of it. Why then such a focus on Westeros and its wall? And the bigger this universe seems, the more problematic its magical-length multiple years seasons seem to me. And being from the south myself, while I get that real winter is a monstrous thing, a really long, dry, summer can be a horrible thing for lands in the South - there has been no acknowledgement of that so far, no balance, though I still hope for some of that in the rest of the series. I have hope yet there will be a complete rest of the series. But I am stopping recommending it to people now. For years I have been saying, part of the fun is the wait and discussing it with other fans and reading it along with people when it cames out. But after two books which carry the story very little forward, yes, better wait till we are sure the story is completed (and not disappointingly) to wait to read it. ...more So where were the dancing dragons? This book was so bad. Not a single dragon danced once. I\u2019m so disappointed. Gosh! I may not even read the next one! You call that dancing? I\u2019m, of course, kidding. When the next book comes out I will devour it in an angry sort of way. It\u2019s been far, far, far, too long. Well, I should say \u201cif\u201d the next book comes out. But, let\u2019s not go there it is far too painful to think about. I\u2019m annoyed at the wait. I\u2019ll curse George R.R. Martin for leaving me in suspense, b So where were the dancing dragons? This book was so bad. Not a single dragon danced once. I\u2019m so disappointed. Gosh! I may not even read the next one! You call that dancing? I\u2019m, of course, kidding. When the next book comes out I will devour it in an angry sort of way. It\u2019s been far, far, far, too long. Well, I should say \u201cif\u201d the next book comes out. But, let\u2019s not go there it is far too painful to think about. I\u2019m annoyed at the wait. I\u2019ll curse George R.R. Martin for leaving me in suspense, but I\u2019ll then praise his name whilst I\u2019m reading again. Enough of that, let\u2019s talk about this book. This really wasn\u2019t Dany\u2019s finest hour. It seems like everything she has created has fallen apart in her absence. Every Queenly decision she has made has backfired on her. Her people are angry with her; they\u2019re turning against her, and she can do little to prevent it. Here resides a massive flaw within her character. She has the strength to inspire, but she does not have the wisdom to rule effectively and efficiently. Her decisions are not constant. Some are governed by mercy and empathy whereas others are guided by cold logic and revenge. There is no sense of right or wrong anymore. She doesn\u2019t know what to do. Instead of governing by an effective amount of either, she governs with a touch of both which is completely detrimental to her rule. She looks like a foolish despot. What she needs is advice, what she needs is a friend; what she needs is some with the wisdom to help guide her compassion: what she needs is Tyrion Lannister. We all know is half way to her in this book. In the show he\u2019s already there. But, I can\u2019t wait to see it happen on the page. I can\u2019t wait to see him guide her back to Westeros, join up with the reanimated Jon Snow, kick some ass and join ice with fire. Well, that\u2019s what I want to see happen. Though in reality, something much more unusual will likely happen. What I want to see feels a like lot a typical plot line; it sounds like an obvious route for this to go down. George R.R Martin likes to be unpredictable, so it will probably end with something unforeseen, which will hopefully be better. I want to be surprised in the ending despite my investment with these characters. Well, either way, I want to see Dany get the ending she deserves. I feel like she is the character who has, arguably, gone through the most; yes, all the characters have a rough time, but she has an especially rough time. She\u2019s got a lot resting on her shoulders. I\u2019m hoping she learns from her mistakes in Mereen, and uses them to benefit her possible rule is Westeros. Hopefully, she, with the help of Tyrion, will unite Westeros and destroy the Others. I did enjoy this book, and the one before it, though the plot didn\u2019t progress a great deal in either. It\u2019s quite worrying to think that this story could be concluded in two books. I mean\u2026.if it\u2019s another two like these two, where would that leave us? A Song of Ice and Fire 1. A Game of Thrones - A life chnaging five stars 2. A Clash of Kings - An Impish five stars 3. A Storm of Swords - A Lannister loving five stars 4. A Feast for Crows - A flat 3.5 stars 5. A Dance with Dragons - A convoluted four stars 6. The Winds of Winter - Will I ever read you? I think it\u2019s become far too big with unnecessary point of view characters. That\u2019s why I knocked my rating down a star; the book was very convoluted. I\u2019m hoping with the rest of the series there is a focus back onto the main characters. Well, at this point, I\u2019m hoping that this series actually gets an ending in the first place. As the years goes on it becomes less and less likely. I will be keeping my fingers crossed, waving my three headed dragon banner and wishing for Dany to finally take back what is hers. ...more This was a struggle between what I wanted to feel and what I felt. I\u2019m not going to lay false claim to being an early convert to George R.R. Martin\u2019s A Song of Ice and Fire cycle. To the contrary, up until April 17, 2011, I spent a great deal of time passively ignoring fantasy in general, and Martin in particular. (By passively ignoring, I mean I lived my daily life without ever thinking about the topic). However, on that date, HBO premiered Game of Thrones . Within three minutes, people were bei This was a struggle between what I wanted to feel and what I felt. I\u2019m not going to lay false claim to being an early convert to George R.R. Martin\u2019s A Song of Ice and Fire cycle. To the contrary, up until April 17, 2011, I spent a great deal of time passively ignoring fantasy in general, and Martin in particular. (By passively ignoring, I mean I lived my daily life without ever thinking about the topic). However, on that date, HBO premiered Game of Thrones . Within three minutes, people were being decapitated, and my interest was piqued. I bought the first book, A Game of Thrones , finished it, and waited a couple days before ordering the second, A Clash of Kings . In the interim, I stopped eating, threw other, lesser novels in the trash, and started sporting a hobo\u2019s beard. When the second book arrived, I tore into it. By the time I reached the last fifty pages, I belatedly realized I needed to order the next installment, A Storm of Swords . (At this point I still thought I could kick the habit, and go back to a world where books that didn't feature castles, swords with names, and endless wine flagons could hold my interest). There was a daylong lag between finishing Kings and receiving Swords . During that 24 hour period, I experienced intense symptoms of anxiety, agitation, and sleeplessness. In other words, I went through the same withdrawal as your garden-variety crystal meth user. By the time I started Swords , the fourth book, A Feast for Crows , was already in the mail. Thus, I had a smooth transition between book three and four, which is to say that I stopped muttering I don\u2019t want to read other books ever again every time I looked at my bookshelf. Due partially to good timing, and partially to luck, I completed Crows shortly before the release of Martin\u2019s long-awaited fifth book, A Dance With Dragons . I went to work on the release date, signed out sick at lunch, drove to Barnes & Noble, and spent the rest of the day in Westeros. All this is to say that I was excited for the release of Dragons . Indeed, when I woke up the morning of the release date, I was in a state bordering on giddy; it may be worth adding that giddiness is not a state I visit often. Of course, my excitement doesn\u2019t hold a candle to the fervor of the true fans, the ones who\u2019ve been reading Martin since he first created A Song of Ice and Fire . The first three novels came out two years apart, starting in 1996. Following Swords , in 2000, however, the gestational phase for Martin\u2019s writing turned glacial. Crows did not come out for five years, and when it did, it landed with a thud. It had grown so large that Martin split the story in half; instead of dividing things chronologically, though, he did so by character. This meant that many fan favorites \u2013 Tyrion, Jon, and Daenerys \u2013 did not appear in Crows . Even worse, Martin stated in an afterward that the next volume \u2013 Dragons \u2013 would be arriving the next year. Six years later, that was true. So it\u2019s been six years since Brienne was left hanging by the neck at the end of Crows . And it\u2019s been more than a decade since we\u2019ve spent any appreciable time with the main triumvirate of Tyrion, Jon, and Daenerys. That\u2019s a lot of years for readers thirsting to know what happens next. Though I hadn\u2019t been there from the start, I counted myself among the insatiable. I counted down the days, checked Martin\u2019s blog, and when they started coming out, I read every early review, spoilers be damned. To a one, they were positive: Glowing. Effusive. Filled with praise. Yet almost all of them also had a but . \u201cIt\u2019s a great book, but\u2026\u201d \u201cFans should be totally satisfied, but\u2026\u201d When I finally started reading, the buts were the farthest thing from my mind. I\u2019m not what you\u2019d call an overly optimistic person; still, Martin had done enough to earn my trust. It took me till page 500 before a bit of doubt crept in; I did my best to suppress that. By page 700, the doubts had turned to a dull roar. On page 913, it hit me: nothing was going to save this experience. Dragons is a disappointment. More than that, it\u2019s a Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace -like disappointment. This is a book you want to like. No, that\u2019s wrong. This is a book you want to love . I\u2019m sure plenty of readers will love it. Or they\u2019ll say they did. I\u2019m just unsure how real that love is. The alternative is bleak: a six year wait only to discover that Martin blew it; that his story has spun out of control; that despite nearly 1,000 pages, the plot doesn\u2019t move an inch. I see now why the word but kept creeping into those reviews. The plot for Dragons picks up where Swords ended and runs concurrent (at least for the first half) with Crows (in an early scene, between Samwell and Jon, we are treated to a conversation held in Crows , though this time it is told from Jon\u2019s point of view, rather than Sam). As with all the other books in this series, Dragons is told from the third-person limited point of view, through the eyes of select \u201cviewpoint characters\u201d that alternate with each chapter. Back in Thrones , there were only eight viewpoint characters, which gave you depth without scope. That is, the limited points of view allowed you to become intensely connected to the featured characters; however, many of these characters were in the same geographical area, which meant that a lot of action took place offstage, and was related through exposition. At times, it was like looking at Westeros through a keyhole. In Dragons , there are a whopping sixteen viewpoint characters. This means you get great coverage of Martin\u2019s world. He has now put boots on the ground in every corner of the Seven Kingdoms and beyond. On the other hand, there\u2019s very little chance to grow connected to some of these newer additions. For instance, characters such as Areo Hotah, Victarion Greyjoy, and Quentyn Martell flit past so quickly, they barely register an impression. Right off the bat, Martin addresses the main criticism of Crows by treating us to successive chapters on Jon, Tyrion, and Daenerys. Indeed, these three comprise the bulk of Dragons chapters and length. Unfortunately, their mere inclusion is not enough to save the day. Of these three, only Tyrion is still mobile. Long regarded as Martin\u2019s greatest creation, Tyrion retains that distinction, if only because there are no other viable contenders. Tyrion, the Imp, is the dwarf son of a rich and powerful father, whom Tyrion killed in Swords . As always, Tyrion makes his way with a slashing wit, boundless confidence, and an unflagging desire for whores and booze. Part of Tyrion\u2019s appeal \u2013 which is testament to Martin\u2019s plotting \u2013 is that Tyrion is always dynamic. In Thrones , we underestimated Tyrion, who seemed a smart-assed, half-crippled bundle of hedonistic principles. In Kings , Tyrion was given a position of power, and used it wisely, displaying martial ingenuity along with flashes of humanity. By Swords , Tyrion\u2019s power had been stripped, and he was engaged in battle of wits with his sister and father. The result is that Tyrion\u2019s character has never settled; Martin has kept him on his toes, thereby engaging our interest. That holds true in Dragons . Following his escape from King\u2019s Landing, Tyrion embarks on a journey across the Narrow Sea, to find Daenerys Targaryen. I won\u2019t get into detail about his trek, as it contains plot spoilers. Suffice it to say, beyond the surprises and reveals, there are many nice moments to Tyrion\u2019s story, including a haunting boat ride past old Volantis, and a touching companionship with Penny, a fellow dwarf. Tyrion is still brash and funny and the bearer of a slightly-skewed moral compass. That I\u2019m beginning to tire of him probably has more to do with the fact that he\u2019s an old friend, and I\u2019m overly familiar with all his tricks and quirks. (Alas, Martin\u2019s attempt to frame Tyrion\u2019s quest as a way to find his place in the world is cringingly pat). Unlike Tyrion, Jon and Daenerys are rooted in place. Jon is on the Wall, where he remains throughout the entirety of Dragons . His conflict has to do with wannabe-king Stannis Baratheon, the red priestess Melisandre, and the hordes of wildlings that Jon has to resettle south of the Wall. The problem with Jon is that he\u2019s become a dull, stuffy hypocrite, in thrall to his own perceived rectitude. Despite spending much of Storms as a traitor, riding, eating, and sleeping with the wildlings (and by sleeping with, I mean boinking), Jon is still convinced of his own rightness. Throughout Dragons , his modus operandi as Lord Commander of the Night\u2019s Watch is to stiffly inform Stannis that he is not allowed to help him; then he helps Stannis; and later, he rationalizes those actions to himself. This is repeated on a loop until the book ends. Meanwhile, Daenerys is stuck in Meereen with her army. The invasion that began with such promise in Storms has become a quagmire. While this may be a trenchant commentary on America\u2019s current military adventures in the Middle East, it creates a resounding narrative lull (about the only action in Meereen comes from the dragons, one of which gets loose and begins poaching children). Daenerys has chosen to stay in Meereen, despite all strategic advice to the contrary, because she wants to care for her people (whom she describes as \u201cchildren\u201d with queenly condescension). At a gut level, I disliked her for this stance. From the beginning of A Song of Ice and Fire , Martin has expounded on the theme of power and politics. Time and again, Martin has rewarded the purveyors of Kissingerian Realpolitik (such as Tywin Lannister) to the detriment of Stevensonian idealists (such as the late Eddard and Robb Stark). I spent much of Dragons annoyed with Daenerys for not making the tough, brutal, pragmatic choices that would allow her to win. Having given the notion a bit more thought, I realize that Daenerys actually deserves a bit of credit for having the most finely tuned moral sense of any other character. She is, after all, trying to help the poor, close the fighting pits, and free the slaves (even though Martin\u2019s other characters make such a persuasive case for slavery I got a little uncomfortable). Still, Daenerys\u2019 goodness is not a substitute for plot. As with Jon at the Wall, Daenerys\u2019 chapters are eye-glazingly cyclical: in each one, she is badgered to do something by an advisor or courtier; she gives a little ground while still holding to her principles; later, she is proven wrong; and the whole charade begins again. The other viewpoint characters are a mixed batch. The connecting theme with most of them is a desire to reach Daenerys in Meereen. The highlights include Bran, growing into his shape-shifting abilities; Arya training with the Faceless Men (and moving farther from the light); Ser Barristan Selmy at the twilight of his career, filled with regret yet still capable of kicking ass; and Cersei Lannister, who is forced to undergo an excruciatingly riveting trial by shame, which duly whet my appetite for her eventual vengeance. On the other hand, I don\u2019t care for the Greyjoys or the Martells. They were introduced too late into the series for me to have any profound connection. Moreover, their arcs and characterizations are uninspired. (There are two viewpoint characters for whom discussion would involve potential spoilers. Suffice it to say, one of these characters represents some of Martin\u2019s best work; the other embodies just the opposite). If it\u2019s not clear, my main criticism in Dragons is that nothing much happens. There is no action. It\u2019s a lot of people walking and talking and drinking and eating skewered meat. In other words, it\u2019s like a Renaissance Faire. But at least a Ren Faire has a joust. Here, in the midst of all that walking (and riding and boating) and talking, there are precious few battles, swordfights, fisticuffs or gratuitous sex scenes. I almost longed for a scene of depressingly low taste, such as the incestuous flirtation between Asha and Theon in Kings . To make matters worse, Martin (formerly a writer for The Twilight Zone ) employs a cheap serial style that only serves to emphasize how little is happening. Each individual chapter follows the same general outline, just like a serialized drama. The viewpoint character is introduced; the character has a flashback that explains what he or she has been doing lately; the current narrative thread is joined; and finally, a conflict will arise. Just as something is about to happen, Martin will end the chapter with a cliffhanger. (One chapter ends with a character drawing his sword, just as a fight is about to start). This style is a huge miscalculation. After awhile, I became resigned to the fact that nothing would ever happen until the last page. Instead of action, I\u2019d be forever plunging forward, looking for a resolution that never came (or if it came, it\u2019d be so far forward in the book that I couldn\u2019t remember the cliffhanger to begin with). To be sure, Dragons is better than Crows . The writing is more sure-handed, unlike Crows which seemed carved out by an editor. Yet there is a distinct drop-off from Swords . The descriptions aren\u2019t as fresh; the dialogue isn\u2019t as sharp; the plotting isn\u2019t as intricate. Maybe this is a function of the series\u2019 length, but cracks are beginning to show. I started to notice the clich\u00e9s, the lazy phrases, the writerly tics. For instance, in the span of two pages, Martin twice describes a character saying words that left \u201ca bitter taste\u201d in her mouth (in all my life, I\u2019ve never tasted a single word; apparently, this character feasts upon them). The dialogue, which once had a pulpy, almost Mamet-like pungency to it, has become pretty lousy. There are still some decent monologues, but the exchanges have devolved from evocative to exclamatory (and sometimes just lame; two different characters declaim that such and such a person is \u201cas useless as nipples on a breastplate\u201d). The leitmotifs, which used to be as simple and as elegant as \u201cwinter is coming,\u201d are now heavy-handed (\u201cwords are wind\u201d) or crude (\u201cwhere do whores go\u201d). Even the names have gotten worse. We used to have good, solid, muscular names, such as Bran or Ned or Robert or even the androgynous-yet-uncomplicated Jaime. Now, the reader is forced to make sense of unpronounceable collections of consonants and increasingly ridiculous aptronyms (Bloodbeard? Really?). (Anyone who doubts my qualitative critique of Martin\u2019s writing should find someone to read aloud to them from a Daenerys chapter. After a few sentences of stumbling over names and reciting exclamation-point-dotted sentences will prove my point). I don\u2019t think I\u2019m giving anything away by telling you there is a cliffhanger at the end of Dragons . By the time I got there, I didn't care at all. See, in Dragons , as in Martin\u2019s other books, major characters die. Or at least they appear to die. Back in Swords , Martin brutally killed off Catelyn and Robb Stark at the Red Wedding (and had Robb\u2019s decapitated body decorated by Robb\u2019s wolf\u2019s head). Since then, Martin has shown a preference for fake-killing his characters, tricking his readers into believing someone is dead before having that character reappear at a convenient moment. By this point, Martin has resurrected more people than Jesus. When people died in Dragons , I just shook my head and made my wagers as to when that person would show up. The biggest problem with Dragons is that it didn't fulfill what I needed it to fulfill. In other words, I set for Dragons an impossible task, and reacted with surprise when it could not complete it. Yet my expectations \u2013 and the expectations of millions of others \u2013 are part and parcel of Martin\u2019s grand enterprise. He set the bar very high for himself. It is becoming increasingly clear that he is wilting from that pressure. Instead of narrowing his story and focusing on its fundamentals, he has let the narrative explode. Instead of fine tuning plot points, he keeps throwing more plotlines into the mix. He\u2019s like some juggler who keeps adding pins to distract you from the fact that he\u2019s not wearing pants. The most damning indictment I can give Dragons is that I finished it a week after it came out, but didn't get around to the review until now. In those weeks, I have not missed it. Furthermore, I have not once thought about how long I\u2019ll have to wait until the next one. With his exceedingly long turnout time, Martin has set me up to stop caring. I don\u2019t know where I\u2019ll be in five or six or seven years (it is a terrifying prospect to behold); still, I\u2019m pretty certain that A Song of Ice and Fire won\u2019t have a special place in my heart. Too many things will have happened. By that time, Dragons will be a distant memory: a book read by a different person in a different world. If the next book gets written, I may pick it up (or have it uploaded directly into my brain, if that\u2019s how things are done in the future), but it won\u2019t be the same experience. For me, the vibrancy is gone. If I move forward with the series, it will probably be out of a sense of nostalgia. ...more Wow! Another one down! Each of these books are so incredibly long that it feels like a major accomplishment to complete them. I feel like I should get a merit badge or something. Nonetheless, this epic saga continues. While I didn't see a lot of forward movement, I appreciated the time spent with some of my favorite characters. Mr. Martin is not one to spare details, and this book is full of them. That being said, I spent a lot of time feeling lost. As if there weren't enough characters already, M Wow! Another one down! Each of these books are so incredibly long that it feels like a major accomplishment to complete them. I feel like I should get a merit badge or something. Nonetheless, this epic saga continues. While I didn't see a lot of forward movement, I appreciated the time spent with some of my favorite characters. Mr. Martin is not one to spare details, and this book is full of them. That being said, I spent a lot of time feeling lost. As if there weren't enough characters already, Mr. Martin continues to add even more side stories to this epic adventure. Maybe I'm missing something or just lack the insight to understand the workings of his brilliant mind, but I found many of these extra details to be trivial and irrelevant. I'm having enough trouble keeping the major characters straight. I certainly didn't need more added to the mix! Unlike book 4, this fifth book offers plenty of time with Dany and the dragons. This was a major plus for me, since Dany is my favorite character in the series thus far. I particularly enjoyed the way she finally embraces her dragons. I have an image in my mind of her flying through the sky on the back of her dragon that leaves me dying to get my hands on the next book. However, this book also showed the less confident side of Dany. She often struggled in her role as Queen, failing to make wise decisions. As her advisors have been whittled down, her ability to be the effective leader that she wants to be has declined. Many of the changes she implemented seemed to unravel in this book. Although, by the end of the book I had a renewed sense of optimism where Dany is concerned. 'A Dance With Dragons' also features Cersei finally getting a taste of her own medicine. She is a character that I love to hate and seeing her brought down a few pegs was long overdue. If for no other reason, I would've read this gigantic book just to see her public humiliation and degradation. It was so worth it! Tyrion also reappears in this book. He's slowly making his way to Dany...and boy does she ever need him! Although his recent life events have made him even more aware of his expendability, he continues to be highly entertaining and incredibly wise. I am curious to see where this epic adventure is heading. It seems that these worlds are about to collide and I can only hope that my favorite characters don't begin killing each other off. Now that I've finished this book, I guess I can join the wait! As a side-note, I can say that the differences between the books and the HBO series are becoming more apparent the further along the series gets. Some of the events happen out of sequence and some things are added in that haven't happened yet. However, I'm still enjoying both immensely. ...more An Initial Reaction to an Initial Reaction Chicago Tribune: \u201cWhat\u2019s A Song of Ice and Fire? It\u2019s the only fantasy series I\u2019d put on a level with J.R.R. Tolkien\u2019s The Lord of the Rings. . . . It\u2019s a fantasy series for hip, smart people, even those who don\u2019t read fantasy.\u201d ugh, SHUT THE FUCK UP, CHICAGO TRIBUNE! \"a fantasy series for hip, smart people \"...you make me want to never read this. but i won't let you influence me. fuck off, douchebags! how dare you spoil my excitement with your pretentious, An Initial Reaction to an Initial Reaction Chicago Tribune: \u201cWhat\u2019s A Song of Ice and Fire? It\u2019s the only fantasy series I\u2019d put on a level with J.R.R. Tolkien\u2019s The Lord of the Rings. . . . It\u2019s a fantasy series for hip, smart people, even those who don\u2019t read fantasy.\u201d ugh, SHUT THE FUCK UP, CHICAGO TRIBUNE! \"a fantasy series for hip, smart people \"...you make me want to never read this. but i won't let you influence me. fuck off, douchebags! how dare you spoil my excitement with your pretentious, bougie nonsense. _________________________ A Series of Progress Notes (view spoiler) [* my gosh, another fantastic Prologue. loved reading more about skinchangers. fascinating! Varamyr was an excellent and intriguing choice. but is he really dead or is he genuinely a part of that warg? and, as always, the writing itself is top notch. * i was one of the few who loved A Feast for Crows, but still... what a happy relief to know i wil be reading my favorite POVs (Tyrion, Jon Snow, Daenerys). although i will miss Arya and Brienne and Jaime. and i still miss Theon. poor, stupid Theon! * uh oh, Tyrion is in mopey, self-loathing, obsessed-with-the-past mode. well, i guess it makes sense, he did just kill his father while finding out terrible things about the loves of his life. * at long last, the death of despicable Janos Slynt. and in such a perfect way. maybe i'm bloodthirsty, but i had to read that part a couple times. ah the satisfaction. * creepy & fascinating Three-Eyed Crow tree-man. hmmm, who is he? * the return of my favorite pathetic anti-hero: Theon! much transformed. i suppose if anyone deserves some torture, it's Theon. hopefully he will learn some lessons and not get killed off in this book. i want the old Theon back, at least a glimpse of him. i need some good chuckles. * so let me get Ramsay Snow's history straight: a bastard of creepy Roose Bolton... he becomes friends with the necrophiliac Reek and together they indulged in much rape & torture... after a typical bout of rape, murder, and necrophilia, the dynamic duo are set upon; Ramsay & Reek switch clothes, and then Reek is run down & killed, except everyone thinks its Ramsay... the new 'Reek' goes into Theon Turncloak's service, goading him into switching a couple more bodies so it seems Bran & Rickon are dead... only to betray Theon with his typical evil evilness, take Winterfell, and bring home Theon as prisoner... much torture ensues for Theon, who Ramsay now dubs the new 'Reek'... Ramsay brings Theon-Reek everywhere, and is about to get hitched to some pretend-Arya so that he becomes the new Lord of Winterfell. okay, got it. what a horrible villain! i just wish he was a bit less two-dimensional. despite the fascintingly depraved history, Ramsay's father Roose is actually far more compelling and threatening a villain. * Xaro Xhoan Daxos returns, and is just as amusingly passive & fey, yet sinister. a queer sort of character. har-dee-har-har! * that sequence with Tyrion on the Shy Maid in the waters around the ruins of Chroyane, fighting off the stone men: a beautifully written and exceedingly eerie chapter. my favorite part so far. * the return of Asha, yahoo! another favorite supporting character. such admirable pluck, such tenacity, such wrong-headedness. must run in the family. and she gets her own over-the-top graphic sex scene. of course she does. Martin loves to give the Greyjoys a dirty, degrading good time when they go at it. huh * a very satisfying sequence between Davos & Wyman Manderly. it is good to see more reverberations from the Red Wedding. kill those Freys, kill 'em all! and a fascinating task for the dull but stalwart Davos. where are these cannibals? Skagos? who knows. and what is Rikon & Shaggydog & Osha doing there in the first place? i bet they fit right in. best of all... the return of Squire Wex! i don't know why i have such attachment to minor characters like the squires Wex & Podrick Payne, but i have found them to be incredibly endearing. little survivors. will Pod be back or has Stoneheart really blown her last gasket and killed a defenseless kid? i guess i won't find that out until the next book. * Melisandre gets her on POV chapter. quite a surprise. just as i've always thought, she is not a villain. she's just trying to save the world! it was interesting to get some insight on her red magic. even more interesting was to see a softer & more human side, trying to help Davos not lose another son and doing her best to gain Jon Snow's trust. but the best thing about this chapter was finding out that not only did Mance not die a craven - he didn't die at all. i had thought that that was a pretty cheap way to kill off a major supporting character, but now it appears that the supporting character that was killed off was cheap minor-league villain Rattleshirt instead. good riddance! * Daenerys' chapters are getting a little tiresome. they are well-written, of course, and rather moving. but enough already. time to get down to business and time to stop gushing whenever Daario comes to mind. * the first (and only?) set-piece of the novel thankfully belongs to Daenerys: the rather incredible chapter on the post-wedding pit fights. so many things happening at once, such great use of subtle details and hints and little character bits. and then ending with the awesome flight of Drogon & Daenerys. wonderful. somewhat makes up for all the tiresome Meereen business. * ASOIF has a good assortment of Men in the Autumn of Their Years type voices, nearly all of them fierce, honest, proud, and fair. unfortunately, they are often not that exciting. i think my favorite may be the most recent addition, Barristan Selmy. not only is he a kindly bad-ass, we get to read a lot about the pre-AGOT history of Westeros. it is all so fascinating. i would love to read a POV from poor dead Rhaegar. i would love a whole novel featuring Arthur Dayne, Sword of the Morning. * the sad & terrible end of young Quentyn Martell. poor lad. what a tragic misadventure his life turned out to be. he seemed to have inherited his father's innate integrity and dislike of needless death & violence, but none of his wily intelligence. * an exccellent epilogue. the final chapters in ASOIF always seem to feature important characters reappearing or transformed or found alive . Daenerys at the end of AGOT, unscathed from flames and cradling her newborn dragons. Bran emerging alive from the vaults at the end of ACOK. Catelyn returning as the undead Stoneheart at the end of ASOS. Jaqen H'ghar transformed into Pate the Pigboy at the end of AFFC. and now Varys returning from who knows where at the end of this novel. good news! glad to see at least a glimpse of one of my favorite characters. we get to meet some of his little birds too. and two more major players to add to the ASOIF Death List, thanks Varys! (hide spoiler) ] _________________________ An Astro-Freudian Analysis MORE SPOILERS AHEAD both the practice of Astrology and Sigmund Freud's structural model of the psyche are, in this modern world, often dismissed as existing in a fantastical version of reality. although there is an obvious gulf between the two... what of it? let us combine them into an exciting new form of analysis in order to evaluate the various characters that have sprung from the mind of George R.R. Martin, as seen within the pages of his fantasy A Dance with Dragons. born on September 20th, Martin falls under the Sun Sign Virgo. THE ID Virgo is often associated with \"the Virgin\" and as such is commonly mistaken as a sign of repressed sexuality and enforced innocence. but it is the opposite that is true: Virgo is an earth sign and is therefore actually associated with sensuality and fertility. Virgo is a sexual sign. however, Virgo is also a discriminating sign and so will often find vulgarity and selfish physicality to be negative and worthy of critique and improvement; the unrepressed pleasure principle of the Id is an aspect of the personality that must not be allowed to take precedence. Martin places his Id within his POV characters Theon and Asha Greyjoy. he alllows them unbridled ambition, overweening pride, strong physicality, and a fondness for quick violence. he gives them the nastiest of sex scenes - ones that are striking in their pornographic detail, their often uncouth language, their tendency to revel in degrading and aggressive/submissive behavior. and then he punishes them for it. in A Feast for Crows, Asha spends all of that book attempting to assert dominance over her people, to rule them; she fails and is publicly humiliated. in Dance, her appearance is more brief: she engages in an exceedingly explicit consensual faux-rape scene with her lover Qarl the Maid; immediately afterwards, her castle is captured and she is put into chains by that most repressive of characters, Stannis Baratheon. in both A Game of Thrones and A Clash of Kings, Theon's id is equally on display, as he boasts, brags, encourages warfare, invades his former home Winterfell, has various bouts of degrading sex with various women whom he then discards, and finally allows the death of two innocent children. Martin the Virgo does not allow him to remain unchastised: by the time Dance with Dragons occurs, Theon has been tortured beyond belief, broken, and turned into a sad, empty shell of a man. the Greyjoy Id is thus thoroughly chastened by the discriminating Virgo author. THE SUPEREGO a traditional Virgoan trait is to form a strong attachment to the ideal of altruism; Virgos frequently live to serve \"the greater good\". and so Virgo is often at ease within the Superego, the place of the conscience. this is not an entirely positive thing; Virgoan comfort with expressing and enacting their ideals may often make others uncomfortable. Virgos who do not restrain their tendencies towards constant altruism will often, at best, rub people the wrong way and, at worst, be easily taken advantage of by those that they hold in high regard or be held hostage to their own belief system. Martin has placed his Superego in many characters. and, surprisingly, he has then often destroyed them. Eddard Stark operated entirely from his conscience, by following his own higher ideals... and that led him to his death. Catelyn Stark followed her own misguided Superego and her throat is cut (only to be resurrected as pure Id, in the form of Lady Stoneheart). who knows what fate is in store for Barristan Selmy. the Superego is also what guides Davos Seaworth and Jon Snow. Davos' higher ideal is clearly his unwavering service to King Stannis. he will bravely follow his lord's every command, no matter the danger, no matter the cost - whether it be his freedom or even the lives of his sons (indeed, after the deaths of his four elder children, he continues to entrust another child to Stannis). Jon Snow follows his own array of Superego ideals: the code of the Black Brother, the rebuilding of the Wall's defenses at any cost, and the Saving of Wildling Lives - no matter the feelings and prejudices expressed by his fellows. in the end, his good works earn him knives in the dark. will he survive? well duh, of course he will. THE EGO the fully actualized Virgo must balance the competing goals of their Id and Superego. they must be careful not to over-indulge in the pleasures of the flesh, the joys of vengeance, even the self-absorption of the romantic heart. they must also reign in their tendency to parade both their intelligence and their overtly altruistic nature in front of others as a sort of badge of honor. a positive Virgo keeps their shit in order. the well-balanced Virgo (indeed, the well-balanced human in general) will act simultaneously from the heart, the head, and the groin... but the reality principle that is the Ego can be difficult to maintain. Martin centers this constant balancing act within his characters Daenerys and Tyrion. in A Game of Thrones, Daenerys spent most of her time attempting to balance her twin desires for Power and Love; at this early stage, her Id appeared to be strongly present, yet was often thwarted by her sensible Ego-driven nature. by the time of A Storm of Swords, her nascent Superego had risen, eventually coming to its zenith during her burning destruction of the slave trade in Astapor & Meereen. but in A Dance with Dragons, Daenerys has become the Ego personified: on the one hand, remaining in a city of horrors to follow the higher call of improving the lot of her people; on the other, indulging in her Id-driven need for a romantic/sexual relationship with the clownish Daario Naharis... both tendencies existing in careful balance. Tyrion has had a similar engagement with his balancing reality principle - often indulging in the lusts and vengeance of the Id, yet seldom straying far from his Superego's need to do the right thing , whether it be his support of Jon Snow, the design of a riding saddle for Bran, his intent to do right for his newly acquired allies, cleaning up and preparing King's Landing for war, or even saving Aegon Targaryen from the stonemen at the potential cost of his own life. it is this integration of both tendencies within one body - this constant balancing - that makes Tyrion one of the more real characters in the series. perhaps in some ways he is Martin's stand-in. he certainly has a host of classic Virgoan tendencies: overtly critical, analytical, calculating, and possessed of a dangerously sharp tongue. as a Virgo myself, i personally demonstrate these myriad - and wondrous, oh so wondrous! - traits on a regular basis, and of course, on command. _________________________ A Summary of Sorts overall, i loved the book, a typically awesome entry in the series. it is also a flawed book: overlong, filled with far too many names, ordeals that seem to go on and on. and NOTE TO MARTIN'S EDITOR: HE NEEDS TO STOP BEING SO GODDAMN REPETITIOUS WITH SOME OF HIS KEY PHRASES. FUCKIN' A, ENOUGH ALREADY! although it has a much wider canvas and a diverse range of perspectives, it was somehow less distinctive than the female-driven, almost crushingly bleak A Feast for Crows. and it features only one genuine set piece (although an amazing one): Daenerys' flight from Meereen on Drogon. but i still loved it, from beginning to end. i loved the returning POVs that i missed so much from the prior volume, and i also really enjoyed the new POVs. the Theon/Reek chapters were morbidly compelling. i always appreciate Davos' chapters (too few of them, alas) and i particularly liked his two meetings with Wyman Manderly. as Kelly says in her excellent review , much of Daenerys' (and Jon Snow's) chapters were all about the complex business of actual government, of the challenges in balancing competing needs... an admirable goal for a fantasy novel. and as Ryan mentions in his own review , Martin continues his fascinating study of Identity, of the roles and often guises that men and women are forced into - a theme that reverberates throughout nearly all of this series' major perspectives and so many supporting characters: Eddard, Sansa, Jon Snow, Maester Aemon, Bran & Brynden Rivers the Bloodraven the Three-Eyed Crow, Catelyn/Stoneheart, Arya & the Faceless Men, Theon/Reek, Barristan/Whitebeard, Tyrion and his two names, the fake Hound, the hidden Aegon, the disguised Quentyn, Varys, Jeyne Poole/fake Arya, Mance Rayder, not-a-princess Val & the switched babies, etc, etc. so yeah, despite its issues, overall i loved A Dance with Dragons, from intriguing Prologue to completely satisfying Epilogue. _________________________ An Unsettling Character _________________________ A Major Player (and Semi Major Player) DEATH LIST (view spoiler) [* Benjen Stark aka Coldhands ( in transit ) Death by Other, perhaps * Viserys Targaryen \u2714 Death by Khal Drogo's Molten Gold * Robert Baratheon \u2714 Death by Lannister Encouragement in engaging in Drunken Boaring * Eddard Stark \u2714 Death by Joffrey's Order & Ilyn's Axe * Khal Drogo \u2714 Death by Mirri's Poison & Daenerys' Pillow * Renly Baratheon \u2714 Death by Melisandre's Shadowspawn * Jeor Mormont \u2714 Death by Black Brother Treachery * Robb Stark \u2714 Death by Frey & Bolton Treachery * Catelyn Stark aka Lady Stoneheart ( in transit ) Death by Frey & Bolton Treachery * Balon Greyjoy \u2714 Death by Bridge Misadventure (at the direction of Euron Croweye?) * Joffrey Baratheon \u2714 Death by Olenna Redwyne's Poison & Littlefinger's Evil Littlemind * Oberyn Martell \u2714 Death by Gregor Clegane's Sword & Hands * Shae \u2714 Death by Tyrion's Hands * Tywin Lannister \u2714 Death by Tyrion's Crossbow * Lysa Arryn \u2714 Death by Littlefinger's Push * Beric Dondarrion \u2714 Death, Sweet Death... At Long Last! * Arys Oakheart \u2714 Death by Areo Hotah's Sword * Maester Aemon \u2714 Death by Pneumonia, at least i think that's what it was * Gregor Clegane aka Robert Strong ( in transit ) Death by Oberyn's Poisoned Blade * Janos Slynt \u2714 Death by Jon Snow's Sword * Quentyn Martell \u2714 Death by Daenerys' Dragon * Grand Maester Pycelle \u2714 Death by Varys's Crossbow * Kevan Lannister \u2714 Death by Varys's Crossbow (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more 8/27/11 Ok, no it didn't take me a month to read the book. It took me a few days. I just waited to write the review because it's one I didn't want to write. *****BELOW THAR (may) BE SPOILERS******** Ok, I'm underwhelmed. GRRM is undoubtedly a fantastic writer and the writing was superb, as always. But the god damned story is dragging. 1. Dany and her dragons will never ever ever ever ever ever ever get moving. Never ever. Never. And that's bullshit. There was no dancing with dragons. There was a 8/27/11 Ok, no it didn't take me a month to read the book. It took me a few days. I just waited to write the review because it's one I didn't want to write. *****BELOW THAR (may) BE SPOILERS******** Ok, I'm underwhelmed. GRRM is undoubtedly a fantastic writer and the writing was superb, as always. But the god damned story is dragging. 1. Dany and her dragons will never ever ever ever ever ever ever get moving. Never ever. Never. And that's bullshit. There was no dancing with dragons. There was a nice little view of dragons in a third rate zoo from a hundred yards away. 2. Everyone else, wtf? I felt like the majority of this loooooong book was filler material. Like the chips they bring you at the mexican place to hold you over until they cook the meat and cheese. I'm dreadfully disappointed. _______________________________________ 7/22/11 Yes, finally we reads the precious. ___________________________________________ 7/12/11 Update: The precious, we has it. ___________________________________________ The published date says October 28th 2010... Nobody likes a tease Georgie. Amazon did this to me way back in 08. Ah yes I fondly remember when I read the first book, I in my training bra, reaching forth into the world George R.R. Martin had created. Gasping as the epic adventure swept me away. Reeling with despair at the loss of father, home, and family. Shocked by the depravity awaiting behind a beautiful fa\u00e7ade. Torn with angst over a young life thrown away in the far reaches of the north\u2026 I was besotted with a tale, a fantasy so rich it enveloped me in it\u2019s warm embrace and held me there through it\u2019s pages. I knew nothing of deception, nothing of promises broken, but I learned quickly, yes, I learned quickly of the lies of men... especially GEORGE RR FREAKING MARTIN AKLFJAIOEU:WJEFL:ASKDJFAKLSDJI:WOEJRF :WKLEJFLSKDNFS Rage is hard to convey on a keyboard. ...more Did any of you guys watch Lost? Remember how you'd be watching a totally banal episode, and you're like \"Oh, interesting, everyone is mad at Hurley for eating ranch dressing right out of the tub, that's, gee, that's compelling , hey now do more scenes of Jack and Kate re-establishing readily apparent character conflicts and interrelationships, zzz.\" But then at the end of the episode, something totally crazy would happen, and you'd be all \"OMG IS VINCENT THE SMOKE MONSTER?\" and the music would go Did any of you guys watch Lost? Remember how you'd be watching a totally banal episode, and you're like \"Oh, interesting, everyone is mad at Hurley for eating ranch dressing right out of the tub, that's, gee, that's compelling , hey now do more scenes of Jack and Kate re-establishing readily apparent character conflicts and interrelationships, zzz.\" But then at the end of the episode, something totally crazy would happen, and you'd be all \"OMG IS VINCENT THE SMOKE MONSTER?\" and the music would go bbbbaaaaarrrRRRRRRRAAAANNNN DUMMMMM [cut to black]? Then you would have the following conversation: - Wow, did you see Lost last night? It was crazy! - Yeah? I missed it, what happened? - Well, most of it wasn't that exciting unless you are really into the characters over the mysteries... but the ending was cool! I can't wait to see what happens next. - Eh, I'll wait for the DVDs. I am not saying there was no joy to be had in following the show from week to week, mind you. I loved the intricate, gradual development of the characters and their histories (even if Kate was really lame, bouncing between the boys, there was always twisted anti-hero Ben Linus). I went nuts for the ever-more-elaborate mythology. And who doesn't like a climactic monster attack or a shocking character death? It almost didn't even matter how good a particular episode was, because it just gave you another chance to hang out in a story you loved, that fired your imagination. Even waiting for the next season was fun, to a point -- it gave you time to speculate about the plot in a way that you'd never bother to do if you could just pop in the next DVD. Too bad it had the lamest climax and denouement ever. Hope that doesn't happen to any other long-running shows I like. ...more Well, I guess we know now why Martin took so long to release this latest volume: it's a steaming mess. Forget for a moment the fact that of the many principal POV characters, only one (Jon Snow) has any discernible character arc throughout the tome's 940+ pages. Forget too that the only female POV characters (Cersei and Dany, and even Asha in her first chapter) can scarcely go two pages without pining lustily and pathetically for their male paramours. Don't trouble yourself with the chapters (Vic Well, I guess we know now why Martin took so long to release this latest volume: it's a steaming mess. Forget for a moment the fact that of the many principal POV characters, only one (Jon Snow) has any discernible character arc throughout the tome's 940+ pages. Forget too that the only female POV characters (Cersei and Dany, and even Asha in her first chapter) can scarcely go two pages without pining lustily and pathetically for their male paramours. Don't trouble yourself with the chapters (Victarion, Davos) that could have been told more effectively in three sentence flashbacks in the next installment. And sure, one storyline features a character to whom we have never been introduced (Quentyn), forced to spend dozens of pages on, only to have that character fail to be an interesting character or a consequence to the larger narrative. So what? The larger issue is this: Martin has created a wondrous, fully-realized world in which many people (including myself) are happy to spend a great deal of time. He's just forgotten that he's supposed to be advancing a story within that world. Instead he spins his wheels. Nearly all the action takes place in a far-flung city operating within an alien (and uninteresting) civilization with a unique set of moral norms, with no apparent consequences for the people with whom we've already spent four books and 4000 pages with. Some characters don't advance at all from the beginning of this book's action; worse, some characters end up back where they began several books before. It's as if J.K. Rowling decided to create a book between 4 and 5, with the great bulk of time devoted to Hermione's wanderings in Dobby's homeland instead of Hogwarts. What a misfire. ...more At the risk of getting thoroughly stomped by series fans, this was the first book where I really felt \"it was ok\" is the best I can say of it. It's wildly scattered all over the landscape of the current story, both in term of physical location and in terms of characters. There are so many new characters, new armies, new leaders, new kings, new slaves, new queens, and new vicious psychopaths that it's impossible to keep track of everyone, even if I wanted to. I know fans will say that's what the At the risk of getting thoroughly stomped by series fans, this was the first book where I really felt \"it was ok\" is the best I can say of it. It's wildly scattered all over the landscape of the current story, both in term of physical location and in terms of characters. There are so many new characters, new armies, new leaders, new kings, new slaves, new queens, and new vicious psychopaths that it's impossible to keep track of everyone, even if I wanted to. I know fans will say that's what the list of characters is for, but my *personal* attitude is that I don't like flipping back and forth in the book every time I forget who someone was four chapters ago. I feel as if the hole Martin got himself into when Danaerys chose to settle in one city rather than keep moving has expanded into a massive, unmanageable trap that it's going to be well-nigh impossible to write his way out of for any of the characters caught there. I feel the introduction of other contenders for her crown and the Iron Throne has pulled the story away from its central core and that most of this book could have been cut with no detriment to the main story at all. I feel the story's momentum has slowed to a complete crawl. Please don't yell at me for not loving the book or for questioning the series. This is my opinion, and it's the opinion of someone who's read the first four books twice. I've waded through a lot of gore, viciousness, woman-bashing, flaying, and cannibalism to get this far without a peep. (And please don't tell me there was a lot of rape in the middle ages. If that reasoning's going to be used, may I point out there weren't zombies, dragons, or White Walkers in the middle ages.) I do wonder if Mr. Martin isn't gaming the plot out, which at least would explain why it's gone so meander-y. Maybe it'll tighten up in the next book. I hope so. If it doesn't, or I lose one more character that I've been hanging on for, I am outie. ...more \u201cI rose too high, loved too hard, dared too much. I tried to grasp a star, overreached, and fell.\u201d I did it. This is the longest book I have ever read. And while I am proud of myself, I also hope it will stay that way. GRRM better not let the sequels be longer than this beast. Once again, I had a slow start. Once again, this took me more than a month. Once again, there was things I liked and disliked, chapters I enjoyed and parts where I wished neither I nor the author had such a vivid imaginatio \u201cI rose too high, loved too hard, dared too much. I tried to grasp a star, overreached, and fell.\u201d I did it. This is the longest book I have ever read. And while I am proud of myself, I also hope it will stay that way. GRRM better not let the sequels be longer than this beast. Once again, I had a slow start. Once again, this took me more than a month. Once again, there was things I liked and disliked, chapters I enjoyed and parts where I wished neither I nor the author had such a vivid imagination. Some things just better stay unsaid. POV's I liked: Jon Snow - the 998th Lord Commander has a very interesting life...or has he? Bran Stark - a bore for the first few books and now my favourite chapters Arya Stark - one of the most intruiging plots, I have no idea where this may lead Melisandre - she cloaks herself in red and mystery Cersei - always making sure King's Landing stays interesting Tyrion - the sharpest tongue and mind in pretty much everywhere POV's I have struggled with or did not care about: Areo Hotah - while I love Dorne and the Sandsnakes, Areo and the Prince are for yawns Daenerys - such a frustrating plot, especially when you've watched the show first Ser Barristan Selmy - see \"Daenerys\" Victarion Greyjoy - disgusting character with an interesting plot Theon Greyjoy - see \"Victarion\" Jaime - I hardly remember his chapters Jon Connington - not the most interesting character, but at least young Gryff is promising Davos - why would someone write chapters about such a plain boring character. And why would someone give him an interesting storyline, so that I'd actually have to read them? Quentin Martell - what is the purpose of reading this? Asha Greyjoy - Stannis paired with an Ironborn makes everything grey and cold Some chapters make me incredibly happy, others curious and others again unbearably frustrated and annoyed. But now I'm left to wonder when we will get to read ASOIAF6. However long it will take, I am still hooked. ...more The never ending game of thrones continues, and in this fifth installment things get quite out of hand. Full of deceit and wrong decisions that lead to consequences beneath a human being's capability to accept. Never a dull moment with George R. R. Martin, another masterpiece. I could talk about the plot and characters for days if I wanted to, but I'll try my best to make this review as short as possible. Kindly note that this will contain spoilers! Don't read beyond this part, unless you're a The never ending game of thrones continues, and in this fifth installment things get quite out of hand. Full of deceit and wrong decisions that lead to consequences beneath a human being's capability to accept. Never a dull moment with George R. R. Martin, another masterpiece. I could talk about the plot and characters for days if I wanted to, but I'll try my best to make this review as short as possible. Kindly note that this will contain spoilers! Don't read beyond this part, unless you're a person who actually likes reading spoilers. So after the short break of the major characters from book four: A Feast of Crows, they now return, more than ready to scar the readers in different ways possible. Tyrion Lannister!! continues to be the humorous man that he is. Right from the start of this novel, he showed humor already, with his endless rant of wanting more wine. I can't really say that he further developed, as he's already a fully developed character. There's no more space for us to like this character even more. The only possibility is that we might hate him in the next novel. Not hoping for that to happen though. For now, I don't see a bright future for the glorious imp, but you know George R. R. Martin, he has some tricks up his sleeves. Daenerys Targaryen!! I know that I'm not the only one who likes her, but I will be one of the few who will say that she has fully developed in this novel. Unlike Tyrion who has fully developed from book 1 or 2. I can't really say that she became a strong queen though. She made questionable choices, and let her heart rule her judgment. I expected better from the mother of dragons, but there's still more room to grow even further. her point-of-view in this novel was my second favorite, next to Jon Snow's. Obviously were no dull moments with Daenerys in this one. Readers, like me, wanted to know her decision in, well, everything. Be it choosing her future king, or the well being of her beloved dragons. The really exciting parts were evident in the second half of the book though. Right from when her dragon burned her, or her hair, and she rode on it and flew off. Some people believed she was dead, but she ended up deserted on an island. Then she meets Khal Jhaqo in the very end of the book (excluding the epilogue), so that's really something to look forward to! Jon Snow!!!!! Now we're talking about my favorite character of the series alongside Tyrion and Daenerys as of right now (thanks to George R. R. Martin killing my other favorite, Robb). The Lord Commander of the Night Watch. Clearly he had one of the biggest responsibilities, and he made such bad decisions. Right from the start I already feared that something bad was going to happen. Aside from easily trusting people, he also neglected Ghost. Ghost was a huge advantage to him, and clearly he didn't use him as much as he needed to. The result? Four stabs. Four f ucking stabs. And he didn't listen to Melisandre, the woman who kept warning him that something bad was going to happen. Freakin' daggers in the night! His future was foreseen, damn it Jon, next time listen to the woman. I know that Melisandre misinterpreted some information, but damn it Jon, now I think you're dead. I got mad, then got sick. I got the death hangover sickness. I didn't want any of my favorites to die anymore, but clearly I concluded without the author confirming. So I ended up hating the author till the end of the novel, but when I was reading the character/house list in the end, I saw that Jon didn't have the { } in his name, so there's hope! And I heard rumors that the author hinted that he's alive. There's hoooope! But, if he is alive, he clearly needs to get his shit together. Rely on Ghost more Jon, as he's my favorite Direwolf of the six. Reek! Yes, that supposed minor character Reek. Very amusing man, in fact, in some parts he was more amusing than Tyrion! But, at the same time, in some parts he was clearly disgusting. But hey, he is living up to his name, Reek! With the constant finger chopping and skin peeling, his chapters were very entertaining! I liked the brutality that the author's trying to slowly mix in. Who would've known that the Theon Greyjoy would end up being a wimp that was Reek? But in the end he's slowly became the old Theon Greyjoy, and I liked that. I used to like Theon Greyjoy a lot! Cersei Lannister! What an amusing woman to read about! She also became one of my favorites during book four, as the novel kind of revolved around her. Such a cruel fate to a cruel woman, truly deserving. Shaving all of her hair in her body, and marching naked was clearly a huge punishment condemned by Tommen, her son. We all know that Queen Margaery's influencing the young king. Two queens fighting, and the younger one's winning. To wrap things up, this was another amazing novel by George R. R. Martin. No, I'm not just going with the hype and saying this was one of the best novels I've read. I'm very frank about my opinion of a novel, and if I hated it, you'll hear about it. This was clearly not one of those hated novels. The length didn't bother me anymore, as I'm used to it already. Thanks to your first four gigantic novels Martin, I now read huge novels. So 5/5 stars and this has been added to my favorites list, if those were not enough to make you read this book, or this series to begin with, then something's wrong with you. Let's just hope that it doesn't take Martin forever to finish the next novel. It's only been an hour since I finished this, and I'm already yearning for more. ...more Stannis Baratheon marches on Winterfell from the Wall. Daenerys's empire is threatened from within. Tyrion finds himself enslaved. Cercei finds herself in chains. The Crow's Eye desires Daenerys for his own but so do several other would-be suitors. And Jon Snow faces dissent from his brothers of the Watch... In the latest installment of Incest and Intrigue, more of the pieces are placed on the board. Daenerys can't trust anyone. Jon Snow can't trust anyone. Iron Lords cannot trust their own broth Stannis Baratheon marches on Winterfell from the Wall. Daenerys's empire is threatened from within. Tyrion finds himself enslaved. Cercei finds herself in chains. The Crow's Eye desires Daenerys for his own but so do several other would-be suitors. And Jon Snow faces dissent from his brothers of the Watch... In the latest installment of Incest and Intrigue, more of the pieces are placed on the board. Daenerys can't trust anyone. Jon Snow can't trust anyone. Iron Lords cannot trust their own brothers. Sellswords in general cannot be trusted. In short, no one can trust anyone while the Game of Thrones is being played. This one had its share of memorable moments, both good and ill. I really like how Arya's story is developing but I don't see how it's going to tie back into things. The revelation of Young Griff's true identity was a game changer and its repercussions will be felt in the next couple books. I liked that Brienne is still alive and that Jaime Lannister chose to follow her instead of rushing to Cercei's defense. Jon Snow getting knifed on the Wall by his sworn brothers didn't sit well with me. I'm really hoping he's still alive come next book, whenever that may be. It looks like Theon is headed for redemption but I'd rather see him dead or taking the black. Bran is progressing nicely. Whatever happened to Ricken and that bastard of Robert's that isn't Gendry? And who is Cercei's new champion Robert Strong, the Mountain, perhaps? Barristan rose a couple notches in my estimation. I'm hoping he continues to draw breath in subsequent books. I honestly don't think Martin will be able to wrap things up in two more books, not with all the balls he has in the air. Plus, it would be all too easy for him to throw more players into the mix to keep the saga going indefinitely. Still, with A Song of Ice and Fire, George R.R. Martin has made an Oathbreaker out of me. I once swore I'd never get caught up in a neverending fantasy series. In fact, I believe I said I'd rather eat my own testicles. However, I'm pretty caught up in this one. Now if you'll excuse me, I'm off to join the tent city on George R.R. Martin's front lawn, to wail and gnash my teeth every night until the next book is ready. ...more 1.) A Game of Thrones \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 2.) A Clash of Kings \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 3.) A Storm of Swords \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 4.) A Feast for Crows \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 #readASOIAF Read-Along - Hosted by Riley from Riley Marie , Elizabeth from Liz Loves Literature , and Kayla from BOOKadoodles . \u2665 A Feast for Crows and A Dance with Dragons cover the same period of time, but split the characters and their points of view up. I've always chosen to read them back to back, but maybe people enjoy reading them simultaneously. If you would like to read them combined, 1.) A Game of Thrones \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 2.) A Clash of Kings \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 3.) A Storm of Swords \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 4.) A Feast for Crows \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 #readASOIAF Read-Along - Hosted by Riley from Riley Marie , Elizabeth from Liz Loves Literature , and Kayla from BOOKadoodles . \u2665 A Feast for Crows and A Dance with Dragons cover the same period of time, but split the characters and their points of view up. I've always chosen to read them back to back, but maybe people enjoy reading them simultaneously. If you would like to read them combined, here is the reading order: Link! \u201cNot all men were meant to dance with dragons.\u201d At this point in the series, five books in, it would be almost impossible to talk about this book without heavy spoilers , so please do not read any further if you have not read this book or its predecessors. Okay, so on this reread, the prologue actually blew my mind. First, we learn it's a major no-no among wargs to skin change into other humans. You know, like what Bran has been doing to Hodor. Then, we find out the character in this prologue survives his human death by warging into his wolf. This is completely foreshadowing of Jon's fate at the end of this book. I mean, Melisandre tried to warn Jon of daggers in the dark, also, but like all Starks, he doesn't listen too well. Melisandre and her past is always hard for me to read. People always view her as this sex symbol from the show, but she has such a deeper, and sadder, past in the books. One of the things I look most forward to in this series is seeing her development and what she makes of her trauma. Oh, and seeing if she ends up resurrecting Jon, like in the show. I can't wait to see how important Ghost's role really was with bringing Jon back. \u201cThe strongest trees are rooted in the dark places of the earth. Darkness will be your cloak, your shield, your mother's milk. Darkness will make you strong.\u201d Even though Melisandre is marching with Stannis and his men to see if they can defeat the Boltons so he will be one step closer to winning the throne, my favorite points of view were from Asha Greyjoy. Like, besides the fact she is a super strong woman, she represents how unfairly some people are treated just because of what gender they were born. Again, I know a lot of people read this series and deem it sexiest, but there are so many feminist themes throughout, and Asha is such a wonderful example that I can't help but root for. And Asha's conversations with Alysane Mormont, while marching with Stannis' army, just further proves the theory from A Storm of Swords , that Tormund is the father of Lyanna Mormont! Meanwhile, on the Bolton side, Ramsey is really trying to out-do Euron for my most hated ASOIAF villain. The chapters inside of Reek/ Theon's head were some of the most disturbing things I've ever read. I know Reek/Theon did some terrible things, but no one deserves the karma he has been dealt at the hand of Ramsey. \u201cWhen you have known the kiss of a flaying knife, a laugh loses all its power to hurt you.\u201d Also, if I were Jeyne Poole, Sansa's old friend, I would have been singing at the top of my lungs that I wasn't Arya, even if that meant my death, because Ramsey is that much of a sick fuck. Cersei's chapters were my favorite. Unlike Ramsey, her \"villainous ways\" make so much sense to me. Most mothers will do anything for their children, and Cersei will literally do anything. All her actions, both filled with hate or filled with love, are all because of what she thinks is best for them. There is something pretty endearing about that, and her chapters were honestly the best in this book. \u201cI am Cersei of House Lannister, a lion of the Rock, the rightful queen of these Seven Kingdoms, trueborn daughter of Tywin Lannister. And hair grows back.\u201d My favorite part of this whole book was when Cersei was reflecting upon the events that have happened recently, and was so remorseful thinking about how differently everything would have been if only Joffrey didn't kill Ned in A Game of Thrones . It is crazy to think about how one terrible and thoughtless act can ruin so many lives. It is actually pretty heartbreaking. I very much loved rereading Tyrion's point of view, again! Oh, how I missed him! I completely forgot about Penny, but re- fell in love with her, too! Penny, Tyrion, and Jorah's journey in this book sure wasn't an easy one. Especially for Jorah, even though I low-key hate book Jorah. Dany's point of view starts with her being unable to control her dragons, but ends by leaving lot of mystery to where she will end up. I know that we have an unfair advantage with the show maybe being book-cannon, but I'm really looking forward to her meeting with Tyrion in The Winds of Winter . Like, I'm really, really, really looking forward to it. And I obviously want a Stark meet-up more than anything. Bran is learning so much from the three-eyed crow, and him being a greenseer. I have always loved the children of the forest, and it was a joy reading about them again. Especially Leaf <3. I'll be honest, for some reason I wasn't enjoying this book as much as the previous four. I'm not sure if I just burnt myself out on ASOIAF by rereading a book a month or what, but I felt more determination to finish than enjoyment while reading. Obviously this series is in a league of its own, and deserves five stars because of the masterpiece that it is, but I'm happy to now tunnel my enjoyment into waiting for the release of The Winds of Winter . \u201cA reader lives a thousand lives before he dies. The man who never reads lives only one.\u201d Blog | Twitter | Tumblr | Instagram | Youtube | Twitch ...more I don't know how to objectively review this book. I first found Westeros in high school--sophmore year, to be exact. I'd had A Game of Thrones for months, maybe a year. I think it was a present. I kept opening it, reading a few pages, and bouncing off. And then one day I was bored and didn't have anything better to read and I finally forced my way through the prologue (which I still hate, and skip on rereads) and fell head-first into the book. When I came up for air, I demanded my parents take me I don't know how to objectively review this book. I first found Westeros in high school--sophmore year, to be exact. I'd had A Game of Thrones for months, maybe a year. I think it was a present. I kept opening it, reading a few pages, and bouncing off. And then one day I was bored and didn't have anything better to read and I finally forced my way through the prologue (which I still hate, and skip on rereads) and fell head-first into the book. When I came up for air, I demanded my parents take me to the bookstore so I could buy A Clash of Kings , even though it was only out in hardcover and I was young and broke. I needed to know what was next. I'd never found books that so perfectly combined hard-edged politics with an air of the numinous. But it was more than that--I needed to spend more time in this world, with its history and mythology and people and landscapes and food. There's a picture of me reading Clash in my high school yearbook, hunched over on the school bus and oblivious to everything and everyone, including the camera flash. When A Storm of Swords came out, I ordered it from amazon.uk rather than wait an extra three months for the U.S. release. I did the same for A Feast for Crows , even though the difference was a mere three weeks. There's no question I would have done the same for A Dance with Dragons , if the option had been available. It doesn't matter that I find many of the characters objectionable, and not just the villains but also the heroes. (Die in a fire, Tyrion.) It doesn't matter that the Orientalist descriptions of Essos send my eyebrows crawling up to my hairline. It doesn't matter that the sex scenes are cringe-inducing and that all the female characters are written through a male gaze. It doesn't matter that Martin desperately, desperately needs a better line editor--or to listen to the one he has and avoid using the same phrase ten or twenty times in a single book. All that matters is that Westeros is home, and I will always be grateful to return to it. Even a week after finishing, I don't know what to say about Dance . Parts of it dragged (Dany). Parts of it flew all too quickly (Davos). Parts of it were deeply satisfying (Theon), and parts of it were enraging (Tyrion). All of it made an impression. All of it stirred a reaction. Was it a good book? Hard question, because it isn't a book. It's part 5 of X of the ongoing Book of Westeros, and it pretends even less than the previous volumes to have a contained storyline, to have a beginning and a middle and an end. I think it could have improved on that aspect; I am sorry it was rushed to press so quickly, because I think better editing could have produced a better-shaped book, with less repetition and more sense of emotional climax. (I don't necessarily think it needed more battles . Theon's final scene, Jon's, Dany's--those were all climaxes, even if they weren't filled with fire and blood. Even Cersei, to an extent. And I'm okay leaving Bran and Arya mid-training. But I thought the ends to Tyrion's, Victarion's, and Jaime's stories were bizarrely abrupt.) I still think it was a worthy addition to the series. But oh, god, the line editing. By the end of Dance , the \"much and more,\" \"little and less,\" \"words are wind,\" \"he was not wrong,\" and wroth/wrath confusion were so grating, and so prevalent, that I was stopping every two or three pages to close my eyes and cringe. I can forgive a lot--the racism, the misogyny, the endless meandering travelogues--as long as I'm allowed to sink into the world of Westeros. Redundant prose is like a hand constantly jerking me back to the surface. Please. Please. Be better in the next book. ...more Three and a half stars. There are currently over 3000 reviews of this book on this here website here. Adding another one would be like spitting into the Delaware River. So here goes. Like the previous entry in the series, A Feast for Crows, there are too many POV chapters from characters I don\u2019t care about, uninteresting subplots that go nowhere, too much bloat. I read A Game of Thrones in about a week; this book took me over a month, and it seemed like forever. Am I going to read, The Winds of Wi Three and a half stars. There are currently over 3000 reviews of this book on this here website here. Adding another one would be like spitting into the Delaware River. So here goes. Like the previous entry in the series, A Feast for Crows, there are too many POV chapters from characters I don\u2019t care about, uninteresting subplots that go nowhere, too much bloat. I read A Game of Thrones in about a week; this book took me over a month, and it seemed like forever. Am I going to read, The Winds of Winter? Sure. Once on the Westeros Express, it\u2019s hard to get off. Favorite character \u2013 Tyrion, the Imp himself. The character that has seen more of Martin\u2019s universe than anyone else. Martin\u2019s ersatz version of Candide. Whereas Candide always felt that no matter what, \u201call was for the best in the best of all possible worlds\u201d. With Tyrion, it\u2019s - the world is a cesspool and anything that can go wrong, will go wrong. Yet, no matter what bad things he has done or have been done to him, he still tries to maintain his humanity. Plus, he\u2019s funny as hell. Characters that are two sides of the same coin - Jon Snow and Daenarys. It\u2019s obvious why Martin kept these two character chapters back to back. Each was dealing with the reins of power in their own way. Daenarys as Queen was the more believable of the two. She was driven by her heart and by her need to do what\u2019s best for her city. She had advisors that she made use of. What she did and how she did it made sense in Martin\u2019s world. As for Jon Snow, what knowledge base was he drawing his decisions from? Did he have a copy of Lord Commander of the Wall for Dummies that he referenced? He acted like he\u2019d been doing the job for years. Wasn\u2019t he like 14 or something? Character I would have loved to take to the prom \u2013 Asha Greyjoy Character I did take to the prom \u2013 Brienne of Tarth Character I would ask to help me move \u2013 (a tie) Hodor, Wun Wun. Ah, Hodor, be a good fellow and put the refrigerator over there. Wun Wun, careful with that grand piano, lad. Character who deserves a punch in the face (if not more than that) \u2013 Theon, Reek, or whatever clever chapter heading Martin came up for him. Beyond annoying. Character that should have a big flaming bag of dragon poo dropped off at his castle door \u2013 Stannis. What a wet blanket. Character I\u2019d like to grab a beer with \u2013 Tormund Giantsbane, he\u2019s fun, would have lots of cool stories and drink me under the table. One of the spearwives could be the designated driver. Sea faring character that put Bluto to shame \u2013 Victarion Greyjoy. Dude, harsh. ...more Basically I LOVE THIS BOOK AND I HATE THAT I LOVE IT SO MUCH BECAUSE AFJDKALDADSAD MY LIFE IS RUINED. Yup. That is my entire review, right there. You can go now. BH AH AHA HA HAh ah haha. *breaks down in tears* I have no idea how to review BUT I WILL SAY MORE THINGS!! Because I have things to say. I don't love everything about this series, but I do love it. I mean, it has stuff that makes me really angry and I'm 10000% sure it has a lot of unnecessary sex and rape and violence. But the world bui Basically I LOVE THIS BOOK AND I HATE THAT I LOVE IT SO MUCH BECAUSE AFJDKALDADSAD MY LIFE IS RUINED. Yup. That is my entire review, right there. You can go now. BH AH AHA HA HAh ah haha. *breaks down in tears* I have no idea how to review BUT I WILL SAY MORE THINGS!! Because I have things to say. I don't love everything about this series, but I do love it. I mean, it has stuff that makes me really angry and I'm 10000% sure it has a lot of unnecessary sex and rape and violence. But the world building is incredible and I really care about SO many characters. I even care about characters I should hate. SO THERE'S THAT. I literally put off reading it it because I knew it was the last book!! I burned through all 5 in ONE YEAR. All on audio too. #bestdecisionever NOW WHAT DO I DO WHAT MY LIFE????? MY FANDOM IS OVER UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE LET ME SOB. Okay, but let me review first. And you can see my review of A Feast of Crows if you're so inclined. My main problem with the last book is we only saw what HALF the cast was doing. SO NOW WE GET THE OTHER HALF!! YAYAYYAY. Basically, my baby Jon Snow. <3 And also Bran, Tyrion, Theon, Daenerys, Bariston Sellme, Asha and....others. I'll get to them in a moment. In fact, I'll go through ALL the narrators because that's the easiest way to shriek. \u2022 Jon Snow: WHO IS MY FAVOURITE CHARACTER OF EVER, OMG HIM AND HIS ADORABLE HAIR. <3333 THE DARLING. Ahem. Although Jon makes a LOT of crappy decisions in this book. I get that he's fighting for humanity of the Wildlings and I love him for that. BUT. He is a jerk to his old friends and basically allienates himself. And I also get that he's suddenly Lord commander so soooooo much responsibility. BUT HE WENT FROM LIKE 16 TO 64. Maybe it's realistic? But the dude is 16 (or 17?) and never acted like it. BUT STILL JON, DARLING. (view spoiler) [I AM STILL SOBBING AND WILL NEVER BE OKAY AND I'D LIKE TO BELIEVE GRRM WILL BRING HIM BACK BUT BAH. I don't think he will. I feel like Jon's death was frustrating because it was pointless. And these books are like FULL of pointless deaths because it's believable...but. Like Eddard's death set off this catalyst, same as Tywin's and Joffery's and like a million other people. I guess Jon's could set off something?? But there's no one left in his story line that we care about. (Well, that I care about.) So I feel like the wall story just DIED with Jon which is DUMB. BRING JON SNOW BAAAAAAACK. (hide spoiler) ] \u2022 Tyrion: I also permanently love and adore Tyrion. I HATED PENNY THO OMG. She's a dwarf and is added into his plot line and she. is. so. irritating. I felt like she backfired like 90% of what Tyrion stood for. Tyrion is a dwarf and has disabilities and his culture wants to ridicule him for it and he fights that. But then suddenly in this book...he's being the jester, the butt of the jokes, just to please Penny who he feels no physical attraction for???? LIKE WUT. I know these books are all about stretching characters to their limits, but I don't like it when books kind of stop making sense in order to be painful. ANYWAY. All Penny did in Tyrion's chapters was sob and whine and whinge and OMG LET THE WOMAN JUST SHUT UP OR DIE. But the annoying ones always live. Grrrrrrrrr. Tyrion though was as sassy and wonderful as ever and I love how nothing could really break him and his smartness and AGHHHHHHH. TYRION....he's probably going to die next isn't he. -_- \u2022 Daenerys: at the beginning. ARGH. I wanted to slap her. She is like setting up to marry the wrong person and everything is dumb and wrong and she locks up her dragons and I CRIED A LOT AND JUST CRIED, OKAY!??! Let all the characters die, pfft. Who cares. HOW DARE DANY LOCK UP HER DRAGONS OMG. I ship her with Daario SO SO HARD I CANNOT EVEN. He is everything for her. Down with logic. MARRY HIM, DANY. <3 But as frustrating as Dany's chapters were for the first 50%...they quickly grew intensely awesome. I loved her climax. So much mystery and questions. \u2022 Theon: I've like whinged obsessively about how much I HATE Theon for so long...and now I don't hate him. YEAH YEAH, SAY \"I TOLD YOU SO\". But I don't forgive him either. I'm just glad he's finally doing something. \u2022 Quentyn: I think his name could be replaced with \"damp piece of useless asparagus\" and he about has the same capabilities. Agh he was boring and pathetic and watery. And deluded. (view spoiler) [ I was exactly not surprise when he got fried by a dragon...although it lead me to believe all his chapters were POINTLESS. (hide spoiler) ] \u2022 Davos: Davos. You still are so boring. \u2022 Barristan Selmy: KNIGHT GRANDFATHER. <3 HOW I LOVE HIM. He is old and loyal and wise and smart and STILL WICKED GOOD WTIH HIS BLADE. I adore this dude and his chapters were epic. His dedication to Dany is everything. \u2022 Asha Greyjoy: I liked her chapters except they always were about waaalking or dyyyyying or suuuuurviving barely and not much every happened and then when something WAS going to happen...the chapter ended. Great for cliffhangers. But otherwise. Um.... \u2022 Bran: OH look, Bran is living in a tree and accomplishing nothing. How fascinating. \u2022 Jon Connington: I am mad because this guy exists with Jon's name and Jon is everything while Jon Connington is nothing. I don't like him. I don't like anyone supporting the Not-Dany guy because. No. \u2022 Cersei: I didn't expect her in this book! YAY PLEASANT SURPRISE. YES I DID JUST SAY PLEASANT . Not a typo. I don't love Cersei, but she's interesting. And what's more interesting is the fact that Twyin was all \"you're not as smart as you think you are\" and unfortunately it was true. Boo. BUT STILL. No one should've had to endure what she did. It was like waaaaaay awful. I hope she gets revenge. \u2022 Victarion Greyjoy: I FRIKKIN HATE THIS DUDE AND HIS BORINGNESS. It's like \"let's not have a chapter by an interesting guy! Let's watch Victarion rape people and kill people and be a calm brute\". No. Drown, Victarion. \u2022 Arya: I love Arya, but her chapters frustrate me too...(Gawsh, I am frustrated a lot, aren't I?) But just because I don't understand why she's so insistent to get into this cult and serve this weird god. Like, whyyy??? I know her family is dead and that kinda sucks. But surely she could become like a cool swords person or something EPIC instead spreading her life selling fish and learning secrets for this cult. I wanted to see Arya grow up badass. But she's not. \u2022 Areo Hotah: I don't even remember who this dude is, tbh. His name sounds like an awkward oreo. \u2022 Jaime: As much as I hate how Cersei treated him in the end...I AM STILL MAD THAT HE DIDN'T GO TO HER. Family is forever, dude. Also I think he ran off with Brienne?!?!? She's probably luring him in a trap to kill him but WHO KNOWS. I LOVE THEM. SHIP THEM. GO DIE TOGETHER LITTLE DOVES. (I bet Pod is dead but we don't know. *whimpers*) \u2022 Melisandre: Hmm. No. \u2022 Kevan Lannister: he gets the epilogue which has a very SURPRISING AND AWESOME plot twist that makes me desperately want The Winds of Winter, but let's face it: everything makes me want that next book. AND I DON'T HAVE IT DARN IT. But I basically knew, as soon as the audio book croaked the word epilogue that (view spoiler) [someone would die. Bye by Kevan. (hide spoiler) ] ....and the rest of the book? HAHA I DON'T EVEN REMEMBER IT. I've been reading this beast for two months!! I have sooo much feels and emotions and every time I dive into the book I feel totally immersed in the world. I love the details and the cultures. I haaaate all the sexism. Like it makes me want to puke. And, like I say for every book, there is TOO much rape and torture to be a good read. It gets over into the sadism areas. But I have so many ships. And I'm so passionate about my little characters and...I JUST LIKE BIG FANTASY WORLDS WITH DETAILS. It's probably my favourite epic fantasy series of ever. Probably. I may find more but for now...dude. Likee. OH and a quick word on the audio book: it's rubbish. The first 3 were BRILLIANT, but the narrator appears to just have lost the plot. (Very punny.) He mixes up ALL the accents. In fact, he'll start a character talking with the wrong accent and, in the middle, just switch to the right one. I can't even imagine paying money for this and having that sort of quality. (I libraried it.) It's not acceptable. And sure. There are a lot of characters. But he could refresh himself with the older audios and who had what accent, right?!?! In the end, Cersei had TYRION'S accent for goodness sakes. And Tyrion and Jon were the only ones he ever kept straight. Dany ended up sounding like Arya. And the pronunciations were up the creek and blahhhh. BUT THAT SAYING. I personally needed the audio because if I'd read it myself I would've NEVER kept all the details together. It's annoying as an audio because it's not consistent with the first ones. But it's mostly okay...I guess . SO BASICALLY ME RIGHT NOW EQUALS A PILE OF NEGLECTED GLOOP. BECAUSE I AM SAD. Not such a wreck as normal when I finish a ASOIAF book though so I think I'm getting old and cold and callous? BUT waaaaaail with me because I CAN'T BELIEVE ONE OF MY FAVOURITE CHARACTERS IS DEAD. I HAVE LOST THE ABILITY TO EVEN RIGHT NOW. I WILL NOT BE OKAY. NOT EVER. NO ONE TALK TO ME< OMG. I love this series and I hate that I love it. IF THAT EVEN MAKES SENSE. Now what do I do with my life????? Get the colouring in book and just scribble over it in red crayon and sob????? [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more So far, A Dance with Dragons was the best in the series after A Storm of Swords . I need to know what happens next! It is hard to put into words what this series has meant to me. It takes me away to another place and time. My favorite characters are a part of me and I can almost feel everything they go through. Martin is a master at his craft, there is no doubt. Fantasy fans everywhere can agree on that. What amazes me most is his ability of getting me to, sometimes, worry about a character which So far, A Dance with Dragons was the best in the series after A Storm of Swords . I need to know what happens next! It is hard to put into words what this series has meant to me. It takes me away to another place and time. My favorite characters are a part of me and I can almost feel everything they go through. Martin is a master at his craft, there is no doubt. Fantasy fans everywhere can agree on that. What amazes me most is his ability of getting me to, sometimes, worry about a character which I could never picture myself caring about. For instance: the Kingslayer. Even after his actions in the first book, I came to like him very much after reading this one. I never thought in a million years that I would feel even the slightest bit of compassion towards that man. So, if that is not character development at its best, I don't know what is. This book blew me away. There are so many moments where you find yourself wide-eyed and open-mouthed at the information that is being revealed. Plus, I missed my favorite characters - Daenerys, Bram, John, Tyrion - so much, due to their absence on A Feast for Crows that the sheer fact of reading anything coming from them again was enough to have me on my toes. As always, there was a bunch of new characters introduced, but this time I didn't find anything special about most of them. I think I am kind of creating a barrier regarding new characters on this series; relating to them is taking much more effort than before. Maybe I just like the old ones to much. Maybe when they are ruthlessly taken away from me die I will forcibly learn to like the new ones too. Overall, I really enjoyed reading this book. I found it better than A Feast for Crows mostly because here we actually were shown what was happening around the world by the points of view of the characters. That style of presenting facts through random, boring dialogues that was used on the fourth book was really disappointing. Comparing A Dance with Dragons with the third book, though, I don't know which would win. While here we had greater character development, I found the general plot covered by A Storm of Swords slightly more exciting. Anyway, if you are truly a fan on the genre and have not picked these up yet, you should read them. The fifth, the third... all of them! They are really good. Interesting quotes that I didn't include in the review: A reader lives a thousand lives before he dies, said Jojen. The man who never reads lives only one. ...more Ok so I loved the first 3 books in this series, loved them.A Feast for Crows was a bit disappointing, but A Feast for Crows was a different format and was considered one half of a finished product. So A Dance With Dragons is the other half to make that this installment complete, but they never feel complete you need the next one right away because this George R.R. Martin bastard has created these characters that we love and we want to find out what happens to them. I kid,I kid, I love George Mar Ok so I loved the first 3 books in this series, loved them.A Feast for Crows was a bit disappointing, but A Feast for Crows was a different format and was considered one half of a finished product. So A Dance With Dragons is the other half to make that this installment complete, but they never feel complete you need the next one right away because this George R.R. Martin bastard has created these characters that we love and we want to find out what happens to them. I kid,I kid, I love George Martin, I just wanted more. There are new characters that I don't care too much about and when all said and done some meant little to the story, many of the unlikable characters are POV in this one, like Cersai and Theon, I fucking hate Theon! Theon is bad and not good bad like some people I know........ Just bad bad. You know turning your back on your trusted friend, killing innocent children and well those are the worst right there so I wont get into it. Theon is now having a rough go of it and I am not loving where this is going, who do we cheer for? Theon? Or the despicable psycho who is holding him? Well who? I don't want to cheer for Theon but he seems better then Ramsay.... but who isn't? So that pisses me off because I don't want to hope for him, I want to punch him in the face. I'm sure you see my dilemma. I had missed Tyrion, so brilliant and funny,less funny now that it's all gone down the shitter, but still his chapters are enjoyable. I cannot tell you how much I missed Daenerys in AFFC, my Khaleesi, and Khaleesi has a lot on her plate and some could be interesting, but most of the time is spent daydreaming about Daario who seems to be the most unattractive person inside and out always wanting to kill everyone,off with their heads and out with their entrails. I know what your thinking, yes I find Sandor Clegane very sexy,but he is a rugged strong guy who protects an innocent girl,who could blame my ladywood ?Who ? Daario on the other hand \"The captain wore striped pantaloons tucked into high boots of purple leather, a white silk shirt, a vest of golden rings. His trident beard was purple, his flamboyant mustachios gold, his long curls equal parts of both.\" I was going to try to find a picture for this but all I could think to put into Google was \"Skittle clown pirate\" and there are some things you can't unsee so I went with no pic. It does not need to be said but this did nothing for me but he melted Daenerys into a puddle with one twitch of an eyebrow.....gross. I sort of think George is a genius, he ends things in such cliffhangers that we are so grateful to find out anything that we will give him our money even if it took him over 5 years to get things done. Are they paying him by the hour?? Get on it man. There is a cliffhanger regarding our Jon Snow and when I realized I would have to wait for the next book I was irate. Like seriously!!! I mean ...more I find it strange that people have already rated this book. Holy crap, I was starting to think I was never going to finish! So here we mostly get the continuation of the Jon Snow, Tyrion and Daenerys stories. Oh yeah, and fucking Bran the Boring, too. Aside from him, all the others are favorites, so A Dance with Dragons was a pleasure to read. That doesn't mean it's a great book though. It drags a good deal. It lacks the surprise and epicness of the first three books. A lot of this one and A Feast For Crows felt like housekeeping. I shouldn't differentiate Holy crap, I was starting to think I was never going to finish! So here we mostly get the continuation of the Jon Snow, Tyrion and Daenerys stories. Oh yeah, and fucking Bran the Boring, too. Aside from him, all the others are favorites, so A Dance with Dragons was a pleasure to read. That doesn't mean it's a great book though. It drags a good deal. It lacks the surprise and epicness of the first three books. A lot of this one and A Feast For Crows felt like housekeeping. I shouldn't differentiate between those two books. They were both meant to be one, and it's obvious when you read them and see that half the GoT characters are dealt with in book #4 and the others get their due in #5. Tipping the wide-load scales at over a thousand pages a piece, it's readily apparent why the books were split in two. Even so, the reader can't help but feel like something's missing while going through each separately. That's a looong time to put characters on hold in your mind. I feel bad for fans who read Feast back when it came out, what 10 years ago? But what's here for us in Dance is some good, solid reading. There are slight surprises and unexpected turns here and there. It's a slow-burn page turner, not an up-all-night-cuz-you-can't-stop scorcher. Before I finish I should like to clarify one thing after bagging on the poor boy earlier. For many a book I've suffered through the insufferable Bran story. Not since the beginning of the first book have I found him remotely interesting. But finally something intriguing does develop in this storyline, eventually. It ties up a loose end elsewhere while adding color to the crippled boy's tale. For that, I'm glad I read A Dance with Dragons . ...more<---C>Brandon Stark</---C>", "Title": "A Dance with Dragons"},
