{"Comments": "I haven't read <---A>Dean Koontz</---A> in years, and I wanted to see if I'd made a hasty judgment about him being not so good. He wrote a book called \"Lightning\" that I liked,<---M> but others I read were</---M>, as they say, \"Meh.\" I picked up this book and the next in the series, \"Forever Odd,\" and thought \"sure, why not?\" Let me answer that question for you: Dean Koontz' 20 year old I-see-dead-people fry cook character reads like a 20 year old written by a 50-something year old that assumes he can write a believable 20 I haven't read Dean Koontz in years, and I wanted to see if I'd made a hasty judgment about him being not so good. He wrote a book called \"Lightning\" that I liked, but others I read were, as they say, \"Meh.\" I picked up this book and the next in the series, \"Forever Odd,\" and thought \"sure, why not?\" Let me answer that question for you: Dean Koontz' 20 year old I-see-dead-people fry cook character reads like a 20 year old written by a 50-something year old that assumes he can write a believable 20 year old character. Obviously it can be done well by many, but it doesn't work here. 20 yr. olds don't talk like this, they don't think like this, and the last time I met a 20 yr. old male that was vice free and often thought to himself that he'd have fit better in the 1950s---and is a virgin---AND wasn't Mormon was...<---F>well, I'm still waiting</---F>. Sure, one of those factors is easy enough to find, but the combination is rare enough to give one pause. Do you like books that end at least 15 chapters with a \"something bad was on it's way,\" or \"I could feel the danger drawing near,\" or \"Oh my God, things are about to get terrifying!\" sort of sentence? Well, this book is up your alley, because about 70% of it feels like that ghost story you heard at camp that took hours and ended up being a kitten trapped in the closet and you wanted to poke the kid who told it but he was the Scout Master's son so you just walked off and cursed under your breath. That's not a spoiler. It's not a kitten that ultimately shows up to let loose the horrors---but that would have been better than what does come. Do you like books that feature a morbidly obese best friend/mentor character, and every scene with that character reads like \"You are my friend, but your weight worries me, and I care about you so stop being fat, please.\" And the friend says \"I am glad a fat guy like me can have a friend like you, being as fat as I am---and hey, watch out for my cat, he's fat as well.\" If so, then this book is for you! Every scene---and it's not just fat characters---reads like judgment, which gets annoying fast. Do you like books that inexplicably feature the ghost of Elvis, and the only music that people listen to are songs by, you guessed it, Elvis! And you get to learn lots of trivia about the King, because one of the main characters is obsessed with him. Yep. 20 yr. olds listen to Elvis all day, don't they? And though this has nothing to do with Koontz' writing, it bugs me nonetheless: I don't like the fact that I have to pretend when looking at Koontz' author photo where he sports a thick brown mop of hair that when I read him in the 80s he looked like Dr. Phil. Maybe not that bald, but balder than now, that's for sure. I don't like that I'm supposed to just pretend that this new thick hair is real. The fiction has to stop somewhere, doesn't it? I think so. That just bugs me a little... I'd write more, but why, really? I may be a bit more harsh than usual, but I just read 2 of these back to back, and am not going to follow Odd to go live in a monastery for the 3rd book, or wherever else he goes in the 4th that's out now. I'm a firm believer in the idea that you have to read the bad with the good in order to appreciate the talent of the writers you love. Koontz isn't a horrible writer, it's just not good, and it's really just not for me. Clearly he's doing ok, and sells books like crazy, so I don't think he'll be worried that I'm not riding in his bandwagon. And honestly, more power to him. This may be somebody's favorite book, and that's great, that's the beauty of books---we don't all have to like the same thing. That said, we're probably much more likely to get along well if this isn't in your top 100. That's all. Two books. One star. A: ...more Hooray for <---C>Odd Thomas</---C>! That\u2019s really his name, by the way. Dean Koontz has made a winner with this 2003 publication that spawned ten other works (<---B>as of 2015</---B>) and a 2013 film. First of all, Koontz crafted in Odd a very likeable hero. Notice I did not use the term protagonist, as Odd is a real hero, doing what is right, having fun with it, and being an all around great guy. Odd\u2019s heroism is emphasized by his comparison to his thoroughly unlikeable and completely unsympathetic parents. By showing us O Hooray for <+++>Odd Thomas</+++>! That\u2019s really his name, by the way. Dean Koontz has made a winner with this 2003 publication that spawned ten other works (as of 2015) and a 2013 film. First of all, Koontz crafted in Odd a very likeable hero. Notice I did not use the term protagonist, as Odd is a real hero, doing what is right, having fun with it, and being an all around great guy. Odd\u2019s heroism is emphasized by his comparison to his thoroughly unlikeable and completely unsympathetic parents. By showing us Odd\u2019s parents, Koontz also adds depth and character to the already interesting storyline. And he sees dead people. Odd also sees what he calls bodachs. These are wolfish, shadowy creatures of unknown origin that might be demons, or they might be something else. Koontz\u2019 creation of these beings allows him to maximize the creepy factor of this horror / thriller / paranormal thoroughly unique and way cool narrative. The Bodachs also allow a furtherance of Koontz\u2019 brilliant use of foreshadowing. In one respect, the shade-like bodachs may be the literary embodiment of foreshadowing and Koontz even allows a brief description of the beasts that suggests this. Odd also has a sixth sense, what he calls psychic magnetism that allows him a fun perspective on all the supernatural shenanigans going on. Finally, <+++>Odd Thomas</+++> is simply a well put together and charismatic good read. ...more Best Read of 2004!!! Wow! What a way to start a new year. This is the first book I've read by Dean Koontz and I'm kicking myself in the behind for overlooking the man for some many years! After this review, I will make it a point to get my hands on a copy of everything the man has ever written. I first mentioned this book to my ex-husband after coming across it in the bookstore early December. Back cover seemed interesting enough but, not being a fan of Koontz, I decided to put it on my \"wish li Best Read of 2004!!! Wow! What a way to start a new year. This is the first book I've read by Dean Koontz and I'm kicking myself in the behind for overlooking the man for some many years! After this review, I will make it a point to get my hands on a copy of everything the man has ever written. I first mentioned this book to my ex-husband after coming across it in the bookstore early December. Back cover seemed interesting enough but, not being a fan of Koontz, I decided to put it on my \"wish list\". A few days later, my husband handed me the book (God Bless The Man! *grin)and with the first words (\"My name is Odd Thomas...\") - I was hooked! There are no simple words to describe this book - it is a literary masterpiece. There were times when I forgot that I was reading a book and felt as if I were reading a memoir of sorts (in fact, it is from this view that Odd presents his story to the reader). You not only get to know each of the different characters Odd encounters in his life (each unique in their own ways) but you begin to care about what happens to these people. Many times I held my breath, struggling to keep my eyes from leaping to the paragraph below to see what fate awaited a member of Odd's \"family\". I've read some pretty good books in '04 but one of my biggest complaints have been that the books start off very well but I find myself rushing through the ending. I clung to every word in this book, sometimes stopping to savor a particular phrase delivered by the narrator. And the ending delivered! Man, the writing is nothing less than awesome! So simplistic and yet so genius! Hats off to Mr. Dean Koontz for a magnificent job! ...more Odd Thomas is a 20-year old fry cook, and he can see dead people. It's either a gift or a curse. In less than twenty-four hours, Pico Mundo will awaken to a day of catastrophe, and it's up to Odd to try and prevent it. The thing with this novel is that the plot was terribly slow. Koontz served up a lot of character building, a lot being the first 1/3 of the novel. That is pretty normal, but the result should be satisfactory. While I am really liking Odd as a character, I just don't see him as a Odd Thomas is a 20-year old fry cook, and he can see dead people. It's either a gift or a curse. In less than twenty-four hours, Pico Mundo will awaken to a day of catastrophe, and it's up to Odd to try and prevent it. The thing with this novel is that the plot was terribly slow. Koontz served up a lot of character building, a lot being the first 1/3 of the novel. That is pretty normal, but the result should be satisfactory. While I am really liking Odd as a character, I just don't see him as a 20 year old kid. He seemed like someone who's 30+ years old. He seemed to have so much knowledge crammed in his 20 year old brain. It's just not normal. I'm 19 years old, and I don't think like he does. He was planning marriage as soon as possible, and that is really not normal. Stormy was also quite unrealistic. I don't see why she keeps up with Odd, to be honest. I didn't hate her as a character, but I didn't like her much, compared to other lover of the main character characters. Like I said the plot was slow, and at the time wherein it improved, it was still lacking. This is shelved as horror, and 1018 people contributed to that happening. I don't see this as horror at all. Paranormal maybe, because of the ghosts, but even the possibility of the things that happened in the novel happening in real life is quite unlikely. I liked the whole I can talk to ghosts thing Koontz made, but it hasn't grown on me yet. This is the first novel though, and I'm expecting the next one to be a huge improvement. Whenever I ask people to recommend another author who is quite similar to my favorite, Stephen King, the immediate answer would be Dean Koontz. He does write horror books, and a lot of paranormal ones too, but if I were to judge that comparison based on Odd Thomas, I would honestly say that I can't see the similarities. Koontz writes a lot of info dumps, and takes forever to make the reader like the character/s(for me). I keep hearing amazing things about his other novels though, so I might have to give those a try before concluding. The first novel of his that I've read was not the best, but I'm not giving up on the author, and the series. 3/5 stars. Mediocre plot and quite likeable but unrealistic characters. I'm hoping to have a better opinion and experience with the second novel. ...more As a kid, the first thing I did when I was coming back from school was stop by at the library. I used to check out various mystery novels - like those with The Three Investigators, a saga that has remained a favorite and to this day I'm fond of it - and one day the librarian (God bless her) decided that I was mature enough (meaning I started growing whiskers) and recommended Stephen King. Needless to say, I started to read one King book after the other in quick succesion, sometimes even two at th As a kid, the first thing I did when I was coming back from school was stop by at the library. I used to check out various mystery novels - like those with The Three Investigators, a saga that has remained a favorite and to this day I'm fond of it - and one day the librarian (God bless her) decided that I was mature enough (meaning I started growing whiskers) and recommended Stephen King. Needless to say, I started to read one King book after the other in quick succesion, sometimes even two at the same time. I was addicted, much like a heroin addict that needs his fix, I checked out a new King book every day. And then came the unavoidable sad day when there were no new books by King on the library shelf. Since my memories were still too vivid for a re-read, I decided to look for a new author who has released many interesting titles tha would interest a lad like me. I asked the everhelpful librarian, and she pointed me to a shelf directly below the one of the King. It was labeled: \"Dean R. Koontz\". I checked out my first book by the smiling bald guy with a moustache (can't remember what it was), took it home and read quickly. I felt that it was missing something, but still I was entertained enough to come back and check out another. And then another. I've read over a dozen or so of his titles, when new books by King came into library; I checked them out, but from that time on I switched between the two authors just for the fun of it. Koontz was my bubble gum; tasty, but the taste evaporated quickly and you had to take another if you wanted to enjoy it again. I think I'll spare you the rest of my life story and get on with reviewing the book. I bought Odd Thomas the year it came out (or was it a year later? Can't remember). Every reviewer was raving about it which I found surprising - Koontz was always a low-key author, and never received much publicity despite being one of the highest earning American writers. He was the sort of guy who was always there but didn't stick his head out, always had a personal shelf at the library, always released a book each year that you could read, forget and then remember about him when he released a new one. So when Odd Thomas caught attention by many reviewers on various web sites I decided to check it out myself. I bough an used copy through the web, received it, sat in my favorite armchair and began to read. Odd Thomas, proudly bearing the title of \"a novel\" is written from the perspective of a 20 year old Odd, a guy who can see dead people...and does something about it. The first-person narrative has been done by Koontz before, most notably in \"Fear Nothing\" and \"Seize The Night\" - the reader can't help but notice the similarities in style and form. Since Odd Thomas is a character driven novel, maybe we should begin by saying something about them. Characterization was always Koontz's Achilles' heel, and unfortunately it shows in this book. Odd is the type of a literary 20 year old written by a 60-something year old who thinks he can write a cute,sympathetic and witty 20 year old and at the same time slip in some of his disdain for the modern times. Odd doesn't come out as cute and eccentric though; rather boring and preachy. A self-procclaimed carryover from the 50's, Odd lives in the new millenium and stays alive only by listening to Elvis (who also has a supporting role as a ghost) and is heavy on keeping his virginity. Did he forgot that the 50's brough the baby boomers? Was he ever in school? 20 year olds don't talk like this, don't think like this and most importantly don't sound like Dean Koontz. Speaking of whom, everyone in this novel sounds like Dean Koontz or if he doesn't then he's the bad guy. Koontz simplifies the matter to the utmost - everyone either falls in love with Odd, or is concerned by fulfilling his own hedonistic pursuits. Odd's literary, obese friend Little Ozzie is essentially Koontz with opened Wikipedia, and shooting random facts and quotations. Not to mention that he STILL cannot make people talk like real people...only his impressions of them. When will he learn? I've heard comparisons between Odd Thomas and M.Night Shyamalan's famous movie The Sixth Sense . They are without substance; The Sixth Sense is one of the most moving and memorable motion pictures I have ever seen. In Odd Thomas seeing dead people serves as Koontz's remedy of getting out from various plot holes; as does having a blind friend who can read a braille card Odd has just found, etc. The writing style is largely intrusive, overtly verbose and tedious. Instead of using simple descriptions that worked so well in the past Koontz seems content with opening his thesauruses and conjuring up metaphors that completely break the flow of the story. Not that there's much of the story going on; it's constantly interrupted by Koontz's inclusion of various facts about the average number of people being born with six fingers, the biographies of Elvis and Sinatra and even the explanation of various commands shouted at the grille where Odd works (they really weren't that hard to figure out). That's Dean's biggest problems - he not only shows but also tells, tells and tells to be sure you got his point. The biggest flaw of the book is the narration method. At the beginning, Koontz states EXPLICITLY that Odd will be an unreliable narrator, and even says what exactly he will do to make his narration unreliable. He also spoils the classic Christie novel and reveals the murdered, in case you didn't get his point. This is stupid beyond redemption. The sole point of employing an unreliable narrator in fiction is not letting the audience know that there is one . Well, Koontz seems to not notice this after over four decades of writing 15 hours a day, and the \"big surprise\" at the end comes as a yawn. The identity of the evildoers is very disappointing, and the ending confrontation is solved way too fast and way too easy. Overall, the experience is disappointing. There is an interesing story hidden in Odd Thomas - the one you used to watch as a kid, in shows like \"Goosebumps\" - but Odd Thomas is marketed at an adult audience, and fails as adult fiction because of Koontz's ineptitude at drawing realistic, likeable characters and writing dialogue (he's truly horrible at it), his tedious writing style and his mistrust of the audience - he truly does spell out every single thing in detail. As a children book it fails too, because of Koontz's inclusion of gruesome details of various crimes, which were supposed to be shocking and mature but turn out to be boring instead. If he only cut up the metaphors, created stronger characters who behave and talk like normal people Odd Thomas might have been an enjoyable bus book. It just needs too much suspension of disbelief to be read. It's still better than all the sequels though, which make me think: When will Koontz stop cashing in on this fluke and start writing like he did in the 80's? I don't like the work of this new guy with a clean shaven sagging face and a mop of fake hair. ...more There are plenty of prolific authors out there with whom I'm completely unfamiliar. It was only a few years ago that I \u201cmet\u201d (and fell hard for) Stephen King . So I decided to give Dean Koontz a whirl, and (as suggested by my lone star rating) Odd Thomas and I did't exactly hit it off. I get the whole different strokes for different folks thing, but I just couldn't handle the saccharine sweet (e.g. \u201cMy favorite body part is my heart...\u201d ), at times infuriatingly repetitive narrative voice of There are plenty of prolific authors out there with whom I'm completely unfamiliar. It was only a few years ago that I \u201cmet\u201d (and fell hard for) Stephen King . So I decided to give Dean Koontz a whirl, and (as suggested by my lone star rating) Odd Thomas and I did't exactly hit it off. I get the whole different strokes for different folks thing, but I just couldn't handle the saccharine sweet (e.g. \u201cMy favorite body part is my heart...\u201d ), at times infuriatingly repetitive narrative voice of Odd \"Yes That's My Real Name\" Thomas. The premise for the book is simply not all that hard to follow\u2014Odd sees dead people. So, there's no need to expressly state that *insert character's name here* (who doesn't see dead people) might have a different take on the world. Then there are topics/references tossed in that just felt forced. September 11th comes up a couple times, pedophilia and molestation are in there for good measure, and then there's Odd's bizarre understanding of autism. I'm no expert on the etiology of autism spectrum disorders, but Odd's rationale for avoiding big cities\u2014 that, in the face of so many lingering dead, he \u201cwould no doubt quickly seek escape in autism or suicide\u201d \u2014left me feeling a bit thrown. It doesn't come up again, other than transitioning to the next thought with \u201cNot yet either dead or autistic\u2026\u201d But WTF?!? Long of the short, Odd Thomas is not for me. I'd be open to giving Koontz another try, but, after this one, I'm in no hurry. ...more This book wasn't supposed to make me cry . This book was supposed to be simple, mindless fun. I wasn't supposed to fall in love with the tortured and unloved (by family) Odd. This story was supposed to be easy . So why am I still crying? I had not asked to be born. Only to be loved. Review to come. My sister and I listened to this in the car on our trips around town. In that week or more we spent together, I felt like Odd became part of my life. I was rather sad when it ended. I appreciated the audiobook format very much. I think it was very immersive, and Koontz words were very poetic. Odd is such a unique guy. He's got a pure heart and that's saying something. His gift has made his life very difficult, but he doesn't take it like a curse. It's his life, and he takes ownership of that. He My sister and I listened to this in the car on our trips around town. In that week or more we spent together, I felt like Odd became part of my life. I was rather sad when it ended. I appreciated the audiobook format very much. I think it was very immersive, and Koontz words were very poetic. Odd is such a unique guy. He's got a pure heart and that's saying something. His gift has made his life very difficult, but he doesn't take it like a curse. It's his life, and he takes ownership of that. He protects his town of Pico Mundo with a steadfast and vigilant dedication, and his only aspiration in life is to be with his true love, Stormy Llewellyn. \"Odd Thomas\" is a story about a young man who sees ghosts and who does his part to resolve what has wronged them. When he meets a very strange man on what seems like a typical day, his life will change inevitably. This book takes place over a short few days, but they are action packed days for Odd and the reader. He's trying to solve a mystery. What is drawing all these boggarts, which are dark spirits that Odd sees when something bad is going to happen. The weird man that Odd calls Fungus Man has so many around him that it makes Odd suspicious, and when he goes to the man's house, he sees something terrible, that makes Odd's fears for the town grow exponentially. This suspense thread goes throughout the book and leads to a dramatic conclusion. Odd is a bit of an unlikely hero, but he is perfectly suited to be the hero of this novel. His way of processing things is very down-to-earth but quite brilliant. I love a good mystery with an intelligent sleuth, and while this is a ghost story, this is also a good suspense story. It's also heartbreaking because you know that no matter what Odd does, people are going to die. He can only minimize the damage. In that sense, and in others, Odd is a very tragic hero. When the reader gets a glimpse at Odd's family life, it makes you wonder how this young man can be so well-adjusted, friendly, oddly hopeful, and in his own way content. But the good news is although his family is pretty awful, he has formed his own family of friends who love him deeply. \"Odd Thomas\" is different for Koontz, but some of those touches that are so integral to his style are there. This is like his version of the coming of age novel, with a boy-man who sees ghosts and rights their wrongs, his typical sicko villain. I recommend reading this, and if you can get the audiobook version, I especially recommend that. ...more I had no interest in reading ODD THOMAS when it first came out. Although Watchers, Lightning, and some of Koontz's older novels are some of my favorites, I had read a few of his more recent novels and had been a little disappointed. But...I was browsing in the used book store and decided what the heck, I will pick up a copy just in case I ever change my mind. It took 7 years. [image error] The great thing about it taking 7 years is I forgot what the book was about so I got to have the \"Big Ahhhaaa I had no interest in reading ODD THOMAS when it first came out. Although Watchers, Lightning, and some of Koontz's older novels are some of my favorites, I had read a few of his more recent novels and had been a little disappointed. But...I was browsing in the used book store and decided what the heck, I will pick up a copy just in case I ever change my mind. It took 7 years. [image error] The great thing about it taking 7 years is I forgot what the book was about so I got to have the \"Big Ahhhaaaaa\" moment in the first chapter. Sometimes being clueless CAN be a good thing. In almost all of the Dean Koontz books I have read, I find that I quickly grow attached to central characters he introduces. I am always on board with them on their journeys and adventures, and constantly worry about their welfare. This was no exception. ODD THOMAS had me at hello! ...more This was one weird story that ramped up to great 4 star finish. I was skeptical through the first 3/4 of the book or so, I even had a hard time staying interested, but the end was great. I look forward to more in the series. Dean Koontz is an incredible author - one of my favorite in the PNR/Horror genre, and every Koontz book I've read has been fast paced, scary but not terrifying and, start to finish, grabs hold, doesn't let go. \u201cThe dead don't talk. I don't know why.\u201d But they do try to communicate, with a short-order cook in a small desert town serving as their reluctant confidant. Odd Thomas thinks of himself as an ordinary guy, if possessed of a certain measure of talent at the Pico Mundo Grill and rapturously Dean Koontz is an incredible author - one of my favorite in the PNR/Horror genre, and every Koontz book I've read has been fast paced, scary but not terrifying and, start to finish, grabs hold, doesn't let go. \u201cThe dead don't talk. I don't know why.\u201d But they do try to communicate, with a short-order cook in a small desert town serving as their reluctant confidant. Odd Thomas thinks of himself as an ordinary guy, if possessed of a certain measure of talent at the Pico Mundo Grill and rapturously in love with the most beautiful girl in the world, Stormy Llewellyn. Maybe he has a gift, maybe it\u2019s a curse, Odd has never been sure, but he tries to do his best by the silent souls who seek him out. Sometimes they want justice, and Odd\u2019s otherworldly tips to Pico Mundo's sympathetic police chief, Wyatt Porter, can solve a crime. Occasionally they can prevent one. But this time it's different. A mysterious man comes to town with a voracious appetite, a filing cabinet stuffed with information on the world's worst killers, and a pack of hyena-like shades following him wherever he goes. Who the man is and what he wants, not even Odd\u2019s deceased informants can tell him. His most ominous clue is a page ripped from a day-by-day calendar for August 15. Today is August 14. In less than twenty-four hours, Pico Mundo will awaken to a day of catastrophe. As evil coils under the searing desert sun, Odd travels through the shifting prisms of his world, struggling to avert a looming cataclysm with the aid of his soul mate and an unlikely community of allies that includes the King of Rock 'n' Roll. His account of two shattering days when past and present, fate and destiny converge is the stuff of our worst nightmares\u2014and a testament by which to live: sanely if not safely, with courage, humor, and a full heart that even in the darkness must persevere. Odd Thomas is a great start to the series. All the necessary world building is done so that it's interesting, funny and yes, even believable! Odd Thomas is the kind of guy I wish lived outside the pages of a book, because I'd love to know the 'real' him. He is kind, honest, funny and... he sees dead people. What more could you want in a friend? If you enjoy humorous stories with a paranormal twist, be sure to check out this series. ...more Caution: comments contain spoilers. I like Dean Koontz but I am not a big fan. I don't know if the stories seem too generic or the characters are too standard in my view, but he gets me about 60% of the way there most times. I have actually put down a few of his books after about 50 pages because I simply lost interest. I know that he is wildly popular so obviously others don't share this view. Odd Thomas, both the novel and the character, were different for me though. The idea of someone being a Caution: comments contain spoilers. I like Dean Koontz but I am not a big fan. I don't know if the stories seem too generic or the characters are too standard in my view, but he gets me about 60% of the way there most times. I have actually put down a few of his books after about 50 pages because I simply lost interest. I know that he is wildly popular so obviously others don't share this view. Odd Thomas, both the novel and the character, were different for me though. The idea of someone being able to see and interact with ghosts is hardly original with Koontz. This territory was tread in Sixth Sense and taken farther and darker in Kealan Patrick Burke's Turtle Boy series, among many others. I think it is what Odd Thomas, the character, brings to this story that makes it stand out. He carries in him a sadness, a fatalism, combined with a self-deprecation and appreciation of his own weaknesses that made him and this story stand out to me---and make me want to read more in the series. He is also funny as hell, which I definitely did not expect. The whole narrative is told by Odd Thomas himself (who has no confidence in himself as a proper or even reliable narrator) in a quirky and meandering fashion that invites us not to take anything seriously even when as the story gets darker and creepier. I found myself genuinely creeped out several times and that is a really good thing. 5 Stars. ...more Finishing this was a chore. I know I've read other books by Koontz before, but it's been a long time & then in paperbacks. His writing never appealed to me much years ago, but due to several rave reviews I thought I should give his books another try. Much about this one seems interesting. The characters, plot, & world were excellent, but the execution was not at all to my taste. He's repetitious - a cardinal sin - especially in audio format where I can't skim. The descriptions are too lon Finishing this was a chore. I know I've read other books by Koontz before, but it's been a long time & then in paperbacks. His writing never appealed to me much years ago, but due to several rave reviews I thought I should give his books another try. Much about this one seems interesting. The characters, plot, & world were excellent, but the execution was not at all to my taste. He's repetitious - a cardinal sin - especially in audio format where I can't skim. The descriptions are too long, comparative, & hinder the flow of the story. Interesting devices become clubs. For instance, Odd's aversion to guns. (view spoiler) [His mother could have threatened suicide in that manner once & created the same aversion. (hide spoiler) ] Instead I was treated to a couple of chapters of over-the-top lunacy that did nothing to advance the story. I persevered in hopes of a decent ending, but the mystery wasn't much of one & most of it only became clear in a tidy summation that just highlighted how little Odd discovered; so many details that could have added to the action & the story as whole. Instead, it was a wandering mess. I haven't had a great start to my reading this year. This one was self-inflicted with grave misgivings. Well, now I know not to waste any more time on Koontz's books no matter how interesting they seem. His writing is not for me. ...more I REALLY wanted to like this novel. The first chapter hooked me-- bad stuff is going to happen to the likable guy who sees dead people. And NOTHING happens for the next 200 pages. Well, almost nothing-- Odd discovers this Black Room with mysteriously cool properties. The Black Room keeps me hooked a little bit longer....but Koontz doesn't even explain what it is or why it's important to the plot. I spent the next 300 pages waiting for Odd to go back to the room, but it's not even mentioned again I REALLY wanted to like this novel. The first chapter hooked me-- bad stuff is going to happen to the likable guy who sees dead people. And NOTHING happens for the next 200 pages. Well, almost nothing-- Odd discovers this Black Room with mysteriously cool properties. The Black Room keeps me hooked a little bit longer....but Koontz doesn't even explain what it is or why it's important to the plot. I spent the next 300 pages waiting for Odd to go back to the room, but it's not even mentioned again. Minus the Black Room concept, the book is awful--lame villains, horrible dialogue, and unbelievable situations. Did I mention unbelievable situations? Yeah, Odd and his girlfriend are discussing running off and getting married in Vegas and/or eating tacos while some cataclysmic event looms. I wanted to stop reading, but I was hoping there would be some huge payoff in the end (ie: cataclysmic event or a Black Room explanation). Instead, Koontz ends the novel with a cataclysmically bad and unnecessary plot device that ruined the book even further. As I was reading, I genuinely thought that Koontz published this novel as a big joke-- \"Look, my name alone can sell a million copies of crap.\" No more Koontz or Odd for me. One side note: this novel DID inspire me to write my own fiction. If this guy can do it, anyone can. ...more Great start to a series There aren't many books that hook me in and keep my undivided attention from beginning to end, but this is one of those rare instances in which I simply could not put the book down. I look forward to reading the rest of the series!! Isla was going to get this, but she was equivocating, so I knocked her over and took it. I have read a lot of Dean Koontz! Back when he was Dean R. Koontz. According to Wikipedia, in 1992, when I was thirteen, I had read every book he'd published under his own name- which was, what, like, a dozen or so? I used to get them from the library and read them at other kids' little league games... which sounds a little nerdy, in retrospect. Anyway, I loved 'em! I was a little nerdy serious kid like \"Mom Isla was going to get this, but she was equivocating, so I knocked her over and took it. I have read a lot of Dean Koontz! Back when he was Dean R. Koontz. According to Wikipedia, in 1992, when I was thirteen, I had read every book he'd published under his own name- which was, what, like, a dozen or so? I used to get them from the library and read them at other kids' little league games... which sounds a little nerdy, in retrospect. Anyway, I loved 'em! I was a little nerdy serious kid like \"Mom, what does 'hermaphrodite' mean?\" \"Mom, what's 'clapboard?'\" \"Mom! He can just see PIG MONSTERS through people's FACES!\" I guess it kind of makes sense, given that I've grown up a little and now I'm like, \"Alex! She shot a MOTORCYLE at the monster and then SHOT THE MOTORCYCLE and it BLEW UP THE MOTORCYCLE *AND* THE MONSTER!\" Not that Alex is my mom, y'know. Just that she tends to be nearby when I'm excited. So yeah, Odd Thomas. I think I stopped reading Dean Koontz before high school? Maybe around high school time? I think what happened was, I read the Catcher in the Rye and decided that genre fiction was for stupid babies. Which is wrong! But what did I know, I was a thirteen-year-old who'd only ever read Dean R. Koontz and Lois Duncan . I remember Mr Koontz's books being more horrory and less suspensey, but I think I was wrong. I mean, this one had ghost monsters and Satanists and stuff, but it was much more about suspense than about awesome explosions or anything. ALSO Alex has been reading Janet Evanovich lately, and she tells me things that happen in Janet Evanovich novels (like \"she told her mom she could play the cello but she was lying!\" and, um, \"She got in a fight with an ocelot,\" or something, I don't remember) and there were definitely clunker lines in Odd Thomas that reminded me of what Ms Evanovich sometimes sound like, thirdhand. Like when the ghost stripper- SPOILER!- saves Odd Thomas from the coyotes, that sort of thing. It was still nice though. I can see why Mr. Koontz is so pumped to make Odd Thomas be a big long series- his voice as narrator is soothing and friendly and inviting, even if it's as hokey as every other death-obsessed 20-year-old goth who thinks he's a little bit too mature for all the showy gothiness of being a goth, and is much more interested in world-weariness than black lipstick. Also, Dean Koontz, you lose points when you have one black character in your novel and he is a BLIND JAZZ RADIO HOST. WTF. But still, genre fiction is genre fiction, and this works as genre fiction. I enjoyed it! I already got a copy of Brother Odd and put the copy of The Passion of New Eve I'd just started back on the shelf. I mean, the only reason for me to be reading Dean Koontz instead of Angela Carter is nostalgia, but nostalgia's a legitimate reason. Have you noticed I'm not really saying anything? I'm typing 'cause I'm bored. ...more I've only read one Dean Koontz thriller before and didn't really enjoy it so I wasn't expecting to enjoy this so much. Not only does Koontz spin a good tale, but Odd Thomas is such an original character, it's hard not to like him. He's a gentle soul, a cheerful short order fry chef in the small town of Pico Mundo in southern California, who wants to marry his high school sweetheart Stormy Llewellyn and is contented with his life. He's almost normal except for one special skill: he can see the de I've only read one Dean Koontz thriller before and didn't really enjoy it so I wasn't expecting to enjoy this so much. Not only does Koontz spin a good tale, but Odd Thomas is such an original character, it's hard not to like him. He's a gentle soul, a cheerful short order fry chef in the small town of Pico Mundo in southern California, who wants to marry his high school sweetheart Stormy Llewellyn and is contented with his life. He's almost normal except for one special skill: he can see the dead. Some, like Elvis, just don't want to move on and others seek him out wanting justice for wrongful deaths. Odd can also see strange ghost-like beings hanging around those who are going to die so when his town becomes invaded with these beings he gets a very bad feeling. I enjoyed the way the tension built up slowly in this thriller as Odd tries to work out why these strange ghosts are in his town. I loved his girlfriend, Stormy who is the perfect partner for him with her quirky ideas and I liked the Chief of Police who quietly accepts that Odd sees the dead and trusts him when he has a bad feeling. Definitely a less violent tale than I was expecting, told with a bit of humour and some sadness at the end. ...more Folks, I just can't do it. I made myself get to around 65% on audio, and I've had to backtrack to re-listen about five hundred times (slight exaggeration). I'm just wasting valuable reading time at this point. This is the second DNF for me this year, out of over two hundred fifty books, so I don't do this lightly. The genre just isn't for me. I've read and enjoyed Koontz other works up to a point. I find his characters to be a little to nice, a little too real for the horror/mystery genres. I sa Folks, I just can't do it. I made myself get to around 65% on audio, and I've had to backtrack to re-listen about five hundred times (slight exaggeration). I'm just wasting valuable reading time at this point. This is the second DNF for me this year, out of over two hundred fifty books, so I don't do this lightly. The genre just isn't for me. I've read and enjoyed Koontz other works up to a point. I find his characters to be a little to nice, a little too real for the horror/mystery genres. I say if you're going to create a character that communes with the dead, or slays monster bad guys, or whatever...he's got to have some big ole balls. Odd Thomas is a flat, boring, borderline simpleton. Simple is the perfect word. And while I know many people thought that this was his most endearing trait, it was most definitely not for me. I like complexity, I like depth. And I just didn't feel it here. Which kind of sucks, because I loved the idea of Odd. Not only did I not like Odd but the description! Aaaahhh! This is where I really started to tune out. Seriously, EVERY SINGLE PERSON that I met in this little town was described in detail, including their pasts, their homes, their jobs, how they met their significant other, and finally, FINALLY their significance (or not) to the story. Too. Much. For. Me. I just couldn't bring myself to care any more. No matter how much my husband or any other male acquaintance thinks that because I am an avidly addicted reader that I MUST read this mystery/thriller/horror/political drama.....I say NO! I don't want to!! Not my kind of book. Thanks. EDIT TO ADD: I feel that I should also say that I listened to the audio of this, and I think some of my aversion to the story may have been the narrator. He has a very 'nice' voice, like a Dad from an old black and white sitcom. It added to the boring factor. Koontz has a great imagination, and the story may have been better for me had I read the book instead of listening. ...more This was my very first Dean Koontz book so I wasn't sure what to expect. Plus, this was in the Horror genre, which I don't find myself reading a lot of. So this book was a huge surprise, because I liked this one a lot. It took a little more time than I like to really get into this, but I was definitely in. I think it was because of the characters. They were so well drawn that I found myself really caring about them. The MC was so sweet and endearing. I also liked the dialogue between him and the This was my very first Dean Koontz book so I wasn't sure what to expect. Plus, this was in the Horror genre, which I don't find myself reading a lot of. So this book was a huge surprise, because I liked this one a lot. It took a little more time than I like to really get into this, but I was definitely in. I think it was because of the characters. They were so well drawn that I found myself really caring about them. The MC was so sweet and endearing. I also liked the dialogue between him and the other characters, especially with Stormy. Those two things alone, can really make a book more than just an enjoyable experience for me. Some of the story elements were pretty far out there as far as concept goes, but the author made things sound perfectly plausible in Odd's world. So I can't wait to read more by this author. ...more Book 1 is my favorite Odd Thomas book, to-date. Awesome story with a memorable character. I thought about Odd long after I put the book down, and it definitely made me want to read more. I started on Forever Odd (book 2) the same evening. Dean Koontz has created a very interesting character and some witty dialogue and humor. While it might not be as dark as most of his other works, Odd Thomas has an eerie foreshadowing that really works. You have to keep reading to find out what happens. I can't w Book 1 is my favorite Odd Thomas book, to-date. Awesome story with a memorable character. I thought about Odd long after I put the book down, and it definitely made me want to read more. I started on Forever Odd (book 2) the same evening. Dean Koontz has created a very interesting character and some witty dialogue and humor. While it might not be as dark as most of his other works, Odd Thomas has an eerie foreshadowing that really works. You have to keep reading to find out what happens. I can't wait to read more! I must start book 4 soon... Cheryl Kaye Tardif, author of The River ...more I don't know why I put this series off so long. Maybe because I am not a huge fan of Koontz I've only read a few of his novels and they were okay. But I kept reading how great his Odd Thomas series is so I decided to give it a shot. Love this character! I love the \"I see dead people\" concept but even more with Odd's humility. I love that he's a fry cook, I love that he lives in a small town, I love how he surrounds himself with caring and colorful characters. I was riveted from page one and the e I don't know why I put this series off so long. Maybe because I am not a huge fan of Koontz I've only read a few of his novels and they were okay. But I kept reading how great his Odd Thomas series is so I decided to give it a shot. Love this character! I love the \"I see dead people\" concept but even more with Odd's humility. I love that he's a fry cook, I love that he lives in a small town, I love how he surrounds himself with caring and colorful characters. I was riveted from page one and the ending just killed me. Looking forward to continuing the series. ...more Odd Thomas is one of my favorite Dean Koontz novels. With a seemingly average character whom any reader can relate to, fantasy and eerie happenings, it's a very different and unforgettable story. \"Odd Thomas\" by Dean Koontz is the first book in his \u201cOdd\u201d series. This novel probably inspired the television series Medium. There are several similarities between them, including the ability of the main character to speak with the dead and use information gleaned to solve crimes. Both also involve lots of action and some romance. Odd Thomas is the protagonist and narrator of the novel. He is a 20 year old short-order cook at the local grill in a small desert town. He is surrounded by several qu \"Odd Thomas\" by Dean Koontz is the first book in his \u201cOdd\u201d series. This novel probably inspired the television series Medium. There are several similarities between them, including the ability of the main character to speak with the dead and use information gleaned to solve crimes. Both also involve lots of action and some romance. Odd Thomas is the protagonist and narrator of the novel. He is a 20 year old short-order cook at the local grill in a small desert town. He is surrounded by several quirky people. Odd surreptitiously provides clues for solving crimes to police chief Wyatt Porter, who acts as his surrogate father. Odd is in love with the beautiful and sexually stunted Stormy. His best friend, the obese Little Ozzie, is a successful mystery writer who lives with a cat named Terrible Chester. Odd also has a sixth sense through which the dead communicate with him and has a built-in \u201cGPS,\u201d other-worldly creatures he calls bodachs, or evil ghosts, enabling him to track them. Bodachs hover around anything or anybody associated with violence and death. Sometimes dead victims of crimes use Odd as a conduit through which information passes to solve the crimes. One day a suspicious stranger comes into the grill where Odd works. Odd nicknames him \u201cFungus Man.\u201d He is alarmed because this stranger is followed by a large swarm of bodachs and undoubtedly will be connected with an impending epic disaster. Odd uses his internal GPS to locate the stranger\u2019s apartment where he finds a mysterious dark room full of bodachs. He is sure this is a portal into hell. He also finds a filing cabinet full of information about the world\u2019s most famous and gruesome killers, including a file on Fungus Man containing only a calendar page for August 15, the next day. To Odd, this means that a cataclysm will occur in the next 24 hours, involving him a race against time. As in any good horror novel, the atmosphere is creepy, eerie and surreal. Descriptions of events are somewhat gruesome and gory. Sometimes I became confused about events, such as the scene involving the portal into hell. For a skeptic like me, this plot seemed pretty far-fetched and the protagonist appeared too heroic and Christ-like in his fight against evil. However, the horror is offset by lots of action, a fast pace, humorous and witty dialog, romance, and eccentric characters, including an occasional visit from Elvis. READ-ALIKES \u2013 Manhattan Hunt Club and Black Creek by John Saul The Resort and The Walking by Bentley Little Endless Night by Richard Laymon Undead and Unwed by MaryJanice Davidson ...more Read my mini review here... http://badassbookreviews.com/michelle... Or below.. Odd Thomas (Odd Thomas #1)\u00a0by Dean Koontz was so good and I\u2019m so annoyed. I\u2019m a huge Koontz fan, I\u2019ve been reading his books since I was a teen. He basically started me on horror novels. For some stupid reason, I was hesitant in starting Odd Thomas. I\u2019m not sure why. Maybe because the book seemed so mild compared to his other books. I\u2019m so dumb. I loved Odd. I loved everything about him. I loved the story, all the min Read my mini review here... http://badassbookreviews.com/michelle... Or below.. Odd Thomas (Odd Thomas #1)\u00a0by Dean Koontz was so good and I\u2019m so annoyed. I\u2019m a huge Koontz fan, I\u2019ve been reading his books since I was a teen. He basically started me on horror novels. For some stupid reason, I was hesitant in starting Odd Thomas. I\u2019m not sure why. Maybe because the book seemed so mild compared to his other books. I\u2019m so dumb. I loved Odd. I loved everything about him. I loved the story, all the minor characters, the plot twists and the ending. I guess one good thing about waiting so long to read book 1 is I have five more books in the series ready to be downloaded. ...more I get all of my book recommendations from avid readers. When someone suggest something to me passionately, it\u2019s that passion that makes me want to read it. I avoid best-selling authors because I\u2019ve come to find most best sellers to be seriously underwhelming -- \u201cThe Girl With the Dragon Tattoo\u201d as a case in point. The best I can say about it is \u201ceh, who cares.\u201d I mentioned this to someone, who said I should give Dean Koontz a chance. I remember reading a Koontz novel years ago. Underwhelmed. Bu I get all of my book recommendations from avid readers. When someone suggest something to me passionately, it\u2019s that passion that makes me want to read it. I avoid best-selling authors because I\u2019ve come to find most best sellers to be seriously underwhelming -- \u201cThe Girl With the Dragon Tattoo\u201d as a case in point. The best I can say about it is \u201ceh, who cares.\u201d I mentioned this to someone, who said I should give Dean Koontz a chance. I remember reading a Koontz novel years ago. Underwhelmed. But I was assured that Odd Thomas was different. The best I can say about Odd Thomas is \u201ceh. Who cares.\u201d The character is interesting, but his world of spirits is contrived (I should talk, right?) but seriously, having written about a spirit-filled alternate reality, I know the importance of world-building, and I felt that, as well- developed and as interesting as the character was, the world was familiar and uninspired. But I think what frustrated me most was the way Koontz got around issues of character logic. Any time he wanted the character to do something that didn\u2019t make sense for the character to do, he relied on a kind of supernatural intuition that told Odd Thomas to go to a particular place, or do a particular thing. All that really was, was the author pulling the character\u2019s strings for the convenience of the story. Shame shame, Dean! But then, perhaps I\u2019m holding Dean Koontz accountable for something that\u2019s really not his fault - the general uninspired nature of popular literature for adult readers. With rare exception it\u2019s all underwhelming to me... You write what the public demands, and eventually you get trapped in that, even if you\u2019re trying to go against expectation, as Koontz did with Odd Thomas. ...more The back of the cover gave an impressive feel - Odd Thomas, a 20-year old something sweet guy, living in Pico Mundo, a sweet little peaceful town works as an excellent fry-cook and is going steady with his gorgeous, adorable, avid feminist girl Stormy. And this guy is odd - because he can see ghosts, talk with them and see the mysterious bodachs that follow people just before they are destined to die. A mysterious man with a ravenous appetite appears and bodachs follow him - they haunt his house The back of the cover gave an impressive feel - Odd Thomas, a 20-year old something sweet guy, living in Pico Mundo, a sweet little peaceful town works as an excellent fry-cook and is going steady with his gorgeous, adorable, avid feminist girl Stormy. And this guy is odd - because he can see ghosts, talk with them and see the mysterious bodachs that follow people just before they are destined to die. A mysterious man with a ravenous appetite appears and bodachs follow him - they haunt his house as well. And Odd begins to realize that the man is Evil - and the day after he has this feeling, he realizes that the man is going to unleash his evil fury on the quaint, happy town in fewer than 24 hours and he has even less time to figure out what or when or where it will happen. Well, despite the great possibility of turning this into a formidable horror/supernatural novel, Koontz falls much below expectations. The plot is excruciatingly slow - even at the end of the 15th chapter, we are reminded for the umpteenth time that something bad is about to happen. The leisurely speed takes away any horror, fear or anticipation we are supposed to feel. The plot is too predictable - we know right away who will die, who will survive. The characters of Odd and Stormy, though pleasant, even lovable, are eventually caricatures - they lack any depth. The storyline is extremely weak - it is too poor to be stretched into a whole novel-sized affair. A short-story would have been far better. Overall, it is a highly flawed book - only those who want to read a supernatural book that fails to instill any fear in the reader, that reads like a fairytale written for engaging children without frightening them off should pick this up. ...more I have never read Dean Koontz before, and have never found any real draw to him or his typical genre of writing. However, I've found myself suitably impressed with this first venture into his collection of novels. The book was written in a fashion that I found very entertaining and engaging, staying light just long enough to knock me a bit off balance when it grew darker. The characters were nicely fleshed out in all their oddness (pun not intended but unavoidable) and were quite enchanting. If po I have never read Dean Koontz before, and have never found any real draw to him or his typical genre of writing. However, I've found myself suitably impressed with this first venture into his collection of novels. The book was written in a fashion that I found very entertaining and engaging, staying light just long enough to knock me a bit off balance when it grew darker. The characters were nicely fleshed out in all their oddness (pun not intended but unavoidable) and were quite enchanting. If possible I'd give it 3.5 stars, but not quite 4 stars. As interesting in fun as it was, it did rather lack a certain depth that I appreciate, and it got a little overblown during the last quarter of the book. Still, I did thoroughly enjoy it, and am rather pleased that I picked up Forever Odd for $1 at a yard sale today. I'm looking forward to giving it a read sometime in the future as well. ...more Some would even say I am generous with my rating but I guess it will do. This book was one of those paperbacks that I found in a local store that I bought but did not realize I did so until I was out of the store. I liked some of his early work but I never saw Koontz as my choice for a well thought out read. I mainly dislike his characters, but in this case I did not like the ending. Odd, who is an average guy working as a fry cook, can see dead people. Most just linger around him or places they Some would even say I am generous with my rating but I guess it will do. This book was one of those paperbacks that I found in a local store that I bought but did not realize I did so until I was out of the store. I liked some of his early work but I never saw Koontz as my choice for a well thought out read. I mainly dislike his characters, but in this case I did not like the ending. Odd, who is an average guy working as a fry cook, can see dead people. Most just linger around him or places they used to visit and most are not dangerous at all, just sad and unable to accept their fate and move on. Odd is not by any means a bad person. He helps people, he listens to adults, and he keeps as much out of trouble as he can. It does help that his friend works for the police department AND believes Odd can see dead people. COME ON,KOONTZ!!!! Anyway, Odd does not really have good parents (one threatens to kill him or kill herself whenever she is forced to provide comfort for her child and the other chases after 18 year old girls and dumps them after 6 to 9 months), but he has a wonderful girlfriend. Odd just seems moppy, even hipster-ish to me. It comes off a bit annoying at times. The bad guy(s) are as cliche as they can be. There was no sense of mystery surrounding them and the explanation of how they became evil was a big load of even bigger cliche shit. Than there was the ending which was not even a bit surprising. The damn bad guy stand off was built and than solved in a paragraph. WTF?? For me it felt like I was watching a movie about some super bad aliens attacking Earth and then promptly deciding to leave once we showed them that we have bigger weapons than hand guns. For most of the book Odd just runs from one place to the next and does not get much done. This was a decent read. I felt like the idea was good but not well developed, or better yet, it had a big potential but it was not broadened enough. I thought this was going to be more of a bunch of bad spirits finding a way to enter our world and Odd stopping them as others give him looks of confusion since they can't see the said spirits. Of well. I am not in a rush to read any other Koontz books. Also, one of the biggest reasons why I like King's books more is that King knows how to write good characters, no matter what age they are. Koontz writes cliche dialogue that ends every chapter in an even bigger cliche and 20 year olds who listen to Elvis. Koontz is not bad author, just not a right one for me. ...more I\u2019m extremely impressed at how Koontz handled this story considering that I prefer his older stuff. I have been a fan of his for years now but this take takes a fork, stabs you in the heart and scrambles it a around a bit\u2026 yeah it will make you sit up while reading, I read this months ago and I still feel jolts of adrenaline when certain creative scenes come up in my memory ( the black room\u2026 brrr)\u2026 I have the whole series and let me tell you, the act of writing this review makes me want to stop I\u2019m extremely impressed at how Koontz handled this story considering that I prefer his older stuff. I have been a fan of his for years now but this take takes a fork, stabs you in the heart and scrambles it a around a bit\u2026 yeah it will make you sit up while reading, I read this months ago and I still feel jolts of adrenaline when certain creative scenes come up in my memory ( the black room\u2026 brrr)\u2026 I have the whole series and let me tell you, the act of writing this review makes me want to stop and read all of them back to back. This has guts, scares ( gripping the page, trying to sneak peek ahead) and such intense creativity with a very humane touch that I\u2019 not surprised why it\u2019s such a huge hit. The books ready very fast so anyone interested in a bit of intense fiction should definitely pick it up and they pack a punch. There is a sense of something funny going on in the seemingly ordinary town where Thomas lives at. Thomas is someone who would say that it\u2019s unconstitutional to try to prevent psychopathic from fulfilling their potential but he\u2019s also someone who can see things, bag things\u2026 he knows of the bad incidents, you can\u2019t hide any spilled blood from Thomas. The story starts as his own memoir, he is writing it and something bad is about to happen, each line, each sentence has heavy foreboding behind it, something major and nasty is about to happen and supernatural occurrence of any sorts is not out of the question, this is where Koontz does a seamless job or joining real and imaginary in a realistic fashion where you feel like the worst fears could be real. I wont spoil anything but the story is insane, Thomas starts following a strange character in his town whom he calls the Fungus Man, he manages to snoop in his house and my hair was standing up straight in those moments, that alone was worth the price of the book, I got my thrills! The ending was huge, my mouth hung open for quite a bit, Koontz did well, maybe too well but it worked\u2026 read it and form you own memory of it, that\u2019s all I can say. - Kasia S. ...more Odd Thomas Is the second Dean Koontz book i have read and was an excellent read. The story centres on Odd Thomas who is just like everyone else working as a cook at the Pico Mundo Grill, has a great girlfriend Stormy and divorced parents. What makes Odd different is his ability to see the dead and liquid like things he calls bodachs who only appear when death is going to happen. When a mystery man shows up in town Odd senses great danger for the ones he loves and the community as a whole. A sixth Odd Thomas Is the second Dean Koontz book i have read and was an excellent read. The story centres on Odd Thomas who is just like everyone else working as a cook at the Pico Mundo Grill, has a great girlfriend Stormy and divorced parents. What makes Odd different is his ability to see the dead and liquid like things he calls bodachs who only appear when death is going to happen. When a mystery man shows up in town Odd senses great danger for the ones he loves and the community as a whole. A sixth sense convinces Odd that the mystery man he first sees while working at the grill is the evil he is sensing. After following the man Odd enters the man home to find all manner of disturbing stuff. Odd finds a cabintet full of info on some of the worst serial killers in history and a mysterious room were he seemingly sees himself in the future. Odd is know convinced that the man he identifies as Robertson needs to be stopped before he kills only for him to found shot dead in Odd's apartment. Even worse will occur when the chief of police is gunned down at the front of his house. This event shakes Odd to the core as he sees the chief as like a father figure but despite this he soldiers on to try and prevent tragedy and protect the ones he loves. Right from the onset Odd Thomas had me in its grip. Odd for one is a great character as a self confessed genius fry cook and someone who uses his unique abilty for good. The other character's compliment the story beautifully from Odd's friends and family, the evil ones and even Elvis who for some reason hasn't left the world and stays with Odd. The story was well crafted and although at times predictable there's enough twists and turns to keep you reading till the last page. ...more", "Title": "Odd Thomas"},
