{"Comments": "The world turns on our every action,<---M> and our every omission</---M>, whether we know it or not. It is statistically improbable that I will read a book as good as this one anytime soon. Although I\u2019ll admit it starts off slowly, I found that the depths of this novel are revealed as the protagonist\u2019s life unfolds. Something of a bildungsroman, <+++>Cutting for Stone</+++> focuses on a pair of twin boys who are born and raised in an African missionary hospital. Their story combines elements of Indian and Ethiopian lang The world turns on our every action, and our every omission, whether we know it or not. It is statistically improbable that I will read a book as good as this one anytime soon. Although I\u2019ll admit it starts off slowly, I found that the depths of this novel are revealed as the protagonist\u2019s life unfolds. Something of a bildungsroman, <+++>Cutting for Stone</+++> focuses on a pair of twin boys who are born and raised in an African missionary hospital. Their story combines elements of Indian and Ethiopian language and culture, third world medicine, sexual awakening, political revolution, foreign travel, and of course, and easily my favorite, emotional and complex family drama. Written in a style of prose that allows one to forget the author is even there, Verghese really captures what it means to be human\u2014that the frailty of life isn\u2019t distinct from the strength of the spirit, but that one complements the other. ShivaMarion\u2019s story is about as moving as it gets, and I\u2019ve got a few tear stains on my Kindle to prove it. ...more But it was only now, near the end, and far too late, that the pieces suddenly - dreadfully - clicked into place. Like a long Tetris piece slamming down, making a whole block of mystery blink and vanish. Only now did he realize what suddenly seemed so obvious: everyone who had suggested this book to him \u2013 every single one \u2013 was a middle-aged woman. This book\u2026 it was about the importance of family. A wave of cold horror washed over him. It would take months of porn and comic books to counteract this But it was only now, near the end, and far too late, that the pieces suddenly - dreadfully - clicked into place. Like a long Tetris piece slamming down, making a whole block of mystery blink and vanish. Only now did he realize what suddenly seemed so obvious: everyone who had suggested this book to him \u2013 every single one \u2013 was a middle-aged woman. This book\u2026 it was about the importance of family. A wave of cold horror washed over him. It would take months of porn and comic books to counteract this book\u2019s effect.<---F> Months</---F>. ...more Many readers will tell you that Cutting for Stone is the epic story of two conjoined twins fathered by a brilliant British Surgeon and an Indian Nun. And it technically is. Narrated by Marion the first born twin we are told of every influence on his and his brother\u2019s existence. More than the story being told however, the novel is an accurate portrayal of life in all it\u2019s cruelty and wonder. The twin\u2019s mother dies in childbirth and their father abandons them minutes later. They are raised in a mi Many readers will tell you that Cutting for Stone is the epic story of two conjoined twins fathered by a brilliant British Surgeon and an Indian Nun. And it technically is. Narrated by Marion the first born twin we are told of every influence on his and his brother\u2019s existence. More than the story being told however, the novel is an accurate portrayal of life in all it\u2019s cruelty and wonder. The twin\u2019s mother dies in childbirth and their father abandons them minutes later. They are raised in a missionary medical hospital in Ethiopia. As they grow up they are forced to face their past and futures re-defining the meanings of destiny, love and family. While reading you will notice the fine points are painstakingly researched as the story is and packed full of medical jargon and situations along with vivid descriptions of Ethiopian culture and history. My only reservation in recommending the book is the novels \u201chard moments\u201d as almost every imaginable tragedy touches these brothers, and medical operations and oddities are very detailed. Squeamish readers may want to skim some of these passages. All in all, this novel is elegantly told, superbly structured and the most original piece of fiction I\u2019ve read in years. It\u2019s deserving of every positive adjective I can throw at it; marvelous, and thrilling. You will want to own and lose yourself in this book again and again. Buy it now, and thank me later. ...more \u201cMy VIP patients often regret so many things on their deathbeds. They regret the bitterness they\u2019ll leave in people\u2019s hearts. They realize that no money, no church service, no eulogy, no funeral procession no matter how elaborate can remove the legacy of a mean spirit.\u201d (<---B>Cutting for Stone, pg 434</---B>) More than a few people who\u2019ve read the novel mentioned to me that they wanted to discontinue reading the novel. And I understood what they meant, when I finished reading Cutting for Stone this last week \u201cMy VIP patients often regret so many things on their deathbeds. They regret the bitterness they\u2019ll leave in people\u2019s hearts. They realize that no money, no church service, no eulogy, no funeral procession no matter how elaborate can remove the legacy of a mean spirit.\u201d (Cutting for Stone, pg 434) More than a few people who\u2019ve read the novel mentioned to me that they wanted to discontinue reading the novel. And I understood what they meant, when I finished reading Cutting for Stone this last weekend. I had trouble with the point of view. Unlike Frankie in Angela\u2019s Ashes, Marion, the protagonist, is an adult all along, and mono-tonal. Mr. Verghese doesn\u2019t give Marion the privilege of his own voice. Marion is smothered by adult language, betrayed by the medical jargon, which is overbearing ultimately, as well as weak writing\u2014this last piece was a surprise to me. The idiom in some places puts me right in 2011 America, when in fact, we\u2019re in Ethiopia for most part of the novel\u2014mid 1900\u2019s onward. Also, an overuse of similes was irritating, and kept dragging the writing down, but most importantly, the reader can\u2019t get to Marion\u2019s soul, because weak language confounds the reader. Moreover, the shifting points of view are shoddy, and in fact, weaken the intensity of emotion that existed briefly when Dr. <---C>Thomas Stone</---C> is trying to deliver the twins. By the way, this was the most poignant scene of the novel, and then the novel degenerates slowly and painfully for the 100\u2019s of pages to come. Probably the lowest point of the novel is the coincidence (you\u2019ll find far too many coincidental meetings and appearances etc) of Genet and Marion meeting in the US. Marion is set up to be a romantic by the author, and had saved his virginity for Genet. But then enjoys a grotesque intercourse, which involves urine, blood and vaginal fluids. Marion is so turned on that he goes at it again. If I didn\u2019t feel terrible for Genet by then, I certainly did at that point. I am not sure that Mr. Verghese wanted Marion to be narcissistic and sadistic (\u201cI grabbed her shoulder and pulled her to me hard. I smelled her fever, and the scent of blood and sex and urine. I came again, pg.598)\u2014but Mr. Verghese came pretty close here. But the novel had unraveled for me earlier. Mr.Verghese simply has the hardest time developing female characters. They play stereotypical roles, except for Marion\u2019s mother, who had the potential to be very interesting as a developed character, but the author, again \u201cuses\u201d her as a plot device (wish not to reveal how for those who\u2019ve not read the novel yet). Hema, his adopted mother also has wonderful potential of becoming an interesting character, but remains flat throughout. The male characters dialogue is a notch better, but the dialogue throughout the novel is tiresome, and most characters sound like each other. There is some good dialogue from Marion\u2019s adopted father, Ghosh and Dr. Deepak, but not enough to save the novel. And poor Marion, remains a prisoner to a very brilliant individual as a novelist in Mr. Verghese, who tries desperately but fails to develop a nuanced protagonist--maybe the reason people wanted to put the novel down. I think if the novel was cut into half, it may have worked for me, given the good writing would have blossomed and caught the attention of the reader. Here\u2019s one other passage I liked: \u201c In America, my initial impression was that death or the possibility of it always seemed to come as a surprise, as if we took it for granted that we were immortal and that death was just an option.\u201d (Cutting for Stone, pg 486) ...more Recently in San Francisco I attended a reading by <---A>Abraham Verghese</---A>, who has written my favorite book of the year: CUTTING FOR STONE. I'd gotten it from the library, and after @150 pages was so in love with it that when I heard he was going to be at the store, I returned the library copy (there's a huge line waiting for it), and bought a copy just to have the pleasure of his signature. We actually had a little chat after the reading, while he happened by on his way to his car. He asked why I'd ch Recently in San Francisco I attended a reading by Abraham Verghese, who has written my favorite book of the year: CUTTING FOR STONE. I'd gotten it from the library, and after @150 pages was so in love with it that when I heard he was going to be at the store, I returned the library copy (there's a huge line waiting for it), and bought a copy just to have the pleasure of his signature. We actually had a little chat after the reading, while he happened by on his way to his car. He asked why I'd chosen his book in the first place, and I didn't have the answer, which occurred to me (like esprit d'escalier) until after he'd left: it's not the initial choosing of a book, but the journey the author takes you on that is important. I think that Tom Wolfe's I AM CHARLOTTE SIMMONS was the book that changed my life, because when I was about 50 pages in, I realized I couldn't and therefore wouldn't finish that book despite having purchased it in hard cover. Life is too short, and besides, it doesn't honor an author if you are resenting him with every page just to reach the end. So, I actually don't finish some of the books I open. There aren't enough days left in my life to squander on books I'm not enjoying. All that being said, I wish I'd thought of that when talking with this soft spoken, gentle man, and had been able to relay to him that the journey he was taking me on was so wonderful, I didn't care if I ever reached the destination. It is a vibrant, living story peopled with individuals to care about, sensual writing with more than a dash of humor and a frisson of suspense. What I did have the chance to tell him was this: I was furious with an imbicile in the audience who, if you can actually believe this, whined \"Why did you have to make it so long?\" I told Dr. Verghese that it reminded me of that scene in Amadeus, when the emperor complains \"there are too many notes,\" and Mozart, puzzled, says \"It has just the right amount of notes.\" ...more Update I didn't like the writing of this book at all, but now, after reading the Verghese's foreword to When Breath Becomes Air and being unable to get over the florid and verbose writing of that either and other people agreeing with that, I just wonder how so many people enjoyed the very similar writing in this book. _____ I tried to read this book several times but it didn't hold my attention at all. I just couldn't get into it. I realise that I am in a minority among friends for not swooning ov Update I didn't like the writing of this book at all, but now, after reading the Verghese's foreword to When Breath Becomes Air and being unable to get over the florid and verbose writing of that either and other people agreeing with that, I just wonder how so many people enjoyed the very similar writing in this book. _____ I tried to read this book several times but it didn't hold my attention at all. I just couldn't get into it. I realise that I am in a minority among friends for not swooning over the very brilliance of this book and the writing, oh the writing... but I didn't swoon. I slept. ...more My favorite parts of this sizable tome were, of course, the medical jargon and the lyrically gory descriptions of diseases and surgeries. I guess, by now I have finally and irreversibly crossed that thin line between sanity and medicine. Yes, all the descriptions of diseases and surgeries, and the handy medical mneumonics were like music to my ears. Really. Reading Verghese's Cutting for Stone reminded me of the conversations that I tend to have with my friends in the medical field - they inevita My favorite parts of this sizable tome were, of course, the medical jargon and the lyrically gory descriptions of diseases and surgeries. I guess, by now I have finally and irreversibly crossed that thin line between sanity and medicine. Yes, all the descriptions of diseases and surgeries, and the handy medical mneumonics were like music to my ears. Really. Reading Verghese's Cutting for Stone reminded me of the conversations that I tend to have with my friends in the medical field - they inevitably will deteriorate into the full-on medical jargon-fest. And they will become hard (and boring) to follow for the 'outsiders'. And I love it in a strange way. Insanity, like I said. Tell me, in what other fiction book can you read about surgery for volvulus, vaginal fistula repairs, detailed C-section and transplant surgery description, and medical conditions that are becoming increasingly rare in the US and therefore are fascinating? Where else in fiction do you get a crash review course on different kinds of cardiac murmurs or vesicovaginal fistulae and the history of their repair? Right, I thought so. Medicine is so seamlessly integrated in the very structure of this novel that it becomes a character in its own right. Nicely done, Dr. Verghese. \u201cI'm ashamed of our human capacity to hurt and maim one another, to desecrate the body. Yet it allows me to see the cabalistic harmony of heart peeking out behind lung, of liver and spleen consulting each other under the dome of the diaphragm -- these things leave me speechless.\u201d Oh, but I guess you also care about the story, and not just about my dithyrambs about the medical jargon? Okay, okay. Here is the brief synopsis of 600-plus pages: \u201cWasn't that the definition of home? Not where you are from, but where you are wanted.\u201d Twin boys Shiva and Marion (*) are born in a poor 'Missing' Hospital in Ethiopia to an Indian nun ( who died in childbirth status post a horrific and vividly described Cesarean section ) and a socially inept but talented British surgeon ( who promptly exits the twins' lives mere minutes after their birth, having almost crushed their initially conjoined heads (*) Marion is named after Marion Sims , the \"father of American gynecology\", who in the 19th century pioneered the operation for repair of vesicovaginal fistula (the abnormal communication between urethra and vagina with all the unpleasant and horrific consequences) - the operation that Shiva performs in this book. Marion Sims' work became a subject of much controversy in the 20th century since he practiced his craft without anesthesia on slave women, with unknown consent of his subjects on some of whom he operated about 30 times. The past of medicine is very often a very scary and cruel place. The boys are adopted and raised by an eccentric couple of Indian doctors at Missing - Hema and Ghosh , who in an adorable and sweet way 'renew' their marriage each year. We witness them growing up around the hospital, learning medicine from a very tender age, living through periods of Ethiopian civil unrest, and, of course, girl troubles ( Genet - the tragic girl who always tragically plays the tragic role in the brothers' tragic lives ). Both brothers decide to pursue medicine - self-taught Shiva is a gynecologist while Marion (view spoiler) [completes his surgical residency in the USA and meets his estranged father (hide spoiler) ] . More tragedy ensues, forever changing the lives of the twins, and everyone learns the value of love and family through much sadness. And it's both a bit cheesy and melodramatic and touching. \u201cWhat we are fighting isn't godlessness--this is the most godly country on earth. We aren't even fighting disease. Its poverty. Money for food, medicines... that helps. When we cannot cure or save a life, our patients can at least feel cared for. It should be a basic human right.\u201d I also rather enjoyed the descriptions of practice of medicine in a poor Ethiopian society. You can't help but sadly laugh reading about money spent by the donors on sending Bibles to the hospital while the cash-strapped hospital desperately needs equipment and medications. The lack of resources leading to the necessity of excellent physical exam skills combined with some ingenuity was really interesting. And the stark contrasts between medicine in the US and Ethiopia were fascinating as well, reminding me of the stories I hear from the physicians who go to practice medicine in Africa for a while - surreal and fascinating and yet painfully real, with stark realities of poverty dictating medical care. \u201cGod will judge us, Mr. Harris, by--by what we did to relieve the suffering of our fellow human beings. I don't think God cares what doctrine we embrace.\u201d Now, when stripped from the medicine component, the story itself did not fascinate me much. Mainly - because I did not care much for Marion, the narrator. His narrative voice is very monotone, as well as quite judgmental and, frankly, quite irritating. After hundreds and hundreds of pages listening to his voice, I still did not feel that I knew the character much. His neverending obsession with Genet was bordering on unhealthy and frightening. The subtle mystical elements of the connection between the twins Shiva and Marion are hinted at but never really followed through; we never really get to see much of it but are told without showing. Finally (view spoiler) [meeting his father (hide spoiler) ] did not have the expected emotional effect, either. The pacing was uneven as well, with the story dragging through the long sections of the narrative. And a word of warning - the description of a certain intercourse in this book is one of the most nausea-inducing things that I've ever read. Way too many bodily fluids are involved for my comfort level - and I HAVE been on the receiving end of way too many bodily fluids as a work hazard . So yeah. Be warned. The female characters were not very well-developed and weak. Genet felt caricaturish at times. Hema had potential, but did not quite live up to it. The rest of female characters are kinda just there. But in all honesty, male characters were not that much better. Marion and Shiva's surrogate father, Ghosh, is the only character who I felt actually came to life in this book. He is shown as intelligent, kind, and compassionate, and yet still flawed. He is the only character for whom I actually cared at all. \u201cLife, too, is like that. You live it forward, but understand it backward. It is only when you stop and look to the rear that you see the corpse caught under your wheel.\u201d -------------------------------------------- The verdict: 3 stars for the beautiful descriptions of medicine and a notable quotability factor, but not as much for the story itself. I am not sure whether it will appeal to a non-medical person - maybe if you have more of sentimentality than I do. \u201cAccording to Shiva, life is in the end about fixing holes. Shiva didn't speak in metaphors. fixing holes is precisely what he did. Still, it's an apt metaphor for our profession. But there's another kind of hole, and that is the wound that divides family. Sometimes this wound occurs at the moment of birth, sometimes it happens later. We are all fixing what is broken. It is the task of a lifetime. We'll leave much unfinished for the next generation.\u201d [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more \"Wasn\u2019t that the definition of home? Not where you are from, but where you are wanted?\" This book is both brilliant and breathtaking. I absolutely loved it. Abraham Verghese is not only a distinguished physician, but an extremely talented writer. The prose is some of the very best I have encountered in a novel, and the story itself is hugely compelling. Verghese takes his time setting up the story and introducing the cast of characters that will be thoroughly developed throughout the course of th \"Wasn\u2019t that the definition of home? Not where you are from, but where you are wanted?\" This book is both brilliant and breathtaking. I absolutely loved it. Abraham Verghese is not only a distinguished physician, but an extremely talented writer. The prose is some of the very best I have encountered in a novel, and the story itself is hugely compelling. Verghese takes his time setting up the story and introducing the cast of characters that will be thoroughly developed throughout the course of the novel. I gobbled this stuff right up! It\u2019s a book about home and belonging \u2013 both to your country and to your loved ones. Family is defined by those people to whom we feel the greatest connection, whether through blood or through the fulfillment of our greatest needs in life, including love, loyalty and dependability. In Addis Ababa, near the soaring heights of the Entoto Mountains in Ethiopia, Marion and Shiva Stone are twin brothers born to an Indian who is both nun and nurse and a British surgeon working together within the walls of Missing, a missionary hospital. Literally joined at birth, the twins also share a bond of brotherhood and loss that will be both strengthened and painfully tested throughout their lives. As the boys grow, they also learn the practice of medicine, both in its clinical form as well as its very compassionate service to human beings. This knowledge is gleaned through the most admirable of characters, Hema and Ghosh. I loved these two, but in particular Ghosh who is possibly one of my favorite literary personalities of all time! There is a plethora of medical descriptions here that I found quite fascinating. One is not required to have a medical-related degree to enjoy this book, but a curiosity and appreciation for the field of medicine will go a long way here. Having worked in clinical research, I did not have any difficulties \u2013 as long as my handy e-dictionary was close by for those terms unfamiliar to me. I have to issue a little word of warning here for those that may feel a bit squeamish when presented with some of the more graphic details of medicine. Although I may have flinched once or twice, that didn\u2019t stop me from reading! Due to family social ties to some very powerful forces within Ethiopia, Marion and Shiva find that they are not exempt from the effects of the political upheaval during the reign of Emperor Haile Selassie. When catastrophe lands on their own doorstep, the twins will learn even more about the true meaning of family. I found that I learned quite a lot about Ethiopian history and current events and it was all very illuminating. I gained a better understanding of the geography of this African country and absorbed some very vivid images like this one: \"I stepped out to the lawn. I remember the air that night, and how it was so brisk that it could revive the dead. The fragrance of eucalyptus stoking a home fire, the smell of wet grass, of dung fuel, of tobacco, of swamp air, and the perfume of hundreds of roses \u2013 this was the scent of Missing. No, it was the scent of a continent.\" Heartbreaking and uplifting, Cutting for Stone is a treasure that I highly recommend. Medicine, foreign cultures, politics, coming-of-age, abandonment, betrayal, and love are all elements woven together to construct a real masterpiece of writing. The ending was both poignant and astonishing. I loved it. \"The world turns on our every action, and our every omission, whether we know it or not.\" ...more Beautifully written, engrossing novel plants you deeply in the passion of practicing medicine, winds you intimately into the cloth of Ethiopia. Verghese uses language so elegantly and paces his story so perfectly that I was totally transported. I finished the book feeling homesick for Addis Ababa, although I have never been there. When I signed up (in several places) to review early editions of books on my blog and in other viral / social media places (like Facebook), I had that little hope that I Beautifully written, engrossing novel plants you deeply in the passion of practicing medicine, winds you intimately into the cloth of Ethiopia. Verghese uses language so elegantly and paces his story so perfectly that I was totally transported. I finished the book feeling homesick for Addis Ababa, although I have never been there. When I signed up (in several places) to review early editions of books on my blog and in other viral / social media places (like Facebook), I had that little hope that I would be one of the first to discover a great new treasure and then be part of making sure the world knew about it. I was sent the uncorrected proof courtesy of an offer from Alfred A. Knopf in the daily \"Shelf Awareness\" email newsletter. Thanks, Al. The good news is - this early edition of Cutting for Stone is exactly that rare gem I was hoping to find! The slightly less good news is - so many more high-profile reviewers are already raving about it, so Verghese probably doesn't need my help in the slightest. Still, I feel lucky to be one of the first readers. It's hard to imagine another book unseating this as my favorite of 2009. For me, it was right up there with East of Eden. Now excuse me while I run out to eat a hearty meal at the one spot in all of Austin serving Injera and veggie Wott. ...more I'm going to start this review doing something I've never done before and that is tell what I didn't like right away. The reason for this is because I want to spend the rest of the time enumerating many of the good points. Believe me, there are a lot of those! The only two faults I see in Cutting for Stone is that there is a lot of medical jargon. I'm surprised at the number of people who have read the book and liked it considering the length. Fortunately, my ten years of working in the medical f I'm going to start this review doing something I've never done before and that is tell what I didn't like right away. The reason for this is because I want to spend the rest of the time enumerating many of the good points. Believe me, there are a lot of those! The only two faults I see in Cutting for Stone is that there is a lot of medical jargon. I'm surprised at the number of people who have read the book and liked it considering the length. Fortunately, my ten years of working in the medical field came in handy.However, I could understand other readers either having to keep a dictionary handy or just giving up on the book. Secondly, as a friend pointed out, the characters stay kind of hazy throughout the book. This is hard to explain, because they each have definite personalities, but they don't come into clear focus. More about this later in the \"good\" section. Okay, the negative part is over. On to the good! I read this in conjunction with two other GR friends and enjoyed the experience very much! Their insights and opinions contributed greatly. One thing we all agreed on was that Ghosh was a terrific character in this book. If I could wave my hands over a book and make a character come alive, he'd be one of the ones at the top of my list. What's not to like? So many times, in the process of trying to make realistic characters, I think authors lose sight of the fact that there are some people in this world who are truly good. Before anyone who hasn't read this book, thinks that Ghosh is a goody-goody, he's not. He had his faults. These come to light towards the end of the book, but they don't detract from him because the reader watches him grow into this unselfish, loving, caring person. I loved the characters in this book. As a twin, the twin-think described early on in the book is so right on. Verghese does an awesome job of allowing the reader to see how the twins see themselves as ShivaMarion until the day one of them ventures into his own individual world. There are some wonderful contrasts in this story that express differences in cultures and people. Shiva vs. Marion; Ethiopia operating theaters vs American operating rooms;Ethiopia rich vs American poor; bad Ethiopian government vs even worse Ethiopian government; and so much more.... Sometimes, I read books and wonder where the title came from. Not this one. There were two instances in the book where the phrase cutting for stone was used. In the beginning, it seems that it is an Ethiopian term for surgery and then later in the book women needing fistula surgery carried placards reading \"cutting for Stone\" implying a need for Shiva Stone's medical expertise. Since I love reading about other cultures, this book enlightened me in regards to what prison is like in Ethiopia. The living conditions, lack of medical care available to the majority of Ethiopians, the daily fear, corruption in everyday life are generally born by the common person. Even though the characters (with the exception of Ghosh) didn't really have faces, somehow experiencing Ethiopia made that aspect of the book a minor complaint. This is a book I'm glad I read. 4.5 stars ...more This had the potential to be amazing, a sweeping epic history of Ethiopia ala The Poisonwood Bible , but for all of Verghese's description, he failed to paint a powerful picture of Ethiopia. I expected so much more from him. He wastes 20% of the book describing the first day, but most of it I found pointless to the novel. I would much rather all that description give me something of the setting, of the characters, something powerful and enduring. Either that or cut it by a good 200 pages. But I w This had the potential to be amazing, a sweeping epic history of Ethiopia ala The Poisonwood Bible , but for all of Verghese's description, he failed to paint a powerful picture of Ethiopia. I expected so much more from him. He wastes 20% of the book describing the first day, but most of it I found pointless to the novel. I would much rather all that description give me something of the setting, of the characters, something powerful and enduring. Either that or cut it by a good 200 pages. But I wouldn't cut the medical procedures. They gave me the setting Ethiopia did not. They also painted a picture of the characters. The coldness of Thomas Stone, the dedication of Sister Mary Joseph Praise, the drive for Hema, the heart of Ghosh, the genius of Shiva, and the preciseness of Marion. All of it can be described by the medical fields they practiced. I think Ghosh was my favorite character. I can picture his hearty laugh now. I enjoyed Marion's relationship with Shiva and in the end that's what's fundamental to the book, their love, their distance, their painful understanding of each other. I liked Marion as a protagonist. I connected with his methodical and inactive responses. Genet was the character I struggled with the most. Of all the characters, she was the least fleshed out for so long, and yet, the most important to Marion, our protagonist. I struggled with the scene of her getting all hot and bothered by Shiva talking about sex. Only a man would write that and I didn't believe it. A lot of what she did was a little too convenient to maximum Marion's story and she didn't feel organic to me. Every time she showed up in the book, I knew something tragic was going to happen that didn't feel right for the story. In the end, I liked the book. Somewhere around 400 pages I didn't want to put the book down. But it shouldn't have taken me 400 pages to get there. I should have been drawn in by the first 50, or the very least the first 100. The characters should have been stronger, the setting, the fake history (I would much rather real events had been intertwined with the story). None of it was as strong as the medicine. ...more Before you read this book, consider this: the book was printed with an average of 425 words per page for 541 pages in an almost minus zero font size. That jerked my chain a bit, so I did not begin reading this book in quite the right frame of mind. But who in their right mind would like to put down a book beginning like this: \"My brother, Shiva, and I came into the world in the late afternoon of the twentieth of September in the year of Grace 1954. We took our first breath in the thin air, 8 000 Before you read this book, consider this: the book was printed with an average of 425 words per page for 541 pages in an almost minus zero font size. That jerked my chain a bit, so I did not begin reading this book in quite the right frame of mind. But who in their right mind would like to put down a book beginning like this: \"My brother, Shiva, and I came into the world in the late afternoon of the twentieth of September in the year of Grace 1954. We took our first breath in the thin air, 8 000 feet above sea level, of the capital city of Ethiopia, Addis Ababa.\" \"Bound by birth, we were driven apart by bitter betrayal. No surgeon can heal the wound that divides two brothers. Where silk and steel fail, story must succeed.\" The twins, Drs. Marion , and Shiva Praise Stone, were born to a nun, Sister Mary Joseph Praise from the Carmalite Order of Madras, who were sent with Sister Anjali to darkest Africa to serve in hospitals. She would end up at the \"Missing\"(Mission) hospital of Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, via Aden in Yemen, with a dark secret she cold never share. \"Sister Mary Joseph was a Malayali Christian. She could trace her faith back to St. Thomas's arrival in India from Damascus in A.D. 52. \"Doubting\" Thomas built his first churches in Karala well before St. Peter got to Rome.\" \"To her parents' chagrin, my mother became a Carmalite none,abandoning the ancient Syrian Christian tradition of St. Thomas to embrace (in her parents view) this Johnny-come-lately, pope-worshipping sect... It was a good thing her parents didn't know that she was also a nurse, which to them would mean that she soiled her hands like an untouchable.\" In the first 109 pages the background to the birth is introduced and when the birth finally takes place with high drama, I sighed with relief. Pardon my momental snarkyness, but I almost put down the book and moved on. At first the book did not tickle my cor musculi really, it often rather annoyed the Musculus sphincter ani internus instead! The good thing was that the book distinctly distinguished itself from a romance novel by allocating 109 pages to the birth of the twins instead of to coitus , although it did challenge my knowledge of Latin and anatomy to the extreme. The good thing about romance novels is that they do not use Latin a thousand times to breath, whisper, huff, puff, holler and cry, \"I Love You.\" This book did not do it either, thank goodness, but I was holding my breath! With the intensity and detail the characters' lives, especially those of the twins, were initially colored in with Latin so lavishly splashed all over it, anything was possible! And everything pointed to a great love story in the making after all! Yes, I was equally as impressed as I was slightly blowing steam off through my nares by being constantly dropped into the world of Latin by a surgeon (Dr.Thomas Stone) whose work was his life hiding his \"social retardiness\" - as expressed by his colleagues. I did not want to read a medical journal at all ! The love of Latin genetically moves forward to the next generation. Marion would as a young boy discover the magic: \"I loved those Latin words for their dignity, their foreigness and that my tongue had to wrap around them. I felt that in learning the special language of a scholarly order, I was amassing a kind of force. This was the poor and noble side of the world, uncorrupted by secrets and trickery.\" Dr. Gosh was of the opinion that the language of love and medicine was the same \"Take off your shirt. Open your mouth. Take a deep breath.\" . The surgeon, Dr. Thomas Stone, would have disagreed. He would have insisted on Latin near, or on, any bed! That's all he really understood. And this is where I almost gave up on the book, not because it was not well written - it was in fact brilliantly prosed from the start, but because it seemed as though I needed to order a Latin dictionary first and do at least six years of medical school before I could proceed and I was just not in the mood for it! If the storyline was to be taken away, it could have been a well-texted book on practicing medicine in the tropics. As a young boy, Marion would receive his first stethoscope from Dr.Gosh. Was there more in this gift than the eyes could see? Was he trying to teach this boy how to find the secrets behind his parents and he and his brother's birth? : \"He invited me into a world that was not secret, but it was well hidden. You needed a guide. You had to know what to look for, but also how to look. You had to exert yourself to see this world. But if you did, if you had that kind of curiosity, if you had an innate interest in the welfare of your fellow human beings, and if you went through that door, a strange thing happened: you left your petty troubles on the threshold. It could be addictive.\" It is exactly the reason why I just could not put the bloody book down, for, believe me, bloody it was! Buckets full of it! The narrative focuses mostly on the lives of the two twins in their growing up years and which events and people would structure their characters / personalities / destinies. In the end the expression comes to mind: \"It is not what happens to you, but how you handle it, that counts.\" The tale is an intense, well-researched, well-written novel introducing the fascinating societies of Addis Ababa - Ethopia, Madras - India, New York & Boston in the USA. The book blends African politics, people, compassion, love, fast paced adventure and fiction in such a way that all readers from all walks of life, especially hospital-story junkies, interested in this beautiful but harsh African continent, will find some aspect of the book agreeable and worth reading. One of my favorite Mark Twain aphorisms is: \"I can live for two months on a good compliment.\" For me it is not a compliment but strings of words having me wonder around in sheer delirious bliss! Abraham Verghese rooted me to the book with prose like this: \"There was three spaced knocks on the door of Matron's office. \"Come in,\" Matron said,and with those words Missing was on a course different than anyone could have imagined. It was at the start of the rainy season, when Addis was stunned into wet submission.\" There are sweet anecdotal moments such as this: Dr. Marion Praise Stone, the narrator, recounts a moment in their childhood: \"In our household, you had to dive into the din and push to the front if you wanted to be heard. The foghorn voice was Ghosh's, echoing and tailing off into laughter. Hema was the songbird, but when provoked her voice was as sharp as Saladin's scimitar,which, according to my Richard the Lion Hearted and the Crusades , could divide a silk scarf allowed to float down onto the blade's edge. Almaz, our cook, may have been silent on the outside, but her lips moved constantly, whether in prayer or song,no one knew. Rosina took silence as a personal offense, and spoke into empty rooms and chattered into cupboards. Genet, almost six years old of age, was showing signs of taking after her mother, telling herself stories about herself in a singsong voice, creating her own mythology.\" Initially there is a deceitful tranquility present in the rhythm of the prose. The author used an ingenious method to pacify the reader while having an addictive mixture of tension and drama bubbling and boiling underneath. Marion never wanted to sit in the twin-stroller playing with his wooden truck like his brother. Marion wanted an adult view on the world. Rosina had to constantly carry him around. The epiphany, for me, happened here: P.184: \"...the kitchen was alive. Steam rises in plumes as Almaz clangs lids on and off the pots. The silver weight on the pressure cooker jiggles and whistles. Almaze's sure hands chop onions, tomatoes, and fresh coriander, making hillocks that dwarf the tiny mounds of ginger and garlic. ... A mad alchemist she throws a pinch of this, a fistful of that, then wets her fingers and flings that moisture into the mortar. She pounds with the pestle, the wet, crunchy thunk thunk soon changes to the sound of stone on stone. ...Mustard seeds explode in the hot oil. She holds a lid over the pan to fend off the missiles. Rat-a-tat! like hail on the tin roof. She adds the cumin seeds, which sizzles, darken and crackle. A dry, fragrant smoke chases out the mustard scent. Only then are the onions added, handfuls of them, and now the sound is that of life being spawned in a primordial fire. Rosina abruptly hands me over to Almaz... I whimper on Almaz's shoulder, perilously close to the bubbling cauldrons. Almaz puts down the laddle and shifts me to her hip. Reaching into her blouse,\tgrunting with effort, she fishes out her breast. \"Here it is,\" she says, putting it in my hands for safekeeping...Almaz, who hardly speaks, resumes stirring, humming a tune. It is as if the breast no more belongs to her than does the laddle.\" This scene above acted as a metaphor for this book: so seemingly uncomplicated, innocent and serene on the surface, but exploding with energy under the lid! What was hidden in the mixture would ultimately add meaning and definition, like exquisite aromas from a pot-pourri of herbs and spices to the people's lives. The experience will be hot and penetrating; sweet and scrumptious, heavy and often \"indigestably\" cruel. From then on things started to happen rapidly, the drama increased leaving the reader mesmerized and in complete wonder! The story was brilliantly constructed, although it could have been a 100 pages shorter, in my opinion. There were almost an endless role of \"Latinish\"-like hospital scenes that leaves the impression of the author expressing opinions through a novel instead of getting his ideas published elsewhere. I was surprised, when thinking back on the role of each person in the narrative, how each one of them made an amazing contribution to the story! The characters was well developed; the denouement at the end of all the elements a huge surprise. The story completes a full unbelievable circle, which really had me sitting back in total amazement. The end left me breathless....and yes speechless...! And when I started recounting all the elements in the book I was amazed at the unusual brilliant tale it was. A Great read! ...more I hope it\u2019s not too self-indulgent to start with a personal history here. The first I ever heard of this was when Amazon sent me one of those \u201csince you liked x, we recommend y\u201d mails. So right off the bat I was predisposed against it. Who wants some algorithm deciding things for them? [Insert wink that\u2019s more than a little ironic given that I\u2019m in the algo biz myself.] My second time hearing of it was when a nice older lady at a charity book sale was telling me how much she enjoyed it. While I I hope it\u2019s not too self-indulgent to start with a personal history here. The first I ever heard of this was when Amazon sent me one of those \u201csince you liked x, we recommend y\u201d mails. So right off the bat I was predisposed against it. Who wants some algorithm deciding things for them? [Insert wink that\u2019s more than a little ironic given that I\u2019m in the algo biz myself.] My second time hearing of it was when a nice older lady at a charity book sale was telling me how much she enjoyed it. While I don\u2019t automatically dismiss what we might imagine is the Doily and Crumpet Club\u2019s book of the month, I do resist seeing the correlation climb too high. Then came the turning point. My friend, the ever-popular Jason, gave it enthusiastic thumbs up here . He even likened it to Middlesex , one of my favorites. It was only a week later that I saw a copy at the annual book fair in Chicago. The vendor was a worse-for-the-wear guy from downstate with bad teeth and scraggly hair. He seemed to know a lot about every book he had including the Orhan Pamuk my wife picked up. Approval of my choice from the guy more dedicated to books than personal hygiene sealed the deal. And I\u2019m glad. It\u2019s a great story and an even greater education. The bulk of the action is set in a mission hospital in Ethiopia where we learn a lot about medicine (underfunded though it may be) as well as the culture and history of the Selassie-led nation. The book focuses on identical twin boys, Shiva and Marion. They had been joined at the head at birth and were lucky to have survived the separation. Their upbringing was lucky in another way. When in the first hour after birth your mother, a nurse and devout nun from India, dies, and your father from the secret union, a brilliant English surgeon but the one who botched the operation, bolts, you need all the luck you can get. This came in the form of fellow doctors at the mission who adopted them. Hema and Ghosh, the adopting parents, also took in a young girl named Genet along with her servant mother. It was all one big happy family for a while but conflict was inevitable. It came in political, sexual, and moral forms. The narrative sweep extends into adulthood, through armed conflicts, a stint in New York, and medical traumas. These different stories matter to us more because the characters are so well-developed. You\u2019ll be pleased to know that emotional investments here earn returns rarely seen in assets these days. Verghese himself is a doctor so his book about doctors might easily have been didactic or hagiographic. I never got that sense, though. The technical details of surgery were integrated well within the story. They never seemed gratuitous. Both Marion, who narrates, and Shiva were also doctors. It was good to have a narrator who was three-dimensional and imperfect (especially when it came to Genet, his fleshly id\u00e9e fixe). And he puffed less than he might have about his profession. I never thought of the book as preachy either, despite its moral elements. The only real flaws I perceived were 1) the first person account that occasionally became too omniscient, and, 2) a case of coincidence near the end that felt like an odd polyhedral peg somehow winding up at the exact hole to fit through. The feeling of contrivance broke the spell, but it was cast again soon enough. The later tightening in my throat was testament to that. Verghese is also a very self-assured writer. In combination, knowing how to save lives, teaching at Stanford, and attending the Iowa Writers\u2019 Workshop must translate to confidence on the page. I certainly won\u2019t hold his writing education against him (though I might have preferred hearing that his talent was purely a function of genius, not, in part, programmed). In any case, it was that unobtrusive style of writing that calls very little attention to itself. The pacing was good, the nonlinearities were effective (never confusing), and the sense of foreshadowing was masterful. Who cares if it was just good coaching \u2013 it worked. I\u2019ve been vacillating between 4 and 5 stars. It\u2019s Friday today and my spirit is more generous. So 5 it is. Besides, when I think back on what made me like this book so much, it comes down to its genuine appeal to our better angels. It was more than just platitudes. Faith and doctrine were trumped by real compassion and attention to those who suffer. It made me want to be a better person. Read it and see if you agree. Then we\u2019ll meet for injera bread and spicy wot and talk about Ghosh (so caring and wise), Hema (the talented obstetrician and protective mom), Matron (the brave and pragmatic head of the mission), and ShivaMarion (the twinned entity who continued to sleep head-to-head throughout childhood, had an almost psychic connection despite many differences, and were fascinating to observe in how their shared empathy and antipathy played out). ...more This is the one that started me. I read a galley and it will be published February 2. It was a sublime reading experience, the best novel I have read in several years. Back in the old days of Just Books, I probably would not have let a customer out of the store without the book in hand. In some places that might be considered pushy. In Greenwich, it was a gushing \"Thanks Warren for putting this book in my hands.\" Anyway, this is the story of twin doctors separated at their birth in a hospital in This is the one that started me. I read a galley and it will be published February 2. It was a sublime reading experience, the best novel I have read in several years. Back in the old days of Just Books, I probably would not have let a customer out of the store without the book in hand. In some places that might be considered pushy. In Greenwich, it was a gushing \"Thanks Warren for putting this book in my hands.\" Anyway, this is the story of twin doctors separated at their birth in a hospital in Ethiopia. The mother who had been an Indian nurse/nun died as a result of denying the pregnancy's existence and not getting any prenatal care. The twins are raised by two Indian doctors who bring them up as their own children. The mother is a very independent woman who will marry her colleague only on condition they will renew their vows every year. The twins grow up to be a physician (what else) and a medical researcher. Their journey as a family and as individuals envelops you more and more every page. This too was outstanding ...more Cutting for Stone was like a challenging round of golf for me. Sorry for the analogy, but here goes for anyone who has never played the most enjoyable, yet frustrating sport ever invented. I grew up playing all sorts of sports: tennis, softball, volleyball, etc. With most sports you can have a great game, but one error can ruin your enjoyment and subsequent memory of that experience. Conversely, most of us suck big time at golf. We hook, we slice, we lose ball after ball and yet if all we have is Cutting for Stone was like a challenging round of golf for me. Sorry for the analogy, but here goes for anyone who has never played the most enjoyable, yet frustrating sport ever invented. I grew up playing all sorts of sports: tennis, softball, volleyball, etc. With most sports you can have a great game, but one error can ruin your enjoyment and subsequent memory of that experience. Conversely, most of us suck big time at golf. We hook, we slice, we lose ball after ball and yet if all we have is one great shot in 18 holes, it becomes the most exciting memorable moment of our day. And it's that excitement which drives us back to the golf course to recapture those moments of elation. Cutting for Stone was a tough book for me. It's well written with lots of detail about medicine and surgery which wasn't always enjoyable, but I struggled through it because there are certain gems embedded throughout the story that caused me to ponder bigger issues like life choices, family relationships the greater journey and meaning of life. The book is long, but epic in it's scope. I'm not sure how the author could have shortened the story. The level of detail was both important and frustrating. It's what helps the reader live the story along with the characters and I love a good character driven novel even if I don't always understand their motivation completely. Don't let my review scare you... give it a try. I promise you'll only remember the best parts. ...more All the stars! I loved this story! Some books have a hypnotic effect and they leave you in a state of haziness when you finish them. Cutting for Stone has been such a book for me. It is a beautiful novel because it succeeds in creating endearing personalities. Apart from this, there is very little I can add to the very many reviews in GR, or to what the author has presented in the \u201cStanford Book Salon\u201d. He acted as the Faculty Host when they chose this book in their monthly reading. As I do not belong to the medical community, I fo Some books have a hypnotic effect and they leave you in a state of haziness when you finish them. Cutting for Stone has been such a book for me. It is a beautiful novel because it succeeds in creating endearing personalities. Apart from this, there is very little I can add to the very many reviews in GR, or to what the author has presented in the \u201cStanford Book Salon\u201d. He acted as the Faculty Host when they chose this book in their monthly reading. As I do not belong to the medical community, I found, as many other readers, that the abundant medical content required more concentration on my part. But I did not mind. It helped to create a setting of doctors (most of the characters are, and a crucial part of the action takes place in SurgeryRoom3), and to get a glimpse of a medical mind, especially that of a surgeon\u2019s. For example, visiting the patient just after succesful surgery can become addictive, because of its exhilarating effect. Or how nerve-wracking it must be to hold in one\u2019s hands, literally, the heart of a beloved person. I think it would drive me mad. It has also been very enriching to learn about Ethiopia and to speculate on how history would have been different if the ancient Ethiopia (Aksumite kingdom) had succeeded in being an alternative Empire to Rome\u2019s. I have started already some vague plans to visit the place (and not just its restaurants to taste the inviting injera). ...more WOW!! What an Amazing, Epic, Journey!! 5 \"Heart Rending, Family Saga\" Stars!! \u201cLife, too, is like that. You live it forward, but understand it backward. It is only when you stop and look to the rear that you see the corpse caught under your wheel.\u201d Sister Mary Joseph Praise This book left me speechless in the end. This was such a beautiful story, focusing on family, love, and tragic loss. We are introduced to Sister Mary Joseph Praise. A young nun that embarks on a journey, starting in India, and WOW!! What an Amazing, Epic, Journey!! 5 \"Heart Rending, Family Saga\" Stars!! \u201cLife, too, is like that. You live it forward, but understand it backward. It is only when you stop and look to the rear that you see the corpse caught under your wheel.\u201d Sister Mary Joseph Praise This book left me speechless in the end. This was such a beautiful story, focusing on family, love, and tragic loss. We are introduced to Sister Mary Joseph Praise. A young nun that embarks on a journey, starting in India, and ending at Missing Hospital in Ethiopia. Sister Mary Joseph Praise is loved and respected by all, so it is beyond shocking to discover that she is with child!! Missing Hospital \u201cWhat we are fighting isn't godlessness--this is the most godly country on earth. We aren't even fighting disease. Its poverty. Money for food, medicines... that helps. When we cannot cure or save a life, our patients can at least feel cared for. It should be a basic human right.\u201d Missing Hospital becomes the main location for the wonderful tale. It is home to all a hodge podge of doctors and nuns, that have come to share their skills with the less fortunate citizens of Addis Abba. Ethiopia eventually has civil unrest and a coupe to overthrow the current regime arises. The government/ monarch trusts no one, so life isn't always safe, even for the physicians at Missing Hospital. Dr. Thomas Stone Dr. Stone is a surgeon from England. He meets Sister Mary Joseph Praise on a ship while traveling from India to Ethiopia. These two share a history, and events unfold during their journey that set the stage for a heart wrenching love story. Stone is a difficult man, but a brilliant surgeon. He is socially awkward and in love with a woman that has pledged her life to God. \u201cI'm so sorry,\" Stone said. I don't know whether he was speaking to me, or Ghosh, or the universe. It wasn't enough, but it was about time.\u201d \u201cA rich man's faults are covered with money, but a surgeon's faults are covered with earth.\u201d The Love Child of Dr. Thomas Stone and Sister Mary Joseph Praise is a shock to all at Missing Hospital. Yet these two are so loved, that their offspring are embraced by all. Addis Abba Marion Stone \u201cAs a child I'd longed for Thomas Stone or at least the idea of him. So many mornings I waited for him at the gates of Missing. I saw that vigil now as necessary, a prerequisite for my insides to harden and cure just like the willow of a cricket bat must cure to be ready for a lifetime of knocks. That was the lesson at Missing's gates: the world does not owe you and neither does your father.\u201d Marion is the narrator and you can't help but love him. He is wise beyond his years, yet naive to things that are right in front of him. We follow his life from a toddler in Addis Abba, to a grown man working as a surgeon in the United States. His life is full of love and tragedy. He falls in love with Ginnett. A beautiful girl with an untamed spirit. Shiva Stone \u201cPray tell us, what's your favorite number?\"... \"Shiva jumped up to the board, uninvited, and wrote 10,213,223\"... \"And pray, why would this number interest us?\" \"It is the only number that describes itself when you read it, 'One zero, two ones, three twos, two threes'.\u201d Shiva Stone is brilliant!! He's all numbers and logic. He is never embarrassed or feels awkward, because his is comfortable in his skin. He doesn't show emotion, or express himself like others do. He is a breath of fresh air. Ginnett \u201cI was angry with myself because I still loved her, or at least I loved that dream of our togetherness. My feelings were unreasonable, irrational, and I couldn't change them. That hurt.\u201d Ginnett was my least favorite character in this book. She was an easy scapegoat even though her mother was the true cause to her downfall. I HATED her mother. Hema and Ghosh \u201cThere is a point when grief exceeds the human capacity to emote, and as a result one is strangely composed-she had reached that point.\u201d \u201cMy VIP patients often regret so many things on their deathbeds. They regret the bitterness they'll leave in people's hearts. They realize the no money, no church service, no eulogy, no funeral procession no matter how elaborate, can remove the legacy of a mean spirit.\u201d Hema and Gosh are both doctors at Missing Hospital. Hema is a Gynecologist and Gosh focused on internal medicine. I absolutely loved these two. They were the heroes of this tale. Always doing what was right to save the ones they loved. Gosh was so wise and loving, patient, and kind. Hema had a tough exterior, but her heart was made of gold. Fistula hospital Ethiopian Food This book is an Epic story about a family and all it's ups and downs. We travel from India, to Ethiopia, and to the United States. The author is so descriptive that I feel as if I have actually been to the places he describes. We also experience love, that is all consuming, and gut wrenching tragedy. This all felt so real, yet it is just an Amazing, beautiful work of fiction. This is without a doubt the Best Book I have read in a long time!! This book is a bit long, but it's worth it!! I highly recommend this 5 star read. Bravo!!! Bravo!!! ...more As usual, I will not summarize the plot here, merely comment on my reaction to this book. The essences of the story are many- love/lust, heartbreak and humiliation,the ability to forgive and the trials and tribulations of life and death. It is difficult to know where to start with all of these complex, interwoven themes. Verghese has undertaken a novel which is very broad and ambitious in scope. His geographic sweep travels from Asia, to Africa, to America, with the major part in Ethiopia. The la As usual, I will not summarize the plot here, merely comment on my reaction to this book. The essences of the story are many- love/lust, heartbreak and humiliation,the ability to forgive and the trials and tribulations of life and death. It is difficult to know where to start with all of these complex, interwoven themes. Verghese has undertaken a novel which is very broad and ambitious in scope. His geographic sweep travels from Asia, to Africa, to America, with the major part in Ethiopia. The landscape and the people are portrayed realistically and with clarity. In Addis Ababa, one can clearly envision the poverty and the discrepancies between the classes that existed there. Although the chronology of the political turmoil in Ethiopia is altered for the purposes of the story, it is evident how the populace was efected. An interesting feature is the title, Cutting for Stone , itself. I spent much time thinking about this through most of my reading. There are references to this term in several areas of the narrative, one most clearly in the latter part of the story. One could conjecture that it alludes to Dr. Stone, a surgeon. The Hippocratic Oath includes, \"I will not cut for stone, even for patients in whom the disease is manifest: I will leave this operation to be performed by practitioners, specialists in this art.\" The practise of \"cutting for stone\" was also employed at one time to root out mental illness with cranial trephination. My medical experience served me well while reading. For the most part,Verghese's profession as a physician and author was well blended with his accuracy and extensive descriptions of medical conditions and procedures. Although I found these factors stimulating and enjoyable, I wondered how those less immersed in medicine might react. There were a few occasions where I thought certain surgical procedures strained credibility. In particular, the conjoining of the twins was a half-hearted effort. The last part of the book seemed to disintegrate with many coincidences occuring. The use of the backstory was also disturbing. Many events seemed to have happened previously so that when the reader becomes fully informed, the information seems belated and less well integrated into the novel. Despite any negative criticisms I appreciated Verghese's ambitious eforts and enjoyed reading this novel. ...more I wish I still had this book in my future. I wish it were tucked away in a stack of books on my nightstand, waiting patiently for its turn to be read. I wish I were going home tonight to curl up in a chair with nothing to do but pick up this book and slowly -- savoringly, if that's a word* -- take it in, one page at a time. There's a lot to say about this book, but I'll simplify what could otherwise become a lengthy review (Me? Verbose? Nevah! ) and say this: Cutting for Stone is a beautifully wr I wish I still had this book in my future. I wish it were tucked away in a stack of books on my nightstand, waiting patiently for its turn to be read. I wish I were going home tonight to curl up in a chair with nothing to do but pick up this book and slowly -- savoringly, if that's a word* -- take it in, one page at a time. There's a lot to say about this book, but I'll simplify what could otherwise become a lengthy review (Me? Verbose? Nevah! ) and say this: Cutting for Stone is a beautifully written story about fate, love and forgiveness. But see, even that doesn't quite do it justice, because it makes it sound like the next Oprah's Book Club selection. Sorry, Ops, but this book is so much more than that. It was the first story I've read in a long time that genuinely swept me away. It left me in tears at times, but always through the essence of the story -- never through manipulative sap. Its words were painterly -- careful but expressive. This is one for the esteemed shelf of my living room bookcase. *Autocorrect tells me it is not. ...more I liked CUTTING FOR STONE, but ultimately, it disappointed. I'd heard such glowing reviews, perhaps I was setting my self up to be underwhelmed. Still, I found Marion, the narrator, very distant and was not able to engage with his character at all. The books contains some interesting detail about the advent of several medical procedures, and I did find the end of the book much more emotionally satisfying than the beginning and middle, but in the end, it wasn't enough. Verghese is a wonderful des I liked CUTTING FOR STONE, but ultimately, it disappointed. I'd heard such glowing reviews, perhaps I was setting my self up to be underwhelmed. Still, I found Marion, the narrator, very distant and was not able to engage with his character at all. The books contains some interesting detail about the advent of several medical procedures, and I did find the end of the book much more emotionally satisfying than the beginning and middle, but in the end, it wasn't enough. Verghese is a wonderful descriptive writer--Ethiopia, India, and the Bronx come alive--and I would encourage others to give this a shot, but to me, it was distant, a little slow, and for the most part, unsatisfying. ...more Such a great book.., A deeply affecting story of life and death and the wonders of medicine. It is hard to beleive this is a work of fiction so compelling is the bond between two brothers and the extended family that colours their lives. Brimming with medical insight and vividly set in mid-century Ethiopia this tale transports you to another time and place. Family, blood, betrayal and forgiveness... Cutting for Stone is a requiem to the healing power of love. FANTASTIC!!!!!!!!!!! I'm back again --(my friend Debbie told me I could 'edit' my own review')... I want to say 'something' about this book again. I've given many 5 stars on books I've read ---which then makes THIS book a 5 ++++ star book! Its exceptional! Every book club in the Bay Area was reading it at one time. The author 'always' had PACKED FULL rooms of people coming to hear him speak on this book. (I heard him speak twice). Much could be discussed about this wonderful novel. Note: There are t FANTASTIC!!!!!!!!!!! I'm back again --(my friend Debbie told me I could 'edit' my own review')... I want to say 'something' about this book again. I've given many 5 stars on books I've read ---which then makes THIS book a 5 ++++ star book! Its exceptional! Every book club in the Bay Area was reading it at one time. The author 'always' had PACKED FULL rooms of people coming to hear him speak on this book. (I heard him speak twice). Much could be discussed about this wonderful novel. Note: There are two graphic scenes --(remember --a medical doctor wrote it) --- but this story takes you into a world where you loose yourself -- Also--the writing is breathtaking! I've read all 3 of this authors books (the other two are 'non-fiction). I've liked them all --- Yet--I also have a special heart for his other book called \"The Tennis Player\". ...more I've been trying to find a few minutes to say a few words about Cutting for Stone. I didn't want to rush my take on this as I wanted to do the book justice. This is always scary territory for me, telling why I liked or disliked a book, more so when I really liked the book. Abraham Verghese is an extremely gifted story teller, weaving his story of co-joined twins born to an Indian nun in Ethiopia with intricacy. The birth alone builds in 109 breathtaking pages and could stand alone for me. It is I've been trying to find a few minutes to say a few words about Cutting for Stone. I didn't want to rush my take on this as I wanted to do the book justice. This is always scary territory for me, telling why I liked or disliked a book, more so when I really liked the book. Abraham Verghese is an extremely gifted story teller, weaving his story of co-joined twins born to an Indian nun in Ethiopia with intricacy. The birth alone builds in 109 breathtaking pages and could stand alone for me. It is a story of brothers though starting life in the womb as one, are separated physically at their birth by the surgeon who might be their father, and emotionally thereafter. Twins are a special breed and Marion/Shiva are no exception. There is love, betrayal, sex, hatred and revenge in this saga that takes us from Africa to Our lady of Perpetual Succour, a poor neighborhood New York hospital. Both twins practice medicine but their training and fields of expertise couldn't be further apart. Each deals with the question of their parentage in their own way and each carry scars that are difficult to heal. Readers who like a strong medical story should love Cutting for Stone as the descriptions of surgery and procedure are interesting and believable. There is also enough background of the political happenings in Ethiopia to hold the interest of history lovers. But the strongest appeal for me is the development of the characters, not only Marion/Shiva but of all the players that make this story jump off the pages. Just one of these is Genet, the girl/woman who is like a sister and so much of each boy/man's life. Verghese is also strong in description and the book itself comes in at 534 pages. I was never bored. Each year a group of librarians and library staff vote for their favorite books. Thankfully they include a \"best older book\" read in 2010 as a category. Cutting for Stone was published in 2009. I'm glad I'll be able to give it my vote. ...more 4 1/2 stars About a year ago a very good friend read this book \u2013 or tried to \u2013 she gave up very early on stating that it she didn\u2019t have the stomach for the medical procedures in the book. It left an imprint on me to avoid the book but for some reason I kept on circling back to it. The point of the above story is to say that yes the book is full of medical terms, procedures and discussions but if you have watched any Grey\u2019s Anatomy none of this will bother you one bit. In fact, it\u2019s the medicine t 4 1/2 stars About a year ago a very good friend read this book \u2013 or tried to \u2013 she gave up very early on stating that it she didn\u2019t have the stomach for the medical procedures in the book. It left an imprint on me to avoid the book but for some reason I kept on circling back to it. The point of the above story is to say that yes the book is full of medical terms, procedures and discussions but if you have watched any Grey\u2019s Anatomy none of this will bother you one bit. In fact, it\u2019s the medicine that kept me reading when at one point I wanted to put this book down. The story starts in Ethiopia in the late 1950\u2019s (?) with the birth of twin boys to a nursing nun, Sister Mary Praise Joseph, in a small hospital on the outskirts of Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; an event which no one had expected. The doctors at this hospital worked not just with an extreme lack of medical supplies and equipment they also had to work against their patients\u2019 beliefs and customs. There were fascinating and compelling descriptive passages of Ethiopia's geography and culture, medical breakthroughs and procedures, disturbing political events and of the Ethiopian and American medical systems. Interspersed throughout are historical titbits of Ethiopia and its often odd rulers: \u201dIn 1909, Emperor Menelik had imported an electric chair, having heard the invention would efficiently get rid of his enemies. When he discovered it needed electricity, he simply used it as a throne.\u201d As with a previous book I read not too long ago \u2013 We Need New Names \u2013 the book also touched on Western aid to needy African countries and while this was done with the purest of intentions it really never solved the problems it intends to. As Marion and Shiva grow up they get their first experiences of cruelty (as all children do at some point) but this is where I felt there was a bit of a gap that needed filling. The relationship between Marion, Shiva and Genet was a complicated one and I would have appreciated a bit more in-depth knowledge of specifically Shiva to understand it better. At times this book was hard going but I was rewarded with some absolutely brilliant writing, especially when describing surgery or medicine \u2013 the author\u2019s love of this profession is indisputable. But through most of the book I didn\u2019t feel any emotional connection with the characters. That is until the last 10% - I would be lying if I said that the conclusion did not affect me. So although this was by no means an easy read it was well worth the effort. These characters will stay with me for a long time, Hema and Ghosh in particular. ...more Using a phrase from the Hippocratic oath as its title, this book sometimes reads like a medical textbook, such is the level of detail used to describe a multitude of practical applications. This might sound like a negative but it becomes apparent that a degree of confidence in the authenticity of medical practice adopted is paramount to the reader\u2019s understanding and accepting of the plot as it plays out. Anyway, I\u2019m getting ahead of myself. Set in Addis Ababa some fifty (or so) years ago, this i Using a phrase from the Hippocratic oath as its title, this book sometimes reads like a medical textbook, such is the level of detail used to describe a multitude of practical applications. This might sound like a negative but it becomes apparent that a degree of confidence in the authenticity of medical practice adopted is paramount to the reader\u2019s understanding and accepting of the plot as it plays out. Anyway, I\u2019m getting ahead of myself. Set in Addis Ababa some fifty (or so) years ago, this is the story of twins born joined at the head, their mother - a nun \u2013 and their British surgeon father. I\u2019ll not delve deeper into the storyline as I always believe its better as a reader to dive in with minimal knowledge and just let the story unfold. And this is a big story. It\u2019s the story of Ethiopia from that time and it\u2019s a tale of intimate friendships, of abandonment and of the bonds of family (and of adopted family). In truth, I found it hard to get into at first and even contemplated giving up \u2013 there was just too much sameness with very little sign of any kind of absorbing storyline. But I stuck with and did become fascinated by the characters being described and found that I wanted to follow them and learn their fate. The pace picks up about a third of the way in and from this point there was much more going on. The descriptions of the place, its people and its customs are hugely descriptive \u2013 and somewhat harrowing. If I have a criticism of the book it would be that in tying up the loose ends, and in delivering a heart-wrenching climax, the reader is asked to accept a number of, frankly unbelievable, coincidences. This aside, it\u2019s a satisfying story and I believe readers who enjoyed The Kite Runner will find some satisfaction here. ...more The thing about this book... The thing about this book, is that is manages to jump from a one-star tome which I feel like throwing at the wall, and a five-star work of brilliance. Where does the change occur? Well, self-evidently, when Verghese the writer gives way to Verghese the physician. Because when he is describing surgery and medicine and what it takes to become a doctor and what develops in us the wish to be one, he's brilliant. But when he ventures to talk about Ethiopia twins, and all t The thing about this book... The thing about this book, is that is manages to jump from a one-star tome which I feel like throwing at the wall, and a five-star work of brilliance. Where does the change occur? Well, self-evidently, when Verghese the writer gives way to Verghese the physician. Because when he is describing surgery and medicine and what it takes to become a doctor and what develops in us the wish to be one, he's brilliant. But when he ventures to talk about Ethiopia twins, and all these other wonderful things that writers love so much... Eh. I admit a large measure of personal interest and comprehension. My whole family are physicians. We seem to sprout doctors at a rate of several per generation - except it mostly skipped mine - and the topics of discussion around our table can be things like detailed description of a chap who got his nose bitten off by a horse. You can imagine how much appetite guests tend to have. My being an EMT helps with the ability to take the nicely realistic medical scenes more as literary pleasure than as something gruesome to avoid. So these parts I enjoyed. But my enjoyment bottomed out when he went into some sort of typical political diatribe, or clich\u00e9d teenage maturity story, or religious digressions... These parts, I can freely say, I didn't enjoy one bit. So I gave the book two stars as a sort of compromise, because much to my chagrin the latter scenes far outnumbered the former. Many, many things irked me about this book. I made a brief list in my memory, and I will point some of them out here, though not in any sort of order, sorted neither by chronology nor by importance. -The twins. Oh, the twins. The regular Ishmael twin, serving as narrator and a sort of second fiddle or pair of eyes to view his special Ahab twin. The genetically identical twins that grow up in the same household to nevertheless produce the eccentric genius but slightly inhuman perfect twin, and his brother the normal, shy, perfect protagonist twin. That literary cliche makes me tired. And when, pray tell, will we ever get a story with both identical twins of similar ability? Or perhaps, even, a story told by the \"special\" twin about his poor normal brother? Why must all twin or sibling or best friend arrangements in literature feature this specific pattern of a couple? I don't know, but I am sad that this was the case here. -Again, the twins. I've read, some few months back, a book to do with a sibling needing to donate their organs for a sick sibling. The sick sibling got the organ and lived, while the healthy sibling died suddenly in some sort of freak accident, leaving their sacred memory, blah blah. I didn't realize, when I picked up Cutting for Stone, that I am due a reread of My Sister's Keeper. -The ending. The lover writing a letter to the father of her babies a day before she dies, him never getting that letter until thirty years later Circumstances conspiring to keep it locked and tucked away. Mischance, Mis-this, mis-that. A favoured literary device, but no less annoying for all of that. -The over-generalization. Verghese sins in a perverse, reverse sort of racism, which is much, much better than its uglier, more common cousin, but still managed to get on my nerves. The women in Ethiopia are universally beautiful. The students in government schools are uniformly smart and eager. It provides a portrait of Ethiopia as distant and obscure as any Eurocentric novel could. What's this, again? It's okay to create stereotypes if they are favourable? Pardon me if I choose to disagree. -Meandering narrator. For some reason, and this drove me to distraction at the beginning of the book especially, the author chose, time after time, to go where I, the reader, didn't want to be, and run away from where I did want to be. I suppose he'd be surprised that, as the main focus of his book until that point was lying bleeding on the operating room table, I was not inclined to sit back and trace the ancestry and childhood of characters whose names until then only came up in brief mention. I concur, the histories in and of themselves were not at all uninteresting, but I could have done with them elsewhere. It's unfortunate that the book succumbed to so many flaws. i was anticipating reading it, and had a real affection for the medical parts. The energy of the author, which was lacking elsewhere, came through in force in these bits, and you could see his sympathy with patients, and understanding of disease and hurt and all these other things that make healthy people or sick people. Otherwise, the book, to me, felt like the creation of an artist who has all the tools, but simply lacks the eye. ...more Cutting for Stone is a story about unspoken love, heartbreak, excruciating grief, drastic behaviors that cause devastation, and finally, true redemption. I struggled in staying with this book due to the slow start and the meticulous, medical descriptions. But, I am glad I stuck with it, because in the end - the redemption is so beautiful. The complicated story lines all come together and the reader as well as the characters are all redeemed. The story is told by Marion Stone, an identical twin wi Cutting for Stone is a story about unspoken love, heartbreak, excruciating grief, drastic behaviors that cause devastation, and finally, true redemption. I struggled in staying with this book due to the slow start and the meticulous, medical descriptions. But, I am glad I stuck with it, because in the end - the redemption is so beautiful. The complicated story lines all come together and the reader as well as the characters are all redeemed. The story is told by Marion Stone, an identical twin with his brother Shiva, at first conjoined at the head, but then separated. The boys, half Indian, half British, are raised by their adopted physician parents in Ethiopia, due to their mother's death in childbirth and their father's unexplainable flee. The relationship between the brothers mirror many relationships in the story. Their connectedness and love and admiration for each other is there, yet unspoken. Due to the love of a girl that is almost like family, the twins are severed. Many other relationships in the story are connected and then severed. Even the country they are raised in, Ethiopia is severed through political unrest, yet represents home, belonging and security. Both boys, Marion and Shiva end up practicing medicine like their parents and the concept of self sacrifice for work and medical innovension becomes a strong theme woven throughout the novel. Not knowing anything at all about the author at this point, I would venture to guess that the author is either a physician himself or highly respects the field of medicine including sacrificing the majority of one's life for the sake of medical advances. I never loved this story until the ending. I wanted to yell, \"Oh, now it all makes sense, of course, of course, yes, this is perfect!\" I completely loved the ending and believe it made the long journey worthwhile. ...more I\u2019m not feeling that well today. I don\u2019t know if it\u2019s from yesterday\u2019s chicken or the fact that I cried copious amounts of tears finishing up this book. I even got the paper wet and if you know me\u2026 you know what that means. (view spoiler) [ (SHITFUCKPISS!) (hide spoiler) ] I wouldn\u2019t have picked up this book on my own. I had to be led to it, and that\u2019s okay because sometimes I can walk in circles and create a rut and start to write about nasty fan-fiction that isn\u2019t worth a tinker\u2019s curse. The stor I\u2019m not feeling that well today. I don\u2019t know if it\u2019s from yesterday\u2019s chicken or the fact that I cried copious amounts of tears finishing up this book. I even got the paper wet and if you know me\u2026 you know what that means. (view spoiler) [ (SHITFUCKPISS!) (hide spoiler) ] I wouldn\u2019t have picked up this book on my own. I had to be led to it, and that\u2019s okay because sometimes I can walk in circles and create a rut and start to write about nasty fan-fiction that isn\u2019t worth a tinker\u2019s curse. The story is set in Ethiopia during the reign of Haile Selassie. It tells of two brothers, born conjoined at the head (not for long, forceps and a big ol\u2019 knife took care of that) to a nun and a drunk, anxiety ridden surgeon. Both parents abandon their children (one via death, the other via drink and an exit visa). The boys are raised by two other doctors at hospital appropriately misnamed Missing. The story is a tender one. By which I mean that it bruises. It gives us love and takes it away, it shows us our faults and how we can so easily take simple beautiful acts for granted. It\u2019s about growing up and falling down. It\u2019s earnest and in that, I find it so beautiful. There is one passage that held me: \u201cIt was a tale well known to children all over Africa: Abu Kassem, a miserly Baghdad merchant, had held on to his battered, much repaired pair of slippers even though they were objects of derision. At last, even he couldn't stomach the sight of them. But his every attempt to get rid of his slippers ended in disaster: when he tossed them out of his window they landed on the head of a pregnant woman who miscarried, and Abu Kassem was thrown in jail; when he dropped them in the canal, the slippers choked off the main drain and caused flooding, and off Abu Kassem went to jail... 'One night when Tawfiq finished, another prisoner, a quiet dignified old man, said, 'Abu Kassem might as well build a special room for his slippers. Why try to lose them? He'll never escape.' The old man laughed, and he seemed happy when he said that. That night the old man died in his sleep. We all saw it the same way. the old man was right. The slippers in the story mean that everything you see and do and touch, every seed you sow, or don't sow, becomes part of your destiny... In order to start to get rid of your slippers, you have to admit they are yours, and if you do, then they will get rid of themselves. Ghosh sighed. 'I hope one day you see this as clearly as I did in Kerchele. The key to your happiness is to own your slippers, own who you are, own how you look, own your family, own the talents you have, and own the ones you don't. If you keep saying your slippers aren't yours, then you'll die searching, you'll die bitter, always feeling you were promised more. Not only our actions, but also our omissions, become our destiny.\u201d I am still learning to walk on my own, I think I just discovered my slippers and they still feel too big and a bit scratchy. I\u2019m afraid I won\u2019t have a destiny and that sends me headlong into a panic attack. How vain is that? I have to remember\u2026. Own It. ...more", "Title": "Cutting for Stone"},
