{"Comments": "I can\u2019t stop thinking about this series. It\u2019s so addictive I\u2019m truly scared I\u2019m not going to be able to ever forget it and I have this feeling that it\u2019s ruining the \u2018espionage\u2019 YA genre for me, because I don\u2019t think I\u2019ll ever find a book/series of that genre as good as this one. But you know what? I don\u2019t care anymore. I love this series and I\u2019m going to love it with all my heart. I can say this, even though this is only the second book, since this is a reread for me: The Gallagher Girls is in my I can\u2019t stop thinking about this series. It\u2019s so addictive I\u2019m truly scared I\u2019m not going to be able to ever forget it and I have this feeling that it\u2019s ruining the \u2018espionage\u2019 YA genre for me, because I don\u2019t think I\u2019ll ever find a book/series of that genre as good as this one. But you know what? I don\u2019t care anymore. I love this series and I\u2019m going to love it with all my heart. I can say this, even though this is only the second book, since this is a reread for me: The Gallagher Girls is in my top 10 favourite series of all time. The narration,<---M> let me tell you</---M>, is one of the things you\u2019ll like most. We\u2019re told that the characters are super intelligent and incredible spies, but honestly, we don\u2019t even have to be told that; we can see it through their actions, ways of thinking and processing information and their passion. They want to save the world and they\u2019re willing to sacrifice so much for humanity. So, reader, are you ready for more action, intricate romance, peculiarly developed mystery and fun? Come on, let me hear you say it.<---F> HELL YEAH</---F>. BD | Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Google+ | Bloglovin\u2019 ...more *Review posted on Mundie Moms on August 20, 2011* I love discovering a series that has a number of books out already. But the problem? Well, I seem to be devouring them in one sitting. I tried to slow down my reading of <+++>Cross My Heart and Hope to Spy</+++> , but I couldn\u2019t seem to stop turning pages. For starters, I wanted to know what Cammie\u2019s mother was hiding and what was that new construction in the school all about? Then in a countersurveillance exercise with the always fun-to-read Mr. Solomon, I *Review posted on Mundie Moms on August 20, 2011* I love discovering a series that has a number of books out already. But the problem? Well, I seem to be devouring them in one sitting. I tried to slow down my reading of <+++>Cross My Heart and Hope to Spy</+++> , but I couldn\u2019t seem to stop turning pages. For starters, I wanted to know what Cammie\u2019s mother was hiding and what was that new construction in the school all about? Then in a countersurveillance exercise with the always fun-to-read Mr. Solomon, I smiled when a new character was introduced as he walked into an elevator with Cammie during that very exercise (<---B>page 71-72</---B>): The elevator seemed to move slower and slower as the clock in my head ticked louder and louder, and I thought about how Mr. Solomon might make us walk back to Roseville if no one achieved our mission objectives. \u201cYou in a hurry or something?\u201d the boy asked. \u201cActually, I\u2019m supposed to meet my teacher at the ruby slipper exhibit. I\u2019ve only got twenty minutes, and if I\u2019m late, he\u2019ll kill me.\u201d (Not a lie, but maybe an exaggeration\u2014I hoped.) \u201cHow do you know?\u201d \u201cBecause he said, \u2018Meet me at the ruby slipper exhibit.\u2019\u201d \u201cNo.\u201d The boy was smiling, shaking his head. \u201cHow do you know you only have twenty minutes? You\u2019re not wearing a watch.\u201d \u201cMy friend just told me.\u201d The lie was smooth and easy, and I was a little bit proud of it, happy that I didn\u2019t have to think about how in forty-five seconds, this boy had noticed something that Josh hadn\u2019t seen in four months. \u201cYou fidget a lot,\u201d he said. Make that two things Josh hadn\u2019t even seen. \u201cI\u2019m sorry,\u201d I said, but I wasn\u2019t. \u201cI have low blood sugar.\u201d Lie number three. \u201cI need to eat something.\u201d Which wasn\u2019t really a lie, since\u2026well\u2026I was hungry. And then the stranger boy totally knocked me for a loop, because he handed me a bag of M&Ms. \u201cHere. I ate most of them already.\u201d And in that second, I forgot all about Josh. I\u2019m not going to spoil this for you, Mundie Moms; I will say this \u2013 get the series. Get all of them. Trust me when I say, you will love the way Zach (that\u2019s the boy in the quote) says the word, \u201cSpy.\u201d His snarky attitude and ability to best Cammie made for the best kind of reading. The kind where there\u2019s a smile plastered on your face. Just for the record, page 235 contained one of my favorite last lines ever. If you haven\u2019t picked this series up yet, please do. As for me, I\u2019m moving on to the third book, Don\u2019t Judge a Girl By Her Cover and yes, I\u2019m still grinning. ...more REREAD : July 26, 2015 It will never be the same. I'm bumping up the rating to 4 stars. Initial read: January 21, 2015 Rating: 3.8 stars One thing you should know about me is, I have a short attention span. I can't never get anything done without chirping a couple of nonsensical chores between my reading. I was pleasantly surprised to find myself finishing Cross My Heart and Hope to Spy in one day. Its genuinely short, but still my effort deserved to be applauded. Verdict: I'm not in love with this se REREAD : July 26, 2015 It will never be the same. I'm bumping up the rating to 4 stars. Initial read: January 21, 2015 Rating: 3.8 stars One thing you should know about me is, I have a short attention span. I can't never get anything done without chirping a couple of nonsensical chores between my reading. I was pleasantly surprised to find myself finishing Cross My Heart and Hope to Spy in one day. Its genuinely short, but still my effort deserved to be applauded. Verdict: I'm not in love with this series yet, but so far its promising. ...more I read Cross My Heart and Hope to Spy's prequel\u2014 I\u2019d Tell You I Love You But Then I\u2019d Have to Kill You \u2014last July at my mother's recommendation. I enjoyed, but didn\u2019t love, the book, and it clearly made very little impression on me. I honestly couldn\u2019t remember a majority of what took place in I\u2019d Tell You, including most of the characters. This forgetfulness is either the fault of an aged brain (entirely possible) or a not-so-thrilling storyline (also possible). Maybe it\u2019s because of my amnesia or I read Cross My Heart and Hope to Spy's prequel\u2014 I\u2019d Tell You I Love You But Then I\u2019d Have to Kill You \u2014last July at my mother's recommendation. I enjoyed, but didn\u2019t love, the book, and it clearly made very little impression on me. I honestly couldn\u2019t remember a majority of what took place in I\u2019d Tell You, including most of the characters. This forgetfulness is either the fault of an aged brain (entirely possible) or a not-so-thrilling storyline (also possible). Maybe it\u2019s because of my amnesia or since reading I\u2019ve overdosed on young adult novels, but I much prefer the sequel. The hijinks of high school sophomore <---C>Cammie Morgan</---C> and her best friends at an all-girl spy school are delightfully fun. And I also enjoyed the romance (or was it just a cover) between Cammie and another teen spy, Zach. This is not to say the book is perfect. For someone trained to be a spy from birth, for someone who supposedly developed spy gear at age seven, and for someone who speaks fourteen languages fluently (Carter repeats this fact about a thousand times in the book), Cammie sure does some stupid things. Can she really be angsting at the same time she\u2019s scoping out how many bald males in a crowd are wearing watches? The book is entirely fantastic\u2014and some descriptions of the CIA-sponsored school and gadgets are just too much to handle\u2014but one aspect of the book was just too unreal to believe. SPOILER ALERT: Fifteen male students from an all-boy boarding school move into the all-girl boarding school. Talk about a recipe for disaster. What could be worse\u2014hormonally speaking\u2014than throwing together teenagers who have been deprived of the opposite sex most of their lives? Yet, the book makes no mention of the complications inherent in the situation\u2014surely to maintain its G-rated tone\u2014but I was reminded of my uncle who invited a male foreign exchange student to live with him and his five daughters. Was he really surprised when one ended up pregnant? Overall, the book is entertaining and contains nothing offensive for a 12-year-old girl or a 58-year-old grandmother. ...more re-read on 1/18/15 You can also read this review and others on my blog . Reading this brought back all of the memories of why I love this series so much. Why despite having read this for the first time five years ago, I still push it up to the top of my favorite books list all the time. This book is my comfort food, and without fail, it always make me smile and swoon and laugh and a tad sad at times. Cammie is one of my favorite girls ever, perhaps because of her endearing awkwardness, something I re-read on 1/18/15 You can also read this review and others on my blog . Reading this brought back all of the memories of why I love this series so much. Why despite having read this for the first time five years ago, I still push it up to the top of my favorite books list all the time. This book is my comfort food, and without fail, it always make me smile and swoon and laugh and a tad sad at times. Cammie is one of my favorite girls ever, perhaps because of her endearing awkwardness, something I relate to quite well, and her honestly entertaining commentary and thoughts. She's natural, despite her impressive skills as a spy-in-training, and a normal teenage girl suffering from the lingering effects of The Subject (to prevent spoilers). She has her own loyal crew of her friends: the charmer Bex, genius Liz, and versed in real-world Macey (who is one of my favorites surprisingly. Plus introduce us to Preston soon please.) Friendships are a strong part of <---A>Ally Carter</---A>'s books and I love that about her books. From Bex with her kick-butt attitude and fierce loyalty, to Liz with her sweet and optimistic outlook that never fails to make me smile, to Macey and her much-needed boy translations and her grounded cool, they're the best friends a girl could ask for. I started to protest, to hang back and buy a few more seonds, but Macey grasped my shoulders and spun me around to see Bex. And Liz. Both of them were smiling. And we can never forget the romance aka the first meeting between Cammie and my true love Zach, the kind of boy that makes you lose your cool and looks good doing it. I'm infinitely biased in saying this, but despite his smirky-ness I ABSOLUTELY love this guy. (But then again, I may have been slightly irritated and frustrated by him at first when I read it before.) He's charming, handsome, and for Cammie, the girl who is still figuring out the mystery of boys, confusing. He's not without his moments though, and I loved seeing the different faces he seems to have. \"You're the Gallagher Girl. You figure it out.\" One of the shining points in this series for me is the touch of serious, heartfelt moments that dot the pages of the books. While they can be a bit fluffy at times, and charming and more cutesy than you'd expect from a spy book, the moments when a character drops their guard(which rarely happens when you're a spy-in-training), and you see them . Or maybe crying is like everything else we do\u2014it's best if you don't get caught. If you've never read this series, I highly recommend it, for the wonderful experience that is sure to follow and you'll be wishing you were a Gallagher Girl along with the rest of us. :) ...more Cross My Heart and Hope to Spy is the second book in Ally Carter's Gallagher Girl series. It is just as cute and well-written as the first book. It's a new semester at Cammie's spy school. But getting through the next part of her Covert Operations class isn't her only challenge; the school is also keeping a secret from its students, a secret called Blackthorne. Soon, it's up to Cammie and her genius friends to save the school. In my opinion, some parts of this story are predictable, but the storyl Cross My Heart and Hope to Spy is the second book in Ally Carter's Gallagher Girl series. It is just as cute and well-written as the first book. It's a new semester at Cammie's spy school. But getting through the next part of her Covert Operations class isn't her only challenge; the school is also keeping a secret from its students, a secret called Blackthorne. Soon, it's up to Cammie and her genius friends to save the school. In my opinion, some parts of this story are predictable, but the storyline is cute, so I read it anyway. In fact, this is one of the few series that I collect. I was disappointed that the sequel to I'd Tell You I Love You, But Then I'd Have to Kill You wasn't longer, because I really enjoyed reading about a spy-in-training's love life. The good news is, Gallagher Girls is not going to be limited to a two-book series. This is a quick and light read. I recommend this book for fans of action and romance novels. reposted from http://thebookmuncher.blogspot.com ...more asdfghjkl; these books are so fun! I can't stop grinning and while this didn't get any tears out of me, I enjoyed it a lot! especially the parts where a certain boy was involved (\u273f\u25e0\u203f\u25e0) I'm in such a reading groove with this series that I don't have that much time to update here while continuously laughing and turning the pages as soon as possible, but I'm already [almost] halfway done with book 3 and it's really good, too! The second installment of The Gallagher Girls is much better than the predecessor. There was much more spying, secrets, twists, and intrigue in this book. My disappointment from the first book has been mollified. First of, the girls: Cammie, Bex, Liz, and Macey are all great. I wish the books were a little longer, so we'd get to explore their relationships and personalities more, but I'm just happy there are so many great girls working together. The boys: Meh. Zach was okay, I guess, but I'm not The second installment of The Gallagher Girls is much better than the predecessor. There was much more spying, secrets, twists, and intrigue in this book. My disappointment from the first book has been mollified. First of, the girls: Cammie, Bex, Liz, and Macey are all great. I wish the books were a little longer, so we'd get to explore their relationships and personalities more, but I'm just happy there are so many great girls working together. The boys: Meh. Zach was okay, I guess, but I'm not too impressed. Especially since he wasn't too nice. But he wasn't as bad as he could have been either. Also, I'm a little surprised that these girls aren't taught how to interact with civilians better, especially boys. I really liked the plot in this one though, it was much more complex and full of intrigue, and unlike the last one I couldn't figure it out. It was also much better tied together. Also, why am I getting the feeling that Cammie's Dad might be alive???? I want to spoil myself so badly! Definitely looking forward to the next one. ...more Cross My Heart and Hope To Spy is the sequel to I'd Tell You I Love You, But Then I'd Have To Kill You by Ally Carter, the witty and adventurous \"Cameron Ann Morgan\" herself. This novel took alot from the first book and placed an even harder and challenging mission in this story. Cammie and her three friends, along with the 96 more girls at the academy, find theirselves in an even tougher and awkward situation than when Cammie first met Josh; and this time, this situation refers to all Gallagher Cross My Heart and Hope To Spy is the sequel to I'd Tell You I Love You, But Then I'd Have To Kill You by Ally Carter, the witty and adventurous \"Cameron Ann Morgan\" herself. This novel took alot from the first book and placed an even harder and challenging mission in this story. Cammie and her three friends, along with the 96 more girls at the academy, find theirselves in an even tougher and awkward situation than when Cammie first met Josh; and this time, this situation refers to all Gallaghers: Boys. Fifteen boys from, dare I say it, another Institution come to the Gallagher Academy so that when the time came, both girls and boys would be able to learn how to tell when someone is lying, how the other genders acts and how to trust them and how to know who and when to trust. To me, the key word I got out of this novel is: Trust, (and awkwardness, but that's another story). When Cammie has to learn to trust these boys, she finds this one boy quite interesting, (and pretty cute). She learns that there are \"others\" like her where they've lost a parent during a mission, too. Cam tries so hard for the remainder of the semester to figure out who Zach Goode is. She finds that Zach has many legends, but will she find which one is the true Zach? With all the things that have occured since the boys arrived, Cammie and her friends are the main observors and find something suspcious ever since the East Wing has been \"Off-Limits\" and BLACK CODES begin to sound when the last time one went off was about a century ago. So Cam and her friends start another mission of their own and investigates. From making a fool of herself on a CoveOps pop quiz to wearing a strapless red dress while dancing with Zach while having a bra malfunction, Cammie has learned that not everything might be a \"pop quiz\" or a \"class\". Sometimes you may come across something totally real and you are gonna have to pull all your knowledge that you've learned and just do it. I liked this one because there was a sense of more intense emotions between Cammie, Zach and then from seeing Josh again with DeeDee. Carter puts alot of action and more Spyvocabulary and more spy-related things that it makes you feel like you are the spy searching for the uncovered Alumni List. Adrenalin becomes not only Cammie Morgan's word, but it becomes your word. This spy-packed mission shows you all the hints and secrets that you would wish that there was just an inch more everytime. ...more Before I start, I have to start by saying something extremely vital to my review: JOSH WHO? Agter reading this book, I am infinitesimaly glad that Cammie isn't with Josh. First of all, I've never ever related to him. I didn't like him as a character. I've always found him to be just a distraction to Cammie. I'm glad I didn't need to hear much from him here. Anyways, this book was great, even better than the first one. I found myself passing the pages faster, because I wanted to discover all the se Before I start, I have to start by saying something extremely vital to my review: JOSH WHO? Agter reading this book, I am infinitesimaly glad that Cammie isn't with Josh. First of all, I've never ever related to him. I didn't like him as a character. I've always found him to be just a distraction to Cammie. I'm glad I didn't need to hear much from him here. Anyways, this book was great, even better than the first one. I found myself passing the pages faster, because I wanted to discover all the secrets that were being kept. Cammie, as usual, has to deal with being a spy in training as well as just being a teenage girl. Reading her inner turmoil made me realize that although she speaks fourteen different languages and can probably kill you with nothing but a stapler, she is just a teenage girl. It was fun seeing all the different new characters presented, as well as new situations where the \"spy\" aspect of the story could be developed. I love more and more the idea of a school for spies, I'd just love to be part of it. ...more These books are seriously so much fun. Sure they might be kind of predictable, but the characters are amazing and the storyline is fantastic. This is the epitome of a feel good series. I can\u2019t wait to read them all. Hmmm. Much better than the first, but some parts felt lacking. I would have to reread the action scenes to try to understand what was going on, but still felt lost at some points. No cussing like the first book (there was a 'freaking', though), but there was still a romance--just with a different guy. A kiss and an almost kiss, but not really any sexual hints. Many mentions of hotness and hotties. There is an accident with a strapless bra falling, that I found a bit humorous did to the fact I al Hmmm. Much better than the first, but some parts felt lacking. I would have to reread the action scenes to try to understand what was going on, but still felt lost at some points. No cussing like the first book (there was a 'freaking', though), but there was still a romance--just with a different guy. A kiss and an almost kiss, but not really any sexual hints. Many mentions of hotness and hotties. There is an accident with a strapless bra falling, that I found a bit humorous did to the fact I always picture that happening. It felt pretty short compared to the first one as well. Overall, I will be trying the third book out, but at this point, am not sure about the rest of the series. ...more I thought this was really good, regardless of the slim plot. I liked the characters a lot, especially the new ones, and I wish the third book was coming out tomorrow instead of in June. Sigh. But I laughed almost the whole time, especially about some of the situations and things Cammie finds herself in. I hope Zach's in the next book a lot, because I feel like Carter raised a lot of questions about him but then didn't answer any of them (well, except if he liked Cammie or not). actual rating: 4.5 stars fUCKING ZACHARY GOODE WHAT HAVE YOU DONE TO ME ERI THAT FUCKING SMOOTH MOTHERFUCKER I HATE HIM Cross My Heart and Hope To Spy was my favourite Gallagher Girls book so far. I was constantly wanting to sit down and just read the book! Which is what I did after school on Friday :P Cammie, her friends and all the girls at Gallagher Academy get the shock of their lives when boys (yes, BOYS!) come and live at the school for a semester. Enter super spy, super hot, super mysterious Zach. Cammie's new crush. Cammie is confused about her feelings for Zach. When they go into the town, Roseville, Virg Cross My Heart and Hope To Spy was my favourite Gallagher Girls book so far. I was constantly wanting to sit down and just read the book! Which is what I did after school on Friday :P Cammie, her friends and all the girls at Gallagher Academy get the shock of their lives when boys (yes, BOYS!) come and live at the school for a semester. Enter super spy, super hot, super mysterious Zach. Cammie's new crush. Cammie is confused about her feelings for Zach. When they go into the town, Roseville, Virginia, Cammie runs into her ex-boyfriend, her first kiss, her first crush, her first boyfriend, Josh and his best and longest friend, DeeDee. Then, Zach comes to the rescue and grabs Cammies hand, yes, GRABS HER HAND! After a code black, Cammie is even MORE suspicious of Zach.. But it's not him she should be suspicious of. When Cammie has to pull through for her school and herself she strives for the top. At the end, Cammie and Zach have 'a moment'!! I cannot wait until Monday so my friend can give me the next book ! I enjoyed this book more than the first because this book was easier to keep up with. It was an easy read. I finished the last half of the book in a few hours. Thanks Ally Carter.. And my friend Georgie for giving me a lend of the books!!! Love them so far <3 ...more \"Juro dizer a verdade, toda a verdade e nem sempre a verdade\" j\u00e1 \u00e9 bem melhor que o primeiro. Para j\u00e1 a autora introduziu outra escola de espi\u00f5es, desta vez uma escola masculina e a rivalidade entre o col\u00e9gio Gallagher e Blacktorne foi muito engra\u00e7ada de acompanhar. Por tudo se passar dentro das paredes de um col\u00e9gio interno, a s\u00e9rie tem toda uma vibe de Harry Potter, apenas a diferen\u00e7a que aqui n\u00e3o h\u00e1 feiti\u00e7aria mas muitos mist\u00e9rios, miss\u00f5es e explos\u00f5es! \u00c9 aqui tamb\u00e9m que entra o par amoroso da \"Juro dizer a verdade, toda a verdade e nem sempre a verdade\" j\u00e1 \u00e9 bem melhor que o primeiro. Para j\u00e1 a autora introduziu outra escola de espi\u00f5es, desta vez uma escola masculina e a rivalidade entre o col\u00e9gio Gallagher e Blacktorne foi muito engra\u00e7ada de acompanhar. Por tudo se passar dentro das paredes de um col\u00e9gio interno, a s\u00e9rie tem toda uma vibe de Harry Potter, apenas a diferen\u00e7a que aqui n\u00e3o h\u00e1 feiti\u00e7aria mas muitos mist\u00e9rios, miss\u00f5es e explos\u00f5es! \u00c9 aqui tamb\u00e9m que entra o par amoroso da Cammie, o Zach. Gostei imenso desta introdu\u00e7\u00e3o e de como foi feita. O melhor \u00e9 que o pr\u00f3prio Zach vai ser uma personagem t\u00e3o importante nos livros seguintes como a Cammie. Tamb\u00e9m gostei que o trio de amigas passa-se a quarteto com a inclus\u00e3o definitiva da Macey no grupo, juntamente com a Cammie, a Liz e a Bex. http://algodaodoceparaocerebro.blogsp... ...more I love spy stuff. And she makes me want to become a Gallagher Girl so bad. I will always love Zach with all my heart he is top spy man ever!\u2764 I love how she ends her books! Always at the end of the school year. Where the possibilities are endless. Liz and Bec are the best characters as well as best friends for Cammie. Oh and Macey too they are a mix of a kind such different personalitys yet they work together so well! I wish her books were longer! I finished this one fast. It's been awhile that I love spy stuff. And she makes me want to become a Gallagher Girl so bad. I will always love Zach with all my heart he is top spy man ever!\u2764\ufe0f I love how she ends her books! Always at the end of the school year. Where the possibilities are endless. Liz and Bec are the best characters as well as best friends for Cammie. Oh and Macey too they are a mix of a kind such different personalitys yet they work together so well! I wish her books were longer! I finished this one fast. It's been awhile that I haven't read a book that's had at least 450 pages in it and this one was half of that, but still wonderful (which is amazing). I just wished we could of learned more about Bex, Liz, and Macey's life and thoughts in this one but she does that in the future books so I'm ok:) I definitely recommend this series! So good! ...more This book wasn't as good as it's predecessor, \"I'd Tell You I Love You, but then I'd Have to Kill You\". Cam went from being a cool spy girl who happened to be interested in a boy, to a confused teenage girl, who happened to be a spy. Most of the book was her trying to deal with Zach, another spy, and then not taking the route I wanted her to, which involved a good beating on Zach's part. My goodness, that guy was annoying! Kinda a non-exsistent plot. Basically just said,\"we figured out that you This book wasn't as good as it's predecessor, \"I'd Tell You I Love You, but then I'd Have to Kill You\". Cam went from being a cool spy girl who happened to be interested in a boy, to a confused teenage girl, who happened to be a spy. Most of the book was her trying to deal with Zach, another spy, and then not taking the route I wanted her to, which involved a good beating on Zach's part. My goodness, that guy was annoying! Kinda a non-exsistent plot. Basically just said,\"we figured out that you girls, although can speak 32 foriegn languages fluenently, really don't know how to interact with boys.\" No duh. We knew that from book 1. There better be a 3rd book, with revolations about her deceased father and his buddy Mr. Solomon, or heads will roll. ...more THAT WAS SO MUCH FUN. I WANT MORE. GIVE ME MORE ZACH AND CAMMIE AND THE REST OF THE GANG. review to come when i get back from pretending i'm a spy. 4.75/5 This book was pretty good. Spies and such. I knew the ending before it came, and there was too much romance (again), but it was pretty good! (I don't remember in cursing in this one.) These books are so much fun! Loved it :) I loved the second book of the gallagher girls series. At first, it starts off slow but soon get more interesting. The second book is about how Cammie and her friends find out their school is hosting boys from another spy school. Soon the school worries that a security breach could tell the world the true status of the school while incident is being blamed on Cammie. Cammie needs to learn who is on her side, who she can trust, and how she is going to save the school's reputation. I would definit I loved the second book of the gallagher girls series. At first, it starts off slow but soon get more interesting. The second book is about how Cammie and her friends find out their school is hosting boys from another spy school. Soon the school worries that a security breach could tell the world the true status of the school while incident is being blamed on Cammie. Cammie needs to learn who is on her side, who she can trust, and how she is going to save the school's reputation. I would definitely recommend this and book and series to read. ...more I was a little surprised by how it was better than I expected, since I didn't really like Cross My Hear and Hope to Spy 's prequel, which I forgot the title of. The main thing that I like much better is that Cammie is a little more grown up. She still is a little naive, but instead of finding her annoying, I find her endearing now. It would make sense too, since she did something really bad before, and she's also a little older. There still are all the cute things, and I really liked the spying e I was a little surprised by how it was better than I expected, since I didn't really like Cross My Hear and Hope to Spy 's prequel, which I forgot the title of. The main thing that I like much better is that Cammie is a little more grown up. She still is a little naive, but instead of finding her annoying, I find her endearing now. It would make sense too, since she did something really bad before, and she's also a little older. There still are all the cute things, and I really liked the spying elements. Cammie's friends are super awesome, and there is actual female friendship, which I love! In the first third or so, Cammie and her friends try to figure out what \"Blackthorne\" means. Of course, they soon find out that it's a boy spy school. Which surprises them, since they though that Gallagher's School for Girls was the only spy school thingymabober. I love their sneaking around and breaking the rules. It would usually annoy in a book how much the main character does reckless and dangerous things like spying on people for no reason, but here, it's totally cool since they're spies. Although Cammie's voice and narration is younger than sixteen, I still appreciate the youthfulness in it. It's so cute, and although I doubt there are actually schools like this, it sure would be cool to go to one. For the rest of the book, boys come over to Gallagher Academy. One of those guys is Zach, who is a super sweet guy. He's not scorchingly hot or anything, but he's so sweet and caring and considerate! I wish all real-life guys were like that. I love what Cammie thinks of him for a lot of the book, that he's a spy for the enemy side. Even though it was super obvious that wasn't so, I still liked this naive part of her. Cammie hasn't spend much time with guys, so it's not like she would have a good understanding. She's just basing her knowledge off her spy skills. Speaking of the romance, I'm not exactly sure if there's a love triangle or not. I mean, there was Josh in the last book, and then there's Zach in this book. The romance was fairly light. I won't spoil it, but I really wasn't sure and it kind of ruined my reading experience. I kind of hope that there will be a love triangle since Josh and Zach are both so sweet, but at the same time, I like how this series relies more on the fluffiness and spy aspects, and I'm afraid that if there is a love triangle, it will override and block out some of those things. Overall, it was just such a fun and cute book! There were some flaws, but it was really enjoyable to read! And just out of curiosity, what kind of uniforms to the Gallagher Girls wear? Is it something like what's on the covers? Because those would be some cute uniforms! ...more A fun sequel to the first book, and just as light and chick-lit, too. I liked the element of the boys coming to stay at the school. I was a little disappointed that early on I had guessed correctly about was going on because it took away some of the excitement for me. However, Carter did a decent job in the what's-going-on aspect as I still found myself second-guessing my original guess. Honestly, I never liked Zach. He's not Josh. I liked Josh. I prefer Josh. My favorite scenes were the ones wi A fun sequel to the first book, and just as light and chick-lit, too. I liked the element of the boys coming to stay at the school. I was a little disappointed that early on I had guessed correctly about was going on because it took away some of the excitement for me. However, Carter did a decent job in the what's-going-on aspect as I still found myself second-guessing my original guess. Honestly, I never liked Zach. He's not Josh. I liked Josh. I prefer Josh. My favorite scenes were the ones with Josh, especially as I could totally understand the feelings on all sides which were occurring in the situations. I was not as into this book as I was the first, but I was still as (easily) entertained. I always enjoy a fast, light read when life is zooming all around me. Now I have to learn to embrace that reading a variety of YA books, no matter how embarrassing it is to tell others the title, is OK. :-) ...more Covert Operations Report By Anna Sk (hereafter referred to as \"The Operative\" ) Phase 2. With the addition of Asset Zachary Goode, the Operative regained interest on the series and was highly anticipating the continuation of the mission with the combined strengths of Assets Morgan, Baxter, Sutton, McHenry and Goode. The same rather fluffy storyline is continued in this phase as well, though compared to the first mission, it is more enjoyable (mainly due to Asset Goode as stated above). The Operative Covert Operations Report By Anna Sk (hereafter referred to as \"The Operative\" ) Phase 2. With the addition of Asset Zachary Goode, the Operative regained interest on the series and was highly anticipating the continuation of the mission with the combined strengths of Assets Morgan, Baxter, Sutton, McHenry and Goode. The same rather fluffy storyline is continued in this phase as well, though compared to the first mission, it is more enjoyable (mainly due to Asset Goode as stated above). The Operative would also like to point out that Asset Joe Solomon has reached a new level of respect in the Operative's eyes, even though the mission hasn't disclosed yet his purpose. Additional input: the final scene before the end of Phase 2, left the Operative with \"all the feels\" . Proceed to Phase 3 . ...more I thought my heart was going to break, but then it starts healing because of the humor in this book. \"I thought you liked your interludes secret and mysterious. Your boyfriends private.\" \"We weren't having an interlude. And you are not my boyfriend.\" \"Yeah. I noticed.\" \"What's that supposed to mean?\" \"You're the Gallagher Girl. You figure it out.\" 3.5 stars Another fun Gallagher book! review to come probably more like 4,5 A 3 but a really strong 3. I had a lot of fun with it and hope to continue with the series and fall head over heels in love! THIS WAS SO CUTE. I AM READY FOR BOOK THREE ---- Ok. I got to thank Eri for getting super excited to finish this series. I'm actually very grateful to her because this series rocks like mac n' cheese. I'm so very deeply in love with all the characters and the plot lines in each book. Cammie is so cool. I actually like her more than the first one. I don't know, the way she thrives at things, and her being a super amazing spy, makes me love her even more. Her relationship with her other three \"halfs THIS WAS SO CUTE. I AM READY FOR BOOK THREE ---- Ok. I got to thank Eri for getting super excited to finish this series. I'm actually very grateful to her because this series rocks like mac n' cheese. I'm so very deeply in love with all the characters and the plot lines in each book. Cammie is so cool. I actually like her more than the first one. I don't know, the way she thrives at things, and her being a super amazing spy, makes me love her even more. Her relationship with her other three \"halfs\" makes me so happy to see that much girl power. It's always good to read girl power, to be honest. But Ally Carter always knows how to do it. She is a master of writing about it. Liz, Bex and Macey; it had been a while since I read the first book. Make that A LOT OF TIME. But it was so easy to get into the story, love them all again. Their voices are so funny and just their own. I mean you know which one is who and what are their perks and they just make me have a good time. Here enter Zach Goode. Holy sh, Ally Carter. Can you just not make me want to kiss his face. I blame Eri and Lisa and Nazeefa for this. They just made me so damn excited for Zach. I just wanted him to appear, yes. He does really a good entrance into the series and I felt breathless and wanting a cold shower. No joking. Zach Goode is mysterious and hot and probably dangerous. But Cammie and him are so my OTP. /I probably had goosebumps every time they had a scene together. The plot line of the second book was so appealing. Ally Carter always manages to think another great idea. I don't know how she does it (the Heist Society books are so original and each book is so different) I'm so excited to read more about these ladies and their hot sexy boy spies. ...more", "Title": "Cross My Heart and Hope to Spy"},
