{"Comments": "Eighteen-year-old Alice has only been married for six months when her husband marches off to war for the Union Army. He left her on the family farm in rural Iowa with his stern mother. Alice was an immature city girl with a flirty, gregarious manner so the isolation and hard work of farm life was a big adjustment. The book is told in a series of letters to her sister, although many of them have much more dialogue than you would ever find in a normal letter. The correspondence is lively, gossipy, Eighteen-year-old Alice has only been married for six months when her husband marches off to war for the Union Army. He left her on the family farm in rural Iowa with his stern mother. Alice was an immature city girl with a flirty, gregarious manner so the isolation and hard work of farm life was a big adjustment. The book is told in a series of letters to her sister, although many of them have much more dialogue than you would ever find in a normal letter. The correspondence is lively, gossipy, and often humorous. The letters show the lives of the women left behind as they work the farm and contribute to the war effort. As the story unfolds,<---M> Alice matures into a strong</---M>, caring young woman. A quilting theme runs through the book since the women would meet together to make quilts to send to the soldiers and offer emotional support to each other. A murder adds some suspense and spice since Alice is a suspect. We also learn the fates of some of the soldiers who were prisoners of war at Andersonville. The main characters worked their way into my heart so I was sorry to see the book end. ...more This book is the most god-awful abomination on the face of the earth, next to the Twilight series. I had to read it for a history project and I was appalled. The main character Alice is a Mary-Sue. She's 100% perfect and possesses no flaws whatsoever. All the men in the town want her for themselves while her husband is at war and Alice does nothing to stop their advances. The book has no plot, even though the summary suggests otherwise. The whole \"murder\" theme doesn't even become apparant until This book is the most god-awful abomination on the face of the earth, next to the Twilight series. I had to read it for a history project and I was appalled. The main character Alice is a Mary-Sue. She's 100% perfect and possesses no flaws whatsoever. All the men in the town want her for themselves while her husband is at war and Alice does nothing to stop their advances. The book has no plot, even though the summary suggests otherwise. The whole \"murder\" theme doesn't even become apparant until four chapters before the book ends.<---F> Even then, nothing happens</---F>. Alice is accused of MURDER. Murder! And absolutely NOTHING happens! All her friends just quit talking to her. What a tragedy! In this era, it wouldn't have mattered if there was evidence or not. If Alice was accused, she'd be taken into custody, a trial would be held, and she'd most likely be hung. But no, Alice is perfect. Even though she clearly kills a man, she's not responsible for it. Two other women confess to clear Alice's name. It's ridiculous. In addition to having no plot, there are many lewd references to sex and masturbation. Considering that the Civil War took place in the mid-Victorian era when letter-writing was an art, they did not talk about that. Ever. It just wasn't done in a society that encouraged sexual repression. My next issue with the book is the characters of Annie and Joybell. The author took the time to make them the epitome of a sterotypical southeners: uneducated, poor, and inbred. Stereotypes aren't nice Ms. Dallas. Don't even bother reading this book. Seriously. Just burn it now and save yourself the trouble. ...more Alice Bullock is a young old newlywed whose husband Charlie has joined the Union Army. Alice is living with her mother-in-law on the family farm in Iowa and this book tells her story (<---B>and the story of all the characters</---B>) through letters from Alice to her sister Lizzie. Life was hard on a farm in 1862, really hard for Alice because she was not exactly the choice Mother Bullock would have made for her son, and even harder for her son as a soldier during the Civil War. This book was recommended to Alice Bullock is a young old newlywed whose husband Charlie has joined the Union Army. Alice is living with her mother-in-law on the family farm in Iowa and this book tells her story (and the story of all the characters) through letters from Alice to her sister Lizzie. Life was hard on a farm in 1862, really hard for Alice because she was not exactly the choice Mother Bullock would have made for her son, and even harder for her son as a soldier during the Civil War. This book was recommended to me by one of my Goodreads friends and I was pleasantly surprised as to how much I liked it. I loved the way the story was told through the series of letters. Each letter, even the short ones, packed a wallop in it! And I learned a lot about quilts!! ...more This is a great story! The character's are so real, they stay with you long after you close the book. The lost art of letter writing was how people communicated in the past. This book is a peephole into the life a young girl and we watch her grow up as war erases her youth and callowness. Realistic character, foibles and all both lovable and unforgettable. The irony in the ending is alone, worth the read. I forgot I had this book. Now I remember why I do. I enjoy the growth and self-realization of the heroine. I like the story-telling device (her letters to her sister) and that with only a few lines we get almost a full picture of her sister's story as well. It's earthy, but I like a bit of frankness. It does remind me that for as much as we lament \"society\" today, I would much rather be living right when and where I am. I liked Persian Pickle Club more, I liked Buster's Midnight Cafe less. I usually don't give a summary because you can read that everywhere, but I have to give a bit of one to explain what I see. The main character, Alice, is left with her cranky mother-in-law on a farm near the middle of nowhere when her husband joins up to fight for the Union. She has been married about a year and when she married him, he worked in a store. She specifically did not marry a farmer, having been raised on a farm a I liked Persian Pickle Club more, I liked Buster's Midnight Cafe less. I usually don't give a summary because you can read that everywhere, but I have to give a bit of one to explain what I see. The main character, Alice, is left with her cranky mother-in-law on a farm near the middle of nowhere when her husband joins up to fight for the Union. She has been married about a year and when she married him, he worked in a store. She specifically did not marry a farmer, having been raised on a farm and wanting nothing to do with it. However, they end up back home helping mom-in-law with the farm and then her husband joins up. That's where the book starts. The book is written as letters to her sister. Alice starts out as a spoiled and shallow girl. She's very lightweight and not all that likable. Throughout the book, as she is forced to take on more responsibility and begins to get an idea of the plight of others, the danger her husband faces, etc. she eventually matures to a better person. Not really a much better person, but better. I enjoyed the history, the relationships she develops with others, and she is somewhat amusing so the story rolls. She's overly flirtatious which kinds of rubs me wrong. There are two instances that to me are like a sticker in your sock during a long walk. It doesn't ruin the walk, but the couple of times it pokes you make things uncomfortable and take a little something out of the story. At one point she encourages her sister to try various methods to abort her baby because she has two little ones and a third right now is just too much. Her callous and flippant disregard of the fact that she's encouraging her sister to kill her unborn baby for convenience sake really bothered me. It isn't lengthy, but it is to me, very ugly. There's also a brief reference to masturbation. Not graphic, like I said it is brief, but it also is unnecessary and vulgar to have even included. All in all it was interesting and engaging, even with the uncomfortable pokes and a main character that isn't that stellar of a person. ...more Civil War era novel that is comprised of letters written during the war years to the protagonist's sister, husband. It's an interesting account of having to work a farm (Iowa)without men and with a crabby mother-in-law. It certainly kept my interest and held some dicey details. But I thought that the copy in the letters was at some points not possible or highly unlikely for a woman of that period. If the author had chosen a few dramatic decisions it would have been better. She tried to do too mu Civil War era novel that is comprised of letters written during the war years to the protagonist's sister, husband. It's an interesting account of having to work a farm (Iowa)without men and with a crabby mother-in-law. It certainly kept my interest and held some dicey details. But I thought that the copy in the letters was at some points not possible or highly unlikely for a woman of that period. If the author had chosen a few dramatic decisions it would have been better. She tried to do too much with having nearly every scenario possible for someone close to our letter writer. It tried to do too much with the jealousy, domestic violence, drugging, cancer etc. Of course some of these would definitely have raised their nasty heads- but not all. It made our heroine so intrinsic Polyanna that I could never swallow her \"eyes\". Feel good historical fiction that incorporates quite a bit of revisionist insight to the main character. I like my Civil War ladies to be completely of their periods. And good sewers too. This one was half of that quantity. ...more I really liked this book. It's a nice, quiet little read with likable characters for whom you hope against hope things will turn out well. I liked that it was composed entirely of letters written from Alice to her sister. Alice's voice was enjoyable and she interjected subtle humor into much of her writing. She reminded me somewhat of Scarlet O'Hara in the way that she matured over the course of the book. Having read The Diary of Mattie Spenser , I appreciated the references to characters from th I really liked this book. It's a nice, quiet little read with likable characters for whom you hope against hope things will turn out well. I liked that it was composed entirely of letters written from Alice to her sister. Alice's voice was enjoyable and she interjected subtle humor into much of her writing. She reminded me somewhat of Scarlet O'Hara in the way that she matured over the course of the book. Having read The Diary of Mattie Spenser , I appreciated the references to characters from that story and look forward to reading more from <---A>Sandra Dallas</---A>, as I suspect some references were to characters from other of her books. The information on quilting at the start of each chapter was a nice little bonus to this book and helped to provide context. I definitely recommend this book. ...more <+++>Alice's Tulips</+++> is another fine Sandra Dallas book. The plot is simplistic: women on their own, trying to farm and survive during the war between the states. Both there is nothing simplistic about the hardships that Alice and her mother-in-law faced. The two plucky women made their way and found room for others. Yet again, Sandra Dallas has intertwined information and a love of quilting as an integral part of the story. I was again struck by the honest, open view Sandra gives of small town life, <+++>Alice's Tulips</+++> is another fine Sandra Dallas book. The plot is simplistic: women on their own, trying to farm and survive during the war between the states. Both there is nothing simplistic about the hardships that Alice and her mother-in-law faced. The two plucky women made their way and found room for others. Yet again, Sandra Dallas has intertwined information and a love of quilting as an integral part of the story. I was again struck by the honest, open view Sandra gives of small town life, with all its prejudices with people from away and the changing factions within a town when gossip is one of the prime commodities. I suspect the universality of small town life will be recognized by many. ...more The history told in this book about the Civil War era was fascintating. Sandra Dallas is awesome in touching every detail about the era she writes about. Alice was a wonderful character full of flaws, dreams, duty, and love of her husband. I thought the story was a bit slow but the last 20-30 pages brought the entire story line together and completed all the loose ends. I would definitely recommend it. Fun read. Set during the Civil War and written as a series of letters to protagonists sister. Has a bit of suspense to make it fun. I liked the progression of the main character who I didn't love during the beginning of the book. I have my doubts about whether some of the slightly scandalous topics in her letters where commonly discussed during that time and would not let my daughter read this until she was in high school or older. This is one of my favourite books. Set during the American civil war, it's about the relationship between a young war bride and her mother-in-law, and a coming of age story. Told through letters sent to her sister, mother, and new husband, we see the evolution of a young girl into a young woman. It is wonderfully sculpted and beautifully told, with a very distinct voice. I loved this book, and often buy it to give to girlfriends for birthdays or other occasions. I enjoyed this book very much. It was a quick read, as it was written in the form of letters...one sister to another. At first, I didn't like that it was only Alice writing, and never the reverse as well. However, as the book progressed, that didn't bother me anymore. It was interesting to see how Alice matured and changed over the course of the civil war and I liked how the title of the book was worked into the story. The characters of the book were interesting as well. Such a charming little book. My Civil War theme continues. Alice narrates her story through letters to her sister and lots of great quilts. Lots of great female characters, and a little murder mystery thrown in for good measure. Alice's letters to her sister while her husband Charlie is away to fight for the Union in the Civil war. I love the interactions between Alice and Charlie's mother and couldn't put down the book until Charlie came home. I like stories taking place during the Civil War. This one is about young, newly married Alice and her letters about her life with her husband off fighting. I enjoyed it. The book got better as it progressed. It is a bit hard to get used to the one- sided storyline. I did enjoy other books by Sandra Dallas more than this one. Interesting book on Civil War time. I loved the quilting. I usually don't really go for the books written in letter form but this one is done very well. Loved the historical aspect of this book. I didn't think I would like the Letters to Lizzie format, but I devoured this book. Loved the history of quilts, Loved this book, I have never read a book about the civil war based on a northern perspective. This was well written. I have read this book at least 3 times. Truly enjoyed this book. Very enjoyable historical fiction set in the time of the Civil War. The young newly married narrator writes letters to her sister/confidant during this well researched novel. Going into the book I was not expecting that much to happen just because the setting of the book was located in a small farm town. And at first my thoughts were right because the beginning of the book was extremely slow with lots of added details that are not really needed. I think they should have brought up the rape and murder earlier in the book to give people more of an incentive to keep reading. Overall I would not recommend reading this book if you're looking for a exciting read. I loved this book and decided that Sandra Dallas is my favorite author. Quality writing all the way. I enjoy the interconnectedness I am always finding . I love history and have an appreciation of women's struggles through time. This book is about a newlywed named Alice, she lives with her husband's mother on Bramble Farm during the Civil war era. During the story she is accused of murder and is shunned from society in the town of Slatyfork. The entire book is letters to her sister. When I first read what this book was about I thought this might be good. I thought there would be more action with the murder but I was wrong. I even tried to like Alice but that was nearly impossible. She was a terrible person. She told her This book is about a newlywed named Alice, she lives with her husband's mother on Bramble Farm during the Civil war era. During the story she is accused of murder and is shunned from society in the town of Slatyfork. The entire book is letters to her sister. When I first read what this book was about I thought this might be good. I thought there would be more action with the murder but I was wrong. I even tried to like Alice but that was nearly impossible. She was a terrible person. She told her husband that he should only come back if he can still dance, who says that to a person when they are going to fight in a war! She also is obsessed with being better than Jeannie Kate. She would constantly remind everyone that her quilting was superior to Jeannie Kate's. She held a grudge against Jeannie Kate even after she (view spoiler) [died (hide spoiler) ] but she took her child anyway. The only reason Alice didn't like Jeannie Kate was because she liked Alice's husband, Charlie. Well Alice, I don't understand why other people can't like Charlie. I understand he is your husband but well since Charlie choose you over Jeannie Kate you have nothing to worry about! Then other part that bothered me was that she didn't kill anyone until more than halfway through the book! (view spoiler) [ Then at the end it turned out that she didn't even kill the guy! Annie did and that Mother Bullock died lying for Alice. (hide spoiler) ] The only character I actually liked was Mother Bullock. I don't know how she could stand living with Alice. (view spoiler) [I can't believe she lied for her on her deathbed and it turned out that she had been lying for the wrong person! I nearly cried when Mother Bullock died and if I didn't have to finish this book I would have stopped right there. (hide spoiler) ] I would not recommend this book to anyone unless they really like history books. ...more When her husband enlists as a Union soldier, teenage newlywed Alice Bullock must live on his family's Bramble Farm on the outskirts of Slatyfork, Iowa, with only her stern mother-in-law for company. The story is told through Alice\u2019s letters to her sister over two and a half years, and are filled with accounts of quilting bees, the hardness of farm life, and small town customs. In her long, gossipy letters to Lizzie we experience Alice's life on the run-down farm. As the story unfolds, secrets an When her husband enlists as a Union soldier, teenage newlywed Alice Bullock must live on his family's Bramble Farm on the outskirts of Slatyfork, Iowa, with only her stern mother-in-law for company. The story is told through Alice\u2019s letters to her sister over two and a half years, and are filled with accounts of quilting bees, the hardness of farm life, and small town customs. In her long, gossipy letters to Lizzie we experience Alice's life on the run-down farm. As the story unfolds, secrets and mysteries flourish, and Alice shares every joy and sorrow with her sister by letter. The farm is falling apart, there is little food to eat, squatters are living on her property, her horse is dying and she is constantly being scolded. She misses her husband desperately and fears he may never return from the war. The letters portray a growing up period for Alice as she changes from a young bride to a woman who has responsibility over the lives of others. Alice likes to have a good time, and admits to be very vain about her sewing and quilting skills. Her only happiness is when she takes up her needle to sew and quilt. This pastime is one of her remedies for those lonely nighttime hours stuck inside the small house. As Alice faces life\u2019s challenges and becomes the main suspect in a local murder she re-examines her relationship with Mother Bullock. Their growing mutual respect forms the core of a novel about the realities of a woman\u2019s life in Civil War era America. The last third of the novel is a subtle balance between sentiment and tragedy and I couldn't put it down. This was my first Sandra Dallas novel and I enjoyed it so much. If you have an interest in both historical fiction and quilting you will get even more enjoyment from this book. ...more Alice is a mere 18 years old when she marries Charlie, who soon leaves to fight in for the Union in the Civil War. Immature and stubborn Alice is left to live with her brand new mother in law, Mother Bullock, where they must learn to work together and Alice must learn to grow up. In a series of letters to her sister Lizzie, the details of Alice\u2019s new life are disclosed: her hardships, flirtations, quilting, and relationship with Charlie\u2019s mother are all analyzed as they evolve through the space Alice is a mere 18 years old when she marries Charlie, who soon leaves to fight in for the Union in the Civil War. Immature and stubborn Alice is left to live with her brand new mother in law, Mother Bullock, where they must learn to work together and Alice must learn to grow up. In a series of letters to her sister Lizzie, the details of Alice\u2019s new life are disclosed: her hardships, flirtations, quilting, and relationship with Charlie\u2019s mother are all analyzed as they evolve through the space of the war. It also explores the hardships of the Civil War through the eyes of her beloved Charlie in his occasional correspondence. As hardships ensue, Alice finds herself in the midst of a murder mystery and must defend herself and learn to grow through her trials. I loved the letter format of this novel, the way it allowed me to see through Alice\u2019s eyes and get to know her character so intimately made her transformation throughout the book all the more dramatic. I also thought the way that Sandra Dallas wove actual quilting patterns and techniques into the story added an element of uniqueness and made the novel seem even more realistic. The contrast between life at war and life at home was fascinating as well, although I may be biased towards this book because I am a bit of a Civil War buff. I didn\u2019t love some of the vulgarity of the novel, but aside from that I really did enjoy the dynamic characters and Alice\u2019s passionately personal story. Content to be wary of includes sexuality and vulgar language. ...more I have read almost all of Sandra Dallas' novels and often find myself reaching for one on a rainy day or when I am sick and want something easy to read, cozy, and riveting all at the same time. Alice's Tulips, a novel told through a series of letters, is the story of Alice, a young bride left on a farm with her stern mother-in-law when her husband joins the Union Army during the Civil War. Alice is spunky, funny, and quite likable. Through her letters, Dallas captures many of the hardships women I have read almost all of Sandra Dallas' novels and often find myself reaching for one on a rainy day or when I am sick and want something easy to read, cozy, and riveting all at the same time. Alice's Tulips, a novel told through a series of letters, is the story of Alice, a young bride left on a farm with her stern mother-in-law when her husband joins the Union Army during the Civil War. Alice is spunky, funny, and quite likable. Through her letters, Dallas captures many of the hardships women faced in the era. Each chapter began with a brief quilting blurb, which tied in with the letters that followed. I am not a quilter, but enjoyed reading the historical tidbits. For the most part, the letters work well as a storytelling device, though some passages don't come across as entirely authentic - for example, when Alice describes her appearance to her sister or recounts an entire conversation verbatim, though as a reader I was glad for the information! I expected a murder mystery from the book's description. There is a murder, but it plays a lesser role in the story than Alice's growth as a woman. I will enthusiastically recommend Alice's Tulips and all of Sandra Dallas' work to quilters and fans of female-centered historical fiction such as that written by Jennifer Chiaverini and Tracy Chevalier. ...more \u201cAlice\u2019s Tulips\u201d by Sandra Dallas is the story of a young girl named Alice Bullock. Her husband has just been sent off to war, and now Alice lives on a farm with her stern mother-in-law. The story is told through letters from Alice to her sister Lizzie, and for the most part I enjoyed this format. It was fun and full of gossip which I enjoyed reading. It made the historical fiction a little easier to bear. However, the book took a while to pick up. It wasn\u2019t until the end of the novel that Alice \u201cAlice\u2019s Tulips\u201d by Sandra Dallas is the story of a young girl named Alice Bullock. Her husband has just been sent off to war, and now Alice lives on a farm with her stern mother-in-law. The story is told through letters from Alice to her sister Lizzie, and for the most part I enjoyed this format. It was fun and full of gossip which I enjoyed reading. It made the historical fiction a little easier to bear. However, the book took a while to pick up. It wasn\u2019t until the end of the novel that Alice is accused of murder, and the drama really picked up. Before that point, the story consisted of the gossip of a typical woman during the civil-war era. Therefore the book really had no plot, but that all changed when Alice was accused of murder. Though it was a turn for the worst in the book, considering most of it was innocent fun up until then, the murder trial really brought out the true colors of all the characters. For example, Mother Bullock vouched for her daughter-in-law after all the time of bickering and not getting along and Alice\u2019s true friends, Nealie and Annie, stick up for her as well. Overall, I didn\u2019t mind reading this book, as it was fun to watch the characters and relationships grow. That is why I am rating this book a 4. ...more<---C>Sandra Dallas</---C>", "Title": "Alice's Tulips"},
