{"Comments": "I read this book out of curiosity, with no preconceived notions. Merely because I was curious what kids would do in a world with no adults.<---F> I admit I was blown away</---F>. Mr. Grant told me a story that I couldn't put down. From the beginning, my mind was full of questions about how this happened,<---M> how the kids would survive</---M>, what could prevent the same thing from happening again....So many questions. Sam is the kind of boy you want to have around when the world goes crazy. He's definitely the reluctant I read this book out of curiosity, with no preconceived notions. Merely because I was curious what kids would do in a world with no adults. I admit I was blown away. Mr. Grant told me a story that I couldn't put down. From the beginning, my mind was full of questions about how this happened, how the kids would survive, what could prevent the same thing from happening again....So many questions. Sam is the kind of boy you want to have around when the world goes crazy. He's definitely the reluctant hero type, but usually they come through for you like no other. Because they do what needs to be done, simply because it needs to happen. Not for glory, not for recognition. Sam doesn't want to be 'the guy', but he knows that no one else is going to do it. And when Caine and his posse come down from Coates Academy, taking over and making things mostly worse, someone has to step up to the plate to stop him. This book is intense, violent, and sometimes sad. Some of these kids die. A lot of them get hurt pretty bad. I'm not a mother yet, but I love kids, and I hate to see them suffering. It was a bit painful to watch. Even harder was seeing the cruelty and potential for evil that some of these children showed. Drake, who is basically Caine's bully boy, is a psychopath. He loves hurting people, and he feels no remorse about doing it. In my mind, I was weighing the options, even thinking that they needed to kill him, because he was like a rabid animal, bent on destruction. I felt horrible doing that, but he's a loose cannon, and he's only going to get worse. I don't think saving this boy is an option. One of the take home messages of this book is the consequences of a social structure that is pretty familiar to most of us. The dynamic that we see in a group of kids where there are bullies who find the 'weakest' people and torment then, doing everything they can to make life miserable for those kids. And this causes a lot of fallout, because people forget ethics and what's morally right so that they can have peace from the bullies. In essence, they become part of the problem, contributing to a micro-society in which children get hurt because everyone is afraid to speak up and stand up against the bullies and the ones who are 'running things' for their own twisted, self-absorbed reasons. It made me shudder to see what these children did to each other, because they thought it was the easiest option to keep control of things. I'll be honest. I was bullied and picked on big time. It made me hate seeing the so-called 'weak' or 'different' people get targeted and treated that way. I'm no fighter, but I made a promise that I'd stand up for someone who couldn't do that for his or herself. I was glad that the kids like Sam and Edilio (<---B>what a sweetheart</---B>) were more than willing to do that. I had some issues with the decisions that were made by the kids. They had no real sanitation rules. They didn't use their resources effectively. They had very poor nutrition, unnecessarily, because there was a supermarket full of healthy things like fruits and vegetables, proteins, grains. They ate mostly junk like candy, ice cream, soda pop, you name it. I guess I was looking at things through 'grown-up' eyes, which did cause me some discomfort. I was glad that they did organize care for the babies and kids too young to watch out for themselves, because Mary and her brother took on that job. I was also glad that Dahra worked as the medical provider. Albert took over the McDonalds and provided food for the community. Even so, I see some problems ahead, unless the kids set up a civic structural system in which every person is accountable (over-thinking this, I know!). I loved the relationship between Astrid and Sam. They had an innocent love but also a strong friendship and support system in which they watched out for each other and did what they could to help everyone through this situation. Astrid was the brain, very smart, but also very kind. She had to take care of her younger brother, who was autistic, and extremely gifted with powers. I'll get to the powers part later. Give me a minute. Not an easy task for a young girl, but she did it. I was rooting for things to work out for these two! Another character who turned out to be a favorite was Lana. Lana is in a very bad position when the 'event' happens--the one in which all the people over fourteen disappear. She ends up getting horribly injured and is about to die, when her power to heal manifests. Oh, I was on the edge of my seat, seeing her stranded, wounded very badly, with only her dog to protect her from the wild animals in the desert. I was so glad that she was able to get out of that situation. Of course, she ends up in a worse situation that ties in with the kids in town, and in a big way, as this book culminates. It might seem like a deus ex-machina to have a character who can heal even the most grievous wounds, but I was glad that she did have the power. These kids have a lot stacked up against them already. They need all the advantages they can get. Now, lets talk about the power. Some of the kids, Sam included, have supernatural abilities that start manifesting. I thought this part was very cool. How Caine approaches this, with his evil little posse' made my hair stand on end. I can't even conceive of children being as cruel as that lot were. The powers end up playing a pivotal role in this story, and I am sure that this will continue to be a very strong element in the forthcoming books. I liked the \"X-Men\" sort of element it brought to the story, and how kids that were often bullied and felt useless, got to play important roles in the fight against Caine and his Posse' of Evil. I wanted to give the author a nod of thanks for making the FAYZ (Fallout Alley Youth Zone) a multicultural environment, with children of all races. Everyone is important, and it was nice to see that there was a rainbow represented here. That speaks highly to me! If you're an adult and you don't think you could enjoy young adult books, this is one I'd recommend. If you're like me, you will be riveted to this exciting story. It has a lot to offer as far as entertainment, but also stimulates the brain, as you are confronted with this bad situation that this young kids have to face. I cannot stop reading these books. I'm way too invested now! ...more Well, I'm trying to write reviews more often. But I don't have anything to review today, so this will be one of my days where I revisit one of my old reviews and try to like ... write it in proper English. Since, a few years ago, I wasn't very good at doing that. So, obviously, I didn't care for this book. I remember seeing it around in book stores a lot, and thinking it looked kinda cool and mysterious. And it sounded like an interesting premise\u2013\u2013the adults just disappearing and whatnot. You kno Well, I'm trying to write reviews more often. But I don't have anything to review today, so this will be one of my days where I revisit one of my old reviews and try to like ... write it in proper English. Since, a few years ago, I wasn't very good at doing that. So, obviously, I didn't care for this book. I remember seeing it around in book stores a lot, and thinking it looked kinda cool and mysterious. And it sounded like an interesting premise\u2013\u2013the adults just disappearing and whatnot. You know, that whole plot line where there are no adults and only kids, and then Lord-of-the-Flies-esque violence ensues. (Still pretty cool, even if it's a clich\u00e9.) Also I heard a lot of good things about it, so I decided to give it a try. Pretty much right away, I had a feeling this book was just not going to do it for me. The first thing I had issues with was the writing style. There were a lot of fragmented sentences with not much purpose, which is one of my biggest pet peeves. It was also just very \"telling\" rather than showing, which is another thing I always find problematic. Another issue was all the characters there were to keep track of. Having a few main characters is all right, so long as they're all thoroughly developed and interesting. In this book, I felt like there were too many people and that they weren't distinct enough. At first there were several different story lines, and it was confusing as to how they were related to each other besides the fact that they took place in the same world. Furthermore, I felt like the author took too much plot into his hands. He added too many plot twists and characters into the mix, until it was a bit too chaotic. There were the adults disappearing, people getting superpowers, talking animals, people growing tentacles out of their dismembered limbs... I remember describing this book to my friend and she was like, \"Um ... this book sounds unhealthy.\" In the end, the only thing that kept me reading was a mild curiosity to find out if the plot would go anywhere or if anything would be explained. Instead, it dragged out for too long and nothing was resolved at the end. At the time I read it, I didn't know there were going to be six whole books. And, well, this book didn't leave me feeling patient enough to sit through five more volumes just to get some answers. I didn't feel like it was worth it, so I gave up after this one. A BRIEF UPDATE: : Due to all the similar comments I'm receiving on this review, allow me to make one thing clear. I AM NOT GOING TO READ THE REST OF THE BOOKS. If that makes you upset, sorry. But I'm not. I have a shit-ton of books I want to read/finish and the remainder of this series is just not on my list of priorities. Yes, I know not everything is going to be solved in the first book. But at least some loose ends should be tied up so that each individual book is still satisfying as a standalone. At the end of this book, I just felt like the author had thrown in a bunch of strange plot twists and left the reader with too many questions. Sure, suspense is a good thing to a certain extent, but not when it's overbearing in comparison to the telling of the actual story. Look, I love series\u2013\u2013but I love series where each book is its own story while also being a part of a bigger picture. Whereas, I felt like this was just a snippet of an unnecessarily long story without having its own unique story within it. Maybe you like that kind of story, but I don't. All righty? And it's more than that. Even if it did feel like a complete, satisfying story, I just didn't like anything else about the book. I didn't like the style, I didn't like the characters. Those are things that won't change in the next books. I'm sure more questions are answered in the later books. I know how series work, I'm not a moron. I simply don't feel compelled to read the rest of the series because, well, frankly ... You're entitled to your opinion. If you love this book, and this series, good for you. I personally disliked almost everything about this book and that is a solid reason not to continue with the series, especially when I have so much else to read. So, please. Stop telling me to read the rest of the books. I'm not going to. I agree to disagree with anyone who likes this book, and if you can't do the same for me ... well, you're just being immature. ...more I suppose I should provide some kind of explanation as to why I didn't finish reading this book. It's not because the concept was stupid - actually the concept was quite interesting and would make for a fantastic philosophical discussion. It's not because it was poorly written - actually it was written quite well with a great plot and interesting world building and action packed scenes. It's not because the characters were horrible or annoying - Actually, Sam is really likable if not frustrating, A I suppose I should provide some kind of explanation as to why I didn't finish reading this book. It's not because the concept was stupid - actually the concept was quite interesting and would make for a fantastic philosophical discussion. It's not because it was poorly written - actually it was written quite well with a great plot and interesting world building and action packed scenes. It's not because the characters were horrible or annoying - Actually, Sam is really likable if not frustrating, Astrid is such a relief as a female protagonist and the secondary characters are realistic and well fleshed out. In the end I would actually recommend this book to people, especially fans of sci-fi and particularly middle-school children. It's like a modern, sci-fi version of Lord of the Flies only cooler and there's no Piggy. No, the reason I couldn't keep reading it was because I wasn't enjoying it. The reason I wasn't enjoying it was rather stupid but since everyone over the age of 15 is gone, I was kind of frustrated because there was only one girl and boy actually taking care of a small number of babies. The rest were just being abandoned in their cars/houses or whatever and I couldn't get absorbed in the storytelling while I was mentally yelling at the kids to go rescue the babies! Stupid, I know. Pathetic? Yeah, I'm WELL aware of it, but that's just the way it is. Also, because I'm kind of an authoritarian/leader type person, I was thinking of everything they SHOULD be doing and how they SHOULD be organizing and kind of frustrated that Sam was being so wimpy about taking charge. But, he's fourteen, I know he deserves slack but yeah... SO go read it, please! My inability to finish this book had nothing to do with the writing and was all about me being irrational and crazy! ...more This was a very good book about adventure, mutants, superheroes and just the plain old story of surviving high school... only this time there are no adults to keep a check on things. This novel tells the story of how one day in a small Californian town everyone 15 and over mysteriously disappears. But that's not all. The town becomes surrounded by a strange spherical barrier, no one gets in or out. And stranger still, the children and teenagers left behind are discovering that some of them have w This was a very good book about adventure, mutants, superheroes and just the plain old story of surviving high school... only this time there are no adults to keep a check on things. This novel tells the story of how one day in a small Californian town everyone 15 and over mysteriously disappears. But that's not all. The town becomes surrounded by a strange spherical barrier, no one gets in or out. And stranger still, the children and teenagers left behind are discovering that some of them have weird mutant powers. And that snakes can fly. And coyotes can talk. In a world gone mad, power and leadership are up for the picking. In a world run by children, power belongs to the bullies, the sadists, or the mutants. So, I'm going to explain the reason it got four instead of five stars. Well, I've spent the last few weeks reading books that are instantly gripping, they throw you right into the middle of the story and build up their characters around it... this book, however, takes time at the beginning to introduce and explore each character in a way that I feel would have been much more effective if it had been integrated throughout the novel. But it's not just that. I have some issues with the female characters. As a woman and a feminist, I love strong females in books. But the strongest female in this book was probably Diana, the psychopath, and even she was most notably only the girlfriend of the opposition. The girls in this book are all \"beautiful\" or \"cute\" and are important only as ornaments on the arm of the leaders - all of which are male, there never seemed to be any discussion in this book as to whether the chosen leader would be female. Also, I grew increasingly annoyed by the way Sam was built up as Astrid's saviour and hero. I had higher hopes for Astrid at first, she was described as a genius and I thought she could be a great contribution to solving their predicament, but she was actually fairly useless, often needing to be rescued herself. My favourite female of the book is Lana. She survived alone in the desert without ever needing a guy's help (unless you count her lovable dog, Patrick) and she braved a truck crash, coyote attacks and more. I hope there's more strength and admirable qualities coming from her character in the second installment. Which, by the way, I am extremely looking forward to because the story is VERY good even if my rant seemed to suggest otherwise. ...more I put this book aside about two weeks ago, saying I would definitely go back and finish it as I only had about 100 pages left. But it doesn\u2019t look like it now. I\u2019m simply not in the mood to pick it up again. And as I\u2019m not planning on spending money on the next instalments of the series, I will probably never read them anyway, so why continue here? I really don\u2019t know why <+++>Gone</+++> wasn\u2019t able to intrigue me. It is a clever and absolutely thought-provoking story that definitely got me thinking. How wo I put this book aside about two weeks ago, saying I would definitely go back and finish it as I only had about 100 pages left. But it doesn\u2019t look like it now. I\u2019m simply not in the mood to pick it up again. And as I\u2019m not planning on spending money on the next instalments of the series, I will probably never read them anyway, so why continue here? I really don\u2019t know why <+++>Gone</+++> wasn\u2019t able to intrigue me. It is a clever and absolutely thought-provoking story that definitely got me thinking. How would I react if people suddenly started to disappear? What would I do to help keep things working? Would I freak out? Would I become as cold-blooded as some of those barely 14-year-old kids? It\u2019s hard to imagine. I would definitely start feeling claustrophobic. But it also made me wonder: Can those kids be for real? I mean, I have of course never been in a similar situation, but it\u2019s hard to believe it can transform you into a heartless killer in a matter of days. Even if you\u2019ve always been a bully. Killing and torturing people is still on a completely different level. That being said, I think one thing that I didn\u2019t like was the constant action in this book. I know this is how the book is supposed to be like and I totally knew what I was getting myself into and even looked forward to it. But somehow, in this novel, it just didn\u2019t work for me. Don\u2019t ask me why. You just never get one peaceful moment. One awful thing happens after the next. We get Caine the dictator and his little crazy friend (I\u2019ve forgotten his name already. Duh.) who want to rule the FAYZ and don\u2019t care at all who lives or dies as long as they stay in power. But hey, that\u2019s not enough. No, throw in some weird talking animals and that creature in the cave. And I know things will probably only get worse in future instalments. I\u2019m certainly not a faint-at-heart when it comes to books (don\u2019t make me watch a horror movie, though), but this was simply \u2026 exhausting. And it had the opposite effect on me than it should have had. It made me not care. The language and dialogue were kept simple, but I thought that fitted the story in some way. I liked Sam\u2019s voice and his personality. Same goes for Astrid, although their love story felt a bit strange to me and developed so fast. But, then again, under their circumstances everything\u2019s a bit different ... All in all, this book just wasn\u2019t for me. But it might be for you, so don\u2019t refrain from giving it a try. I can totally see people loving this series. ...more Highly enjoyable. Hooks you at the very start. I drive through the traffic everyday: about an hour in the morning and definitely more than an hour at nighttime. So, while reading the first few pages of the book, I said, wow this should happen here in Manila. Imagine all adults to disappear altogether without a trace at one time and all adolescents will follow once they turn fifteen. Obviously, this is okay as long as I and my loved ones are exempted hehe. This is a YA book and so the characters a Highly enjoyable. Hooks you at the very start. I drive through the traffic everyday: about an hour in the morning and definitely more than an hour at nighttime. So, while reading the first few pages of the book, I said, wow this should happen here in Manila. Imagine all adults to disappear altogether without a trace at one time and all adolescents will follow once they turn fifteen. Obviously, this is okay as long as I and my loved ones are exempted hehe. This is a YA book and so the characters are all young adults. Sam has a friend, Quinn and a love interest, Astrid . Together, they find the possible reason for the disappearance of the people and they meet all interesting characters and go through a lot of twists and turns (just like the everyday Manila traffic) to get into the bottom of this phenomenon including its possible solution. The storytelling is straightforward and Grant's imagination is so fertile I thought I would write a letter to our President Noynoy and recommend him to solve the congestion of vehicles during rush and even not too rush hours. Why not? If a YA author like Grant can think of all the interesting characters and situations in the book, maybe his creativity can be put to better use not only for readers but for the whole country or even the whole world. World peace, anyone? My only complaint about this book is attributable to myself. Why oh why did a 48-year old man like me find this more enjoyable if not better read than Kazuo Ishiguro's surreal The Unconsoled ? I really don't know. It is more readable, more gripping, made my heart beat faster and it does not make me sleepy every time I am holding it. Oh maybe, I don't read too many YA books so having it once in a while feels liberating. Or maybe I am having a midlife crisis so I find this kind of plot not revolting but definitely worth my reading time? I will definitely borrow the next 4 books and read them in between the literary classics. Maybe that would be my strategy to finish the 1001 books before I die. Thank you, Ace Jose. I hope you stop growing so you keep on buying and reading YA books and then pass them on to me. I hope that, despite our huge age difference, we will be friends forever. ...more I hereby predict that, sometime in the next year or so, the next big Young Adult obsession will be with the book Gone, by <---A>Michael</---A> Grant , and with the subsequent books that I hope he writes quickly because I might die if I don't know the what and the why and the how and the...well, EVERYTHING. (This is apparently the first in a series of six books.) I also predict that it will take off like the Harry Potter and the Twilight Series, with almost as many adults reading the series as kids. For one thi I hereby predict that, sometime in the next year or so, the next big Young Adult obsession will be with the book Gone, by Michael Grant , and with the subsequent books that I hope he writes quickly because I might die if I don't know the what and the why and the how and the...well, EVERYTHING. (This is apparently the first in a series of six books.) I also predict that it will take off like the Harry Potter and the Twilight Series, with almost as many adults reading the series as kids. For one thing, this book is creative genius. I can take a guess at some of Grant's inspirations, but I truly hope that my doing so doesn't take away from Grant's originality, because to me this book felt 100% new, and Grant is brilliant to have woven his ideas together in such a phenomenal way. The story is this: everyone over the age of 15 disappears one day, all in the same instant. After the initial panic, a power struggle ensues (a la Lord of the Flies). But that's not all: it turns out that some of the kids have developed certain...let's say unique...skills (a la Heroes), which help and harm in their strange, adultless environment. The story surprises despite having some familiarity, and I simply couldn't put it down. I even once tucked it under my shirt and snuck it into the ladies' room at work with me so I could continue reading. Oh, and there's even some teen love in there, too, and who doesn't love young love? (No one, I tell you.) I admit, the cover art and the summary on the book jacket are a little hokey. I can overlook the summary - after all, I thought the summaries for the Twilight series sounded ridiculous as well, so I think my distaste has more to do with my being in my thirties than anything else. That very well may be the same for the cover art, too, but I do think it will hinder the book's allure for adult readers. If you guys over at Harper Collins are reading this, you might want to consider ditching the random people on the book jacket and instead design it as it looks without the jacket on it (matte black with shiny blue title in large letters on the front). But that's just my two cents. When it comes down to it, though, the book jacket art is pretty irrelevant. With or without it, this book kicks some serious ass. And you don't have to be a young adult to think so. ...more Gone by Michael Grant has to be one of the most frustrating novels I've read recently. Taking place in a dystopia where all the adults have disappeared, \u00e0 la Lord of the Flies mixed in with some kids mysteriously getting superpowers sounds really good on paper. Too bad it didn't work when given 560 pieces of paper to work with. The basic plot of Gone is about anybody above the age of 15 disappearing into thin air. Naturally, this leaves quite a few problems for the surviving children: there are b Gone by Michael Grant has to be one of the most frustrating novels I've read recently. Taking place in a dystopia where all the adults have disappeared, \u00e0 la Lord of the Flies mixed in with some kids mysteriously getting superpowers sounds really good on paper. Too bad it didn't work when given 560 pieces of paper to work with. The basic plot of Gone is about anybody above the age of 15 disappearing into thin air. Naturally, this leaves quite a few problems for the surviving children: there are babies who need feeding, young children who need constant reassuring, and bullies who try to pull the new society down to its knees. Our three main characters (though this novel does occasionally switch between several other inconsequential characters) are Sam, Astrid, and Quinn. Sam is a surfer dude who everybody looks up to because he once stopped a school bus from crashing when the driver had a heart attack, Astrid is your token smart chick, and Quinn is so boring I often forgot why he was there. Admittedly, Gone is fairly good at addressing what would happen if all the adults (and older teenagers) were to disappear off the face of the earth. Such as burgers being left on the grill in McDonald's for over 10 hours, house fires after adults left stoves on too long, and babies being in need of care. And also, bizarrely, the mass adult disappearance leads to the 3G, emergency, and web networks being completely down. Which is weird, because unless the adults had shut them down just before the disappearance, how is it possible that every single network in the town is shut off? Ah well, whatever. This novel was actually quite boring, given the concept. There might be a lot going on (what with the kids joining factions and making life hell for others), but it was always quite boring to read. Characters did this, then that. Then there would be a few pages about an alternate character doing something as mundane as operating the town McDonald's. Yeah, kid. That's a good idea. Operate industrial machinery because some kids still want to eat goddamn cheeseburgers. (Yes, I know they're just children who can't cook and might gravitate towards a fast food restaurant rather than try to turn on the stove at home. Admittedly, these were clever touches, but the plot takes such a long time to get its act together that it really dragged after a while. Mr. Grant, I know you're trying to cover every base when it comes to children being too immature to handle a world without adults to hold their hands every step of the way, but it got too much after a while.) Speaking of that plot, it took quite a while to get anywhere. So all the adults in this small Californian town mysteriously disappear. The novel then meanders for a bit before slipping in superpowers, then meanders a bit more before adding in talking coyotes controlled by some mysterious, evil force of darkness, then meanders a bit more before showing us just how horrible the Coates Academy kids are - we're talking capturing kids with superpowers and encasing their hands in cement. What follows on is more meandering until one character grows a tentacle after losing his arm (what the hell?) and then the ticking clock of Sam and Caine's 15th birthdays, wherein all that happened was the villain showed up, went 'bwahaha well if you won't join me now, you'll join me eventually \u2026' and then let them go. What the actual hell? I know this book is the first of a series, but goddamn, end your books properly. I have no interest in reading the next two books because all the first book did was lumber along and occasionally add in weird shit for over 500 pages, before concluding in the last sixty pages with an unsatisfactory payoff. No, I don't care about that kid who was getting eaten by giant worms. I barely got to know him. Grah. This book has an interesting concept, and the writing isn't too bad. But the storytelling and lack of decent characters really got to me after a while. Everything is black and white in this world: you're either a bully or a good kid. And that's it. The characters aren't defined very well outside of one-note traits. Astrid is Smart and Good. Sam is Good and Conflicted. Caine is Smart and a Bully. Diane is Conflicted and kind of a Bully. Quinn is Boring and Good. And finally, Edilio is Good and a Hispanic Immigrant (as Quinn reminds us a million times over in unfunny witticisms that would have gotten him a broken nose if I were Edilio). And\u2026 that's about it. It's not a bad read to pass the time with, but if you're looking for memorable characters and a decent story, I'd go for other dystopian YA books. 2/5. (This review is also available on my blog: http://book-wyrm.blogspot.co.uk/2012/... ) ...more This is my first exposure to Michael Grant's writing, and he totally blew me away. Maybe it was because I am partial to the sci-fi/fantasy genre, but truthfully I don\u2019t think it had anything to do with it. This story was just.... WOW! Imagine sitting in class one day, maybe you are paying attention to your teacher, maybe you are daydreaming about surfing, then all of a sudden your teacher disappears. What would you do? It just so happens that this very scenario happens to <---C>Sam Temple</---C> in his histor This is my first exposure to Michael Grant's writing, and he totally blew me away. Maybe it was because I am partial to the sci-fi/fantasy genre, but truthfully I don\u2019t think it had anything to do with it. This story was just.... WOW! Imagine sitting in class one day, maybe you are paying attention to your teacher, maybe you are daydreaming about surfing, then all of a sudden your teacher disappears. What would you do? It just so happens that this very scenario happens to Sam Temple in his history class. It turns out his teacher isn\u2019t the only on missing, it turns out that anyone over the age of thirteen is missing. Not just missing but disappeared. No cell phones, no television, no Internet. Poof gone! Sam has been in a horrific experience like this before, well maybe not exactly like this. Sam had saved a bunch of kids in a school bus after the driver had a heart attack, good ole\u2019 School Bus Sam. Sam was a natural leader, but he didn\u2019t feel like it. Everyone was looking up to him for answers, but all Sam felt was guilt. Guilt because there was a possibility that this was his fault. Sam has this little problem, he can shoot beams of light out of his hands and burn people\u2019s hands off. Literally. But I guess things like that happen when you live in Fallout Alley. Thankfully Sam isn\u2019t alone. He has is best friend and surfer brah, Quinn. The genius Astrid, who Sam has secret feelings for, and the faithful and dependable, Edilio. Of course in any untamed civilization there is always a power struggle, those who have it and those who want to take it away. It turns out that Sam isn\u2019t the only one that has \"powers.\" When the kids from the private school Coates Academy show up, Sam and Astrid realize there is something more going on. It also doesn\u2019t help that the kids from Coats and the kids from Perdido don\u2019t exactly get along. Caine from Coates Academy comes in, dazzles everyone with his charm and takes control of the FAYZ, a.k.a. Fallout Alley Youth Zone. Caine has his own secrets. He has powers of his own. And if he thinks your powers might be a threat to him, he takes care of you one way or another. But when Caine\u2019s sinister sidekick Drake allows a girl to be beaten to death with a baseball bat, for doing a \"magic trick\" things go from bad to worse. Caine knows that everyone looks up to Sam as a leader, so starts the battle of good vs. evil. Besides Caine has his own hidden agenda toward Sam. Oh! And did I mention that when you turn fourteen, you poof too. So not only does Sam have to save his new world, he will be fourteen in a week or so. No worries though. Yeah right! There are so many twists and turns in the plot that you won\u2019t be able to put this book down until it\u2019s well, gone. But don\u2019t fret, this is only the beginning of a six-part series. The characters are well developed. I love when you feel like you really connect with characters, and this was one of those experiences. You not only get to experience Sam\u2019s part of the story but the views of many other characters. There is action, suspense, romance, and fantasy all rolled into one. Gone is a spectacular beginning to what I can only hope will be a thrilling series! Amazing!!! ...more I tried and tried to love this book, but I just couldn't connect with it. The concept was a brilliant one. It was the reason I decided to buy the book in the first place, but once I started reading it, I couldn't establish a connection with any of the characters. I just felt as if I was an outsider and not able to grasp any of the emotions of the characters. I didn't feel as if I was part of the story. At times, I thought there was too much telling as opposed to showing. There were also many pass I tried and tried to love this book, but I just couldn't connect with it. The concept was a brilliant one. It was the reason I decided to buy the book in the first place, but once I started reading it, I couldn't establish a connection with any of the characters. I just felt as if I was an outsider and not able to grasp any of the emotions of the characters. I didn't feel as if I was part of the story. At times, I thought there was too much telling as opposed to showing. There were also many passive sentences that didn't have the effect an active sentence would have had. I really wanted to grasp the story, but it just didn't happen. It was just an okay read. ...more This book is one of the most thrilling and addictive books I've ever read! The incredibly paced plot and the abundant twists and turns made it nearly impossible to put down. Don't be intimidated by the length, it reads very quickly, and you'll be wishing for more by the end. I do have a couple complaints though, that I'm willing to ignore in order to give this book 5 stars. The characters are all very young, so don't expect the most challenging dialogue, and don't expect closure at all from the This book is one of the most thrilling and addictive books I've ever read! The incredibly paced plot and the abundant twists and turns made it nearly impossible to put down. Don't be intimidated by the length, it reads very quickly, and you'll be wishing for more by the end. I do have a couple complaints though, that I'm willing to ignore in order to give this book 5 stars. The characters are all very young, so don't expect the most challenging dialogue, and don't expect closure at all from the ending. The novel was also unexpectedly thought provoking. You'll ask yourself many questions, such as \"what side would I be on?\" \"what role would I play?\", and the best question, \"what superpower would I get?\" I vastly recommend this novel to all, and I hope you'll read it. ...more The kids of Perdido Beach suddenly-very suddenly-find themselves alone. Everyone over age 14 has disappeared without a trace. It's up to the kids to make their own society to keep themselves alive. Most of the kids want Sam to lead them, but he's not sure he's comfortable in the role. His new friends, Astrid and Edilio, and his best friend, Quinn, have to help convince him to take his place as the leader of their newfound society, as well as struggle to stay alive amidst chaos, bullies, and the The kids of Perdido Beach suddenly-very suddenly-find themselves alone. Everyone over age 14 has disappeared without a trace. It's up to the kids to make their own society to keep themselves alive. Most of the kids want Sam to lead them, but he's not sure he's comfortable in the role. His new friends, Astrid and Edilio, and his best friend, Quinn, have to help convince him to take his place as the leader of their newfound society, as well as struggle to stay alive amidst chaos, bullies, and the strange students from rival school, Coates Academy. Did I mention that Sam can shoot lightning bolts from his hands? And he's not the only one with supernatural powers. I think this book just wasn't my style more than anything else, but I do enjoy most YA fiction so I wanted to share my honest feelings about the book. I didn't realize that the teens in this book were so young, only 14. I also didn't know there would be so much violence. The main reason that I didn't really enjoy this book was because of the violence. There is a lot of violence in this book, the author does not gloss over any gory details. Also, there are some downright evil characters with no redeeming qualities whatsoever. The line between good and evil is very clear cut here. The teens are either very good or very bad. In fact, there were only one or two charcters who struggled with whether or not they were on the side of good or evil. Those characters, Quinn and Orc, really stand out as the most interesting to me. This book definitely took some cues from \"Lord of the Flies\", so it didn't seem like a totally new concept. Also, I really felt like I as reading James Patterson's \"Maximum Ride\" all over again, although I did enjoy this book more. The writing in the book was good and I liked the fact that there were so many characters to read about. Each one was fully fleshed out. I liked the way that the characters were split up into different subplots before coming together at the end. I was most interested in Lana, left stranded in the woods with her dog, Patrick, after the 'poof.' Also, I liked Albert and the way he took over running the McDonalds to keep everyone fed. I found the main characters, Sam, Astrid, and Caine, pretty average and I didn't like reading about Mary changing diapers at the day care at all. Mostly I was turned off by the graphic details of violence and too much detail about dirty diapers, etc. However, the writing was great and fast-paced, and I can see how someone with different tastes would enjoy the story. Reviewed for http://inthehammockblog.blogspot.com/ ...more I read a lot of books, but you knew that didn't you? While I enjoy most of the books I read, few stand out to me as amazing or memorable (this is why I give out so few five star reviews). Gone is simply the best YA book I have read since Laurie Halse Anderson's Wintergirls, and stands right beside The Hunger Games and the Knife of Never Letting Go as some of the best dystopian sci-fi around... In Perdido Beach, life is normal (mostly) until a sudden disruption results in the disappearance of ever I read a lot of books, but you knew that didn't you? While I enjoy most of the books I read, few stand out to me as amazing or memorable (this is why I give out so few five star reviews). Gone is simply the best YA book I have read since Laurie Halse Anderson's Wintergirls, and stands right beside The Hunger Games and the Knife of Never Letting Go as some of the best dystopian sci-fi around... In Perdido Beach, life is normal (mostly) until a sudden disruption results in the disappearance of every adult and child over fifteen. Left to fend for themselves without computers, cell phones, television, or rescue, the remaining children must band together to survive and solve the mystery of what happened to their parents and the rest of the town. Trapped inside a force field barrier that surrounds the town, there is little hope of rescue or escape. Whatever caused the disruption has also caused strange mutations in animals-- coyotes talk, snakes fly, and cats teleport. These mutations affect some of the children, giving them supernatural powers and abilities. When tensions build among different factions in the town, the children must band together to survive or risk destruction themselves. One of the reviews for Gone describes the book as Lord of the Flies written by Stephen King. I was reminded of King's classic, The Stand, the entire time I read Gone. The post-Apocalyptic premise, the battle between good and evil forces, and most of all, the compelling well-developed characters pulled me through this lengthy book. I could not put it down, devouring it in one rainy Saturday afternoon. Yes, there is a sequel, Hunger, but unlike many YA books these days, I felt that the major conflicts in this book were resolved before the end. I can think of at least ten students in my class who would love this book. I cannot wait to put it in their hands! ...more Dit boek h\u00e8, moet je even heel snel gaan lezen want het is zo'n gaaf boek en een geweldig begin van een superspannende en epische serie! Nog niet overtuigd? Lees dan mijn recensie: http://nerdygeekyfanboy.com/recensie/... Lots of my friends have this remarkable ability to stay up really late into the night reading. I have never been one of those people. Whenever I hear someone say something like \"I stayed up until three in the morning reading this book!\" I always get really jealous, because it seems no matter how much I like a book I just physically CANNOT miss sleep over it. The night seems like such an excellent time to read, too, everything is so quiet and peaceful and sleep seems like such a waste of time whe Lots of my friends have this remarkable ability to stay up really late into the night reading. I have never been one of those people. Whenever I hear someone say something like \"I stayed up until three in the morning reading this book!\" I always get really jealous, because it seems no matter how much I like a book I just physically CANNOT miss sleep over it. The night seems like such an excellent time to read, too, everything is so quiet and peaceful and sleep seems like such a waste of time when I COULD be reading. But no matter how I try to convince myself this, I cannot seem to fight sleep come eleven o' clock. Ready for a really bad pun? \"Gone\" are the days when I cannot stay up for a book. (That's probably not true, I'm pretty sure this book is a special case...I just couldn't resist saying it). For me, simply put, Gone is a perfect story. An interesting premise explored by incredible characters. I am all about characters and as cool as the plot might be, (ahem, Maze Runner) if the characters don't come alive, I'm not going to care about the story. There were a lot of people who were PISSED after the Lost finale. I'm not so blinded by my Lost love that I can't understand why. Yeah, not all the questions were answered- wait, let me rephrase- a TON of the questions were not answered. On the message boards after it aired, I saw the same complaint over and over- \"Since when was this a show about CHARACTERS? I wanted answers!\" I would say the reason that I loved it so much was because for me, it was ALWAYS a show about characters. Yeah, sure, they were on a mysterious island. Dharma, Others, polar bears, time travel- bring it all on, I just want to know what's going to happen to these people I have come to care about so much over the years. So I got my answers- and I am genuinely sorry to those who didn't get theirs. Whoa, whoa, I digress. My point is, I love characters and the characters in Gone are so incredibly fleshed out that I already know this is going to be an epic journey for me. Because no matter what happens, it's happening to them. It's one of those rare stories where it's not a clearly drawn love/hate line between the good guys and the bad guys, either. Through the entire book, instead of thinking \"Man, I hope Sam kills Caine\" I kept thinking \"Man, I hope Sam and Caine team up.\" Yes, I have this vision of them (SPOILER!!!!!!!!!) becoming bestie brothers and fighting the darkness together. I guess we'll see. Oh, and for the friends of mine on here who know me in person- this may mean something to you. MEGAN (yes, my sister) is reading (and loving) this book. For the first time in the history of my reading career, (and the times I forced her to sit down and listen to me read HP to her don't count) my gushing over a book caused her to want to read it. She started yesterday and by the time I left her to go to bed she was nearly 200 pages in. Yes, it's THAT good. I cannot wait to move on with the series. I know a lot of people are becoming increasingly irritated with so many series (Bethany, did we ever figure out what the plural for series is?!) but I still love a good series. Well, I love books that are written with the original intention of being a series, not standalone books that do well and are then awarded a crappy sequel or ten. I'm also one of those weird people who likes to wait with bated breath for the next book in a series. I totally get the people who want to wait until all the books come out before starting, but there's something about the wait that I really just thrive on. I know it's not for everyone (judging my friend's reviews) but I am still going to recommend it until everyone around me has read it...or punched me in the face. ...more The premise of this book sounded so interesting - everyone over the age of 15 simply disappears one day and the remaining kids are left trying to figure out what happened... plus they discover that some of them are somehow developing supernatural powers. I was excited to read this and expected writing along the lines of Scott Westerfeld, based on the plot and such. But alas, the novel did not deliver for me and I put it down after 100 pages or so, when I found myself skimming pages and caring le The premise of this book sounded so interesting - everyone over the age of 15 simply disappears one day and the remaining kids are left trying to figure out what happened... plus they discover that some of them are somehow developing supernatural powers. I was excited to read this and expected writing along the lines of Scott Westerfeld, based on the plot and such. But alas, the novel did not deliver for me and I put it down after 100 pages or so, when I found myself skimming pages and caring less and less. The problem, for me, was that the writing felt rather slow. I didn't get sucked into the story, nor did I feel the sense of urgency that the characters must have been feeling. Also, the narration skipping around from person to person, introducing new characters in new situations, and I didn't really care about most of them because I didn't know who they were or how they connected to the plot, and the \"powers\" that some of the characters developed didn't sound that exciting the way they were described. So, a disappointment. ...more Gone is like a mix of Lord of the Flies, Under the Dome, Animal Farm, Lost, Kid Nation, Heroes, X-Men and that Simpsons Movie... This book I think is popular and also has quite number of fans but I haven't read it immediately because the book was very thick and I just find that I'm too lazy to follow a series like this. However I changed my mind and finally decided to read the first book. At first my opinion about this book is, it is a very easy read. The sentences and the dialogues are kept simp Gone is like a mix of Lord of the Flies, Under the Dome, Animal Farm, Lost, Kid Nation, Heroes, X-Men and that Simpsons Movie... This book I think is popular and also has quite number of fans but I haven't read it immediately because the book was very thick and I just find that I'm too lazy to follow a series like this. However I changed my mind and finally decided to read the first book. At first my opinion about this book is, it is a very easy read. The sentences and the dialogues are kept simple. There are many times that I find it too simple but I think it made sense because the target of this book are young adults and I think even a nine year old can follow the words and sentences used in this one. Also what I like about this book is that, it is really scary. There are moments that I just find myself having goosebumps and it was just really creepy. Also I like that there are many characters in this book and my favorite character ironically is one of the bad guys which is Dianna. She has the power to know someone's power level by merely touching his or her hand. I jst find her really interesting. What I don't like about this one is that it is you know something that is not that \"original\" because you can see that the idea of it was already seen from other books, TV series, movie etc. I also don't like the fact that there are many times wherein I found the kids unrealistically acting like adults. These kids are 14 years old and below however they can use the fire hydrant, fire hose, the oxygen tank and the oxygen mask, some of them can drive and can measure a city's radius, hack a computer, use a machine gun etc. Those kind of things wherein you'll just say, \"Blimey, smart kids.\" I also find the answer to the mystery of the \"poof\" and how you can not \"poof\" cheesy. And there's this moment wherein I just can't understand the logic why do these kids wanted to kill other kids. I find the logic of Battle Royale and Hunger Games somewhat realistic because they only kill other children because their lives are at stake and it is the Society that dictates to kill. But here it's a matter of free will more similar to Lord of the Flies. It comes from their own savage mind and I just find myself having a hard time to buy that idea. ...more This book was a pleasant surprise. The plot is quite wild actually: one day, all people over the age of 15 disappear, and young kids are left to fend for themselves in a world, where \"normal\" rules no longer exist. In this new world, the FAYZ - Fallout Alley Youth Zone, the unimaginable happens - animals rapidly mutate, some kids acquire special X-men-like abilities, coyotes led by the mysterious Darkness try to overtake humans. Undoubtedly, this sounds like a lot of craziness, and yet it all so This book was a pleasant surprise. The plot is quite wild actually: one day, all people over the age of 15 disappear, and young kids are left to fend for themselves in a world, where \"normal\" rules no longer exist. In this new world, the FAYZ - Fallout Alley Youth Zone, the unimaginable happens - animals rapidly mutate, some kids acquire special X-men-like abilities, coyotes led by the mysterious Darkness try to overtake humans. Undoubtedly, this sounds like a lot of craziness, and yet it all somehow works together and creates one fascinating and intriguing story. The characters are well developed and relatable, their back stories are familiar and compelling. The struggles of good vs evil are very well written. My only complaint is that sometimes this book has just too much action, at times I felt as tired as the book characters of constant running and fighting. However overall it's a great novel and I am looking forward to reading more books in this series to find out what happens next to the characters and to see at least some of the mysteries of the FAYZ solved. Update July 19, 2010. Almost a year later and 2 more installments, still haven't worked up any interest to read more of this series (?). ...more In the blink of an eye. Everyone dissapears. GONE. Those three lines pretty much sum up the plot of the book, and was cleverly placed on the front jacket cover. Michael Grant phenomonaly captured so many different plot elements and combined them into a dystopic apocolypse that resembled Lord of the Flies, yet also added an element that gave characters unique abilities (like one of my favorite TV shows, Heroes). Every character in this book has dymanic, none of them fall flat at all. There are opp In the blink of an eye. Everyone dissapears. GONE. Those three lines pretty much sum up the plot of the book, and was cleverly placed on the front jacket cover. Michael Grant phenomonaly captured so many different plot elements and combined them into a dystopic apocolypse that resembled Lord of the Flies, yet also added an element that gave characters unique abilities (like one of my favorite TV shows, Heroes). Every character in this book has dymanic, none of them fall flat at all. There are opposing sides between the main protagonist, Sam, and the lead antagonist, Caine. Each recruits their own group of other teens and followers under the age of 15 (because when you turn 15, you dissapear). Every single person must find a way to survive without adults and technology to aid them. It's somewhat like a parallel universe, just better. This book has everything in it, and I still remember most of it from reading it a few months ago. It has the whole Sci-fi/fantasy element that is garnered from the plot. It also has a lot of action/adventure due to the teens struggle to survive while fighting each other. And finally, it has young-teen romance, which I think everyone appreciates it. This book may be thick, but it was a really quick read for me. I hope that it becomes just as popular as Twilight and Harry Potter, because it definetly deserves to be. ...more NEW REVIEW IN 2014. REASONS YOU NEED THE TRAUMA OF THE GONE SERIES IN YOUR LIFE: 1. Humour! Yay! Funniness! I am a complete sucker for funniness. I love laughing. And books that can have me grinning and laughing OUT LOUD? They get a huge shiny sticker of happiness. Sam rocks for witty comebacks. Diana's sarcasm is brilliant. Astrid's a smartie, and...well, sometimes she leave everyone in the dust: \"Let's keep moving,\" Sam said. \"Don't worry about Little Pete. We'll find him.\" \"Is that meant to be a NEW REVIEW IN 2014. REASONS YOU NEED THE TRAUMA OF THE GONE SERIES IN YOUR LIFE: 1. Humour! Yay! Funniness! I am a complete sucker for funniness. I love laughing. And books that can have me grinning and laughing OUT LOUD? They get a huge shiny sticker of happiness. Sam rocks for witty comebacks. Diana's sarcasm is brilliant. Astrid's a smartie, and...well, sometimes she leave everyone in the dust: \"Let's keep moving,\" Sam said. \"Don't worry about Little Pete. We'll find him.\" \"Is that meant to be a pro forma reassurance or a specific commitment?\" Astrid said. \"Sorry?\" 2. Writing is crispy. Yum. I like books that just gets in and say what needs to be said. CUT THE FLUFF! Gone does this really well. Although, I can argue with myself (if I'm so Gollum-ish-ly inclined) that there are too many POVs and sometimes the pace drags. It's 550-pages. That's one big book. Chopping a few of the wandering story-lines would have tightened things up. But at least there's no fluffy description or mincing words. Woot! 3. And it's scary. I love a bit of YA horror. Creepy stuff? Psychotic characters? Unexplainable superpowers? Seriously warped events? Gone has it all. It. is. horrible. It dives into some seriously gory and freaky subjects. Buuut this is just the prelude. The little glimpse of things to come. YOU'VE SEEN NOTHING TILL YOU READ BOOK #6. 4. Can we talk about the characters now? Gone stars some of my favouritest characters of ever. I'll only talk about a few, but trust me, the character development over the 6-books is phenomenal. Sam He's definitely my favourite. The book's mostly told from his point-of-view (POV...because that's the lazy way to write it). He's unassuming, probably introverted, calm and steady Sam. He gets seriously messed up. BUT he can shoot light out of his hands. As you do. I'm sure there's no connection to the Supernatural Sam. Although if Gone-Sam had a Supernatural-Dean...I'M JUST SAYING THINGS WOULD BE BETTER FOR HIM. Astrid & Little Pete Families are the best! Astrid is a genius and Little Pete is her 4-year-old autistic brother. It's so adorable how Astrid will do anything for her brother, even though he hardly responds to her. I love these two! Even if Little Pete is not what he seems and Astrid is a know-it-all! Caine & Diana There are the public school kids, and then there are the rich-psycho-private-school-kids. Caine and Diana are the \"bad kids\". Caine is controlling (also has telekinesis powers) and Diana is Miss Manipulative. On a scale of 1 to Pure Evil, these two are dancing around an 8. Drake Bully. Creep. I hate him. Quinn He's the most disappointing dude in the series. I think Quinn represents the majority of us. How would YOU handle your world changing into some sort of mutant sphere that you couldn't escape from, with no rules, and kids with crazy superpowers suddenly vying for world domination? You'd freak. Quinn does. He's brought into the picture as Sam's quirky and confident BFF. But as the book goes on? Quinn is a snivelling worm. It's sad, his demise, but I think very potent. The characters are ALL super dimensional, with just a few words. There were POVs I didn't really care about, but, I'm still in awe how there are SO many characters and they all have personalities with multiple layers. Talent? I think so. 5. Kids are crazy. Just sayin'. YOU imagine a world without adults. With no one \"running\" the world. When the oldest person is 14-years-old and not even out of Middle School (or Primary School, as we say in Australia). Things ain't going to fly well. We live in a high-maintenance society and even adults have mental breakdowns trying to run the world. Imagine kids doing it. Imagine already psycho kids doing it. 6. Let's just snatch up all these kids and give them a cuddle. I still like Sam's idea of \"everyone just have a cookie and calm down\". This kid has brains, I like him. At the end of book #1 I just want to reach in there and snatch these kids up and give them multiple pieces of pie and not let them go through the horrors and tortures that lead to book, #6: Light . But then again, out of all 6 books, I think Light is my favourite. We wouldn't want to miss it, now, would we? (Just...um, just don't let the Winchesters in to clean up this mess, okay?) Okay, off you pop. Go read it. If I'm going to be emotionally drained and invested in these series, then you should be too. We can be in pain together. ORIGINALLY REVIEWED IN JANUARY, 2011. Gone is a surprisingly dramatic, well written novel -- geared at upper primary and teens. It's a gripping thriller that will make you keep reading. The size is a little daunting, but worth it. The author keep several story lines going, giving each the needed attention, but without too much rambling information. You'll keep turning the pages to see what's happening to the heroes -- Sam and Astrid. The characters are realistic and relatable. You find yourself getting engaged in the plot as well as the characters lives, feelings and thoughts. The characters are rational -- and they grow as the story progresses. Some of the plot developments are a bit wild, obviously left open to be fulfilled in the sequels. Kids develop mutant powers and the depravity of man is explored. What would happen if there were no adults left? What kind of kids take charge? School bullies suddenly become much more dangerous. Kids look for someone to assure them, to tell them what's happening and what they need to do. Sam shies away from the task -- and Caine takes it. Is it worth standing up for what's right? Or is it safer to step back and let the cruel and inhumane do as they please? It's a thought provoking novel, though, not without it's wild twists and subplots that are never fully explained. Well-worth the read. ...more Questo libro ragazzi \u00e8 un must read! Originale in un mondo di ya che ormai ricicla sempre gli stessi temi, ben strutturato e con idee uniche! Non vedo l'ora di leggere il secondo volume della serie perch\u00e8 non posso assolutamente restare con tutte le domande con cui Miachael Grant mi ha lasciato alla fine di questo libro. Leggetelo, leggetelo, leggetelo! Non ve ne pentirete assolutamente. 4.5 Stars! This book was fun, funny and very fast paced!I really like all of the weirdness in this book. I also liked a lot of the characters! I think what I loved the most was the well roundness of the characters. We have a super dude, a Mexican, we have a challenged little kid and we have the teens from an academy their parents sent them because they were trouble. I recommend this book a lot. Can't wait to get to the sequel! It's a normal November morning at Perdido Beach, a small town of about 3,000 on the California coast jokingly called Fallout Alley by the locals because of the nuclear power plant not far away. Normal, that is, until, at eighteen past ten, everyone fifteen and older disappears in the blink of an eye. Babies to fourteen year olds are the only ones left - bewildered, lost, afraid, alone. Grade nine students Sam, his best friend Quinn, and Astrid the Genius are quick to realise what's happened, but It's a normal November morning at Perdido Beach, a small town of about 3,000 on the California coast jokingly called Fallout Alley by the locals because of the nuclear power plant not far away. Normal, that is, until, at eighteen past ten, everyone fifteen and older disappears in the blink of an eye. Babies to fourteen year olds are the only ones left - bewildered, lost, afraid, alone. Grade nine students Sam, his best friend Quinn, and Astrid the Genius are quick to realise what's happened, but no one knows why. Sam is afraid it might have something to do with him and his secret: a powerful, burning light that comes out of his hands and literally burned his ex-step-father's hand off several months before. The town is in disorder, and everyone's coming to Sam for help. He is, after all, the kid who saved a busload of students once by taking control when the driver had a stroke. But Sam doesn't want to be a leader. When he goes with Astrid to find her little autistic brother, Pete, they discover that there's a barrier, a never-ending wall, separating them from everyone else - and that the power plant is the exact centre of what what appears to be a sphere, isolating them. One kid dubs it FAYZ: Fallout Alley Youth Zone, and the name sticks. The barrier and how it came to be isn't the only mystery. When people turn fifteen, they blink out, disappear, and no one knows whether they die or go to the other side of the wall. There's also the question of powers and mutations: Sam soon learns that he's not the only one with weird powers. Animals have been affected too, from flying cobras to talking coyotes. When the kids from Coates Academy, a boarding school for problematic rich kids, turn up and take over, sides are quickly drawn. Soon it's a fight for survival against some powerful bullies, and the clock is ticking down for Sam: he'll turn fifteen soon, but first he has to save the kids from the perfectly charming, arrogant and devious Caine and his sadistic friend Drake - opponents who pale in comparison with the Darkness hiding beneath the ground... It wasn't until I started writing this review that I discovered there are maps at the beginning of the book. Maps! I love maps! It would have made it all the more enjoyable to have had them while I was reading this, because they do travel around the FAYZ zone quite a bit. Ah well. I could easily rate this higher; there's lots to love - and I did love it. It's quite the tour de force , a gripping premise, layers upon layers of mystery and fantastical surprises, endearing characters, post-apocalyptic tension and anticipation, and a nice slice of fear. One reviewer on the back cover likened it to Lord of the Flies written by Stephen King - not a bad comparison. It certainly has that terrifying LotF scenario of young kids gone wild. Each chapter counts down the hours and minutes backwards from Sam's looming birthday, adding to the tension and the feeling of something inescapable and bad about to happen. Between the various supporting cast, several side stories are played out and the ups and downs of a young teens life are aired. You get to know each and every one of them, and come to care for them as well. This book will take you mere hours to read but they will be hours where you'll live in Perdido Beach. It's quite disorientating to be distracted from its pages. It's hard to pinpoint why I notched the rating down one. Some of the characters were a bit too simplistic, bordering on clich\u00e9, and sometimes the prose - lots of very short sentences - bothered me. I would also question whether anyone can \"come out of\" their seatbelt under any circumstances. I've never heard of that happening and it ruined an otherwise compelling scene, rendering it a mere plot device. After a bit of a slow start, Gone will suck you in and hold you fast. Cleverly plotted, fast paced, scary and engrossing, the only difficulty I really had was what genre to shove it in. Magic powers and a thing of darkness: fantasy. Happening in our world, modern times: urban fantasy. End of the world as we know it - for the kids at least: Apocalyptic/post-apocalyptic. Freaky barrier and unknown but possibly explainable mysteries involving the universe: science fiction. Scary wild kids pitted against good kids, scary wilderness with carnivorous animals and a very toothy monster: horror. I'm going with fantasy here but if you enjoy any of these genres, in the YA style, you'll like this. ...more Character development: 4/5 Writing:4/5 Plot:5/5 very clever Overall: 4.3/5 enjoyed the series loads but I feel like it starts dragging on in the 5th book. Welcome to the FAYZ, short for Fallout Alley Youth Zone. There\u2019s no one who\u2019s over the age of fourteen; they\u2019ve all \u201cpoofed,\u201d they\u2019re just gone. But the strangeness only starts there. There\u2019s a circular wall, or maybe dome, surrounding the land within a ten-mile radius from the nuclear plant. The wall is impenetrable and burns you if you touch it. There are strange mutations in the animals, such as seagulls with talons, winged snakes, and talking coyotes. Some kids have also developed strange po Welcome to the FAYZ, short for Fallout Alley Youth Zone. There\u2019s no one who\u2019s over the age of fourteen; they\u2019ve all \u201cpoofed,\u201d they\u2019re just gone. But the strangeness only starts there. There\u2019s a circular wall, or maybe dome, surrounding the land within a ten-mile radius from the nuclear plant. The wall is impenetrable and burns you if you touch it. There are strange mutations in the animals, such as seagulls with talons, winged snakes, and talking coyotes. Some kids have also developed strange powers. The rules of the world are changing, and Sam is running out of time before he turns fourteen and is bound to poof. The kids from Coates Academy come down to the town of Perdido Beach, and one of them, named Caine, basically takes over. He acts as if he\u2019s benevolent, but people are dying, and it\u2019s because his sheriff and Captain Orc\u2019s little gang of bullies keep beating people up who break the rules imposed on them by Caine. And while some of these rules are actually valid, others prevent people from gaining any power to oppose Caine. Sam, Quinn, Edilio, Astrid, and Little Pete find themselves thrown together for survival. Sam knows that something is off about Caine, and he also has a power to shoot fire from his hands. They are constantly running from Caine or one of his allies. They eventually meet a girl Lana, who is a healer, and discover that Little Pete has special abilities of his own. When they save a bunch of kids with power from Caine, who had them imprisoned with their hands cemented in blocks, the kids join their movement to take Caine down. The struggle escalates, and all their lives are at stake. When I first read the summary for this book, I was extremely intrigued. This new world is almost like a parallel universe. I really enjoyed the references to Harry Potter, Star Wars, Hollywood, Agent Orange (the bad), and other literary works. Reading into Astrid and Sam trying to figure out where they were and what was happening to their world was very stimulating. There is a lot of exciting action in this novel, and even though the kids\u2019 powers sometimes seemed like they were taken from the movie The Incredibles, I still enjoyed it. I wanted to cheer and scream at the ending of the novel, and I really hope there will be a sequel to this book. Gone was simply an amazing book; I don\u2019t think I can stress that fact enough, and I recommend it to everyone. This book is very thick, and I hope its length will not discourage anyone from reading this fantastic story. reposted from http://thebookmuncher.blogspot.com ...more This is kind of embarrassing to admit, but I avoided this series for a while because I thought it was an offshoot of those Left Behind books. I know, I know. I should probably read them before I make any snap judgments, but I have absolutely no desire to read a series about The Rapture. At all. Ever. Anyhoo. Thankfully, this series has nothing to do with that. * Ok. Stop laughing at me! I only glanced at the blurb a few years ago! You gotta admit that \"Blah, blah, blah, a bunch of people disappear. This is kind of embarrassing to admit, but I avoided this series for a while because I thought it was an offshoot of those Left Behind books. I know, I know. I should probably read them before I make any snap judgments, but I have absolutely no desire to read a series about The Rapture. At all. Ever. Anyhoo. Thankfully, this series has nothing to do with that. * Ok. Stop laughing at me! I only glanced at the blurb a few years ago! You gotta admit that \"Blah, blah, blah, a bunch of people disappear...\" sounds a lot like those other books! * Alright, the story begins with a bunch of kids sitting in class when all of a sudden the teacher just goes... Poof . It soon becomes apparent that every adult, and all the kids over 15 are Gone . Hence, ahem, the name of the book. It took a few chapters for me to get interested, because I wasn't really in the mood to read about a bunch of middle schoolers. However, eventually the story won me over. I'd like to say it was because some of the events were more realistic than I'd anticipated for a book geared toward tweens. Especially the part where they find a dead toddler in one of the houses. Unfortunately, it's more likely that I became fully engaged in the story once I found out that some of these kids were developing powers. Mutants! Cool! The characters were pretty developed for a middle grade reader, as well. Quinn was one of the better examples. He's not evil, but he is a coward. I enjoyed watching him struggle, making both good and bad choices along the way. His fear, complacence, guilt, and redemption power the background of the plot. And he's not even the main character. So, definitely not part of the Left Behind series. More like Lord of the Flies meets X-Men meets...some other book with a big scary (as of yet) unseen monster. Sorry. Brain fart. Couldn't think of a book to describe the last thing, although it's on the tip of my tongue . Read it. See what you think. Personally, I really liked it. ...more The big question in my head most of this book, was \"who is the target audience?\" Nobody in the book is over 15 (despite the 18-year-olds on the awful cover), so you'd think 13 or 14 year-olds, but at close to 600 pages, I can't see most of them reading this. And if you get too old, stories about abandoned children--babies--dying of neglect might bother you, or maybe even stories where you'd have disappeared because you've hit your 15th birthday. But despite all that, it's a great premise with a The big question in my head most of this book, was \"who is the target audience?\" Nobody in the book is over 15 (despite the 18-year-olds on the awful cover), so you'd think 13 or 14 year-olds, but at close to 600 pages, I can't see most of them reading this. And if you get too old, stories about abandoned children--babies--dying of neglect might bother you, or maybe even stories where you'd have disappeared because you've hit your 15th birthday. But despite all that, it's a great premise with a lot of fantastic twists that drive the story forward. I'd say this is one of those few YA books that really appeals to guys more than girls. My other question was: is there really that much of a hierarchy of bullies and that many sociopaths in any given society? I realize when society breaks down, so does civilization, but that many \"bad kids\" was a little unbelievable for me. However, some of those villains are very strong though and thoroughly creepy and they were great assets to the tension in the story. All the characters are very well fleshed out. And the other characters are very likable. Sam is the quiet kid who acts heroically when disaster is thrust upon him and Astrid the quiet know-it-all with a big heart. No matter what had happened, I would have been interested in their story and rooted for them. Grant did a good job adding twists and turns and unexpected problems along the way. It's a very creative story. I was a little disappointed with the open ending, but all-in-all a good read. Those meet-doom-around-every-bend thrillers aren't my favorite (thus why I'd recommend the book more to guys than girls), but it's well written and creative. I can only imagine where Grant takes the series from here. ...more So I edited this book, and it kicks serious butt. \"If Stephen King wrote Lord of the Flies ,\" says VOYA in its starred review, and they've pegged it well. Plus a dash of Lost and, urm, Heroes . So freaking good that I get all hyperbolic about it. Gone begins in the quiet, seaside town of Perdido Beach. A seemingly ordinary day is quickly transformed into one of confusion and mass hysteria when everyone over the age of fourteen suddenly disappears without a trace. In the absence of parents, teachers, doctors, and police, the children are left to fend for themselves. The lack of phones, internet, and television, as well as the quickly diminishing food supply convert the children's initial shock into terror. As the remaining citizens of Per Gone begins in the quiet, seaside town of Perdido Beach. A seemingly ordinary day is quickly transformed into one of confusion and mass hysteria when everyone over the age of fourteen suddenly disappears without a trace. In the absence of parents, teachers, doctors, and police, the children are left to fend for themselves. The lack of phones, internet, and television, as well as the quickly diminishing food supply convert the children's initial shock into terror. As the remaining citizens of Perdido Beach struggle to determine what's happened, they notice that animals have mutated and the teens themselves have developed strange and potentially deadly powers, growing stronger with each passing day. As Perdido Beach spirals into further turmoil, fear and hunger reign and war becomes imminent. If you've been searching for a worthy replacement for The Hunger Games , your efforts have not been in vain. Michael Grant's first installment in the Gone Series incorporates an excellent combination of post-apocalyptic YA, the fight for survival, and a suspenseful plot. Fourteen year old Sam Temple was a fantastic protagonist who assumed the role of a reluctant leader throughout the novel, preferring to remain in the shadows instead of immediately jumping at the opportunity to hold a position of power. His notable courage and determination were evident when he stood up for what he believed in and worked endlessly to discover what had happened to the adults of Perdido Beach. As for Astrid, I found her portrayal as a heroine both brilliant and intriguing. I also found her interactions with her autistic younger brother touching. Her relationship with Sam developed slowly over the course of the book, allowing readers to watch their transformation from complete strangers to close friends. I would have preferred, however, that their relationship progress at a slightly faster pace; this would have more readily held my attention toward the beginning of the book. I was initially somewhat confused when the book shifted from Sam's POV to that of a female character by the name of Lana. Their stories did not appear to be connected in any way until they meet up later in the book. I found it challenging to adjust to the abrupt narrator changes, which disrupted the flow. I would become so engrossed in Sam's story that I would forget about Lana, struggling to recall where she was and what she was doing when the story returned to her point of view, and vice versa. Consequently, I feel that a third person omniscient narrator would have been a better choice in this situation. I was immediately drawn into the story by the realistic characters and interesting concept. Approximately 50 pages into the book, however, the plot became slow and tedious, causing me to quickly lose interest. I'm glad that I continue reading, though, because the plot picked up again 30 pages later, and the book began living up to its classification as an apocalyptic thriller. There was a noticeable increase in the pace of the book which managed to hold my attention until the final page. While many questions were left unanswered at the conclusion of the novel, Grant incorporated a suspenseful cliffhanger that to compel readers to pick up the next book in the series. I must admit, this was a successful tactic. Readers who tend to avoid more gruesome books should be warned that there are a few disturbing scenes, similar to those found in The Hunger Games . These scenes often depicted the aftermath, instead of the events as they occurred. I would strongly recommend this book to: readers with a bit of patience to make it through the slow, uninteresting portion of the book without giving up, anyone who enjoyed the concept of The Hunger Games , action enthusiasts who enjoyed the fight scenes in Divergent and The Maze Runner Trilogy , those who were fond of the reckless nature of the characters in Fahrenheit 451 , readers who enjoyed the fast pace and suspense of I Am Number Four , and anyone in search of an exciting, quick read. ...more Dropped at 294 pages. Me: Why I Recommend Bumping This Down On Your TBR : Michael Grant made problematic statements about children diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder being a burden, he called his Native character a throw-away, and he said something about his Front Lines novel being more fiction than reality in that women were never involved in the war? Sources: https://www.goodreads.com/user_status...", "Title": "Gone"},
