{"Comments": "In the paranormal world, is it possible to bring some fresh fodder for consumption to the reading table? Believe it or not, yes and it\u2019s coming from a new chef on the block, <---A>Kia Carrington-Russell</---A>. <+++>Possession of My Soul</+++> has many of the trappings of the paranormal world,<---M> a teen who never really fit in</---M>, filled with all of the normal teen insecurities , who is rudely awakened to the fact that she is different, special and she has a purpose that goes far beyond bringing home a 4.<---F>0 average</---F>. Here\u2019s wh In the paranormal world, is it possible to bring some fresh fodder for consumption to the reading table? Believe it or not, yes and it\u2019s coming from a new chef on the block, Kia Carrington-Russell. <+++>Possession of My Soul</+++> has many of the trappings of the paranormal world, a teen who never really fit in, filled with all of the normal teen insecurities , who is rudely awakened to the fact that she is different, special and she has a purpose that goes far beyond bringing home a 4.0 average. Here\u2019s where we take our first turn off the beaten path, and what an adventure this is! Karla learns she has the blood of a demon flowing through her veins, not because of ancestral lines, but through a transfusion given to her mother while she was pregnant. Finally, there is a reason for her headaches, not that it\u2019s a pleasant one. Within her lives a demon, trapped and fighting to come out. All around her new world are beings capable of killing, battling each other with magical weapons, each being looks human, but their powers vary. Oh and there are good guys and bad guys, depending on whose \u201cteam\u201d you are on, I suppose. Caught up in a very loose triangle, Karla finds herself drawn to a boy from her human world and one from her new world. One of them is not who she thinks. One of them will betray her. When the time for battle arrives, who will stand with Karla, who will stand against her? A monstrous evil is rising to power and no one is safe, but Karla is on a mission and will not be deterred. I think Kia Carrington-Russell has hit one out of the ball park! Her characters are uniquely individual, some with agendas, some not, and part of the fun of this tale is trying to figure out who is who. Ms. Carrington \u2013Russell has put a whole new slant on demons, good vs evil and the inner turmoil faced by her heroine, a determined young woman who is dealing with her new life, the best she can. Fast-paced, with action scenes that come alive, pain that feels real and those few moments of banter that lightens the tone. From the dialogue to the plot and each scene in between, I was hooked. I received this copy from Kia Carrington-Russell in exchange for my honest review. Series: The Three Immortal Blades - Book 1 Publication Date: May 12, 2014 Publisher: Kia Carrington-Russell Genre: Urban Fantasy | Paranormal Print Length: 258 pages Available from: Amazon ...more Karla was just your average shy girl who everyone could walk past and never \"see\" her. Her sidekick friend was the pretty one who always got all of the attention. So why did Paul, who every girl was fighting over, start to make conversation and happen to \"appear\" where ever she was. And why was a stranger willing to fight Paul over her. Suddenly, her life became anything but average. But when you are sharing your body and your mind with an immortal being and you are the last in her line that she Karla was just your average shy girl who everyone could walk past and never \"see\" her. Her sidekick friend was the pretty one who always got all of the attention. So why did Paul, who every girl was fighting over, start to make conversation and happen to \"appear\" where ever she was. And why was a stranger willing to fight Paul over her. Suddenly, her life became anything but average. But when you are sharing your body and your mind with an immortal being and you are the last in her line that she can inhabit - \"boring\" can be erased from your dictionary. Karla learns that she is a \"Shielder\", and while she is teaching veteran shielders a thing or two that they have never seen before, she lacks control over it. While struggling to learn how to use her shield - she is thrust into a war that has been raging, unbeknownst to the average person, for quite a long time. You see, Starkoffs and Shielders mix together as well as bleach with brand new red clothes. When ever they meet - lots of red will lost (<---B>hey, I thought that was pretty clever! LOL</---B>). The pressure of realizing you have a \"power\" that you never knew you had, while trying to figure solve the age old problem of teenage girls everywhere (which boy they have a crush on), then discovering that your body can perform ninja like moves because it is controlled by an immortal being - it's enough to make anyone hear little voices in their head! Heck, killing Starkoffs might be the easiest thing that the ex-nerd Karla has to deal with!!! Possession of My Soul (The Three Immortal Blades) is the debut novel by the young author Kia Carrington-Russell. Good news to those who will enjoy this first novel by Carrington-Russell - there are two more coming! Her talent will only increase the more she writes, but don't wait until everyone is talking about her - be one of the first to follow what looks to be a long career of writing from Kia! If you like Young Adult Fantasy, with a touch of angst ridden semi-romance that never quite gets fulfilled - then this series is worth your attention. Strengths - Nice development of the plot and characters. Enough twists to keep your interest. - No spelling or grammar issues were found. - Good pacing between action scenes and plot development. Weaknesses - At points, I found Karla (from whose point of view the story is told) repeating her problems and difficulties a few too many times. But having a teenage daughter myself, this is definitely in character! - Some things just seem to \"happen\" without much of a buildup. For example, Karla learns some new tricks (such as \"hearing\" from the earth by draining some energy from it) just out of nowhere. To be fair, the story is told from Karla's point of view and she is being rushed to use her new found powers in battle well before she has and opportunity explore all of the new facets of it. - See more at: http://moviesandmanuscripts.blogspot.... ...more Possession of my Soul is the first book in a series which tells us the story of Karla Grey, a seemingly ordinary 17 year old who soon finds her life completely changed. Apparently she has been cursed and now has to deal with a whole new world, as well as a strange presence in her soul, trying to take over her thoughts and body. Positives - I liked that the romance part wasn't obvious. - There are some interesting ideas here and overall I enjoyed the world created by the author. - Some scenes wer Possession of my Soul is the first book in a series which tells us the story of Karla Grey, a seemingly ordinary 17 year old who soon finds her life completely changed. Apparently she has been cursed and now has to deal with a whole new world, as well as a strange presence in her soul, trying to take over her thoughts and body. Positives - I liked that the romance part wasn't obvious. - There are some interesting ideas here and overall I enjoyed the world created by the author. - Some scenes were pretty exciting. - In other books of the sort, I often find that the progression in fighting skills is too quick or non-existent. The main character goes from being ordinary to super powerful in a heartbeat. Here we don't have this issue, because the being who possesses Karla takes over in the fighting scenes. - I was pleased to see that even though this is the first book in a series, there were no excessive cliff-hangers in the end. You want to know what comes next but the book is still enjoyable as a stand alone, there is a fair sense of closure. - I liked how some of the characters weren't obviously good or bad. It really all depends on perspective. - The way the story was presented was quite appealing. The prologue being the turning point in Karla's story and then chapter 1 going back a few days previous, to introduce us to her regular life before everything started crashing down. Negatives: - Some things were very repetitive. I kept having d\u00e9j\u00e0 vu feelings at whole descriptions in general and certain expressions in particular. For instance, the fact that the author kept saying all the guys but Greg had a muscular frame got very old very fast, as well as the descriptions of hair and eyes. - Some references to what had been said previously made no sense, things that made me go back and reread and see if I missed something or misread it. Example: \"It just means my little girl's opening up from her shell (...) I hated it when she still called me her 'baby girl'. She didn't. She said little girl, not baby girl. (...)disrespect and defend that girl?(...) How am I a little girl? Again, nowhere does it say little girl, just girl. - At times the narrative did not feel very realistic, like when Karla first met and thought about Lucas. It didn't feel like he was a stranger, something was off. He was already 'Lucas', not 'that guy' or 'that strange young man' or whatever. Paul's intense interest in her seemed off as well, one minute they don't hang out at all and then next he is buying her an expensive dress. I didn't even get how he could afford to buy it. I mean, where did he get the money? We don't know much about him other than he likes to use his fists, has green eyes and dark hair. (view spoiler) [I just didn't get why he would drop everything to go with Karla towards the end. Maybe he had a crush on her for a while, but sorry, leaving everything like that for someone who doesn't even share the same interest as him just doesn't strike me as realistic. Where's his family in all this? His friends? He's a popular guy at school, for crying out loud! Why would he give everything up for someone he can't even really know, since he never really spent time with her? And Lucas. He went to live with Seth and Helena and the others since he was what, 7? At least that's what I recall from the story he told Karla, he went there shortly after the kitten thing. And yet neither does anyone but Karla seem to react to his betrayal nor does he seem affected at all to betray the people who raised him as their own, only focusing on how Karla made him feel because he had never met anyone who was so dependant on him?? Come on. (hide spoiler) ] - I was not a fan of the writing. There were several grammar issues, especially concerning wrong verb tenses ( The last ten minutes of my life was wasted ; As of late I didn't had the time ), misspellings such as then instead of than, too instead of to, gentlemen instead of gentleman, you're instead of your, weapon's instead of weapons...; singular instead of plural and vice versa ( Karla. Paul. If you cannot restrain yourself enough (\u2026) ); and an absolute absence of punctuation at times, particularly lack of commas when addressing someone \"In only a short time Karla we will reunite you with your family.\" , periods instead of question marks (I stopped taking notes after a while), etc. So the writing felt too colloquial, as if it wasn't a priority at all, and I didn't appreciate it. The book should be properly edited. - Even though there was plenty of action, at times I felt the book dragged on, both because of the repetitiveness mentioned above and the descriptions of her thoughts (all the questions and the crying...) - all that made me not relate much to the character, even though I am sure the effect intended was the exact opposite. On the other hand, in other occasions too much information was given at a time. - Again I find the book synopsis was a bit too revealing for my taste. Conclusion: I wish there had been more work put into the development of characters and that the writing had been more polished, but overall Possession of my Heart is an entertaining read and I do recommend it to fantasy lovers out there. I received a free copy of this book in exchange for my honest review. ...more Check out my blog to see Reviews of Books and Movies as well as Recipes and DIY projects Possession Of My Soul is written by Kia Carrington-Russell and is the first book in the Three Immortal Blades Series. The story revolves around the main character Karla, who is an unassuming teenage girl who finds herself thrust amidst a war, where each side of the fight remains unclear in their true intentions. Karla as a character is relatable. She isn\u2019t annoying in a way that some main characters can be. Sh Check out my blog to see Reviews of Books and Movies as well as Recipes and DIY projects Possession Of My Soul is written by Kia Carrington-Russell and is the first book in the Three Immortal Blades Series. The story revolves around the main character Karla, who is an unassuming teenage girl who finds herself thrust amidst a war, where each side of the fight remains unclear in their true intentions. Karla as a character is relatable. She isn\u2019t annoying in a way that some main characters can be. She finds herself coming into her own with womanhood as well as newfound abilities. My main complaint about her, was that I don\u2019t think that any of her love interests were believably built up. I wanted there to be more of a background to the emotions. There is a lot of thrust upon emotions in terms of those who acquire her fancy. Otherwise, I enjoyed getting to see her find herself and find ways to stand up to adversity and find a strength she never knew she was capable of. The story itself is an interesting take on fantasy. There are a lot of typical factors, but shown in a new light. There are Starkorfs who are essentially vampires, but almost in a zombie type of fashion if they are not of very pure blood. There was not any real detail about the actual way that one would become a Starkorf, or if it is merely something that one is born into. If so, it would be interesting to know more details about how actual procreation worked, if it was any different than humans, those sorts of aspects. Given that this is the first book of the series, it would be good to see if that was explained in more detail in later books. I did enjoy the ancillary characters and getting to know them. They did seem as if to be from a distance as a reader. The connection with their emotions wasn\u2019t quite there. Truly reading this book felt like it was going to be a 3 star type of book about 75% of the way in. Kia definitely pulls it out for the last part of the book which caused me to up my rating to 4 stars. She definitely ends in a blaze of glory and leaves her ready to read more of the story. Overall I give this book 4/5 stars. Kia has potential as an author as she hones her writing skills. I hope to see more of a connection into the feelings of the characters of a world that she does a great job describing. I love a lot of the new twists on unique abilities and would love to read an entire book about the elementals as well as some background about a particular wolf creature. If you are into fantasy, paranormal, young adult, fiction, woman empowering, romance, etc, you may very well find yourself interested in this book. *I received a copy of this book for free in exchange for a fair and honest review. ...more This is a review from SN BookReviews. You want a great hot read then you found it!!! This book is exciting and full of adventures, betrayal, love, dedication, sacrifice and much more. It gives you all different emotions that sends your mind on a roller coaster! Kia Carrington-Russell paranormal author is talented. I fell in love with this book! Karla is strong willed and sweet person all rolled in one. At first I wasn't sure about her character but as she grows in maturity and coming into her sel This is a review from SN BookReviews. You want a great hot read then you found it!!! This book is exciting and full of adventures, betrayal, love, dedication, sacrifice and much more. It gives you all different emotions that sends your mind on a roller coaster! Kia Carrington-Russell paranormal author is talented. I fell in love with this book! Karla is strong willed and sweet person all rolled in one. At first I wasn't sure about her character but as she grows in maturity and coming into her self especially as a shielded, you find her easy to like. Kia book grabs your attention from the start and her words flow effortlessly with an impact of emotion that leaves breathless. Karla is a normal girl or so she thinks. Then one day she is on her first date with Paul which she is learning its ok to let someone shower you with affection. One minute shes a normal teenager then the next as soon as she bumps into a stranger her life turns into a whole different world. Her body goes crazy! When she wakes up she finds her self in a strange place with these creatures after her. With the help of new friends she learns about herself and goes on an adventure of a lifetime. Can she handle all this that life has thrown her? I am so excited to read the next book in this series. I'm ready to dig in an read what adventures happen next! The author us exceptionally talented at c cliffhangers as well. Boy I did not see that coming. Kia you got it going on Kia!! Lol. So if you are looking for an epic adventure with a paranormal twist then you've found it. I found myself feeling all different emotions and that is true talent. So hold on to your seats and dig in!! ...more 3.5 STARS ***I received the eBook free as a review copy from the author in exchange for an honest review*** I thought I was going into this book not knowing much, and it\u2019s only now that I realise even though there were a lot of twists the synopsis was very revealing. It didn\u2019t ruin the book for me at all though, because like I said I only just realised! This might be because Possession of my Soul is Kia\u2019s first novel, but I have to say it\u2019s a very impressive kick start into the bookosphere (that\u2019s 3.5 STARS ***I received the eBook free as a review copy from the author in exchange for an honest review*** I thought I was going into this book not knowing much, and it\u2019s only now that I realise even though there were a lot of twists the synopsis was very revealing. It didn\u2019t ruin the book for me at all though, because like I said I only just realised! This might be because Possession of my Soul is Kia\u2019s first novel, but I have to say it\u2019s a very impressive kick start into the bookosphere (that\u2019s now officially a thing\u2026 because I said so\u2026). Her writing isn\u2019t amateurish like some people expect from debuts and her style was very clear from that start. Filled with action sequences and generally never a calm moment, this was my type of book. Simple as that. At times it felt rushed, or explanations about the little details were skipped so the plot could move faster and the perfectionist readers out there might not like that so much, but I found it just made it a lighter read (as light as you can get with so much possession and death)! On the whole, I really enjoyed this book (even though at the start I wanted to punch Karla; however she did grow on me when she got stronger for the people she loved which was an admirable feat) and I look forward to reading more of Kia\u2019s work. Posted on: http://enchantedbyya.blogspot.co.uk/ ...more I received this book from the author in return for an honest to goodness review. I am a part of the Review Team @ The Paranormal Bookshelf. Category: Paranormal fantasy Spoilers: NONE Book #1 in The Immortal Blades series For the first book from this author, I have to say, I am very impressed. There were times in which I was very lost because of the amount of information that was given. With that being said, that was the only true downfall I found. For a first book there wasn't a lot of issues wit I received this book from the author in return for an honest to goodness review. I am a part of the Review Team @ The Paranormal Bookshelf. Category: Paranormal fantasy Spoilers: NONE Book #1 in The Immortal Blades series For the first book from this author, I have to say, I am very impressed. There were times in which I was very lost because of the amount of information that was given. With that being said, that was the only true downfall I found. For a first book there wasn't a lot of issues with plot, grammar, etc... There is a OMG ending for those of you who need to know before you read. Karla, the books main female character had moments where she was annoying and times when she stepped up in her situation and I think that she has room to grow throughout the series. This book does not disappoint, there is a lot details and a lot of action throughout. All in all, a great start to this series. So with all of this, we gave the book 4.7 out of 5 stars. ...more Loved this debut novel! On the surface, Karla appears to be the average teenager \u2013 friendship woes, her family struggling financially and dealing with the usual angst \u2013 school, detention and boys. This fa\u00e7ade quickly disappears as Karla is plunged into a world that is beyond her imagination. How could she, just a regular person, be a defender of human life? How could she do battle against those who were killing humans in their continuing fight for power and a thirst for immortality. Without her p Loved this debut novel! On the surface, Karla appears to be the average teenager \u2013 friendship woes, her family struggling financially and dealing with the usual angst \u2013 school, detention and boys. This fa\u00e7ade quickly disappears as Karla is plunged into a world that is beyond her imagination. How could she, just a regular person, be a defender of human life? How could she do battle against those who were killing humans in their continuing fight for power and a thirst for immortality. Without her parents support, Karla must grow up quickly \u2013 who is her friend in this new world? Who can she trust? While struggling to adapt, she must also face a years old curse that has made her vulnerable at a time when she needs all her strength. How will this teenager deal with her frightening new reality? At first I was a bit confused. Was I reading urban fantasy, paranormal, fantasy? I quickly realized what I was reading was a well-written debut novel. The author has brought together intriguing characters which blend and meld into a wonderfully told, suspense-filled plot. Karla is seemingly a typical teenager struggling with the usual problems. A car accident is the catalyst that plunges her into a frightening new world. Learning to defend herself in life-threatening battles \u2013 hand to hand combat to the death - Karla must also determine friends from foes. Things are not always as they seem. As the curse manifests itself in different ways the struggle and intensity only deepens. While there are almost a dizzying number of characters introduced in this first installment, and I found myself a bit lost at times, I liked the story a lot. Book 1 was fast-paced, engaging and the cliff-hanger ending has me eagerly looking for the next book in the series. ...more Reviewed by Whitney@ Shooting Stars Reviews Possession of My Soul begins when some strange things start happening to Karla, and she thinks she's being followed. Then the strangest thing of all happens.. Something no one can figure out exactly why it happened. It leads Karla to a whole new world with things she never once thought existed, and people she's unsure if she can trust. Now, she must struggle to figure things out before it's too late, and get back to her family. This book hooked me from t Reviewed by Whitney@ Shooting Stars Reviews Possession of My Soul begins when some strange things start happening to Karla, and she thinks she's being followed. Then the strangest thing of all happens.. Something no one can figure out exactly why it happened. It leads Karla to a whole new world with things she never once thought existed, and people she's unsure if she can trust. Now, she must struggle to figure things out before it's too late, and get back to her family. This book hooked me from the prologue! That was freaking awesome, however, the rest of the story wasn't as great as that. I think it was because I never really connected with or liked the heroine. I didn't like how she came off at first, and then I really didn't like how she seemed to cry all the time. Other then that though the whole plot line was very interesting, and unique. It had lots of twists and turns that totally surprised me all the way to the end. This is a very interesting story, and I look forward to reading more. ...more This is the very first book that I have read by Kia!!! This book was amazing. I enjoyed reading it. I literally can see while reading this book; everything I read being played out as if I was watching an exciting movie. This book kept me entertained from start to finish. The reason it took me a bit to read is that I was sick. I loved Karla, the main character in the book. She seems to be a shy girl at first but she has to learn to be a fighter. As you may or may not know I do not give out spoilers This is the very first book that I have read by Kia!!! This book was amazing. I enjoyed reading it. I literally can see while reading this book; everything I read being played out as if I was watching an exciting movie. This book kept me entertained from start to finish. The reason it took me a bit to read is that I was sick. I loved Karla, the main character in the book. She seems to be a shy girl at first but she has to learn to be a fighter. As you may or may not know I do not give out spoilers! I recommend if you want to read a book that has action, fantasy, and strong women in their books- READ this one!!! It was Great\u2764\ufe0f ...more This is different than other paranormal books I've read and totally enjoyed it. Karla thought she was an ordinary girl until one night that changed the world as she knew. All of a sudden she wasn't your regular kid in school, working a part time job to earn some money nope she has special abilities and is expected to fight others to help save the humans. Oh throw in someone else inside her body with her makes for a very interesting and suspenseful read. The author wrote a different and great sto This is different than other paranormal books I've read and totally enjoyed it. Karla thought she was an ordinary girl until one night that changed the world as she knew. All of a sudden she wasn't your regular kid in school, working a part time job to earn some money nope she has special abilities and is expected to fight others to help save the humans. Oh throw in someone else inside her body with her makes for a very interesting and suspenseful read. The author wrote a different and great story with very strong characters that make you want to know what happens next. I can't wait to read the next book to find out what does happen ...more I have to say I didn't know much about this book going into it but once I found out more I was so keen! BEWARE SPOILERS. So this book. THIS BOOK. Well it was action packed and funny and I just loooved the characters. I didn't expect to cry in this book but guess what! I was bawling at the end after the betrayal and the death... it was so epic... I just can't wait until Possession of My Heart. I RECOMMEND IT TO EVERYONE :) thanks Kia! It was an amazing book with an original story line. Such a huge plot twist near the end which made my heart drop but it made the story more interesting and engaging. The characters are amazing and developed really well throughout the book. I can't wait to start the next book! Kia is an amazing author, a talented woman and i am so excited to be delving into her fantasy world. Can't wait to read more and I would recommend this book Xoxo My first, and my favourite. \"The burden of self-discovery is to find, not who you are but what you are.\" Karla was a normal teenage girl, somewhat quiet and shy, one who often listened to her best friend rant on and on about her beau dujour whom most recently is Paul. \"She is going to be the end of me.\" was Karla's thought just before she was caught in the wrath of her teacher and sentenced to detention with Paul, the class clown-as Karla so lovingly thought of him. Although while together in detention, she finds that she m \"The burden of self-discovery is to find, not who you are but what you are.\" Karla was a normal teenage girl, somewhat quiet and shy, one who often listened to her best friend rant on and on about her beau dujour whom most recently is Paul. \"She is going to be the end of me.\" was Karla's thought just before she was caught in the wrath of her teacher and sentenced to detention with Paul, the class clown-as Karla so lovingly thought of him. Although while together in detention, she finds that she may be more interested in him than she ever realized. \"I can't understand why Sarah would want to be suspended simply so she could get attention from Paul. And I most certainly can't grasp why I keep thinking of Paul.\" As she starts to let herself enjoy his interest tragedy strikes. \"The pain was like venom triggering every nerve in my body to shut down. I can't handle it anymore, \" I love you, I gasped into the phone, while tears replaced the rain drenching my face.\" Her last thought before being thrown into a world she never even knew existed, though maybe she should have, was of relief and fear. \"Relief and fear was all that functioned in my mind. Relief to know the pain will go away; fear to know that I'm dying.\" After awakening in a strange place with people she had never seen before, except for one- Lucas. He was the one who was there after the accident as she thought she was dying, \"My gave was cradled in Lucas's chest; he was embracing me on his arms. My eyesight slowly was taken away from me, leaving me in the dark. I can't breathe.\" She had feared for her \"life and yet, was relieved when it was over.\" The people who took her in were kind and casting, even though she didn't understand what was going on. One tried to explain, \"I know this is a lot for you to adjust to, but you must understand, we don't want to hurt you. We are here to help you, hoping you can do the same in return.\" Though she couldn't help but think, \"Nothing makes sense and I can't imagine where I will find the answers.\" Fearing the worst and thinking she was kidnapped she tries to make an escape only to find herself head on with more things she didn't understand. Thankfully the ones who took her on were there to protect her. And though she needed answers and they wanted to help her understand the only thing she could think was \"Right now I did't want to be told what had happened because I was too scared to hear the answer. My kidnappers had just saved me from some kind of creatures who desperately wanted to kill me.\" \"What is going on? I cried not only from the pain in my nose but from the feelings I had buried deep inside after all that had happened.\" \"Two days ago I would have called him a liar. But after what I saw today-and what I felt when that little girl attacked me, squeezing my throat-I couldn't help but believe him entirely.\" were Karla's thoughts after finally hearing what was going on. With the new knowledge she had attained all she just wanted \"to fall asleep and forget all of this, and wake up to find it all a terrible nightmare.\" But even sleep couldn't not save her she kept having strange dreams; in one of these stands her uncle came to her starting \"Dear Karla, see what happens when you show affection to your prey? You cough your own blood instead of seeing there's.\" After not being able to escape and not finding relaxation through sleep she finally decided \"This is what I must do, if only to say goodbye to the life I once knew.\" She would find a way to embrace this new life she was given and do what she had to do to keep living. \"Remembering Helena's suggestion, (she) slipped through the hall to the lounge-room in search of a book.\" This was a start to her new journey where she learned many remarkable things about herself and those around her. \"Maybe I am simply trying to avoid the evidence that I too might have the ability of a Shielder. Because of that is proven then I cannot deny the words they speak or the reality of this world I have been dragged into.\" After coming to this realization done training and practice was in order. \"To have created such a beautiful thing from my core...it gave me an unfamiliar sense of belonging.\" \"The invisible wall that comes between us, (she) mused.\" So happy with herself for doing so well so quickly. But as fate would have it before she could completely understand what was going on with her new found talents or how to use them properly things took another dark turn. \"Is this the woman inside of my head taking over? Is she igniting my feelings with her own?\" \"Am I a pawn of destruction? Or simply a misguided girl tortured in the night?\" These became the kind of questions dancing around in her head especially after having someone tell her, \"And I shall wait for your return; knowing it is your body, but not your soul, that you possess.\" Karla has the weight of the world on her shoulders and a fight to the death faced her. But she pushed forward with her strong will thinking \"I can do this; I can confront Paul and find me parents.\" \"And if anyone can help me it will be Lucas: my protector.\" So she took the next step and after finding Paul she discerned, \"I had missed Paul Stuart like crazy without even knowing it. How could I have forgotten his face? I had to touch it to make sure it was real.\" \"I then realized it wasn't just my dreams that I dreaded- it was simply walking down the street doing an everyday normal human thing.\" Now that she understood her feelings for Paul what did that mean for the way she was feeling about Lucas. As she burdened herself with these feelings she still knew she had to find her parents but that would prove itself to be difficult with the evil that lurked in her way. \"I he will truly want to save me after I tell him of this other life I am forced to live. Will Paul still want to protect me when it's not only the Starkorfs I need protection from but myself as well?\" \"My eyes searched his been eyes; he was just as lost as I was.\" The feelings were there in the grasps for Paul and Karla but the evil wasn't about to let things go so easily. \"When your true being is that filled with rage and hate, a chain can only hold the power back for so long. When that beast is let out nothing can stand in its way. Not even your soul.\" \"I closed my eyes, ashamed that these 'creatures' that he spoke of were now a part of who I was. I can no longer be scared nor cry. This I must do.\" \"I must protect those I love- and all other humans- from her kind. I have a gift that enables me to do so: I am a Shielder.\" She had to become strong not only for herself but everyone else as well, however she did find help \"Could he really be going through all these lengths for me? I thought in amazement.\" And the war ensued giving Karla an epiphany \"My childhood has been lost amongst this war, and with it I am entrusted with this curse.\" As the force of this hit her and the events that had taken place over the past few days became pieces of a puzzle to put together she was left with the words of someone who meant so much to her, \"One day we are destined to fight, and when that day happens I will do everything I can to not hurt you.\" ...more The first few chapters of this YA urban fantasy follow a girl telling us about her school and home life; quite an ordinary set of events, as Karla herself does not know that she is anything but ordinary. Her parents have debts, as many people do, so Karla helps by waitressing in the evenings. That's where she first meets a stranger who introduces himself as Lucas - to the annoyance of a young man called Paul from Karla's class. POSSESSION OF MY SOUL is what interests Lucas. On a rainy day out sh The first few chapters of this YA urban fantasy follow a girl telling us about her school and home life; quite an ordinary set of events, as Karla herself does not know that she is anything but ordinary. Her parents have debts, as many people do, so Karla helps by waitressing in the evenings. That's where she first meets a stranger who introduces himself as Lucas - to the annoyance of a young man called Paul from Karla's class. POSSESSION OF MY SOUL is what interests Lucas. On a rainy day out shopping with Paul, Karla begins to feel ill so Paul tries to drive her to hospital but crashes his car on the wet road. Karla slips into unconsciousness and wakes in the company of Lucas, who claims that she died and he saved her, bringing her to a new location. What can Karla believe? Her instinct tells her to escape. The forest outside this house turns out to be full of much deadlier dangers and Karla is saved by Lucas, who has followed her with friends. Like it or not, she has to trust him. Now Lucas explains that a few persons can project an invisible shield, to save themselves and others from attack. Some of these people turned away from good and became Starkovs. Karla has inherited this skill and must learn to use it well as foes beset her. She learns that battles with the Starkovs have been ongoing for centuries as they have become cannibals to extend their powers and lives. The good shielders try to stop them. However, Karla's parents had warned her against people who would try to use her. Is this what they meant? Karla has a lot to learn, such as control of her shield, but she throws out a few surprises too. She dreams of weapons known as Three Immortal Blades but doesn't know any more. Not everyone she meets trusts her - and with good reason. I enjoyed some scenes in particular, such as the demonstration of shielding by throwing water at Lucas, who easily keeps it away from himself and Karla. The characters are varied and interesting. There is a lot of violence and tension in this dark urban fantasy and at times it was more of a horror than I enjoy reading, though anyone who enjoys a horror tale should feel right at home. I would also have liked more location detail. Much of the action takes place among trees. What kind of trees? Are there conifers, broadleaves, woodland creatures? The author lives in Australia but eucalyptus trees are not mentioned, while the introduction of a wolf implies the northern hemisphere. Kia Carrington-Russell is a young author writing for young adults. In this her first book we can see a wide vocabulary with a keenness for action sequences, challenges and character development. As with many new authors I did notice that her use of English is not perfect but no doubt that will improve as she continues to read and write. Her strength is notably in the vivid imagery of her very real fast-paced action. Many teenagers feel themselves to have an identity vacuum as they mature, when their old way of life does not seem to fit them and they do not know what the future will bring or what talents they will develop. Ms Carrington-Russell has given voice to this challenge in POSSESSION OF MY SOUL: THREE IMMORTAL BLADES which should be enjoyed by kick-ass, strong heroine, dark fantasy YA readers everywhere. ...more Since Buffy The Vampire Slayer young women have begun to dominate the market, especially the written, but also some of these then get transferred to the visual, be it television or cinema. As I read, or watch, these stories unfold a pattern of their genesis emerges. That is, the female protagonists are unwilling, surprised that they get pushed into the limelight (which often entails extreme physical danger for themselves and anyone they know) and would give anything to NOT be the heroine and cra Since Buffy The Vampire Slayer young women have begun to dominate the market, especially the written, but also some of these then get transferred to the visual, be it television or cinema. As I read, or watch, these stories unfold a pattern of their genesis emerges. That is, the female protagonists are unwilling, surprised that they get pushed into the limelight (which often entails extreme physical danger for themselves and anyone they know) and would give anything to NOT be the heroine and crave returning to some sort of 'normality'. Most of them spend the early, formative years of their lives totally unaware that within their genes is something that will change their lives forever, however much they might fight it. This reluctance and 'fighting the inevitable' puts them into danger due to their own recklessness and inability to come to terms with what fate has in store. Karla is such a young woman. It doesn't help that those who do know what she is and has to do seem to be particularly inept when it comes to communication. Sitting her down and explaining what she is would solve a lot of hassle for all concerned \u2013 but that would take away some of the jeopardy. She slowly learns that within her she carries the genes of one of the siblings whose reason for existence is to be the saviour of the human race together with her siblings. However, in the past some of the humans had been less that gracious to these almost gods and instead of living in harmony descendents of the 'gods' turn against the human race, intent on living forever (by eating as many humans as possible) and destroying any aspect of the pro-human 'Shielders' as possible. In general I liked this book. However \u2026 There's always a but. Why do young writers persist on filling their pages (and hence wasting their own time in the writing process) with information that in no way moves the story forward? In a way I think I understand why these bits are put in, in an effort to 'humanise' the protagonist but, honestly, I see them only as a distraction and a waste of time. I'll just select a couple of examples. Why the obsession with hair and eyes? More so if the hair was long and Karla could lose herself in such eyes. This came up time and time again. The other obsession is with clothes, the description of or placing them in some sort of central position in the plot. This might be because the author is aiming for a readership which is contemporary to herself but I just couldn't see the sense of it. (I should add here I'm not the demographic towards whom this novel is directed.) There's one scene in particular (around page 130) where she goes into such detail about what everyone was wearing at a formal dinner but the meaning went way over my head. If I got it right some of the killers (although on which side they will turn out is still in some doubt) were obsessed with correct clothing and would consider it an insult (under normal conditions) if people arrived badly dressed. Now that might be a comment on dress in our present society (that's all I could think of to justify its inclusion) but was it really necessary? Apart from those small quibbles I quite enjoyed this novel. A Goodreads First Reads winner. ...more Karla had always believed that she was just an ordinary girl, she studied hard ant school and never paid much attention to boys, until Paul, the best looking boy in school, shows an interest in her. What started off as just a ride home from work soon turned into more. On the next day, they go out to get clothes for dinner in the evening, Paul unfortunately loses control of his car and crashes. Leaving Karla dead. Or so she thought. She soon reawakens in a stranger\u2019s home where Lucas is waiting fo Karla had always believed that she was just an ordinary girl, she studied hard ant school and never paid much attention to boys, until Paul, the best looking boy in school, shows an interest in her. What started off as just a ride home from work soon turned into more. On the next day, they go out to get clothes for dinner in the evening, Paul unfortunately loses control of his car and crashes. Leaving Karla dead. Or so she thought. She soon reawakens in a stranger\u2019s home where Lucas is waiting for her. He goes onto explain that she is actually a shielder (her role is to protect humans from Starkof\u2019s \u2013 shielder\u2019s gone bad). The Starkof\u2019s have been showing an unusual amount of interest in Karla which had caused Lucas to follow her and watch her until the crash. However nobody could have foretold the magnitude of the change in Karla for now she is fighting her body being possessed by a woman who was one of the original shielder\u2019s, intent on getting her immortal blades back through Karla. Will Karla be able to stop this woman from taking complete possession of her body and soul?? What happens when they find a traitor in their midst?? This is a brilliant book full of twists and turns right to the very end. I loved that at the start of the book you get Karla's background story and pieces of her life from home. I loved Karla, how that even though she thought she was an ordinary girl and was quickly thrust into a supernatural world, she is actually able to adapt quite quickly. You could tell though that she was afraid of her new ability and what would happen to her and if she would ever to be able to go back to living a normal lifestyle. I was seriously in awe of how she was able to battle to stop herself being possessed completely. Not sure how I felt about Lucas, I have lots of conflicted feelings about him. I mean on one hand you could tell he cared deeply for Karla but then at the same time there was something about him that I never quit trusted. I also loved Paul as although it was his car that crashed and caused Karla to 'die', he never left her really he was there helping her as soon as he could. I really enjoyed this book (I read it in one go) and would highly recommend it to others. ...more Possession of My Soul is the first book in the Three Immortal Blade Series by Kia Carrington-Russell. I have read several paranormal series with many different types of creatures/beings. This series is different from everyone that I have read. This is a complex story that drags you in from the very first page with a setting that is based on a high school student Karla Gray. She has gone through high school as an ordinary student that is average until she has an encounter with Lucas a mysterious Possession of My Soul is the first book in the Three Immortal Blade Series by Kia Carrington-Russell. I have read several paranormal series with many different types of creatures/beings. This series is different from everyone that I have read. This is a complex story that drags you in from the very first page with a setting that is based on a high school student Karla Gray. She has gone through high school as an ordinary student that is average until she has an encounter with Lucas a mysterious man she meets while she is at work. When Karla becomes suddenly dies and wakes up in a strange place with Lucas. She learns of her ability as a Shield as she meets the rest of the team that lives with Lucas. Meeting the team she learns of a whole world that lives in the shadows of her ordinary life where there are 2 sides Starkofs and Shields. As she is being mentored on her skills is it discovered Karla is not an average Shield and learns she has Misfeata one of 3 Elders within her that is waiting to continue the war started centuries earlier. Possession of My Soul has many twists, turns and tension between characters as they progress on their journey to acquire Aeisha on of the Three Immortal Blades. Karla fights to keep Misfeata from taking over and constantly fights to keep her identity. Lucas plays a pivotal role in this book as well since he is a Starkof living with Shields. He has been playing both sides by giving information to Raven and Nathaniel his brother. One of the Elders Tyran , who created Starkofs, lives within Lucas\u2019 father Praytar. Kia has been able to create an environment where the characters come alive. You are able to feel the characters inner turmoil\u2019s, betrayal, love, sadness, loss and insecurities. The ending to this books leaves you wanting more and eagerly await the next installment. I highly recommend this series. ...more Since there are plenty of reviews that discuss the storyline, I won't be going into details of the plot. Personally, I prefer to read books blind, rather than know what to expect thanks to details leaked on the back cover. This was a interesting story, one that is equally enjoyable for YA readers and older readers. I'd classify it as urban fantasy, leaning a bit towards the dark side of the genre This is first book in a series set in a world where the paranormal lies below the surface of normal h Since there are plenty of reviews that discuss the storyline, I won't be going into details of the plot. Personally, I prefer to read books blind, rather than know what to expect thanks to details leaked on the back cover. This was a interesting story, one that is equally enjoyable for YA readers and older readers. I'd classify it as urban fantasy, leaning a bit towards the dark side of the genre This is first book in a series set in a world where the paranormal lies below the surface of normal human life, hidden from view. Told from Karla's first person point of view, you are immediately immersed into this world and her story. This book is the introduction to a series, with a minor resolution at the end. It's written in a epic arch style leaving you wanting to pick up the next book in the series to find out what happens to Karla next. Note: I received a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Since I don't normally write reviews unless I have something specific to say, here's the break down of how I rate my books... 1 star... This book was bad, so bad I may have given up and skipped to the end. I will avoid this author like the plague in the future. 2 stars... This book was not very good, and I won't be reading any more from the author. 3 stars... This book was ok, but I won't go out of my way to read more, But if I find another book by the author for under a dollar I'd pick it up. 4 stars... I really enjoyed this book and will definitely be on the look out to pick up more from the series/author. 5 stars... I loved this book! It has earned a permanent home in my collection and I'll be picking up the rest of the series and other books from the author ASAP. ...more **Copy of book provided by the author in return for an honest review.** DISCLAIMER TO MY FELLOW GOODREADER This review is my personal opinion and may contain: spoilers, quotes, rants, cussing (sometimes I cannot help myself) and a possible full on recap. I in no way want to ruin anyone\u2019s book reading experience so please read my words with caution. 17 year old Karla Grey is an ordinary girl attending school. Her best friend Sarah is a little bit of an attention whore, but always means the best. Kar **Copy of book provided by the author in return for an honest review.** DISCLAIMER TO MY FELLOW GOODREADER This review is my personal opinion and may contain: spoilers, quotes, rants, cussing (sometimes I cannot help myself) and a possible full on recap. I in no way want to ruin anyone\u2019s book reading experience so please read my words with caution. 17 year old Karla Grey is an ordinary girl attending school. Her best friend Sarah is a little bit of an attention whore, but always means the best. Karla seems to have suddenly caught the eye of their school's most sought after boy, Greg. She is completely thrown off when he wants to hang out with her. Things like this never happen to her. One night at work, Karla meets an intense stranger (that seems to know her). This stranger is Lucas and after something terrible happens to her, he seemingly comes to the rescue. Karla is thrown into a world she never knew existed. Lucas tells her that the Starkorfs and Shielders have been battling for centuries. Now she's one of them (a Shielder) and will remain under their protection until she learns to control her new ability. Karla seems to be fighting an internal battle? Is she more powerful than any of them realize? Can she control it or will she end up hurting those trying to save her? Betrayal comes in many packages. Twists and turns. Very YA but interested in knowing what happens next. Cliffhanger \u2013 yes (book 1 of series) POV - Karla ...more Kia Carrington tells us about a girl called Karla who is still in school, also works part time in a caf\u00e9. She doesn't really have many friends. Her parents both work, she is their only child. Karla comes across as a very shy girl but nice. She starts to worry why a boy called Paul seems to take an interest in her, he has never really bothered with her before, she asks herself a million questions as to why Paul wants her to go out with her. Just as Karla is starting to live a little things take a Kia Carrington tells us about a girl called Karla who is still in school, also works part time in a caf\u00e9. She doesn't really have many friends. Her parents both work, she is their only child. Karla comes across as a very shy girl but nice. She starts to worry why a boy called Paul seems to take an interest in her, he has never really bothered with her before, she asks herself a million questions as to why Paul wants her to go out with her. Just as Karla is starting to live a little things take a sudden twist in her life. Her world is not as she once had known it. Learning about Shielders and Starkoffs. It all becomes to much, what is going on? She doesn't understand the How, the Why, the When. Everyone around her seems to have too many secrets. Who should she believe? A guy called Lucas seems to be her friend but she is not sure who to trust. One thing is for certain life for Karla will never be the same again. I did enjoy this read, it is very different from anything I have read before. If you enjoy paranormal reads then this book is for you. ...more Prologue = INTENSE! A couple of typos here and there like words being left out that caused me to have to reread a sentence here and there again. It did not take away from the reading of the book however. This book makes you think of vampires and vampire hunters or angels and demons, but both are far from the case. It has a feel of one of those paranormal type books; however, it is refreshing in regards to the actual types of beings that are caught in the battle of Good Vs. Evil that we find in a Prologue = INTENSE! A couple of typos here and there like words being left out that caused me to have to reread a sentence here and there again. It did not take away from the reading of the book however. This book makes you think of vampires and vampire hunters or angels and demons, but both are far from the case. It has a feel of one of those paranormal type books; however, it is refreshing in regards to the actual types of beings that are caught in the battle of Good Vs. Evil that we find in all sorts of literature. I am looking forward to reading the second book, to see what happens to Karla and Paul, Tyran and Misfeata, and what ultimately happens with Lucas? I look forward to seeing what happens with the rest of the series. I cannot get my hands on them fast enough. This book truly has me reflectively thinking about it, my brain calm and relaxed at what I have thoroughly enjoyed reading. This book was a gift to me from Kia Carrington-Russell, so that I would be able to write a review. ...more This was a very active book to read with so many plot twists that sometimes you forget who is friend or foe or both and most times your just not sure either way. Karla starts off as a normal girl until she meets Lucas and then everything just tail spins from there. She struggles to learn to accept her new abilities and slowly learns that there is actually an ancient being trying to take her over. Instead of giving in, she fights to keep her soul even though it means near death for her on several This was a very active book to read with so many plot twists that sometimes you forget who is friend or foe or both and most times your just not sure either way. Karla starts off as a normal girl until she meets Lucas and then everything just tail spins from there. She struggles to learn to accept her new abilities and slowly learns that there is actually an ancient being trying to take her over. Instead of giving in, she fights to keep her soul even though it means near death for her on several occasions. This book does take you for a ride from one wild event to another as she learns the world is not what she thought it was. I spent most of the book frustrated at Karla and just wanted to smack her sometimes to get her priorities straight and actually wake up and learn something like.. how to fight so she could save her own life without everyone having to come rescue her. But she learns. ever so slowly she learns... ...more Meet Karla, shy and sweet , she's got few friends, and fewer prospects of a date to the dance. Enter Paul, studly jock that all the girls drool over, he wants Karla in a big way. This book starts out as a classic high school romance, where the nerdy girl gets the hot guy. Then the weird stuff starts happening. Karla nearly dies (or does, mostly) and wakes up the prisoner of Lucas ( with whom she's had a few strange run ins lately). She doesn't know where her parents are, and is told she must tra Meet Karla, shy and sweet , she's got few friends, and fewer prospects of a date to the dance. Enter Paul, studly jock that all the girls drool over, he wants Karla in a big way. This book starts out as a classic high school romance, where the nerdy girl gets the hot guy. Then the weird stuff starts happening. Karla nearly dies (or does, mostly) and wakes up the prisoner of Lucas ( with whom she's had a few strange run ins lately). She doesn't know where her parents are, and is told she must train to use her 'magical' abilities in order for her to be allowed to leave. The above all happens right at the beginning of the story, so it's not really a spoiler. I can tell you that there are vampire-like creatures, magical powers, and possession , all in this one story , which is book one in a series. The ending leaves you wanting to read the next one, but not with the burning intensity of a cliffhanger. This was a great book! ...more I received this book in exchange for an honest review. It is extremely rare that I give a book 5 stars so for a book to receive 4 stars means I really enjoyed it. I struggled a little bit to get into it, mainly I think due to my timing (just before Christmas) but once I did get hooked, it was only the festivities that kept me from reading it all in one night! This is an interesting fantasy work, mixing the everyday very recognizable ordinary girl who has to deal with bullys, the class queen and I received this book in exchange for an honest review. It is extremely rare that I give a book 5 stars so for a book to receive 4 stars means I really enjoyed it. I struggled a little bit to get into it, mainly I think due to my timing (just before Christmas) but once I did get hooked, it was only the festivities that kept me from reading it all in one night! This is an interesting fantasy work, mixing the everyday very recognizable ordinary girl who has to deal with bullys, the class queen and sporty star, parents with their own schedules and priorities. Then suddenly she is the weak link in a mysterious world where people have magical abilities, horrifying enemies and friends who might not always be friends. This young ordinary girl discovers herself to be not that ordinary and has to find her inner strength to determine the future for herself and others. Looking forward to book 2!! ...more Love this completely different concept of paranormal. I don't think I have read anything like this before and am intrigued by the storyline. This book is definitely a great start to a great series. Karla is a unique female heroin who handles everything that is thrown her way quite well, which is no small feat. She seems like a fairly well developed character and overall well rounded. Her friend Paul is also a very cool character complementing the story. Lucas and the shielders add nicely to the m Love this completely different concept of paranormal. I don't think I have read anything like this before and am intrigued by the storyline. This book is definitely a great start to a great series. Karla is a unique female heroin who handles everything that is thrown her way quite well, which is no small feat. She seems like a fairly well developed character and overall well rounded. Her friend Paul is also a very cool character complementing the story. Lucas and the shielders add nicely to the mix of the characters. Of course the adversaries are a perfect addition to it all. Kia has really started off this series well. She has a fantastic writing style that is extremely enjoyable to read. She is off to an amazing start with this new series and I look forward what she will do next. I have received this book from the author for an honest review. (LoP, Lovers of Paranormal) ...more I'm not a huge fantasy fan but this one held my interest throughout the book and I'm looking forward to Book 2 in the trilogy. Karla is an ordinary high school teen with a small crush on Paul who finally asks her out. After a car accident she is rescued by Lucas who reveals that she is a Shielder, a fighter of evil. As she rights to regain a powerful sword she is being possessed by Misfiada, an ancient Shielder who wants revenge. Some of the characters have complicated relationships and it's diff I'm not a huge fantasy fan but this one held my interest throughout the book and I'm looking forward to Book 2 in the trilogy. Karla is an ordinary high school teen with a small crush on Paul who finally asks her out. After a car accident she is rescued by Lucas who reveals that she is a Shielder, a fighter of evil. As she rights to regain a powerful sword she is being possessed by Misfiada, an ancient Shielder who wants revenge. Some of the characters have complicated relationships and it's difficult to tell who is good and who is evil but they are all interesting and important to the story. In the next book, Possession of my Heart, it looks like Karla is going to be back home with Paul, searching for her parents. ...more I have feel in love with this book!!!! Karla is such a strong willed person. She grabs your attention from the start and this author makes you feel the emotion of the characters. Karla is a normal girl or so she thinks. Till one day she is on her first date with Paul at the mall and some guy knocks into her. Her body goes crazy! When she wakes up she finds her self in a strange place with these creatures after her. With the help of new friends she learns she is a shielder and she is the last of I have feel in love with this book!!!! Karla is such a strong willed person. She grabs your attention from the start and this author makes you feel the emotion of the characters. Karla is a normal girl or so she thinks. Till one day she is on her first date with Paul at the mall and some guy knocks into her. Her body goes crazy! When she wakes up she finds her self in a strange place with these creatures after her. With the help of new friends she learns she is a shielder and she is the last of the bloodline for one elder. Will she be able to handle the life that fate has brought on her. Or will she loose all hope when she is betrayed by the one she never thought would? I am so excited to read the next book in this series. I give this a 5 fang review. Reviewer for PRATR. . ...more<---C>Kia Carrington-Russell</---C>", "Title": "Possession of My Soul"},
