{"Comments": "I don\u2019t disguise that I\u2019m a big geek, especially when science fiction is concerned. My Star Wars and Lord of the Rings (<---B>and Spiderman and X-Men and Batman and . . .</---B>) movie obsessions attest to my geekiness. So it is no surprise to anyone that I spent two or three years as a teenager reading only fantasy fiction. I literally read every fantasy fiction book our local library had on its shelves. It happens to be why the Harry Potter series drives me to the brink of rage: people think those awful ex I don\u2019t disguise that I\u2019m a big geek, especially when science fiction is concerned. My Star Wars and Lord of the Rings (and Spiderman and X-Men and Batman and . . .<---F>) movie obsessions attest to my geekiness</---F>. So it is no surprise to anyone that I spent two or three years as a teenager reading only fantasy fiction. I literally read every fantasy fiction book our local library had on its shelves. It happens to be why the Harry Potter series drives me to the brink of rage: people think those awful excuses for fantasy fiction stand up to the classics of Tolkien,<---M> Le Guin</---M>, Eddings, Donaldson, and all the others I spent countless hours devouring. It has been years since a book made me feel like a child again. <+++>The Stolen Child</+++> is such a book \u2013 and not because its fantasy setting brought back feelings of nostalgia, but because for the first time in I don\u2019t know how long, I had a book in my hand I didn\u2019t want to put down, and whose plot drew me in so completely, finishing the book was both the first and last thing I wanted to do. The book\u2019s basic storyline is based on the mythology of the changeling, a breed of fairies that steal children and replace them with a changeling that looks exactly like the child and that grows up in its place. The stolen child (hence the title) becomes a changeling himself, and waits his time to return to the real world in the form of another child. This unique premise sets up a narrative that swaps back-and-forth between a changeling (Henry Day), and the stolen child whose identity he stole and who now must grow up as a changeling (Aniday). The switching narratives allow the author to present different perspectives on the same event as Henry\u2019s and Aniday\u2019s lives crisscross each other in ways that will surprise you. The simple prose is beautiful and spare in ways that break your heart, and that keeps you reading until you finish it a day later. There is an underlying melancholy throughout the book as you feel the struggle that Henry the changeling has in living a life not his own, and that Aniday has in living a new life while struggling to remember the one he lost. There are many themes at play here \u2013 the fleeting nature of memory, nature vs nurture, growing up and leaving childhood, the truth of identity \u2013 and the author\u2019s prose and story drive the themes into your subconscious without taking any time to expound on them, leaving the story to linger with you days after you complete it. In fact, I read this book twice in three days, and still keep thumbing through it to reread my favorites scenes. Do not let the fantasy plot prevent you from picking this one up. Other than the changeling mythology, the rest of the book is completely rooted in reality; the fantasy plot is no less approachable a storyline than the mystical powers of the characters in Rushdie\u2019s Midnight\u2019s Children. This book is one of my favorites of the last few years \u2013 an elegant and touching fairy tale for adults. I think it\u2019s simply lovely. ...more <+++>The Stolen Child</+++> is a wonderful first novel told from the perspective of Henry Day, who was kidnapped by changelings as a child, and from the changeling who kidnapped Henry. The ancient changeling legend is woven into this very modern story and as the book progresses, the lives of Henry Day and the changeling who assumed his life gradually become intertwined. More than a fairy tale, this is a story about loss, loneliness, love, and finally acceptance. Highly recommended. Feeling ignored and tired of his infant twin sisters getting all of the attention, young Henry Day decided to run away one day in the 1940's. Henry never returned home; in fact, he ceased to exist, but no one noticed. Why? Henry was abducted by the hobgoblins who lived in the nearby forest and a changeling was left in his place--a changeling who had been studying everything about Henry and knew how to mimic him so perfectly that no one could tell the difference. The Stolen Child follows the boy Feeling ignored and tired of his infant twin sisters getting all of the attention, young Henry Day decided to run away one day in the 1940's. Henry never returned home; in fact, he ceased to exist, but no one noticed. Why? Henry was abducted by the hobgoblins who lived in the nearby forest and a changeling was left in his place--a changeling who had been studying everything about Henry and knew how to mimic him so perfectly that no one could tell the difference. The Stolen Child follows the boy and the changeling for the next 30 to 40 years and tells their story in alternating first person narratives that, in the beginning, are a little confusing, but rightly so as both children are confused about their identities as they each adapt to their new world. Their lives run parallel to one another and occasionally intersect to disastrous results. A friend of mine described this book as \"melancholy,\" and I think that's the perfect adjective to sum up my feelings after reading this book. For one, the changelings are not villains. They are all children who had their lives stolen from them and are now biding their time until they can reclaim what was forcefully and brutally taken from them. As a result, I feel sorry for both Aniday (the name given to Henry after he becomes one of the changelings) and Gustav (the changeling who takes Henry's place). Often in a fantasy, you get the joy of hating the evil-doer or the monster lurking in the dark, but here the evil is something nebulous and never clearly defined. I think this is partially due to the allegorical nature of the plot. In a sense, life is the monster in that it's a force of nature that can't be stopped or reasoned with. For each of us, our childhood must eventually end and, as children, we often can't wait to grow up and find out who and what we'll be. To do so, we have to cut ourselves away from the child we were so that we can embrace the adult we'll become. We leave a \"changeling\"--a collection of memories, childish desires, and emotions that revisit us throughout our lives, but the child version of ourselves is like a stranger we once knew. Also, as we get older, many of us look back on the innocence of childhood with a sense of nostalgia and think, if only upon occasion, \"if only I could go back\" or \"wouldn't it be great to be a child forever?\" The answer provided by Donohue is no; that the romantic view of childhood is just that--the tinge of rose-colored glasses. The changelings are not The Wild Boys; sure they are given to fun, frivolity, and mischief, but theirs is not a life to be envied. It is a constant struggle for survival against the harsh elements and the encroachment of man as civilization and suburbia threaten the wilderness where they are able to secret themselves away. They long to grow up and are trapped in tiny bodies while their emotional and mental maturity continues, unimpeded. They wait and they yearn and they think about all they will never have and all they will never be. In presenting the changeling myth for modern times, Donohue has given us a haunting and beautiful examination of childhood and the search for identity. And he has done so in humanity\u2019s most enduring medium: that of myth. Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder and at Shelf Inflicted ...more I am a big fan of literature that retell or reconfigure old myths and fairy tales especially if the author can bring it into a modern setting and so I really liked the concept of The Stolen Child, a modern adaptation of the changling myth in which the fairies steal away a human child and replace it with one of their own. With all this to its credit, I should have enjoyed this book more than I did. The Stolen Child is based on the poem by Yeats where the fairies lure a human child away from the ca I am a big fan of literature that retell or reconfigure old myths and fairy tales especially if the author can bring it into a modern setting and so I really liked the concept of The Stolen Child, a modern adaptation of the changling myth in which the fairies steal away a human child and replace it with one of their own. With all this to its credit, I should have enjoyed this book more than I did. The Stolen Child is based on the poem by Yeats where the fairies lure a human child away from the care-filled world of the humans to live in the idyllic world of the fairies. But in the book, there is no lure. It is simple abduction and the life of the hobgoblin tribe is feral, hard and misreable, which each member trying desperatly to get back to the human world. But their efforts to do so are constrained by arbitrary rules that are never explained or put into context. These rules start out being followed and enforced as if they were of life and death importance but later get abandoned or ignored with little fanfare or consequences. The tone of the book was more like an alien abduction story than something ancient and fairy tale-ish. It may be a matter of taste but I think that if you are going to draw on Old World mythology, there should be some Old World flavor and foundations to your story. The mirrored quests by both the changling and the abducted boy to recall and reconcile their identities had its interesting points but overall, I would have preferred a little more attention to the mythology of the world and a little less angst. The mirrored quests by both the changling and the abducted boy to recall and reconcile their identities had its interesting points but overall, I would have preferred a little more attention to the mythology of the world and a little less angst. ...more The Stolen Child, which takes its name and inspiration from the Yeats poem, tells the story of two characters: Aniday is a human child who is stolen by changelings and lives in their world, and Henry Day is the changeling who takes his place and grows up in the real world. Both spend the next few decades struggling with their identities, as neither is at peace with the change. The format is interesting; every other chapter flips between the two narrators. Both speak in the first person, but it is The Stolen Child, which takes its name and inspiration from the Yeats poem, tells the story of two characters: Aniday is a human child who is stolen by changelings and lives in their world, and Henry Day is the changeling who takes his place and grows up in the real world. Both spend the next few decades struggling with their identities, as neither is at peace with the change. The format is interesting; every other chapter flips between the two narrators. Both speak in the first person, but it is easy to grasp whose story is being told at the moment. In case there is any confusion, Aniday's side always has a small graphic of a forest at the beginning of the chapter. Although I finished reading this about a month ago, it took me a long time to decide how I felt about it. Amazon.com promoted the hell out of it (supposedly on its merits, rather than monetary incentives from the publisher) and professional reviews were hailing it as one of the best books of the year, but it left me a little cold. This is probably because most of the characters spend the majority of the story being so unhappy and conflicted. The resolution helps them find some peace, but it's definitely not the Feel-Good Story of the Year. As I was browsing through Amazon.com reviews after finishing it, I noticed that one of the bigger complaints was that it doesn't explain more about how the changelings turned into humans, why they exist, where the first changelings came from, etc. I thought the level of explanation in the book was satisfactory, since it's essentially a fairy tale. No one ever demands to know how a kiss woke Sleeping Beauty up. One thing I did think needed more explanation was Aniday's obsession with who had taken his place in the real world. None of the other changelings seemed to have similar issues, and they all encouraged him to forget his past. They had other issues, such as longing to re-enter the real world, but no hang-ups about their histories. Nothing seems to explain why Aniday kept obsessing while the others were able to forget. The Stolen Child is very well-written and approaches the changeling tale from an interesting angle, but it never made me care for the characters too much. I will definitely look into <---A>Keith Donohue</---A>'s next novel, if he writes one; I think he would do well with a story that's a little less depressing. ...more This is a strange, sad and beautiful novel inspired by W.B. Yeats poem \"The Stolen Child\" (1889) about chageling faeries. I vaguely remember reading about the Irish myths when I was younger. Interestingly, the novel touches on rational explanations for changelings: \"failure to thrive,\" physical deformities, or mental illness in children. But Donohue's novel is about loneliness, the search for identity and belonging. There are two narrators telling two intertwined stories - one adult trying to re This is a strange, sad and beautiful novel inspired by W.B. Yeats poem \"The Stolen Child\" (1889) about chageling faeries. I vaguely remember reading about the Irish myths when I was younger. Interestingly, the novel touches on rational explanations for changelings: \"failure to thrive,\" physical deformities, or mental illness in children. But Donohue's novel is about loneliness, the search for identity and belonging. There are two narrators telling two intertwined stories - one adult trying to remember his \"stolen\" childhood and one child trapped in time at age seven - interlocking like a Celtic knot. Both fantasy and emotion are understated - yet powerfully delivered. Charming, rare and engrossing ...more Remember that film Prelude to a Kiss ? Meg Ryan gets kissed by an old man, and they swap bodies. She's stuck in his decrepit aging body and he's in her young lithe one. This book is Meg Ryan after the switcheroo. The book looks like a pretty, fluffy urban fantasy: It is after all a story of a fairy changeling who switches places with a young boy. The changeling becomes Henry Day and grows up in his place; the young boy loses his name and becomes Aniday. But that's only its Meg Ryan surface. Insid Remember that film Prelude to a Kiss ? Meg Ryan gets kissed by an old man, and they swap bodies. She's stuck in his decrepit aging body and he's in her young lithe one. This book is Meg Ryan after the switcheroo. The book looks like a pretty, fluffy urban fantasy: It is after all a story of a fairy changeling who switches places with a young boy. The changeling becomes Henry Day and grows up in his place; the young boy loses his name and becomes Aniday. But that's only its Meg Ryan surface. Inside, it's a grumpy old man contemporary fiction book called The Stolen Childhood . The thing is, once the switcheroo takes place, magic plays little or no part at all. Other than the fact of Aniday being a changeling, he and his band of Lost Boys Children could well be any bunch of grubby kids growing up wild in the forest or on the streets. As for the changeling that took his place, once an ordinary boy, he loses his changeling powers and grows to become an ordinary man. In this, it shares another similarity with Prelude to a Kiss : the magic that allows the changelings to change form and never age, the whole idea of changelings itself, is never explored: it's just the vehicle that Donohue uses to explore the very human question of having to come to terms with your past to create a future. Unfortunately, he drops this clanking clue of his intent right in the middle of the story when he has a professor of myths tell us how the myth of the changeling was actually a way for medieval parents to get rid of a child too weak, deformed or puny by demonizing it as not their own but an \"other\". So, what we get is a tale about how each copes with having lost his original childhood, and how each tries to recover the past. Aniday's tale could well be the tale of a child that runs away from home and survives on his own; Henry Day bis 's is as much the story of a man struggling to deal with childhood issues of abandonment and abuse. For what it is, it is enjoyable enough and the intertwined stories of the two are movingly explored. Would I recommend it? Yes, but if you're expecting Meg Ryan, you're gonna be plenty shocked when grumpy old man shows up instead. ...more It's probably not really the book's fault -- the writing wasn't bad, even if it didn't do a good job of grabbing me -- but I just couldn't get into this one. I kept it on my shelf at work for months, but always found something else to read instead. Now that I'm really into the book I'm currently reading on my lunch breaks and have another queued up, I figured it was time to throw in the towel on this one. I feel a little guilty about it, and am not sure I gave it a really fair chance. If anyone e It's probably not really the book's fault -- the writing wasn't bad, even if it didn't do a good job of grabbing me -- but I just couldn't get into this one. I kept it on my shelf at work for months, but always found something else to read instead. Now that I'm really into the book I'm currently reading on my lunch breaks and have another queued up, I figured it was time to throw in the towel on this one. I feel a little guilty about it, and am not sure I gave it a really fair chance. If anyone else read it and really liked it, give me a prod to go back and try it again. ...more I really liked the premise; fairies steal forlorn, lonely children and replace them with themselves. The stolen children don't die, they become fairies who then have to wait hundreds of years to repeat the process. Every other chapter is told by the stolen child and then his replacement over many years of their lives. All-in-all I enjoyed this but it was a bit of a slow mover, took me a couple of weeks to finish. This is the author's debut so I would be willing to read more of his work as he hon I really liked the premise; fairies steal forlorn, lonely children and replace them with themselves. The stolen children don't die, they become fairies who then have to wait hundreds of years to repeat the process. Every other chapter is told by the stolen child and then his replacement over many years of their lives. All-in-all I enjoyed this but it was a bit of a slow mover, took me a couple of weeks to finish. This is the author's debut so I would be willing to read more of his work as he hones his skill. ...more I really enjoy books that are \"different\" and tell the story well. The Stolen Child by Keith Donohue is one of those books. It's the changeling story, a tale that is not new or different at all. Henry Day, a 7 year old boy, runs away from home one day and goes into the woods. He falls asleep and awakens to find himself being kidnapped by a troup of faeries that call him \"Aniday\". Meanwhile, another child--one who used to be a faery and has now molded his features to match Henry's exactly--goes \" I really enjoy books that are \"different\" and tell the story well. The Stolen Child by Keith Donohue is one of those books. It's the changeling story, a tale that is not new or different at all. Henry Day, a 7 year old boy, runs away from home one day and goes into the woods. He falls asleep and awakens to find himself being kidnapped by a troup of faeries that call him \"Aniday\". Meanwhile, another child--one who used to be a faery and has now molded his features to match Henry's exactly--goes \"home\" to take Henry's place. Here is what I meant by the book being \"different\": The new Henry and Aniday narrate the story in alternating chapters. Henry is angry, resentful and fearful of his old troup, calling them \"hobgoblin\" and \"monsters\". He is trying to learn how to be the boy who once lived in the house but there are differences that threaten to give him away and raise suspicions amongst family members. He is plagued with flashes of memory to the time he himself was taken by the faeries. Through Aniday, we learn that there is a structure and a method to the madness of these faeries. There's a hierarchy about who leads and who gets to be the changeling next. They don't just choose any child. The child they decide upon has to be observed for a year and there are rituals to follow. At first Aniday misses his family but as he realizes he can never go back he becomes resigned and learns the ways of his troup. He makes good friends with one of them, Speck, and begins a rudimentary written account of his life with the faeries. Like the new Henry, he has flashes of memory and sometimes resentment against he who took his place. The years go by. The new Henry grows up and the world changes. The environment is not especially friendly toward the faery troup anymore and they meet with several tragedies. Henry traces the memories of his first life back to Europe and actually finds his identity. Inevitably, Henry and Aniday meet again. Henry now has a 7 year old son. He is tormented by his past life, his life in the woods and what he's done to Aniday. Does that make the son vulnerable to being kidnapped by what's left of the troup? Does Aniday have vengeance on his mind? Read to find out! I was hooked right from the first page! ...more What a FABULOUS book - great narrative, beautifully written, utterly captivating, a highly intelligent novel. After reading that abysmal Ken Follett book (Pillars of the Earth), I really felt like I needed something to cleanse me of that dross. Since every review I read about this book pointed towards the positive, I gave it a shot. And what a surprise - I was so completely drawn to it that I finished it in 2 days. I couldn't put it down. In fact, I didn't want it to end. I kept going back to ce What a FABULOUS book - great narrative, beautifully written, utterly captivating, a highly intelligent novel. After reading that abysmal Ken Follett book (Pillars of the Earth), I really felt like I needed something to cleanse me of that dross. Since every review I read about this book pointed towards the positive, I gave it a shot. And what a surprise - I was so completely drawn to it that I finished it in 2 days. I couldn't put it down. In fact, I didn't want it to end. I kept going back to certain passages in the text, trying to prolong the story, all the while reinforcing my understanding of these characters and their experiences. Donoghue is one of those gifted writers - for his first effort as a novelist, this work was just absolutely wondrous. He wrote simply but effectively; he didn't have to resort to outlandish drama or hyperbole. No elaborate plot twists, no florid writing. Just simple storytelling, honest, sometimes raw, drawing on emotions both primitive and complex. He didn't have a need to spell everything out or to tie everything neatly into one square package (he may actually be one of those writers who truly believes that not every particular in a story has to be explained - that mysteries serve a purpose, and that some mysteries are better left undiscovered). Most importantly, he made no assumptions of the reader (I really hate it when writers dumb things down to appeal to all readers, or are so disdainful of \"regular\" readers that they ostracize them with their condescending tones and know-it-all attitudes) - he just wrote. It was highly literary - no more so than when two of the changelings discover the library and the wonders within - but it was also accessible. There was enough explanatory material that you didn't feel like you were hobbled by what you didn't know. The corollary to that is also true: that if you did know a good amount about any of the topics in the story, that there was still something you could learn. The entire narrative was a study in dichotomies: the weaving of the two stories, the two different points of views, mortal vs. immortal, young vs. old, wild vs. civilized. The narrative was the epitome of the yin-yang. After all, these two stolen children made up one person, one complementing the other, each one incomplete until their stories and lives commingled at the end. By that point, each one was ready to move on, having accepted their natures and the roles they played in each other's lives. ...more When I told friends that I was reading a fantastic novel about hobgoblins who steal children and replace the kidnapped kids with members of their own tribe, I got what you might expect -- that's creepy. Or, really? But it's true. This book, which I had snagged based on good reviews and only picked up recently, is a marvel. Set in the Pittsburgh area, it tells the story of Henry Day, a grade school boy who is none too sure he likes having younger twin sisters on the day he decides to \"run away.\" U When I told friends that I was reading a fantastic novel about hobgoblins who steal children and replace the kidnapped kids with members of their own tribe, I got what you might expect -- that's creepy. Or, really? But it's true. This book, which I had snagged based on good reviews and only picked up recently, is a marvel. Set in the Pittsburgh area, it tells the story of Henry Day, a grade school boy who is none too sure he likes having younger twin sisters on the day he decides to \"run away.\" Unbeknownst to him, a band of changelings who live in the forest around his small outlying town have been keeping track of him. It is their tradition to allow the oldest in their band, who may have spent a century as a fairy, to reshape himself or herself into the likeness of a human child and then replace that child. That is what happens to Henry, who becomes part of the changeling band, and to the oldest changeling, who enters Henry's family, which accepts him as their own, despite certain noticeable strangenesses, including his sudden precocious musical ability. There is a reason for that ability, having to do with the new Henry's former life as a human child. The book alternates between chapters of the old Henry and the new one, and each culture and narrative are so utterly believable that I no longer thought of this as a bizarre fantasy, but a real possibility. More than that, the novel explores deeply what it means to be human, and what it means to love and have relationships. The changelings may live almost as wild animals, never age, and steal from the humans, but their desire for intimacy and a future of hope is no less intense than among the humans. And to add tension to the book, the new Henry eventually marries and has a child of his own -- and the changelings know about it. This is a flat out marvelous first novel, so unusual and yet so pitch-perfect. ...more Here as a ring. Very strange book... not quite sure why I didn't really enjoy it as much as I thought I would. While I was reading it I was intrigued by the fairy tale for adults aspect, but that isn't what would bother me - if anything I felt it didn't go far enough. The switching between the two characters chapter after chapter was effective, but perhaps due to the amnesia they suffered from, everything seemed to stay very superficial and hazy. Even the dramatic events and discoveries (the abdu Here as a ring. Very strange book... not quite sure why I didn't really enjoy it as much as I thought I would. While I was reading it I was intrigued by the fairy tale for adults aspect, but that isn't what would bother me - if anything I felt it didn't go far enough. The switching between the two characters chapter after chapter was effective, but perhaps due to the amnesia they suffered from, everything seemed to stay very superficial and hazy. Even the dramatic events and discoveries (the abduction, the encounter with Brian, learning about the idiot child, just to name a few) seem remote, as though observed through the wrong end of a set of binoculars. All that is not said between the characters (Aniday and Speck, Harry and Tess) ends up having a very numbing effect, so that by the end the reader (or at least I) felt wrapped in cobweb, ready to be submerged as Harry Day was in the beginning. ...more An alternate coming-of-age novel, The Stolen Child is a fairy tale for adults. Henry Day runs away at a young age and finds himself abducted by hobgoblins in the woods near his home. In his place returns a changeling, one of the hobgoblins who has waited his turn for centuries in order to live as a real child, to grow up. Henry Day, in the meantime, is brought into the hobgoblins' world and becomes one of them. The stories of the real Henry-Day-turned-hobgoblin (renamed Aniday) and hobgoblin-tur An alternate coming-of-age novel, The Stolen Child is a fairy tale for adults. Henry Day runs away at a young age and finds himself abducted by hobgoblins in the woods near his home. In his place returns a changeling, one of the hobgoblins who has waited his turn for centuries in order to live as a real child, to grow up. Henry Day, in the meantime, is brought into the hobgoblins' world and becomes one of them. The stories of the real Henry-Day-turned-hobgoblin (renamed Aniday) and hobgoblin-turned-Henry-Day are intertwined as the two search for their true identities in their new lives. As time passes and each discover friendship and love, they grow closer to finding out their true natures and risk destroying what each of them have come to know as reality. Possibly one of the best books I have read recently. For a debut novel I am highly impressed. It seems Donohue had this story rattling around upstairs for quite some time and spent considerablt time working the fine details. His characters are well-rounded and easily accessible. By nature it is hard to imagine a group of hobgoblins as being interesting or sympathetic characters, but Donohue manages this beautifully. Aniday is unable to lose the empathy of a human child, and his friendship with little Speck is truly adorable. Mirrored in the humans, the grown-up Henry Day falls in love with Tess and their relationship is equally endearing. As their relationship grows and they bring a child of their own into the world, Henry Day is overcome with memories of his background, prior to becoming a hobgoblin himself, and his life is consumed with fear of his former friends coming after his new-born son. The story brings to light the passage of time, how perspectives change from childhood to adulthood, how mystery and magic can still live around every corner if one just keeps one's eyes fixed, and (on a personal level) how awesome it would be to hide beneath a library and read all of the books unbeknownst to the regular patrons. Of note: The author lived his early years in Pittsburgh before moving to Maryland - there are local references throughout the book, and even a jaunt to what was still considered Czechoslovakia. All in all a completely perfect read for me. ...more Keith Donohue\u2019s debut novel The Stolen Child has generated a lot of praise and interest in the publishing community. After hearing the near unanimous praise for the novel, I was intrigued enough to pick it up and give it a try myself. And was pleasantly surprised by the story. The Stolen Child is a fairy tale for adults about two boys, both kidnapped by hobgoblins. The hobgoblins will target and kidnap a child, taking him or her into their community (think the Lost Boys from Peter Pan) who live in Keith Donohue\u2019s debut novel The Stolen Child has generated a lot of praise and interest in the publishing community. After hearing the near unanimous praise for the novel, I was intrigued enough to pick it up and give it a try myself. And was pleasantly surprised by the story. The Stolen Child is a fairy tale for adults about two boys, both kidnapped by hobgoblins. The hobgoblins will target and kidnap a child, taking him or her into their community (think the Lost Boys from Peter Pan) who live in the woods, never again but awaiting their chance to be re-introduced to our world. When Henry Day is taken, another hobgoblin morphs himself to look like Henry and takes his place. The story then unfolds from the first-person perspective of both Henry Days as they struggle to find their way back into their respective societies and families. As their stories unfold, the lives of the two Henry Days slowly begin to intersect. One of the fascinating things about the novel is the back and forth structure of the narrative. Each chapter is told by one of the two Henry Days, relating the events of his life to that point. Even without the visual clue of the hobgoblin taken Henry\u2019s chapters having an image of the forest before each chapter begins, Donahue distinguishes each character by his voice. The novel is a good one, along the lines of the Time Traveller\u2019s Wife where a sci-fi or fantasy element is used more as a spring-board for the greater human-element to the story than actually exploring the fantasy implications. Donahue\u2019s story is one that will hit home and tug on the heart strings at times, all while having you on the edge of your seat at others. It\u2019s an entertaining, worthwhile, complex and fascinating fantasy story that I highly recommend. ...more **SPOILER FREE REVIEW** What an unexpected read. I can't even remember what i was expecting when i was first intrigued by it on amazon's urging that i would love it based on another book i bought a while ago. But what i found inside its pages was not that. And at first i was disappointed because i just could not get into it, breaking into the first 50 pages was a back and forth struggle between excitement and boredom, but now that i have finished it and go back to look through it again i cannot f **SPOILER FREE REVIEW** What an unexpected read. I can't even remember what i was expecting when i was first intrigued by it on amazon's urging that i would love it based on another book i bought a while ago. But what i found inside its pages was not that. And at first i was disappointed because i just could not get into it, breaking into the first 50 pages was a back and forth struggle between excitement and boredom, but now that i have finished it and go back to look through it again i cannot fathom why. The juxtaposition of Aniday's story against \"Henry Day's\" was most compelling of all about this book. Especially since Keith Donohue did not parallel their time or experiences. Two days could have gone by for Aniday while we could be three years into Henry Day's story in the next chapter. Yet there would still exist that thread of connection between the two characters, that goes far beyond being the same person in two very different lives. It was expertly done without confusing the reader. I love the story as well, at first i hated the impostor Henry, but in time understanding and even sympathy replaced that feeling. Both their inner-struggles to remember who they once were was tremendously sad. This is a wonderful tale, i don't know if i would call it a \"fairytale for adults\" like most people have described it, but it was hard for me to wrap my head around the concept without asking what if this could truly happen in our world today, (like little kids must wonder when reading fairytales)that would be a scary world. This is not the fairytale where dreams come true or the princess gets swept off her feet but prince charming. I promise the fairies in this tale are more human that myth. ...more I hope that Donohue writes more novels after this one because if they are as unique and well-written as The Stolen Child I will be first in line to read them. With The Stolen Child being his first novel Donohue definitely does not burst quietly on to the scene. The only problem he may encounter for any future novels is that he now has set the bar pretty high for himself now. A problem not uncommon in the writing world. What drew me to this book was the unique storyline and I was not disappointed. I hope that Donohue writes more novels after this one because if they are as unique and well-written as The Stolen Child I will be first in line to read them. With The Stolen Child being his first novel Donohue definitely does not burst quietly on to the scene. The only problem he may encounter for any future novels is that he now has set the bar pretty high for himself now. A problem not uncommon in the writing world. What drew me to this book was the unique storyline and I was not disappointed. Plot, characters, writing, you name it, were all fully developed and interesting. You find yourself drawn to both Henry's and liking them both equally, which was another thing I liked about the book, it didn't force you to choose one over the other. At times the book did drag a bit, parts seemingly forced in to create a bridge between plot points or something. At least those bits weren't that long and I still wanted to continue reading. The most remarkable thing about the novel were the changelings themselves. Trapped in the unaging bodies of children, they often act like kids, mischeivous, playful, but they also spoke and acted like adults, conversing sometimes like a group of people you would expect to find in wheelchairs at a nearby rest home. The combination was perfect, never seemed forced and always believable. Had it not been that way, I think the novel would have been awful. But it wasn't, so yay! It was a good read. If you like folk lore and Lord of the Flies you'll more than likely like this book. Even if you don't like either I'd still suggest checking this book out, you may surprise yourself. ...more I read this book all in pretty much one day, which is a feat considering work and regular day-to-day life. It's been a while since I had done that, and I have yet to have been so engrossed in a book as I was with The Stolen Child . I had found out about the novel on NPR, and it intrigued me, so I borrowed it from the library and pretty much devoured it on sight. Since we have two viewpoints and two stories to tell, although they both are intertwined, I couldn't help but develop a favourite between I read this book all in pretty much one day, which is a feat considering work and regular day-to-day life. It's been a while since I had done that, and I have yet to have been so engrossed in a book as I was with The Stolen Child . I had found out about the novel on NPR, and it intrigued me, so I borrowed it from the library and pretty much devoured it on sight. Since we have two viewpoints and two stories to tell, although they both are intertwined, I couldn't help but develop a favourite between Henry Day's character, and the \"stolen child\" Aniday, although both characters are and were stolen at one time or another. As Henry Day grew older, and was looking more into his past before he was taken, I grew less interested in his story, and more interested in Aniday's hobgoblin world and his eventual rejection and independence from the cycle, spurred by his affection for a fellow stolen child. I waffled between a three-star and four-star rating with this one. I adored the book, but at the same time, I felt like Henry Day's story could have been a little different; it seemed a little too easy to get into his past. Aniday seemed the more interesting character after about the midpoint of the book, but perhaps if I read the book again, maybe I wouldn't feel the same after a second or third read. In any case, if you're interested in magical realism or reinterpreted fairytales and lore, this book may be worth a shot. At the very least, it certainly read quickly in my case. ...more Spoilers as always I enjoyed how intertwined the storys were, like with Anaday winding up with McInes compositon book and Henry meeting McInes as an adult. All the characters are very flat, they just live thier lifes with no reasons for anything. If Igel did not want to switch, why did he not just say so and let the next changling go? I despised Beka, and then all of a sudden he stops being a womanizer. Yes, two of the four girls disapeared but he just stuck with Onions. No reasons. No part of t Spoilers as always I enjoyed how intertwined the storys were, like with Anaday winding up with McInes compositon book and Henry meeting McInes as an adult. All the characters are very flat, they just live thier lifes with no reasons for anything. If Igel did not want to switch, why did he not just say so and let the next changling go? I despised Beka, and then all of a sudden he stops being a womanizer. Yes, two of the four girls disapeared but he just stuck with Onions. No reasons. No part of the magic was explained or how the changlings started or why or how they chose the next child. Just they had to be unhappy. Overall it was not horrid just kinda flat and meh. ...more Complex, and worth reading twice. Waffling between 4 and 5 stars because normally I don't go for the mood and feelings elicited by this book. He magically recreates some of the terror, rage, grief and despair of childhood but cocooned in fantasy and with such an absorbing plot and characters that you can wolf it down without self-analysis. It's unsettling and it would easily lead to insight. Five stars I'll give if a book changed my life or world view. I'm still mulling this one over, and it may Complex, and worth reading twice. Waffling between 4 and 5 stars because normally I don't go for the mood and feelings elicited by this book. He magically recreates some of the terror, rage, grief and despair of childhood but cocooned in fantasy and with such an absorbing plot and characters that you can wolf it down without self-analysis. It's unsettling and it would easily lead to insight. Five stars I'll give if a book changed my life or world view. I'm still mulling this one over, and it may be a life changer. Brilliant writing. ...more I picked this book up because faeries, occasionally referred to as hobgoblins by the main characters, played a very major role in the novel. If you were thinking this was going to be some fun fantasy filled story, I suggest you step back, because the fantasy in this novel is very minimal, almost non-existent. The story is told through alternating chapters from the first povs of Henry Day and Aniday. It\u2019s a very slow and subtle progression from childhood to adulthood and each of them had their own I picked this book up because faeries, occasionally referred to as hobgoblins by the main characters, played a very major role in the novel. If you were thinking this was going to be some fun fantasy filled story, I suggest you step back, because the fantasy in this novel is very minimal, almost non-existent. The story is told through alternating chapters from the first povs of Henry Day and Aniday. It\u2019s a very slow and subtle progression from childhood to adulthood and each of them had their own distinctive voice and character. This book touched a lot on the search for one\u2019s identity, the pressures of fitting in, and love. Faeries are depicted as eking out a pathetic existence; barely surviving as the arrival of the modern age encroaches closer and closer on their homes, and nearly starving, only managing to eat whatever they can scrounge up or steal. They\u2019re not the beautiful, desirable creatures most novels have them drawn up as, and instead are short, childlike in appearance, and are quite filthy. While on the other hand, Henry Day, is shown as never becoming comfortable in his new life, and he fights the suspicions and his own paranoia that his secret of how he\u2019s a changeling will be revealed. This book was quite a journey, filled with depth and emotion, and the writing was great and full of meaning, but I just didn\u2019t devour. I guess it was just a tad bit too slow for me to be truly engaged in it. That\u2019s not to mean it wasn\u2019t a great story, because it was and I would gladly recommend this book to anyone who wants a bit more substance than the usual easy reads. ...more Um livro demasiado intrigante...Quem sou eu? Qual a minha verdadeira identidade? Identifica-mo-nos pelo nome que nos atribu\u00edram, pela fam\u00edlia e cultura que dizem ser a nossa... mas e se isso n\u00e3o for verdade? Quem seria eu se tivesse sido educado por outras pessoas? Este livro aparentemente confuso coloca-nos 2 quest\u00f5es importantes inerentes aos 2 protagonista: o trasgo que tem medo de ser descoberto e procura a sua verdadeira identidade e o verdadeiro Henry que n\u00e3o quer esquecer as suas ra\u00edzes. Se Um livro demasiado intrigante...Quem sou eu? Qual a minha verdadeira identidade? Identifica-mo-nos pelo nome que nos atribu\u00edram, pela fam\u00edlia e cultura que dizem ser a nossa... mas e se isso n\u00e3o for verdade? Quem seria eu se tivesse sido educado por outras pessoas? Este livro aparentemente confuso coloca-nos 2 quest\u00f5es importantes inerentes aos 2 protagonista: o trasgo que tem medo de ser descoberto e procura a sua verdadeira identidade e o verdadeiro Henry que n\u00e3o quer esquecer as suas ra\u00edzes. Ser\u00e1 a nossa bagagem familiar assim t\u00e3o importante para a nossa constru\u00e7\u00e3o individual? Eu sentir-me ia perdida, confusa.. mesmo sabendo o que sei da minha fam\u00edlia estou sempre `procura de mais e mais informa\u00e7\u00f5es: bisav\u00f3, tetrav\u00f3, onde, porque....para mim \u00e9 um pe\u00e7a muito importante para a minha constru\u00e7\u00e3o pessoal, o legado familiar. Mas e se eu vivesse isolada, praticamente sozinha, teria esta mesma necessidade?? Aparentemente as fadas n\u00e3o... mas eu acho que continuaria a ter, caso contr\u00e1rio seria um corpo oco e vazio... o sil\u00eancio faria eco demais de certeza.... Ler este livro \u00e9 um acto de consciencializa\u00e7\u00e3o do eu, da identidade... n\u00e3o de deixem enganar pelo titulo e muito menos pelo facto de ter fadas e trasgos. ...more Este livro conta a hist\u00f3ria de uma crian\u00e7a roubada. Henry Day que um dia foge de casa \u00e9 raptado por trasgos (nao gosto do nome bah) que s\u00e3o umas fadas, uns seres fant\u00e1sticos, que roubam a vida desta e de tantas outras crian\u00e7as para viverem no lugar delas. Henry Day \u00e9 uma dessas crian\u00e7as que tem sua vida roubada e \u00e9 rapidamente baptizado de Aniday. O livro \u00e9 contado de dois diferentes pontos de vista, Henry Day, o trasgo que assumiu o corpo da crian\u00e7a roubada e conta o seu dia-a-dia, agora numa no Este livro conta a hist\u00f3ria de uma crian\u00e7a roubada. Henry Day que um dia foge de casa \u00e9 raptado por trasgos (nao gosto do nome bah) que s\u00e3o umas fadas, uns seres fant\u00e1sticos, que roubam a vida desta e de tantas outras crian\u00e7as para viverem no lugar delas. Henry Day \u00e9 uma dessas crian\u00e7as que tem sua vida roubada e \u00e9 rapidamente baptizado de Aniday. O livro \u00e9 contado de dois diferentes pontos de vista, Henry Day, o trasgo que assumiu o corpo da crian\u00e7a roubada e conta o seu dia-a-dia, agora numa nova fam\u00edlia, vivendo no nosso mundo actual e o de Aniday que passa a viver com os outros seres que tentam voltar \u00e0 vida humana, atrav\u00e9s de outras crian\u00e7as. O livro, por tratar de duas crian\u00e7as, tem uma hist\u00f3ria infantil, mas o tom \u00e9 de gente adulta. \u00c9 uma viagem pela procura da identidade, pelo passado que n\u00e3o pode ser esquecido, pelo voltar \u00e0s nossas origens e a luta pela liberdade. Gostei mas sinceramente o que acontece neste livro n\u00e3o deixa de ser um rapto e eu n\u00e3o gostei muito do tema abordado. ...more Light, tangy and juicy like the most perfect wild tangerine plucked in the high of summer, The Stolen Child shines brightly in it's readers hearts. the adventures of a certain Henry Day turns into withdrawals from his family after being captured by the faerie folk. Now, as Aniday, he learns the way of life for the rest of his kind and he gradually becomes accustomed to his surroundings. Meanwhile, the fake Henry Day lives out the real ones life, enjoying almost every minute of it. Fascinating an Light, tangy and juicy like the most perfect wild tangerine plucked in the high of summer, The Stolen Child shines brightly in it's readers hearts. the adventures of a certain Henry Day turns into withdrawals from his family after being captured by the faerie folk. Now, as Aniday, he learns the way of life for the rest of his kind and he gradually becomes accustomed to his surroundings. Meanwhile, the fake Henry Day lives out the real ones life, enjoying almost every minute of it. Fascinating and simplifically beautiful, The Stolen Child had me thinking twice about those seemingly \"nice\" and \"cutesy\" fairies I read about as a child. Moving and nearly unforgettable. ...more I'm not a big fan of fantasy, but I was intrigued by the premise of this book: child-like creatures swap places with children. This examines two such creatures/children. A changeling, once a little boy named Gustav, decides to swap places with 7-year-old Henry Day in a place that appears to be Pennsylvania in the late 1940s. The story, told by both boys in alternating chapters follows the next 30-some years of their lives. The novel never really grabbed me and made me care about either character I'm not a big fan of fantasy, but I was intrigued by the premise of this book: child-like creatures swap places with children. This examines two such creatures/children. A changeling, once a little boy named Gustav, decides to swap places with 7-year-old Henry Day in a place that appears to be Pennsylvania in the late 1940s. The story, told by both boys in alternating chapters follows the next 30-some years of their lives. The novel never really grabbed me and made me care about either character. It dwells too much on the inner thoughts of both, and not enough with their interaction in the real world. ...more 7 year old Henry Day runs away from home, hides in a hollow tree and is taken by changelings. He becomes Aniday and the changeling who takes his place becomes Henry. The book follows both their stories, skillfully interwoven, over the years. The new Henry has memories of his first human life, of playing the piano, and insists on taking lessons, showing tremendous talent from the beginning. Aniday quickly forgets his life as Henry, and struggles to learn who he was before he was taken. A wonderfu 7 year old Henry Day runs away from home, hides in a hollow tree and is taken by changelings. He becomes Aniday and the changeling who takes his place becomes Henry. The book follows both their stories, skillfully interwoven, over the years. The new Henry has memories of his first human life, of playing the piano, and insists on taking lessons, showing tremendous talent from the beginning. Aniday quickly forgets his life as Henry, and struggles to learn who he was before he was taken. A wonderful, at times heart-breaking, book. ...more This was an interesting story about a changeling and the life he stole from a young boy. It\u2019s also about the young boy and his new life as a changeling. I enjoyed the folk lore behind it immensely. Both boys, the changeling and the human, narrate this book alternating chapters. It was fascinating to watch the progression of both boys. I don\u2019t know what I expected from the ending but I found it to be a bit lacking \u2013 with no real climax. 4.5 stars. I couldn't quite bring myself to give this five stars because it didn't completely engulf me, but it was better than most of the books I've given four stars lately. This was a beautifully sad story about a boy stolen by the changelings, the changeling who took his place, and the little ways their paths cross over the years. This is a book about love, family and secrets. Haunting, sad, beautifully told, short and simple. Everyone should read this book. 3.5. Liked how it started but then parts were not so great. The ending was decent - there was closure which is what I like in books. A quick read. I don't know what it is about this book. I have tried three times to read it, and I can't do it. I should love it, but I find it boring for some reason. The central characters don't seem real.<---C>Keith Donohue</---C>", "Title": "The Stolen Child"},
