{"Comments": "I've always used the goodreads star rating: 5=it was amazing 4=really liked it 3=liked it 2=it was okay 1=did not like Which means that I ruin the scale for all the books I review, because most people seem to use the following scale: 5=liked it 4=it was okay 3=it was boring and/or poorly written 2=it had huge flaws, and was barely readable. 1=I don't like the author/disagree with the author's opinion on a politicized subject I sometimes feel guilty about all my average \"liked it\" star ratings in a world o I've always used the goodreads star rating: 5=it was amazing 4=really liked it 3=liked it 2=it was okay 1=did not like Which means that I ruin the scale for all the books I review, because most people seem to use the following scale: 5=liked it 4=it was okay 3=it was boring and/or poorly written 2=it had huge flaws, and was barely readable. 1=I don't like the author/disagree with the author's opinion on a politicized subject I sometimes feel guilty about all my average \"liked it\" star ratings in a world of grade inflation, and have thought about re-scaling all my books so that they all have 4 or 5 stars. But then a book comes along like this,<---M> where it really was amazing</---M>, and I'm glad that I so rarely give out 5 stars, because then people can understand that 5 stars means that this book is really something special, and not merely good. I can't tell you too much about this book without spoiling things.<---F> It's about memory and family dynamics</---F>. It's about life at an American university in the 1990s, and about the politics of scientific research. It's about a family in which to of the siblings are gone, and no one will talk about why. I loved Fowler's wry wit. I laughed out loud at how the family avoids unpleasant subjects at Thanksgiving. I laughed at Rosemary's attempts to talk to people without their would be boy/girlfriend getting in the way. I loved the roommate dynamics. I especially loved that there were words in this novel that I hadn't ever seen before and didn't know the meaning of, as that rarely happens anymore. I especially loved that it dealt with difficult, political topics without getting too heavy-handed or proselytizing. I liked that, despite the darkness of the subject, it managed a bittersweet ending. I recommend this for people who like novels. ...more I could not relate to the characters and the choppy writing style! Wanted to like this book, and there were interesting elements, but I couldn't connect to the way the story was told. Forced myself to even skim the book. Am I the only person, it seems, who did not like it? \u201cShe\u2019d just rear-ended a cop car and she said that only the week before she\u2019d been arrested shoplifting tortillas and salsa for a Sunday afternoon football party at her house. \u2018This is so not good,\u2019 she told me. \u2018Honestly, I have the worst luck.\u2019 \u201d Luck? That's not luck, that's typical stupid choices leading to disaster. I started laughing almost immediately because this sounded so familiar. I am a longtime fan of Fowler\u2019s work going back to Sarah Canary. WE ARE ALL COMPLETELY BESIDE OURSELVES wa \u201cShe\u2019d just rear-ended a cop car and she said that only the week before she\u2019d been arrested shoplifting tortillas and salsa for a Sunday afternoon football party at her house. \u2018This is so not good,\u2019 she told me. \u2018Honestly, I have the worst luck.\u2019 \u201d Luck? That's not luck, that's typical stupid choices leading to disaster. I started laughing almost immediately because this sounded so familiar. I am a longtime fan of Fowler\u2019s work going back to Sarah Canary. WE ARE ALL COMPLETELY BESIDE OURSELVES was a continuous surprise\u2014mysterious, comic, nostalgic, smart, and humane. <---C>Rosemary Cooke</---C> is 22 in what she calls the middle of her story, and gets arrested for throwing milk in her college cafeteria. She hasn\u2019t seen her brother in 11 years and her sister disappeared when she was 5. She doesn\u2019t remember how any of this happened, but she\u2019s about to figure it out. I don\u2019t think I should say more about the story, only that I was laughing almost immediately and crying by the last page. I read this book in 2 days. It just doesn\u2019t get any better than tears, laughter, and amazement. This novel is probably the best thing I've read in over a year, and I am a devoted reader. The main character has genuine bad luck and blames herself for it. She has to get over that. She is born into a life she didn't choose\u2014just as we all are\u2014and she makes the best she can of that life. That's also what we all must do. ...more Okay. So if I was to give <---A>Karen Joy Fowler</---A> advice on how to write a great novel, I'd tell her to come with an engaging, intelligent and witty narrator and have her tell a captivating, moving and timely story and do it in a compelling and original way. Oh wait. I don't have to, because she just did all that in her latest totally wonderful novel entitled <+++>We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves</+++>. This is a novel that is best read with as little pre-knowledge as possible. It starts out as a seemingly Okay. So if I was to give Karen Joy Fowler advice on how to write a great novel, I'd tell her to come with an engaging, intelligent and witty narrator and have her tell a captivating, moving and timely story and do it in a compelling and original way. Oh wait. I don't have to, because she just did all that in her latest totally wonderful novel entitled <+++>We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves</+++>. This is a novel that is best read with as little pre-knowledge as possible. It starts out as a seemingly emotionally troubled college-age woman is telling a story involving her apparently dysfunctional family. Around 1/4 of the way through there is a \"reveal\" that totally changes the way you look at the novel. Those of you \"don't-give-away-the-plot\" purists would be extremely disappointed to learn what the reveal is before you reach that part of the book. I'm not that way, and still I am glad that I didn't know. Although the change made the book a bit awkward and a little too fantastical at first, Fowler develops it beautifully and produces a strong and important novel of our or anyone's times. I don't want to give anything else away. Suffice it to say that I have read many novels over the last couple of years, many of them very good and some of them I would consider masterpieces. This novel, without question, falls into the latter category. It is a compelling, very readable, very witty and tremendously moving novel about family and life on earth. Highly, highly recommended. ...more I just settled a debate with myself. If you don\u2019t know the premise of this book already, I decided not to be the one to tell you. As it happened, I did read this with foreknowledge and suspect I would have enjoyed it more without knowing the twist. Fowler gets to it soon enough. And if your jaw doesn\u2019t drop, expect, at a minimum, to crack a smile. Sans spoilers, I can still set the stage. Rosemary Cooke is a university student in California and in most ways fairly typical. She deviates most notab I just settled a debate with myself. If you don\u2019t know the premise of this book already, I decided not to be the one to tell you. As it happened, I did read this with foreknowledge and suspect I would have enjoyed it more without knowing the twist. Fowler gets to it soon enough. And if your jaw doesn\u2019t drop, expect, at a minimum, to crack a smile. Sans spoilers, I can still set the stage. Rosemary Cooke is a university student in California and in most ways fairly typical. She deviates most notably with a desire to blend in quietly \u2013 that and an odd connection to a fellow student who had acted up in a very public way over a boyfriend. The more Rosemary tells us of herself, the more hints we get of an unusual past. She came from a loving and broad-minded family, but one that ultimately saw older brother Lowell and close-in-age sister Fern leaving home. The circumstances leading up to this are the driving force of the narrative, and a delayed aftermath propels the story from there. Shortening the summary now seems like an especially good call. With so much space left on the page, short-shrifting premise and plot, I won\u2019t feel guilty going on about the writing instead. As the Booker committee would no doubt agree (they short-listed this for the prize in 2014, the first year American authors were eligible), it\u2019s very well done. It\u2019s stylish, witty and insightful, as I hope these examples support: \"Antagonism in my family comes wrapped in layers of code, sideways feints, full deniability.\" \"Parents are too innocent for the Boschian landscapes of middle school.\" \"When I run the world, librarians will be exempt from tragedy. Even their smaller sorrows will last only for as long as you can take out a book.\" \"2012. An election year in the U.S., as if you needed to be reminded, the vituperative tunes of the Ayn Rand Marching Band bleating from the airwaves.\" \"\u2026the uncanny-valley response wherein people respond ever more positively to robots or images that approximate human likeness, until a breaking point where the almost-but-not-quite human gives us the creeps.\" As for themes, I\u2019ll remain guarded and elliptical, but will say that they resonate. Family dynamics featuring loss often do. Despite the fact that most readers will have no first-hand experience relating to the Cooke family\u2019s drama, Rosemary is such an engaging narrator that we can\u2019t help but see clearly through her eyes. A big part of the payoff is witnessing how she comes to view her own remodeled self. ...more Yep, I was beside myself! Kept imagining I was not still reading this!! Borrrring ... dulllll ...teeeeedious ... and more than a little drawn out. I really wanted to like it as I was excited to see a new release from Fowler. I enjoyed The Jane Austen Book Club (although it is one of those rare books where I actually liked the movie better). The whiny main character (the voice of this first-person narrative) got on my nerves; no wonder she had difficulty forming even fictional friendships. I couldn't Yep, I was beside myself! Kept imagining I was not still reading this!! Borrrring ... dulllll ...teeeeedious ... and more than a little drawn out. I really wanted to like it as I was excited to see a new release from Fowler. I enjoyed The Jane Austen Book Club (although it is one of those rare books where I actually liked the movie better). The whiny main character (the voice of this first-person narrative) got on my nerves; no wonder she had difficulty forming even fictional friendships. I couldn't form one with her on paper. The dysfunctional family is well done but a little overanalaysed (do we need so many pointers to make the reader realise why there are fractured relationships). The animal lab testing is way too protracted (ok ... tell me again in case you haven't sledgehammered the message of its evils into my feeble brain). The timeframe pointers with music and movies were clever, the setting at UC Davis was well done, the cast of supporting characters was charming and witty. The book is based on a clever twist that for me made \"before the reveal\" feel restrained while the part \"after the reveal\" felt laboured and too long. ...more This book got me out of my very long reading slump. It was such an easy book to read, yet it was wonderfully complex. I sank into it as I hadn\u2019t sunk into a book for a long time. It felt wonderful. So, so funny. So wise. So psychologically smart and sophisticated. So entertaining. Not a false note, though the very ending wasn\u2019t perfect for me, but it was okay. I loved all the literary and psychology/science references. Devastating too as it was emotionally raw. Complicated in a perfect way. It\u2019s This book got me out of my very long reading slump. It was such an easy book to read, yet it was wonderfully complex. I sank into it as I hadn\u2019t sunk into a book for a long time. It felt wonderful. So, so funny. So wise. So psychologically smart and sophisticated. So entertaining. Not a false note, though the very ending wasn\u2019t perfect for me, but it was okay. I loved all the literary and psychology/science references. Devastating too as it was emotionally raw. Complicated in a perfect way. It\u2019s a marvelous and unique coming of age story, and I love all sorts of coming of age stories. I love Rosemary\u2019s voice too, the main character who tells the story. I somewhat know two of the major settings: Davis California and Bloomington Indiana. So, that was fun, even though there wasn\u2019t a huge amount of detail of either, but I still had fun knowing the places. Unfortunately, I knew much about it before reading it, and this is one book that\u2019s much better to go into totally cold. Reading the hardcover book\u2019s jacket is fine. Reading book descriptions and reviews is not. I still enjoyed it, but I think I\u2019d have loved it even more had I known nothing other than what\u2019s on the book\u2019s cover; in other words, virtually nothing. So that leads me to my dilemma. I want to highly recommend this book to my real world book club, but I don\u2019t want members to expect too much detail when they ask me about it, and I really don\u2019t want them looking it up. That might be a bit of a problem. ...more Further proof that the 2014 Man Booker Prize was an absolute farce. I was enjoying this novel until it went all Jane Goodall. I applaud its use of an unconventional narrative structure and Fowler's humourous prose but the plot just bored me. Like a sandwich from Quiznos, I had to really force myself to finish it. It would be fine without all the monkey business. This is actually the middle of the review - I decided to skip the beginning where I might have discussed the plot, the writing, etc., and I\u2019ll probably skip the end too because if there's no beginning, there\u2019s really no need for an end. So here we are in the middle, taking time out from the meat of the review for a little reflection on reading and life in general. What about a catchy ritzy aphorism to kick us off: Books are mirrors: you only see in them what you already have inside you. (Carlos Ru This is actually the middle of the review - I decided to skip the beginning where I might have discussed the plot, the writing, etc., and I\u2019ll probably skip the end too because if there's no beginning, there\u2019s really no need for an end. So here we are in the middle, taking time out from the meat of the review for a little reflection on reading and life in general. What about a catchy ritzy aphorism to kick us off: Books are mirrors: you only see in them what you already have inside you. (Carlos Ruiz Zafon, The Shadow of the Wand ) This is an interesting statement. Actually, having just reread it while typing, I see even more in it than I did at first. It is quite sobering really, the more I think about it. In fact, I'm completely bowled over by it, and not exactly in a good way. It makes me feel as if I've been punched - ouch! - in the stomach...my heart is racing, there are black spots before my eyes...I can hardly breath...(you see sometimes (i'm whispering here because it's hard to admit this) sometimes, i don't see...sometimes i just don't see a lot to admire in certain books...i miss all the gems others seem to find in them....so if books are mirrors, as zafon says, does that mean i\u2019m...empty inside? that there's nothing much there? this is a dark moment in my reading life...and it\u2019s particularly scary because I failed to see anything at all in zafon's own book and he somehow, magically perhaps, knew that I would fail with his book...yes, he knew that....and he wrote that line just to make me panic, to make me hyperventilate, to turn me into a...hysterical...babbling....mess...) Help! I need an aphorism from Karen Joy Fowler's narrator (she favours aphorisms) to calm me down a little: Sometimes you best avoid talking by being quiet... ....but sometimes you best avoid talking by talking . Phew! The second part of that Fowlerism was a relief. I thought I might have to go on and on filling the middle of this review with blank space which certainly wasn't going to make me feel less hysterical. Typing actual words is helping to calm me down though. My thanks to KJF for rescuing me from that nightmarish Catchy Ritzy Zaphorism! So now that I'm calm again, I can further investigate this problem I have with certain books and authors, how I often fail to see the merit in them that others see, and I'm talking about books nominated for prestigious prizes so it's a really serious situation. For example, I read a Pulitzer Prize winner earlier this year and it seemed to me to have more in common with the Harry Potter series than with adult literature. I really must be sadly out of step with today's reading tastes, and somewhere out there I'm sure someone is saying that it's all a matter of bloody-mindedness, that I\u2019m too blinkered to see the value of the text before my eyes and that instead, I'm wasting everyone's time harping on about what's missing. KJF has a very fitting aphorism on that subject too: The sunset you see is always better than the one you don\u2019t. She goes on to say More stars are always better than less. (I think she must be on goodreads ;-) There's no doubt that KJF is a very positive-sounding person, and as I've spent some not unpleasant hours in her company, you'll be relieved to hear that a little of her positivity has rubbed off on me. So it's a good moment to mention that I'm always looking for humour in an author's writing, even in writing concerned with so-called 'serious' subjects - and I'm talking about humour that goes beyond the annoying smart-ass tone that authors like to give their narrators in order to keep readers reading deliberately emotionally-hyped content. I like to find some awareness that authors know how to laugh at both themselves and what they have created. So I was pleased to find a deeply funny line in this book which caused me to mentally pat KJF on the head. But because the book is structured so carefully around not having its central theme revealed until close to the middle, I'll have to put the funny line inside spoiler tags. (view spoiler) [ Who were, after all, as ordinary a pair of people who'd tried to rear a chimp like a human child as you were going to find. (right alongside their own precious baby, let me point out) (hide spoiler) ] Although the main themes of the book were not intended to be comic, I really laughed out loud at that line... ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ 4.5 Stars \u201cIn everyone\u2019s life there are people who stay and people who go and people who are taken away against their will.\u201d This is the story of three siblings: Rosemary (who stayed), Lowell (who went), and Fern (who was taken away). The only reason I even gave this book a chance was because some of my Goodreads friends were reading it and giving it many stars. I mean, the other book I recognized as being written by the author was T Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ 4.5 Stars \u201cIn everyone\u2019s life there are people who stay and people who go and people who are taken away against their will.\u201d This is the story of three siblings: Rosemary (who stayed), Lowell (who went), and Fern (who was taken away). The only reason I even gave this book a chance was because some of my Goodreads friends were reading it and giving it many stars. I mean, the other book I recognized as being written by the author was The Jane Austen Book Club , the title of which alone makes me think I\u2019d choose to take a hot poker to the eye rather than read. It probably goes without saying that upon the start I was prepared for a 2-Star quality selection at best. Holy crap was I wrong. Sadly, this is one of those books where I really can\u2019t say anything without potentially giving everything away, so you\u2019ll just have to trust me when I say We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves was this close to being rated 5 Stars by me (it loses half a point only for occasionally taking itself a little too serious with the scientific mumbo-jumbo which caused my attention to wane). I love reading a book that makes me ask: \u201cHow in the heck did someone come up with this premise????\" Not only does this book do that, but it does it with impeccable timing, an effortless flow between the past and the present, and a narrator with a dry humored delivery that made her so believable. Oh, and dare I forget to mention \u2013 I found myself getting a little choked up more than once. Me, the woman with no heart. Imagine what it might do to all of you who aren\u2019t emotionally unavailable . . . I feel confident in saying that this will go down as one of the best books I read in 2014 and I hope to always remember that \u201cin the phrase human being , the word being is much more important than the word human .\" (As for the poker chip, you\u2019ll have to read the book for yourself in order to figure its significance) ...more We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves has generated a lot of hype and gathered a large amount of positive reception, including praise from authors such as Ursula K. Le Guin and Andrea Barrett. But undoubtedly the biggest boost of all was the inclusion on the shortlist for the Booker Prize. This year's Booker was the first of its kind, as it has controversially accepted works by authors from outside the UK and the Commonwealth - and for a moment it looked as if the book by Karen Joy Fowler, an A We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves has generated a lot of hype and gathered a large amount of positive reception, including praise from authors such as Ursula K. Le Guin and Andrea Barrett. But undoubtedly the biggest boost of all was the inclusion on the shortlist for the Booker Prize. This year's Booker was the first of its kind, as it has controversially accepted works by authors from outside the UK and the Commonwealth - and for a moment it looked as if the book by Karen Joy Fowler, an American, had a serious chance of winning it. I was not familiar with her work at all - I only know that she wrote The Jane Austen Book Club , which my mom really liked. The award went to Richard Flanagan, an Australian, for his The Narrow Road to the Deep North , which I still haven't read - but I'm on a quest to read every Booker winner (and nominee), and will eventually get to it as well. However, after finishing We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves , I have mixed feelings about its nomination - I can definitely see the reasons why it was included, but personally believe that it did not belong there. We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves revolves around a single narrative development - a a big reveal around 1/3 in the book. But the problem is that I'm not sure if it was supposed to really be a plot twist - the book is structured as to not let the reader discover it before it's revealed by the narrator, but the information has not been exactly secret: it's been included in press releases and in many reviews. I've purposefully avoided any information about the book prior to actually reading it - it's very easy to spoil, and I think the overall effect will be lessened if you know this particular plot detail. And it is this detail which makes the book exceedingly difficult to review, or discuss, without spoiling it for other readers - but I will nonetheless try to do my best, and divide the review into two sections: one where I discuss the spoiler, and subsequently a spoiler-free zone where I'll present my general remarks. The spoiler section: (view spoiler) [ We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves is a tale of two sisters, but unlike the Korean film of the same name the twist is wildly different - one of the sisters is a chimpanzee. Rosemary and Fern have been raised together, but Rosemary is a human girl and Fern is a female chimpanzee - their upbringing constituted an experiment which was meant to closely observe how primates develop. This fact is purposefully kept hidden from the reader for one third of the book, as Rosemary only refers to Fern as simply \"my sister\" and the only possible clues to Fern's nature are short epigraphs from Franz Kafka's Report for an Academy , which is narrated by an ape - but these epigraphs prove doubly prophetic only in retrospection. After Fern's nature is revealed, We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves - Fern is sent away after an accident in which she kills a small kitten, something for which Rosemary blames herself, as she convinced her parents that she's afraid of Fern. The whole book focuses on the importance of protecting animal rights - her estranged brother, Lowell, becomes an animal right activist: he is wanted by the authorities for damaging property and freeing caged animals. We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves is, ultimately, an agenda book - Rosemary's narrative is the only one, and she spends it emphasizing various horrific mistreatment that animals face - down to statistics and details. This is not a message I disagree with, but is conveyed in a manipulative way, and very much so - since Rosemary is the book's only narrator we see only her perspective on this issue. Which makes for a tiring reading experience - years after finishin this book most readers will probably remember its theme of animal abuse and the relationship between humans and animals, but not all the other details. This might have been the author's exact point - but it's not one that I appreciate. (hide spoiler) ] Non-spoiler area: We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves falls prey to its central theme: it holds everything together, and if we were to remove it everything would fall down like a house of cards. The book offers very little that isn't a vessel made for carrying this theme, and even what's offered is pretty bland. I couldn't relate to Rosemary and be interested in her college trials, and didn't care about any of the other characters. Although Fowler acknowledges that the issue presented is a difficult one, the book avoids presenting a different view and experience via another character. Ultimately, Rosemary's story, her college experience, family ties, and specific relationship with her sister are little more than a vehicle for the author to advance her point of view. Again, it's not a point of view I find particularly disagreeable, but I wanted to read a novel, and not a pamphlet. ...more I found the Fowler's book compelling and I'm glad that I knew very little about it before I began reading. The story became a discovery....I felt like I was along for a very emotional ride. It is a story of a dysfunctional family, of discovery of self, of the role of memory and recovery of childhood memory in adulthood, of loss, all through the eyes of daughter Rosemary. There is humor, pathos, anger, hurt, disappointment, love and hate, all the emotions you would expect to find between human be I found the Fowler's book compelling and I'm glad that I knew very little about it before I began reading. The story became a discovery....I felt like I was along for a very emotional ride. It is a story of a dysfunctional family, of discovery of self, of the role of memory and recovery of childhood memory in adulthood, of loss, all through the eyes of daughter Rosemary. There is humor, pathos, anger, hurt, disappointment, love and hate, all the emotions you would expect to find between human beings within and outside of a family. Memory isn't linear and family life doesn't seem to be either. Issues of loss, identity, self, etc also mess with the orderly passage of time and life. This non-linear pattern is reflected in the structure of the novel. I think the power of the story would have been eroded with a more standard narrative. We need to be \"in\" the confusion. While there are so many more things that I could say about the book, I'd much rather say \"read it!\" \"experience it for yourself.\" This is unlike any book I've read before as a novel of a family life and reads almost like a memoir. The more I have thought about and discussed the book, the more I have decided that I need to increase my rating to 5* from my original 4. There is so much in this novel to appreciate.. ...more 5+++++++++ STARS 5++++++ 5+++++ I have people in my yard --and little time to write a review --yet I could talk about this book for hours. Its a book which will leave a LASTING impression with me on 'many' accounts. Here is a wonderful line in the book....(I just LIKED it) ---yet its not even what I would speak about FOR HOURS... Here is the 'gem' (this is for YOU book lovers): \"When I run the world, librarians will be exempt from tragedy. Even their smaller sorrows will last only for as long as yo 5+++++++++ STARS 5++++++ 5+++++ I have people in my yard --and little time to write a review --yet I could talk about this book for hours. Its a book which will leave a LASTING impression with me on 'many' accounts. Here is a wonderful line in the book....(I just LIKED it) ---yet its not even what I would speak about FOR HOURS... Here is the 'gem' (this is for YOU book lovers): \"When I run the world, librarians will be exempt from tragedy. Even their smaller sorrows will last only for as long as you can take out a book.\" ...more The most absorbing books I read have a vital lesson at their core: they teach me what it means to be human. Karen Joy Fowler\u2019s latest book tackles this crucial theme and by doing so, captured my heart and reduced me to tears. There is no getting around that this is an agenda book. Ms. Fowler\u2019s purpose is to show us\u2014through fiction\u2014that the most complicated animal \u2013 the human animal can be disastrous to the rest of the animal kingdom through sheer arrogance. Typically, I avoid authorial intrusion l The most absorbing books I read have a vital lesson at their core: they teach me what it means to be human. Karen Joy Fowler\u2019s latest book tackles this crucial theme and by doing so, captured my heart and reduced me to tears. There is no getting around that this is an agenda book. Ms. Fowler\u2019s purpose is to show us\u2014through fiction\u2014that the most complicated animal \u2013 the human animal can be disastrous to the rest of the animal kingdom through sheer arrogance. Typically, I avoid authorial intrusion like the plague. But this book was so compulsively readable, so original, and so psychologically nuanced that I couldn\u2019t help but turn the pages compulsively. Rosemary Cooke, our narrator, is the daughter of a family of scientists. It takes her 77 pages to reveal a central truism of her life (which, inexplicably, is revealed by the publisher on every book blurb about this novel): she spent the first eighteen years of her life defined by the fact that she was raised as \u201ctwins\u201d with a chimpanzee named Fern. \u201cI tell you Fern is a chimp and already, you aren\u2019t thinking of her as my sister,\u201d Ms. Fowler writes. \u201cYou\u2019re thinking instead that we loved her as if she were some kind of pet.\u201d But that just wasn\u2019t so. Rosemary astutely realized that her father was not really studying whether chimps could communicate as humans. Rather, he is asking, \u201ccan Rosemary learn to speak to chimpanzees.\u201d Fern is sent away when Rosemary turns five, for reasons that remain obscure through most of the book. But her absence affects Rosemary the way the sudden disappearance of a sister would. By the time she goes to kindergarten, her mother must work with her to stand up straight, not put her fingers into anyone\u2019s mouth or hair, not jump on tables and desks when she is playing, not bite anyone. Her whole life is impacted by the \u201cexperiment\u201d of being raised with her sister Fern. \u201cWhat a scam I pulled off!\u201d Rosemary reflects. \u201cWhat a triumph. Apparently, I\u2019d finally erased all those little cues, those maters of personal space, focal distance, facial expression, vocabulary. Apparently all you needed to be considered normal was no evidence to the contrary.\u201d I believed in the connection between Rosemary and Fern. This emotionally devastating book \u2013 which folds back on itself to reveal more and more of the story through false and real memories \u2013 confirms what I have long believed: that the rest of the animal kingdom has much to teach us in being human. ...more What a surprisingly interesting read. There's plenty of food for thought, right from the announcement that Rosemary had her \"Own personal Schrodinger's Cat,\" to her insistence that memories cannot be trusted. Even so, these minor reveals are not the important pieces that frame this narrative structure. They may be emotional and harrowing, but the novel is much more than just this. It's really about our place in the universe and how \"Others\" fit within it, as well. I was confused from the very star What a surprisingly interesting read. There's plenty of food for thought, right from the announcement that Rosemary had her \"Own personal Schrodinger's Cat,\" to her insistence that memories cannot be trusted. Even so, these minor reveals are not the important pieces that frame this narrative structure. They may be emotional and harrowing, but the novel is much more than just this. It's really about our place in the universe and how \"Others\" fit within it, as well. I was confused from the very start why this was nominated for a Nebula award, though not so much for why it was nominated for the Booker. The writing is very good and the number of topics and narrative juggling was as smooth as any I've seen. There are no aliens in this tale. There are humans and apes. I can't tell you how clever the afterthought works unless you read it yourself. Mind you, there aren't any twists. There are only after-effects. This is a very psychological and sociological novel set up as a near-twin study and an attempt to obliterate social differences by simply raising both children the same at the same time, but instead of getting a well-ordered experiment, life happens. In the end, though, I'm stuck in a quandary. Is there any real difference between Rosemary's brother Lowell and Fern? Chimps or aliens, the question is entirely the same. Is it just to treat \"Others\" any different than we treat ourselves? And, obviously, shouldn't we be treating ourselves better? These are the SF questions that I've seen a hundred times, and it's a real delight to see them brought so close to home. We can easily transfer Fern into our own brothers and sisters, or anyone who has mental illness, and see for ourselves just how poorly we treat our own. Imprisonment is imprisonment, no matter how you justify it or rename it. The whole idea falls into a fractal in this novel, applying itself to gender studies just as much as interspecies considerations, or even the episodic stories we tell ourselves to justify the things we've done. Memory is just as much a prison as anything. Again: This novel was a real delight! :) An easy read, too, believe it or not. :) ...more Ok, so this book is receiving high critical acclaim, yet I gave it 3 stars. Let me try to explain. I think Fowler's writing is mostly fine. There were a few points where the figurative language seemed forced to me, but no huge complaints. I liked the way Fowler often spoke directly to the reader. The plotting was fine too. It didn't bother me that she skipped from the middle of the story to the past and the present. It didn't bother me a bit that \"the reveal\", which you'd have to be living in a Ok, so this book is receiving high critical acclaim, yet I gave it 3 stars. Let me try to explain. I think Fowler's writing is mostly fine. There were a few points where the figurative language seemed forced to me, but no huge complaints. I liked the way Fowler often spoke directly to the reader. The plotting was fine too. It didn't bother me that she skipped from the middle of the story to the past and the present. It didn't bother me a bit that \"the reveal\", which you'd have to be living in a cave not to know, is delayed. I loved thinking about the theme of exactly what it is that makes us human. There were thought provoking observations such as this: \"If chimps watch a demonstration of how to get food out of a puzzle box, they, in turn, skip any unnecessary steps, go straight to the treat. Human children over-imitate, reproducing each step regardless of its necessity.\" The behavioral psychology of animals/humans was often fascinating and always well researched. What I did not care about was the Cooke family. I was not drawn into the family dynamics of that group at all. I was not interested in their togetherness, alienation and eventual reconciliation. The only relationship that I cared about was Rosemary and Fern. Without characters to care about, I should have read a non-fiction account of the experiments in co-existence among the species done in the 1930's. I saw no value in going into so much detail about Rosemary's roommates or crazy acquaintances. The animal activist parts were especially annoying. It became a little preachy to me. Ezra, Rosemary's landlord and a very minor character was my favorite. He says, \"The secret to a good life is to bring your A game to everything you do. Even if all you're doing is taking out the garbage, you do that with excellence.\" I already knew this but liked the reminder. Never once could I remember the title of this book. Yeah, \"Life is all about arrivals and departures\". I think I better depart right here before some of the rabid lovers of this book find out where I live. ...more This was a very different type of novel for this author, a novel that was not easy to write because at any time it could have easily crossed over into the absurd and it did not. It was humorous at times but always at the core there was an element of seriousness. This is a story that covers many complex issues, 1970's was a time of experimental animal psychology which of course led to many animal abuses and stories, that at times are very difficult to read. It is really too bad that in the book's This was a very different type of novel for this author, a novel that was not easy to write because at any time it could have easily crossed over into the absurd and it did not. It was humorous at times but always at the core there was an element of seriousness. This is a story that covers many complex issues, 1970's was a time of experimental animal psychology which of course led to many animal abuses and stories, that at times are very difficult to read. It is really too bad that in the book's synopsis it gives away so much because it was not until the second part of the book that the reader is made aware of exactly who this family was comprised of, a feat I found amazing. So this can be a condemnation of the animal experiments, a warning to us perhaps about overreaching, and at times it almost bordered on the preachy, but just when I thought that the author would pull back. This is also a coming of age story. Rosemary now a young adult looking back at her childhood and childhood self, a story about the reliability of memory. Does one remember the event or just the retelling of the event? Also family, what does it mean to be a family and exactly what do we owe other family members? Any way one wants to read this, it is well done, interesting, and animal lovers will surely be appalled but maybe it is something we all need to think about. How much do we allow in the progress of the sciences? ...more Due to various comments regarding the \"spoilers\" in my original review, I have added spoiler tags below. Disclaimer: I do NOT think this review contains spoilers. I'm super careful of this and would never give away an essential surprise of a story. The so-called \"spoilers\" are the main plot point and are described in detail in the description of the book found above. So if you've read the book description or read anything about this novel in a magazine review or author interview, don't worry abo Due to various comments regarding the \"spoilers\" in my original review, I have added spoiler tags below. Disclaimer: I do NOT think this review contains spoilers. I'm super careful of this and would never give away an essential surprise of a story. The so-called \"spoilers\" are the main plot point and are described in detail in the description of the book found above. So if you've read the book description or read anything about this novel in a magazine review or author interview, don't worry about the spoiler tags! But if you're the kind who wants to know nothing about a book before you start reading, go ahead and worry - and don't read the comments! Fern, (view spoiler) [a chimpanzee, (hide spoiler) ] and Rosemary are raised together as siblings; they are practically twins. In 1979, when Rosie is 5, Fern disappears. Six years later, Rosie's older brother, Lowell, follows suit. It takes Rosie until she's in her 20s to figure out why (on both counts). This books starts in the middle, in the mid-90s, when Rosie is in college. She's been in college for a while and has no idea what to do with herself. She likes being a student. (view spoiler) [She suppresses the \"otherness\" in herself, the chimpanzee part, which her elementary schoolmates dubbed \"monkey girl.\" (hide spoiler) ] No one at UC Davis knows anything about her, and she wants to keep it that way. Enter Harlow, a wild, wanton drama major, who pulls Rosie out of her shell (and gets her arrested to boot). Harlow and her boyfriend Reg become part of Rosie's story, as do Todd, her roommate, and Ezra, the intense CIA wannabe who is the manager of Rosie's apartment building. Fowler's novel isn't linear. We get glimpses of memories, usually analyzed with a caveat that memories are often inaccurate (Rosie's dad is a psychologist, so she knows a lot about this, and tells us so). (view spoiler) [Rosie doesn't tell us that Fern is a chimp until we're 20 percent into the book (to be fair, the book description reveals this, so it's not much of a giveaway). (hide spoiler) ] We don't find out what happened to Lowell until we're more than half-way through. And we don't meet Fern until the end, and even then, there's more, because what story really ends? I was frustrated with this book at first; some of the college scenes felt drawn out. But Rosie's voice rang true, as did her relationship with Fern. I am not an animal-rights activist, but while working on my master's in linguistics I studied chimpanzee language acquisition, and I am certainly anti animal experimentation and for the humane treatment of animals. If you're not, this book will change your mind. This is as much Fern's story, as Rosie's story. It's the story of the non-human animal who, in many ways, is more human than we are. It's about losing a sibling, then losing yourself. It's about yearning for something true. And finding it. ...more \"In everyone's life, there are people who stay and people who go and people who are taken against their will.\" Who do you remember the most? I asked myself. Those who make part of my primary circle of existence and have enriched my being with their presence? Or those who came and then departed for good, leaving an indelible mark on my life, as it looks today? Or those who, by all means that I could fathom, were supposed to be a part of my life but were disengaged from me with a menacing strike \"In everyone's life, there are people who stay and people who go and people who are taken against their will.\" Who do you remember the most? I asked myself. Those who make part of my primary circle of existence and have enriched my being with their presence? Or those who came and then departed for good, leaving an indelible mark on my life, as it looks today? Or those who, by all means that I could fathom, were supposed to be a part of my life but were disengaged from me with a menacing strike of destiny? I can\u2019t say, honestly. Then I rearranged the words and popped the question to myself again. This time, the answer was clear. The question: Who do I miss the most? Rosemary Cooke is in a swamp of agony and pain. She gets up one morning and realizes that her sister, Fern, has been taken away from her. After feigning audacity for many summers and winters, she, at last, acknowledges her inability to overcome this emotional ordeal. She does not want to overcome, in fact. She tries to piece together the being from the vivid memories she has. The faint curtains of childhood plays and innocent tricks that swooshes at her fiery heart cannot veil her helplessness that burns her day and night. She knocks relentlessly at the doors of her parents but hears nothing more than the excruciating silence of their soldered hearts. She pounds, with a maddening howl, the trails of her wayward brother, in search of one, tiny clue to unite her with Fern. But her brother reflects her emptiness like a mirror and she stumbles upon her discolored self in his disturbing, almost resigned, eyes. Amid random strangers and nagging neighbors, erudite academicians and gullible students, she spins her mind, sending darts of questions in all directions, expecting at least one of them to echo her torment and send some optimistic air back at her. But the spinning does not yield anything more than a nauseating headache, reminiscent of her ever-sinking heart. \"An off-told story is like a photograph in a family album. Eventually it replaces the moment it was meant to capture.\" Does Fern reduce to a picture in her family album? Or she springs to life every time a loved one\u2019s warm breath passes over her static smile? Does Rosemary give up on her only sister? In the blinding world of incorrigible beings, treacherous acts and calamitous events, can Fern\u2019s whereabouts be a shining light on a tower house, visible from a distance and untouched by the swarming sea of awful things beneath? Is she even alive? I thought it worthwhile to walk along with Rosemary and see where her hunt leads her to. And I must say the journey turned out to be a momentous one. (view spoiler) [I came to know that Fern was a chimpanzee; a twin who bears a five-year long experiment of Rosemary's Father, a Psychologist. When the experiment gets aborted, Fern gets abandoned to live a life with species of her own kind. But how far should the fragility of human existence that floats over the experimental waters of scientific quests be pursued? (hide spoiler) ] Fowler glorifies the bond of emotion that overgrows convention when tended with sensitivity, sacrifice, courage and love; when one does not need an endorsement from family and society and the warmth of a relationship is sufficient to melt the hardest of obstacles into nothingness; when we can love someone with such madness that the love does not die ever and hangs like a fragrant air for evenings together, long after we have taken divergent paths. I stood looking at Rosemary when she reached the last point of her voyage. I shed a tear. Something took a roll inside me. I placed a hand on my heart and caressed it. We all love atleast someone in our lives like that. And we know, that love will never be over. ...more Karen Fowler writes Science Fiction stories. Great ones. She\u2019s won the prestigious Nebula Award, not once but twice. Now no doubt you are wondering, so what? If you know anything about Fowler\u2019s tear-provoking, often hilarious, brilliantly realized new novel, \u201cWe are All Completely Beside Ourselves,\u201d than surely you know that it isn\u2019t a work of science fiction. If you\u2019ve suffered the misfortune of reading most reviews, than you know this novel\u2019s great reveal. Spoiler alert here: I will give you n Karen Fowler writes Science Fiction stories. Great ones. She\u2019s won the prestigious Nebula Award, not once but twice. Now no doubt you are wondering, so what? If you know anything about Fowler\u2019s tear-provoking, often hilarious, brilliantly realized new novel, \u201cWe are All Completely Beside Ourselves,\u201d than surely you know that it isn\u2019t a work of science fiction. If you\u2019ve suffered the misfortune of reading most reviews, than you know this novel\u2019s great reveal. Spoiler alert here: I will give you no spoilers. If, as I suspect, it was the choice of some narrow minded, imagination-impaired PR-type in the publisher\u2019s marketing department to go ahead and splash right on the cover what by rights should be this summer\u2019s most delicious literary reveal, well I won\u2019t abed his sin by repetition. Yes, that tidbit is the backbone of a great plot. Yet at its heart, Fowler\u2019s novel isn\u2019t one of plot, it is a work of character. So why mention those great sci-fi stories? Likely it is this author\u2019s practiced sci-fi pen that helps here in understanding no plot can overcome the need for great characters. Starships, robots, alternate dimensions, and the most cleverly crafted aliens are no substitute for a character\u2019s essential humanity. All Fowler\u2019s characters in this novel, from the narrator on down, exhibit just the sort of humanity which will make you laugh and weep. I worry that saying much more will reveal too much. One thing worthy of note is the excellence of Fowler\u2019s narrator Rosemary, as living, breathing a character as I\u2019ve seen recently on the page. Without mentioning titles or authors, reviewers recently heaped much praise on a novel that was written in a prose of extraordinary grace. The problem with that novel was that the narrator often suffered a ventriloquist dummies\u2019 manhandling when the author stepped into her mouth to make every sort of social observation that strained credulity coming from a sexy motor cycle riding, recent college grad, want-to-be artist. Fowler never makes that mistake. No, Rosemary\u2019s observations all feel genuine to her character, as if this fine author summoned her to page, s\u00e9ance-like. The descriptions are Rosemary\u2019s. The jokes \u2013 and they are often just blisteringly funny! \u2013 are Rosemary\u2019s. And the tragedy, which comes down on the reader\u2019s chest with the force of a fright train and the stealth of a ninja is likewise Rosemary\u2019s as well. While obviously a creation of Fowler, Rosemary is no mouth piece. Fowler\u2019s perspective characters, always artfully distinct, here add what may be the most elegantly constructed among their number. Beyond character, Fowler\u2019s novel is also one of ideas, giving thoughtful consideration to notions of love, loss, and attachment, and whether after suffering a great loss one can ever hope to again be made whole. While few if any readers will share Rosemary\u2019s most unusual upbringing, likely all will find much that is familiar in her struggles. So you\u2019ll laugh, cry, and think. If you\u2019re truly luck, you\u2019ll come to this outstanding novel without the unpleasant baggage of what others will want you to know. If you are among that latter group, I am green with envy. ...more \"I\u2019VE TOLD YOU the middle of my story now. I\u2019ve told you the end of the beginning and I\u2019ve told you the beginning of the end.\" So says the narrator. Read all those missing bits for yourself as I do not wish to spoil the plot for you. Someone recommended Karen Joy Fowler's novel \"We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves\", and, I'll be honest, I was hesitant to read it because she also wrote \"The Jane Austen Book Club\", a book which I haven't read but which seemed like the kind of chick lit that I can't stand---a group of women from all walks of life, bonding over some kind of club (be it knitting, cooking, books, traveling pants, or Downton Abbey), talking about how shitty their relationships are or reminiscing about the dream Someone recommended Karen Joy Fowler's novel \"We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves\", and, I'll be honest, I was hesitant to read it because she also wrote \"The Jane Austen Book Club\", a book which I haven't read but which seemed like the kind of chick lit that I can't stand---a group of women from all walks of life, bonding over some kind of club (be it knitting, cooking, books, traveling pants, or Downton Abbey), talking about how shitty their relationships are or reminiscing about the dream guy who got away in college or the one time they visited Paris yadda yadda yadda---which I realize is the worst kind of book snobbery and blatant prejudice but, hey, I'm just being honest. Anyway, someone recommended this book, her latest, and I'm glad they did. \"WAACBO\" is a phenomenal, brilliant, beautiful, amazing, thought-provoking tear-jerker of a novel, and I can't say too much about it without dropping spoilers, but it's basically, bottom line, a book that questions the definition of the word \"human\". It's the story of a young woman named Rosemary Cooke, who is a socially awkward college student with a dysfunctional family history. Her older brother is on the lam from the FBI, and she has some troubling issues with her \"memories\" of growing up with her parents, her brother, and sister. She also had an imaginary friend named Mary. Then there are the numerous grad students that came and went throughout her childhood. Her childhood was a pretty normal childhood, except for one important fact: (view spoiler) [ her sister, Fern, was a chimpanzee. Something happened when she was younger that resulted in Fern being sent away, and the family immediately fell apart afterwards. Unfortunately, Rosemary can't (or won't) remember what happened, exactly. It was something bad; so bad that she has created \"alternative\" memories to mask them. It was so bad that her brother disappeared to lead a life of crime, but a crime that's arguably an honorable one: he became an animal rights activist, an activity that the government considers \"domestic terrorism\". When her brother shows up at her college dorm one day, out of the blue, after nearly a decade of silence, her memories begin to return. (hide spoiler) ] Fowler's novel is that rare novel that touches on important, even controversial, themes without being preachy or pedagogic. (view spoiler) [ Her implied message that animals have souls---a belief that goes against the humanocentrism of Judeo-Christian theology---will, for some, like me, be preaching to the choir. It will probably raise the ire and annoyance of others. So be it. (hide spoiler) ] This is my pick for Best Novel of 2013. ...more This isn't going to be a long review, because I don't want to ruin this book for anyone. Seriously, don't click on the title. Don't read any other reviews. Because all I knew going into We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves was that it was about some type of dysfunctional family. And really, that can mean anything. And it's so much better that way! I loved the tone of the book, the dry humour and the elegance of the writing, how it's entertaining but appropriately sad and serious at times. The n This isn't going to be a long review, because I don't want to ruin this book for anyone. Seriously, don't click on the title. Don't read any other reviews. Because all I knew going into We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves was that it was about some type of dysfunctional family. And really, that can mean anything. And it's so much better that way! I loved the tone of the book, the dry humour and the elegance of the writing, how it's entertaining but appropriately sad and serious at times. The narrator, Rosemary Cooke, isn't altogether likeable - she's a little bit odd, and rightfully so - and the structure is a little bit all over the place, but that was something I liked. Our quirky main character tells a quirky story with quirky form and it all comes together beautifully. (I don't mean quirky in a Wes Anderson kind of way, because it's not like that at all, but it's just a little bit different - in a good way!) It's an accurate depiction of childhood, and the foggy half memories that come back when you reflect on that childhood. It explores interesting scientific, psychological, and ethical issues without being preachy or overly technical. It makes you think, and it makes your heart hurt a little bit. It's really quite good - I think it's one of those stories that I've rated 4 stars and will come to appreciate more over time, rather than something that fades from memory and after several months should really be knocked down to a 3. ...more Just two stars for this one because for me it was just an okay book. No spoilers but the big reveal about Fern which is supposed to make the book more interesting just ruined it for me. I was expecting one thing and got another and it all became a bit too wacko for my taste. Rosemary was a very weak, unlikeable character and I just wanted to smack Harlow. And then for a big finale we discover that Rosemary's memory of events was not to be relied upon anyway. So basically it was all for nothing. 2.5* rounded up. I live under a rock. I do. Otherwise, I would have probably known what the big twist in this book was all about. But I didn't, and that was ok. However, even not knowing that there even is a twist didn't help me enjoy the book more than I did, and here is why: The beginning of the story was awesome - the MC, Rosemary Cooke, is inadvertently arrested when another woman goes mental on her ex-boyfriend in a cafeteria. What a great start to a story! Unfortunately, from there on the book 2.5* rounded up. I live under a rock. I do. Otherwise, I would have probably known what the big twist in this book was all about. But I didn't, and that was ok. However, even not knowing that there even is a twist didn't help me enjoy the book more than I did, and here is why: The beginning of the story was awesome - the MC, Rosemary Cooke, is inadvertently arrested when another woman goes mental on her ex-boyfriend in a cafeteria. What a great start to a story! Unfortunately, from there on the book lost momentum while Rosemary tells about her childhood and introduces us to her family, and how her and her family's lives have fallen apart after her sister and brother disappeared. There is also the \"big reveal\", after which the book continues in search for a conclusion. Fowler takes up an interesting story full of thoughtful observations and quirky dialogue, but I could not help feeling that the issues Fowler tried to address where over-written and drawn out to an extent where I lost interest. What's more, even my usual enthusiasm for animal welfare issues and philosophy near enough extinguished over the question what the book was trying to do. Did the interjections of literary and philosophical quotations try to aid the message of the book or were they meant to lend an air of validation to what would have otherwise been a perfectly good coming of age story or family saga? I know this book has received a lot of praise but it just did not do much for me. ...more oh come ON! I reached the big reveal that many reviewers (but not the publishers it seems) are trying so hard to avoid mentioning. The narrator thought some of us might be irritated by her coy refusal to wait so long before explaining her secret. She was right. Plot line and precocious babbling voice aren't enough. This reads like a YA novel. Next. I really wanted to like this but, sadly, I just couldn't. That's my loss, probably, as it's had plenty of positive reviews but, for what it's worth, here are the four things I disliked most about 'We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves': 1) There is way too much explaining, justifying, speechifying; it is more a polemic against animal research/ violence than a novel. While the first half (or the \"middle of the story\" ) of the book is good, The mysterious conflict which drove the protagonist's bro I really wanted to like this but, sadly, I just couldn't. That's my loss, probably, as it's had plenty of positive reviews but, for what it's worth, here are the four things I disliked most about 'We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves': 1) There is way too much explaining, justifying, speechifying; it is more a polemic against animal research/ violence than a novel. While the first half (or the \"middle of the story\" ) of the book is good, The mysterious conflict which drove the protagonist's brother to run away and sent her sister away is sufficiently vague to keep the reader in suspense. But after the big reveal, it becomes a psychodrama in which very little happens and there is no mystery. ( and we suffer through long diatribes about man's inhumanity to animals). 2) The \"surprise\" (if it is a surprise to anyone after reading reviews, descriptions, etc) here seems underwhelming - and not enough to base an entire story on - I kept thinking that it would get interesting and the real story would unfold but that was it - and the main character seems obsessed/neurotic having built her entire personality, current relationships and current situation around something that occurred when she was a very, very young child and would most likely not remember much if anything about it? 3)I began by loving the narrator, her style and her real, original outlook . When the great family tragedy was referred to, I braced myself for the stirring reveal. Then the author lost me... I felt tricked that Fern turned out to be what she was, and the enormous traitorous act by the narrator did not seem authentically weighty to me. 4) The main character was supposed to be \"quirky\" I suppose and I liked her initially, but eventually came off as annoying and obsessive- I kept thinking I had a friend like that I'd have to have a nice long \"let's move on about this unusual/sad but perhaps not as traumatic as you think it is issue\" and recommend therapy. Yes, it is well written and plays a fun trick with you. But I didn't empathize with any of the characters. It is a sad story that wasn't emotionally engaging or intriguing. No doubt it would be perfect for a high school literature class but if you read to be intrigued, to learn something new, to escape, well, I think there are other books out there that might better fill the gap. ...more This was another of those impulse buys in a bookshop, but a far better class of bookshop (Hatchards Piccadilly, the oldest bookshop in London, and an absolute marvel, especially in this day and age: a bookshop that sells books! Torture when you are travelling with hand luggage only, but I did post some books to myself before they threw me off the plane for being overweight) and a far better read too. Admittedly I was near to putting it back on the pile, and only the fact that I'd recently heard This was another of those impulse buys in a bookshop, but a far better class of bookshop (Hatchards Piccadilly, the oldest bookshop in London, and an absolute marvel, especially in this day and age: a bookshop that sells books! Torture when you are travelling with hand luggage only, but I did post some books to myself before they threw me off the plane for being overweight) and a far better read too. Admittedly I was near to putting it back on the pile, and only the fact that I'd recently heard it had made the Booker longlist changed my mind. I do wish she would drop the Joy in her name, though. I'm all for joy and and delight and fluffy kitten videos on MeTube, but I have this deep mistrust of lady writers who have the syllable Jo in their names. I never liked either Joanne Harris or Trollope, Jodi Picoult raises my hackles and makes me growl and as for the double whammy of JoJo Moyes, well, least said.... Karen is a perfectly good name. Anyway, I don't really know how to review this without giving away the best plot twist I've fallen for in years, and I wouldn't want to deprive anyone the pleasure of making that discovery for themselves. SO if you want to read this, avoid reviews as if they were an outbreak of ebola, lock yourself in a closed room and get to around half way through before you re-enter the world. (Can't be more specific I'm afraid, my copy has moved on to daughter number one). I was utterly beguiled by the voice, which came across as fresh and hip and youthful - astonished then I was to find that Ms Fowler is in her sixties. It's about family and loss and lack of communication, which sounds grindingly drab, I know, but it is shot through with precious metal wit and wry humour. A steal. We are quite beside ourselves. ...more (2.5) I seem to be a lone dissenting voice in the sea of praise for this novel. It is a quick, compelling read, but compared to other books on the subject, and even to other family stories generally, I thought it was light and even silly in places. At the same time, it\u2019s emotionally manipulative and relies too heavily on narrative trickery, namely a \u201ctwist\u201d I knew about before I began reading. Others will love it, I\u2019m sure, and it will foster plenty of debate as a book club selection. Still, it (2.5) I seem to be a lone dissenting voice in the sea of praise for this novel. It is a quick, compelling read, but compared to other books on the subject, and even to other family stories generally, I thought it was light and even silly in places. At the same time, it\u2019s emotionally manipulative and relies too heavily on narrative trickery, namely a \u201ctwist\u201d I knew about before I began reading. Others will love it, I\u2019m sure, and it will foster plenty of debate as a book club selection. Still, it was quite a shock to see this included on the 2014 Booker Prize shortlist; in my opinion, it did not belong there. [Two other novels that are more profound and less agenda-driven but still feature (view spoiler) [chimpanzees (hide spoiler) ] are: Unsaid by Neil Abramson and A Beautiful Truth by Colin McAdam (view spoiler) [(which has occasional chimp narration) (hide spoiler) ] .] (See my full review WITH SPOILERS at Nudge .) ...more Although this novel is assigned six parts to it, for me it is separated into two parts, before the big reveal and after. At first, I was bothered by the big reveal, and it annoyed me in the sense of having been tricked or snookered into believing that the book would be about one thing, and, then, a huge monkey-wrench (only the-already-have-read-it will truly appreciate that term) is tossed into the perceived story to come. That the reveal comes almost 100 pages into the book seemed particularly Although this novel is assigned six parts to it, for me it is separated into two parts, before the big reveal and after. At first, I was bothered by the big reveal, and it annoyed me in the sense of having been tricked or snookered into believing that the book would be about one thing, and, then, a huge monkey-wrench (only the-already-have-read-it will truly appreciate that term) is tossed into the perceived story to come. That the reveal comes almost 100 pages into the book seemed particularly unsporting. However, after getting over my initial shock and disgruntlement, I began to realize what all the hullabaloo over this novel was about. There are quite simply important issues at hand in Rosemary Cooke's narrative of her life, her unusual early childhood and her confused state from age five to early adulthood. Unfortunately, so much cannot be related in this review unless I fill it with spoilers, which I try diligently to avoid in reviews. At the heart of this story is Rosemary Cooke and her family, who experience the closest knit love of togetherness and the consuming grief of unexpected separations. As a loquacious child, Rosie's (Rosemary) father advised her to start in the middle of what she wanted to say, and so it is this very manner in which she proceeds to tell the story of her family from her perspective. It is only after she is in college that she begins to know and understand the perspectives of her other family members. So much is unspoken, too much that Rosie has had to fill in for herself, and not all of her version is accurate, due to missing information. Not to worry. Along with the great reveal are other reveals that plug the holes of faded and selective memory. Rosie might start in the middle, but the beginning and ending (up to a satisfactory point of ending) are disclosed, too. The title is well chosen, as the family is indeed completely beside themselves with a despondency that exists primarily because the deep voids of information are left unresolved for so long. I kept wanting to shout, just ask why or what happened. Alas, Rosie must take her own path (and sweet time) to lift herself out of the fog that encapsulates her. Without giving anything away, because it is to important for each reader to discover the hidden beauty and ugliness of the tale for him/her self, I need to at least remark on the fact that this book will most likely make you want to know more about experimentation by scientific institutions on animals, past and present, and the unconscionable treatment of animals by the food industries. It doesn't preach about the wrongs, but you may want to after reading it. Several quotes from the book concerning this issue of animal treatment made an impression on me. \" ... a number of states are considering laws that make the unauthorized photographing of what goes on in factory farms and slaughterhouses a felony.\" Unfortunately, I believe this legislation has already been enacted in some places. \u2014\u201cI\u2019m unclear on the definition of person the courts have been using. Something that sieves out dolphins but lets corporations slide on through.\u201d A thought provoking assessment. \u201cNo Utopia is Utopia for everyone.\u201d Ain't that the truth. So, Karen Joy Fowler, you have done yourself proud with this novel that touches our hearts and minds in a most profound way. Kudos to your excellent writing, which includes a richness of vocabulary last encountered by me in my earlier years of reading the apposite-worded Agatha Christie novels. I feel rather as if I sucked the pages of your story dry, in that I gleaned so much worth retaining. You, Ms. Fowler, have reached a level of distinction in your writing that demands attention, not to mention awards. ...more", "Title": "We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves"},
