{"Comments": "Nije lo\u0161 autor,<---M> i ne pi\u0161e lo\u0161e</---M>, ali smatram da nije za na\u0161e tr\u017ei\u0161te, tj. da je mala ciljna grupa za njega na ovim prostorima...<---F> Mo\u017eda je previ\u0161e \"ameri\u010dki\"</---F>... Ne znam ni sama... Ali da me je Algoritam konsultovao na vreme ovaj autor ne bi bio objavljen na srpski... dovoljno je hrvatsko izdanje... <---A>James Lee Burke</---A>'s sorrow and anger are almost palpable in this novel set during Katrina. I read a lot of it with tears in my eyes, because, more than any news story I've yet read, his novel brought back the loss of New Orleans and the overwhelming indifference exhibited by our government to the poor of New Orleans, while telling a gripping tale involving vigilantism, diamond smuggling, and murder. Once again, James Lee Burke captures his returning characters with honesty and depth. His plots are James Lee Burke's sorrow and anger are almost palpable in this novel set during Katrina. I read a lot of it with tears in my eyes, because, more than any news story I've yet read, his novel brought back the loss of New Orleans and the overwhelming indifference exhibited by our government to the poor of New Orleans, while telling a gripping tale involving vigilantism, diamond smuggling, and murder. Once again, James Lee Burke captures his returning characters with honesty and depth. His plots are, as someone noted, convoluted and sometimes almost require (<---B>and I've done this</---B>) a sheet of notepaper with character names and notes used as a bookmark. But, I think, in Burke's worldview, so is life -- convoluted and messy and with a lot of loose ends that don't quite get tied up. You want neatness and logic, read another mystery writer. I like Burke, as much for the paragraphs that leave you out of breath or close to tears as for the overall story. He's a terrific, terrific writer. ...more I have been reading all of the books in the <---C>Dave Robicheaux</---C> series since the beginning of the year. I have enjoyed them all. James Lee Burke 's prose is rich and lyrical. His characters are vivid and come alive and you become immersed in the story. Even if you have never been to New Orleans or Southern Louisiana you will come to know it, to taste the foods, hear the music, see the sunrise on the bayou, or listen to the the rain on a tin roof. I knew that this story dealt with Hurricane Katrina an I have been reading all of the books in the Dave Robicheaux series since the beginning of the year. I have enjoyed them all. James Lee Burke 's prose is rich and lyrical. His characters are vivid and come alive and you become immersed in the story. Even if you have never been to New Orleans or Southern Louisiana you will come to know it, to taste the foods, hear the music, see the sunrise on the bayou, or listen to the the rain on a tin roof. I knew that this story dealt with Hurricane Katrina and it's impact when I first started reading the series. After having read the first few books in the series I felt that only James Lee Burke could deliver a story centered around Katrina that was both evocative and heartfelt ( \"bodies wrapped tight like mummies in the gray and brown detritus left by the receding waters.\") He does not disappoint. You can feel the rage and pain. A junkie priest in a last heroic act tries to save parishioners trapped in the attic of a church. A group of looters hit a big score before two of them are shot. Was it self defense? Or murder? One of the victims of the looters is a mob boss. There are missing \"blood diamonds\" and a sadistic psychopath. The hunt for the diamonds and other looter is on. All while the storm turns the Big Easy into a lawless wasteland of apocalyptic proportions. It is a story of good and evil that is almost Biblical. The impact of Hurricane Katrina is still being felt and cannot be forgotten. Thanks to this story we are also provided with a fictional account of the people who struggled to survive in it's aftermath. ...more A Dave Robicheaux novel with Katrina as a major setting device, you\u2019d think it would be a sure thing fire-cracker of a read minimally and perhaps one of the genre busting breakouts. But no. This is lesser Burke. A convoluted plot that kills its own drama and requires extended periods of suspended disbelief just to keep the pages turning is its most annoying feature. Its most disappointing one is the description of Katrina pulled off the basic coverage of cable news channels and weekly news magaz A Dave Robicheaux novel with Katrina as a major setting device, you\u2019d think it would be a sure thing fire-cracker of a read minimally and perhaps one of the genre busting breakouts. But no. This is lesser Burke. A convoluted plot that kills its own drama and requires extended periods of suspended disbelief just to keep the pages turning is its most annoying feature. Its most disappointing one is the description of Katrina pulled off the basic coverage of cable news channels and weekly news magazines. If you had to guess you\u2019d guess that Burke was staying at his Missoula residence when Katrina went down and hasn\u2019t yet returned for a visit. There is resignation. There is a tepid, I saw it on CNN, outrage in the introduction and epilogue, and a bizarre ambivalence that runs through the plot and characters. But nothing of what you\u2019d expect from a hard-nosed, locally committed writer\u2014not the telling detail that no one else knows, not the institutional nightmare brought irrefutably to life by his mastery of people and place. It\u2019s just another book in a shades of gray crime series and one that too often makes little sense. Robicheaux is so anxious about his family\u2019s vulnerability to a nutcase killer who seems fixated on his daughter that he refuses to go to work. That makes sense. But a few pages later, when he should be even more anxious, he\u2019s decides to stay home and chill while his wife and daughter go off to a nearby college library (by this point you know it\u2019s because his daughter\u2014or wife\u2014is going to kill the killer so you are barely distracted by the illogical behavior of the hero, just turning the pages to get to the end). Burke lifts real events from Katrina for authenticity\u2019s sake and from other news stories (the Asian immigrant murdered in Detroit on Halloween) to help make the improbable seem probable but doesn\u2019t bestir himself too much at all to rescue this formulaic effort. ...more Burkes mystery takes place at the same time as Katrina and he does describe horrible events that went on there in the context of his book so we see people fighting over scarce resources and bodies floating in the waters and rescuers saving people etc and I have no real beef with his limited description of the catastrophe as it is part of the setting of the book, but its his mystery that I find faulty. I really think the book is overlong and the plot convoluted, unconvincing and generally full of Burkes mystery takes place at the same time as Katrina and he does describe horrible events that went on there in the context of his book so we see people fighting over scarce resources and bodies floating in the waters and rescuers saving people etc and I have no real beef with his limited description of the catastrophe as it is part of the setting of the book, but its his mystery that I find faulty. I really think the book is overlong and the plot convoluted, unconvincing and generally full of unsympathetic people. Basically three looters who are past rapists and a brother of one loot the home of a crook find diamonds but in the course of their leaving get shot by someone from a neighboring house. The innocent boy is killed and one of the rapists is paralyzed. The robbed crook tries to find the looters while a diabolical psyopath seeks to recover the diamonds. Robicheaux investigates the shooting of the innocent boy and gets ensnared in the search by the crooks and the psychopath to find the diamonds and the looters. Naturally the psycho goes after Robicheaux's daughter. The story takes way too long to get anywhere and (part of that is because Burke is trying to show that justice and all services grounded to a halt when New Orleans was destroyed but there are too many loose ends and the denouement takes too long to get there. Burke's description of the destruction of New Orleans is convincing, but he needed a better plot. ...more I have never been disappointed by a James Lee Burke novel, and this, most recent in the Dave Robicheaux series, is no exception. Robiicheaux is a wonderfully complex character, genuinely and consistently conflicted between his visceral urges and more socially acceptable behaviors. Robicheaux, a Sheriff of New Iberia, Louisiana, has a strong and deep sense of justice, and repeatedly champions the downtrodden, abused and abandoned, while meting out his own version of just desserts to the mean-spiri I have never been disappointed by a James Lee Burke novel, and this, most recent in the Dave Robicheaux series, is no exception. Robiicheaux is a wonderfully complex character, genuinely and consistently conflicted between his visceral urges and more socially acceptable behaviors. Robicheaux, a Sheriff of New Iberia, Louisiana, has a strong and deep sense of justice, and repeatedly champions the downtrodden, abused and abandoned, while meting out his own version of just desserts to the mean-spirited and predatory. His natural inclination is to meet violence with violence outside the law, and he continually struggles to balance his true nature with his professional obligations. Tin Roof Blowdown takes place in post-Katrina New Orleans, and Burke's descriptions of the devastation of both the inhabitants and the city are graphic and disturbing. Burke's prose is spare, yet from his minimalist descriptive phrases you can feel the stifling humidity, sense the impending danger, and smell the swamp -- you are there. He has an uncanny ability to decipher the motivations of a wide variety of characters from all levels of society in the Deep South. His books are moody and dark, but with redemptive themes. The universal conflict between Good and Evil is effectively contained within the soul of one man -- a modern-day knight in not-so-shining armor that you wish you knew. ...more \u201cblues por new orleans\u201d , no original \u201c<+++>The Tin Roof Blowdown</+++>\u201d, publicado em 2007 pelo norte-americano James Lee Burke (n. 1936) \u00e9 o 16\u00ba livro com o detective Dave Robicheaux. O furac\u00e3o Katrina est\u00e1 a devastar a costa do Lousiana\u2026 Nova Orle\u00e3es - depois do furac\u00e3o Katrina James Lee Burke \u201cmistura\u201d admiravelmente detalhes e descri\u00e7\u00f5es ver\u00eddicas das consequ\u00eancias e do rescaldo do furac\u00e3o Katrina com uma narrativa ficcional criminal/policial dominada por duas subtramas \u2013 a hist\u00f3ria do padre Jude LeBlanc \u201cblues por new orleans\u201d , no original \u201c<+++>The Tin Roof Blowdown</+++>\u201d, publicado em 2007 pelo norte-americano James Lee Burke (n. 1936) \u00e9 o 16\u00ba livro com o detective Dave Robicheaux. O furac\u00e3o Katrina est\u00e1 a devastar a costa do Lousiana\u2026 Nova Orle\u00e3es - depois do furac\u00e3o Katrina James Lee Burke \u201cmistura\u201d admiravelmente detalhes e descri\u00e7\u00f5es ver\u00eddicas das consequ\u00eancias e do rescaldo do furac\u00e3o Katrina com uma narrativa ficcional criminal/policial dominada por duas subtramas \u2013 a hist\u00f3ria do padre Jude LeBlanc (com cancro da pr\u00f3stata e viciado em drogas) e a investiga\u00e7\u00e3o a uma quadrilha de assaltantes \u201cnegros\u201d (Andr\u00e9 Rochon e o sobrinho Kevin e os irm\u00e3os Melancon, Bertrand e Eddy). Dave Robicheaux, detective na par\u00f3quia de New Iberia, \u00e9 enviado de emerg\u00eancia para a vizinha Nova Orle\u00e3es, com o intuito de \u201ctentar\u201d manter a apar\u00eancia da ordem e da lei, num territ\u00f3rio devastado, dominado por ladr\u00f5es e saqueadores oportunistas, numa zona fragmentada econ\u00f3mica e racialmente. \u201cblues por new orleans\u201d \u00e9 muito mais do que um excelente romance policial; \u00e9 um magn\u00edfico trabalho liter\u00e1rio de profundo valor hist\u00f3rico sobre a destrui\u00e7\u00e3o de uma das zonas mais bonitas e emblem\u00e1ticas da costa do Louisiana, particularmente a cidade de Nova Orle\u00e3es, onde sucessivos anos de inc\u00faria pol\u00edtica e econ\u00f3mica, na manuten\u00e7\u00e3o do sistema de diques e dos canais \u201cbayous\u201d, que funcionam como barreiras naturais \u00e0 propaga\u00e7\u00e3o das cat\u00e1strofes naturais, furac\u00f5es, c\u00edclicas na zona do Golfo do M\u00e9xico - colapsaram e sobre o falhan\u00e7o institucional de organiza\u00e7\u00f5es locais e federais, que se revelaram incapazes de prever a dimens\u00e3o da cat\u00e1strofe e de planearem e organizarem as opera\u00e7\u00f5es de busca e salvamento. James Lee Burke constr\u00f3i uma narrativa dominada por personagens amb\u00edguas \u2013 Dave Robicheaux e o seu amigo Clete Purcel; e o mafioso e vingativo Sidney Kovick, florista de profiss\u00e3o, e o ladr\u00e3o e violador Bertrand Melancon - homens expostos \u00e0 rejei\u00e7\u00e3o e \u00e0 crueldade, numa mistura explosiva de comportamentos imprevis\u00edveis, mafiosos e \u201cpequenos\u201d ladr\u00f5es, violadores e sociopatas, mas em que cada um \u00e0 sua maneira procura a reden\u00e7\u00e3o, expiando os seus pecados e as suas amarguras, revelando um amor incondicional pela \u201csua\u201d fam\u00edlia. \u201cblues por new orleans\u201d \u00e9 um \u201cverdadeiro\u201d e genu\u00edno policial, com di\u00e1logos intensos e uma escrita cinematogr\u00e1fica \u2013 muito, muito bom\u2026 Nota : Traduzir \"The Tin Roof Blowdown\" para \"blues por new orleans\" n\u00e3o faz sentido. Revela-se enganador, porque induz em erro, misturando o New Orleans blues, um subg\u00e9nero musical, com o cen\u00e1rio de New Orleans - a m\u00fasica n\u00e3o tem nenhuma relev\u00e2ncia no enredo. No livro aparece sempre \"Nova Orle\u00e3es\" n\u00e3o se justificando que no t\u00edtulo apare\u00e7a \"New Orleans\". \"Aquela noite estava cheia de imagens surreais, que suspeito terem origem mais no inconsciente do que na mente consciente. As pessoas tinham o aspecto e comportavam-se como o fazem nos nossos sonhos - n\u00e3o completamente reais, os seus corpos iridescentes com suor, a roupa em farrapos, como criaturas a viver os seus destinos numa paisagem lunar.\" (P\u00e1g. 52) \"O contraste entre a normalidade do meu trabalho na par\u00f3quia de New Iberia e os sete dias que passara em Nova Orle\u00e3es era como a diferen\u00e7a entre o vigor e a confian\u00e7a da juventude e a condi\u00e7\u00e3o mental de um homem arbitrariamente afligido por uma doen\u00e7a fatal.\" (P\u00e1g. 91) ...more These books, which I listen to on tape, are like sedatives. Dave Robicheaux is a dark conflicted hero. He is the male version of \"the hooker with a heart of gold\" stereotype. James Lee Burk has always painted very vivid and poignant pictures of New Orleans and the area surrounding it. This is his first novel post hurricane, and you can just feel his heart seizing as he writes a fictional account of Katrina and the aftermath. I know this book type isn't for everyone. I don't know if the fact that I These books, which I listen to on tape, are like sedatives. Dave Robicheaux is a dark conflicted hero. He is the male version of \"the hooker with a heart of gold\" stereotype. James Lee Burk has always painted very vivid and poignant pictures of New Orleans and the area surrounding it. This is his first novel post hurricane, and you can just feel his heart seizing as he writes a fictional account of Katrina and the aftermath. I know this book type isn't for everyone. I don't know if the fact that I have read all his other Robicheaux Novels and have grown fond of the characters makes me feel differently, but what a beautiful poem this book is to the struggle between good and evil. When he talks about that I wondered for a moment if it was way over the top, and then I realized in some very basic way I felt the same. ...more Can I give this one TEN STARS? ... I love James Lee Burke's writing, and I consider him THE BEST writer working today (Shakespeare and Hawthorne are dead.) I used to think HEARTWOOD was truly his best book to date, but this, pardon the expression, blows everything he's written out of the water. It is a masterpiece for its story, for its description (especially of the devastation), for its honest and unflinching view of humanity, and for the sheer power and scope of storytelling at its ABSOLUTE B Can I give this one TEN STARS? ... I love James Lee Burke's writing, and I consider him THE BEST writer working today (Shakespeare and Hawthorne are dead.) I used to think HEARTWOOD was truly his best book to date, but this, pardon the expression, blows everything he's written out of the water. It is a masterpiece for its story, for its description (especially of the devastation), for its honest and unflinching view of humanity, and for the sheer power and scope of storytelling at its ABSOLUTE BEST! Anyone not reading Burke should correct that oversight IMMEDIATELY! ...more So much more than a police procedural! This is James Lee Burke's elegiac for America in the aftermath of Katrina. So much rage and pain, but also a great story and characters who are trying to carry on despite the disaster, despite finding they didn't live in the country they had thought. The writing is so much better, the ideas so far surpass what you would find in an average detective mystery, that James Lee Burke should be up for literary prizes at the same time he writes a great page-turning So much more than a police procedural! This is James Lee Burke's elegiac for America in the aftermath of Katrina. So much rage and pain, but also a great story and characters who are trying to carry on despite the disaster, despite finding they didn't live in the country they had thought. The writing is so much better, the ideas so far surpass what you would find in an average detective mystery, that James Lee Burke should be up for literary prizes at the same time he writes a great page-turning whodunnit. ...more Booklist review (I can't say it better) \"I wanted to wake to the great, gold-green, sun-spangled promise of the South Louisiana in which I had grown up. I didn't want to be part of the history taking place in our state.\" That sentence wouldn't be out of place in any of Burke's Dave Robicheaux novels, all of which have been distinguished by their elegiac tone, but it's only fitting that it should appear in his latest, a heartfelt post-Katrina ode to a lost New Orleans and a lost world. In a sense Booklist review (I can't say it better) \"I wanted to wake to the great, gold-green, sun-spangled promise of the South Louisiana in which I had grown up. I didn't want to be part of the history taking place in our state.\" That sentence wouldn't be out of place in any of Burke's Dave Robicheaux novels, all of which have been distinguished by their elegiac tone, but it's only fitting that it should appear in his latest, a heartfelt post-Katrina ode to a lost New Orleans and a lost world. In a sense, Dave Robicheaux, Burke's Cajun detective, whose heart is in the past and whose eyes are on the horizon, expecting trouble, has always been anticipating Katrina--or at least some form of cataclysm--as he has watched his world spin further and further out of control. But Katrina was no fictional event, and Burke writes about its aftermath as vividly and powerfully as any nonfiction chronicler. The plot itself, the investigation of the murder of two black men in the ninth ward, hinges on familiar Burke tropes--the powerless caught in a web of circumstance; surprising acts of nobility from the least likely people; unfathomable evil prompting eruptions of Robicheaux's thinly suppressed rage--but the novel's power comes from the way it explores the tragedy of Katrina in a way that is perfectly in tune with the series, a kind of perfect storm brought together by the confluence of fictional and nonfictional realms. Bill Ott ...more I'm not at all sure I really got what Hurricane Katrina did to New Orleans until I read this book. Sometimes fiction, at least Burke's fiction, is far more evocative than all the news reports, specials and other stuff in the media. That said, this is the story of how series hero, Dave Robicheaux, is dragged into the chaos following the disaster and is swallowed up in the aftermath of investigating a number of killings. The plot is typical of the series in that it bounces from a first person narra I'm not at all sure I really got what Hurricane Katrina did to New Orleans until I read this book. Sometimes fiction, at least Burke's fiction, is far more evocative than all the news reports, specials and other stuff in the media. That said, this is the story of how series hero, Dave Robicheaux, is dragged into the chaos following the disaster and is swallowed up in the aftermath of investigating a number of killings. The plot is typical of the series in that it bounces from a first person narrative by Robicheaux to a description of what's happening to the other major characters. It's done in such a way, though, that the reader never loses track of what's going on. As always, the characters, both major and minor, are not only real but also fascinating in some way or other. The main villain is a truly frightening psychotic who terrorizes Robicheaux and his family just by being in the neighborhood. The story unfolds in sometimes surprising ways, leaving the reader guessing as to what will happen next. The ending is satisfying without being too neat. The epilogue also serves as an epitaph for the New Orleans we may never see again. Well done Mr. Burke, another winner! ...more This is the second Burke novel I've read, and I'm starting to really appreciate his style: passionately moral and teeth-grindingly realistic. Larger than life. For some reason, this is the time of year that I like to read murder mysteries. This was an extremely satifying and intelligent shoot-'em-up mystery story. There was a strong good v. evil conflict and a big tangled mess of characters in a variety of colors and flavors. Loved it. The mess of characters doesn't get perfectly organized and ex This is the second Burke novel I've read, and I'm starting to really appreciate his style: passionately moral and teeth-grindingly realistic. Larger than life. For some reason, this is the time of year that I like to read murder mysteries. This was an extremely satifying and intelligent shoot-'em-up mystery story. There was a strong good v. evil conflict and a big tangled mess of characters in a variety of colors and flavors. Loved it. The mess of characters doesn't get perfectly organized and explained by the end, but that didn't bother me too much. This book is not for the faint of heart. It takes place in the days during and after Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans, and there's some really heavy stuff about the horrifying things that happened to the people who couldn't get out of the city in time. There is also disturbing material about war, rape, torture, and abuse. There are also some beautiful material about redemption and optimism. ...more I could hardly watch the news coverage of Katrina. It was too cruel and awful and I couldn't do anything to help. I wanted to participate in the pet rescue, but someone would have ended up rescuing me before it was over. Reading Jim Burke's book brings it all back and I have a love-hate relationahip with the reading experience. I dread going into that world again, but I'm also fascinated by it and can hardly put it down. Robicheax provides the voice for all those enraged by a government that is I could hardly watch the news coverage of Katrina. It was too cruel and awful and I couldn't do anything to help. I wanted to participate in the pet rescue, but someone would have ended up rescuing me before it was over. Reading Jim Burke's book brings it all back and I have a love-hate relationahip with the reading experience. I dread going into that world again, but I'm also fascinated by it and can hardly put it down. Robicheax provides the voice for all those enraged by a government that is all style and no substance and for all those undone by the forces of nature. I can hear Jim Burke's ironic voice throughout. ...more First...Will Patton IS Dave Robicheaux...and Clete Purcell...and Helen Swallow. He makes Mr. Burke's rich prose an intimate conversation with the reader. I am all about the audio for these books. Second...prepare to be haunted for days, even weeks, by the pain, sadness and loss in these words. Only someone who has grown with and loved New Orleans - and New Iberia - as much as Mr. Burke could have written this book. Let me start by saying that this book epitomizes the reason I try to avoid reading series books. The suspense is simply gone. Look, the detective/hero, his wife, his daughter, and his best friend in this book all walk around with invisible shields. They need to appear in the next installment, so nothing anyone does is ever going to kill them. SPOILER ALERT! SPOILER ALERT! SPOILER ALERT! Hence, when the evil mercenary with the seventh-degree black belt goes off to shoot one of them, he suddenly can Let me start by saying that this book epitomizes the reason I try to avoid reading series books. The suspense is simply gone. Look, the detective/hero, his wife, his daughter, and his best friend in this book all walk around with invisible shields. They need to appear in the next installment, so nothing anyone does is ever going to kill them. SPOILER ALERT! SPOILER ALERT! SPOILER ALERT! Hence, when the evil mercenary with the seventh-degree black belt goes off to shoot one of them, he suddenly can't seem to hit the broad side of a barn. When he gets in a fight with one, it gets hard to care. Even worse, Burke creates an incredibly interesting sociopath named Ronald who goes through the novel looking like a cross between Michael Jackson and Charles Manson. The reader seldom sees him in action but we are assured he is one dangerous dude. And when we do see Ronald in action... well, a girl beats him up, he gets a gun taken away from him, his car gets smashed. This guy is supposed to be the ultimate evil in the book and he's actually a bit more on the sympathetic side. He's scary, but nothing ever works for him. The book itself feels a bit like a sham, like a story Burke through together so he could launch into a political diatribe about how the government and especially the presidency betrayed his beloved New Orleans. Sadly, his memory seems a bit selective at times. He remembers well that Bush never came to visit the destruction but he does not remember that Bush offered to call in the national guard and was turned away by the governor or Louisiana. I always find it sad when a perfectly good novel or movie is ruined by authors who are more interested in writing a political rant than a story. My last complaint about The Tin Roof Blowdown is that it has more coincidences than a Charles Dickens library. Let's start with Betran, the street hood who: 1) Raped Otis's daughter; 2) Killed Dave's missing priest; 3) Hit Cletis with his car; and 4) Vandalized Sidney's house and stole his diamonds... and all in the course of a week! Man, talk about Recidivism! If that guy had died in the hurricane, New Orleans might have become one of the safest cities in the United States. Okay, now that you have survived my rant, let's get my rave. Despite these problems, I gave The Tin Roof Blowdown three stars because James Lee Burke has a wonderful way with words. Okay, yes, sometimes he has too much of a wonderful way with words and he is overly anxious to unload both barrels to show the reader just how smart he is; but he still has a marvelous facility with analogy, description, ambiance, and more. His characters are fully realized and three-dimensional. His model of New Orleans is practically alive. There were times when I thought I might give this book five stars just based on the author's more than obvious talent; and despite my final disappointment, I will make a point of reading another Burke novel to see if perhaps I like him better when he is not stomping on his political angst. ...more James Lee Burke's \"Dave Robicheaux\" books follow a fairly similar formula. I've read most of them, so I know. Here's what you can expect: 1) There will be multiple grisly deaths. 2) Dave will reflect on his time in Vietnam and his time as an alcoholic. 3) Dave's old partner, Clete Purcel, will stumble through the case like a wet elephant, trying to do good and silence his inner torment. 4) There will be at least one mobster...some are colorful...some are dangerous...most are both. 5) All the murders D James Lee Burke's \"Dave Robicheaux\" books follow a fairly similar formula. I've read most of them, so I know. Here's what you can expect: 1) There will be multiple grisly deaths. 2) Dave will reflect on his time in Vietnam and his time as an alcoholic. 3) Dave's old partner, Clete Purcel, will stumble through the case like a wet elephant, trying to do good and silence his inner torment. 4) There will be at least one mobster...some are colorful...some are dangerous...most are both. 5) All the murders Dave is investigating will tie together in some tangential way. 6) Dave's family will be in danger from the current case(s). 7) There will be one or two free range sociopaths getting involved and harming innocents. 8) Dave will bend the letter of the law to uphold the spirit of the law. 9) Dave will get in some sort of trouble with his boss or the FBI or another law enforcement agency. 10) There will be at least one big shootout, possibly more. There are more, but you get the idea. All that being said, Burke's books are usually quite enjoyable. I've also enjoyed the films they've made of them (even if critics did not). \"The Tin Roof Blowdown,\" however, is a chore to get into. Why? Burke spends roughly the first quarter of the book detailing the destruction of New Orleans by Hurricane Katrina. The details are nauseating and frequent and very depressing. I understand that he's trying to use facts to set a mood, and that he may feel a need to educate the uninformed, but I felt Burke was piling it on a bit thick about Katrina--more than was required to set up his various plotlines (which I won't spoil here). Eventually, if you can slog through the Katrina portion of the book, Burke settles down into his usual mode of storytelling. And it becomes a more conventional genre detective thriller. The first portion of the book is good writing, though it's about subject matter not all will appreciate finding when looking for an entertaining detective story. ...more Burke centers this complex story around the tragedy of hurricane Katrina. When I bought the book, I was a bit reluctant, wondering how in the world he could take such haunting images as were created by the aftermath of that killer storm, and diminish them enough to allow us to focus on the foibles of his characters. Well, James Lee Burke is the quintessential wordsmith. Not only does he use his words well, he uses them with emotion that tells us he has lived in dark places. Either that, or he dr Burke centers this complex story around the tragedy of hurricane Katrina. When I bought the book, I was a bit reluctant, wondering how in the world he could take such haunting images as were created by the aftermath of that killer storm, and diminish them enough to allow us to focus on the foibles of his characters. Well, James Lee Burke is the quintessential wordsmith. Not only does he use his words well, he uses them with emotion that tells us he has lived in dark places. Either that, or he dreams there. I once listened to an interview of Steven King, where he revealed that his inspiration for his writing came often from his dreams, not much from his life experiences. Who knows with James Lee Burke? His writing is rich, gritty, often nastalgic and violent as our world can be. Like God, of whom he occasionally speaks, he does have a great sense of humor in the midst of the chaos. This book is one of his best. ...more Oh lordy yes! Detective Dave Robicheaux and Hurricane Katrina...what better combination of natural forces could be better calculated to lay waste the Big Easy? James Lee Burke continues his stellar writing in yet another Robicheaux novel. If you've ever read any of Burke's writings, I'm preaching to the choir. If you haven't, you pitiful wretch, rectify the situation immediately and get thee to a bookery! This man writes with more power and pain than anyone I know of. He is simply our best writer Oh lordy yes! Detective Dave Robicheaux and Hurricane Katrina...what better combination of natural forces could be better calculated to lay waste the Big Easy? James Lee Burke continues his stellar writing in yet another Robicheaux novel. If you've ever read any of Burke's writings, I'm preaching to the choir. If you haven't, you pitiful wretch, rectify the situation immediately and get thee to a bookery! This man writes with more power and pain than anyone I know of. He is simply our best writer of fiction today. I cannot recommend his work more highly. The best thing to tell you is there are now 16 books in this series! ...more This is one of my favorite James Lee Burke novels. He does a wonderful job of chronicling the post-Katrina landscape, and Dave Robicheaux is the perfect narrator to guide us through the dark, murky aftermath of Katrina's New Orleans. The story and characters are a perfect reflection of a city in shambles. And it's not the mystery that grabs you as much as it is the atmospheric landscape with it's desperate characters, all scrambling to take advantage of the chaotic aftermath. James Lee Burke is t This is one of my favorite James Lee Burke novels. He does a wonderful job of chronicling the post-Katrina landscape, and Dave Robicheaux is the perfect narrator to guide us through the dark, murky aftermath of Katrina's New Orleans. The story and characters are a perfect reflection of a city in shambles. And it's not the mystery that grabs you as much as it is the atmospheric landscape with it's desperate characters, all scrambling to take advantage of the chaotic aftermath. James Lee Burke is the finest detective/mystery writer alive today. Just my opinion. ...more This continues the series of books dedicated to the experiences of Dave Robicheaux a New Orleans sheriff's department detective. All of these books are great. They are not just cop stories. They give great feeling and flavor of life in New Orleans. Burke is a student of the human condition and really brings empathy to good guys and bad guys alike. In fact, you come out of these books feeling that there is no such thing as a truly good or bad person. This book is about the days following Katrina. This continues the series of books dedicated to the experiences of Dave Robicheaux a New Orleans sheriff's department detective. All of these books are great. They are not just cop stories. They give great feeling and flavor of life in New Orleans. Burke is a student of the human condition and really brings empathy to good guys and bad guys alike. In fact, you come out of these books feeling that there is no such thing as a truly good or bad person. This book is about the days following Katrina. If even half of it is true, it describes on of the worst events in our entire history. ...more What a disappointment. I had not read Burke's work before, but he is a highly regarded noir writer, and I had it on good authority that this was one of his best novels. Set in New Orleans during and after Hurricane Katrina, it seemed to have a lot of dramatic potential. What a colossal waste of time this book was. I wanted to give it up, but I kept thinking that something would improve, and then I reached the point at which I just wanted to find out the mystery. I won't say Burke is a bad writer. What a disappointment. I had not read Burke's work before, but he is a highly regarded noir writer, and I had it on good authority that this was one of his best novels. Set in New Orleans during and after Hurricane Katrina, it seemed to have a lot of dramatic potential. What a colossal waste of time this book was. I wanted to give it up, but I kept thinking that something would improve, and then I reached the point at which I just wanted to find out the mystery. I won't say Burke is a bad writer. I have not read his other work, so it's hard to judge. But I will say that this book is badly written. Much of it amounts to a diatribe against many of the parties responsible for New Orleans' ordeal after Katrina. Fair enough, but the rest of the book is devoid of interest, and Burke's penchant for ridiculous similes and metaphors is distracting. He over-writes, big time. One of my college professors observed that epic simile brings extraordinary events to life by describing them with ideas and imagery familiar to an ordinary person--Homer's evocation of a person holding puppies when he describes the cyclops taking up two of his men, for example. Modern simile does just the opposite: it couches the familiar in extraordinary terms. Drama is lent to ordinary events through simile and metaphor. Mothers don't scold their children, they \"roar\" at them. In any case, in \"The Tin Roof Blowdown\", Burke suffers from a particularly acute simile disorder. Melodrama isn't enough for him. He has to describe things in nonsensical terms. A few choice examples: \"For no demonstrable reason, I felt a sense of peace, as though I had been invited to a war but at the last moment had decided not to attend.\" I imagine that not going to war does give one a sense of peace. It's just not the most clever or elegant way to describe such a feeling. Indeed, it sounds more like an excerpt from a conversation between two stoners. \"The feeling you experience is like someone stripping off your skin.\" Ah, yes, I know that feeling well. I just had my skin stripped off the other day. And my personal favorite... \"In my rearview mirror I saw her toe at the grass, her thumbs still hooked in her jeans, like a teenage girl who had just lost something of value.\" Aside from the absurdity of seeing a \"toe at the grass\" in your rearview mirror, I'm not sure whether to laugh or cry (or do both) at the image of a \"teenage girl who had just lost something of value\". What does that mean? What is special about a teenage girl losing something of value, as opposed to an 8 year old boy, or a 85 year old man, or a 34 year old guy wasting his time writing this review? This sentence is utterly devoid of information. The best that could be said of it is that it's all style, no substance. But it doesn't even meet that standard. The imagery might impress readers who don't know better. Burke is very novel in his descriptions, and many readers confuse novelty with intelligence or quality. This is a very bad book. Plot, character, style... all lacking. Only in the descriptions of the city during and after the storm does Burke begin to break free of the literary pretension that weighs down the rest of the narrative. ...more This Dave Robicheaux novel was better than most. Burke writes with a crisp style and you can almost feel the humidity of New Orleans as you read. This time, Burke attempts to sermonize about some of the terrible events that occured during Hurricane Katrina. He almost seems to attempt to justify the shooting of looters- some of which was likely a proper use of force while most of it was likely open season on young blacks. Burke actually manages to weave an actual mystery and even surprise me in t This Dave Robicheaux novel was better than most. Burke writes with a crisp style and you can almost feel the humidity of New Orleans as you read. This time, Burke attempts to sermonize about some of the terrible events that occured during Hurricane Katrina. He almost seems to attempt to justify the shooting of looters- some of which was likely a proper use of force while most of it was likely open season on young blacks. Burke actually manages to weave an actual mystery and even surprise me in this novel. Still, I continue to be bothered by the discussion of vengeance and the blustering threats exchanged between good guys and bad guys over and over again. At least this time, Robicheaux isn't staring the bad guy in the eyes everytime and telling him how he's going to smoke him if he take a particular action. Oh, he does some of it, just not through the whole book. The story deals with looters and shooters in New Orleans. In the midst some important stuff gets stolen, and a rape get avenged. Enter the nasty characters to capitalize on the suffering of others. There are some quotes that I want to share from the novel that provide food for thought... From the conclusion of the novel, the viewpoint of the lead character as he discusses the terrible things that occured in New Orleans. \"New Orleans was systematically destroyed and that destruction began in the early 1980's with the deliberate reduction by half of the federal funding to the city and the simultaneous introduction of crack cocaine into the welfare projects. The failure to repair the levees before Katrina and the abandonment of tens of thousands of people to their fate in the aftermath have causes that I'll let others sort out. But in my view the irrevocable fact remains that we saw an American city turned into Baghdad on the southern rim of the United States. If we have a precedent in our history for what happened in New Orleans, it's lost on me.\" The second on regards his contemplation of violence for vengeance: \"Supposedly we are a Christian society, or at least one founded by Christians. According to our self-manufactured mythos, we revere Jesus and Mother Teresa and Saint Francis of Assisi. But I think the truth is otherwise. When we feel collectively threatened, or when we are collectively injured, we want the Earp brothers and Doc Holliday on the job and we want the bad guys smoked, dried, fried, and plowed under with bulldozers.\" One of Burke's better efforts, in my opinion. ...more haven't finished this yet but i find this book pretty amazing. i love its noirness, its alcohol-fueled duskiness/dustiness/twilightness/undergroundness. the simmering violence. the simmering heat. the rage (the acknowledgment of the rage is terrific: too bad there is no investigation of female rage as well). the despair. the hanging in there. the chaos. the descent into hell. the each man for himself. the androgynous women. the no-nonsense. the death vibes. the rotten smells. the dirty bodies. t haven't finished this yet but i find this book pretty amazing. i love its noirness, its alcohol-fueled duskiness/dustiness/twilightness/undergroundness. the simmering violence. the simmering heat. the rage (the acknowledgment of the rage is terrific: too bad there is no investigation of female rage as well). the despair. the hanging in there. the chaos. the descent into hell. the each man for himself. the androgynous women. the no-nonsense. the death vibes. the rotten smells. the dirty bodies. the bloated bodies. the end-of-days drunkenness. the fumes. the sunsets. the nights of the soul. the chanciness of rotten luck. the rot. the high-density language. the hodgepodginess of the plot. the compactness of the plot. the masses of detritus. the filthy water. the home cooked meals. the fatherly love. i'm a bit frustrated but the fact that all the \"pukes\" are black and there are no black characters who are less than pukes. what's with that? new orleans has no black cops? ***** finished. i wish i hadn't. i am comforted by the fact that JLB has written a ton of books. but this one, wow, really fine. maybe less violence would have been good. less endorsement of the american vigilante approach to justice. but then the book is set in baghdad, sort of. do you know what i wish? i wish that graphic depictions of violence against women were forever banned (self-censored) from literature, and that violence against women were never again used by men to justify their self-righteous thirst for other men's blood. seriously, fuck this shit. but this book deals with this in an intelligent way. apart from one scene (involving dave robicheaux), brutal violence is dealt with with compassion, and understanding of social circumstances, and always always always with a keen awareness of the massive violence perpetrated by the authorities against the people of new orleans that lies in the background of it all. still, here's to an end to all sorts of violence. here's to peace. ...more I\u2019ve read a few of Burke\u2019s previous books but I had a hard time with The Tin Roof Blowdown. Some of the lyrical prose for which Burke is known is present, and the dialogue is often sharp, but I nearly gave up after the first thirty pages. It felt to me as if two books had been clunked together \u2013 one a political commentary on Katrina and its aftermath (particularly in the first 60 pages or so), the other a police procedural. Rather than letting the story do the commentary, Burke has whole paragra I\u2019ve read a few of Burke\u2019s previous books but I had a hard time with The Tin Roof Blowdown. Some of the lyrical prose for which Burke is known is present, and the dialogue is often sharp, but I nearly gave up after the first thirty pages. It felt to me as if two books had been clunked together \u2013 one a political commentary on Katrina and its aftermath (particularly in the first 60 pages or so), the other a police procedural. Rather than letting the story do the commentary, Burke has whole paragraphs effectively setting out his views on the catastrophe and who was responsible for the mayhem that followed. It simply didn\u2019t work for me. My sense is that Burke let his personal anger and frustration bubble over into the text at the story\u2019s expense. Added to that the story itself stretched reality to breaking point, with multiple sub-plots that conveniently overlap and opportune lapses in law enforcement procedure. I generally don\u2019t mind that in thrillers, but this time out I just couldn\u2019t buy into it. Robicheaux uses the law when it suits and takes it into his own hands the rest of the time, seemingly without any penalty. The fact that Robicheaux\u2019s still alive at this stage given he\u2019s regularly up to his neck in dramatic cases that always seem to involve violence directed at him and his family is a miracle. I\u2019ve enjoyed the past books, but The Tin Roof Blowdown was, for me, a let down. ...more Burke's Tin Roof Blowdown weaves crime throughout the horrific pictures of New Orleans after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita had breached levees and basically destroyed much of the town. Burke's pictures of the loss of life, unbelievable damage to homes and infrastructure, the ineptitude of local and particularly national agencies, law enforcement leave me slack-jawed in unbelief. He gives a picture we are only used to associating with third world countries. Burke's style is inimitable conjuring a p Burke's Tin Roof Blowdown weaves crime throughout the horrific pictures of New Orleans after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita had breached levees and basically destroyed much of the town. Burke's pictures of the loss of life, unbelievable damage to homes and infrastructure, the ineptitude of local and particularly national agencies, law enforcement leave me slack-jawed in unbelief. He gives a picture we are only used to associating with third world countries. Burke's style is inimitable conjuring a picture in our minds that is quite amazing. His characterization is also well done with many characters being very quirky. The main protagonist, Dave Robicheaux, is likeable but very human. I'm less impressed by the crimes woven through the story, although the desperation of many and the venality of drug lords cannot be denied. Let me give an example of his prose: Dave Robicheaux describes why he loves his family and where he lives in New Iberia. \"I wanted to wake in the morning to the smell of coffee and moldy pecan husks in the yard and camellia bushes dripping with dew and the fecund odor of fish spawning in the bayou. I wanted to wake to the great gold-green, sun-spangled promise of the South Louisiana in which I had grown up. I didn't want to be part of the history taking place in our state.\" p. 80. ...more I wanted to like this book. I tried. Hard. On every page I searched and made a good faith effort. My wife would ask me, \"How do you like that book?\" I kept saying. \"I don't know yet.\" I've finally made up my mind. The book is not for me. Initially, I found the near constant whining about how the federal government did a lousy job after the Katrina disaster to be tiresome and grating. Didn't the inhabitants of New Orleans have any responsibility for their own condition and recovery? (Check out th I wanted to like this book. I tried. Hard. On every page I searched and made a good faith effort. My wife would ask me, \"How do you like that book?\" I kept saying. \"I don't know yet.\" I've finally made up my mind. The book is not for me. Initially, I found the near constant whining about how the federal government did a lousy job after the Katrina disaster to be tiresome and grating. Didn't the inhabitants of New Orleans have any responsibility for their own condition and recovery? (Check out the federal aid San Francisco got in 1906. Nada. Zero. Zip. Back on their feet in nine months.) Slowly it dawned on me that this low and mournful wail was Burke's real reason for writing the book. It better have been, because the plot was a mash up of improbable twists and coincidences carried out by monsters and saints. I built up my speed reading skills skimming over Dave's deep reflections on life. Perhaps this was the wrong introduction to Burke's work, but I'm not likely to give him a second chance. ...more I don't know if Burke was in Louisiana right after (even during) Katrina, but his descriptions ring true; he goes beyond the media hype (and stereotype) that the nation saw, deals with the abandonment of the poor, the unimaginably horrid situation, and more. I'm not finished with the novel, so can't speak to the story itself. No matter. This is by far my favorite of Burke's novels. Mind you, much of it is not easy to read or fun, but it is powerful. On a different note, Burke has a way with words I don't know if Burke was in Louisiana right after (even during) Katrina, but his descriptions ring true; he goes beyond the media hype (and stereotype) that the nation saw, deals with the abandonment of the poor, the unimaginably horrid situation, and more. I'm not finished with the novel, so can't speak to the story itself. No matter. This is by far my favorite of Burke's novels. Mind you, much of it is not easy to read or fun, but it is powerful. On a different note, Burke has a way with words. Some of his dialogue is almost over the top, in true \"hard boiled\" tradition, but only almost. I've heard folks talk as his characters to; Burke must pay attention to and use everything he hears. Not all of Burke's main characters, his \"good guys\" are likeable, not by a long-shot. I could easily read his books without a Clete in them. But, hey, not all \"good guys\" are likeable, are they? ...more James Lee Burke's sixteenth novel in the Dave Robicheaux series opens as Hurricane Katrina churns its way through the Gulf, homing in on its target of New Orleans. In The Tin Roof Blowdown, New Iberia police detective Dave Robicheaux finds himself in the heart of the Hurricane Katrina disaster when his department is temporarily assigned to rescue and response duty in the Big Easy. Burke once again assembles a large cast of characters whose lives inevitably collide, causing chaos and death. This m James Lee Burke's sixteenth novel in the Dave Robicheaux series opens as Hurricane Katrina churns its way through the Gulf, homing in on its target of New Orleans. In The Tin Roof Blowdown, New Iberia police detective Dave Robicheaux finds himself in the heart of the Hurricane Katrina disaster when his department is temporarily assigned to rescue and response duty in the Big Easy. Burke once again assembles a large cast of characters whose lives inevitably collide, causing chaos and death. This might be Burke's finest book, right up there with In the Electric Mist with Confederate Dead. His descriptions of Hurricane Katrina and the disaster that followed are gut-wrenching and powerful. I often forget mysteries soon after I read them, but this book will stay with me for a very long time. ...more James Lee Burke has a real love for Southern Louisiana and it is apparent in his novels. With this in mind I had wondered how he would respond to the devastation of Hurricane Katrina. This book takes rural detective/ex- New Orleans cop, Dave Robicheaux into the center of the aftermath to help with recovery efforts. Burke/Robicheaux provides the reader with a very real and disturbing picture of how the hurrican affected the people and the City he loves. Along with this insight is the development James Lee Burke has a real love for Southern Louisiana and it is apparent in his novels. With this in mind I had wondered how he would respond to the devastation of Hurricane Katrina. This book takes rural detective/ex- New Orleans cop, Dave Robicheaux into the center of the aftermath to help with recovery efforts. Burke/Robicheaux provides the reader with a very real and disturbing picture of how the hurrican affected the people and the City he loves. Along with this insight is the development of a very good mystery story in the Robicheaux tradition dealing with a complex set of characters that reflect the culture of the bayou country. Burke has a literary quality that is matched by few in his short but succinct descriptions of the intimate details that seem to flow effortlessly into the telling of the story. ...more", "Title": "The Tin Roof Blowdown"},
