{"Comments": "HULK SMASH KVOTHE! KVOTHE CAN DO ANYTHING AND THAT MAKE HULK ANGRY! NOT BECAUSE HULK IS JEALOUS! BUT BECAUSE HULK THINKS THIS IS RIDICULOUS AND MAKES HULK ROLL EYES AND SNORT AT THOUGHT OF 100% PERFECT KVOTHE! KVOTHE IS BEST LUTE PLAYER,<---M> IS BEST SONG WRITER</---M>, IS BEST WEAPON-MAKER, IS BEST FIGHTER, IS BEST ACTOR, IS BEST INVESTIGATOR, IS BEST KILLER, IS BEST GIRL RESCUER, IS BEST MAGICIAN, IS BEST IS BEST IS BEST IS BEST! EVEN FAERIE ENCHANTRESS LOVE KVOTHE BECAUSE KVOTHE IS BEST FIRST-TIME LOVER I HULK SMASH KVOTHE! KVOTHE CAN DO ANYTHING AND THAT MAKE HULK ANGRY! NOT BECAUSE HULK IS JEALOUS! BUT BECAUSE HULK THINKS THIS IS RIDICULOUS AND MAKES HULK ROLL EYES AND SNORT AT THOUGHT OF 100% PERFECT KVOTHE! KVOTHE IS BEST LUTE PLAYER, IS BEST SONG WRITER, IS BEST WEAPON-MAKER, IS BEST FIGHTER, IS BEST ACTOR, IS BEST INVESTIGATOR, IS BEST KILLER, IS BEST GIRL RESCUER, IS BEST MAGICIAN, IS BEST IS BEST IS BEST IS BEST! EVEN FAERIE ENCHANTRESS LOVE KVOTHE BECAUSE KVOTHE IS BEST FIRST-TIME LOVER IN ENTIRE HISTORY OF MADE-UP WORLD! HULK FROTH AT MOUTH WHEN THINKING ABOUT PERFECTION OF ALWAYS CLEVER KVOTHE! EVERYONE KNOW HULK IS INCREDIBLE, HULK IS STRONGEST MAN-THING IN ENTIRE WORLD, HULK IS HANDSOMEST GREEN MAN EVER - BUT HULK IS NOT BEST DANCER OR BEST KARATE EXPERT OR BEST EMBROIDERER TOO! UGH! ARGH! HULK WANT TO MAKE KVOTHE BEST BLOODSTAIN! HULK ANGRY AT PATRICK ROTHFUSS TOO! HULK THINK SOMETIMES AUTHORS DREAM UP THEIR 100% PERFECT FANTASY VERSION OF HERO - OR EVEN FANTASY VERSION OF THEMSELF, HULK GUESS - WHEN THEY SHOULD UNDERSTAND THAT PROTAGONIST WHO CAN DO ANYTHING AND WHO CONSTANTLY MENTIONS ALL OF THEIR AMAZING ABILITIES IS WORTHLESS AS PROTAGONIST ! WHY DOES ROTHFUSS NOT UNDERSTAND THAT PERFECT IS BORING ?!? IF HULK WERE FEELING GENEROUS HULK WOULD SAY, WELL THIS IS ONLY ROTHFUSS' SECOND BOOK SO WHY NOT BE MORE PATIENT, HULK? BUT HULK IS NOT FEELING GENEROUS AND SO HE MUST CALL OUT THAT THIS IS STUPID, STUPID MISTAKE FROM VERY SMART AUTHOR! IF ROTHFUSS WERE BAD WRITER, HULK MIGHT UNDERSTAND. BUT ROTHFUSS IS VERY GOOD AUTHOR! SO HIS BIG MISTAKE WHICH HE REPEATS OVER AND OVER AGAIN IS EXTRA EXTRA IRRITATING! HULK WANTED TO GIVE BOOK 2 STARS HE WAS SO FRUSTRATED.<---F> BUT HULK CANNOT</---F>. HULK LOVE THIS BOOK! HULK LOVE IMMERSIVE EXPERIENCES. HULK LOVE HOW ROTHFUSS TAKES TIME WITH EPISODIC NOVEL AND LETS READER REALLY UNDERSTAND EACH PART OF WORLD THAT STUPID KVOTHE VISITS. HULK LOVE DETAILS OF LIFE AT UNIVERSITY. HULK LOVE DETAILS OF VINTAS AND FAERIE LAND AND SMALL BAND OF BANDIT-KILLERS AND SO MANY MORE DETAILS AND ALL THE DIFFERENT STORIES. IT IS LIKE HULK IS ABLE TO LIVE IN THIS WORLD AND HULK LOVE THAT! HULK ESPECIALLY LOVE KNOWING ABOUT ADEM CULTURE. FASCINATING CULTURE! ADEM CULTURE THINK WEARING CLOTHES OR NOT WEARING CLOTHES IS NO BIG DEAL AND THAT REALLY MAKE SENSE TO HULK. HULK ALSO LOVE INSIGHTFUL ENGAGEMENT WITH STORYTELLING IN BOOK. VERY SMART! HULK NOT LIKE SCENES SET IN PRESENT BUT HULK HAS COMPLAINED ENOUGH. HULK LOVE MYSTERIES AND BOOK IS FULL OF GOOD MYSTERIES! HULK LOVE MYSTERY OF CHANDRIAN! HULK ALSO LIKE PORTRAYAL OF MOST WOMEN IN BOOK. HULK NOT ASHAMED TO ADMIT HE GOT JUST A LITTLE BIT TEARY IN EYES OVER RESCUE OF RAPE VICTIMS. BUT HULK ESPECIALLY LOVE WARRIOR WOMEN OF ADEM! STRONG WOMEN! HULK APPRECIATE STRONG WOMEN! HULK REALLY THINK ROTHFUSS IS EXCELLENT WRITER. VERY TALENTED AT MANY THINGS AND GOOD WITH MOST CHARACTERS AND NARRATIVE AND IMAGERY AND LETTING STORY LIVE AND BREATHE IN PACE THAT IS NOT RUSHED AND LETTING READER GET TO KNOW WORLD SLOWLY AND UNDERSTAND MAGIC SLOWLY AND HULK NOT TURNED OFF BY VERY BIG SIZE OF BOOK. HULK LIKE BIG THINGS! BUT HULK NOT LIKE KVOTHE! HULK SMASH KVOTHE! ...more Well, it's done. And it's been a long time coming... Back in late 2009 I finally got the book to the point where I was satisfied with it. It was an okay book. It was a book that if I had to publish it, I knew it wouldn't embarrass me. By May 2010 I'd re-written the book to the point where I was happy with it. It was a good book. It was a book I was pleased with. By my final deadline in November 2010, I'd revised things to the point where I was excited about it. It was a great book. It was finall Well, it's done. And it's been a long time coming... Back in late 2009 I finally got the book to the point where I was satisfied with it. It was an okay book. It was a book that if I had to publish it, I knew it wouldn't embarrass me. By May 2010 I'd re-written the book to the point where I was happy with it. It was a good book. It was a book I was pleased with. By my final deadline in November 2010, I'd revised things to the point where I was excited about it. It was a great book. It was finally a book I was proud of.... I'm glad my editor gave me enough time for this. I'm glad I have a book I'm excited to have on the shelves. I hope when it comes out on March first, you enjoy it. It was a long time coming.... ...more An Opinionated look at: <---A>Patrick Rothfuss</---A>' <+++>The Wise Man's Fear</+++> By Eric Allen One thing I can say for Patrick Rothfuss is that he has great ideas. Unfortunately, great ideas do not a great story make. I have heard rumors that the first book, The Name of the Wind, took eleven years of revisions and rewrites to finally get published. Whether that is true or not, his hard work paid off. Since its release, the internet hype over the future of the trilogy has been building to monumental proportions. Rothf An Opinionated look at: Patrick Rothfuss' <+++>The Wise Man's Fear</+++> By Eric Allen One thing I can say for Patrick Rothfuss is that he has great ideas. Unfortunately, great ideas do not a great story make. I have heard rumors that the first book, The Name of the Wind, took eleven years of revisions and rewrites to finally get published. Whether that is true or not, his hard work paid off. Since its release, the internet hype over the future of the trilogy has been building to monumental proportions. Rothfuss has developed an almost rabid, cultlike following of fans yearning to know what happens next. The Name of the Wind gave us many mysteries and few answers. The first book was a fun read that, while flawed in terms of story and character, was quite entertaining and extraordinarily well written. It was like the ramblings of an old man, talking simply to be listened to. Like cake, it tastes good but has little nutritional value in it. Make no mistake, I really enjoyed the first book, but as a followup to a great book, The Wise Man's Fear was insultingly bad. We were left with many burning questions at the end of The Name of the Wind. Would Kvothe learn to control the Wind? How would he be thrown out of the University? Would he ever become an Arcanist? Would he find some way to make money? Would he ever avenge his parents? How did he come from the promising youth seeking clues to the supernatural beings that murdered his family to the broken down innkeeper telling the story? Would he ever make any sort of progress with Denna, or would my book simply explode while I read it because of the pent up sexual tension? Were any of these questions answered or even addressed in this book? Not a one. So let\u2019s take a look at The Wise Man\u2019s Fear. Or, as I like to call it: The Name of the Wind 2: Kvothe Gets Laid. We begin where The Name of the Wind left off, with a much older Kvothe, now an innkeeper, telling the story of his life to the king's Chronicler. It is a story in three parts, told in three days, much like the silence that haunts his inn. At first I didn\u2019t get the whole silence in three parts thing, but then I realized the writer was trying to be clever and failing miserably at it. As Kvothe begins his story, the book switches from third person to first person. He begins his next term of schooling at the University. Some of his teachers love him, others hate him. He\u2019s made friends and enemies. Unfortunately, we\u2019ve already read this before. It seems like the last half of The Name of the Wind has basically been retold here in the first half of The Wise Man's Fear. Luckily, the plot finally intervenes, and Kvothe takes a year off from his schooling for adventure, and hopefully to fill his pockets with a little money to fight off his abject poverty. An acquaintance conveniently knows of a rich and powerful nobleman in a distant land that is looking for a clever young musician to help him win the heart of the lady he has his eye on. Fortunately, Kvothe happens to be a clever young musician. Convenient... To make an extremely long story short, he foils an assassination plot, gains the nobleman\u2019s trust, and helps him woo his Lady. In a completely pointless tangent he\u2019s sent on a mission to bring bandits to justice, loses himself on a tangent from the tangent when he meets a seductress who teaches him how to please women. Then the tangent from the tangent takes another tangent to another distant land where he learns to tangent from a group of tangentary tangents, but is tangented by yet another tangent after leaving when he tangents upon some young tangents in need of being tangentially tangented away from--wait, what as I talking about again? Oh right, I'm reviewing a book. One could say that the entire last half of the book is just one gigantic tangent that has absolutely nothing to do with anything, and ultimately leads nowhere. Falling out with his lordly employer, Kvothe returns to school with an arrangement that for his services his education and expenses at school would be taken care of. At which point he resumes his school life as if nothing has happened and the book ends rather abruptly, again with no climax, no conflict, and no resolution. The good? Rothfuss has an excellent sense of humor. Kvothe can be entertaining at times, when he's not acting like an insufferable smartass... which is most of the time. The world and the magic system are very well thought out, and the different cultures and races seem very distinct and real. The writing itself is excellent. So good in fact, that most people don't even realize what a god-awful mess every other aspect of the book is. Despite all the bitching I do about this book, it was worth reading at least once for the humor, or to see the train wreck for yourself. The bad? Firstly, it is very evident that Rothfuss has ABSOLUTELY no respect for women whatsoever. Almost every woman in this book is a figurative, if not literal, whore that exists for the sole purpose of pleasuring, comforting, or otherwise confounding Kvothe. News flash Pat, women are people too. The same as you and me, with thoughts, feelings, and desires all of their own, that do NOT typically revolve around some incomprehensible and fantastical yearning to please men. Just thought you'd like to know. Half of this book is copy and paste from the first book. The other half has little to no point and goes absolutely nowhere. There\u2019s no conflict, there\u2019s no suspense, there\u2019s nothing like a normal story arch. There is no climax because the book doesn\u2019t build up to anything. Like I said, Patrick Rothfuss has great ideas, but no storytelling skills to apply them to. The whole narrative is incoherent and nonsensical. You have to reward your readers with a climactic event or two for sticking with you through the whole book, Pat. Far too much time is spent on characters telling allegorical stories that really have little point or purpose except to take up space in a book that is already FAR too long for what actually happens in it. They take up huge swaths of the book and leave the characters with very little in the way of worth afterward. The lessons they learn could have been simply taught through other means or much, much shorter stories. The huge amount of tangents that the story takes makes it feel as though the writer made it up as he went along. It's really so incoherent, and so rambling that I believe this book should have been marketed more as a collection of short stories than a novel. The frequent interruptions back to the present day where Kvothe discusses aspects of his story are annoying and hugely distracting, breaking up whatever little suspense that the writer managed to cultivate. Not a single question raised in the first book was answered, or even addressed in this book, in fact this book picks up as though there were no questions left by the first book and does nothing to either build up the mystery of them, or move closer to answering them. It is as though the writer completely forgot all of them and moved on to something else. If you\u2019ve read The Name of the Wind you have no need to read The Wise Man\u2019s fear, because you\u2019ve already read it. It\u2019s basically the same book, and there isn\u2019t a single thing necessary to the overall story that happens in it. When book 3 eventually comes out, you could probably pick it up after reading book 1 and not have missed a single thing. This book was completely unnecessary, and utterly pointless. I have never liked the first person perspective very much. It gives a very narrow view of the world as you can only see, experience and feel the world through the eyes of a single character. You have no other views to give perspective. I always find the contrasting views of different characters to give the world and story a lot more flavor than simply following the words of a single character. However, some of my favorite books are written in first person. It can be done well, and for the most part Rothfuss does good things with it, but when he moves to the parts of the book that happen in the present day he switches to third person and the contrast is jarring and almost as distracting as the actual interruptions themselves. Especially because he does not seem to be as talented in writing third person as he is at writing first person. Rothfuss goes out of his way to shoehorn the title of the book into the story in several places and it's really distracting. It was like he came up with a great sounding title, and then completely drew a blank on why the book should be called that, then dropped a couple references in after the fact. He also seems to think his readers are idiots and frequently talks down to them. The ugly? Lots and lots of sex. There are so many sex scenes in this book that I started to wonder if it shouldn\u2019t have had a shirtless, ripped, long-haired dude on the cover and a title more like Warrior of Passion, or some such nonsense from the porn\u2014er, I mean Romance\u2014section of the bookstore. Everywhere Kvothe goes, women are throwing themselves at him. I wonder what his secret is\u2026 Must be the Axe body spray. In real life, no man has women constantly trying to jump his bones simply because he's the main character in the story of his own life. Especially not sixteen year olds who are often thought to be younger than that by appearance. That's called pedophilia, and most people tend to see that as very WRONG. News flash, women don't typically think or act like that. If I were a girl reading this book I think I'd find myself highly offended by this. It's almost as though he's the bearer of the One Wang. Yes, the fabled One Wang of Power. The One Wang to rule them all. The One Wang to find them. The One Wang to bring them all, and in the darkness... well, you know. Denna. I. HAAAAATE!!!!! FREAKING. DENNA!!! Oh my holy hell, I hate this character. Talk about doing EVERYTHING you possibly could in character creation wrong. I get that the writer obviously wanted to make a mysterious female character for the male lead to fall for, someone who equals his own mysteriousness. And that sort of thing CAN be done well, but here, it's definitely NOT. You can only drag it out so far before it becomes annoying, distracting, and downright torturous. Rothfuss has completely and utterly failed in making a compelling love interest. Why do I hate her so much? Because, frankly, she's just a badly crafted and written character. She is bland. So much so that Rothfuss should be both highly embarrassed and ashamed of her. She is boring. She is annoying. She tries to be clever, but isn't... AT ALL. She is not a realistic portrayal of a woman in the slightest bit. She serves no purpose to the plot whatsoever and is blatantly shoehorned in where she does not belong because someone decided that every work of fiction just HAS to have a love story in it. Her faux mysteriousness is badly written, contrived BS that does little but annoy the reader and make her even more painful to sit through. And, most importantly, she adds NOTHING of value to the story even in the barest possible meaning of the term! In short, she is completely unlikable in any way, shape or form. Besides being completely unlikeable, neither she nor Kvothe act like they give two damns about each other, and their relationship fails completely because it's been dragged out FAR too long. Even the most rabid Twi-tard would likely agree on that point. Sometime in the story SOMETHING has to happen between them. You can't just keep building up between two people that honestly have no reason to fall in love with each other and call it a love story. DO SOMETHING!!! And for the record I do not count an argument that has absolutely nothing to do with their relationship in any way to be \"something\" happening in said relationship. Rothfuss keeps playing up her mysteriousness to such a degree that I finally just started flipping through and skimming the last few chapters with her in them because she pisses me off too much. I get it, she\u2019s terribly mysterious, GET TO THE DAMN POINT ALREADY!!! She turns an otherwise entertaining character into a whining, crying, spineless, emo, stalker. Her character is so distracting and utterly painful to be subjected to that she completely ruins the book all on her own. If every other gripe I had about the book mysteriously disappeared, the presence of Denna alone would have ruined it. Worst of all, this painful mess of a love story, has yet to serve any purpose to the overall plot. Oh, it may come into play in the third and final book, but suffering through this horrible, boring, emotionless, and frankly unbelievable abomination for two books leading up to it is asking too much. There haven't even been any hints whatsoever that it may, in fact, be important later on to what passes for a plot in Patrick Rothfuss' universe. It\u2019s a contrived, annoying, distracting, and frankly painful waste of time. Remove Denna from the series entirely and it is a much better series. I do not know who came up with the rule that in every work of fiction there must needs be a love story, but guess what. Sometimes, you really don't need one. It becomes superfluous and takes away from the story instead of adding to it. This series certainly would benefit a GREAT DEAL without one. Why? Because Rothfuss doesn't know the first thing about love, which is painfully obvious if you've read even one scene between Kvothe and Denna. He doesn't seem to understand what love is, or how it works. He seems to subscribe to the George Lucas version of love. Two talented and good looking people are together... TADAAAAAAH, IT'S LOVE!!! now shut up and enjoy your ridiculously over the top computer animated explosion fest of a climax. If you can't craft a believable and compelling love story. STOP. Take two steps back. And completely remove it from your book, because the story is better off without it than it is when it completely fails. A love story has to develop and always be moving. Whether it be forward or backward, it must always be going SOMEWHERE. The characters have to get to know each other and fall in love through mutual experiences and differences, not randomly meet here and there and have a boring conversation with a convenience that stretches credulity and coincidence alike. The supposed relationship between Kvothe and Denna goes exactly NOWHERE, and it leaves you wondering why the author keeps trying to tell us that there is even a so-called love story between these two characters at all in the first place. There has to be some sort of progress made. You can\u2019t throw two good looking people together that have no reason to fall in love with each other and call it a love story. There is nothing about this love story that is a.) even a love story and b.) the slightest bit interesting. And yet Kvothe continuously pines after this girl as though he has any sort of meaningful relationship with her when there is no reason whatsoever for him to even care that she exists, other than that she's a girl and he's a boy. There may be some small, one-sided physical attraction on his part, but physical attraction does not equal love. The attraction is NOT mutual, however, and that is plainly obvious in the way that Denna acts and speaks to Kvothe. The lengths to which the author goes to assure us that there is a love story here are almost as creepy as the lengths to which Kvothe goes to stalk her. Especially because she has expressed no romantic interest in him at all and frequently attaches herself to other men IN HIS PRESENCE, INCLUDING his arch-nemesis Ambrose. AND THEN, Kvothe himself basically bones every girl he meets in the entire book OTHER THAN HER!!! What is this? This isn't a love story. It's like watching a rock try to get it on with a piece of wood. They constantly boink other people throughout the book, and seem to have no romantic feelings toward one another at all. Do you even understand what love is Pat? From this book I can definitely say that you do not. I haven't seen such a failure to write a compelling love story since Attack of the Clones. And I'm not just biased against love stories because I'm a guy. I will admit that I do enjoy the occasional, well done love story, so long as it actually serves a purpose to the plot, or makes me feel that these characters truly do love each other and deserve to be together--two things that are lacking here, so much so, in fact that it completely and utterly ruins the entire series from the first page Denna walked in on. The moment she showed up was the moment this series was irrevocably ruined. I can\u2019t wait for her foreshadowed death because I will cheer with joy the day I read her last words. Until then, I award Patrick Rothfuss the George Lucas Totally Understands Love Stories Award. So, after all is said and done, is The Wise Man\u2019s Fear really as bad as I make it out to be? YES!!! IT IS!!! But at the same time, no. It really isn\u2019t that horrible. If you can ignore that this entire book is completely pointless and full of a non-love story that is really starting to grate, it can be quite entertaining. The sense of humor, and Kvothe as a character, are enough to keep you interested through the good and the bad alike. Denna is annoying and pointless, but you can skip any chapter about her and miss little to nothing because she's not important to the plot and serves no purpose at all except to make Kvothe so lovesick that he screws 25+ other girls during the course of the book. *shrug* Yeah, I don't get it either. If sex scenes offend you, you\u2019ll be doing quite a bit of skipping. As I said before, this book was completely unnecessary, and did nothing at all to ultimately advance the plot, or the characters. If you come at it as a work of comedy rather than part of a grand epic fantasy, then you'll likely be entertained by the humor. On the other hand, you could pick up book 3 when it comes out and not be lost at all, because this book was about nothing. The characters did not learn, grow or progress at all, and it ends as it begins, with Kvothe in school, dealing with the same problems he was dealing with in the beginning. He hasn't taken anything away from his misadventures. He hasn't learned any lessons. He's the same character he was at the beginning. There\u2019s a great story in here somewhere, the author keeps hinting at great events to come, but he never takes any steps closer to them. It\u2019s the best book about absolutely nothing that you\u2019ll ever read. At the risk of inviting nerd rage the likes of which GOD has never seen, I give The Wise Man\u2019s Fear 1 star. It loses points in complete lack of plot, endless tangents, repeated use of pointless allegory, and inflicting Denna's completely horrible side story on us. The only thing that kept me reading this book was the sense of humor. Patrick Rothfuss seemed so promising after his debut novel, but I doubt his will be a lasting name unless his next book makes some major improvements upon the pile of steaming crap he served us with The Wise Man's Fear. He has obvious talent, but lacks any skill to apply it to. I have been accused of giving this book a poor rating simply because everyone else loved it. This is untrue. You can take my words at face value. I mean what I say. I say this book is terrible because I truly feel that it IS terrible. Not every book is for everyone, and this one is not for me. Just because a lot of people enjoyed it does not mean that I did. I've read a rare few books I disliked more than this one. Agree or not, that is my HONEST opinion. You don't have to agree with me, but I don't have to like this book. I have never read a book so vacuous, vapid, pretentious, and up its own ass as The Wise Man's Fear. Check out my other reviews. ...more I'm going to have to be the sole voice of dissent. I found Kvothe profoundly annoying. Here's an excerpt of his typical storytelling, word for word: \"I managed very little sleep that night, and Losi came closer to killing me than Felurian ever had.\" (Post-coital thoughts on the second girl in 20 pages. He's 16.) \"She was a delightful partner, every bit as wonderful as Felurian had been. But how could that be? I hear you ask. How could any mortal woman compare with Felurian?\" Felurian is a ghost/fairy I'm going to have to be the sole voice of dissent. I found Kvothe profoundly annoying. Here's an excerpt of his typical storytelling, word for word: \"I managed very little sleep that night, and Losi came closer to killing me than Felurian ever had.\" (Post-coital thoughts on the second girl in 20 pages. He's 16.) \"She was a delightful partner, every bit as wonderful as Felurian had been. But how could that be? I hear you ask. How could any mortal woman compare with Felurian?\" Felurian is a ghost/fairy from the \"Fey\" where we wasted a hundred pages of Kvothe having sex with her over and over to no discernible end. He escapes finally by singing with his beautiful singsong voice that he brags about constantly. \"It is easier to understand if you think of it in terms of music. Sometimes a man enjoys a symphony.\" [Talking about sex.] \"Elsetimes he finds a jig more suited to his taste. The same holds true of lovemaking.\" Haha, right, so by now it's getting hilarious, because this little twirp who, at age 16, manages to find two women willing to sleep with him (one of whom is imaginary), decides that he's become The God of Sex, and must now spend the rest of the book acting like an effeminate man-whore. Kvothe speaking again: \"One type [of sex] is suited to the deep cushions of a twilight forest glade. Another comes quite naturally tangled in the sheets of narrow beds upstairs in inns.\" \"in inns\" - distinctive Rothfuss diction. Kvothe's insights on women: \"Each woman is like an instrument, waiting to be learned, and finely played [fucked], to have at least her own true music made.\" That's right guys, women are like instruments, and they exist for your use and pleasure. Realizing that what he just said is sophomoric, sexist, and a little insane, Kvothe clarifies: \"Some might take offense at this way of seeing things. They might think I degrade women.\" Well, in defense of anyone thinking that, you do degrade women. Before the book ends, your skinny little ass has sex with half the village by the university. I don't feel like transcribing any more of it. Kvothe prances around with the approximate wisdom and subtlety of a slightly below average modern-day teenager. A musician with a delicate disposition more at home at a pedicurist than a fantasy novel, he's best described as a weakling, a coward, and a fool. At one point he actually loses a fight to a 10 year old girl. Someone responded to this earlier by saying: \"But she was a really badass little girl.\" Haha. Ok. ______________________________ Criticisms: \"His primary personalty traits are wit, charm and intelligence.\" Mark Twain is witty. Locke Lamora is charming. Kvothe is a self-absorbed brat with the emotional depth of a teaspoon. The narrator insists on his intelligence and success at the university, but every time Kvothe speaks, it's an eyeroll-fest. \"Kvothe is the furthest thing from a coward.\" A girl he's been pining over since almost the beginning of the last book admits that she is being abused. What does Kvothe do? He says some dumb things and abandons her to go on a pointless expedition into the woods; stumbles over the Fey, where he loses his virginity; screws 5 more women that we're told about - this in the space of a couple of months; and finally returns to the university by the end of the book, only to reveal that he is not in love with the original girl anymore. Stay classy, Kvothe, buddy. Here's what he has to say about love: Kvothe: \"Love is a subtle concept. But it can be defined.\" Vashet: \"Do so then. Tell me of love.\" Kvothe: \"Love is the willingness to do anything for someone.\" Vashet: \"Then how is love different from duty or loyalty?\" Kvothe: \"It is also combined with physical attraction.\" [Well, you're an expert on that, you little man-whore, you.] Vashet: \"Even a mother's love?\" Kvothe: \"Combined with extreme fondness then.\" Vashet: \"And what exactly do you mean by fondness?\" Kvothe: \"It is...\" [He] trailed off, racking [his] brain... At least that shouldn't take long. Listen, Kvothe, love is the condition wherein the happiness of another person is essential to your own. It's not rocket science. And it does not require physical attraction. \"Combined with extreme fondness\"? Wtf are you, 16? Oh yeah, that's right, you are. Seriously, half the time Kvothe opens his mouth, I want to punch him in the face. 1000 pages of him speaking ... come on. Don't do this to me. And look, I completely understand that the author had a purpose in making a typical teenager his main character. I get it. But reading the result is not something I'd wish upon anyone. ...more There's a tendency when reading a series to rate the books against each other rather than against the world. I've seen it done to my own books: I loved XXXX of Thorns but it wasn't as good as YYYY of Thorns ... so 4*. I didn't enjoy The Wise Man's Fear as much as I enjoyed The Name of the Wind. I didn't enjoy A Dance With Dragons as much as I enjoyed A Game of Thrones. But I'm giving them ALL 5* because compared to most books I read ... they're noticeably better. I won't 4* this book to make my p There's a tendency when reading a series to rate the books against each other rather than against the world. I've seen it done to my own books: I loved XXXX of Thorns but it wasn't as good as YYYY of Thorns ... so 4*. I didn't enjoy The Wise Man's Fear as much as I enjoyed The Name of the Wind. I didn't enjoy A Dance With Dragons as much as I enjoyed A Game of Thrones. But I'm giving them ALL 5* because compared to most books I read ... they're noticeably better. I won't 4* this book to make my point that it's (for me) not as good as its predecessor ... I'll make that point here. With words. Readers often get 'confused' between the journey, the destination, and the story. When the reader thinks the story lies at the end of the journey, and the writer thinks the story IS the journey, it can cause tensions between them. Reading TWMF part of me was always wanting to get back to 'the thing' where 'the thing' was where my knee-jerk tells me the story lies, i.e. making solid progress at the university in order to tackle the Chandrian. And that really doesn't happen in this very long book. In fact so little happens in that direction that I wonder if Rothfuss might not wholly evade that issue. Certainly if he's to conclude the story in three books it seems that a drastic up-ing of focus and pace (or a 10,000 page book) would be required to deal with Heliax and friends. So, let's put to one side the fact that if you think the story is about revenge on the Chandrian then basically nothing happened, and note instead that all the 'side' adventuring was fun to read and very well written. Kvothe continues to be brilliant at everything. The fact that on one page late on we discover he's not genius level at mathematics hardly balances that he picks up a difficult new language, makes startling progress at marshal arts, and impresses a sex fairy with his sexing, even though it's his first time. If you let go of your destination desires this is an enjoyable book with great prose. The story meanders, seemingly with out direction. In fact a big chunk of it is about Kvothe and friends meandering without direction, hunting bandits in a vast wood. The aim doesn't feel particularly important (protecting tax collectors in a distant land), the meat of it doesn't feel very exciting (they wander for a LONG time), and much of it feels pretty random (the sex fairy encounter comes out of nowhere) ... but even so, I plain enjoyed reading it, we get our little band group dynamics, we get story telling around the camp fire ... and each told story is a fun bit of fiction in itself... It all sounds a bit dull when I lay it out, but the deliciousness (like the devil) is in the detail, and I kept coming back for more. In the end we're back at the university and bugger all has been accomplished. On a basic level we're pretty much where we started, and left wondering how this story is going to move forward. But on an entirely different level, I've consumed a 1000 page book in an unheard of (for me) two weeks and enjoyed pretty much every minute of it. So five stars. I now, at long last, join the end of a lengthy queue of people agitating for book 3. . ...more (This review is from 2011.) In case you haven\u2019t heard, today is the release day of the long-awaited sequel to The Name of the Wind , a delightful debut fantasy novel by Patrick Rothfuss. I\u2019ve had the privilege of reading the book, so I thought I\u2019d post a heads-up here for those of you who read my blog, along with a review. (Of sorts.) Also, a reminder, I did an interview with Pat (and he kind of interviewed me back) for Amazon. You can read it at this link: http://www.amazon.com/gp/feature.html. (This review is from 2011.) In case you haven\u2019t heard, today is the release day of the long-awaited sequel to The Name of the Wind , a delightful debut fantasy novel by Patrick Rothfuss. I\u2019ve had the privilege of reading the book, so I thought I\u2019d post a heads-up here for those of you who read my blog, along with a review. (Of sorts.) Also, a reminder, I did an interview with Pat (and he kind of interviewed me back) for Amazon. You can read it at this link: http://www.amazon.com/gp/feature.html... PART ONE: A REVIEW OF THE WISE MAN\u2019S FEAR All right, so the review of Wise Man\u2019s Fear will focus on one question: Is it as good as the first? The answer is\u00a0.\u00a0.\u00a0. yes, and I feel that it\u2019s quite a bit better. (That is saying a lot.) There\u2019s the review. I figure that those of you reading this blog will either: 1. Have read Name of the Wind and liked it, so that review should be more than enough for you. 2. Have read Name of the Wind and didn\u2019t like it. If so, I respect your opinion, even though you\u2019re obviously a crazy person. 3. Haven\u2019t yet read Name of the Wind, so giving you an extensive review of the second book would really just be a big confusing spoiler. PART TWO: GO BUY IT This is a very, very good book. If you liked the first, might I suggest that you go out and purchase yourself a copy this week? Pat may not mention it himself, but first-week sales are very helpful in giving a book good momentum. It will determine how long the book stays on shelves, how good its placement is in weeks to come, and how aggressively the sequel will be ordered by bookstores. As I always state for my own books, if you\u2019re not a hardcover buyer, don\u2019t feel guilty not going out to get it\u2014as authors, we like you to consume books as you prefer to consume them. Library, hardcover, ebook, paperback\u00a0.\u00a0.\u00a0. your call. However, if you are intending to read Wise Man\u2019s Fear in hardcover, buying it early rather than late is always a nice sign for the author. Also, I\u2019ve got a selfish reason for wanting Pat to sell well. I\u2019d very much like to have a nice, friendly rivalry going with the chap. The Way of Kings hit #7 on the New York Times list. If Pat can hit in the top five with this book, it will give me something to shoot for. (Honestly, I\u2019m hoping he hits #1. It\u2019s well within the realm of possibility for this book, and he deserves it. It will help the entire genre if this book sells well, as it will prove that big epic fantasy books by newer authors are still viable, and will also prove that excellence will be rewarded by the readership.) PART THREE: A LONGER REVIEW (KIND OF) Okay, so, I\u2019m off on a tangent again. Let\u2019s bring this back into focus. I\u2019m going to assume that some of you haven\u2019t read Name of the Wind yet. I often suggest it to people; it\u2019s become\u2014alongside Tigana , The Eye of the World , and Dragonsbane \u2014one of my top recommendations for fantasy readers. Often, however, people ask why they should read the book. Why do I recommend it? Because it\u2019s awesome. Why is it awesome? This often stops me. Why is Pat\u2019s writing awesome? Well, the books have an absolutely wonderful magic system. One part science, one part historical pseudoscience, one part magical wonder. It\u2019s the type of magic system that I\u2019m always delighted to read, and ranks among my favorites in fantasy literature. But that alone doesn\u2019t describe why the books are awesome. In many ways, Name of the Wind is like an old, familiar coat. A young man orphaned at a young age. Time spent on the streets living as a thief and a street rat. A wizards\u2019 school. Those who have not liked the book have often complained about the familiar tropes. What I love about how Pat uses these tropes, however, is the realism he strives to impart. I view this story like a Batman Begins -type realism reboot of many classic fantasy tropes. We get to hear the legends of Kvothe, then read the truth, and make the connections of how things spiraled from realistic to fantastic. The way Pat does this is genius. In some places, you can barely pick out the tropes he is using\u2014after one sequence in Wise Man\u2019s Fear , I found myself laughing uproariously as I realized the mythological foundation for the sequence. There are familiar tropes, but they\u2019re taken and made so new and fresh that you have to peer through several layers of silk to see them for what they are. In other cases, there is delightful originality. Those things, however, also fail to describe why the books are awesome. Kvothe is a very compelling hero, very classical in that he\u2019s widely accomplished yet marred by a single dominating flaw. (In this case, his temper.) He is witty, charming, and so wonderfully capable that he\u2019s a delight to read about. (Particularly following much of the current fiction I\u2019ve read, which seems to take the utmost pains to make certain I don\u2019t like anyone I\u2019m reading about.) He\u2019s noble, yet brash, and is clever, but inexperienced. (Which makes him dense on occasion.) He lives. But even that is not what truly makes these books awesome. In the end, I think that if I distill why I\u2019ve loved these books so much more than others, it\u2019s because of this: They\u2019re beautiful. Wise Man\u2019s Fear is a beautiful book to read. Masterful prose, a sense of cohesion to the storytelling, a wonderful sense of pacing\u00a0.\u00a0.\u00a0. None of that is the reason for the awesomeness any more than a single dab of paint is the reason why a Monet is a thing of wonder. But if you step back to look and digest the piece as a whole\u2014not thinking too much about the parts\u2014you are left with a sense of awe. There is a beauty to Pat\u2019s writing that defies description. Perhaps if Kvothe were here, he could write an appropriate song that would capture it. Brandon p.s. As this is of note to many of those in my audience, I feel that I should mention that this book contains a fair bit more sex than the previous volume did. Pat avoids graphic details, but there are events in the latter half of the book that some readers may find discomforting. ...more So, there's an established phenomenon that I don't think anyone has coined a snappy title for yet, in my head I call it \"Fabulous but Unpredicted Success Leads to a Complete lack of Editorial Constraint or Outside Input Whatsoever which-in-turn Leads to Creative Stagnation and Catastrophe\". FUSLCECOIWLCSC. Foo-Sil-Kec-Oiw-Lecuscu. Not going to be printed in a newspaper any time soon, but it's true in all kinds of media. Generally: 1. Someone outside the established system will bring in something n So, there's an established phenomenon that I don't think anyone has coined a snappy title for yet, in my head I call it \"Fabulous but Unpredicted Success Leads to a Complete lack of Editorial Constraint or Outside Input Whatsoever which-in-turn Leads to Creative Stagnation and Catastrophe\". FUSLCECOIWLCSC. Foo-Sil-Kec-Oiw-Lecuscu. Not going to be printed in a newspaper any time soon, but it's true in all kinds of media. Generally: 1. Someone outside the established system will bring in something new that no one has a great deal of faith in 2. They fight tooth and nail to have \"their vision\" produced as they want it 3. They make more money than God when it's released, terrifying those inside the system that they may no longer know what the audience wants. 4. Those inside the system, shocked and numb, relinquish any sort of control 5. The outsider is left to run roughshod over their own projects and ruin whatever originally great thing it was they had made. In film: George Lucas/The Wachowski's In Games: Peter Molyneaux In Books: Patrick Rothfuss I think it's an important preamble, because very nearly every page of this 1000 page epic screams \"edit me\". It needs the book-world equivalent of Roger Corman to enter the room with something pointy, and stand over the shoulder of this bearded, smug, chubby goon and jab him with it until he gets on with telling the damn story he set out to tell, before he becomes Robert Jordan Jr in earnest. On the positive side of things, if you pick this book up you will have to fight with yourself to put it down. The truly sad thing about Rothfuss is that he can quite literally write about Kvothe buttering toast and trying on clothes and make it bubble-gum-paper unputdownable. His skill with pacing, narrative and prose is such that, until you start to think really hard about what it is you're reading, your brain is lulled into a quiet, appreciative silence for the 390,000 words contained herein. I mention the word count, because allegedly the only guidance he received from his editor was \"not to make it so long that it can't be bound in a paperback format\". i.e. over 420,000 words. I know this is very \"meta\" so far, but it's absolutely crucial to understand that it's not Pat's fault. Well, obviously it is, but it really isn't entirely his fault. His success with a book that, let's face it, is Earthsea viewed through J.K. Rowling has benumbed anyone around him that could offer criticism, constructive or otherwise. On the negatives, for those that are interested, here's a quick laundry list of the lowlights: - The end of chapter 107 is the most hilariously offensive thing I've ever read on the subject of women. I mean, wow. - The Adem were the ultimate \"noble savage\" society. That they happened to be more or less based on Chinese/Japanese culture may have been coincidence, but I don't think so. - While he's a good writer, he can't put an exciting action scene together for chips. - Almost all the sub-plots of the first third are completely cyclical. - Auri and Devi are abysmal characters that feel stapled on. Apparently in an interview he has now admitted they weren't in the original story as he wrote it. It really, really shows. I can't go any further into the faults without completely ruining it for you, but suffice to say it's flabby where we don't care, lean where we do, Denna dominates fully 100 pages of screen-time (and is even more annoying this time around) and there are 60 full pages of egregious faery boning, wherein Kvothe is schooled in the arts of love by an ancient mythical Fuck-Goddess. Lastly, and maybe I was spoiled by an Abercrombie special before I read this in the shape of The Heroes: There was no character development in this book. Everyone in here feels flat, one dimensional (two dimensions tops for central characters) and dull. Until you really force yourself to think about this, you won't even notice it, because his writing is that good . I have no doubt I'll read the third one because at least half the book was an absolute blast, but please, please: Edit him. EDIT: Score updated as I recently stumbled upon this blog post and now think that rather than being a bit of a hopeless goon, Patrick Rothfuss has probably got Real Actual brain problems he should seek therapy to help him address. ...more FINALLY!! How much can I rave about these books? The storytelling is so engrossing, the worldbuilding super immersive, and the characters pull all the stellar elements together in a series that truly defines epic fantasy. You want to KNOW these characters, you want to see them interact, and you definitely want to go on a journey with them. After reading a lot of paperback UF novels, I felt so pleased that this book provided what felt like 4 books-worth of story and development and wonderfulness fo FINALLY!! How much can I rave about these books? The storytelling is so engrossing, the worldbuilding super immersive, and the characters pull all the stellar elements together in a series that truly defines epic fantasy. You want to KNOW these characters, you want to see them interact, and you definitely want to go on a journey with them. After reading a lot of paperback UF novels, I felt so pleased that this book provided what felt like 4 books-worth of story and development and wonderfulness for the price. If you are a fantasy fan and haven't read this series, please try it, because you will LOVE IT. ...more It's hard to write a review after reading a book like this. It's like reviewing a sunset after a spring storm. Yes, that's a poetic image, and that's what Rothfuss does to your brain. I plan on selling all my worldly possessions soon and devoting my life to chasing the wind... But meanwhile, I'll try to do this book justice. It starts much as Name of the Wind ended, with Kvothe still a 15 year old at the University. It spends about 300 pages in this mode. Kvothe has a handful of new adventures at It's hard to write a review after reading a book like this. It's like reviewing a sunset after a spring storm. Yes, that's a poetic image, and that's what Rothfuss does to your brain. I plan on selling all my worldly possessions soon and devoting my life to chasing the wind... But meanwhile, I'll try to do this book justice. It starts much as Name of the Wind ended, with Kvothe still a 15 year old at the University. It spends about 300 pages in this mode. Kvothe has a handful of new adventures at the university and tells us much about his classes and his never ending pining over Denna. At this point it's good to make a, um, point. The Kingkiller Chronicles are not about the main storyline, i.e. Kvothe discovering who killed his parents, why, hunting the killers down, and avenging them. Many readers will no doubt be impatient at the amount of time Rothfuss spends describing seemingly unimportant side adventures of Kvothe's. The book is about how a man becomes a legend. What would seem to be the main storyline is just as incidental as all the rest. It's nice to have that main plot line running through the many hundreds of pages of his adventures, and it does give Kvothe's life a bit of a forward thrust. But that is not what the book is about. So if you read this series hoping to get a page turner as he chases down the Chandrian, then you may be disappointed. (Though it is still a page turner). This reminds me of when Kvothe tells a story to his two friends. At the end of the story they're a little confused because the story didn't follow the familiar pattern they expected. Then Kvothe explained that he had told them a story that his people would tell each other, not a story meant for a general audience. I wonder if there is a message from Pat in this. What we have is a man at the end of his life, or what he hopes is the end of his life, recounting how his legend was born. And that legend is built of pieces. This book gives us some of those pieces. He eventually leaves the University for most of a year. Rothfuss deftly skips over some of the more irrelevant side adventures, a trial and a shipwreck, and stays focused on those things which begin to build Kvothe as a person - his training, battles, moral decisions, role as a leader. Kvothe is a bit of a contradiction. On the one hand, no matter where he goes, he's always a fish out of water. He's always the different one, the outcast, the landless, lowborn Edema. On the other hand, he's able to adapt wherever he goes, no matter who he is with. He can find a place anywhere. This contradiction is brilliantly balanced by Rothfuss, and we see that perhaps they're different sides of the same coin. His freedom gives him nothing to lose. The strength of the book, though, is probably the sheer poetry of its prose. I don't think I've ever believed magic was as real since maybe watching Star Wars and the force for the first time as a 5 year old. I've often had difficult conversations with friends who were of a very strict, scientific and rational mindset. Trying to get them to accept the truth of other ways of seeing the world has been futile. I think from now own I'll simply recommend this book to them. If they can understand how Kvothe sees the wind, then they'll finally know what I've been telling them. Rothfuss does a better job of describing the worldview of the slightly mad artist/poet and making it magic than anything I've ever read. This book, and the entire series, is destined to be a classic. I somehow survived the four year wait between books one and two. I have no idea how I'll last until book three. ...more Patrick Rothfuss almost did it again. He almost wielded his magic like he did the first time; he almost teased me in the same way and made me feel like I was part of the story, but, ultimately, stumbled over his own words. This book had the potential to be like the first, though he didn\u2019t quite pull it off. Its main problem was that it simply had too much story, which translated as a complete structural mess. The plot was good, but there was just too much of it in the word count; there was e Patrick Rothfuss almost did it again. He almost wielded his magic like he did the first time; he almost teased me in the same way and made me feel like I was part of the story, but, ultimately, stumbled over his own words. This book had the potential to be like the first, though he didn\u2019t quite pull it off. Its main problem was that it simply had too much story, which translated as a complete structural mess. The plot was good, but there was just too much of it in the word count; there was enough material in here for two whole novels, and it was unfortunately crammed into one. Rothfuss needed an editor to tell him no! Back home at the university So, it\u2019s on with the positives before I lay down the problems in full. Rothfuss\u2019 university is a place full of wonder and magic; he\u2019s system of the arcane is very well devised. It\u2019s not a simple thing. The characters don\u2019t say a few words and produce wonders form their fingertips; they have to work at their talents and discover what they are capable of. This means that though the story Kvothe\u2019s powers develop and begin to grow slowly stronger; he gradually begins to learn more arcane secrets, and has to earn every single one. I love the system, and its explained with a high degree of detail that boarders upon the credible. It\u2019s a little odd, but believable in this world. But, that\u2019s only one side of the school. Like most places in society, it\u2019s also full of the arrogant and the selfish; they wish to thwart Kvothe\u2019s progress. Such is the personality of his adversary, Ambrose. The rivalry began as mere teasing and has now developed into something much more dangerous. The two wield a dark hatred for each other that will only be satisfied when the other is dead. Too much has happened now for simple forgiveness on either side. The addition of this rivalry kept the narrative fairly tense because Kvothe is under constant threat no matter how far he travels away from the university. The potential of this story came on too fast As much as I love the university, I was very pleased to see the story taken elsewhere. It needed to be taken far away for Kvothe to grow as a person and discover his limits; he needed to go and fully understand the name of the wind. Indeed, he takes a semester off and goes on a rather large adventure. He becomes the confidant of one of the most powerful men in the world, and leads an expedition to hunt some rather nasty bandits. In this, we see the true potential of this character; we see where he may go when he is a man grown in both body and mind. However, in spite of this, I think some things happened way too fast. The author has crammed far too much story into his thousand pages. To my mind, this should have been published into two separate parts of the same book. Each of which could easily have been around seven hundred pages long. This, though, was a complete mess. By doing it the way Rothfuss has, he has sacrificed parts of his story. Life altering events are condensed down into short passages of the book, and are brushed over in their entirety. Don\u2019t get me wrong, the story was excellent, but there was just far too much of it for one novel. I felt like I was just beginning to understand the effects Florian had on him when he was then thrown into an equally as important aspect of his development. There was simple too much, too fast. As a result, I knocked down my rating a whole star. The pacing was all over the place and the structure was a mess. It simply needed more work before publishing. The ending I\u2019m trying to keep this review positive because I did really enjoy the book, but the problems keep seeping through my words. Everything was brought together at the end, and many things were resolved. But, it felt like Rothfuss was performing a mass juggling act to do it; he resolved almost everything in fifty pages in a weirdly awkward way. Again, there was just too much in here! However, Kvothe has grown tremendously as a person. I do look forward to seeing how this affects his later life at the university. He will, no doubt, be even more reckless and brilliant. And, I would gladly wait ten years for it, if that\u2019s how long Rothfuss needs to get it perfect! There\u2019s no point releasing a half finished book even if it is still really good. \"It had flaws, but what does that matter when it comes to matters of the heart? We love what we love. Reason does not enter into it. In many ways, unwise love is the truest love. Anyone can love a thing because. That's as easy as putting a penny in your pocket. But to love something despite. To know the flaws and love them too. That is rare and pure and perfect.\" Overall, this was enjoyable, but it needed an editor with an iron fist, and a hard heart, to grab Rothfuss by the beard and shout at him; he needs to be told that he shouldn\u2019t walk in the shadow of Robert Jordan because it could ruin his series. I can see why it takes the author many years to write his books. I guess, at times, this story runs away from him and expands almost to the point of breaking point. I hope the third book is more tight and tamed. The Kingkiller Chronicle 1. The Name of the Wind - A jaw dropping five stars. 2. The Wise Man's Fear - A messy four stars 2.5. A Slow Regard for Silent Things - A terrible one star ...more I enjoyed the first book, but did not feel the same way about this one. Fantasy books are meant to be the unbelievable, this much is certain, and the heroes that take the starring role are meant to be people of great intrigue and who can accomplish completely incredible feats, but it feels that it's pushed a bit too far in this book. Kvothe not only is an amazing arcanist, a prodigy with a memory so perfect that he can call up how people smelled on a single day years ago, but he's a musician, and I enjoyed the first book, but did not feel the same way about this one. Fantasy books are meant to be the unbelievable, this much is certain, and the heroes that take the starring role are meant to be people of great intrigue and who can accomplish completely incredible feats, but it feels that it's pushed a bit too far in this book. Kvothe not only is an amazing arcanist, a prodigy with a memory so perfect that he can call up how people smelled on a single day years ago, but he's a musician, and you're meant to believe he's the greatest musician in all the land based on some of the reviews that he receives, as well as how he can compose a song about himself in mere minutes which goes on to spread through the land, being forever etched in everyone's memory. So you have a character that is both an extraordinary magician (probably the most powerful one 'the University' has seen in years) and an extraordinary musician, surpassing people in their mid 20s when he's only 16, how do you make him even better than everyone else? (contains spoilers below) How do you make someone who is already perfect aside from his shitty personality better than everyone else? Well, you could send him off on a throwaway adventure with a band of highly experienced mercenaries and woodsmen and have him be the leader and the one who saves them from certain destruction, but only after having multiple chapters where he and the band do nothing in the forest aside from Tai-Chi and tell stories that don't matter with the exception of one which gets thrown into the Fae mythos for incredibly lame reasons why wars begin. This book doesn't feel natural whatsoever. Everything feels like a plot device just designed to string together a few random ideas that are incredibly cliched. Most of what occurs within the book just seems like an event meant to shout to you \"Look how awesome Kvothe is!\" Rothfuss attempts to offset the chapters where he points out how amazing Kvothe is at everything by flashing forward to the future where he's a lonely innkeeper who is perpetually sad and can't use sympathy to light a man on fire, and gets beaten up by a couple lowly soldiers... contradictory to when he killed a bunch of scrael singlehandedly. Following his throwaway adventure in the woods attacking bandits (where one of the Chandrian is randomly thrown into the action to just show that it had slight relevance), Kvothe goes off with Tempi, a member of the Adem, a super secretive sect of mercenaries who are not accepting of outsiders at all. The reason he's going off with Tempi? Because he was instructed in some of the ways of the Adem Tai-Chi, even though the way the story unfolds you'd be led to believe no outsider has ever learned them. How was Kvothe so fortunate (unfortunate?) to be taught to fight by one of the Adem? He simply asked. And as though Rothfuss realizes that after he reveals how far-fetched it would be even in his own world, which exists solely to make Kvothe look good, for Kvothe to be taught this, he follows up the question of \"Will you teach me the ways of the sword?\" with an obligatory \"Had I known more of the Adem, I never would have asked this...\" It's lazy. I'm not asking to be reading a book that could easily transpire in reality, it is a fantasy novel, and I do realize this, but the way the plot unfolds leaves a lot to be desired, after each important (or throwaway in the case of this book) plot point occurs, instantly Kvothe is on his next adventure, and this isn't something I have a problem with because oftentimes it will make the book more enjoyable to read, but he could at least use some brainpower to try and make it all fit together. Immediately following the fight with the mercenaries, he goes into the Fae, immediately following that, he goes to the Adem, immediately following that he rescues two young girls from rapists disguised as troupers... lame plot point after lame plot point in quick sequence, without any breathing room, which makes little sense considering how much of the start of the book is filled with the mundane sequence of \"Look for Denna. Study. Drink with friends. Sing. Repeat process.\" Chapters repeat themselves so often that the few ones of import stick out like a sore thumb, and those either take too long (the Fae) or end too quickly (the Mercenary fight after the incredibly long buildup). The worst part of the book, by far, is the Felurian arc, which consists entirely of him having sex with the most beautiful woman in the world, who is known to make men go mad simply because they're no longer in her presence when she gets tired of them and allows them to leave. What's the difference between Kvothe and the average guy? Well he convinces Felurian to let him leave, by playing her a half finished song, oh and then he leaves but after he spends \"as much as a year\" in the Fae, where only 3 days have passed in reality (conveniently enough, before Kvothe ran after the faerie creature, he yelled to the people he was with \"meet me at the inn in 3 days!\", what LUCK!). The entire time spent in the Fae is simply ridiculous, and it felt like I was reading a 40 year old male fanfiction diehard's own take at Twilight for virginal fantasy readers in their late teens. \"Oh Kvothe, you're telling lies, there's no way you're a 16 year old virgin! The sex I had with you was amazing, even though I'm a faerie creature who has lived for thousands of years in an alternate world where time passes exponentially slower than the mortal world, and where the only thing I've been doing all these years, while not singing and stealing men from the mortal world, is having sex with those men until I grow bored of them, or they insane.\" Painful to read. After the Fae arc to me it becomes clear that Kvothe is Rothfuss' superimposed teenage self finally living the fantasy nerd's dream and living out a life of perfection in a prototypical fantasy world that he doesn't bother to develop. The world is generic, like the plot of this book, and has no real substance outside of the different words used for week (span) and random curses that get thrown in towards the middle-end of the book (Kist). This book is long for the sake of being long. On top of this, the plotline is just too pretty of a package, the story is too perfect, and although Rothfuss seemingly knows this and tries to make the future look bleak and grim with future-Kvothe implying that he's the subject of a tragedy, it doesn't do much help. Overall it feels as though Rothfuss had several ideas and rather than develop them coherently and try and make it flow like a novel should, he lazily combined them together, and it feels sloppy. It's a shame too, since I really wanted to like this book, but it leaves you wondering what the 'kist' Rothfuss was thinking when he wrote this, unless his goal was to be the male high fantasy equivalent of Twilight which would be a success on all counts. ...more When THE HELL is this book coming out?? The first book grabbed me by the throat and threw me down and had it's way with me and I am fast becoming impatient in having it happen a second time. ... This better not turn into another George R.R. Martin wait! Or ... or... or I shall be extremely vexed. VEXED I tell you! Update 11/10/2014 We now haves this book and we reads it. Oh yes precious, we do and we loves it. It is the precious. The Wise Man's Fear is absolutely fantastic. Rothfuss has propelled When THE HELL is this book coming out?? The first book grabbed me by the throat and threw me down and had it's way with me and I am fast becoming impatient in having it happen a second time. ... This better not turn into another George R.R. Martin wait! Or ... or... or I shall be extremely vexed. VEXED I tell you! Update 11/10/2014 We now haves this book and we reads it. Oh yes precious, we do and we loves it. It is the precious. The Wise Man's Fear is absolutely fantastic. Rothfuss has propelled himself to be my most favoritist of authors. There is simply too much good stuff going on to comment intelligibly. But one must try. In no specific order... Rothfuss Rocks because: 1) He has created a world that unquestionably and easily allows the reader to suspend disbelief. There is so much detail, work and pain (yes, you can tell Rothfuss suffered for his books) that goes into explaining sympathetic magic, alchemy and artificing that the reader finds himself nodding in agreement the whole way, thinking, \"well that makes perfect sense....of course of course, I can do this, give me some soft wax, a candle and someone's hair and I'll conquer the world!\" You believe because Rothfuss created a world that is utterly believable and makes perfect sense. 2) The book is goddamn funny! Knee-slapping so. This isn't a comedic series, but the dialogue between Kvothe and his troupe is simply amazing. I LOVED when he meets Puppet. I couldn't stop chuckling and texting my friend lines from the book. My most favorite scene was actually in the Name of the Wind when Kvothe wears a towel and storms into the tailor's shop, acting as a nobleman's son, what he calls, \"a force of nature.\" The description is exactly how I envision such a pompous little ass would behave. \u201cIf you don\u2019t bring me something to wear\u2014\u201d I stood up and shouted, \u201c\u2014I\u2019ll tear this place apart! I\u2019ll ask my father for your stones as a Midwinter gift. I\u2019ll have his dogs mount your dead corpse. DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA WHO I AM?\u201d - Simply amazing. 3) I cried at several places, again in NotW when Kvothe played for his talent pipes at the Eolian and sang The Lay of Sir Savien Traliard, singing the part of Savien while Denna sang the part of Aloine. I cried like a school girl who lost her lunch at the end, just as Kvothe did, all the while laughing at myself for being a reader, played by Rothfuss who masterfully controlled my emotions. Such a wonderful scene. But damn if Denna isn't such a flighty minx. Just when I was beginning to like her....UGH!! ...more Patrick Rothfuss sang to me. Literally sang \u201cYou are my sunshine\u201d to me last Sunday. More on that later. I didn\u2019t want this book to end. When I was within sprinting distance of the end, I actually put the book down, bought groceries, and vacuumed the stairs. (My husband was pleasantly surprised.) I wanted so desperately to savor those last fifty pages that the parking lot at Target didn\u2019t seem like an ideal location. Thus, I acted like a normal human for a couple hours until I could curl on my co Patrick Rothfuss sang to me. Literally sang \u201cYou are my sunshine\u201d to me last Sunday. More on that later. I didn\u2019t want this book to end. When I was within sprinting distance of the end, I actually put the book down, bought groceries, and vacuumed the stairs. (My husband was pleasantly surprised.) I wanted so desperately to savor those last fifty pages that the parking lot at Target didn\u2019t seem like an ideal location. Thus, I acted like a normal human for a couple hours until I could curl on my couch and dive back in with no distractions or guilt. In my opinion, it is better than the first book. Kvothe is growing older and we see more of his development into a traditional hero. He picks up some requisite skills as a lover and a fighter. He progresses in his magical studies. He still makes mistakes and doesn\u2019t (at least not immediately) succeed at everything. He goes on fun adventures, meets interesting characters, and is stunningly clever. My two main complaints about the first book, Name of the Wind are as follows: (1) the long, corny side story about the almost-dragon undergoing drug withdrawals and (2) the lack of a global crisis to propel the story forward. The first critique is overcome. This book is even more engaging and varied than the first. The second compliant, however, still applies. Kvothe is searching for information regarding the Chandrian and I can see how this motivates his direction throughout the book. But I need more. Right now this remains a frustratingly slow and personal mission. I need to know that the Chandrian are threatening the very functioning of the world. I need a Sauron-esque menace sending dark clouds over the world and breeding armies. He uses the outside frame of the story to hint that trouble abounds in the present-day world, but it is not enough. And here are some of my random impressions: * Elodin cracks me up. I love his teaching antics. * Is it just me or is the Felurian section unnecessarily long? * The Adem plotline is awesome . Their whole system of communication is a nice creation. * The frame story continues to bore me. I started to resent the time it took me away from the larger story. * The concept of watching one\u2019s reputation enlarge and morph continues and is well done. * <---C>Bast</---C> is an enigma. * We continue to get a coin-by-coin account of Kvothe\u2019s purse: spent four drabs on new shirt, have three talents left, earned one talent in Fishery, spent three coins on much needed food, recalculated interest on debt with Devi. Part of me loves it. Part of me wants Kvothe to use Quicken already. Back to the serenade. Pat (yes, we are on a first name basis) came to a small bookstore, Murder by the Book in Houston. I arrived an hour and a half early to find the seats claimed long ago. By the time Pat arrived, the 300+ people were spilling out the doors into the parking lot. Crowds generally freak me out, but Pat was worth it. The feeling of camaraderie with my fellow nerds also helped. He started off by saying he\u2019s only been awake for fifteen minutes. He talked about how surreal the book tour had been thus far \u2013 never more so than when a fan showed off their tattoo of Pat\u2019s signature. He didn\u2019t talk much about A Wise Man\u2019s Fear on the grounds of being vehemently anti-spoiler. He mentioned how various elements were missing from the original draft of Name of the Wind (the outside frame story, Auri, and such). He told us about Tunnel Bob. He wanted Ambrose to be a real threat to Kvothe \u2013 a lesson learned from Harry Potter\u2019s nemesis, Malfoy who he thought had the wealth and influence to be a true menace but remained ineffectual. He fussed lovingly over the babies in the crowd. Pat teased that the third book would be \u201clongish\u201d and published in a hundred years. Someone\u2019s cell phone rang during the talk \u2013 he raised an eyebrow in their direction and then mused that some of his holdovers from being a teacher didn\u2019t translate well to a book tour. People asked a lot of questions about his blog, which I had never read (shame on me \u2013 have since rectified this). He confessed to watching lots of bad fantasy and science fiction movies, but only, of course, so he could make a checklist of all the bad clich\u00e9s to avoid in his books. His beard is impressive. He signed books for hours . Bottom line: Pat was funny, personable, and truly appreciative of his fans. Support him and indulge yourself in a little escapism. Read his books, people! ...more I have almost 1500 SF/F books in my database, and I've probably read 500 more that I forgot to list. I have never read a book that was simultaneously so bad and so good. I suspect that as time passes I will like it less. You know when you go to the local Enormous Portions restaurant and go with the meat in the rich gravy with the fries and onion rings, and the mud pie for dessert, and a couple of drinks, and you enjoy it all. Until near the end of the meal, when you don't feel so good; then you I have almost 1500 SF/F books in my database, and I've probably read 500 more that I forgot to list. I have never read a book that was simultaneously so bad and so good. I suspect that as time passes I will like it less. You know when you go to the local Enormous Portions restaurant and go with the meat in the rich gravy with the fries and onion rings, and the mud pie for dessert, and a couple of drinks, and you enjoy it all. Until near the end of the meal, when you don't feel so good; then you can't sleep because your stomach hurts; then it gets worse? Like that. It's a page turner. Interesting characters do interesting things. You want to know what happens next, so you don't stop to reflect. I never did like Denna. I'll give Rothfuss credit for being brave in showing us a probable reason for her approach to life, but it's dangerous ground. Or perhaps the author just heard Richard Thompson's song \"Beeswing,\" which describes Denna perfectly. With or without that reason, by the end of the book I just wanted to stuff Denna into a wood-chipper, then put the chips in a blender, then put the result into a strong acid, then go an invent a time machine and go back to a time when I had ever heard of Denna and stop the early me from reading about her. [ spoilers after this ] The first several hundred pages were a boring rehash. Never mind that. I first became uneasy when Kvothe went out after the bandits. They're looking for bandits. They see a band of men. Without further discussion, they slaughter them all. Step 1 of \"some people need killing,\" a theme we'll hear again. Then I noticed that perhaps 0.05 percent of all the people in Kvothe's world ever notice that he's in his mid-teens. Then the author tells us that 16-year-old Kvothe knows ten thousand songs and stories. Sure. We are told that this is possible because he and ALL his clan can always remember a song perfectly after hearing it once. We are reminded that he is the best lutenist in the world, at 16, and he even says that he is. Sure. I give Rothfuss full credit for finally telling us that there are some things Kvothe is not good at. Then he spoils it by suggesting that it's only because they don't interest him. There's no doubt that he could become the world's best in an hour if he wanted to. Then, after all that, he makes very slow progress in the Adem way. I like the way Rothfuss leads us into thinking Kvothe is learning something from the Adem. Then he leaves them, and within a very short time he's slaughtering another dozen baddies. This time the \"some people need killing\" is actually spoken right out. He also crosses the continent, often on foot, carrying a heavy box full of money that never seems to get in the way or slow him down. The antigravity properties of his new cloak were never mentioned but they must be there. Ah, the cloak. Made by Felurian. Jesus on a tricycle, can this book really have had an editor? I can't imagine that a professional editor would leave this Felurian part in the book at all, let alone at the length it is. It's time he got laid? You can do that in two pages. He needs a magic cloak? Same thing. But no, he has to outwit a millennia-old fairy while demonstrating that despite zero experience he is already the best cocksman in history. Puh-leeze. As other have mentioned, there are a lot of cardboard characters. But the Maer is very good. Kilvin, Hespe and some of the Adem are good. Elodin and Bast we can't decide about, but they are interesting. Auri's too weird, and seems tacked on, but no doubt she'll be important later. The Adem culture was a good piece of worldbuilding; the Severen culture OK but not great. In the end, this is just another \"ridiculously talented kid from the poor side of town overcomes all obstacles, reluctantly shoulders burden of being the guy who judges everyone and slaughters many of them while women swoon at his feet.\" For that, I'd rather read about Drizzt the Dark Elf. And I admit that Rothfuss has left us some broad hints that Kvothe has a lot of growing up to do. That might fix some of the above. But for something like this only better, I'd go to Lois McMaster Bujold's \"Chalion\" series. Fairness: This is a genre people like, and within that genre it is an excellent book. I just don't care for the genre any more, and it's probably because I am old and have read a lot of them. In 2015 2016 2017 or so, Rothfuss is going to write a REALLY GREAT book for grownups. LATER ADDITION: I admit that it is also possible that Rothfuss is going to stun us in book 3 with some plot developments that make everything fall into place as the characters mature, and we realize that the trilogy is some form of \"with great power comes great responsibility\" lesson. ...more Prologue: There was an echo of three parts. The first echo was the most obvious one. It told of promises unfullfilled, questions unanswered and time invested. It was an echo of frustration. The second echo was more subtle. A yawning of the mind reverberating through synapses untrained. It was an echo of boredom. The final echo felt like a spiral, winding its way ever downward, digging deeper into the matter of things. It was an echo of reviews within reviews within reviews. Chapter 1: \"The wise man's Prologue: There was an echo of three parts. The first echo was the most obvious one. It told of promises unfullfilled, questions unanswered and time invested. It was an echo of frustration. The second echo was more subtle. A yawning of the mind reverberating through synapses untrained. It was an echo of boredom. The final echo felt like a spiral, winding its way ever downward, digging deeper into the matter of things. It was an echo of reviews within reviews within reviews. Chapter 1: \"The wise man's fear,\" the reviewer said, \"is a book you can't simply review.\" He shifted toward his audience. \"Why is that?\" one eager listener asked. \"Because one doesn't simply dislike it like a twilight on an autumn eve. It's neither black, nor white, nor is it colored in fifty shades of grey.\" \"But you loved the first book, didn't you?\" the eager listener went on. \"Indeed,\" the reviewer said. \"I loved the Name of the Wind.\" Another member of the audience stood, waving a spoonful of chilli. \"With my magic beans here, I can call the name of the wind as well. And guess what, it stinks!\" Nervous laughter from the audience vanished quickly after looking at the reviewer's stern face. \"One does not mock what is disliked!\" the reviewer said. \"You treat it with respect, cause others may hold dear what's not to your taste.\" The spoon swinger sat down, his face burning like a red hot chilli pepper. \"So, you can't use humor in a review?\" the eager listener asked. \"Oh, on the contrary,\" smiled the reviewer. \"Let me tell you of my first approach to review then.\" Chapter 2: It was the time, when 3D was watched with glasses on your nose. I sat in the cinema to see the newest Johnny Depp movie, an epic 5 hour piece about film-making. I had my glases on, a six-pack of beer and my nachos. I always had nachos. With cheese that could stretch as long as the wheel of time. As the movie started I was excited. There he was. Johnny Depp. He entered a white room. Nobody entered a room like Johnny Depp. It was graceful, an art of walking never to be seen again. A walking dead to our modern society, lost on an island of purgatory. In the white room a simple chair awaited Johnny and there he sat. As simple as that. Sat there like noone else could, beautifully, but without moving again. After two hours of watching Johnny Depp sitting in 3D, I fell asleep and found myself transported into the white room. \"Hello there,\" said Johnny Depp. \"Wow, I mean, hi,\" I said. \"So, what are you doing in my movie?\" asked Johnny Depp. Nobody asked a question as eloquently as Johnny Depp. \"What are you doing here, Johnny Depp? You do nothing since 2 hours, you just sit there! Where's the movie?\" I asked. \"Well, does there have to be action in it? Can't it just be beautiful without anything happening?\" Johnny asked uniquely. \"But what's the point?\" I inquired. \"It's not a movie. It's a movie about movie-making and therefore it needs no real movie.\" \"Now my head hurts,\" I said. \"You confuse me in my own dream. Wait a minute. It is my dream, isn't it?\" \"It is, I believe,\" said Johnny. \"Let me guess. You ask yourself why you're talking to me, when you could talk to, let's say, a sexy actress?\" He smiled at that. \"Yeah,\" I admitted, shifting my foot uncomfortably. \"Allright then, which sexy actress do you like?\" Johnny asked. \"Rachelle LeFevre, she's adorable!\" I said without hesitation. \"Can't do that, she's still trapped under the dome at CBS. You know how they are, you don't wanna mess with them.\" \"That's true,\" I said. \"Well, may I then speak with Natalie Portman?\" \"Of course,\" said Natalie Portman. Wow, this Johnny Depp was a fantastic actor! \"What a great white room this is,\" she said. \"It would be the perfect set for a movie about movie-making.\" \"Really?\" I asked. \"Definately! So, what do you want to talk about? The Black Swan?\" \"Oh wow, I didn't know you were into the New Avengers, Natalie Portman. She's one of my favourite characters there.\" Natalie looked puzzled and remained silent. \"Well,\" I said. \"I want to write this review about a book I wasn't that fond of and I don't know how to start.\" \"Really? For somebody who doesn't know how to start, you wrote a lot already. Do you think somebody is still reading at this time?\" \"Probably not,\" I admitted. \"Anyway,\" Natalie said. \"Shouldn't you start with summary of what happened?\" \"I'm not so sure there happened anything, like in this movie.\" \"So, who is the main character?\" Natalie asked. \"He's called Kvothe.\" I said. \"Shut up! I know him. He's great, we're Facebook friends!\" Natalie produced a laptop from out of nowhere. That Johnny Depp is really sleight of hand, if you ask me. \"So, let me see,\" she said. \"Ah there he is. Look at his status update: Still at the university, took a term off to work for a foreign government. Did a lot of camping there, picked up karate and a new language, got laid a lot. Fun summer.\" \"Does he say anything about his relation with Denna?\" I asked. \"Relationship status says: It's complicated,\" replied Natalie. \"So, where is your problem? This seems to be great content for a nice novella of 150 pages.\" \"Yep, but it's a 1000+ pages book.\" I said. \"Is it beautifully written?\" she asked. \"I suppose,\" I supposed. \"Then where's your problem? Get your shit together!\" \"Wow, Natalie Portman. You just said \"shit\" on a public review.\" \"I said \"fuck\" on Conan O'Brien last year, so what?\" \"True dat. So, one last question, Natalie. If you know Kvothe, why is he so irresistable to women in the book. I mean...would you...you know...?\" \"Oh, of course, if I wasn't in a happy relationship and had a baby. He's just great, it doesn't have to be logical. You know, it's still called fantasy.\" Chapter 3: \"That wasn't much of a review at all!\" screamed the eager listener. \"Does it have to be?\" the reviewer asked. \"Of course! What good is a review, where you review nothing?\" \"It has the same value as a story about storytelling without telling a story.\" the reviewer explained. \"But aren't you afraid that nobody likes your review?\" \"Not at all. If you like a story without story, then you like a review without review. And if you don't like the review, you may not like the story and therefore like the review. I can't loose,\" said the reviewer. \"But what if somebody likes the story, but hates your review?\" The reviewer smiled. \"Now that, my friend, is a wise man's fear!\" Epilogue: There was a hope of three parts. The first part was a rustling of pages, of future deeds and revelations. It was a hope of satisfaction. The second part was a quickening of pace, of new places and faces. It was a hope of excitement. And the final part was crackling of marble, the screeching of hinges, the opening of a new path. It was a hope of a door of stones. ...more EDIT: So, I've decided to change my rating to 5 stars. How can I not when the story is so epic and my attachment to Kvothe keeps growing?! Original review: Not sure whether to rate this 4 or 5 stars yet, but I think I'll end up probably changing it to 5. There's something about these stories that you know will stay with you for a while. The more you think about it, the better it becomes. And the more you begin to love and appreciate it. I definitely preferred this instalment to the first book. Th EDIT: So, I've decided to change my rating to 5 stars. How can I not when the story is so epic and my attachment to Kvothe keeps growing?! Original review: Not sure whether to rate this 4 or 5 stars yet, but I think I'll end up probably changing it to 5. There's something about these stories that you know will stay with you for a while. The more you think about it, the better it becomes. And the more you begin to love and appreciate it. I definitely preferred this instalment to the first book. Though slow-burning it was, I remember getting slightly bored with the first book at times. This sequel, however, I experienced it only for a moment, and for the behemoth of a book it is, I was surprised by that. It was slow in the best possible way. The pacing was right on! It's so intricate and so detailed and you can tell that so much effort has gone into placing and choosing every word. There's so much love behind it! This book carried right from where it left off when the first book ended, and I love that addition to the story. It's such a unique point. Just a continuation of the story. Literally, the next day. The world is bigger and better and there's so much Rothfuss explores and adds to this incredibly, magical story. The writing is impeccable and beautiful and delicious and it carries you to its world and fully draws you in. It's an absolute joy to read. I fell in love with Kvothe even more and I'm dying to see how his story will conclude and how Rothfuss will make it come round full-circle. There's still so much mystery and sadness surrounding the main character and how he came to be the man he is now and quite frankly, I'm terrified that something will happen to him. Just give us the third book already. We beg of you. ...more *4.5* WOW. wOwWowWOw. I can't really form sentences right now (at the time I'm writing this, I literally spent the past 15 hours reading this book. yeah), so I'll just make a couple of lists here. Things I liked (or rather loved) about the book -Kvothe -Kvothe's insane growth as a character and just as a human -Kvothe's friends (I want my very own Simmon, please + thx) -it's so fucking funny guys you have no idea -getting to see different parts of the world -getting to experience different cultures in th *4.5* WOW. wOwWowWOw. I can't really form sentences right now (at the time I'm writing this, I literally spent the past 15 hours reading this book. yeah), so I'll just make a couple of lists here. Things I liked (or rather loved) about the book -Kvothe -Kvothe's insane growth as a character and just as a human -Kvothe's friends (I want my very own Simmon, please + thx) -it's so fucking funny guys you have no idea -getting to see different parts of the world -getting to experience different cultures in this world -Kvothe's time with the Maer. I could have read an entire book about that, for real -Elodin being insane -Kvothe -How Bast is just a mindfuck of a character. HE GETS MORE CREEPY AND INTERESTING WITHIN THE LAST CHAPTERS OF BOTH OF THESE BOOKS. AH. Things I didn't like about the book -Denna. I liked her in the first book, but I'm just so over her shit -there were about 100 or 200 pages around the middle that dragged on... however, looking back on them, I can see that important things happened in them, I just felt like it could have been condensed a bit -all the ladies throwing themselves at Kvothe all the time. Like once or twice, I get. But EVERYBODY? damn. he's like 16 guys chill. In some ways I actually liked this one more than the first book, but the three things I mentioned above just bugged me a bit too much to love it more as a whole. As a point of reference, I read this book in half the time it took me to read The Name of the Wind ..... and this book is 350 pages longer. so. there's that. ...more 4.5 stars If, like me, you were so impressed with The Name of the Wind that you neglected all but the most pressing business until you turned the final page, you may have decided to give it a quick re-read in anticipation of the sequel. If you did, you probably spotted this quote in Chapter 43: There are three things all wise men fear: the sea in storm, a night with no moon, and the anger of a gentle man. After a long but worthwhile wait, we now have the second novel in The Kingkiller Chronicle, an 4.5 stars If, like me, you were so impressed with The Name of the Wind that you neglected all but the most pressing business until you turned the final page, you may have decided to give it a quick re-read in anticipation of the sequel. If you did, you probably spotted this quote in Chapter 43: There are three things all wise men fear: the sea in storm, a night with no moon, and the anger of a gentle man. After a long but worthwhile wait, we now have the second novel in The Kingkiller Chronicle, and its title refers directly back to the quote: The Wise Man\u2019s Fear. (And by the way, if you didn\u2019t feel like rereading book one, Patrick Rothfuss posted a wonderful web comic recap on his blog.) Saying that the level of anticipation for The Wise Man\u2019s Fear was high is an understatement, especially given that The Name of the Wind was only Patrick Rothfuss\u2019 debut. It\u2019s not as if this is the concluding volume of a long multi-volume saga, decades in the making. The Name of the Wind struck such a powerful chord with many readers that, before long, messages started popping up left and right, complaining that things were taking too long and couldn\u2019t he write a bit more quickly? Well, merciful Tehlu be praised, Patrick Rothfuss took his time, polishing and refining his manuscript until it stood up to his own standards. The result is The Wise Man\u2019s Fear, a novel that for the most part fulfills the promise of The Name of the Wind. You\u2019ll find the same sweeping prose, deft characterization, rousing adventure, emotional highs and lows, and just plain and simple gripping reading of the \u201cI couldn\u2019t put this book down even if my house caught fire around me\u201d variety. Also, there\u2019s much more of it, in terms of sheer length. Weighing in at about 1,000 pages, The Wise Man\u2019s Fear is a heftier tale with a much broader scope. Where most of The Name of the Wind was set in and around the University, the sequel starts off there but soon has Kvothe venturing out into the world. As a result, some of the blank spaces on the map start to get filled in, giving this fantasy world a welcome new level of depth. Make no mistake, Kvothe is still front and center, but the details of the world\u2019s geography are starting to come into focus, as well as its history, with the central mystery still being the exact nature of the Chandrian and the Amyr. And Kvothe... is still Kvothe. One of the most memorable characters to appear in fantasy in the last decade, he again carries the tale easily. Let\u2019s not forget that The Name of the Wind\u2019s blurb, as well as the title of the series, seemed to spell out several major plot points: anyone who read the back cover of The Name of the Wind knew the edited highlights of Kvothe\u2019s life even before opening the book. How often do you see that, and even if you did, how often did it actually succeed? Here, Patrick Rothfuss makes it work purely on the strength of his main character. Kvothe, telling his own story to the patient Chronicler, has so much sheer panache that his personality has the same effect as a minor tsunami on the people around him. In some ways, he\u2019s like a taller, more musically gifted version of Lois McMaster Bujold\u2019s Miles Vorkosigan. Sure, when he describes a noble as being as \u201cself-centered as a gyroscope\u201d, you can\u2019t help but think that this could easily apply to him too, but his charm, brilliance and inexorable forward momentum easily make up for it. Then \u2014 next brilliant trick \u2014 to forestall those readers who might get annoyed at an impossibly brilliant and already semi-legendary character, the framing story shows us a much different present-day Kvothe, now going by the name Kote, who seems to be a shadow of his former self: a small town innkeeper with the lowest of profiles and the gentlest demeanour. The fact that we still don\u2019t know exactly how we got from Kvothe the high-flying warrior-arcanist-singer to Kote the soft-spoken innkeeper creates the tension that makes these novels so powerful. Evil is abroad, war is coming, and Kvothe, so different from how he describes himself in his story, hints that he is somehow responsible \u2014 and, to top it all, we still don\u2019t know exactly how and why. Maybe most disturbing (or exciting, depending on your perspective and amount of patience): if Kvothe is recounting his past to Chronicler in three days, does that mean that the real conclusion of the story, describing the current and future state of the world, will only follow in books 4, 5, 6... ? Regardless,The Wise Man\u2019s Fear is another excellent novel. Just getting to read more about the young, brilliant Kvothe at the University is a pleasure, although it did feel as if the first few hundred pages of this novel moved a bit more slowly and actually could have been part of the first book, with Kvothe\u2019s eventual departure making a perfect starting point for the sequel. Then again, we know this is meant to be one long tale split across three days of narration by present-day Kvothe to Chronicler, so it makes sense to think of these books as one big story with somewhat arbitrary cut-off points. (And oh, I don\u2019t think it\u2019s a spoiler to mention that the ending of this novel is once again of the somewhat anti-climactic \u201cand then they all went to sleep to continue the story the next day\u201d variety.) Patrick Rothfuss\u2019s prose is still a pleasure to read. He does high comedy as expertly as heart-breaking tragedy. He occasionally throws out a sentence that\u2019s so perfectly on point, it\u2019s not hard to see why his book-signing events draw such huge crowds: Hespe\u2019s mouth went firm. She didn\u2019t scowl exactly, but it looked like she was getting all the pieces of a scowl together in one place, just in case she needed them in a hurry. If the plotting is sometimes a bit transparent, with the timing and sequence of some events being so convenient that it flirts with improbability, it\u2019s all easy to forgive because \u2014 and this is really all that matters, in the end \u2014 The Wise Man\u2019s Fear is more sheer fun to read than most fantasy novels I\u2019ve read since \u2014 well, since The Name of the Wind, come to think of it. Plus, we finally get to read the bit about Felurian... If you\u2019re looking for solid, character-driven, consistently entertaining but occasionally quite dark fantasy that has more heart than several other series combined, you couldn\u2019t do much better than Patrick Rothfuss\u2019 KINGKILLER CHRONICLE. And now the long wait begins for book 3... (This review was also published at www.fantasyliterature.com on 3/1/2011.) ...more I like stories where I cannot predict what will happen next. Patrick Rothfuss writes stories like that. Good solid characters and a plot that unfolds as unpredictably as life itself. I finished this last night....finally. While there are moments in this book of brilliant writing they are (for me) interspersed with LLLLOOONNNGGG stretches of yawningly boring prose. Had the book been maybe two thirds it's length I think it could have been better. Without spoilers I found that the story of Kvothe wanders along getting almost nowhere...yes I know we established some more of it here, but not a lot and we're about where we were in a lot of ways. The story in the book's \"present\" is I finished this last night....finally. While there are moments in this book of brilliant writing they are (for me) interspersed with LLLLOOONNNGGG stretches of yawningly boring prose. Had the book been maybe two thirds it's length I think it could have been better. Without spoilers I found that the story of Kvothe wanders along getting almost nowhere...yes I know we established some more of it here, but not a lot and we're about where we were in a lot of ways. The story in the book's \"present\" is just as annoying and bogged down...and then we've got the \"Denna story line\". The thing keeps putting me in mind of Great Expectations with her \"come here, come here, come here, get away, get away, get away\" relationship with \"our young hero\" and his \"please let me be around even if you need to walk on me\" attitude. We even get one (seeming) coincidence that's worthy of Dickens. By the time I finished this last night (and I sat up late, I'd made up my mind to get through it) I was slightly torn as there are interesting elements to the story but I was heartily sick of trudging through all the excess verbiage to get to the story. Will I follow it up and continue the series? Maybe. If it takes another three to six years for the next book to come out, the memory of the frustration will probably have faded a bit. If the library gets it, I probably will, but I don't plan to buy it. But I live in hope. Who knows I may love the next volume. I noted that here and on Amazon this book gets a lot of 5 ratings and a lot of 1 ratings. It seems to be loved and hated both (by different people of course, we'll hope). I go with two...not just to be different, but because I was constantly getting interested just to be then driven to distraction by it each time. I think the problem for me may be that I'm just not caught up in the Kvothe character. I don't actually \"like\" him, I'm not caring about the people. So...for me 2 stars. if you love these books, great I am happy for you. I hope I like the next one better. (view spoiler) [I found that once the story within a story got started I was mildly \"re-interested\" in the book. BUT it takes so long to move from point to point. We wander around SSSSOOOO much. It took the Mayor forever to to spell out what he wanted (yet only 8 days passed as Kvothe still had a couple of days to pick up his Lute). The same with wandering around in the forest. So much of that had little or nothing to do with the plot, the characters or the story line in any way...we finally get to Faerie and still the story has \"draggy bits\" as readers in the UK might say. To drop back, something else...when Kvothe \"ended up broke again\" I could have screamed. Ship disaster at sea...hock lute.... no money PLEASE! And oh yes...Kvothe travels a THOUSAND FREAKING MILES AND DENNA HAPPENS TO BE IN TOWN! Coincidence? Dickens.... The only time this book surprised me was when the Mayor's lady love didn't turn out to be Denna. I figured Kvothe would have to help the Mayor win her. At least we escaped that. Oh well. If you like it sorry, please enjoy and forgive my rant... to each their own taste and I know many love this book. I also know it's selling really well, that says something I suppose. :) (hide spoiler) ] ...more 1.) The Name of the Wind \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 2.) The Wise Man's Fear \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 2.4) The Lightning Tree \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 2.5) The Slow Regard of Silent Things \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 3.) Doors of Stone n/a This review is going to contain mild spoilers and theory crafting, so I have to caution you while reading this if you are not familiar with this amazing world. \u201cI do this so you cannot help but hear. A wise man views a moonless night with fear.\u201d Obviously I'm being a little bit presumptuous, but I believe The Kingkiller Chronicles will be the bes 1.) The Name of the Wind \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 2.) The Wise Man's Fear \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 2.4) The Lightning Tree \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 2.5) The Slow Regard of Silent Things \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 3.) Doors of Stone n/a This review is going to contain mild spoilers and theory crafting, so I have to caution you while reading this if you are not familiar with this amazing world. \u201cI do this so you cannot help but hear. A wise man views a moonless night with fear.\u201d Obviously I'm being a little bit presumptuous, but I believe The Kingkiller Chronicles will be the best trilogy I've ever read. And I've read a lot of trilogies, and none of them can hold a candle to this masterpiece. \u201cNo man is brave that has never walked a hundred miles. If you want to know the truth of who you are, walk until not a person knows your name. Travel is the great leveler, the great teacher, bitter as medicine, crueler than mirror-glass. A long stretch of road will teach you more about yourself than a hundred years of quiet.\u201d Most the time I think the second installment of trilogies feel like complete filler books. Unnecessary information gets thrown at you left and right, while completely wasting your time and giving you a cliff hanger from hell. Everything in this book feels well thought-out and meaningful. I knew every piece of information was part of a larger puzzle, and I just tried to grasp every piece I could because I knew it was purposeful. The story telling in this book is seriously unmatchable. This book picks right back up where The Name of the Wind left off. It is day two for Kvothe, so he's in The Waystone Inn telling his story to the Chronicler while Bast listens along. This book's stories take him all over Tenerant on quite a few adventures that are all an absolute joy to read. This book definitely dabbles in a few darker situations that Kvothe ends up in, but he handles them all beautifully, even though he tricks you into thinking he isn't. We also meet lots of new and very interesting characters that help make the story even more perfect. I have to touch on how hard I'm fan-girling over Felurian. I don't care if she ends up good or bad, I completely loved her. She is literally a Fae siren, which if any of you know my in real life you'd know the stars aligned for me when this character was written. Kvothe traveling through the Eld Forest , and then entering into The Fae was my favorite moments of this whole series. I am dying to understand how The Cthaeh. works and what will come from the cryptic messages it told Kvothe. I don't know as much of The Cthaeh, Felurian, or The Faen realm as I'd like, but I just had to gush about how much I loved it all (especially Felurian though, I am seriously crushin'). It's also good to note that Felurian and Bast have similar titles; Felurian is the Lady of the Twilight and Bast is Prince of the Twilight and the Telwyth Mael. My friend brought it to my attention that they think Kvothe's mother and Lady Lackless are sisters, because of what Lady Lackless says to Kvothe when he is courting her for Maer Alveron. Then there is a song that Kvothe sings in the The Name of the Wind when he is still with his troupe, then his mother scolds him for singing it and it is about Lady Lackless. I love this theory and think it's pretty sound. Oh, and the final book's title name is Doors of Stone , and I can think of three doors; the one in the archives, the one in the Underthing where Auri lives, and a third that is mentioned in the song about Lady Lackless. *excitement intensifies* As soon as I finished this book I immediately had to look up other's fan theories on who Master Ash really is. I completely fell in love with the theory that he is Cinder. Like, how freakin' amazing would that be? I'm 100% going to obsess over this while waiting for Doors of Stone . I also listened to a podcast and at the end (about the 1:40:00 mark) one of the guys makes a beautiful revelation about how Cinder being Denna's patron could be because she has powers that will make people believe her, and with the song he's having her write, they could rewrite the history and make the world believe a completely different set of events. Ahhhh, it gives me goose bumps it's so perfect! Again, I fell in love with Pat by watching his stream of Fallout 4 for a charity he runs, Worldbuilders . I cannot stress enough how wonderful this cause is and how you should check it out. Mr. Rothfuss being a good human is just an added bonus to him writing the best fantasy books I've ever read. \u201cIt had flaws, but what does that matter when it comes to matters of the heart? We love what we love. Reason does not enter into it. In many ways, unwise love is the truest love. Anyone can love a thing because. That's as easy as putting a penny in your pocket. But to love something despite. To know the flaws and love them too. That is rare and pure and perfect.\u201d Twitter | Tumblr | Instagram | Youtube | Steam | Twitch ...more OK Kvothe is always making the most stupid decisions. But now it's been two days since I finished this book and I MISS HIM. I need the third installment and I know I won't get it anytime soon. The first third of The Wise Man\u2019s Fear is a repeat of the plot conflicts of The Name of the Wind. Kvothe is back at the University, but worries about tuition; Ambrose tries to ruin Kvothe\u2019s life; Kvothe loses his instrument, rhapsodizes about how much music means to him, and then gets it back; Denna comes and goes. After the Harry Potter setting is abandoned, the book goes into several side-conflicts that take up more time than they seem to warrant. And then the book ends. Once again, there is no The first third of The Wise Man\u2019s Fear is a repeat of the plot conflicts of The Name of the Wind. Kvothe is back at the University, but worries about tuition; Ambrose tries to ruin Kvothe\u2019s life; Kvothe loses his instrument, rhapsodizes about how much music means to him, and then gets it back; Denna comes and goes. After the Harry Potter setting is abandoned, the book goes into several side-conflicts that take up more time than they seem to warrant. And then the book ends. Once again, there is no overarching plot. Nominally Kvothe is still hunting the Chandrian, but there is so little development on that front that I really can\u2019t call it anything but a background issue. Instead, the book\u2019s main concern seems to be showing how the stories of Kvothe hinted at in The Name of the Wind were created by situations not nearly as extraordinary as expected (for a fantasy book). The nature of stories to take on a life of their own is not an altogether unique concern but one that does have potential; the problem, however, is that it is just not much fun to read about. The most exciting thing about The Name of the Wind were the hints of future heroic exploits by Kvothe, and revealing that these exploits are not as spectacular as they sound is not exactly a recipe for excitement. And there are still a lot of stories to go. Clearly there is too much for one trilogy - and that\u2019s okay. With a tight plot that uses these hints as context and setting, these events wouldn\u2019t necessarily need to be explained. They could be background depth, just as The Lord of the Rings is a story built upon an encyclopedia. Or the trilogy could have taken a broader view, and moved time quickly in order to hit the highlights. But The Kingkiller Chronicles takes a middle path in which the plot is in the background and the events that are described feel disjointed and irrelevant to each other. And I still don\u2019t care about Kvothe. He is still a smarmy know-it-all that is firmly encased in the author\u2019s protagonist armor. Kvothe does develop in some new ways: in the middle of the book the story suddenly becomes about sex. Kvothe is taught the arts of love by a beautiful faerie (*eyeroll*) and suddenly he is a womanizer. He then travels to a new culture where sex is not a taboo like it is in Kvothe\u2019s society (or in America). It is a fairly obvious ethnographic trope that I never found compelling or original. And after that there is a situation involving rape and racism. I appreciated the more nuanced representation of females when compared to The Name of the Wind, but it was also a bit jarring to suddenly have every conflict somehow involve sex when the subject had been absent for the first 1,500 pages of the series. The writing is generally of high quality, but dialogue has a tendency to be more explication than interaction and often comes off as melodramatic. For example, when Kvothe\u2019s heritage is insulted he launches into this dramatic declaration: \u201cAnd I am Edema Ruh to my bones. That means my blood is red. It means I breathe the free air and walk where my feet take me. I do not cringe and fawn like a dog at a man\u2019s title. That looks like pride to people who have spend their lives cultivating supple spines.\u201d It just doesn\u2019t feel like a real person\u2019s speech, unless that person is on a stage looking at an audience. Kvothe is presented as a master actor (one of the many skills he masters effortlessly), so perhaps that\u2019s the idea. But no one ever calls him on it in the book; nothing ever challenges Kvothe in a significant way. It gets old. The book comes off as a \u201cfantasy greatest hits\u201d written for the high school crowd, with the inconveniences of an overarching plot structure done away with. Too many issues are injected into conflict (racism, poverty, sexual politics, puberty) and none are dealt with in an original way. (But I still read all 900 pages of it.) ...more I thought that I had reached my limit of disliking the main character and the rambling story in the first book, but this took things to a WHOLE new level. I decided to read this because I was confused by the first book's high ratings and wanted to see if anything improved in the sequel. But guess what? Kvothe's still here. AND HE'S STILL BETTER THAN YOU. Instead of repeating my previous review about this special snowflake/Gary Stu, let me just leave the actual book description here: \"My name is Kvo I thought that I had reached my limit of disliking the main character and the rambling story in the first book, but this took things to a WHOLE new level. I decided to read this because I was confused by the first book's high ratings and wanted to see if anything improved in the sequel. But guess what? Kvothe's still here. AND HE'S STILL BETTER THAN YOU. Instead of repeating my previous review about this special snowflake/Gary Stu, let me just leave the actual book description here: \"My name is Kvothe. I have stolen princesses back from sleeping barrow kings. I burned down the town of Trehon. I have spent the night with Felurian and left with both my sanity and my life. I was expelled from the University at a younger age than most people are allowed in. I tread paths by moonlight that others fear to speak of during day. I have talked to Gods, loved women, and written songs that make the minstrels weep. You may have heard of me.\" Other things that haven't changed: still can't stand Denna. Still can't stand the way the author views and writes women. Still can't find the plot arc. NOTHING REALLY HAPPENED IN THIS BOOK. Seriously. Most of it felt like a repeat of the first book? Then the rest of the adventures were basically pointless. Like I can't even explain how much NOTHING mattered... I can barely lift this book, so it seems like something should have happened in those 994 pages. But it could pretty much just be summed up as \"Kvothe gets laid.\" I gave the first book 2 stars because the writing was decent, but even that isn't enough to save this mess. I am slightly impressed that the author managed to cover almost 1,000 pages in words, but that's the only positive thing I have to say. My blog | Tumblr | Twitter | Instagram ...more Good lord, this was okay, but it was bad at the same time. The first book was written way, way, way better. This one was just unnecessarily long and full of filler chapters that provide no substance to the overall story. Many \"arcs\" were dragging, like his time with Felurian (the scene with the all-knowing tree was cool, though) and his time training the art of Ketan. It dragged so much and I skipped a lot of pointless training scenes, and I didn't even miss anything substantial. I really need a Good lord, this was okay, but it was bad at the same time. The first book was written way, way, way better. This one was just unnecessarily long and full of filler chapters that provide no substance to the overall story. Many \"arcs\" were dragging, like his time with Felurian (the scene with the all-knowing tree was cool, though) and his time training the art of Ketan. It dragged so much and I skipped a lot of pointless training scenes, and I didn't even miss anything substantial. I really need an abridged version of this because it was just too much. Also, for someone so intelligent and clever, I detested how Kvothe made a lot of stupid decisions that left me utterly flabbergasted. They were so out-of-character that I question whether or not they were just put into there to \"force\" the events to happen. Let me put it into layman's terms. You're in a relationship. You think that nothing is really happening, that things have been absolutely uneventful, and you want something to spice it up. SO, you convince someone to flirt with you to make your boyfriend/girlfriend feel jealous. OR, you make fake accounts on the internet and have them flirt with you online to make your loved one angry. Sure, it's wrong, but it made things happen in your life, and that's what's important. It felt like that here. Many events felt so forced, so out-of-character for Kvothe that I just couldn't understand why it was put there. Like the time he tried to get the ring back from Ambrose by getting into his room, without a good plan. He's clever? Really? I expected much more than that. AND NOTHING REALLY HAPPENS! I FUCKING SWEAR - ALMOST A THOUSAND PAGES AND NOTHING REALLY HAPPENS! My god, thinking about it, this whole book was a filler. So he goes to university, is poor, filler, filler, he gets a term off, filler, filler, meets Denna again, filler, plays court intrigue with Alveron Maer, filler, fought with Denna, filler, went to a forest to catch bandits, filler, filler, filler, filler, had hot sex with a thousand year old fairy, 100x filler, learned the ways of the Ademre, 250x filler, came back to the university, is now rich, filler, filler, meets Denna again and they're okay now. WHUUUUUUUUUUUT. And what was even more annoying was how the interesting parts were left out. You see, Kvothe was arrested for calling the name of the wind in his confrontation with Ambrose. There was a trial that was so controversial that it aroused the interest of everyone! That everyone's talking about it! But do we see the trial according to Kvothe's eyes? NO! Because apparently, the narrator found it convenient to just skip it! Because it was a boring part of his life! WHAT THE FUCK. If it was so boring, why was it deemed scandalous? If it was so boring, why were people so amazed that you were able to convince you were innocent by using a few tricks? I don't get it. I really don't. Then on his way to Vintas, the ship he was on got pillaged by pirates, he drowned, he begged in the streets of Junpei, etc. etc. BUT OF COURSE IT WAS CONVENIENTLY SKIPPED, ONLY LASTED A PARAGRAPH OR TWO AND NEXT THING WE KNOW HE'S AT THE GATE OF SEVEREN. *FACEPALM* And now all I'm thinking is - I WASTED FOUR DAYS OF READING FOR THIS?????? So many hours I'll never have again :( P.S. There were too much sex. Too much unnecessary sex. He had numerous sex with the sex fairy, then became the god of sex when he got outside, at the age of 16. LOLOLOL. ...more I don't understand why I keep reading these books when they're poorly written, poorly plotted, sexist, shallow, and insulting to my intelligence. Kvothe is a douchebag, women exist solely for his emotional/sexual edification, and the entire plot is so painfully contrived that it makes me cringe. So actually, that's a lie. I do know why I keep reading these books: because I keep hoping that there will be a twist somewhere along the line where Kote is like LOL JUST KIDDING, I'M NOT ACTUALLY THAT GU I don't understand why I keep reading these books when they're poorly written, poorly plotted, sexist, shallow, and insulting to my intelligence. Kvothe is a douchebag, women exist solely for his emotional/sexual edification, and the entire plot is so painfully contrived that it makes me cringe. So actually, that's a lie. I do know why I keep reading these books: because I keep hoping that there will be a twist somewhere along the line where Kote is like LOL JUST KIDDING, I'M NOT ACTUALLY THAT GUY, AND THIS IS JUST AN ELABORATE SMEAR CAMPAIGN. This is just an exercise in trolling fantasy readers through the cunning use of an unreliable narrator, right? RIGHT? EDIT: I completely lost it when Elodin compared having to deal with Kvothe's stupidity with having to put up with sexual assault. NO. A THOUSAND TIMES NO. And this passes without any kind of acknowledgment from the admittedly sexist narrator, or even a nudge-nudge from the oblivious author. How the fuck did this trash get published? ...more After having finished this sequel in the Kingkiller Chronicles series, I'm now convinced that this is the best fantasy I've ever read! These books have everything: A beautiful narrative, stunning prose, the best plot and the most interesting characters. Patrick Rothfuss takes you on such a journey that you don't even realize that the books are 1000 pages long. You start reading and you want more and more. I can find no fault with this series. It has the largest library in the world, the coolest After having finished this sequel in the Kingkiller Chronicles series, I'm now convinced that this is the best fantasy I've ever read! These books have everything: A beautiful narrative, stunning prose, the best plot and the most interesting characters. Patrick Rothfuss takes you on such a journey that you don't even realize that the books are 1000 pages long. You start reading and you want more and more. I can find no fault with this series. It has the largest library in the world, the coolest university and the most diverse set of characters. It is brilliant and beautifully crafted, and you simply MUST read it :) ...more *Vinaya emerges from her cave, blinking owlishly at the sun* You gotta admire a man who can hold your interest through two days and 994 pages of more or less nonstop reading. The second installment of Patrick Rothfuss' Kingkiller Chronicles, The Wise Man's Fear, is just as compelling and beautifully written as the first. Kvothe returns in full glory to recount more of his adventures at the University, at Vintas and in Ademre. I was a little annoyed and more than a little impatient through most of *Vinaya emerges from her cave, blinking owlishly at the sun* You gotta admire a man who can hold your interest through two days and 994 pages of more or less nonstop reading. The second installment of Patrick Rothfuss' Kingkiller Chronicles, The Wise Man's Fear, is just as compelling and beautifully written as the first. Kvothe returns in full glory to recount more of his adventures at the University, at Vintas and in Ademre. I was a little annoyed and more than a little impatient through most of the book. Oh, I was still devouring pages and falling headlong into Kvothe's reality, but I couldn't see where the book was going . It took me a while to have my epiphany. This book is not going anywhere, anymore than the first book was. It's not like most fantasy, whose strength rests in the convolutions of the plotline. Don't expect the tale to have a progression that leads into a subplot, subtly furthering the main plot. There is NO main plot or subplot, as we understand them in the fantasy genre. This book is not so much a story as it is an autobiography. Yes, this is my big epiphany, and if everyone else has had it before me, I apologize. See, there were a lot of things that bothered me about this book. First was the fact that Kvothe was the only character really spotlit in this series. The second was that there were so many incidents, anecdotes and stories-within-stories in the narrative, and most of them didn't serve any purpose , plotwise. How does the Maer's poisoning, for example, play into the larger scheme of things? The answer is, it doesn't. However, let's assume for one second, that Kvothe is a real person, living in an actual world. Let us assume he is telling us his life story. Wouldn't his rescue of one of the richest, most important men in the world be something he was particularly proud of? Wouldn't it be an incident worth recounting? Once I realized that I was reading the book in entirely the wrong way, and needed a different set of expectations, I began to appreciate the \"barbarian cunning\" Rothfuss possesses. He can pour all of his role-playing fantasies into the book, through his hero, without having to worry about their relevance to the bigger picture, because the bigger picture IS the hero. The only time the book falls into standard fantasy storytelling tropes is during the interludes. Then we are presented with several mysteries, unanswered questions and some movement towards a larger picture looming at the end of the series. As usual, the book is beautifully written, prose and poetry melding seamlessly. I am still very un-fond of all the female characters in this book, although Rothfuss does flesh out Denna a little more. But really, I wasn't very happy with who he made her. She's like a mixture of Ayesha from She and Fantine from Les Mis\u00e9rables . Not my favourite characters, but that's my gripe, not a general one. Willem and Simmons also make a longer appearance in this book, portraying a strong, solid friendship, which was the one thing Kvothe lacked in his life until now. (view spoiler) [ Kvothe also finally begins to have sex, and once he starts, boy, he's hard to stop! This is also a very geeky thing to do; use an irresistible, older woman, or Fae in this case, to teach him all the tricks and make him an enviable lover. I already watched that movie, several times, thank you very much! (hide spoiler) ] And, of course, Bast and Chronicler make their own bid for popularity, despite being sidelined shamefully by the characters from Kvothe's past. All told, this is a great book, sure, but still ridiculously long. And I have a feeling the last book may have to be split into two parts, just to get the entirety of the story - past and present- done. I think The Wise Man's fear would have been the better for the loss of a couple of hundred pages. For me, it didn't have the same impact as The Name of the Wind , for several reasons. First, the sheer length of the book leads to a sort of disconnect; by the time you're halfway through the book, you've forgotten how the book starts. Second is a more personal reason. Patrick Rothfuss is one of maybe three authors whose blogs I read regularly. And being a verbose sort of man, Pat tends to blog very frequently. As a result, I have his 'written voice' fixed very firmly in my head. This written voice is also very clear in the Kingkiller Chronicles, so there were too many instances where I was distracted by Pat the real person, instead of Kvothe, Pat's character. I don't think I'm explaining it very well, but I also don't think it's something that'll bother anyone else anyway, so that's okay, I guess. Third is the fact that a lot of things that had been puffed up in the first book were downplayed in this one: Kvothe's time with the Ademre, for example. It wasn't half as impressive as I was expecting it to be. No doubt this was the effect that was intended, but I don't like teasers that turn out to be anti-climactic, so I feel entitled to complain about this. Fourth is what I like to call middle child syndrome. This generally happens to the middle book in a highly-anticipated trilogy; the build-up is greater than it ought to be, making you feel like the product is letting you down just that little bit. In comparison to most of the fantasy out there, The Wise Man's Fear is a five-star read. In comparison to The Name of the Wind, and my expectations for this book, it would only get a 4.5. But everything said, I am still a rabid fangirl with a massive author-crush on Patrick Rothfuss. My recommendation: read it, but be prepared for a long haul! ...more You know that feeling when you finish a book and think \"It wasn't as good as the first, i should rate it with less stars\", but then think \"It is still excellent, and doesn't deserve less than a perfect score\" ? That's the case here. TWMF wasn't the perfect, one in a million book as was TNOTW. It didn't gave us the answers we were seeking, it didn't followed the paths we desired, it didn't even gave us a conclusion on some open fronts. But it was still a great story, and once again, Rothfuss prov You know that feeling when you finish a book and think \"It wasn't as good as the first, i should rate it with less stars\", but then think \"It is still excellent, and doesn't deserve less than a perfect score\" ? That's the case here. TWMF wasn't the perfect, one in a million book as was TNOTW. It didn't gave us the answers we were seeking, it didn't followed the paths we desired, it didn't even gave us a conclusion on some open fronts. But it was still a great story, and once again, Rothfuss proved to us all what a magnificent storyteller he is. I consider myself lucky reading his books. You should read them too. :) \u201cIt's the questions we can't answer that teach us the most. They teach us how to think. If you give a man an answer, all he gains is a little fact. But give him a question and he'll look for his own answers.\u201d PS. If you want to read a more extensive review with better info about The Kingkiller Chronicle, you should read my review of The Name of the Wind You can find more of my reviews on http://booknest.eu ...more Not sure about the other reviewers, but I have actually read this book. It is really friggin' good, and I don't say that lightly. I will write a more detailed review closer to the pub date.", "Title": "The Wise Man's Fear"},
