{"Comments": "Really loved this book and it's story because I personally have never heard about this side of the war before and I'm so grateful I know about it now.<---F> This is not a pretty book</---F>. Even though I found this novel exceptionally well-written, it was not a pleasure to read. It\u2019s about Lithuanians displaced to Siberian work camps during World War II. It was pretty unflinchingly brutal, but here\u2019s why I think you ought to read it: 1. It is a side of World War II that you might not have seen before. I certainly hadn\u2019t heard these stories of displaced Europeans,<---M> and I have to say</---M>, having been to Lithuania on tour last year, it made so much of what they sai This is not a pretty book. Even though I found this novel exceptionally well-written, it was not a pleasure to read. It\u2019s about Lithuanians displaced to Siberian work camps during World War II. It was pretty unflinchingly brutal, but here\u2019s why I think you ought to read it: 1. It is a side of World War II that you might not have seen before. I certainly hadn\u2019t heard these stories of displaced Europeans, and I have to say, having been to Lithuania on tour last year, it made so much of what they said have deeper meaning. I found their fierce national pride lovely and charming when I was there; after this novel, it seems incredibly brave and honorable. 2. Mom. The mother is really the heroine of this story (and that is my one nitpick about this novel: the narrator has no arc and no agency \u2014 all of the action is carried by her mother and her sort-of-boyfriend). She has such an incredible flame and kindness in her. One of my favorite book moms. 3. Shades of gray. The title promises and the novel delivers. Characters we think are horrid actually do incredibly kind things, and character we regard as friends do awful ones. 4. If you combine 2 and 3, you get my favorite part, which is that it makes you look at people an entirely new way. I love books that stretch my brain, and this one sat with me for hours and hours. 5. Wonderful sense of place, even when the place isn\u2019t so wonderful. Like Lucy Christopher, I trust the author to take me someplace different, and I\u2019ll be picking up whatever she writes next. ...more Actual rating: 4.5 stars As soon as I saw this video , I knew I had to read this novel. <+++>Between Shades of Gray</+++> isn't the type of book I'd normally read, but I'm extremely glad that I decided to read it. Lina is a very strong and courageous character. Despite the situation Lina is placed in at the young age of fifteen, she audaciously chooses to write about the terrible cruelties the Soviets are doing to those around her as well as her family and herself. Lina is an artist, and she uses this talent Actual rating: 4.5 stars As soon as I saw this video , I knew I had to read this novel. <+++>Between Shades of Gray</+++> isn't the type of book I'd normally read, but I'm extremely glad that I decided to read it. Lina is a very strong and courageous character. Despite the situation Lina is placed in at the young age of fifteen, she audaciously chooses to write about the terrible cruelties the Soviets are doing to those around her as well as her family and herself. Lina is an artist, and she uses this talent to depict the ghastly scenes she's forces to witness on a daily basis. She then hides her drawings where the NKVD , hopefully, won't find them. In this she hopes that, one day, someone will find the proof of what really occurred, and make sure that it never happens again. I'm going to warn you, a good deal of this book is very grim and Sepetys doesn't cover up the horrors that were committed against these innocent people with euphemisms. There are quite a few shocking, disturbing, and graphic scenes in this. You'll probably want to read something light and fluffy after finishing it. But much like the title of the book and the fledging plant sprouting up from the ice covered landscape on the book's cover signifies hope, the author does a wonderful job of incorporating snippets of hope even through the most grim of times for her characters. Interspersed with Lina's time in the slavery camps, there are bittersweet flashbacks to Lina's life before her and her family were taken by the Soviets. I think they helped to break up the scenes of abuse and heartache, making the novel more palatable to the reader. There is also a light romance in this that is both sweet and a welcome addition to a story such as this. FAVORITE QUOTE: \"I shut the bathroom door and caught sight of my face in the mirror. I had no idea how quickly it was to change, to fade. If I had, I would have stared at my reflection, memorizing it. It was the last time I would look into a real mirror for more than a decade.\" <---A>Ruta Sepetys</---A>' writing is erudite, yet simple, and it flows very well. I just hope that this isn't one of those one-hit-wonder cases where the author has one story to tell and never writes anything again. I'd really like to read more from Sepetys, whether it be more stories such as this, or something completely different. On a side note, the finished, physical copy of this (I say it in this way because some people probably have an ARC or an ebook) is quite gorgeous. The jacket seems to be made of recycled paper, so it has a very natural, rustic look and feel to it. And it has deckled edges, my favorite. :) I think this is one of those books that will be highly praised by some (like myself), and sadly overlooked by others. It's easy to be distracted by the deluge of YA paranormal novels with the pretty covers and the pomp and heavy promotion, but, I assure you, Between Shades of Gray is more than worth your reading time. This book reminds me just how fortunate I am to be born in the era and country that I was, and I found it very humbling. I'm glad to have had the opportunity to read it, and I highly recommend it. ...more Exactly a year before, the Soviets have begun moving troops over the borders into the country. Then, in August, Lithuania was officially annexed into the Soviet Union. When I complained at the dinner table, Papa yelled at me and told me to never, ever say anything derogatory about the Soviets. He sent me to my room. I didn\u2019t say anything out loud after that. But I thought about it a lot. Despite her father\u2019s caution, 15-year-old Lena Vilkas, her 10-year-old brother Jonas and their mother Elena ar Exactly a year before, the Soviets have begun moving troops over the borders into the country. Then, in August, Lithuania was officially annexed into the Soviet Union. When I complained at the dinner table, Papa yelled at me and told me to never, ever say anything derogatory about the Soviets. He sent me to my room. I didn\u2019t say anything out loud after that. But I thought about it a lot. Despite her father\u2019s caution, 15-year-old Lena Vilkas, her 10-year-old brother Jonas and their mother Elena are charged as criminals and arrested in their home in Lithuania by Soviet officers. Lena\u2019s Papa didn\u2019t return from work the previous day and they don\u2019t even know if he\u2019s alive. The three of them are forced into a train car with forty-six other people, mostly women and children. Among them are Ona and her newborn baby, taken from the hospital just as soon as the umbilical cord was cut, Miss. Grybas, a perfectly harmless spinster teacher, a mean bald man, supposedly a stamp collector, Mrs. Arvydas, wife of a murdered Lithuanian officer, and her 17-year-old son Andrius, who has to pretend to be feeble-minded in order to stay with his mother. Needless to say, they are all treated like cattle. After spending more than 8 weeks in the train car with only two buckets of water and a bucket of food a day for all of them, they arrive to a beet farm where they\u2019re expected to work all day, most of them digging in frozen ground with hand shovels and bare hands. For months they have nothing but hunger and disease in labor camp, and just when they think things couldn\u2019t possibly get any worse, they get moved to Siberia - supposedly to build a factory, but in reality, they\u2019re just expected to die. Lena\u2019s story is powerful for many reasons. Of course none of us can stay indifferent to a story about so much suffering and Ruta Sepetys chose a very smart way to tell it. Her writing is very matter of fact, her sentences are short and to the point. She allowed herself very little emotion, thus giving the reader a chance to fill in the gaps. I think it was the only way to tell such a horrendous story without overdoing it. When I finished this book last night, I was completely grief-stricken. I thought: \u201cWhat am I supposed to do now? Am I supposed to just stand up and walk around like I didn\u2019t just take a long, hard look at the ugliest side of humanity?\u201d For the first time in my life, I felt that my education has failed me. How is it possible that we just went around all this, barely mentioning it? We dedicated so much time to Hitler and his victims (and we should have), but we\u2019re talking about 20 million people here! 20 million people they just omitted to tell us about. I\u2019m not saying I was completely clueless about it all, far from it, but I was never really confronted with it. And I absolutely needed to be. I think everyone should read Between Shades of Gray. Saying that it will help you appreciate the little things sounds like a horrible clich\u00e9, but it\u2019s also undeniably true. Just get ready to be crushed into pieces by all the atrocities and suffering this relatively short book describes. ...more 'Now my heart sank into my stomach where the bile began to chew it.' Step on my heart, cut it wide open, rub it with salt and feed it to the sharks.. Or just make me read this book, because this is how it feels like reading this story. How can I call \u201cwonderful\u201d a book full of so many horrors? ...But I will, because it really is, and what pains me the most is that it's all true, that this is a really tiny part of the darkest piece of our history as human beings. You thought this was repugnant?! Wel 'Now my heart sank into my stomach where the bile began to chew it.' Step on my heart, cut it wide open, rub it with salt and feed it to the sharks.. Or just make me read this book, because this is how it feels like reading this story. How can I call \u201cwonderful\u201d a book full of so many horrors? ...But I will, because it really is, and what pains me the most is that it's all true, that this is a really tiny part of the darkest piece of our history as human beings. You thought this was repugnant?! Well, think again because this was only the beginning. What was left unspoken is what repugnance is really about. I will confess that I was bracing myself for worse and even though for many of you some scenes were horrifying, I know that this was nothing compared with the horrors that have happened in that period of time. We learn about it in school, we know about it from books, there are movies and documentaries that will break your heart, because (I repeat) nothing hurts more than knowing that these things happened, it's not fiction - it's history, one written in blood and suffering... and death. This story touched me in a way I could barely explain. I felt so much disgust and anger that I could tear the book apart. It gave me so many goose bumps that I didn't remember for a quite while how smooth skin felt like. Yes, you were all right; this is a powerful story, full of emotion, that will make your soul bleed and your eyes tear. It's strange how can you find love and hope in such a hopeless place... The story was not as brutal as I thought it would be, but it broke my heart in many other ways: It was their hope that broke me down, their smiles, their jokes, and Lina's memories from long gone happy times (As a side note I should mention how much I loved the transition from present to past, how one scene melted into another, how the past faded right in front of my eyes). It was the love that killed me softly, it was seeing that those broken hearts could still find inside them the force to care when there wasn't almost any good left for them in the world. And it was their force to keep going that made me love this book, because they were stronger when their body was weak, when their life was fading away, when they still held tightly to their dreams - even though they knew those were never to come true again. The cover is absolutely perfect - It shows all the hope that filled their hearts, even when some of them were giving up their last breath. It reveals a piece of the settling, but also it shows that in all that coldness with which they were treated very few people showed them (just a bit of) mercy. The characters are so complex and they bring so much into this story - from the bald man with his pessimistic thoughts, to the little children so full of life and hope (too young, too innocent to know the cruelty of this world). It moved me how dramatically all those people changed through the story: kids had to grow up and help the others in order to survive, old people had to hold on to their memories to keep going, parents had to sacrifice everything for their children. They had to keep inside their fury, their hate and their shame. They had to keep their head down even though they were the ones deserving respect, because even when they had nothing at all, they still had hope and they fought for their life at all costs. I need to mention Lina an Andrius, as their love was sparkling like a tiny star thought the darkest, clouded night sky. It gave hope and strength and made my heart ache just a little bit less. \"Andrius, I'm ... scared\" He stopped and turned to me. \"No. Don't be scared. Don't give them anything, Lina, not even your fear.\" Through\u00a0the story, Lina saw the world and she described it in her sketches. Drawing was a way to express her fear, the injustice, the pain and the ache. That was her way of coping; gathering strength through her hope that some day her father will be able to reach them. I'll leave you now with some of my favorite quotes as I don't have the force to describe this book any longer. This is not a story that you can talk about; you can only read it between tears and maybe find some colors between so many shades of gray. \u201cI\u2019ll see you\u201d \u201cAre you really on page 300 or are you skipping ahead now?\u201d \u201cHave you ever wondered what a human life is worth? That morning, my brother's was worth a pocket watch.\u201d Reviewer notes: I\u00a0loved the author notes as they gave so much depth to the story and now I feel the need to leave my owns notes here, because even though I can't really conceive so much suffering, I can at least somehow understand it (though probably on a lower level that I might even think). \u201cHow could Stalin simply take something that didn\u2019t belong to him, something that a farmer and his family had worked their whole life for?\u201d \u201cThat\u2019s communism, Lina\u201d, Papa said. Living in a country placed between Germany and Russia, our history has been marked (with dark ink) by those two as well. I know what communism means and I even know a bit how it 'felt'. I was too young to understand what was happening but old enough to keep memories of my grandparents working the field each day, but only being allowed to keep some (very few) fruitage for themselves. But if for me it is sad to think about those times when we were only allowed to buy rations of food (like half of a bread a day), I can't even conceive how hard it might have been for those people that were 'unlucky' enough to be thrown in the middle of that madness described in this book, forced to work in such horrible conditions, humiliated and treated like animals, and even die horrible deaths while nobody cared. As the author says, there is nothing that we can do now to change the past, but we can learn from it, and we can prevent such\u00a0horrors\u00a0from ever happening again. PS: While reading the book I listened to the soundtrack , which is as amazing as the story itself and I recommend it with all my heart. This review can also be found at ReadingAfterMidnight.com ____________________________________________ Blog (EN) | Facebook | Twitter | Tumblr | Bloglovin' | Blog (RO) ____________________________________________ Later Edit: Movie? Really?! Oh.. I don't know if to be happy or scared. I LOVED the book, hopefully I will enjoy it on the big screen too ^_^ ...more These writings may shock or horrify you, but that is not my intention. It is my greatest hope that the pages in this jar stir your deepest well of human compassion. I hope they prompt you to do something, to tell someone. Only then can we ensure that this kind of evil is never allowed to repeat itself. So I read this last night, and I went to work this morning. I was so deeply affected by this story, and my mind kept drifting back to Lina and Jonas and the countless real victims of the Baltic These writings may shock or horrify you, but that is not my intention. It is my greatest hope that the pages in this jar stir your deepest well of human compassion. I hope they prompt you to do something, to tell someone. Only then can we ensure that this kind of evil is never allowed to repeat itself. So I read this last night, and I went to work this morning. I was so deeply affected by this story, and my mind kept drifting back to Lina and Jonas and the countless real victims of the Baltic Deportations. When I finished the book, I immediately went on my computer and googled anything I could find out about the deportations. While the book itself devastated me, the outcome of my Baltic deportation research devastated me on a whole other level. I felt a mixture of anger and sadness but moreseo angry because how can human beings treat each other this way. How can a human be cruel for the sake of being cruel? But as I kept researching, I found that many of those who did survive confirmed that being kind and continuing to have faith and love in and for the human race reaffirmed what I learned reaching the end of Between Shades of Gray. Love and faith will always outweigh hate and cruelty. That the tenacity of the human spirit can make it through beatings, death, torture, starvation, and isolation. That a human can make through all those atrocities and still come out to the other side and want to live. I am so happy that I picked this up and I am happy that I am no longer ignorant to this piece of history that had been hidden for too long. This is truly remarkable and one of the best and most important books I have ever read. Here is a link to video interview with Ruta Sepetys who is the granddaughter of a Lithuanian refugee where she talks about the inspiration and history behind Between Shades of Gray. Please PLEASE watch it and PLEASE read Between Shades of Gray. Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GPiQ_... ...more I was so taken by the story of Lina and her family and all of the others that came to life here as they were deported from their homes in Lithuania, by Stalin's Russians to a work camp in Siberia. It's a devastatingly sad story of fictional characters but what makes it even more heartbreaking is that this story reflects a true story of a genocide that took the lives of over 20 million people . I am especially saddened by the fact that I knew pretty much nothing about it and I am grateful to the I was so taken by the story of Lina and her family and all of the others that came to life here as they were deported from their homes in Lithuania, by Stalin's Russians to a work camp in Siberia. It's a devastatingly sad story of fictional characters but what makes it even more heartbreaking is that this story reflects a true story of a genocide that took the lives of over 20 million people . I am especially saddened by the fact that I knew pretty much nothing about it and I am grateful to the author for telling it. It's so hard to imagine that this is a piece of history that is so little known and I can't help but think - how can that be? This is a remarkable story for so many reasons . It's categorized as YA and it is simply and well written in short chapters but by no means does it lighten the load of what happened here . I would say that this should not be missed by any adult who thinks this will be a light depiction of the horrific events . I fell in love with these characters - Lina , and her mother, and her brother Jonas and we see so much of their father through Lina's flashbacks and of course wonderful Andrius. I was struck by the real dichotomy between what was happening to them and the happy, beautiful life they had before which is depicted in Lina's flashbacks - the comfort , joy and beauty vs the vile conditions, sadness , ugliness and death . What remains constant is Lina's passion for her art , a sign of her hope. I am grateful to Ruta Sepetys for giving me this story and enlightening me to the horrors that occurred because in doing so she has also given a glimpse at the strength of a people that allowed for hope and the ability to see \"A tiny sliver of gold...between shades of gray on the horizon.\" I am also grateful to my GR friend Tracey who waited patiently to discuss the book as I was behind in starting on our planned date ...more Um... so I'm a bit torn on this one but I'm going to rate it 3.5 stars. I think what made it worse was all the bloody hype (like with Matched) that made me think this was going to blow my mind and it kind of just, well, didn't. It was an interesting history lesson. My knowledge of Soviet activities was previously more political than social and anything I did know of the more personal impact on people's lives was what I'd gained from German museums telling the story of the Berlin wall. It's true Um... so I'm a bit torn on this one but I'm going to rate it 3.5 stars. I think what made it worse was all the bloody hype (like with Matched) that made me think this was going to blow my mind and it kind of just, well, didn't. It was an interesting history lesson. My knowledge of Soviet activities was previously more political than social and anything I did know of the more personal impact on people's lives was what I'd gained from German museums telling the story of the Berlin wall. It's true that the Baltic countries often slip our minds and not much thought is given to the horrors that went on there during the reign of Stalin; bearing that in mind, the Lithuanian perspective was fresh and interesting, not the typical story of oppression under communism. This I liked. But I'm not going to overlook the fact that I spent the first two thirds of the book just waiting for it to be over and thinking it another highly-anticipated disappointment. The story mainly consisted of two cramped journies in a cart and a struggle to survive starvation, scurvy and whatever else on a daily ration of 300g of bread. It was awful, I get that, truly it was... but in a novel you expect something more gripping. Maybe the author tamed down the harshness for a young adult audience but the result was a mostly drab and boring story. That being said, there were sad and moving moments that did manage to somewhat redeem the novel. I also liked the love story subplot going on, mostly because I liked Andrius, it wasn't too much and remained in the background to the real story but it was nice. So, yeah, I was looking for something more out of this book, the story dragged too much. However, the author's note at the end made me cry. ...more (Edit, July 9, 2016: I was a pretentious 16-year-old when I wrote this review, lol. I'm 21 now and I'll be going back to edit it periodically.) Let me justify my seemingly harsh rating. First things first, let me provide you with some (probably not necessitated) background into my interest in this book: I am an avid studier of Lithuanian history. I have rigorously researched this time period prior to this book's creation, thus I was absolutely overjoyed when I got wind of its publishing. It's abo (Edit, July 9, 2016: I was a pretentious 16-year-old when I wrote this review, lol. I'm 21 now and I'll be going back to edit it periodically.) Let me justify my seemingly harsh rating. First things first, let me provide you with some (probably not necessitated) background into my interest in this book: I am an avid studier of Lithuanian history. I have rigorously researched this time period prior to this book's creation, thus I was absolutely overjoyed when I got wind of its publishing. It's about time that a \"young adult\" book chronicled the heinous acts of human evil that the Soviet Union committed against the Baltic peoples. This book was certainly a proverbial \"eye-opener\" for those who were unfamiliar with Lithuanian history. It was an immersive, interesting book with \"relatable\" (my reasoning behind the quotation marks will be addressed later) characters. But one qualm I had was the writing style. I am cognizant of the fact that this was Sepetys' debut novel, but the writing style felt almost detached to me. It was an itemization of Lina's torturous experience, as opposed to the immersive, detailed account I surmised a first person perspective would entail. In fact, the writing style did not allow me to get close enough to the characters to truly empathize with what was happening to her and her family. Even in the beginning, before most would assume that dissociation and other psychological trauma would kick in and truly prevent Lina from grasping the severity of her situation or being capable of detailing events, there were no details to attach me to her life. (view spoiler) [Even when her brother was sick, the narration did not show enough concern, anger or sadness to me. It was just another slew of barely described events that transpired. Additionally, I felt nearly nothing when her mother passed away; I was expecting to sob, as I am a very emotional, empathetic person, but the narration was so detached that it was difficult for me to cry for very long. Instead of grieving, I just moved onto the next page. (hide spoiler) ] This narration style made basically every character flat to me, with no substance or meaning to me. The plot was moved forward by dialogue as opposed to narration, which provided no true insight into Lina's deepest emotions, feelings and thoughts. Thus, I felt as if the book would have fared better with a harsh critic such as myself if it were in third person objective. That way, it would have been safe to abstain from revealing Lina's thoughts, as opposed to pretty much avoiding them in favor of utilizing dialogue to encapsulate her feelings. Additionally, the gratuitous usage of capital letters, multiple exclamation points and italicized text to represent flashbacks was irritating; those are the signs of drafting stages to me. While it is most likely just personal preference, I am very stringent upon the utilization of capital letters. To me, they are used solely when merely italicizing dialogue or a word just isn't enough to express how crucial the idea is. Capitalizing words on basically every page is distracting and, honestly, makes me think of an elementary school child writing a story sans the knowledge of using italics. I know I am being very harsh. Also, the representation of long flashbacks via italics was unnecessary. Sure, for a truncated flashback (view spoiler) [(such as the repeated one with the \"return\" of Lina's father at the end) (hide spoiler) ] this would have been fine, but some of these flashbacks were multiple, consecutive pages. It was an annoyance to the eyes and was useless, as Sepetys could have opted to make those flashbacks into separate chapters, so long as Lina provided insight into their being flashbacks. My final grievance lies in the ending; it seemed very abrupt. (view spoiler) [We were never told the fate of a few of Lina's compatriots, and it seemed as if one year's account of Lina's experience was not enough to truly encompass what happened (hide spoiler) ] . It was almost as if Sepetys has simply run out of ideas and decided to end it there. However, despite my harsh review, this book was definitely powerful and deeply moving. I did enjoy it, cry over it, and store it on my bookshelf for future rereading, but it did not touch me in the way I initially assumed it would. I would recommend this book to my friends solely because I want them to read an interesting account of the Lithuanian deportations as opposed to the itemized history books I read myself, but that would be the only reason. It is not on a young adult's reading level, despite it being a very adult-themed book; it is much, much simpler. ...more Well done, Ruta Sepetys! A great book. Heartbreaking, but nicely written. This book is a novel, but is actually based on history, during WWII. this story is written from the perspective of a teenager named Lina. she and her family are taken from their home in Lithuania by the Soviets. This story tracks the next year plus of all hardships they go through. The labor camps, the illnesses that struck, the deaths of fellow Lithuanians, cruel degrading treatment and more. much is known about Hitler's Well done, Ruta Sepetys! A great book. Heartbreaking, but nicely written. This book is a novel, but is actually based on history, during WWII. this story is written from the perspective of a teenager named Lina. she and her family are taken from their home in Lithuania by the Soviets. This story tracks the next year plus of all hardships they go through. The labor camps, the illnesses that struck, the deaths of fellow Lithuanians, cruel degrading treatment and more. much is known about Hitler's reign, but what about those sent to Stalin? What of the voices never heard? This is one of those voices, crying out after all these years. The imagery if vivid. You see how lives are lived, you see the love and pain and sorrow. But it is more than that. you feel it. this book literally moved me to tears. The is a hint of romance, and much community love. There is loss and heartbreak. There is pain and suffering. There is hope. The characters are endearing and so well done. Lina is one amazing young woman with all sure endures. If you are looking for a happy, upbeat book, this is not it. This novel shows how Lithuanians (and other people too) were treated during the war. It is well paced, and starts off with a bang with the Soviets coming for the girls family right at the beginning. It is brutally honest. It is not always easy writing about such treatment from a young teenagers perspective, but this captured it perfectly. My only complaint to the book is the chapters were too short and I wish I could have continued on Lina's story a little longer. *I won this as a First-Read giveaway on goodreads.com. all thoughts and opinions of this review are strictly my own.* ...more What a powerfully poignant story. Really unexpected and unique, but so so important. Video review to come! Powerful heart wrenching story of Lithuanians sent to prison camp during WWII I don't know how I missed this one when it first came out. I am glad to have \"found\" it late! I simply loved this book and am deeply moved -- solid 5 star read. There are many reviews that summarize the plot nicely, so I am not going to attempt that here! What I Liked * It was important to learn about this space in history where the Lithuanians, Latvians, and Estonians were rounded up by the Russians and sent to Siberian p Powerful heart wrenching story of Lithuanians sent to prison camp during WWII I don't know how I missed this one when it first came out. I am glad to have \"found\" it late! I simply loved this book and am deeply moved -- solid 5 star read. There are many reviews that summarize the plot nicely, so I am not going to attempt that here! What I Liked * It was important to learn about this space in history where the Lithuanians, Latvians, and Estonians were rounded up by the Russians and sent to Siberian prison camps. They didn't fare well under Stalin - in reality over 20 million died in these camps. * The descriptions of Lina and her artwork were amazing. * Examples of how the human spirit sparkles even under unbelievable conditions. The way that the prisoners banded together and helped one another, sharing what little they had, was heartwarming. * The story of Lina and Andrius (view spoiler) [ falling in love, and finding out that they ultimately got married. (hide spoiler) ] A truly horrifying state: \u201cI looked down at the little pink face in the bundle. A newborn. The child had been alive only minutes but was already considered a criminal by the Soviets.\u201d Love helps them to endure: \u201cWhether love of friend, love of country, love of God, or even love of enemy\u2014love reveals to us the truly miraculous nature of the human spirit.\u201d I recommend this book to everybody ! It is a real page turner and covers an area of history that little has been published about, and everyone should know about. Remember to have Kleenex handy. ...more I think I may have made a mistake reading this on audio, as I didn't find it as compelling as most. I found the narrators tone very off from themes of the story, which left me separated from it. This largely unknown history was very interesting and tragic, by I didn't feel the close connection to the narrative that many did, due to the version I read it in. Finished this in a couple sittings. What a blow to the heart. So beautiful, devastating, and important. Rating 4.5 Review: \"'NKVD officers are walking by the train with rifles,' I said. 'There are some men in dark suits looking at the train cars.' We felt a jolt and the train began to move. 'There's luggage everywhere,' I said. 'And lots of food on the platform.' People groaned. The station looked eerie, desolate, frozen with only remnants of the chaos that had taken place. There were single shoes strewn about, a cane, a woman's purse lying open, and an orphaned teddy bear...'There's a priest. He's Rating 4.5 Review: \"'NKVD officers are walking by the train with rifles,' I said. 'There are some men in dark suits looking at the train cars.' We felt a jolt and the train began to move. 'There's luggage everywhere,' I said. 'And lots of food on the platform.' People groaned. The station looked eerie, desolate, frozen with only remnants of the chaos that had taken place. There were single shoes strewn about, a cane, a woman's purse lying open, and an orphaned teddy bear...'There's a priest. He's praying. A man is holding a large crucifix.' The priest looked up, flung oil, and made the sign of the cross as our train rolled away. He was issuing last rites.\" I never wanted this book to end, and it is such a quick read because it is completely riveting from start to finish. Although it is a Young Adult book, it does not sugar coat the horrors experienced by 15 year old Lina and her family, persecuted as political prisoners when the Soviet occupied and annexed Lithuania (1940-1941). In fact, there are several shocking, completely heartbreaking, scenes. Lina has dreams of becoming an artist, but soon after she is recognized as the artist she could become, her entire life, and that of her family, changes in an instant. Her father is taken and imprisoned, while Lina, her mother and brother are taken forcibly and placed on trains, unsuitable even for animals, then taken to work camps, ending their journey in the most remote part of Siberia, camps that came to be called \"death camps\". This story has hopeful and beautiful moments, including those times when fellow prisoners in the camp show compassion and help others during outbreaks of severe sickness, and when those same prisoners demonstrate super human strength, even as their bodies are beginning to decline. Throughout the story, Lina's growth during the stages of her imprisonment is truly inspiring; she enters as a girl but is forced to grow up quickly during this period of extreme imprisonment. I read the history of the actual events while reading this book, and there are countless victims from the mass deportations ordered by Stalin. There are also incredible survivor stories, of those who survived the time when the Baltic states of Latvia, Estonia, and Lithuania were threatened by a dictator who carried out mass deportations, and, in effect, genocide, of \"the enemies of the people\". ...more This is an extraordinary book and I am so pleased to have read it. It deals with a subject I knew very little about, it has no introduction and it has the tiniest of conclusions. The bulk of the book is about human endurance in unbearable conditions and it is amazing. Surprisingly, despite the sadness of the topic, there are many uplifting moments and it is very hard to put the book down. I now have to go find out more about this horrific time in our history which I am sure is was what the autho This is an extraordinary book and I am so pleased to have read it. It deals with a subject I knew very little about, it has no introduction and it has the tiniest of conclusions. The bulk of the book is about human endurance in unbearable conditions and it is amazing. Surprisingly, despite the sadness of the topic, there are many uplifting moments and it is very hard to put the book down. I now have to go find out more about this horrific time in our history which I am sure is was what the author hoped for when she wrote it. Read it. You will not be sorry you did. ...more \u201cHave you ever wondered what a human life is worth? That morning, my brother's was worth a pocket watch.\u201d When I read this quote my reaction was this: What can I say? I am still recovering from this book. I mean literally recovering. It touched me in a way that Made me cry more than ever, made me feel mad, made me feel disgusted, and made me realize the horrors that these people had to go through. It made me realize what they had to suffer because they helped people or they were well educate \u201cHave you ever wondered what a human life is worth? That morning, my brother's was worth a pocket watch.\u201d When I read this quote my reaction was this: What can I say? I am still recovering from this book. I mean literally recovering. It touched me in a way that Made me cry more than ever, made me feel mad, made me feel disgusted, and made me realize the horrors that these people had to go through. It made me realize what they had to suffer because they helped people or they were well educated. This book had characters that were fictional but the whole story was real- it happened. These people suffered. Every horrifying scene that the book describes happened in real life. I never knew that Lithuanians were the only people that were treated like animals during World War II. I thought it was only the Jews but when I read this book I knew that I was wrong. Nothing is more painful than going through all of that and knowing that they had to suffer. Happiness and love always comes when you least expect it. What made me happy and then made my heart break was their hope, their jokes, and Lina's memories from long gone happy times. It was seeing that those broken hearts could still find inside them the force to care when there wasn't almost any good left for them in the world. Also it was the way they were so strong and full of hope clinging to their dreams that they knew would never come true. I loved the cover. It showed a meaning. I thought it showed that through that cold field( I saw it as the the Soviet Soldiers)the little plant was still alive, strong, and full of hope(the Lithuanians)even if it suffered through the cruelty of the winter. The cover was beautiful and perfect. I loved the characters. They were strong and wise. From the bald man with his dry, mean sense of humor, to the little children, to the women who were strong and determined. A lot of people changed through the story. Like Ari said:\"kids had to grow up and help the others in order to survive, old people had to hold on to their memories to keep going, parents had to sacrifice everything for their children. They had to keep inside their fury, their hate and their shame. They had to keep their head down even though they were the ones deserving respect, because even when they had nothing at all, they still had hope and they fought for their life at all costs.\" And I agree. I was glad that Lina found someone who she could have comfort with. Andrius. I loved him from the start to the end. \u201cGood men are often more practical than pretty \" said Mother. \"Andrius just happens to be both.\u201d \u201cNovember 20. Andrius's birthday. I had counted the days carefully. I wished him a happy birthday when I woke and thought about him while hauling logs during the day. At night, I sat by the light of the stove, reading Dombey and Son. Krasivaya. I still hadn't found the word. Maybe I'd find it if I jumped ahead. I flipped through some of the pages. A marking caught my eye. I leafed backward. Something was written in pencil in the margin of 278. Hello, Lina. You've gotten to page 278. That's pretty good! I gasped, then pretened I was engrossed in the book. I looked at Andrius's handwritting. I ran my finger over this elongated letters in my name. Were there more? I knew I should read onward. I couldn't wait. I turned though the pages carefully, scanning the margins. Page 300: Are you really on page 300 or are you skipping ahead now? I had to stifle my laughter. Page 322: Dombey and Son is boring. Admit it. Page 364: I'm thinking of you. Page 412: Are you maybe thinking of me? I closed my eyes. Yes, I'm thinking of you. Happy birthday, Andrius.\u201d \u201cI left the jutra to chop wood. I began my walk through the snow, five kilometers to the tree line. That's when I saw it. A tiny silver of gold appeared between shades of gray on the horizon. I stared at the amber band of sunlight, smiling. The sun had returned. I closed my eyes. I felt Andrius moving close. \"I'll see you,\" he said. \"Yes, I will see you,\" I whispered \"I will.\" I reached into my pocket and squeezed the stone.\u201d \u201cHow did I get here How did I end up in the arms of a boy I barely knew but knew I didn't want to lose I wondered what I would have thought of Andrius in Lithuania. Would I have liked him Would he have liked me\u201d \u201cAndrius turned. His eyes found mine. \"I'll see you,\" he said. My face didn't wrinkle. I didn't utter a sound. But for the first time in months, I cried. Tears popped from their dry sockets and sailed down my cheeks in one quick stream. I looked away. The NKVD called the bald man's name. \"Look at me,\" whispered Andrius, moving close. \"I'll see you,\" he said. \"Just think about that. Just think about me bringing you your drawings. Picture it, because I'll be there.\" I nodded. \"Vilkas,\" the NKVD called. We walked toward the truck and climbed inside. I looked down at Andrius. He raked through his hair with his fingers. The engine turned and roared. I raised my hand in a wave good-bye. His lips formed the words \"I'll see you.\" He nodded in confirmation. I nodded back. The back gate slammed and I sat down. The truck lurched forward. Wind began to blow against my face. I pulled my coat closed and put my hands in my pockets. That's when I felt it. The stone. Andrius had slipped it into my pocket. I stood up to let him know I had found it. He was gone.\" The end was the most heartbreaking part of all. I can't describe the pain I felt when I read those last few chapters and pages. This book was the most beautiful, amazing, saddest book I have ever read. When I finished I just lied in my bed and cried. This book I will never forget and I congratulate Ruta. This being her first book, all I can say is that she did an amazing job. See it: Here. ...more Wow! what a great read. This is a story very simply told about a Lithuanian Family sent to the Soviet work camps during the time of Stalin and the second world war. The horrors of what this family and so many ordinary families endured during the reign of Stalin is shocking and I am glad to be shocked as I think every reader should read a book like this as it is an education in so many ways. Although Shades of Gray is about a fictional family the story is the truth of what happened to many innocen Wow! what a great read. This is a story very simply told about a Lithuanian Family sent to the Soviet work camps during the time of Stalin and the second world war. The horrors of what this family and so many ordinary families endured during the reign of Stalin is shocking and I am glad to be shocked as I think every reader should read a book like this as it is an education in so many ways. Although Shades of Gray is about a fictional family the story is the truth of what happened to many innocent families. When I finished this novel I wanted to know more and did some research online to educate myself as I would not have been familiar with the history of the baltic states. Second read/ book club 2015 ...more I feel like my heart has been ripped from my chest, stepped on, then was educated on a subject that has somehow escaped every history class that I have ever taken. First off, this was beautifully written. I watch a lot of stand up comedy and one of the most important things about a comedy set is delivery; how the joke is said, the timing, the inflections, etc. This is such a verbal thing that I have never thought of delivery in terms of writing but Sepetys has great delivery. I mean that she kno I feel like my heart has been ripped from my chest, stepped on, then was educated on a subject that has somehow escaped every history class that I have ever taken. First off, this was beautifully written. I watch a lot of stand up comedy and one of the most important things about a comedy set is delivery; how the joke is said, the timing, the inflections, etc. This is such a verbal thing that I have never thought of delivery in terms of writing but Sepetys has great delivery. I mean that she knows when to soften a scene with emotion, when a memory of days before deportation is necessary to making a point or creating more feeling; she knows when to end a chapter and how to do so effectively (i.e. with a memory, with a gruesome deadpan); she knows when a moment between characters should end or should be fleshed out. Sepetys knows when to end a scene really well. I feel that other authors would continue with a scene between characters or a scene where Lina is dealing with a particularly horrible event, but Sepetys will end it at the right moment with just the right line in a way that sticks in your brain and makes the small moment an important and memorable one. Second, this book is so important because of it's topic. It's about the deportation of citizens from Lithuania, Estonia, and Latvia during World War II. Somehow, every history class I've had in every school I've attended has left out this very long lasting, very traumatizing historical event from it's syllabus. I understand that a lot has happened in this world and there's a lot to cover in middle school and high school history classes but I cannot believe that this is something I have never heard or been aware of. Granted, it could have been mentioned in a paragraph of a history textbook that I skimmed over (or skipped completely), but I feel that this is a topic that should be taught and discussed almost as much the Holocaust. This is the forced relocation of half the population of three countries and the abuse of these people through slave labor in indescribably disgusting living conditions over the course of roughly 15-20 years. And it all started during the time of World War II and the Holocaust. I cannot fathom why what happened to the innocent people of Lithuania, Estonia, and Latvia is not discussed more when this time period is taught in classrooms. I am so grateful to this book for bringing these events to my attention. I can't do anything about what happened to these poor people now, but I can spread the word about the horrible trials they endured by making people read Between Shades of Gray. This is why diverse books are so freaking important. If you read my review of Written in the Stars by Aisha Saeed, you would remember the long tangent I took talking about the imperativeness of books that cover a diverse range of topics. We're about to talk a stroll down that tangent again. If I had picked up almost any other book on my TBR shelf, I most likely would have read a book about a white, straight cis-gendered MC who lived in America or Canada or England where the cultures and first-worldness is all very similar and I would have maybe enjoyed myself, maybe had some feelings about what was happening the story, but I would not have learned anything. I would not have experienced anything that I had not experienced before in a book . And isn't the point of reading to expand our knowledge and understanding of the world around us through different perspectives in different situations than our own? Because that's my understanding of the epitome of reading. Because that's what I want reading to do for me. I want it to open my eyes to new experiences, different cultures; I want to learn something about the world that I hadn't known before. Yes, I also want to be entertained, obviously, I read for fun. But I want it to be an enriching experience more often than it just being an activity I do for fun or to kill time. And I'm just now realizing that I don't read enough books that really change me, that really affect me as a person. Recently, reading hasn't really been such an enriching experience. I've been reading for pure entertainment with no real standard attached to how I read, who I read, what I read about. This is probably okay for Young-Teen-Emily, but for Actual-Adult-Emily, I don't think this should be okay anymore. This isn't to say reading books for teens can't be enriching; Between Shades of Gray, the amazing book that sparked these thoughts and this discussion, is a book written for teens. But most books written for teens isn't like this. Which is okay. It's okay for some people. But I don't think it's going to be okay for me anymore. I will still read YA 'fluff' for fun because everyone needs fluff sometimes. But I want to read more outside of white-straight-fluff. I want to learn when I read. I want to experience the world when I read. I want to open my mind and gain new perspectives and become more empathetic and more accepting when I read. So thank you, Between Shades of Gray, for making me realize that I need such a new reading path. I need to stick with this; hold me to it, Goodreads friends. This is such an important, beautifully written novel. I can't say anything in this last line that I haven't already said without sounding, just, dumb or cheesy, so please just read Between Shades of Gray. I would now like to consume everything else Ruta Sepetys has written. ...more I'll admit it. I was sort of afraid to read this book. Well.... not really afraid, but just watching the video about the book had me bawling, and I was afraid to be in that set of mind again. I don't know about you, but books can tend to evoke strong emotions with me that will last for days... weeks, months even. I wish I hadn't waited for so long. Unfortunately I don't think my review will do this novel justice. I don't want to say that this book wasn't heartbreaking or that watching the disturbi I'll admit it. I was sort of afraid to read this book. Well.... not really afraid, but just watching the video about the book had me bawling, and I was afraid to be in that set of mind again. I don't know about you, but books can tend to evoke strong emotions with me that will last for days... weeks, months even. I wish I hadn't waited for so long. Unfortunately I don't think my review will do this novel justice. I don't want to say that this book wasn't heartbreaking or that watching the disturbing journey that these people had to endure was not upsetting, I'll admit it, it was hard to read. Yet I could NOT put it down. I think the most disturbing thing of all, was that I never knew that this happened. And I know that I'm not alone in that. Read this book, be aware of a untold milestone in history, learn about the strength and compassion humans can possess in the face of extreme adversity. Lina was the perfect narrator for this story. I loved how she captured their journey in her art and despite her situation she always treasured hope, no matter how small it may be. Sepetys is an absolutely amazing writer. To evoke such emotion not just because of what is happening, but because of how involved you become as a reader to this story and to these characters, it's not an easy feat. The research and time that Sepetys invested in this novel is apparent in every page. Between Shades of Gray is a must read. ...more Hope * Survival * Love * Faith Well that was another enlightening, emotional, and an absolutely awesome 5* read! BETWEEN SHADES OF GRAY by RUTA SEPETYS is a deeply moving, compelling, heart-wrenching, and a powerful read which is beautifully written that captured my heart from the very first chapter. This was definitely another page-turner and extremely hard to put down. \u201cA tiny sliver of gold appeared between shades of gray on the horizon.\u201d BETWEEN SHADES OF GRAY is a brilliant title for this n Hope * Survival * Love * Faith Well that was another enlightening, emotional, and an absolutely awesome 5* read! BETWEEN SHADES OF GRAY by RUTA SEPETYS is a deeply moving, compelling, heart-wrenching, and a powerful read which is beautifully written that captured my heart from the very first chapter. This was definitely another page-turner and extremely hard to put down. \u201cA tiny sliver of gold appeared between shades of gray on the horizon.\u201d BETWEEN SHADES OF GRAY is a brilliant title for this novel. If we are able to see beyond the black and white of the immoral behaviour we just might be able to see a little bit of human kindness peaking out between the many shades of gray. \u201cWhether love of friend, love of country, love of God, or even love of enemy\u2014love reveals to us the truly miraculous nature of the human spirit.\u201d BETWEEN SHADES OF GRAY has us following along the story of Lina, a fifteen-year old girl along with her mother and brother who are deported from Lithuania to Siberia in 1941 by the NKVD, Soviet Secret Police covering a part of history that most people are not familiar with. \u201cSure we were safe. \u00a0Safe in the arms of hell.\u201d I really enjoyed the format of this novel which was written in very short chapters and narrated in the voice of Lina. RUTA SEPETYS delivers another unforgettable story here that was easy to follow along with the storyline and all the characters involved. To sum it all up it was a well-researched, heartbreaking, shocking, and an emotional read with a tear-jerker but satisfying ending. Would recommend!! http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi... ...more I have a HUGE book hangover from this one!!! I cried so much, mascara running, sobs, the whole nine yards!! Fascinating, HEART WRENCHING BOOK!!! A must read!!! I have been reading books about the Siberian experience through many years, written by either survivors or observers. Each time I am confronted with the absolute horror of the people's destinies, I want to lash out and scream until someone would listen and make amends. Scream! Scream! Scream! And then break down and cry my heart out. AUTHOR\u2019S NOTE \"It is estimated that Josef Stalin killed more than twenty million people during his reign of terror. The Baltic states of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estoni I have been reading books about the Siberian experience through many years, written by either survivors or observers. Each time I am confronted with the absolute horror of the people's destinies, I want to lash out and scream until someone would listen and make amends. Scream! Scream! Scream! And then break down and cry my heart out. AUTHOR\u2019S NOTE \"It is estimated that Josef Stalin killed more than twenty million people during his reign of terror. The Baltic states of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia lost more than a third of their population during the Soviet genocide. The deportations reached as far as Finland. To this day, many Russians deny they ever deported a single person. But most Baltic people harbor no grudge, resentment, or ill will. They are grateful to the Soviets who showed compassion. Their freedom is precious, and they are learning to live within it. For some, the liberties we have as American citizens came at the expense of people who lie in unmarked graves in Siberia. Like Joana for Lina, our freedom cost them theirs.\" This book is so wonderfully written, emotionally laden, mentally almost unbearable. I recently finished reading Secondhand Time: the last of the Soviets by Svetlana Alexievich, Bela Shayevich (Translator). This is a non-fiction book, written by a Russian journalist about the very same memories of the older Russian generations who were there, in Siberia, and recollected the horrors, which confirm the experiences of Lina, her mother Elena, her younger brother, Jonas and their father, Kostas Vilkas. Lina is fifteen years old when they are abducted from their home and send to the Arctic Circle in Siberia. This is Lina's story. A young girl on the brink of life, being sent to a living death for twelve years. Her drawings and letters to her father kept her going. Her compassion and believe in the tiny sliver of gold which appeared between the shades of grey on the horizon at sunrise, pulled her through to share her story. The author used different records and interviews, from different survivors or their descendants to form the characters in this fictional tale. What distinguishes this book from Secondhand Time is that the journalistic element is absent, and the departure point is a fictional young girl telling her own story, based on true events. There's feeling in the book. And good people who lost their freedom and lives for other to live. There's a moral to be uphold, and a different kind of reader to reach. Secondhand Time was mentally and emotionally so disturbing that I could hardly read all the horrors the people had to endure. It was the same with Between Shades of Grey even though a different tone was applied to the narrative. An estimated 60 million people died during WWII. Yet, the lesson have not been learned. We just repeat the horrors over and over again, and 'little voices' of protest are ignored. Finishing this book, my heart was shattered. As a novel this book is brilliant. All the elements of a good story are present. A multitude of well-developed characters, a riveting story line, and a suspenseful plot. In my mind's eye I will forever see the hand of young Lina Vilkas waving in the millions of hands below, begging to be heard. We absolutely have to stop and listen. We have to honor their memory by reading their stories. YA. Yes, but compelling reading for adults as well. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. ...more Oookay. Maybe I'm being too harsh. In fact, I most likely am. However, I'm not ashamed in the least to say that I have a 0% tolerance level for profanity. Honestly, how does it improve or add to the book in any positive way? It doesn't. It's not necessary. Soooo, why is it there? I usually give a book 3 marks, then turn it off. You know, three tries you're out. The third mark was the b word. I'm a Christian. I don't mess with cursing. It's so clearly against everything our holy, pure, God stands Oookay. Maybe I'm being too harsh. In fact, I most likely am. However, I'm not ashamed in the least to say that I have a 0% tolerance level for profanity. Honestly, how does it improve or add to the book in any positive way? It doesn't. It's not necessary. Soooo, why is it there? I usually give a book 3 marks, then turn it off. You know, three tries you're out. The third mark was the b word. I'm a Christian. I don't mess with cursing. It's so clearly against everything our holy, pure, God stands for, why would we willingly let it infiltrate our minds through reading? Don't get me wrong, there was more to it than cursing. Two other parts mildly bothered me (that's not even getting into style), I may update this review later with why I felt that way. Sorry to all my friends who liked this): I'm totally not bashing on you. It's just my personal conviction not to read any books with cursing. Hope you can understand! :) ...more Wow. Just wow. This book was so beautiful. It was phenomenally written and I really felt for all of these characters. I could never even begin to imagine what these people went through, it's is absolutely horrifying. That being said I had no idea that this piece of history existed, so many history books just brush over these terrible facts. I really encourage everyone to read this book, truly. 4.5 stars \u201cHave you ever wondered what a human life is worth? That morning, my brother's was worth a pocket watch.\u201d What a touching story! World War II brought misery to the world, it's common knowledge; However, what isn't though is how the life of the residents of the countries on USSR borders transformed. What they suffered, how much pain they went through and everything they had to endure, to survive. Told from the perspective of a young hopeful artist, Between Shades of Gray shows us the 4.5 stars \u201cHave you ever wondered what a human life is worth? That morning, my brother's was worth a pocket watch.\u201d What a touching story! World War II brought misery to the world, it's common knowledge; However, what isn't though is how the life of the residents of the countries on USSR borders transformed. What they suffered, how much pain they went through and everything they had to endure, to survive. Told from the perspective of a young hopeful artist, Between Shades of Gray shows us the strength of the human spirit and the value of holding onto faith, in a well-written novel that captures all the hardships, sorrows, and misfortunes that Lina Arvydas went through. They have 20 minutes to pack everything and leave. Lina, Jonas, and Elena are being deported from Lithuania to Siberia in 1941 after war declaration. This family is separated from the father yet Elena, Lina's mother, has never shown weakness, she's trying to help her children to get through this hard period. On their journey, they meet new people. They live with them for six weeks on a train and try to support each other later. There she meets Andrius, this young handsome boy. I'm not going tell you where they go or what exactly they went through, I'll let you read it for yourself. However, I'll tell you that they taste misery and heartache even agony. They don't give up and let their fear from the NKVD and the Soviets take over. \u201cDon't be scared. Don't give them anything Lina, not even your fear.\u201d I like Lina, most of the time at least. I don't have much to say about her but what I admire the most about her is how she has never even lost hope. She keeps telling herself that she'll see the one she loves one day. \u201cSometimes there is such beauty in awkwardness. There's love and emotion trying to express itself, but at the time, it just ends up being awkward.\u201d I love Audrius. I just wished we could got more of him. It's just a wish because I comprehend the conditions and the circumstances completely. He is very realistic and always helps Lina and her family. We really shouldn't judge people before knowing their situation. And his mother... Poor woman. \u201cGood men are often more practical than pretty \" said Mother. \"Andrius just happens to be both.\u201d Jonas went through a lot for an eleven years old kid. He seems so much older than his age. However I expect that's what happens to people when they sustain a hard life on a very young age. Finally, regarding Elena she is a strong and a great woman. She is the voice of reason, of hope when everyone else is falling apart. Moreover, she is kind and good even to her enemies. Everybody loves her even the bald man. She always does her best to protect her children. She treats everyone with courtesy and understanding. In other words, she is a true krasivaya. I should also mention Nickolai. Even in our enemies, we can find some goodness. I like him, he has done his best. I want to know what happens to him. He is different from the others. I just wish that Lina figured it out sooner, but it doesn't matter anyway. \u201cWhether love of friend, love of country, love of God, or even love of enemy\u2014love reveals to us the truly miraculous nature of the human spirit.\u201d Basically, if you are a fan of historical novels especially those about World war II you're going to like this one. ...more Ruta Sepetys wrote a courageous story that has been overlooked for quite some time. I can only imagine how hard it is to write with such frankness but to convey through the grimness that there is love and hope, no matter how small it is; it's still there. Lina is our protagonist who lives in Lithuania in the 1940's and one night the NKVD (widely known later as the KGB) bust through her family's home and take her mom, little brother, and herself to an unknown location. Her father has been taken ea Ruta Sepetys wrote a courageous story that has been overlooked for quite some time. I can only imagine how hard it is to write with such frankness but to convey through the grimness that there is love and hope, no matter how small it is; it's still there. Lina is our protagonist who lives in Lithuania in the 1940's and one night the NKVD (widely known later as the KGB) bust through her family's home and take her mom, little brother, and herself to an unknown location. Her father has been taken earlier that day to a separte location. As the reader you know they are going to be sent to Siberia because of the history behind this, but Lina and her family have no clue. They are herded like criminals from place to place without explanation or reason. You see the downward spiral of the conditions they have to endure. Some people crack and lose the will to live; while others fight with everything they got in hopes that the future will be better. The story is sad, but has rays of hope. Sepetys balances the events of the story well. She isn't vague about horrible descriptions, but she also makes sure to represent acts of kindness and goodness. You also get to see the power of art, and how it can chronicle events that happen around them. I loved all the characters, and the relationship between Lina and Andrius is hard to comprehend at first. But when you think of what they have to go through it isn't a surprise how their relationship develops. It\u2019s complicated, but sweet among all this tragedy. My favorite character of the story was Lina's brother Jonas. As the reader you see him grow leaps and bounds, and feel sad but proud at the same time how he has become resilient in face of their struggles. I like to read books like this from time to time to keep myself in check. Recently an AC adapter got busted on a laptop in my home. Of course it was one we bought a couple of months ago, and as I write this I'm using an ancient laptop (close to 4 years old) but what am I complaining about? I was so pissed off when it first happened but in reality it's trivial. A nuisance yes, but nothing compared with what these people had to live through. Not even close. When I read stories like these I can't believe people say historical fiction is boring. It is not boring. The cover and title fit the book perfectly. I can't find one thing I would change about it. I challenge those people who avoid historical fiction to read this book. I'm guessing it just might change your mind. ...more Such a small book with such an astounding story inside. I can't believe I always used to say that historic fiction is boring \u2013 I think I've just read the wrong books. This novel had such a powerful message and together with its rich and vivid characters, it made even the bleakest setting shine. Between Shades of Gray has such a sad and infuriating background \u2013 telling the story of a Lithuanian family captured and deported to Siberia by the Soviets in the early 1940s \u2013 but its prose and its heroi Such a small book with such an astounding story inside. I can't believe I always used to say that historic fiction is boring \u2013 I think I've just read the wrong books. This novel had such a powerful message and together with its rich and vivid characters, it made even the bleakest setting shine. Between Shades of Gray has such a sad and infuriating background \u2013 telling the story of a Lithuanian family captured and deported to Siberia by the Soviets in the early 1940s \u2013 but its prose and its heroine left me with hope even in the most desperate situations. It is novels like these that make me look back at our history in wonder \u2013 how was it possible to let things like these happen? To let others freeze to death in self-built huts while enjoying a nice whiskey in front of a fire? To take a mother and her newborn child directly out of the hospital to deport them in a filthy train crowded together with hundreds of people? To not bat an eyelash at the piles and piles of corpses in front of you getting larger and larger? I think it's impossible for me to fully understand what people like Lina and her family suffered in Siberia \u2013 what it really was like to be so cold your whole body turned numb, to lose friend after friend, family member after family member, to give up hope eventually \u2013 but to fight for your life nevertheless. There I sat in the sunshine, reading about winter storms, dark and crowded train compartments so filthy you almost couldn't breathe, scurvy and typhus, hard labour every day with only 300 grams of old bread to keep you upright. When it got to much for me, I could always close the book and escape into a brighter world, but Lina and her companions could not. They had to endure. In the end, I have to say that this book will stay with me for a long while. Although it is a rather short story, it managed to draw me in and capture me completely. One of my highlights so far this year. Despite the setting and topic, it is far from bleak and depressing. It manages to show us some light among the darkness. The friendship between the prisoners, the love that grew in those desperate moments, made it an achingly bittersweet read. Only thinking of all the people lost in this madness makes me tear up again. All of them were such strong personalities \u2013 each in their own way \u2013 and to think of them lost in the Siberian arctic, some forgotten forever, just makes me incredibly sad and angry. ...more I completely appreciate how important and powerful this story is. I was definitely kept hooked from the beginning and even though it was difficult to read at times I really enjoyed it. The only reasons it doesn't get five stars from me only because it didn't hit me emotionally as I thought it would. Maybe because of how popular and hyped this book is I thought I would be a bit of wreck when I read it but for some reason I didn't cry at all. I can't really pinpoint why but maybe my expectations w I completely appreciate how important and powerful this story is. I was definitely kept hooked from the beginning and even though it was difficult to read at times I really enjoyed it. The only reasons it doesn't get five stars from me only because it didn't hit me emotionally as I thought it would. Maybe because of how popular and hyped this book is I thought I would be a bit of wreck when I read it but for some reason I didn't cry at all. I can't really pinpoint why but maybe my expectations were too high. I also thought the ending was slightly rushed and I would have loved some more explanation about what happened after. Saying that I would definitely still recommend this book because of how significant & poignant the story is especially if you like historical fiction. ...more Este libro va directo a mis favoritos. Se ha quedado grabado a fuego en mi alma. Rese\u00f1a en: http://serendipia-aazul.blogspot.com....<---C>Ruta Sepetys</---C>", "Title": "Between Shades of Gray"},
