{"Comments": "<+++>Free Four: Tobias Tells the Divergent Knife-Throwing Scene</+++>Ok.<---F> I admit it</---F>. I have a crush on Four. And the thing is that...I'm a boy. I thought my Divergent obsession couldn't possibly escalate any further. I mean Fourtris goodness? Check. Kick-ass action? Check. But a scene from Four's POV? Well...check! This scene (<---B>the knife-throwing scene</---B>) from Four's POV is perfect fangirling material. I read it, sat absorbed in the moment and then started sniffling at the fact Four wasn't real for a good hour...or two! I love the complexity of his character and how real Four is. And sorry, I can't call him Tobias for some reason - it just I thought my Divergent obsession couldn't possibly escalate any further. I mean Fourtris goodness? Check. Kick-ass action? Check. But a scene from Four's POV? Well...check! This scene (the knife-throwing scene) from Four's POV is perfect fangirling material. I read it, sat absorbed in the moment and then started sniffling at the fact Four wasn't real for a good hour...or two! I love the complexity of his character and how real Four is. And sorry, I can't call him Tobias for some reason - it just sounds better as Four! I liked how it shows how his interest in Tris isn't purely \"wow-she's-hot/pretty-romantic-wishy-washy\", but deeper - how their two souls are so similar,<---M> how they are both fighters</---M>, survivors and how \"looking at her was like waking up\". That line was pure magic. I LOVE YOU FOUR!! ...more Oh man, this was awesome! But I just wish there was more. Although it was quite lovely seeing things from Four's POV. You know, I've never really swooned over him or found myself connecting to him for some reason. But here I liked him a little more. I particularly enjoyed his observation of the other initiates. I thought that was pretty interesting and informative. I like that she is not your typical pretty heroine but he finds her determination and solid strength attractive. I can love him a litt Oh man, this was awesome! But I just wish there was more. Although it was quite lovely seeing things from Four's POV. You know, I've never really swooned over him or found myself connecting to him for some reason. But here I liked him a little more. I particularly enjoyed his observation of the other initiates. I thought that was pretty interesting and informative. I like that she is not your typical pretty heroine but he finds her determination and solid strength attractive. I can love him a little more for that. And Amar, guys! Doesn't he sound awesome? I really found myself wishing that he was still around. He seemed like a pretty badass and cool leader. You know, I can really see a prequel series/book working well. Imagine reading the times when Eric and Four were initiates. And actually reading about times where the rules weren't as fucked up, where you can see Four more as a teen, rather than the adult he has been forced to grow into due to tough times. And Eric progressing from an asshole to the mentally unstable shit that he is. Sounds interesting, huh. This is a prequel (book or series) that actually makes sense to me. And because I am kind. Here you are :) https://www.facebook.com/DivergentSer... ...more Ugh, I wish there was another edition of 'Divergent' from his POV! This made me want to reread both books again. I just noticed for the first time that there's a comment directly above the review box which asks, \"what did you think?\" Here's what I thought : Four! Four! Four! Four! It's a short story. But man... is this a goodie . I hearts teh Four. That's my official stance. Did I waste 99 cents on a 14 page story? Maybe I did (because really, this should have been a freebie for as short as it is), but his PoV made my night. I didn't realize he had a witty side hiding under all of that seriousness in book 1. I I just noticed for the first time that there's a comment directly above the review box which asks, \"what did you think?\" Here's what I thought : Four! Four! Four! Four! It's a short story. But man... is this a goodie . I hearts teh Four. That's my official stance. Did I waste 99 cents on a 14 page story? Maybe I did (because really, this should have been a freebie for as short as it is), but his PoV made my night. I didn't realize he had a witty side hiding under all of that seriousness in book 1. I wouldn't complain if we got to be in his head more often. This short story covers the knife throwing scene - the one in which Four nicks Tris' ear on purpose. It's not a long enough story to really be a massive spoiler if you haven't read the first book, but it sure isn't going to be as enjoyable to read if you haven't read Divergent because you're being plopped down into a scene which takes place pretty far into the book. She tips her chin up and looks at me with that Abnegation stubbornness I know so well. She may have left them, but they are what's making her strong. I can't tell her that it will be okay, not with Eric here, but I can try to make her strong. ~ Looking at her is like waking up. ~ The other factions call us brutish, as if we don't use our minds, but that is all I do here. ...more OMGOSH, how do I love Four, let me count the ways... It was so great to read this from his POV. I loved remembering how Tris saw him, how she was annoyed with him because she thought he was being \"mean\" to her (when in actuality he was trying to save her!). This just makes me want to read Insurgent even more...I cannot wait until May 1st! one of the best things about having an e-reader are these groovy little splinter-chapters and novellas available digitally that are meant to tide you over until the next book in a series comes out or to re-tell something from another perspective, and it is all fangirl and -boy squee-ish and a really nice thing that authors can do for us. like this one. a retelling of a key scene in divergent . but\u2026here's the thing. while i have loved almost all of the ones mira grant has put out there, and the patri one of the best things about having an e-reader are these groovy little splinter-chapters and novellas available digitally that are meant to tide you over until the next book in a series comes out or to re-tell something from another perspective, and it is all fangirl and -boy squee-ish and a really nice thing that authors can do for us. like this one. a retelling of a key scene in divergent . but\u2026here's the thing. while i have loved almost all of the ones mira grant has put out there, and the patrick ness one was great, and the ann aguirre one was fine, sometimes i don't feel they are really necessary. this one falls into that category. it is thirteen pages. thirteen. and while it was only 89 cents, and there's not much that's not worth 89 cents in this world, i just didn't feel satisfied, or that i had read something that really enhanced my enjoyment of divergent . it wasn't particularly illuminating . we get to see what four was thinking. big whoop. we got plenty of his character from the books themselves, and if she had wanted us to know what he was like in these early stages, she'd have written it in the first place, yeah? i'm not saying this was a waste of time or anything, and especially considering this is a YA series, and at that age, i would have killed for extra chapters from my favorite books, like how i read H. The Story of Heathcliff's Journey Back to Wuthering Heights , so i get that it makes sense to offer these to readers, and i applaud the gesture, but i feel like this is only that - a gesture. gimmie book three, already!!! ...more I am rather surprised by the scene choice\u2013in talking with others who've read and loved Divergent , our shared expectation overwhelmingly seemed to be that Roth would pick either \"capture the flag/ferris wheel\" or \"the fear landscape.\" She mentioned both of these scenes as possibilities she considered. On further reflection, I'm thinking that the fear landscape scene wouldn't have given much insight into the relationship\u2013I think Tobias would have told us alot about himself but very little about hi I am rather surprised by the scene choice\u2013in talking with others who've read and loved Divergent , our shared expectation overwhelmingly seemed to be that Roth would pick either \"capture the flag/ferris wheel\" or \"the fear landscape.\" She mentioned both of these scenes as possibilities she considered. On further reflection, I'm thinking that the fear landscape scene wouldn't have given much insight into the relationship\u2013I think Tobias would have told us alot about himself but very little about his feelings for Tris. Maybe, maybe not. I will admit that I didn't love this scene. It seems to fall short of the quality of her writing in the novel. I am interested in the idea that Four had decided to leave Dauntless and become Factionless. Didn't see that coming, but it fits his character. His character until Tris shows up\u2013once again love turns the world on its ear. My favorite part of the scene, knowing absolutely that Four meant what I thought he meant all along when he snears at Tris that he's fed up waiting for her to figure \"it\" out. Love me some Four... 5.12.12-So. Originally, I gave this three stars, but I've just revisited it after reading and rereading Insurgent , and now I think I really do love it. Five-star love it. This aspect of Roth's writing continually impresses and gratifies-it gets better the more I read it. Each successive reading reveals new depth, and this, I think, requires more than skill with words. She strikes me as such a \"thinking\" writer. In her blog\u2013post about this scene, she commented that she really spends more time in Tobias's head than she realized and that writing the scene in his voice turned out to be less difficult than she had imagined. This is what I mean. She \"spends time\" in her characters' heads, and her writing has a quality in consequence that it could not have otherwise. That it could not have if the story relied merely on action and plot sequence. There's plenty of action, to be sure, but character drives the story. Grand. ...more I love how <---A>Veronica Roth</---A> chose this scene for Four's POV. Most authors who have been releasing scenes from the guy's POV lately, always choose a scene where they were making out or something (in which case she probably would have gone with Chapter 31). Like Clare's An Offering of Moonlight , or Jennifer L. Armentrout's Daemon Extra from Obsidian , which is fun, of course. But this scene of Tobias and Tris is before all that happened. When they were still figuring each other out. It has a range of I love how Veronica Roth chose this scene for Four's POV. Most authors who have been releasing scenes from the guy's POV lately, always choose a scene where they were making out or something (in which case she probably would have gone with Chapter 31). Like Clare's An Offering of Moonlight , or Jennifer L. Armentrout's Daemon Extra from Obsidian , which is fun, of course. But this scene of Tobias and Tris is before all that happened. When they were still figuring each other out. It has a range of emotions instead of just the one, and it reveals much more about his character. Again Roth puts herself above the rest. I love it. ...more \"Looking at her is like waking up.\" Oh , Four. Tobias <3 I loved him in Divergent but now I adored him. I thought he was just being mean so Eric won't suspect him, but he is so much better than that :) Oh my god. It's from Four's point of view. It's only 16 pages or something, but I'm so glad this exists. 3.5 stars This was much too short. Why do authors feel the need to tease us with the male's perspective? I've said it before and I'll say it again: I love reading a beloved female-driven story again from the male's perspective. It's my weakness. Free Four an ideal excerpt to read before or after Insurgent as a way to better understand Four's character, his thought process and his feelings for Tris. He's a pretty great character, you have to admit and I'm thrilled at any kind of deeper insight int 3.5 stars This was much too short. Why do authors feel the need to tease us with the male's perspective? I've said it before and I'll say it again: I love reading a beloved female-driven story again from the male's perspective. It's my weakness. Free Four an ideal excerpt to read before or after Insurgent as a way to better understand Four's character, his thought process and his feelings for Tris. He's a pretty great character, you have to admit and I'm thrilled at any kind of deeper insight into his personality. I can only hope Veronica Roth will give us more Four :) ...more Oh, wow. Can we just have a book from Four's perspective? No offense Tris, but I love your man... Whoa, Tris, watcha doin' with that knife? *flails* *scampers back to Candor and reminds self to shut mouth around the Dauntless* I'm still screaming. I just discovered this now and I can't believe I didn't know about it before!! what kind of person am I? I love Four, I love him so much, he is one of my favorite male characters ever and this scene in particular is so intense, so strong, so vivid that I felt like dying and screaming and jumping all at the same time! Veronica Roth, again, has demonstrated how incredible she is, how talented, how great. Tomorrow comes out Insurgent and I believe this little but perfect story was I'm still screaming. I just discovered this now and I can't believe I didn't know about it before!! what kind of person am I? I love Four, I love him so much, he is one of my favorite male characters ever and this scene in particular is so intense, so strong, so vivid that I felt like dying and screaming and jumping all at the same time! Veronica Roth, again, has demonstrated how incredible she is, how talented, how great. Tomorrow comes out Insurgent and I believe this little but perfect story was the thing I needed to survive till tomorrow. I give it 5 millions stars. Yes, I loved it that much! ...more Raise your hand if you were one of the 35,000 people that pre-ordered Insurgent to get Roth to reveal this Four POV scene. Four was my fave character from Divergent so I'm grateful we're given the chance to peer into his mind: to see what things were like when he was an initiate, what his plans were just before Tris arrived (view spoiler) [to become factionless (hide spoiler) ] , and that he has...a fifth fear? (view spoiler) [hurting Tris (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> Too short! I want more. Aaaahhh!! totally loved it! :) I think V. Roth should write a whole book on Four's POV cause this was really really cool. oooh Four, how I love you. This short story is awessome! I wish we could have the whole book from his perspective... I feel like short e-novellas should have their own rating system, because sure they aren't the complete story but they bring something to the table. This story for example brought a LOT to the table when it comes to hundreds of beating hearts who lovingly wait for any mention of Four in Divergent. Free Four is a short re telling of Divergent through Four's eyes, and not just on any oooh Four, how I love you. This short story is awessome! I wish we could have the whole book from his perspective... I feel like short e-novellas should have their own rating system, because sure they aren't the complete story but they bring something to the table. This story for example brought a LOT to the table when it comes to hundreds of beating hearts who lovingly wait for any mention of Four in Divergent. Free Four is a short re telling of Divergent through Four's eyes, and not just on any part but the knife throwing scene!! Let's just say it's incredibly nice to be inside Four's head at a time when you didn't know what the hell was going on through those parts. The e-novella is less than 15 pages, sad to say, but it will be a nice fix for those who have just finished Insurgent, or even Divergent, and need a bit more. I give this E-novella a 5/5! Getting to look at some things through Four's eyes is amazing, in fact the only thing I am disappointed about is that we don't get the whole NOVEL through Four's eyes. What do you say guys? Let Veronica Roth take a step into the unthinkable and write Divergent again through Four's eyes?! YES?! Oh please do so, I would so buy that book. ...more It was fine. Didn't love it, but I really like Four, so... WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT?! Seriously, I was pretty horrified by the glorified violence in Divergent, but this manages to be close to psychotic. Am I supposed to sympathise with this man? He's nasty, completely incapable of making any sort of comment without immediately tacking on some sort of insult, has a very messed up moral core, and is incredibly whiny. Here's my big issue with this and Divergent. They seem to think that violence is cool, and advocate its use pretty strongly. There's a horrifi WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT?! Seriously, I was pretty horrified by the glorified violence in Divergent, but this manages to be close to psychotic. Am I supposed to sympathise with this man? He's nasty, completely incapable of making any sort of comment without immediately tacking on some sort of insult, has a very messed up moral core, and is incredibly whiny. Here's my big issue with this and Divergent. They seem to think that violence is cool, and advocate its use pretty strongly. There's a horrific scene in the book involving a gun, which is the climax of the heroine discussing how secure and in charge she feels with a gun in her hand, that makes my blood curdle. Can we please stop it with this crap? This is a short and utterly pointless piece of writing that serves absolutely no purpose. It's bland, clunky, questionable in tone and intent, and completely fails as a character exercise. Tobias/Four started out as a jerk and remains one throughout Divergent. Here, nothing changes. In fact, he comes out of it being somewhat more psychotic. ...more OMG KILL ME WHY DON'T YOU??? Since I am too afraid to read Allegiant yet,i decided to read this,and OMG BEST CHOICE OF THE DAY!!! Tobias is so perfect!!! 'Looking at her is like waking up' he says,and i melt..Why does he have to be so perfect?? Ughh I hate that Allegiant isn't that good according to others. I need to know whats happening in the end,but at the same time i don't!! ' I like [this series] too much. There, I said it. But I won\u2019t say it again'. (because I don't need too - it's obvious) I don't get why this story was even written. Basically, Veronica Roth retells a scene from the original Divergent novel by shifting the POV from Tris to Four, and she adds almost nothing to the character of Four what we didn't know yet except for minor details. Everything we learn in this story about his feelings was what could easily have been guessed after Divergent already, and the writing also wasn't particularly outstanding. Recommended for Divergent fans, but only for Divergent fans - this I don't get why this story was even written. Basically, Veronica Roth retells a scene from the original Divergent novel by shifting the POV from Tris to Four, and she adds almost nothing to the character of Four what we didn't know yet except for minor details. Everything we learn in this story about his feelings was what could easily have been guessed after Divergent already, and the writing also wasn't particularly outstanding. Recommended for Divergent fans, but only for Divergent fans - this short story won't make any sense if you read it before you read Divergent. I am disappointed, and by now even more convinced that I shouldn't continue with book #2 in the series. Alright, this is how marketing is done, this is how Veronica Roth and all the other people connected to the series probably earned quite some more money ... and yet I can't help asking myself, why was this needed? Why? ...more This is a short story told from Four's POV of the knife-throwing scene from Divergent. It's a fast-paced short story that lets us know what Four was thinking: about Tris, Eric, and others in that moment. Four is so swoon-worthy, it's hard to screw anything up if you are focusing on him. (Although, even though he's an ass, I did like the movie Eric, played by Jai Courtney. Dang, he's hot.) Four is amazing. i have nothing more to add. I absolutely adore this short piece! I see Four in a different perspective on this part which I find myself smirking/grinning a couple of times. I love how he describes his love for Tris as: \"thing for her\". I couldn't help but grin helplessly in front of my laptop. It's also interesting because you get to know Four better (his thoughts at that moment and his actions as well), you'll get a brief history about Eric's past as an initiate. I do disagree with some of the readers saying that there shou I absolutely adore this short piece! I see Four in a different perspective on this part which I find myself smirking/grinning a couple of times. I love how he describes his love for Tris as: \"thing for her\". I couldn't help but grin helplessly in front of my laptop. It's also interesting because you get to know Four better (his thoughts at that moment and his actions as well), you'll get a brief history about Eric's past as an initiate. I do disagree with some of the readers saying that there should be a separate book about Four's perspective. I think Tris' POV is fine the way it is. Although unlocking Four's thoughts can be really interesting, but I prefer the mystery in him. You can read the piece here: http://www.facebook.com/DivergentSeri... ...more a little taste. Sometimes the alternative POV really works ( Graffiti Moon ). Sometimes you need to burn it with fire ( Midnight Sun ). I liked this and really hope Eric gets a knife to the throat sometime soon. Oh Tobias, why can't you be real? This scene in Four's POV was fangirl worthy and so good that you can't help but need more.<---C>Veronica Roth</---C><+++>Free Four: Tobias Tells the Divergent Knife-Throwing Scene</+++>", "Title": "Free Four: Tobias Tells the Divergent Knife-Throwing Scene"},
