{"Comments": "I have mixed feelings about this book and while I\u2019m glad I read it, it\u2019s a difficult book to recommend to anyone. I\u2019d say one of the main weaknesses is an inconsistency in tone throughout the book. Abani veers all over the place and the book alternates between passages that are broadly satirical and comical to lurid and disturbing passages that involve incest,<---M> child rape</---M>, and torture. There are also times when Abani\u2019s anger towards the corruption and oppression in his native country results in d I have mixed feelings about this book and while I\u2019m glad I read it, it\u2019s a difficult book to recommend to anyone. I\u2019d say one of the main weaknesses is an inconsistency in tone throughout the book. Abani veers all over the place and the book alternates between passages that are broadly satirical and comical to lurid and disturbing passages that involve incest, child rape, and torture. There are also times when Abani\u2019s anger towards the corruption and oppression in his native country results in didactic dialogue as he uses the characters to express his feelings and political beliefs. The book is at its best when it sticks to the coming of age story of its protagonist, Elvis Oke. The book alternates chapters between Elvis\u2019 early life in rural Nigeria where his father was a man of some importance and his teenage years in the slums of Lagos after his father\u2019s fall from grace. Elvis is well drawn and his story is iconic as he struggles to make his way into adulthood and often feels alienated from his culture and those around him. Abani is also very good at writing satirical and humorous passages. In the beginning of the book, Elvis tries to support himself by doing his version of an Elvis impersonation for American tourists. His impersonation consists of putting on white face, a wig (<---B>accidently worn backwards</---B>), singing (badly), and dancing (very well), while the baffled tourists try to figure out what he\u2019s doing. When Abani keeps the satire subtle, like in these passages, the book is far more effective than in some of the over the top plot points that occur later in the story. One of the best passages in the book describes movie night in a Lagos slum. The movie is \u201cThe Good, The Bad, and The Ugly\u201d and movie night is a weekly event put on by an American tobacco company. In the spirit of Western capitalism, free cigarettes are handed out at the beginning of the movie. The movies are all shown un-dubbed and those in the audience that can\u2019t speak English just make up their own dialogue and story while watching (though the projectionist shouts out his version of dialogue throughout the movie on a bullhorn). Every hero in every movie is called \u201cJohn Wayne\u201d and all the other characters in the movie are simply referred to as \u201cActor\u201d: \u201cThey simply invented their own stories, resulting in as many versions as there were people.<---F> Still, for him</---F>. It was magical. The screens were dirty, hole-ridden, once-white bedsheets stretched between two wooden poles. The projectors, archaic and as old as many of the silent stars, sounded like small tanks. Moody, they tended to burn films at the slightest provocation, melting the plastic into cream and brown cappuccino froth. They vibrated so badly, the picture often blurred and danced insanely from side to side, sometime spilling out onto a nearby wall. At first, Elvis found it was dizzy work just trying to keep focused, until he learned the popular trick was to sway from side to side while squinting off to the left. Barring the occasional bout of motion sickness, this worked quite well, and Elvis often wondered what it would be like to stand above and look down. He was sure the crowd made quite a sight: hundreds of people swaying from side to side, chattering away like insane birds, worshipping their new gods. They drowned out the commentary provided by the projectionist, who, undeterred, continued his litany on a battered megaphone\u201d The humor in these passages is well done and the satire is subtle as Abani pokes fun at Western influences. This would have been a far better book if he could have kept that tone of gentle parody up for the length of the novel. Abani also does a good job of representing daily life in a Lagos slum and the vast inequality of wealth in a country that\u2019s rife with corruption and poverty. Many of the slums in Lagos are makeshift structures built above swampland: \u201cHalf of the town was built of a confused mix of clapboard, wood, cement and zinc sheets, raised above a swamp by means of stilts and wooden walkways. The other half, built on solid grounds reclaimed from the sea, seemed to be clawing it\u2019s way out of the primordial swamp, attempting to become something else\u201d Overall, I\u2019d say this is a flawed first novel, but with enough redeeming value to make it worth reading. ...more In the very first scene of the book, when the protagonist Elvis is awoken by a pounding Nigerian rainstorm, we read this: The book he had fallen asleep reading, Ralph Ellison's \"Invisible Man\", fell from his side to the floor, the old paperback cracking at the spine, falling neatly into two halves as precisely as if sliced by a sword. That's the kind of first-scene statement that has symbolism written all over it. Here is what Abani tells Tayari Jones about the scene in an April 2004 interview in In the very first scene of the book, when the protagonist Elvis is awoken by a pounding Nigerian rainstorm, we read this: The book he had fallen asleep reading, Ralph Ellison's \"Invisible Man\", fell from his side to the floor, the old paperback cracking at the spine, falling neatly into two halves as precisely as if sliced by a sword. That's the kind of first-scene statement that has symbolism written all over it. Here is what Abani tells Tayari Jones about the scene in an April 2004 interview in The Believer when she asks for his thoughts on \"global blackness\". (Jones is African American, but spent a year in Nigeria when her father was a Fulbright scholar there.) I grew up conflicted about this whole notion [of global blackness]. Especially about Pan-Africanism. Especially since [Nigerian] independence came quickly and was inspired a lot by Ghana's independence, which was led by the Pan-Africanist Kwame Nkrumah. Also in Nigeria was Nnamdi Azikiwe, who was also very into Pan-Africanism. But it is interesting that these guys were educated mostly in America. These guys had contact with Du Bois and Marcus Garvey long before they came back. You can see this link much more in music. Enslaved Africans brought the roots of the blues with them to the United States and it made its way back to us in Africa. Sailors would come back and teach kids on the docs of Accra and Mali all the American guitar movements, which later produced people like Ali Farka Toure, who plays this hybrid Malian music that sounds so much like the blues. And he influenced people like Fela Kuti. There's that dialogue going on all the time ... And I see a lot of it happening in literature as well. \"Invisible Man\" becomes such an icon. In the opening of <+++>GraceLand</+++> there's that metaphor of the book falling off Elvis' chest and splitting open. This not only represents the splitting of the diaspora but the ability to enter the text in a way that he wouldn't be able to if he didn't share that fundamental racial heritage. Much of the book works as a collage - a collection of brief accounts of how Igbos offer the sacred kola nut to visitors; horrifying accounts of poverty and exploitation in modern day Lagos ; moments of tender love between close friends and complete strangers; and detailed Igbo recipes which come from the diary of Elvis' mother. And throughout the book there is the waning influence of British colonial rule, the loss of indigenous knowledge, and the expanding influence of American pop culture. What I found most interesting about the book, though, is the almost complete congruence of Elvis and Black, the protagonist of Abani's later novel, The Virgin of Flames . Both are lower class artists, always with a sophisticated book tucked under their arm, with one dead parent and one abusive one. Their friends are concerned about them, they are self-centered, and yet also completely selfless, always willing to go hungry to help feed a stranger. They are moral anchors in a world that has seemingly lost its moral compass. There are multiple scenes in which they try on make-up and contemplate homosexuality. It is almost as if Abani took Elvis' soul stuffed it into a half-African, half-Salvadorean overweight LA artist. Which begs the question, how much <---A>Chris Abani</---A> is there in Elvis and Black? At the Calabash Literary Festival in Jamaica earlier this year I had a chance to find out. Chris Abani was there looking a little like Jabba the Hutt as he shoveled a plate of food into his mouth while his fiancee looked on across the table. There was something gluttonous about the scene, with the swimming pool in the background, and all the fawning attention. Besides, I've never been one to approach celebrities, literary or otherwise. From my experience, the interactions tend to be recipes for disappointment. Apparently, once you reach a certain level of fame, conversations are easily mistaken for interviews. But up on stage Abani impressed me more than just about anyone else (with the exception, probably, of Kei Miller ). His poems were beautiful, his stories where funny, and the man knows how to play sax. <+++>GraceLand</+++> left me satisfied, but I hope that Abani - who was raised in a mansion with cars and servents - doesn't continue to romanticize the poor, abused artist. Now that he's been living in Southern California for some time, I'd love to read a book about LA targeted specifically toward Nigerian readers. (\"The Virgin of Flames\" was very much not that. And, no, such a book would not produce any money. But it's the type of book that both Black and Elvis would want to write.) It's interesting, in his interview with Jones, Abani insists that he doesn't think about the Western reader when he writes: What I do is similar to what Ngugi is doing, operating under that notion that African art must exist in an appreciative context that is outside of the power of Westernization to reduce or empower. We allow access to the Western reader, but also say we don't care about what you think. This is what we are trying to show you. If you get it, fine. If you don't get it, we don't care. But I think Abani does care, and that actually leads to some of the worst passages in the book, which read more like narrative travel guide than good literature. \"Return de bottles,\" Redemption said, snatching the cigarette from Elvis's mouth. Empty bottles were valuable because the local Coca-Cola factory washed and reused them. To ensure they got their bottles back, the factory charged local retailers a deposit on the bottles, which could only be redeemed when the bottles were turned in. The retailers in turn passed the cost of the deposit on to consumers if they intended to leave the immediate vicinity of their shops with the drinks. The amount varied from retailer to retailer but was usually no less than the price of the drink. Those sort of explanatory footnotes are littered throughout the book. As a Western reader I don't mind them, but I think its disingenuous of Abani to not own up to them. ...more This book is one of those books that, no matter how intense and devastating its content, is written so well that you just don't want it to end. Abani's prose is so effortless and fluid, you can't help but be drawn into the world he's created. In this case, Lagos, Nigeria in the early 1980s, with flashbacks a few years earlier. We follow Elvis (his real name), a Nigerian teenager who longs to dance and do his Elvis impersonation (what commentary on internal colonization in that one characteristic This book is one of those books that, no matter how intense and devastating its content, is written so well that you just don't want it to end. Abani's prose is so effortless and fluid, you can't help but be drawn into the world he's created. In this case, Lagos, Nigeria in the early 1980s, with flashbacks a few years earlier. We follow Elvis (his real name), a Nigerian teenager who longs to dance and do his Elvis impersonation (what commentary on internal colonization in that one characteristic!), but instead is faced with a brutally violent environment, a father struggling to make sense of his own disappointments and grief, and an array of other male characters that have their own agendas. If you choose to read this book, get ready for an experience unlike any other. I found myself not wanting to tear my eyes away, even during scenes that were so gruesome that I found myself cringing as I read. But it's worth it, if only to witness the brilliance that one writer can achieve within the space of 321 pages. ...more \"Writers are dangerous,\" so says A.S. Byatt, and when you read Chris Abani you see exactly how the truth can kill. Abani's stories show us life balanced on the blade of a knife. His novel, Graceland , chronicles a dark page of Nigeria's history as we follow a young boy learning to live and love in the turbulent eighties. Graceland opens with a nod to Langston Hughes' \"A Dream Deferred.\" Elvis, our young Nigerian protagonist, desperately wants to be a dancer, and in the midst of war and political \"Writers are dangerous,\" so says A.S. Byatt, and when you read Chris Abani you see exactly how the truth can kill. Abani's stories show us life balanced on the blade of a knife. His novel, Graceland , chronicles a dark page of Nigeria's history as we follow a young boy learning to live and love in the turbulent eighties. Graceland opens with a nod to Langston Hughes' \"A Dream Deferred.\" Elvis, our young Nigerian protagonist, desperately wants to be a dancer, and in the midst of war and political revolution, this dream dries up, festers like a sore, and decays with the death that surrounds him. Graceland , like Jessica Hagedorn's novels Dogeaters or Dream Jungle , crams fistfuls of characters into bustling Third World nightmares. Whether its Manila or Lagos, each soul, for better or for worse, is forced to angle their own path to survival. Graceland is an Inferno on earth, and Abani's hero, Elvis, follows the footsteps of Florentine pilgrim, Dante. As Elvis matures from self indulgent and naive boy to awakened man, he's initiated into the sinful ways of his world, and, like Dante, he sees firsthand how degrees of sin match degrees of survival. Though unlike our Tuscan journeyman, Elvis is granted two guides, Redemption and the King of Beggars. Each play tug-o-war with Elvis' conscience. Redemption, who entangles Elvis into a life of crime, lifts the veil of innocence for us and our hero when he asks, \"So are you telling me dat stealing bread from bakery to feed yourself and killing some boy is de same? Everything got degree.\" As in Inferno , the one pure source of light, our pilgrim's enduring star, is Beatrice, Elvis' mother. Though Elvis strays from his path and is lost in the dark wood of his country in strife, his mother through her written notes on Igbo culture and her record of recipes for sustenance and medicine, reading more like prophecies, keep Elvis sane and compassionate. What's disturbing and therefore powerful about Graceland is knowing that Abani's novel is most likely true. Though the characters are make believe, anyone who reads the newspapers or watches the BBC news knows that Elvis' journey happens everyday. Pick a country, any country, whether it be Thailand, Sri Lanka, Somalia, Zimbabwe, Brazil, or Mexico, Abani's work serves as live wire transmissions of today's \"urban anonymity\" from all the dark nooks of our global metropolises. In that respect, we also see the over-reach of American and Western culture and ideals. As Barthelme's writing reveals, no part of our life is left unadulterated by the media, and, in Abani's novel, we also find that no corner of the earth is left untainted by Western influences. The consequences of this is a protagonist who is hyper self-conscious. His dreams and hopes feed off movies and music, which are then appropriated and made new by his Nigerian culture. The media is constantly recycling and transforming itself, as the lives it influences actively transform and reinvent new identities as new modes of survival. Graceland is a testament to the shock and awe practice of today's geopolitics. Abani doesn't flinch to bring these stories to light. His writing is dangerous only in that he holds a mirror up to us and asks us to take a hard look at ourselves. ...more I think you can judge this book by its cover. The ten year old smoking the cigarette says as much about Chris Abani's over-stated portrait of poverty in Lagos as any of the prose within. While I certainly think it's about time a mass-market paperback about the current conditions in industrialized West Africa, Abani presents his critique of American imperialism within a whole lot of artistry or subtlety. It's Things Fall Apart, Part Deux, without the poetry that Chinua Achebe brings to his charac I think you can judge this book by its cover. The ten year old smoking the cigarette says as much about Chris Abani's over-stated portrait of poverty in Lagos as any of the prose within. While I certainly think it's about time a mass-market paperback about the current conditions in industrialized West Africa, Abani presents his critique of American imperialism within a whole lot of artistry or subtlety. It's Things Fall Apart, Part Deux, without the poetry that Chinua Achebe brings to his characters. Jumping back and forth between rural and urban settings, Abani seems chronologically and spatially confused, not completely committing to any character as he traces the \"progress\" of his protagonist, an adolescent boy named Elvis living in the slums of Lagos. Though Abani seems to be celebrating the fragmentation that apparently characterizes the postcolonial world (per Partha Chatterjee), his overstatement of that very fragmentation renders him a rather cliched version of the postcoloniality his book promises to portray. ...more Any of the beauty of the language in this book was marred to me by the author's seeming desire to pack the novel with the most tragedy he possibly could. I understand that this was a troubling and difficult time in the country's history, but by the end of the book it was like an absurdist comedy, and I just wanted it to be over, as opposed to feeling deeply effected and moved, as I suppose was the intent. It's hard to be a man, Elvis Ok\u00e9's father tells him. The measure of a man used to be his good name, and he has to be prepared to defend that name - his honour - against anything, from outside or inside. Names play a part in this, yes. Elvis father is named Sunday, his best friend is named Redemption, and Elvis himself is of course named Elvis. That's about all they have left, it seems; they live in a shanty town in Lagos, Nigeria, and if there's any meaning to the fact that Sunday is a drunk to w It's hard to be a man, Elvis Ok\u00e9's father tells him. The measure of a man used to be his good name, and he has to be prepared to defend that name - his honour - against anything, from outside or inside. Names play a part in this, yes. Elvis father is named Sunday, his best friend is named Redemption, and Elvis himself is of course named Elvis. That's about all they have left, it seems; they live in a shanty town in Lagos, Nigeria, and if there's any meaning to the fact that Sunday is a drunk to whom every day is a day of rest, Redemption is a small-time bandit, and Elvis himself a failed dancer, it's nothing they try to think about: names, today, are just words. Sure, Elvis tries to make a living as an Elvis impersonator, dance and smile for the rich white tourists, but nobody wants a 16-year-old black (and tonedeaf) king of rock'n'roll. And so instead, having to make a living somehow, he gets pulled into both criminal and political conflicts - which, in a military dictatorship (the book is set in 1983, with flashbacks to Elvis' childhood) is often the same thing. In a lot of ways, Graceland is an impressive novel, both playful and harshly realistic in its depiction of life at the (not quite but almost) bottom. Abani has his characters reference both Nigerian (Achebe, Soyinka) and Western (Ellison, Dostoevsky, Marley) writers to create a picture of a world that's become an interconnected web long before modern communications made it obvious; the characters rarely set foot outside their own city, yet thanks to the cultural, commercial and political revolutions of the past centuries they very much live in the Big World Outside. Starting from a, to be honest, fairly cliched story - a young man trying to find his place in a world that doesn't want him - Abani weaves a character piece where the details get to show how it all hangs together, from kingdoms to dictatorship, from Las Vegas to Lagos, where everything you're promised by your name or your background turns to bitter (though often laugh-out-loud funny) irony. A land of grace, as in spending your life at the mercy of someone else's good graces. Abani tackles politics without bashing us over the head with it; things are as they are, men and women do what they do to survive until they leave the building. At best, they get to choose their own encore. Some people name their children after saints or forefathers in the hope that they will be, well, graced with their good sides. Others are named after rock stars, which may be the modern equivalent. According to some doctors, Elvis - the original one, Presley, that is - died of poverty. Not in 1977, obese and trapped in the Graceland that was to be his palace but got turned into his mausoleum, but when he was young. After growing up poor and undernourished, his body couldn't handle the comfort food and the drugs he could suddenly afford (after growing rich off cover versions of black artists, heh). He was pretty much screwed from the beginning, if poverty didn't kill him, success would; an irony as bitter as the situation in what could have been one of the richest countries in Africa. But great music was always born from the blues. Graceland isn't quite up there, it's a little too self-conscious and meandering for that, but it's a very good read nonetheless. ...That is, I assume that it is if you read it in the original English. Because unfortunately, I read a poor Swedish translation of it. And when you take characters who speak English like Nigerian street kids (it's part of the theme, too) and translate it into Swedish, it ends up sounding like an old 50s comedy half the time. ...more This book aspires to more than it achieves, but it is a wonderful and, at times, amazing first novel nonetheless. Graceland is set mostly in the early 1980's in the Lagos slum, Makota, and the protagonist is a boy for whom the grandest ambition imaginable is to become an Elvis impersonator. It's pathetic, and that is just what so charmed me about this novel. The author creates incredible depth of feeling and meaning through symbolism and imagery throughout the book, and the central symbol is the This book aspires to more than it achieves, but it is a wonderful and, at times, amazing first novel nonetheless. Graceland is set mostly in the early 1980's in the Lagos slum, Makota, and the protagonist is a boy for whom the grandest ambition imaginable is to become an Elvis impersonator. It's pathetic, and that is just what so charmed me about this novel. The author creates incredible depth of feeling and meaning through symbolism and imagery throughout the book, and the central symbol is the tragicomic dilemma of the protagonist, a gifted, largely self-educated boy with a drive to excel in his calling, who, through a combination of circumstance, naivete, and willful self-delusion, settles upon a career so ludicrous and impossible (and so pleasingly telling--I love this kind of writing, which often means so much more than it overtly says) that even while you laugh out loud from time to time, the character is so engaging, and the book so filled with empathy and love, that you more often ache for him and his country, and from time to time are simply dazzled by the beauty of his doomed efforts. I have never read a better book about Nigeria. Makota is a terrible place, in which, as you expect, a multitude of horrifying events unfold, but what sets this book apart from others which explore Nigeria's brutal recent history is the honest examination of each excruciating and lovely detail of the protagonist's life. There is a lyrical turning over, and over, and unfolding of each event, and the place each character holds in the story is revealed anew when seen again and again, now from this angle and now from that. And while much of what we see and experience through the narrative is brutal or painful and simply ugly, just as often you take in your breath in wonder, that such a story could be rendered so beautifully. Abani is a gifted writer. The final chapters, though, did not maintain the breathtaking beauty and sadness of the first half of the book, and the characters, so engaging and full at first, flattened out a bit. I also found that the sudden introduction of the supernatural in the final chapter lifted me out of the story altogether, and diluted the power of the narrative. Still it's a beautiful book in many ways, and stunning in its ambition. ...more I fucking hated this book and had to throw it across the room 3/4ths of the way through, but this has more to do with my distrust & dislike of the author than the book itself. The book is just descriptive well-written poverty porn for a western audience that's hungry for evidence that supports its foregone conclusions about african poverty, brutality, filth, rape, hunger, incest, sodomy, squalor, rape, filth, more rape, poverty, and oh, also poverty. (africans are really, really poor guys. t I fucking hated this book and had to throw it across the room 3/4ths of the way through, but this has more to do with my distrust & dislike of the author than the book itself. The book is just descriptive well-written poverty porn for a western audience that's hungry for evidence that supports its foregone conclusions about african poverty, brutality, filth, rape, hunger, incest, sodomy, squalor, rape, filth, more rape, poverty, and oh, also poverty. (africans are really, really poor guys. they also get raped a lot. by family members.) Let's get back to the author then. Given the current political and social reality, story-telling the Dark Continent is inextricably tied to the politics of representation, regardless of whether the author's intent is benign or not. In short, if you're brown/black and from the third world, you've got shit-loads more responsibility about what you say and how you say it, and you wouldn't if you were a straight white man from America. Yeah it sucks. But there's absolutely nothing that can be done about it. Chris Abani, then, is incredibly irresponsible. He reinforces stereotypes for an imbecile audience that really doesn't need anymore proof to bolster its racist beliefs. But worse, he's profited off that racism by building his entire literary career on dazzling manufactured accounts of his own brutal captivity in a Nigerian prison. And it's been a raging success. He's America and Europe's little African darling. But his stories just don't add up and a bunch of people, Nigerian and other, have noticed and written extensively about it. Either way, I assume it doesn't really matter to Chris Abani. Because bad press is the best kind of press there is. It makes people curious. Then they buy your book, and you get more money and more fame. Everyone's a winner. Except the poor sods who live in the dark slum that you're describing so lovingly for your audience. But they're all poor and uneducated and dirty and raped. So who cares what they think, anyway. http://saharareporters.com/article/ch... http://saharareporters.com/article/tr... http://xokigbo.wordpress.com/2011/12/... ...more It was nice reading about the life of a youth living in Lagos. The richness of the traditions and the complexities of the extended African family don't always translate well into a western \"lexicon\". The writer wonderfully describes the significance of the Kola, the importance and power of traditional medicines and those that practice them, and the recipes are fun. I even had a couple of them while in Ghana! He talks about the concept of the African extended family, saying so much in his descript It was nice reading about the life of a youth living in Lagos. The richness of the traditions and the complexities of the extended African family don't always translate well into a western \"lexicon\". The writer wonderfully describes the significance of the Kola, the importance and power of traditional medicines and those that practice them, and the recipes are fun. I even had a couple of them while in Ghana! He talks about the concept of the African extended family, saying so much in his description of a distant cousin still being Elvis' \"brother\". The tale about Elvis' life in Lagos, his relationships with his family (esp. his father) is both tragic and funny and always interesting. Unfortunately, like many \"African\" books, the characters fall under the will of corruption and violence. He points out that the majority of people are honest and poor and either unable or afraid to fight against the dishonest who have power. Also, plenty of mention of the west's apathy towards actually doing something in Africa, despite it's colonial past. I wonder how much of Elvis' story is autobiographical of Mr. Abani's own life? Possibly the most important line in the book is actually a quote from Bob Marley: \"A hungry man is an angry man\". ...more A new writing mentor\u2013someone I really admire. I picked up GraceLand because I was curious and hopeful about its novel structure. And I was rewarded. Notes on it structure\u2013the main story is set in 1983\u2026but in Book 1, every other chapter is set in the past until the timeline intersects at the end of Book 1 (i.e., Chapter 1: 1983\u2026Chapter 2: 1972\u2026Chapter 3: 1983\u2026Chapter 4: 1974, etc., etc.). The beginning of Book 2 moves forward from that point, staying in 1983. Bam. In addition to structure, I found A new writing mentor\u2013someone I really admire. I picked up GraceLand because I was curious and hopeful about its novel structure. And I was rewarded. Notes on it structure\u2013the main story is set in 1983\u2026but in Book 1, every other chapter is set in the past until the timeline intersects at the end of Book 1 (i.e., Chapter 1: 1983\u2026Chapter 2: 1972\u2026Chapter 3: 1983\u2026Chapter 4: 1974, etc., etc.). The beginning of Book 2 moves forward from that point, staying in 1983. Bam. In addition to structure, I found the climax riveting and terrifying. Wow. I feel grateful for this book. It came to me just in time. And\u2026you\u2019ll love Elvis. ...more This is the book selection from Nigeria for the World Cup of Literature. So far this is my favorite selection. I'm not going to lie, this book isn't a happy one but the story is touching and the language Abani uses is gorgeous. The realism of life in the slums of Nigeria is heart-wrenching, but reading this made my eyes open to things that we don't ever see on the glitz and glam of American news. I read Chris Abani's book Becoming Abigail, and was terribly disappointed, but when I saw this title, I gave him another chance. I loved it. Don't peek, but the last line of the book is so insightful! And I mean don't peek! This story made me laugh, cry and kiss my teeth. There were times where I had to close the book and take a moment. Just read it!!! Maybe I took too long reading it. This started out as a five star read but toward the end I began to feel annoyed with the Elvis character. And some other things. Which unfortunately affected my enjoyment of the book. I really struggled to finish, which is a shame, since Abani created quite the grand finale. I'm sad that it fizzled for me. If you want to see Nigeria through the eyes of a disenfranchised kid trying his best to survive in post independent Nigeria, set during the late 70's and early 80's. This is your book. Also has recipes on great traditional Nigerian meals A captivating story that is marred by really poor structure. A simple, straightforward narrative would have been much better than the flashbacks, African recipes and random quotes that begin every chapter. What was the editor thinking? Devastating. Abani crafts a masterful tale of Nigeria, youth, coming of age, loss, pain, suffering, the wild, senseless injustices of the world and much more. Certainly worth reading. This was a powerful read. The author paints a vivid picture of life in the lower reaches of Lagos, Nigeria, then he hits you with blow after blow just when you're wondering where it's all going. A main character, Elvis, the Elvis impersonator, who you can really get behind, but who also inspires pity. The whole thing, though beautifully written, I found a bit depressing. A tough read - and not just for the content. I especially loved the journal entries with recipes that served both corporal and spiritual needs, but found the overall plot a bit hard to follow. I had the hardest time beginning to read this book. I'm not sure it was anything wrong with the book, but for some reason every time I started it I couldn't follow through. I finally willed myself to get this book read and I'm glad I did. I liked the book, I feel like the description of the book doesn't do it justice though. I can't really say that it doesn't fit or is wrong, because it's not--- it's just so much more. First here's what it says: \"The sprawling, swampy, cacophonous city of Lagos, I had the hardest time beginning to read this book. I'm not sure it was anything wrong with the book, but for some reason every time I started it I couldn't follow through. I finally willed myself to get this book read and I'm glad I did. I liked the book, I feel like the description of the book doesn't do it justice though. I can't really say that it doesn't fit or is wrong, because it's not--- it's just so much more. First here's what it says: \"The sprawling, swampy, cacophonous city of Lagos, Nigeria, provides the backdrop to the story of Elvis, a teenage Elvis impersonator hoping to make his way out of the ghetto. Nuances, lyrical, and pitch perfect, tis is a remarkable story of a son and his father, and a examination of postcolonial Nigeria, where the trappings of American culture reign supreme.\" But this book touches on everything, I feel like Elvis' dancing and \"the trappings of American culture\" did not make as much of an impact in this story as the coming of age journey set behind the mess of the life in the ghetto. Military clashing and a number of fringe jobs they show for survival make this story come alive. The discussions about the military governments and what if anything can be done really made the book feel real. My only issue was I feel there was excessive and needless sexual references---- not that I'm a prude, and to be fair everything felt so real. Confessions this boy is thinking and feeling feel remarkably honest, and I do love that though. So that's not much of a gripe since I both liked and disliked it. I wished I had jotted down notes or had read this on my Kindle where I could highlight. There was some amazing quotes in this book. Having just finished the book tonight I can at least mark one I read today: \"Funds? What funds? Let me tell you, dere are no bigger tiefs dan dose World Bank people. Let me tell you how de World Bank helps us. Say dey offer us ten-million-loa for creating potable and clean water supply to rural areas. If we accept, dis is how dey do us. First dey tell us dat we have to use de expertise of their consultants, so dey remove two million for salaries and expenses. Den dey tell us dat de consultants need equipment to work, like computer, jeeps or bulldozers, and for hotel and so on, so dey take another two million. Den dey say we cannot build ne boreholes but must service existing one, so dey take another two million to buy parts. All dis money, six million of it, never leave de U.S. Den dey use two million for de project, but it is not enough, so dey abandon it, and den amy bosses take de remaining two million. Now we, you and I and all dese poor people, owe de World Bank ten million dollars for nothing. Dey are all tiefs and I despise dem--- our people and de World Bank people!\" Just a good example of how this book is so much more, it brings about many ideas, problems, and realities. ...more Elvis lives in Nigeria, he is a boy growing up in relative poverty and he loves to dance. But this book is so much more than a coming of age novel. Abani delves into what happens when governments rule without democracy, when armies are in charge. When rape, torture and violence is commonplace. However there's not all doom and gloom in this book there are often comical places as Elvis makes it through life with his motley assortment of friends and fellow slum dwellers. Grace Land is beautifully a Elvis lives in Nigeria, he is a boy growing up in relative poverty and he loves to dance. But this book is so much more than a coming of age novel. Abani delves into what happens when governments rule without democracy, when armies are in charge. When rape, torture and violence is commonplace. However there's not all doom and gloom in this book there are often comical places as Elvis makes it through life with his motley assortment of friends and fellow slum dwellers. Grace Land is beautifully and hauntingly written and will stay with me for a long time. ...more I had to read this book for one of my contemporary fiction classes, and was generally impressed with it. The culture of Nigeria was almost tangible while reading, as though it had been infused into the grains of the paper, and I could run my hands over it. The following review is an edited excerpt of my short response paper from the class. Abani\u2019s work deals heavily with polarized extremes, examining not only the best that the world is capable of, but also illustrating its worst potential, as we I had to read this book for one of my contemporary fiction classes, and was generally impressed with it. The culture of Nigeria was almost tangible while reading, as though it had been infused into the grains of the paper, and I could run my hands over it. The following review is an edited excerpt of my short response paper from the class. Abani\u2019s work deals heavily with polarized extremes, examining not only the best that the world is capable of, but also illustrating its worst potential, as well. This tendency to examine both the highest highs and the lowest lows that the human race is capable of has appealed to me in other works I have read, like Cormac McCarthy\u2019s The Road. As a reader, I very rarely feel satisfied with a work if they only examine one end of a theme, since I feel that makes the novel\u2019s stance biased. Through the course of the novel, the audience bears witness to Elvis\u2019 greatest sin: apathy. Far too often he stands idly by in the background as he watches another human be shamed, tortured, and even killed. Despite knowing that not helping another individual is just as great of a sin as committing the crime himself, he continues to wallow in the guilt that being apathetic causes, without seeking a channel to revolutionize his behavior the next time he is confronted with the same situation. On the other hand, the very presence of his conscience sets him apart from many around him, like his friend Redemption, whose only concern is his own survival. And, eventually, when given a convenient opportunity, Elvis behaves according to his conscience and allows his living organ sources to escape their fate. (...) Abani\u2019s work is so rich, bathing itself and the reader in vibrant showers of details about Nigerian culture, cuisine, spirituality, morals, family structures, relationships, and politics to the point that the reader feels as though they have visited an African slum themselves. Literature is meant to be transcendental, dragging the audience up from the mundane nature of their everyday life into some place, any place, else. Despite Lagos being an inherently dark, dirty, gritty, corrupt, hollow place, it felt bright and full of life. (...) It proved how true the overused clich\u00e9 \u201cGod is in the details\u201d really is. ...more Truly, 3.5 stars for this, a very strong debut novel. Difficult, at times, to read, but ultimately satisfying. A goodreads friend recommended I take up this novel about a teenage Elvis impersonator living in 1980's Nigeria. Around the middle of the novel, the author did something I very much love authors doing: he listed books that were influential for the main character. Larry Brown did this in On Fire , leading me to the discovery of perhaps the most perfect novel from the South, Jack Butler's Truly, 3.5 stars for this, a very strong debut novel. Difficult, at times, to read, but ultimately satisfying. A goodreads friend recommended I take up this novel about a teenage Elvis impersonator living in 1980's Nigeria. Around the middle of the novel, the author did something I very much love authors doing: he listed books that were influential for the main character. Larry Brown did this in On Fire , leading me to the discovery of perhaps the most perfect novel from the South, Jack Butler's Jujitsu for Christ . In Graceland , Chris Abani recommended the following: Achebe's Things Fall Apart Beti's The Poor Christ of Bomba Amadi's The Concubine Laye's The Radiance of the King Ba's So Long a Letter Most deal with either (or both) feminist and racial issues. As I have completed the readings for my summer course, these will be the remainder of my own course, this time in modern West African writers. I'm pretty psyched. ...more Three stars? Four stars? I just don't know. I listened to Mr. Abani narrate this book on Audible, and I'm sure that greatly influenced my experience of the book. Specifically, it was hard to follow. Each chapter includes a recipe from the protagonist's mother's journal, as well as a portion of a dissertation on the Igbo kola nut ritual. In addition, each chapter could take place in one of three different years, interwoven. All in all, it was a lot to try to follow while listening. I think readin Three stars? Four stars? I just don't know. I listened to Mr. Abani narrate this book on Audible, and I'm sure that greatly influenced my experience of the book. Specifically, it was hard to follow. Each chapter includes a recipe from the protagonist's mother's journal, as well as a portion of a dissertation on the Igbo kola nut ritual. In addition, each chapter could take place in one of three different years, interwoven. All in all, it was a lot to try to follow while listening. I think reading it myself would have been easier. But then I would have missed out on Mr. Abani, and I read this book because I loved listening to his TED talk. Mr. Abani's reading was just a tad slow and flat for my tastes, and I found my attention wandering - except that he did a wonderful job with the voices and the accents. I think I would have bounced off of reading the African dialect forms of English, but listening to the voices, they sounded beautiful and right. Or maybe he got better at reading as he progressed, or maybe I just got used to his pace. This book. It is brutal. It is brutal. Terrible things happen to the characters, and the terrible things get worse and more explicit as the story progresses. I winced a lot. And yet there was also a beauty and gentleness to many of the scenes. And, I think without beating the reader (listener) about the head with it, in a story that is told from a young man's point of view in a society that apparently doesn't allow much intermingling, the author wrote several strong female characters with clear agency. He deftly touched on LGBT issues and gender politics. All in a story about living in a city where just existing is enough of an affront to get you beaten, jailed, or murdered. I'm giving this book four stars - because I think I'll be thinking about it again and again for a long time. ...more This is my first time reading a young contemporary African writer and Abani presents a portrait of Africa which is very much in keeping with recent images/media about the current state of despair, poverty, war and corruption. One feels like the future of Africa is headed in a downward spiral into Dante's inferno. Take the recent documentary DARWIN'S NIGHTMARE for example - you hit the edge of despair learning how Lake Victoria's ecology has been screwed by Western scientists who introduced a non This is my first time reading a young contemporary African writer and Abani presents a portrait of Africa which is very much in keeping with recent images/media about the current state of despair, poverty, war and corruption. One feels like the future of Africa is headed in a downward spiral into Dante's inferno. Take the recent documentary DARWIN'S NIGHTMARE for example - you hit the edge of despair learning how Lake Victoria's ecology has been screwed by Western scientists who introduced a non-native, invasive variety of fish into that body of water which has consumed and depleted the native varieties. Yes, that's bad. Then, you learn that this invasive fish provides a multi-billion dollar industry to international corporations. Yes, that's horrible. Then, you learn that the local population is suffering from famine, and that they must ravage through trash/scraps for any edible bits to survive. Well, that's despicable. Could things get worse? Indeed. Then, you learn that children burn the plastic wrap the corporations use to package the fish to get high. You learn these children are orphans: their parents have died from the AIDS epidemic. Why are they getting high? To deal with the loss of family? their hunger? Sort of, but more directly so they don't notice or feel anything when they get raped in the middle of the night. If there's another layer to hell, I'm not sure what it is. GRACELAND paints the same hopeless picture of complicity to corruption, downtrodden families/communities, a level of poverty that's impossible to imagine...people existing on a thread of life. And yet there's something in capturing that resiliency of the human spirit, where that glimmer of HOPE resides, that makes you confront each day. This is where the mere act of survival turns into an act of resistance. ...more My Amazon review: Graceland is a very difficult book to get into. The problem is not that the chapters alternate between the present and the past (if you are any kind of reader you've been there, done that), the problem is not that it is an unfamiliar landscape - we are talking 20th century Africa here. The problem is that after 100 pages, nothing has happened. Now, that might be okay provided that there were some detailed character studies. Alas, there are none of these either. I must echo an ear My Amazon review: Graceland is a very difficult book to get into. The problem is not that the chapters alternate between the present and the past (if you are any kind of reader you've been there, done that), the problem is not that it is an unfamiliar landscape - we are talking 20th century Africa here. The problem is that after 100 pages, nothing has happened. Now, that might be okay provided that there were some detailed character studies. Alas, there are none of these either. I must echo an earlier observation that the author tried to pack in too many ideas to make any of them work properly. Interesting events are brought into play that after only a few paragraphs or a couple of pages are dropped and lost forever. Perhaps Abani was trying to show the rapid progression of life and the constant change occuring in Africa at the time but it does not make for good reading. Added effects, like the recipes that end each chapter, are neat but don't tie the story together in any pertinent way - the characters hardly ever eat or focus on food preparation and Elvis' memories of his mother do not dwell on food, either. The chapter prefixes on the Kola nut are also interesting but distract from the story and are forgotten as soon as the story continues. I had not heard of Mr. Abani's work prior to this novel and was shocked to see the list of credits to his name. On further consideration, I decided that this is a poet's novel - each scene may have been better written as a series of poems with the stunning imagery of the continent and commentary on the difficutlies of life left to themselves without attempts to connect them inbetween. I cannot, unfortunatley, recommend this to lovers of fiction, but I do intend to take a look at some of Mr. Abani's poetry. ...more Chris Abani's 'Graceland' takes us into the world of the urban poor in one of the ghettos in Lagos, Nigeria in the early 80s. The main character is Elvis, a teenager forced to grow up sooner than most, who had a middle-class childhood but is now among the poorest in Lagos trying to find his place in life. Chris Abani clearly shows us the duality of human nature through the brutality of the military, the mob mentality, the torture, etc. and beautifully through Elvis' struggle in trying to reflect Chris Abani's 'Graceland' takes us into the world of the urban poor in one of the ghettos in Lagos, Nigeria in the early 80s. The main character is Elvis, a teenager forced to grow up sooner than most, who had a middle-class childhood but is now among the poorest in Lagos trying to find his place in life. Chris Abani clearly shows us the duality of human nature through the brutality of the military, the mob mentality, the torture, etc. and beautifully through Elvis' struggle in trying to reflect the humanity back to those around him, i.e., questions he poses to Redemption about their latest schemes, befriending King of Beggars, his treatment of Blessing. Don't get me wrong, Elvis is as self-centered as any teenager can be, but I appreciated that he struggled to try to fall on the right side of things, which if you have the odds stacked against you can be challenging to say the least. I also liked the names Chris Abani gave his characters, which seemed to describe them perfectly. Elvis -- the lust for American movies, heroes, music, searching for his own personal Graceland. Sunday -- pious towards old traditions regarding familial and male roles, and then after his failures taking each day as a Sunday, a day of rest. Redemption -- with each interaction with him, Elvis has a chance to redeem himself, to find himself, and later gives Elvis the chance for freedom and to build himself a new life in America. Although I liked 'Graceland,' it was quite depressing reading it. I kept thinking about how many more beggar children and Elvises are out there. But, I think that's the point. ...more CHRIS ABANI TARAMUL FAGADUINTEI O carte despre Africa, despre speranta, despre vise, dar si despre mizerie, genocid, viol si crima. O carte cu un gust dulce-amar destul de greu de digerat, dar frumoasa. Elvis este un adolescent care isi doreste sa ajunga in America - taramul fagaduintei -, dar intre timp traieste in Maroko un ghetou din Lagos amestecandu-se in diferite afaceri mai mult sau mai putin curate. Fiecare personaj are o poveste care se deruleaza pe muzica lui Bob Marley si este condimen CHRIS ABANI TARAMUL FAGADUINTEI O carte despre Africa, despre speranta, despre vise, dar si despre mizerie, genocid, viol si crima. O carte cu un gust dulce-amar destul de greu de digerat, dar frumoasa. Elvis este un adolescent care isi doreste sa ajunga in America - taramul fagaduintei -, dar intre timp traieste in Maroko un ghetou din Lagos amestecandu-se in diferite afaceri mai mult sau mai putin curate. Fiecare personaj are o poveste care se deruleaza pe muzica lui Bob Marley si este condimentata de retete traditionale. Este o carte despre dezradacinare, despre pierderea familiei, despre parinti si copii care nu gasesc punti de comunicare. Istoria mare si istoria mica se intersecteaza in aceasta carte aratand cum una o poate influenta pe cealalta. Orfan de mama si cu un tata alcoolic si violent adolescentul Elvis viseaza cu ochii deschisi la ziua in care va evada din Maroko un ghetou mizerabil si periculos al Lagosului si dintr-o tara Nigeria terorizata de regimuri militare brutale si la discretia unor legi tribale nemiloase. Lui Elvis ii place sa danseze sa citeasca sa asculte muzica si sa mearga la cinematograf si uneori se mai intreaba cum ar fi fost viata lui daca s-ar fi nascut alb intr-un alt taram al fagaduintei. Salvarea si mantuirea in mijlocul cruzimii si al violentelor de tot felul vin din compasiune din umor din iubire si prietenie din muzica si literatura. Chris Abani creeaza in Taramul fagaduintei o poveste remarcabila despre un fiu si tatal sau despre maturizare si despre o Nigerie postcoloniala care isi cauta identitatea. ...more A SCRIBBLER'S REVIEW We follow the protagonist, Elvis, through his coming-of-age in Nigeria; a country raked with poverty and violence. The story bounces between life before his mother died and his life after, which takes a terrible turn once his father, Sunday, quits his job with the hopes of winning a local election. Sunday uses alcohol to diffuse his hopelessness, all the while, leaving Elvis to fend for himself in their ravaged-torn landscape. We meet a variety of characters, family and frie A SCRIBBLER'S REVIEW We follow the protagonist, Elvis, through his coming-of-age in Nigeria; a country raked with poverty and violence. The story bounces between life before his mother died and his life after, which takes a terrible turn once his father, Sunday, quits his job with the hopes of winning a local election. Sunday uses alcohol to diffuse his hopelessness, all the while, leaving Elvis to fend for himself in their ravaged-torn landscape. We meet a variety of characters, family and friends alike, (The King of Beggars, Redemption, Oye, etc.) that ultimately shape Elvis into the man he becomes. \"Graceland\" is a moving story, rich with detail and horror. A world of violence, fear, indifference, and struggle, Albani conveys a true sense of survival in an honest and shattering way. A revealing, provoking and worthwhile read! *For the Scribbler: Description, setting, and pace. Albani's \"Graceland\" moves slowly, which is a good thing, because you need the time to appreciate Albani's incredible talent for detail. You are not sitting on a sofa absorbing Elvis' life, but you are instead, there next to him as he watches a \"necklace of fire\", or rests on his tattered mattress watching rats hold onto floating sandals in a flooded room. Albani can not only place you on the scene, but he can also make you feel every ounce of desperation, hope, fear and yes, pain. I'm still shuddering. ...more It was very hard for me to get into this book because the characters felt like caricatures from a Nollywood script. It was hard for me to believe this world that Albani created because some of the dialogue and character development felt forced and unrealistic. With that being said, Mr. Albani delivers a strangely poetic prose and uses beautiful imagery even in the most morose moments of the book. I appreciate the knowledge I have gained about Nigeria and its history. I've grown a strange attachm It was very hard for me to get into this book because the characters felt like caricatures from a Nollywood script. It was hard for me to believe this world that Albani created because some of the dialogue and character development felt forced and unrealistic. With that being said, Mr. Albani delivers a strangely poetic prose and uses beautiful imagery even in the most morose moments of the book. I appreciate the knowledge I have gained about Nigeria and its history. I've grown a strange attachment to Elvis and his struggles. He went from being a total douche to a human being in my eyes. He struggles with questions that humans struggle with: What's right and what's wrong? Do I help with someone in danger if it jeopardizes my reputation? Am I really different from those I look down upon? I believe by the end, Elvis knows he isn't better than those he previously looked down upon. In the end, we are all victims of the system and we are all connected in some way. I love what Albani does at the end which is connect the past plight of black men in America with the current struggles with black men in Africa. With that said, is Elvis a hero? No. He actually chose to run away because he didn't have it in him to be a hero anyway. This makes me question is Elvis a bad character because he finally recognized his place as a human being in his world? or is he a coward for leaving? ...more<---C>Chris Abani</---C>", "Title": "GraceLand"},
