{"Comments": "This is one of two books by journalists I read this week. This book can't be easily pigeonholed, which might put off some readers. But it appealed to me,<---M> maybe even more</---M>, because of its ambiguity. The novel tells the tale of Kathleen de Burca, an Irish-born travel writer coming to grips with her terrible past in midlife while she tries to chase down the true story of adultery among the aristocracy during the famine. Kathleen's desire to understand passion, and its absence, leads her to reflect o This is one of two books by journalists I read this week. This book can't be easily pigeonholed, which might put off some readers. But it appealed to me, maybe even more, because of its ambiguity. The novel tells the tale of Kathleen de Burca, an Irish-born travel writer coming to grips with her terrible past in midlife while she tries to chase down the true story of adultery among the aristocracy during the famine. Kathleen's desire to understand passion, and its absence, leads her to reflect on her own experiences, and those of her family. Her experiences shed light on the historical mystery she's trying to uncover, but they also cast shadows over it. And, much as in real life, some characters wander off, some trails get cold, some information is lost to time. There's no tidy wrap-up, much as in life. But <---A>Nuala O'Faolain</---A> is a first-rate storyteller. Her (flawed) characters spring to life convincingly. The story moves along at a good pace for such a long (500-some pages) book. Her descriptions of the Irish countryside are poetic, but her view of its history unrepentantly unsentimental. Her insights into people are similar, and just as keen. I wish O'Faolain had left a larger body of work. ...more <+++>My Dream of You</+++> is one of those powerful stories that stays with you long after reading. The story is narrated by Kathleen, a travel writer from Ireland, who at the death of a close colleague and friend begins to evaluate her life at the age of fifty. Struggling with loneliness and a deep lack of fulfilment she embarks on a journey back to the Ireland she left at the age of seventeen in order to confront her roots and deal with the demons of her past. Much of the book is devoted to Kathleen\u2019s memo <+++>My Dream of You</+++> is one of those powerful stories that stays with you long after reading. The story is narrated by Kathleen, a travel writer from Ireland, who at the death of a close colleague and friend begins to evaluate her life at the age of fifty. Struggling with loneliness and a deep lack of fulfilment she embarks on a journey back to the Ireland she left at the age of seventeen in order to confront her roots and deal with the demons of her past. Much of the book is devoted to Kathleen\u2019s memories of her sketchy and sad childhood which is slightly reminiscent of Frank McCourt\u2019s, Angela\u2019s Ashes. No mistaking here that the authentic dialect and descriptions add a beautiful visual depth to this story in a similar fashion. There are also reflections throughout the book on the potato famine, and many times the heartfelt emotions which were conveyed simply swept you up and away in a sometimes uncomfortable but pleasant way, in that you felt you were not just reading a sentence but indulging in some beautifully articulated irish literature. The heart of the story is Kathleen\u2019s inner struggle to feel loved and whether or not she will ever again find a passionate lover again, an experience which she had only briefly tasted once in her younger years. When married \u2018Shay \u2018 appears in her life he becomes a fulfilling lover, if only for a fleeting time. Soon Kathleen is faced with the difficult choice of facing life as a middle-aged woman indulging in only sporadic unions with her lover, or the alternative option of never encountering a soul-bonding sexual experience ever again. The ending ties together all her thoughts, self-discoveries, and final choices as she embarks on a new life without the people she has loved, and let go, both in the past and the present. Overall the book was riveting and I found myself lost in its prose. For those who appreciate self-exploratory books with a deeper connection I truly recommend it as a pleasurable read. ...more I'm going to start putting \"spoiler alert\" on all my reviews from now on, I think. Reason being: I'm realizing I come to goodreads for more of a book club discussion, rather than wanting to influence anybody as to whether they should invest time and money in a book. I found this book in the \"Little Free Library\" on Granville Island, and having been recommended another book by Nuala O'Faolain, and never having heard of her before, I thought this was perhaps a sign. I did not know, till comfortably I'm going to start putting \"spoiler alert\" on all my reviews from now on, I think. Reason being: I'm realizing I come to goodreads for more of a book club discussion, rather than wanting to influence anybody as to whether they should invest time and money in a book. I found this book in the \"Little Free Library\" on Granville Island, and having been recommended another book by Nuala O'Faolain, and never having heard of her before, I thought this was perhaps a sign. I did not know, till comfortably tucked into My Dream Of You, that Nuala O'Faolain had already passed away a few years ago. I suppose because she was new to me, I assumed she was alive and well. That knowledge added an extra sadness to an already somewhat sad (okay, VERY sad, on the whole, although not the ending) tale. I couldn't help but think of the protagonist Kathleen as a version of O'Faolain herself. So why the spoiler alert? Well, I guess the few gripes I had with this novel may possibly give a few things away. I found the character of Ian (the asshole husband of protagonist's friend Caroline) to be a bit of a cut-out of an asshole. (Okay, what an image!, and I should probably say, \"arsehole\" since this is Great Britain.) We are not given a lot of him, but when he does surface, it's as if he is there merely to illustrate a point about men and women and how horrible romantic relationships can be among some dysfunctional people, to the point where to call it love or romance is an utter crock. I just could not buy into the idea of someone like Caro, with money and looks to burn, would throw her life away on the biggest arsehole she probably ever met. I get that O'Faolain is trying to illustrate a point with this, but it did not feel believable, these characters did not walk off the page. However I did find the dailogue in the book very good and authentic, even if some of the characters were not. The descriptions of scenery were lovely and evocative. The story-within-a-story was more bearable than usual (I usually grow bored with stories-within) because of the way that our narrator Kathleen was uncovering it simultaneously to us readers having it unveiled. There were times when it got a bit tedious, but usually around that time, we'd be led back in to the main-time story. I did find the book to drag a bit in the middle, but heck, it's 447 pages long. Getting back to the subject of unbelievability, and hence my \"spoiler alert\" tag, I was a little shocked by Kathleen's promiscuity, when it came about right when she was in a blissfully happy, fulfilling relationship with her first serious boyfriend Hugo. It's not like their passion had died one bit, (perhaps it should have, to make the cheating easier to swallow) No, those lucky two, after consummating their relationship insanely well on a Greek island, have not slowed down in their erotic passion...a year? or so later when Kathleen just cannot say \"no\" to a sleazy house-mate of theirs. It's so sudden, this uveiling of Kathleen-the-easy, that I almost had to put the book down and digest this bit. But then we're told that it's due to low self esteem, she just can't say \"no\" to anyone. Somehow this seems a bit much, considering she's a confident career woman who travels the globe for her job. It would be different if she were searching for elusive passion. But she's already found it in Hugo, so her cheating on him makes little sense. Oh but she had a hard Irish upbringing, in a house where there were too many children, too little money and too litte love.<---F> Okay, but still</---F>...that does not really explain the inability to say \"no,\" considering Kathleen had the toughness to leave her family and homeland without a backward glance, she is not a doormat. Having said this, I did enjoy the way that passion is seen from all angles in this story. At its worst and best and in-between. Actually I don't recall a lot of in-between, come to think of it. It was either there or it wasn't. I love the passage where she talks about the vast gulf between the instinctive generosity of the body and the possibility of any good ever coming of it. (This after a drunken romp with a guy who had been a great friend only, up to that point.) What I really liked about this novel is the way it picks up momentum as it gets closer to the end, and really does become a page-turner, as we wait to find out a couple of things, how they are going to pan out. Added to this is the disclosure of how Kathleen's mother died, (up till then I had not even wondered about it, just assumed it was cancer or something, which indeed it was, but coupled with a pregnancy)...not to spoil any more after already putting \"spoiler alert\" but this part is the saddest and most heart-breaking I think. In all, I came away from this novel satisfied, and impressed, and I will definitely read more by Nuala O'Faolain. ...more I had heard an intrview of Nuala O'Faolain on NPR as her book was coming out, and I had so enjoyed her wit that I rushed to the store to buy the book. What a great idea that was! I was so swept away by the double tale of the book that I called in sick from work to read through until I was done. It is like a duet in harmony on the destinies of women in Ireland, today and one century ago, young or middle-aged, always not quite loved enough and having to pay the price for being vibrant beings. Even I had heard an intrview of Nuala O'Faolain on NPR as her book was coming out, and I had so enjoyed her wit that I rushed to the store to buy the book. What a great idea that was! I was so swept away by the double tale of the book that I called in sick from work to read through until I was done. It is like a duet in harmony on the destinies of women in Ireland, today and one century ago, young or middle-aged, always not quite loved enough and having to pay the price for being vibrant beings. Even today, when I think about the book, it helps be at peace with being a middle-aged woman. ...more I have read her first book, a memoir, and then Julie sent me \"My Dream of You\" in the Bodacious Box of Books, and I loved it. It's long, and starts pretty slowly, seeming like one of those novels in which the main character keeps doing dumb and self-destructive things again, again, and again. . . but then it had bolts of humor, and some characters who offered insight and common sense, and the main character seemed to be growing and learning from her dumb actions, and I ended up reading it in abo I have read her first book, a memoir, and then Julie sent me \"My Dream of You\" in the Bodacious Box of Books, and I loved it. It's long, and starts pretty slowly, seeming like one of those novels in which the main character keeps doing dumb and self-destructive things again, again, and again. . . but then it had bolts of humor, and some characters who offered insight and common sense, and the main character seemed to be growing and learning from her dumb actions, and I ended up reading it in about three days and really enjoying it. I know a little about Irish history, and O'Faolain's stories helped me understand a little more about (HUGE GENERALITY COMING! SORRY!) what makes \"the Irish experience\" what it is--I knew the Famine was bad, but parts of this story tie into the fact that the enclosure movement took advantage of the Famine, so that the native Irish were too weak to resist. People were living in holes in the ground! There were dead bodies lying along the roads! And many of the English landlords viewed the native Irish people as vermin. WOW. BUT that's not even really the focus on the novel, and I think O'Faolain took a huge risk in all the strands she brought together--Kathleen's historical research, her family's immediate history (mother's death and father's behavior), and her life as she turns 50--but I think it works. It's a sad but a healing book--\"bittersweet,\" I think. And I don't think I'd've liked it when I was younger--under 40, say. But I certainly did like it at this stage of my life. Sad to find out that Nuala O'Faolain died in 2008 of cancer, discovered only 3 months earlier, but good to know she died after a last trip to various countries with some of her siblings. AND that there was a big funeral for her in Dublin and the streets were filled. I loved the old priest's advice to Kathleen: \"Do the thing that's less passive, he had said. Do the active thing. There's more of the human in that.\" (509) ...more I absolutely loved this book. I was compelled by the subject matter, being a single woman, though only in my twenties--it's about a women in her forties (or fifties? can't remember), never married, who starts examining her life after the death of a friend and ends up returning to Ireland and memories of the family and childhood she ran away from at 17. I loved the character for her entirely normal yet revolutionary life--I've never read a novel before that focused on a modern single woman in suc I absolutely loved this book. I was compelled by the subject matter, being a single woman, though only in my twenties--it's about a women in her forties (or fifties? can't remember), never married, who starts examining her life after the death of a friend and ends up returning to Ireland and memories of the family and childhood she ran away from at 17. I loved the character for her entirely normal yet revolutionary life--I've never read a novel before that focused on a modern single woman in such a razor-sharp way. The book validated her (and me, and all the other single women out there) and her life, while also being entirely open and honest about her fears, her regrets and her joys. And the writing is amazing: so precise. Kathleen's narrative reminded me of good psychotherapy, which I love--she examines and reexamines herself and her past and all of her revelations and perceptions make up a rich whole while overlapping and contradicting each other. As she moves through time her narratives about herself and her family and her past change and shift and new obsessions and sensations float to the surface, never refuting the previous ones but adding to a richly multilayered experience. It's a true celebration of the ineffable complexity of being. ...more Wow. What a beautiful, powerful, heavy book. It's an enlightening look at one woman's redefinition of identity and love and passion, her struggles with her past and the memory of her mother and her entry into middle age, and how she learns to heal. Just riveting. Also some absolutely lovely descriptions of Ireland's scenery and people. My first read was 8-13 May 2012. Second read: 20-25 September 2013. I added a star this time around; having read a lot more Irish literature in the intervening time, and reading it critically for my PhD thesis, I was able to engage with the text on a much deeper level, and it meant a lot more to me this time. Nuala O\u2019Faolain\u2019s My Dream of You reads like lyric poetry. The reader is transported through 500 pages of beautifully articulated sensations, feelings and images \u2013 \u201cAll along that stretch of My first read was 8-13 May 2012. Second read: 20-25 September 2013. I added a star this time around; having read a lot more Irish literature in the intervening time, and reading it critically for my PhD thesis, I was able to engage with the text on a much deeper level, and it meant a lot more to me this time. Nuala O\u2019Faolain\u2019s My Dream of You reads like lyric poetry. The reader is transported through 500 pages of beautifully articulated sensations, feelings and images \u2013 \u201cAll along that stretch of the road flickering polka-dot light danced down through the lacy young branches of the beech trees, and it danced on them\u201d (220). As other reviewers have mentioned, the plot is nothing to speak of, but it truly isn\u2019t supposed to be \u2013 as a novel predicated on the narrator\u2019s personal development, we are skillfully lead through her memories and insights in a disjointed narrative reminiscent of our own thought processes. I also appreciated O\u2019Faolain\u2019s thoughtful exploration of \u201cwhat it means to be Irish.\u201d Kathleen seems to have inherited her father\u2019s Irish patriotism even while she professes to hate everything about him, and to resent his neglect of his family \u201cfor Ireland.\u201d For instance, even though Kathleen\u2019s brother Danny \u201clived for\u201d soccer, their father \u201cwas actively hostile to soccer. He believed so strongly that Gaelic football was the real, native football, and that soccer was an English imposition that when the soccer club needed the loan of the Gaelic pitch for a charity match, he brought pressure through Irish-language circles in Dublin to stop the pitch being lent\u201d (461). Kathleen\u2019s patriotism, meanwhile, is the exact opposite insofar as Ireland to her is people rather than abstract principles. She explores the significance of the Famine through recreating the stories of the Talbots and their servants \u2013 humanizing history, as it were. While there is so much to love about this book, my reasons for giving it a three-star rating are highly personal and probably somewhat illogical. While the disjointed narrative makes sense for what she's trying to accomplish, I prefer something more tightly connected. This is not to say that I need a book to be plot-driven to enjoy it (though reading this after binging on detective fiction is a bit jarring), but I would have liked her to explore what those aforementioned sensations, feelings and images mean (without having to say, definitively, that it means one thing ), rather than simply present them and let the reader make all the important connections. She could at least start the discussion, in other words. I also found it difficult to relate to a character so bitterly pessimistic: \u201cI was so primed for enduring grief that I could hardly imagine anything important happening to me that wasn\u2019t going to make me unhappy. I became unhappy; then I was sorry for myself for being unhappy; then I despised myself for my self-pity\u201d (401-2). The point of the book is her development, sure, but it was a process that I couldn\u2019t relate to myself, making it harder for me to understand her motivations at times. Then again, I might just be too young; I can\u2019t image that I fit into the target audience for this book at 23. ...more Layered and atmospheric, this book relates, within the context of an historical divorce case, the tragic life of the Irish country people during what is euphemistically called \"The Potato Famine\", but was actually a form of genocide manipulated by the English aristocracy, as well as a writer's struggle with the emotional emptiness of her own life. Ms. O'Faolain's honesty in portraying women's sexuality is also refreshing. The painful loneliness that her semi-autobiographical central character, an Layered and atmospheric, this book relates, within the context of an historical divorce case, the tragic life of the Irish country people during what is euphemistically called \"The Potato Famine\", but was actually a form of genocide manipulated by the English aristocracy, as well as a writer's struggle with the emotional emptiness of her own life. Ms. O'Faolain's honesty in portraying women's sexuality is also refreshing. The painful loneliness that her semi-autobiographical central character, and the woman from the past share in common is a powerful and sensitively explored theme. You feel immersed, along with the central character, in the long ago world of the subjects of her research for the historical novel she is writing. Ultimately she writes a very different story than she anticipated, and you are carried along on her journey to the discovery that what we consider \"truths\" about the past are subjectively influenced by many things, including the distance from our point of view in the present. This book was particularly meaningful to me on a personal level because of my Irish heritage. ...more I did not like anything about this book. The author tried to make a connection between two women: one a current day woman who sleeps around, and the other a woman from the Irish gentry in the 1850's that according to court records had an affair. The modern day woman couldn't keep herself from sleeping with anyone, literally and frequently. A possibility that there could be any connection between these two women is extremely remote; yet, the author kept insisting there was. Frankly, I wonder how I did not like anything about this book. The author tried to make a connection between two women: one a current day woman who sleeps around, and the other a woman from the Irish gentry in the 1850's that according to court records had an affair. The modern day woman couldn't keep herself from sleeping with anyone, literally and frequently. A possibility that there could be any connection between these two women is extremely remote; yet, the author kept insisting there was. Frankly, I wonder how this book was ever even a candidate and then included on the NYT's Notable Book List. Even the book\u2019s title, \u2018Are You Somebody\u2019 had the author\u2019s publisher wondering if the historical woman was enough of a somebody or did it need a second opportunity to explain there was a dream of that somebody, somewhere! Obviously, I favor a well-developed historical storyline than a bodice-ripping romance once. Take a possibly intriguing story and stick with it. The rest of it was fluff and annoying. I probably won\u2019t read another book by this author. ...more This book wasn't at all what I thought it would be, but it drew me in because the writing was so beautiful. It took me a while to get into the book, but once I was over a hundred pages into it, I became totally intrigued. First of all, I love the way the author descibes Ireland, how beautiful it is, how scenic. And I love the details about the Famine, and how the author weaves past and present together in the text. This story is about a woman who finally decides to confront her past, and who ope This book wasn't at all what I thought it would be, but it drew me in because the writing was so beautiful. It took me a while to get into the book, but once I was over a hundred pages into it, I became totally intrigued. First of all, I love the way the author descibes Ireland, how beautiful it is, how scenic. And I love the details about the Famine, and how the author weaves past and present together in the text. This story is about a woman who finally decides to confront her past, and who opens herself up after staying closed off to people and to herself for so long. It's an engaging and vibrant story, the characters are real and alive, and the setting (London and then Ireland) is richly described. I highly recommend this book, not only is it a beautiful story, but it also has a lot of history in it, so that you can learn about the Famine and Ireland, while at the same time getting deep into the heart of the story. ...more I don't know where to start with this book. If I were to talk about the heroine, Kathleen, then I would be taking you through a maze without Ariadne's thread to get you out. If I were to tell you about the Irish, or the Talbots then I would be selling you shirt of some kind of fiction, the one that sinks into your mind when the leaves turn brown and fall to the ground. So, is this a beautiful read? Maybe. Is it worth your time? Well, the written word is always worth some time, but this one would I don't know where to start with this book. If I were to talk about the heroine, Kathleen, then I would be taking you through a maze without Ariadne's thread to get you out. If I were to tell you about the Irish, or the Talbots then I would be selling you shirt of some kind of fiction, the one that sinks into your mind when the leaves turn brown and fall to the ground. So, is this a beautiful read? Maybe. Is it worth your time? Well, the written word is always worth some time, but this one would command your attention. Is there any relief for Kathleen or any characters in the book? It depends on what kind of relief you have in mind, but Kathleen returns to Ireland after running away earlier on and making a name for herself as a Travel Writer and though her feet hit the ground, it's her heart that she realizes never left and was still wounded. A story about living your life to the fullest and moving on always. ...more Hmm, interesting to read the mixed reviews of this book on GoodReads. I thoroughly enjoyed it. The author is a grand storyteller and her language drew me in. I learned more about Ireland and the Potato Famine than I had known before and loved how she portrayed the people the main character, Kathleen , got to know during her sojourn in her homeland. And I really loved the story of the main character, who seemed very human and real to me. No, there are no neatly wrapped happy endings to the book, Hmm, interesting to read the mixed reviews of this book on GoodReads. I thoroughly enjoyed it. The author is a grand storyteller and her language drew me in. I learned more about Ireland and the Potato Famine than I had known before and loved how she portrayed the people the main character, Kathleen , got to know during her sojourn in her homeland. And I really loved the story of the main character, who seemed very human and real to me. No, there are no neatly wrapped happy endings to the book, but isn't that how life is? And the historical subplot was intriguing as well, shadowing the messiness and lack of resolution that is reality. Not a deeply meaningful book but definitely an enjoyable tale that lends itself to reflection about how we live our lives and our regrets. ...more An extraordinary book. I was completely blown away by the quality of the writing and was quickly drawn in to the story. This surprised me a little as I don't think the description of the book was able to convey how absorbing and well-written the book is. It is the kind of book that is worth reading even if there is nothing about the plot that seems intriguing. This book isn't historical fiction, per se, though I put it on that shelf. It includes a story within a story, and that inner tale is his An extraordinary book. I was completely blown away by the quality of the writing and was quickly drawn in to the story. This surprised me a little as I don't think the description of the book was able to convey how absorbing and well-written the book is. It is the kind of book that is worth reading even if there is nothing about the plot that seems intriguing. This book isn't historical fiction, per se, though I put it on that shelf. It includes a story within a story, and that inner tale is historical. The primary story also is reflective on the history of the famine in Ireland. ...more This book was lent to me by my daughter and I really wanted to like it. It is well-written and believable but somehow I found myself disliking the author, and that impacted my appreciation of the story. I surprised myself because I found that I was passing judgement...which is not a good thing. AAGH! Despite my experience I think it is worthwhile and something that women who choose \"the road not taken\" would really enjoy. A wonderful way of returning to Ireland, through layers of storytelling, to finally discover the business of celebrating life and love is in the small things, the shared homemade dinner and the cup of tea, watching the birds in the trees, letting go of bitterness. A great story! Nuala! you will be sadly missed. \"Ar dheis D\u00e9 go raibh a hanam\" Powerful. I was moved by this book so much I wrote a poem about it. For my vacation reading while I was in Ireland, I wanted to stay with the Irish theme (since I was in Ireland) but perhaps deviate slightly from the history books (since I would be going to a million museums, and also I was running short on Irish history books), so I instead packed \u2014 among other volumes \u2014 the copy of Nuala O'Faolain 's My Dream of You that I rescued from my aunt's Irish lit collection over the summer. It turned out to be a perfect choice for reading on the plane, and sometimes For my vacation reading while I was in Ireland, I wanted to stay with the Irish theme (since I was in Ireland) but perhaps deviate slightly from the history books (since I would be going to a million museums, and also I was running short on Irish history books), so I instead packed \u2014 among other volumes \u2014 the copy of Nuala O'Faolain 's My Dream of You that I rescued from my aunt's Irish lit collection over the summer. It turned out to be a perfect choice for reading on the plane, and sometimes in the car while driving around the picturesque sheep pastures of Western Ireland, and at breakfast in cute little B&Bs while eating porridge with honey and cream, and (possibly best of all) in the lounge at the Hotel Aisling in Dublin on a sunny Good Friday afternoon while drinking tea. It's not an especially long book \u2014 by my standards at least, clocking in at 544 pages \u2014 but most of these reading sessions were fairly short, as we had a pretty busy vacation schedule. My Dream of You is not the sort of book I tend to read too much of, in that it's a contemporary realism/litfic piece that's mostly about middle-aged people and sex, but if I'm going to read a depressing litfic book about middle-aged people and sex, I think this was a good pick for me in that it also has a lot of stuff about writing and history and travel and feminism (sort of) and being perpetually single, all of which actually are relevant to my everyday interests. And barring some unexpected tragedy, I will be middle-aged someday (I hope!). Our narrator and protagonist is Kathleen de Burca, a 49-year-old Irishwoman living in London where she has a successful career as a travel writer for a small company that is part of a larger company. When she is not traveling to glamorous locations for work, she lives alone in a basement apartment in London. Kathleen has been single since she broke up with her J-school boyfriend almost thirty years ago, but has a dedicated habit of having unfulfilling sexual encounters with every boring-ass traveling businessman or married douchebag who makes a pass at her in the course of her travels. O'Faolain's writing is engaging enough that I actually felt sympathy for Kathleen's transparently useless quest to find human connection via hooking up with randos in suits, instead of doing what I'd normally do, which is stick my nose into the air and harrumph that a fully independent, nomadic lifestyle is CLEARLY WASTED ON SOME PEOPLE. Part of this is because Kathleen's character is well-developed enough to make it clear that this lifestyle isn't actually totally wasted on Kathleen; she actually very much values her independence, especially having been raised in the stagnation and conservatism of mid-century Ireland by an authoritarian father and a chronically depressed mother. The tension between her desire to love and be loved and her desire to stay way the hell far away from the trap that was Irish domestic life when she was growing up provides a lot of the internal conflict for the book. When Kathleen's colleague and best friend dies unexpectedly, it precipitates a midlife crisis. For Kathleen, a midlife crisis looks like retiring early and returning to the Irish countryside to do research on an 1840s divorce case that she'd been interested in since J-school, known as \"the Talbot affair,\" in which the young wife of an Anglo-Irish landlord was accused of adultery with a groom. While she is there, she has a brief affair with a married Irish man who also lives in England, named Shay (short for Seamus), and does a lot of musing over her life \u2014 both her unhappy childhood in Ireland and the various dramas she's gotten into in England and around the world \u2014 and visits what family she has remaining in Ireland (a brother, a sister-in-law, and a niece). But the most fun bits are her interactions with the people of Ballygall (the little town she's doing research in) and the historical stuff she finds and the general low-grade absurdity of her time in the country. The hotel she checks into, the Talbot Arms, is a family-owned affair, and Kathleen quickly befriends the little clan that runs it. They keep putting her up into other accommodations for the weekend due to hosting various larger events: in a little thatched cottage during a teacher's convention, and in a very modern lakeside house belonging to some guy named Felix for a wedding. Kathleen meets Nan Leech, the ferociously judgmental and ancient local librarian, and interviews a couple other elderly locals about what they remember being told about the Talbot affair by their own elders. She pokes around the library and the old grounds of the estate, and writes a draft of what appears to be a historical romance novella about the case, the chapters of which are included within the book as she writes them. (The novella, in my opinion, is pretty good.) Some people might find the ending of the book not particularly satisfying, since it's a bit anticlimactic from what I think a traditional sort of ending would be, but I liked it. So much of the book is dedicated to Kathleen's mental rehashing of her terrible decision-making throughout her life, and I think she makes a non-terrible decision at the end, so I think it represents her growing up more (there is still growing up to do at fifty) and moving into the next phase of her life where hopefully she will continue to make better decisions. There are a lot of things in this book that I feel like I ordinarily would complain about, but in this case I think all work for the O'Faolain is telling (see above re: Kathleen's terrible decision-making skills). However, there are two main complaints I actually have. One is that the printing that I have has a big chunk of pages missing and replaced with a duplicate of the next chunk of pages instead \u2014 so the book goes from pages 1 to 277, then page 300-something to 330-something, then page 300-something again to the end. Obviously this is not the author's fault, as I am entirely certain she did not write it this way. My other complaint is that the novel eschews the use of quotation marks (although, interestingly, Kathleen does not in the excerpts from her novella). I'm decently used to reading things without quotation marks \u2014 French writing conventions universally use the em-dash to introduce dialogue, and My Dream of You is hardly the only English novel to forgo traditional quotation marks \u2014 but I still think it's unnecessary and a bit pretentious. I probably won't dip back into the world of depressing realistic fiction for another several months since I do have an extremely limited tolerance for reading about people who aren't enjoying their sex lives but keep goddamn having sex anyway (JUST GO DO SOMETHING ELSE WITH YOUR TIME, THE WORLD IS LARGE AND FULL OF INTERESTING THINGS), but if all Irish women's fiction comes with such a big dose of tragic history stuff \u2014 which I suspect it might \u2014 then when I do, that's probably where I'll go. Alternately, I might read O'Faolain's memoir, a copy of which I also stole from my auntie. Originally posted at http://bloodygranuaile.livejournal.co... . ...more This was a really interesting novel about passion and what lies at the bottom of it. Kathleen de Burca is an Irish writer on the cusp of fifty. Her closest companion, a colleague named Jimmy, dies. Thrust into an existential crisis, Kathleen returns to a nineteenth-century divorce judgment she read decades ago and decides she's going to find out what really happened - and returns to Ireland. It all comes back- her childhood, her father and mother, what it was like being young and female there. A This was a really interesting novel about passion and what lies at the bottom of it. Kathleen de Burca is an Irish writer on the cusp of fifty. Her closest companion, a colleague named Jimmy, dies. Thrust into an existential crisis, Kathleen returns to a nineteenth-century divorce judgment she read decades ago and decides she's going to find out what really happened - and returns to Ireland. It all comes back- her childhood, her father and mother, what it was like being young and female there. At the same time, a man enters her life. This could so easily be self-indulgent sensationalism, but what makes the novel is this shadowy awareness of all the hurts and verse that underlies Kathleen's self-aware and self-destructive drive towards passion. This gets better as the novel proceeds - in fact, I'd say that I started really enjoying the novel about halfway or two-thirds through. Some really good passages about Irish history and what it's like to be Irish, too. Flaws: the novel does feel both slow and overstuffed at certain points. This is a 500-page novel that could easily have been 300+ pages. But if you're in the mood for a self-aware, quasi-historical slow-burner, this is a novel to pick up. ...more \"My Dream of You\" is a tender and revealing look at relationship going forward from an unhealthy and fearful environment in childhood. Not everyone is born healthy, wealthy and wise and some homes are not nurturing ones. This was a very disturbing story in that it displayed one person's attempt at normalcy thru devaluing her sexuality and emotion. I found the story very good, the writing exceptional and the sadness it evoked raw and personal. I enjoyed this book very much. I feel that it is qual \"My Dream of You\" is a tender and revealing look at relationship going forward from an unhealthy and fearful environment in childhood. Not everyone is born healthy, wealthy and wise and some homes are not nurturing ones. This was a very disturbing story in that it displayed one person's attempt at normalcy thru devaluing her sexuality and emotion. I found the story very good, the writing exceptional and the sadness it evoked raw and personal. I enjoyed this book very much. I feel that it is quality literature that should be enjoyed by many readers. It is a mighty work. ...more A good \"vacation\" read about an Irish writer researching a love affair that took place during the Famine. date read is a guess A very Irish, very literary book, which does a wonderful job jumping back and forth between the present and 1848 Ireland (immediately after the worst of the Famine). The narrator's voice is both quirky and sympathetic, making you feel that she's speaking directly to you, even when she's saying something brilliant (like using a very classy and appropriate metaphor). The best part for me was when an elderly librarian wrote down what a typical landowner's \"lodge\" (not one of the grand Big Houses) wo A very Irish, very literary book, which does a wonderful job jumping back and forth between the present and 1848 Ireland (immediately after the worst of the Famine). The narrator's voice is both quirky and sympathetic, making you feel that she's speaking directly to you, even when she's saying something brilliant (like using a very classy and appropriate metaphor). The best part for me was when an elderly librarian wrote down what a typical landowner's \"lodge\" (not one of the grand Big Houses) would consist of in 1840's rural Ireland, and then compared it with an inventory of what would exist in the village of 4,000 people outside the landowner's gates. The estate (which in this case housed one couple and their one child, plus servants) had a 30-room mansion, 80,000 acres, walled gardens and orchards, lawns and gatehouses, at least one fishpond, a kennel, deer park, bull-paddock, piggery, harness room, vegetable garden, calf sheds, stables, duck ponds, lofts for storing grain, beehives, heated brick wall behind greenhouse glass for cultivating exotic fruits like peaches and flowers like camellias for the house. An inner walled garden for vegetables and soft fruit. A dairy, large number of pedigree cattle and sheep, breeding sows and offspring, lumber mill, corn mill, mock hermitage or ruined castle, ice house, furniture, silver, paintings, plates, rugs, carriages. Staff including cooks, housemaids, kitchenmaids, parlor maids, gardeners, stewards, yardmen, farmhands. Plus, there was a house in London with its own staff. Now here's was the entire material wealth of ALL of the 4,000 people in the village: 1 cart, no coach or any other vehicle, 1 plow, 20 shovels, 32 rakes, 7 table forks, 93 chairs, 243 stools, 2 feather beds, 8 chaff beds, 3 turkeys, 27 geese, no bonnet, no clock, 3 watches, no mirror above 3d. in price, and no more than 10 square feet of glass. Makes you think\u2026 She also had a lot of wonderful history of the Famine years. Equally interesting was the main character, a witty, promiscuous and very sad travel writer trying to deal with loneliness after the loss of her dearest friend, and sorting through the scars of a painful childhood. And she's trying to write a book about a historical incident involving the adultery of a landowner's wife. Okay, it sounds kind of odd, but it's really an engrossing and well-done novel, which made me want to read more by the author. ...more The book interrelates the historical past, personal memories and Katherine\u2019s current life. I was impressed with the books ability to take events from these three times to explore love, particularly romantic love. Katherine \u2013 the main character \u2013 prefers passionate love over daily prosaic love. She examines each relationship that is in her life hoping to find examples of passionate love. Her journey is constantly disappointed. Sometimes the love stories are brutal and oppressive. Her boyfriend, H The book interrelates the historical past, personal memories and Katherine\u2019s current life. I was impressed with the books ability to take events from these three times to explore love, particularly romantic love. Katherine \u2013 the main character \u2013 prefers passionate love over daily prosaic love. She examines each relationship that is in her life hoping to find examples of passionate love. Her journey is constantly disappointed. Sometimes the love stories are brutal and oppressive. Her boyfriend, Hugo, beats her and kicks her out of their shared apartment. In other places the love story contains simple disappointments \u2013 forgetting to call. Prosaic love is dismissed. Although Miss Leech, her librarian friend, makes the best case for it - not for herself - but for Katherine. Because Katherine is an author investigating a love story that happened during the Irish potato famine, the novel is able to compare different stories of how men and women relate. Katherine\u2019s very introspective thought process concerning love allows her to explore many angles of the topic. The novel has some strong emotional moments having nothing to do with passionate love (and often done as reversals). -\tMarianne, her friend who befriends her literally as Hugo is kicking her out. -\tMiss Leech\u2019s party before she goes into hospice care -\tKatherine\u2019s gift to her brother sends him on a bender These moments - simple expressions of compassion, friendship - are reported on, but almost undermined in favor of the pursuit of passion between a man and a woman. Almost - because there's also a strong celebration - thought muted - of these friendships. As a reader (looking closely for what the writing accomplishes) - I was able to move through the different periods of time and keep clear on the stories along with Katherine's reflections of the stories. You remain very close to Katherine's interior thoughts. ...more Layered and atmospheric, this book relates, within the context of an historical divorce case, the tragic life of the Irish country people during what is euphemistically called \"The Potato Famine\", but was actually a form of genocide manipulated by the English aristocracy, as well as a modern writer's struggle with the emotional emptiness of her own life. Ms. O'Faolain's honesty in portraying women's sexuality is also refreshing. The painful loneliness that her semi-autobiographical central chara Layered and atmospheric, this book relates, within the context of an historical divorce case, the tragic life of the Irish country people during what is euphemistically called \"The Potato Famine\", but was actually a form of genocide manipulated by the English aristocracy, as well as a modern writer's struggle with the emotional emptiness of her own life. Ms. O'Faolain's honesty in portraying women's sexuality is also refreshing. The painful loneliness that her semi-autobiographical central character, and the woman from the past share in common is a powerful and sensitively explored theme. You feel immersed, along with the central character, in the long ago world of the subjects of her research for the historical novel she is writing. Ultimately she writes a very different story than she anticipated, and you are carried along on her journey to the discovery that what we consider \"truths\" about the past are subjectively influenced by many things, including the distance from our point of view in the present. This book was particularly meaningful to me on a personal level because of my Irish heritage. My Irish forebears came to the USA as a result of what the Irish now call \"The Hunger\". Knowing that they lived through the ordeal described in this story, including the harrowing journey across the ocean in the hope of finding freedom, safety, and sustenance, all the while sorrowfully missing their beloved homeland made the story deeply, personally moving for me. Ms. O'Faolain's considerable gifts bring both stories vividly to life, and intertwine them in such a way that the past seems intertwined and connected to the present in an indescribable but undeniably clear way. Her Ireland is haunted with the ghosts of a past that comes alive in us even against our wishes. ...more I read this b/c it was a selection for my book club. Initially I thought it was going to be yet another \"women's interest\" book, probably (or at least hopefully) an enjoyable read, but nothing of lasting importance to me. Well, I am happy to say, I was very wrong. Oh, this book definitely will appeal mostly to women. But for excellent reason. The narrator, Kathleen de Burca, is a single woman around age 50, who fled Ireland and her family after high school, for an England she could not become co I read this b/c it was a selection for my book club. Initially I thought it was going to be yet another \"women's interest\" book, probably (or at least hopefully) an enjoyable read, but nothing of lasting importance to me. Well, I am happy to say, I was very wrong. Oh, this book definitely will appeal mostly to women. But for excellent reason. The narrator, Kathleen de Burca, is a single woman around age 50, who fled Ireland and her family after high school, for an England she could not become completely comforable with. The plot consists of three main story lines: 1) the narrator's current trip to Ireland and the circumstances that spurred it, and that arise from it; 2) the historical tale the narrator is investigating; and 3) the narrator's personal history. Her style and voice are very believable. She's flawed but INCREDIBLY sympathetic. Rather than weak, this strong character is smart and competent. Throughout the book, in the framework of the intertwining plot lines, she faces her past, examines her present, comes to terms with her regrets, and walks forward into her future. The narrator' self-examinations are refreshingly honest, not morbidly piteous, and touched with flashes of humor. For example, after musing about a particular character trait of a friend... \"I have always appreciated the good in other people, I said to myself, as if to recommend myself to an invisible judge.\" Themes explored include class, Ireland and the Irish, family, passion/romance/love, friendship, hope, regret, acceptance, forgiveness, and dreams for the future. This book moved me both to laughter and tears, and helped me to feel I am not alone with my own self-doubts. It's hard to know, after all \"so many books, so little time\", but I have a feeling my future may hold future revisits to this title. ...more I listened to this book, rather than reading it, which I think made it more palatable. My Dream of You introduces Kathleen, who left Ireland for England as a teenager and hasn't been back since. She is in her 50s and her life looks successful enough - she is a travel writer - but she is still unhappy and without a lover. She finds a story of a British woman being banished from Ireland and divorced by her landed and titled husband during the famine, because she had an affair with an Irish servant I listened to this book, rather than reading it, which I think made it more palatable. My Dream of You introduces Kathleen, who left Ireland for England as a teenager and hasn't been back since. She is in her 50s and her life looks successful enough - she is a travel writer - but she is still unhappy and without a lover. She finds a story of a British woman being banished from Ireland and divorced by her landed and titled husband during the famine, because she had an affair with an Irish servant. She decides to investigate and heads back to Ireland for the first time in over 30 years. This investigation leads to a novel within a novel as she unravels a romantic mystery. The book is well enough written, contains some interesting talk about the famine from the people who survived it in Ireland - there is an excellent librarian and local historian character who really stick with me. The main character I did not love, and I thought was not as well developed as she could have been. Her reasons for not coming back to Ireland ever were vague and never clarified. Her dad was an asshole, her mom died, things were traumatic. I think. Her main drive is the search for love for herself and a love story for her work. I felt a little frustrated with her lack of self-awareness and reflection and wasn't hugely interested in her journey or how she treated the love story she does find - she projects her own wishes on the people involved in her \"novel\" and looses the historical thread while writing a sort of sub-par love story. What I did enjoy about the novel was the historical and political discussion of the famine and living in England as an Irish person in a period of heightened IRA activity. ...more This was a little jaggedly written and uneven--as sometimes happens with an author's first novel. It seems like the author tried to accomplish too much in one story. Nevertheless I was profoundly touched by this book. So much so that I have reserved books at the library on the Famine. It left such an indelible mark on the Irish psyche that, for sure, it still lingers today even in the attitudes and emotional character of Irish Americans (and Irish who settled elsewhere). The Famine is not discusse This was a little jaggedly written and uneven--as sometimes happens with an author's first novel. It seems like the author tried to accomplish too much in one story. Nevertheless I was profoundly touched by this book. So much so that I have reserved books at the library on the Famine. It left such an indelible mark on the Irish psyche that, for sure, it still lingers today even in the attitudes and emotional character of Irish Americans (and Irish who settled elsewhere). The Famine is not discussed much in schools etc...so I really had no idea of what the conditions were truly like. Back to the book: On a personal level...her observations of herself, her family, her parents' relationship, the family alcoholism, difficulty finding healthy love, the loneliness, the disconnect...on and on...she is a very familiar person to me. Hard to say if it's the Irish thing, the woman thing or both. Probably both. Although I didn't quite get her promiscuous behavior. She was a tough cookie in so many other ways, but never fought off men's advances. (I saw it as example of her disconnect). I enjoyed the sex passages with her and Shay. They belonged there, I thought. I did not find them gratuitous or disruptive as others have. On a side note: I got so caught up in this book (which I just finished yesterday) and Nuala--that I looked up information on her. Don't know if it was accurate or not, but I read commentary somewhere that she was in denial of her own alcoholic tendencies--and she died not long ago in very sad conditions . I was very sorry to hear about both. I found her observations of herself and everything around her splendid. ...more Rarely these days does a book come your way that is so beautifully old fashioned in a way that modern literature is not. This is. It's big, rambling, and absorbing in a way that you cannot let go of it even when you aren't reading it. , The characters are bluntly human, frail, and brimming full of life and despair and absolutely everything that makes life simultaneously painful and beautiful. It's a story about a woman who thinks she knows who she is but discovers in mid-age she doesn't have a c Rarely these days does a book come your way that is so beautifully old fashioned in a way that modern literature is not. This is. It's big, rambling, and absorbing in a way that you cannot let go of it even when you aren't reading it. , The characters are bluntly human, frail, and brimming full of life and despair and absolutely everything that makes life simultaneously painful and beautiful. It's a story about a woman who thinks she knows who she is but discovers in mid-age she doesn't have a clue, so she takes on an unsolvable mystery to solve the mysteries of self and she never really accomplished either but in a delightful way because every chapter is like eating baklava- you never know how many layers there are until your teeth and tongue lightly encounter them. It is a book filled with surprises because you, the reader, are on that journey of self discovery too, and every single page reveals something and creates even more mystery. It's broad and encompassing as she meanders about aging, sexuality, woman's relationships to each other as friends and as family, to understanding your place in historical context and how your perceptions are so limited to the time you grow up in and your family background. I was spellbound. It's utterly open, honest, and vulnerable and you will love each and every character. It's as Irish as it gets and no one should ever be without Irish art in their life. ...more<---C>Nuala O'Faolain</---C>", "Title": "My Dream of You"},
