{"Comments": "I absolutely loved The Accident by <---A>C.L. Taylor</---A>,<---M> thought it was really taut clever fiction</---M>, so naturally I dived into <+++>The Lie</+++> with much gusto and excitement, waiting for that page turning feeling that is like an addiction to book addicts around the world. What I got was a mixed bag of a book to say the least. It's left me somewhat baffled as to where it went in places and why. I shall do my best to express how it impacted me. I know your name's not really Jane Hughes... Jane Hughes has a loving par I absolutely loved The Accident by C.L. Taylor, thought it was really taut clever fiction, so naturally I dived into <+++>The Lie</+++> with much gusto and excitement, waiting for that page turning feeling that is like an addiction to book addicts around the world. What I got was a mixed bag of a book to say the least. It's left me somewhat baffled as to where it went in places and why. I shall do my best to express how it impacted me. I know your name's not really Jane Hughes... Jane Hughes has a loving partner, a job in an animal sanctuary and a tiny cottage in rural Wales. She's happier than she's ever been but her life is a lie.<---F> Jane Hughes does not really exist</---F>. Five years earlier Jane and her then best friends went on holiday but what should have been the trip of a lifetime rapidly descended into a nightmare that claimed the lives of two of the women. Jane has tried to put her past behind her but someone knows the truth about what happened. Someone who won't stop until they've destroyed Jane and everything she loves... Timeline switching happens all through the book, from Jane and her friends years ago, before and during their holiday and to the present day, with Jane and her secrets and her new and hidden life. It's pretty easy to follow, not confusing like some timeline switching can be. I really loved the pace, the plot and the energy of the book up to them arriving at the holiday destination of a lifetime, it's hard to share without spoilers, but it's not quite what everybody expected. At this point in addition to the group of friends a number of new and flawed characters are introduced and I can confidently say I did not take to one of them. Events start to have a sinister, complex and tense edge to them, the loyalties and friendships are tested, strained and damaged, some repaired some not. You can sense the book going into a darker place. But then, I was kind of incredulous, all these quite unbelievable events start to happen that are very extreme but mostly everybody is playing it down and carrying on as normal in this place. To me that was not realistic at all, any sane person would be running for the hills (<---B>in this case down the hills</---B>) at the first opportunity, but NO, they stay on for more weirdo stuff, creepy events and things that I wish I could share but can't. I lost some respect for the plot at this point, it really seemed to get very far-fetched, entertaining but at times boring also, so hard to express how I felt. It was like someone else wrote the middle of the book. Whilst it was intense, for me it seemed quite disjointed. I could not understand what the women were thinking! Reading what is happening on the holiday and then tying it in with what Jane is experiencing in modern day was great however, as you are trying to put the clues together and it's not that easy. I really liked Jane as a character all the way through the book. I also found Al to be one of the better characters, she is just who she is. The book salvages itself with a fast paced and action packed, tense ending that did have the heart going and me on the edge of my seat. Then just when I think all that is over in Nepal, we swing to modern day action packed ending that again I found entertaining but really over the top to imagine to happen in real life. I know it's fiction but I have to say I found good portions of the plot a bit out there to be realistic. The past and the present collide with a bang. So, overall - easy to read, entertaining for most of it, a page turner for nearly all of it, but in my mind some flaws in plot development and twists. But not a negative or bad review at all, just my opinion. Some will rave, others may not. This is how the book review goes. I have to say I thought The Accident was a more sophisticated and cleverly written book overall. My final rating is 3.5 for The Lie, it would have been a 4 if not for the sections of the plot that a found a bit too liberal to be realistic. Thanks to the publisher via NetGalley for my copy of The Lie in return for an honest review. ...more This review can also be found at Carole's Random Life . 3.5 Stars I would have to say that overall I liked this book. I enjoy a wide range of books and find that mixing things up works best for me. I have been reading way too many romances lately so I was immediately interested in this book because I was in the mood for a mystery. The fact that the cover promises that it will be \"Dark and creepy\" was really just an added bonus. I really had a hard time getting into this story as I started reading th This review can also be found at Carole's Random Life . 3.5 Stars I would have to say that overall I liked this book. I enjoy a wide range of books and find that mixing things up works best for me. I have been reading way too many romances lately so I was immediately interested in this book because I was in the mood for a mystery. The fact that the cover promises that it will be \"Dark and creepy\" was really just an added bonus. I really had a hard time getting into this story as I started reading the book largely because of the dual timeline. I actually set this book aside early in my reading to read another book which isn't something that I do very often. Once I picked the book back up and read about a third of the story I was much more interested in what was going on. The second half of the book really flew by and I couldn't pull myself away from the story. This book is told in two different timelines: the present and five years ago. It switches back and forth every chapter or two which really made it hard for me to get into the book. Each timeline is really a different story with different characters and separate problems. In the present, Jane is working in an animal shelter, dating a divorced teacher, and really just living a quiet life. Jane was a different person five years ago....literally. Five years ago, Jane was Emma. Emma and her group of girl friends take an extended vacation to a retreat in Nepal. Emma's group of friends were the kind of girls that I love to hate with the exception of Al. Trying to figure out what was really going on at this retreat was really what grabbed me about the book. I have to admit that I just couldn't figure out where the story was going. Jane's past is catching up to her in the present. When she receives some strange messages, she is at a loss as to who could be sending them. I wasn't quite as pulled into the mystery set in the present time. Jane and Emma really didn't even seem like the same character in a lot of ways. As I read the story, I believed that the key to solving her current mystery was held in what actually happened at the retreat. In the end, I thought that the present storyline was much weaker. This was a good story that was fast paced and kept me guessing. I really wish that I had truly liked any of the characters. Leanne and Daisy had no redeeming qualities while Al and Emma/Jane just felt flat to me. This book was just missing that special something that makes a good book become great. I would recommend this book to others. It was a good story that was a little different than the norm. This is the first book by C.L. Taylor that I have had a chance to read and I plan to look for her work in the future. I received a copy of this book from HarperCollins - Avon via NetGalley for the purpose of providing an honest review. ...more This is a creepy read which just oozes menace in every chapter. Five years ago four friends \u2013 Emma, Al, Leanne and Daisy went on holiday to a spiritual retreat in Nepal, but it was a holiday that ended in disaster and we know right from the start that not everybody returned although we don\u2019t know the full horrific details until much later in the book. Five years later Emma has a new identity - Jane \u2013 a new job and a blossoming relationship. Her past is a highly guarded secret, or is it? Someone This is a creepy read which just oozes menace in every chapter. Five years ago four friends \u2013 Emma, Al, Leanne and Daisy went on holiday to a spiritual retreat in Nepal, but it was a holiday that ended in disaster and we know right from the start that not everybody returned although we don\u2019t know the full horrific details until much later in the book. Five years later Emma has a new identity - Jane \u2013 a new job and a blossoming relationship. Her past is a highly guarded secret, or is it? Someone seems to have discovered the truth about her. Who that is, we are not told. The book unfolds in dual time, with the story of that fated holiday unfolding alongside that of Emma/Jane in the present. I really loved the parts of the story set in Nepal as what seemed at first glance to be a relaxing break in a spiritual retreat turns darker, menacing and increasingly violent. I really liked the way the cracks in the girls\u2019 friendships suddenly widened and their relationships turned more and more sour by the day. In the present day, Emma/Jane is being tormented by her mystery stalker who claims to know her identity and the truth of what happened on that holiday. I really felt the tension and wanted to scream at her not to trust anyone. It is the story of a friendship that will break down with disastrous results, one of lies, deceit, treachery, bitchiness and gruesome violence. It was a read that I didn\u2019t want to put down. I read it on the bus, on the loo and late into the night because I just had to know what was going to happen. Many thanks to the publisher for the review copy. ...more 3.5 stars Thank you to Net Galley, HarperCollins UK, Avon and author C.L. Taylor for an ARC of this book in exchange for an unbiased review. The Lie is a suspenseful novel about a British woman who is being stalked five years after a horrifying experience while on vacation in Nepal. It is immediately clear that the events are connected. The tale is told in first person narrative from the point of view of the protagonist Emma (aka Jane). The chapters alternate between the Nepal adventure five years 3.5 stars Thank you to Net Galley, HarperCollins UK, Avon and author C.L. Taylor for an ARC of this book in exchange for an unbiased review. The Lie is a suspenseful novel about a British woman who is being stalked five years after a horrifying experience while on vacation in Nepal. It is immediately clear that the events are connected. The tale is told in first person narrative from the point of view of the protagonist Emma (aka Jane). The chapters alternate between the Nepal adventure five years previous and the present day. First, some positives. There are a lot of characters in both stories, and for the most part, you just do not know whom Emma can trust! Can she even trust her best friends in Nepal or her boyfriend in present-day Wales? Who can say? Not me! The tale also has a markedly sinister feel to it, which I really like. Emma, the protagonist, is very likeable, which to me is always a plus. I am not one of those readers who doesn\u2019t mind a story where there is no one to root for. The better of the two stories is the one set in Nepal. There are many suspenseful moments that make you want to read on to see what happens. It is a bit of a jolt, however, to have to alternate between Nepal and then Wales five years later; just as you are getting immersed in one story, the chapter ends, and you have to flip back to the other time period. This constant moving back and forth in time broke up the flow for me. I have to say I am not keen on plots involving anything resembling a cult, and this lessened my enjoyment of The Lie. This is a personal dislike and not something that should dissuade readers without that opinion from reading the book. Another issue I have with the book is that the relationship between two major characters undergoes a drastic unilateral change almost overnight. This was a little too unbelievable for me. This is an important point as this switch is central to the plot. Back to the positives, there are aspects of the novel that really made me think. Can you trust your friends and lovers implicitly, especially during a time of crisis? You would think so, wouldn\u2019t you? Or would you? And what lengths will the people closest to you go to meet their own needs? Will they sell you out? Can you trust anybody but yourself? Overall, I think The Lie is an enjoyable and highly suspenseful novel. Ms. Taylor did an excellent job, especially considering this is only her second novel, and I will likely read other books by her. I recommend The Lie to all suspense and thriller fans. ...more I... did not enjoy this at all. It felt way too unrealistic and predictable. I hated each of the characters for various reasons and could not connect with any of them, nor did I want to. The ending was zero percent satisfying, and in all honesty, the writing was bland. I never felt the suspense I was supposed to, and I felt like I was being told more than shown. The flipping back and forth between past and present was fine until the present spoiled things that happened in the past that could hav I... did not enjoy this at all. It felt way too unrealistic and predictable. I hated each of the characters for various reasons and could not connect with any of them, nor did I want to. The ending was zero percent satisfying, and in all honesty, the writing was bland. I never felt the suspense I was supposed to, and I felt like I was being told more than shown. The flipping back and forth between past and present was fine until the present spoiled things that happened in the past that could have made good, actual plot twists. And the questions I was left with that made me curious to keep reading the past chapters were never addressed properly. It's no fun reading a story when you know how it ends. It also pissed me off how just downright dumb the main character Emma was. The book (at least the 'present day' parts) is written in first person present, so Emma herself is making observations about what's happening. None of it was clever narrative leaving clues or foreshadowing. How she wasn't suspicious of certain people (I say this so as not to spoil, but really, it's obvious) right off the bat, I have no idea. Your boss tells you someone has been prying into your life right when a while bunch if other creepy crap is happening, you're going to be wary of that person. But Emma? Nahhh. She's supposed to be paranoid because of what happened to her, and yet she's really not. She's kind of just vapid and clueless. It made me feel let down as a reader. Also the whole debacle about where her anxiety pills are... She finds them in -spoiler-'s bag, yet that's it. She never asks/confronts them about it and it's never addressed again. Um. Why even bother with that plot line then? It was like her panic attacks were a 'cool, quirky characteristic'. *narrows eyes* It wasn't so bad in the beginning, but nearer to the middle and end it started to feel cheap, like the 'dark' and 'psychological' bits were thrown in there for shock value, and IMO they were meh. The delivery just failed. I stuck through to the end hoping I was wrong about how boring and obvious everything seemed, because by the time I realized I was getting really fed up, I was already 3/4 of the way through. No point stopping there, I figured. So since the book held my interest enough for me to finish even though I really didn't end up enjoying it at all... 2 of 5 stars. Edit: Because this is still bothering me: There's this one seen near the end where a lot of violence/death/death threats happens. It's a very intense scene. Or it should have been. The main character was witnessing it, but did she react at all in the several pages the scene took? Just at the end. And it was lacking considering all that went on. There was way too much tell tell tell. If a book is told from a character's perspective, first person even, and we get no reactions to what's going on? That's just lazy. ...more After reading \"The Accident\" which kept my blood pumping fast way into the night I have been silently stalking C L Taylor. From afar I have been waiting for this book to come out, and way hooooo, it came out on Net Galley. I also heard from her publishers in my email account, so hey, I guess they knew I couldn't wait. I have purposely waited until now to get my reading matter done on this new book from this author as I know many would grab and start reading it right away. I wanted to wait. I want After reading \"The Accident\" which kept my blood pumping fast way into the night I have been silently stalking C L Taylor. From afar I have been waiting for this book to come out, and way hooooo, it came out on Net Galley. I also heard from her publishers in my email account, so hey, I guess they knew I couldn't wait. I have purposely waited until now to get my reading matter done on this new book from this author as I know many would grab and start reading it right away. I wanted to wait. I wanted to wait for the hype to simmer down so that I could chill out......they hype this book up again where it deserves to be. We have a bunch of friends who go travelling, it was meant to be three destinations, but they only got to two. This book is written where we have 'up to date NOW' and PAST 5 years ago.... You need to keep up as the book reflects back on the past. Jane Hugh works and loves being in the animal sanctuary. She has a steady man in her life, she seems to be happy. But Jane cannot be happy because as we all know, the past can come back to bite you on the bum! And that is exactly what happens to her. There are a series of events that take place in the PRESENT DAY and then we go back to the PAST where we are told and experience what happened with her friends. We not only have LIE'S we have SECRETS, and we know secrets come out too and get revealed when we least expect them. The ones we thought we could trust, can we? The ones we thought we couldn't trust, can we not? I adored this authors last book, and I loved this book. I really don't know how authors dream up these stories, they are enthralling, compulsive, addictive and my time just flies when reading books such as this. My thanks go to C L Taylor for yet another compulsive read I won't forget. And to HarperCollins UK, Avon via Net Galley for my copy to read and review ...more In the crowded psychological thriller market it can be tough to stand out, but CL Taylor succeeds here by mixing a zeitgeisty tale of friendship-gone-wrong and secrets from the past with Alex Garland's 90s blockbuster The Beach. This is a fast-paced, tense and atmospheric novel; a good old-fashioned thumping good read. The descriptions of the sinister community in Nepal are evocative and exciting. There are some great set-pieces - CL Taylor is brilliant at writing nail-biting action scenes - and In the crowded psychological thriller market it can be tough to stand out, but CL Taylor succeeds here by mixing a zeitgeisty tale of friendship-gone-wrong and secrets from the past with Alex Garland's 90s blockbuster The Beach. This is a fast-paced, tense and atmospheric novel; a good old-fashioned thumping good read. The descriptions of the sinister community in Nepal are evocative and exciting. There are some great set-pieces - CL Taylor is brilliant at writing nail-biting action scenes - and the characterisation is spot-on. This is a guaranteed bestseller and that's, ahem, The Truth. ...more This was a gripping psychological thriller examining the fragility of friendship between 4 young women each emotionally damaged in their own way. I literally could not put this book down and read it within a day whilst cooking and stayed up most of the night to finish it. CL Taylor has a fabulous talent of describing places and people that I could visualise everything as I read it. Highly recommend this book. The Lie is a really excellent follow up to \u201cThe Accident\u201d a book I was enthralled by last year, clever and tense psychological thrillers both. In The Accident the focus was on parental relationships and secrets, here with \u201cThe Lie\u201d it is all about friendship. Jane Hughes was not always Jane Hughes. In her other existence she and a group of friends went on the trip of a lifetime \u2013 What happened during that holiday led Jane to change her name and hide away from the world. Now, however, someone has The Lie is a really excellent follow up to \u201cThe Accident\u201d a book I was enthralled by last year, clever and tense psychological thrillers both. In The Accident the focus was on parental relationships and secrets, here with \u201cThe Lie\u201d it is all about friendship. Jane Hughes was not always Jane Hughes. In her other existence she and a group of friends went on the trip of a lifetime \u2013 What happened during that holiday led Jane to change her name and hide away from the world. Now, however, someone has tracked her down and soon the truth will emerge\u2026 I do love books like this for their utterly addictive quality, where a past story is slowly drip fed to you in conjunction with present events, slowly but surely leading you towards the full picture. Ms Taylor does this particularly well by using some really excellent and emotive characters to pull you in. These friends could be any friends \u2013 the relationships we form as we head into adulthood tend to be the ones that stay with us even if we drift apart, this is captured in essence here perfectly even as this particular group fractures and falls. I adored (hated) in equal measure every single one of them. This is why it is so completely enthralling throughout\u2026.when faced with an untenable situation, what do you do when the people you relied on, trusted, turn their backs on you? As an exploration of the petty jealousies and rolling emotions that can hide underneath the surface of the most solid seeming relationships this is pitched perfectly with some thought provoking themes and scenario\u2019s. Add to that the fact that it is truly haunting \u2013 I\u2019m not giving too much away on the plot, what happens to the girls is horrific, but you should come to that on your own \u2013 still it is terribly creepy at times, there is one character in particular that I found to be as scary as he was intriguing and the situation is very authentic and possible which of course makes it even more frightening. I will give a nod to Daisy. Daisy was a character who I wanted to punch in the mouth and I am not a violent person. Still, she was absolutely captivating, truly memorable, fascinating and provocative, I\u2019d like to bet that like me, she will be one who will stay with you for the longest after the story is done. Overall then a most terrific read, a huge page turner and a beautifully written snapshot of friendship and the things that separate us. Convincing and chilling, this comes highly recommended from me. ...more The Lie was a thrilling read that was very hard to put down. If I didn\u2019t have to eat, sleep and work, it wouldn\u2019t have left my hands. The main focus of this story is about female friendships, and what can happen if those friendships become strained and taken over by competitiveness, jealousy and lack of trust. Jane (previously named Emma) tries to reinvent her life after the traumatic holiday in Nepal, which she went on with her three friends five years earlier. Unfortunately that is not meant to The Lie was a thrilling read that was very hard to put down. If I didn\u2019t have to eat, sleep and work, it wouldn\u2019t have left my hands. The main focus of this story is about female friendships, and what can happen if those friendships become strained and taken over by competitiveness, jealousy and lack of trust. Jane (previously named Emma) tries to reinvent her life after the traumatic holiday in Nepal, which she went on with her three friends five years earlier. Unfortunately that is not meant to be, and her past comes back to haunt her in more ways than one. Someone knows about her past and is taunting her in the present. Who is it and what will be the outcome? As the story progresses, we learn what actually happened in Nepal. After what I read in this book, I don\u2019t think I\u2019ll be going to Nepal in a hurry, and will just stay here in West Cornwall with my husband and two dogs. There is a very interesting mix of characters, some more likeable than others. I softened to Jane immediately, as I loved her compassion for animals. The depth of secrets and lies amongst the four friends is rather impressive, and makes it very hard to work out who is good or bad, and who is safe to trust. Every time the book took me back to Nepal, I just wanted to get out of there. I could feel my anxiety increasing every time I was taken back into the past, and would be screaming at some of the characters to get out of there NOW. I strongly recommend this to anyone who likes psychological thrillers, and I can\u2019t wait to read The Accident. I would like to thank the publisher, HarperCollins UK, Avon for allowing me a copy of this book via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. ...more The Lie \u2013 Brilliant Psychological Thriller The Lie is the second book from Cally Taylor who debuted with The Accident in 2014 which was a wonderful debut. If Cally was a musician who had an excellent debut album we would be talking about the difficult second album but fortunately for us she is a writer who gets even better with her second book. The Lie is an absolutely brilliant thriller that keeps you guessing all the way to the end, with plenty of twists that keeps you guessing. The telling of The Lie \u2013 Brilliant Psychological Thriller The Lie is the second book from Cally Taylor who debuted with The Accident in 2014 which was a wonderful debut. If Cally was a musician who had an excellent debut album we would be talking about the difficult second album but fortunately for us she is a writer who gets even better with her second book. The Lie is an absolutely brilliant thriller that keeps you guessing all the way to the end, with plenty of twists that keeps you guessing. The telling of the story from 2 aspects again appears in this thriller and is a fantastic device. I do feel sorry for Cally Taylor\u2019s child, when he asks for a bed time story from mummy it must scare the living delights out of him! Emma, Daisy, Leanne and Al became friends at University up in Newcastle and even when they all relocated down to London after graduation they remained close. They are all stuck in jobs that they do not enjoy and seem to be stuck going nowhere even in their relationships with others. To blast the cobwebs away from their lives they decided to go on the holiday of a lifetime to Nepal to a retreat, Ekanta yatra, Leanne organised the trip for them all. Four of them leave for the holiday of a life time but there are only two who return as the others were dead. Five year later the two survivors are no longer in contact with each other, Emma angry that Al sold their story to a newspaper, both moved away from London. Emma has reinvented herself as Jane Hughes, who works at an animal sanctuary in Wales called Green Fields. Since getting back from Nepal Emma has tried to move on from what happened and that her two friends died there. She is in a new relationship and maybe something is going well for her for a change. Emma receives a letter and a couple of emails that shakes her to the core telling her that Daisy is alive and it is her that should be dead. Facebook messages and text messages also start arriving that shakes her up, along with a new volunteer at Green Fields who seems far too interested in her. It is when she is a victim of a hit and run accident that things start to turn serious and she is advised that she could be in danger as the police investigate. It is when Green Fields is set alight that she finally has to face the demons of her past and can she save the innocent victims the animals while protecting her own life? The Lie is a downright dark and very twisted psychological thriller that is a compelling rollercoaster of a read especially as the tension builds to a crescendo finale when we finally receive the answers to the questions posed throughout the book. With the multiple twists in the examination of friendships and cults you really do enter a dark and very creepy world. The characters are well developed well written and the story really does grip you by the throat and not let you go until the end. I certainly would not want to get on the wrong side of Cally Taylor because The Lie is an example of her thinking she has a seriously twisted mind that would make her revenge a very painful cold dish being served. The Lie is a dark twisted totally creepy psychological thriller that will have you gripped from the beginning to the end. Who knew friendships could be as dangerous as those in The Lie after reading this I shall be reassessing my friendships for sure. A fantastic read that will raise Cally Taylor\u2019s reputation as a writer even higher. ...more \"Your past doesn't have to define your future, not if you won't let it\" is one of the messages in The Lie. Told in the first-person perspective of Jane/Emma, the story alternates fluently between the present and the past. 5 Years ago, Jane was known as Emma. She embarked on the trip of a lifetime with three female friends visiting a \"retreat\" in Nepal. 5 years later, she's living a secluded life in Wales, working in an animal shelter and using a different name. What happened during their time ab \"Your past doesn't have to define your future, not if you won't let it\" is one of the messages in The Lie. Told in the first-person perspective of Jane/Emma, the story alternates fluently between the present and the past. 5 Years ago, Jane was known as Emma. She embarked on the trip of a lifetime with three female friends visiting a \"retreat\" in Nepal. 5 years later, she's living a secluded life in Wales, working in an animal shelter and using a different name. What happened during their time abroad and why is somebody taunting Jane/Emma now after all this time? This was my first time reading a book by British author C.L. Taylor, and I really enjoyed it. The Lie was a very sinister and atmospheric tale of psychological suspense. At one stage, I was doubting everybody who was around Jane, completely unsure whom to trust. Jane was a very likable character, but there weren't many of those. I thought the book was extremely good at depicting the dynamics of groups. Firstly, the female toxic friendships that were shaped by competitiveness, envy and bitterness and secondly, the group dynamics at the \"retreat\" in Nepal, which showed how easily people can be manipulated and how dangerous a situation can turn once a follow-the-leader environment has been established. However, there were some situations in Nepal as well as in Wales where I felt the plot was losing some credibility. Nevertheless, it was such a tense, fast-paced and provocative story, which was refreshingly different, I really liked it and will seek out more by this author. Many thanks to Sourcebooks Landmark for my copy via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. ...more Jane has a nice settled life. Living and working in the Welsh countryside has its benefits. A job in the local animal sanctuary, a new boyfriend with great potential as a keeper and a peaceful existence overall. However, she has been hiding the truth from everyone and an anonymous note may be the beginning of the end of her quiet days, as her secret comes back to haunt her. Five years previously, a different world, a different circle of friends and a summer of change. A girls holiday, a right o Jane has a nice settled life. Living and working in the Welsh countryside has its benefits. A job in the local animal sanctuary, a new boyfriend with great potential as a keeper and a peaceful existence overall. However, she has been hiding the truth from everyone and an anonymous note may be the beginning of the end of her quiet days, as her secret comes back to haunt her. Five years previously, a different world, a different circle of friends and a summer of change. A girls holiday, a right of passage that most young women enjoy before settling down and having kids. Sun, adventure and escapism. What could go wrong? What, indeed... C.L. Taylor has taken the concept of a girls trip and twisted it on its axis, bringing the reader on a journey to hell. Jane and her three girlfriends decide to escape their humdrum lives (and a recent heartbreak) to Nepal, with expectations of luxury spa treatments, trekking up mountains and a safari finale. The planning is quickly arranged, finances sorted and off they go. Lazing around the pool, lizard watching, having a few beers and laughing til their bellies ache. The sun beats down and the girls begin to unwind. Unfortunately, tensions build at break neck speed and the atmosphere becomes icy, despite the heat. Things take an even darker twist when the girl hike up a mountain to stay at a commune for meditation and massage. There is a sinister aura and friendships are tested to the extreme. Lies, deceit and disappearances replace the plans for retreat and relaxation. Just who can be trusted? Will everyone make it back down the mountain in one piece? This is my favourite thriller of the year, so far! I read it in one day and completely ignored my family for the duration. (No need to call social services, my husband had the day off). A psychological thriller to rival The Girl on The Train, this is a cracker of a novel. From the beginning, the reader is aware that Jane has a secret, one that is serious enough to warrant a change of name. Usually this is where authors head down the abusive husband/missing child/whacko relative past, but this book leads us on an exotic journey into the minds and actions of some seriously damaged souls. As Taylor peels back the layers from her characters, teasingly switching time frames, there is a real need to read 'just one more page'. Four very different girls, Emma, Daisy, Leanne and Al make for a wonderful mixture of personalities and the friction between them increases as the trip becomes a dangerous, disaster zone. The author writes with fantastic insight into her character's minds and produces a flawless, dark tale which hooks the reader from page one. Not too long, or too short, with great pacing, this is a must read for fans of a cracking good thriller. Thankfully, the tagline does not read 'For fans of Gone Girl' which is my pet hate, due to over-use, but I am sure there will be many novels, to follow this one, which will have 'For fans of The Lie' sprawled across the front. Sure to linger on bestseller lists for the foreseeable future... ...more Having read C L Taylor's debut thriller last year, The Accident, which I loved, The Lie was on my wishlist as soon as it was announced. I was lucky enough to receive an ARC from the publisher which has been glaring at me from the bookshelf, until I couldn't wait any longer and bumped it up to the top of the TBR. Five years ago, Jane Hughes was called Emma Woolfe and she and three friends set out for the holiday of a lifetime to Nepal. The fun that they were expecting however soon turned into a ni Having read C L Taylor's debut thriller last year, The Accident, which I loved, The Lie was on my wishlist as soon as it was announced. I was lucky enough to receive an ARC from the publisher which has been glaring at me from the bookshelf, until I couldn't wait any longer and bumped it up to the top of the TBR. Five years ago, Jane Hughes was called Emma Woolfe and she and three friends set out for the holiday of a lifetime to Nepal. The fun that they were expecting however soon turned into a nightmare. The suspense starts at the very beginning when Jane receives a letter at the animal sanctuary where she now works, indicating that someone knows her secret. I was hooked already and intrigued to find out why Jane changed her name and what did she have to hide? The story then flips between the present and the past. We\u2019re with the girls as they excitedly prepare for their holiday retreat in the mountains. We also see the cracks that gradually appear in the friendship and watch it becoming something nasty and frightening. The characterization is so good - people who you thought were trustworthy turn out to be anything but and the sinister undertones increase as gradually the story unfolds. All four friends had flawed but interesting characters. They may not have been very likeable but each had their own issues which all played a part in the trauma that was to follow. The Ektanta yatra retreat, where they were staying, was anything but a haven of peace and tranquility, some of the people there may have seemed charming and welcoming but a few had an agenda of their own. Most of the time my sympathy was with Emma \u2013 there were times when I thought she was a bit naive but I could identify with her character and I felt for her at the way she was treated. This excellent story has so much going for it \u2013 there is a wonderful sense of place, particularly the setting in Nepal and there is darkness to the plot which made me worry for the four friends and added to the sense of fear as I turned the page. There are so many psychological thrillers out there now but C L Taylor has certainly found her place in this genre and I\u2019m very much looking forward to the next book. ...more Last year C.L. Taylor wrote the engaging \u2018The Accident\u2019, a psychological tale about family relationships. This time, Taylor focuses on friendships, with a story about a group of female friends and a nightmare holiday abroad. We meet \u2018Jane\u2019, a woman living incognito. She hasn\u2019t even told her boyfriend who she was. Five years ago, Jane went on holiday with a group of close female friends. They went to Nepal and ended up staying at a retreat. The retreat was not what it seemed. Not all of Jane\u2019s fri Last year C.L. Taylor wrote the engaging \u2018The Accident\u2019, a psychological tale about family relationships. This time, Taylor focuses on friendships, with a story about a group of female friends and a nightmare holiday abroad. We meet \u2018Jane\u2019, a woman living incognito. She hasn\u2019t even told her boyfriend who she was. Five years ago, Jane went on holiday with a group of close female friends. They went to Nepal and ended up staying at a retreat. The retreat was not what it seemed. Not all of Jane\u2019s friends came back alive. Five years on and Jane is being pursued and the truth is about to come out. What happened to Jane to make her want to distance herself from the past? What I enjoyed about this read was its bleakness, strangely enough. It seemed to have a great deal to say on the fragility of friendships and the sadness of toxic relationships. Weak friendships under pressure breakdown. Jane is left alone, having been once part of a happy group of long term friends. It didn\u2019t take much for the friends to turn on one another and to act jealously and possessively. I found this all very easy to relate to. I was also intrigued by the cult (or what seemed to me to be a very new age type cult) and the way they tried to control the behaviour of the women. It was very well done and I could believe it. Overall this was a highly readable and rather sad story, about how friendships can go very wrong. It will make you think twice about going to a retreat in Nepal. Thanks to Netgalley and Avon for my review copy! ...more What happens when a group of close girlfriends decide to take a trip to help one of them get over a broken relationship? Nepal seems a great place. Al one of the friends tells them of a great paradise retreat she's heard of in the mountains and they can just chill for a few weeks. Sounds great!!!! But this trip will be nothing like paradise and soon the friends friendship will be tested far more than they could ever imagine .... My thoughts... This was very different, told in past and present it w What happens when a group of close girlfriends decide to take a trip to help one of them get over a broken relationship? Nepal seems a great place. Al one of the friends tells them of a great paradise retreat she's heard of in the mountains and they can just chill for a few weeks. Sounds great!!!! But this trip will be nothing like paradise and soon the friends friendship will be tested far more than they could ever imagine .... My thoughts... This was very different, told in past and present it was an edge of seat thriller, where escape, murder and mystery kept me engrossed till the end. ***ARC provided by Netgalley in return for an honest review*** ...more I would like to thank both Net Galley and my Goodread friend Jules for recommending this book to me. A psychological thriller based on the friendship of four girls who encounter jealousy and misunderstandings that put their relationships to the test. The story alternates between present day and the nightmare that occurred 5 years ago. A fast paced thriller that is both an excellent page turner and a very good novel that is full of very strong characters. I enjoyed the book so much that I plan to I would like to thank both Net Galley and my Goodread friend Jules for recommending this book to me. A psychological thriller based on the friendship of four girls who encounter jealousy and misunderstandings that put their relationships to the test. The story alternates between present day and the nightmare that occurred 5 years ago. A fast paced thriller that is both an excellent page turner and a very good novel that is full of very strong characters. I enjoyed the book so much that I plan to read another of the authors books \"The Accident\" very soon. ...more I don't know how to review this book The Lie by C L Taylor was okay but i was not sure where it was going was totally confused & really did not get me in at all i know a lot of 5 star ratings were given but to me it was a flat read maybe i am in the minority but its just my opinion. 21/2 stars A tense thriller from author C.L. Taylor, The Lie is a story of friendship, deception, secrets and betrayal. \"A couple of weeks ago I found a picture of the four of us, taken by a stranger outside Kathmandu airport...We all look so fresh faced and hopeful in the photo, and we were. It was supposed to be a holiday of a lifetime.\" Best friends since university, Emma, Al, Daisy and Leeanne, are heading to Nepal for the holiday of a lifetime, where, in between exploring Kathmandu and treking in Chitwa A tense thriller from author C.L. Taylor, The Lie is a story of friendship, deception, secrets and betrayal. \"A couple of weeks ago I found a picture of the four of us, taken by a stranger outside Kathmandu airport...We all look so fresh faced and hopeful in the photo, and we were. It was supposed to be a holiday of a lifetime.\" Best friends since university, Emma, Al, Daisy and Leeanne, are heading to Nepal for the holiday of a lifetime, where, in between exploring Kathmandu and treking in Chitwan, they are planning on spending a week relaxing at an isolated spiritual retreat. 'Ekantra yatra' initially seems to be everything the brochure promised but within days the friendship between the four girls sours, corrupted by the charismatic leader, Issac. Five years later Jane Hughes receives an anonymous note, 'I know your name's not really Jane Hughes'. Whoever sent it knows the truth, 'Jane' is really Emma, but do they know she has been lying about more than her identity? Jane/Emma has been keeping the whole secret of what really happened in Nepal for five long years. When the anonymous note is followed by sinister texts, purportedly from Daisy, Jane reaches out to Al, the only other member of their foursome who returned from 'Ekantra yatra'. \"I was lying to myself when I said that your past doesn't shape your future. Or maybe it was wishful thinking. Your memories are the one thing you can't run from, the one thing you can't change.\" As the narrative shifts between the past, revealing what actually happened five years previously at 'Ekantra yatra', and the present, Taylor skilfully builds suspense in both timelines. As Jane/Emma's carefully constructed life in Wales is falling apart in the face of escalating threats from her stalker, the friendship between the four best friends begins to disintegrate in Nepal. Within days of their arrival at 'Ekantra yatra' it's clear the retreat is not what it seems. Manipulated by Issac who preys on their insecurities and petty resentments, the girls turn on each other with frightening ease and as their friendship implodes, the danger escalates. \"How had our holiday gone so wrong? We'd arrived at Ekanta yatra as friends, friends with issues rumbling beneath the smiles and excitement, but ours was a friendship that had outlasted uni and survived relocation, jobs and relationships. Or so I thought. And yet the bonds I believed were strong were only ever superficial and, like a game of Jenga, all it took was one false move and everything collapsed.\" With a strong premise, supported by interesting characterisation, The Lie is a well paced, dramatic and atmospheric tale of psychological suspense. ...more Jane Hughes has a loving partner, a job in an animal sanctuary and a small cottage in Wales. She's more happier than ever but her life is based on a lie. She receives a letter at work in which its one line content was definitely not what she expected. A phycological thriller that mixes friendship and trust. I would like to thank Net Galley, SOURCEBOOKS Landmark and the author C.L. Taylor for my ARC in exchange for an honest review. Also available on the WondrousBooks blog. *** 3.5 stars *** I should add this to the \"Unexpected Netgalley Gem\" shelf. I had not set any expectations and I was pleasantly surprised by the book. My initial thought was that this can potentially turn in The Girl on the Train , which I really didn't like despite all of the positive reviews it got. But I was surprised to find myself with a much more interesting and suspenseful novel. The story revolves around a woman, Emma, who went on a nightmarish\u00a0t Also available on the WondrousBooks blog. *** 3.5 stars *** I should add this to the \"Unexpected Netgalley Gem\" shelf. I had not set any expectations and I was pleasantly surprised by the book. My initial thought was that this can potentially turn in The Girl on the Train , which I really didn't like despite all of the positive reviews it got. But I was surprised to find myself with a much more interesting and suspenseful novel. The story revolves around a woman, Emma, who went on a nightmarish\u00a0trip to Nepal with her friends after which she was forced to change her name and escape her previous life. The setting was great, both the story in the past and the one in the present were engaging and creepy and I found myself having no idea what to expect will happen, which has become a rare occurrence nowadays. I was eager to read on and on and I kept that pace up until the book was over (and I was just about expecting someone to jump from under my bed). Personally, I found the events in Nepal to be scarier and\u00a0\u00a0very unsettling. This is my second book of this type in the last couple of months (I will not disclose the other one because the common denominator in both is not shown in the description and can be seen as a spoiler by the pickier readers), but this was surely the better one. The entire storyline in the resort made me feel bothered and creeped out, which is always exciting when you are reading a book or watching a movie on a similar subject. Overall, the author did a very good job setting up the atmosphere, especially the jumps from the present to the past and the other way around, which were set in the exactly right moments. As for the characters, I think they were also a writing success, that not meaning that I liked them. In fact, I disliked the majority of them with a special fire and I think that was the intention of Taylor, so good job, buddy. Daisy was a very unpleasant person, and although I saw what the others might have liked about her, she was overall just so damaged that I am surprised anyone could find her \"the best one\" in a group, which says a lot about the group itself. But it was Leanne that I could have punched in the face with... a chair or an ax or something. She was just the most horrible human being. Isaac was a close second but it was immediately obvious that there was something wrong with him and the entire hippie group in Nepal. However, among the four friends there was a certain normalcy at the beginning so it was both interesting and unbelievably frustrating to see how their relationship began falling apart because of their disgusting personalities. Al was just annoying, because she was the real peoplepleaser. She sided with whomever was convenient, not with whomever she really liked and trusted. As to Emma/Jane, she was by far the most normal one, but I do agree that she was a wet blanket. Especially considering how drastically her personality changed from the past to the present, which made it obvious that she could act like a normal person if she wanted to. My issues with the book were of less importance, to a degree. I did not like the ending, specifically. The tension did not build to a high enough degree. The author did a masterful job of building it throughout the entire book and there was no outlet in the end. It kind of just dropped. As for the other thing, it is not a problem as much as I found it weird. There were two expressions that I have never in my life seen in a book. Ever. I would have paid attention like I did now and I would have remembered it. I realize that they are probably local expressions to the author, but as they are clearly not that popular, as for me to have never read it among hundreds of books, I ask myself, why were they repeated so often. One of them in particular seemed like a joke the first time I read it but then it was repeated over and over and over again: \"But Leanne and Daisy have been living in each other's pockets for days now.\" And this one... every time they were talking about blushing, this was used instead. \"... the base of her throat coloring pink.\" ...about the English language. ...more I launched into this book with gusty and it certainly grips from the start. It has all the hallmarks of a good page-turner: a clear plot, conflict in almost every scene, two distinct timelines that are engaging and every chapter ending in a mini cliff-hanger. There are two stories running alongside each other (present v past), which works well. In the present 'Jane' (aka Emma) is knocked sideways when she's contacted anonymously by someone from her disturbed past that she's tried desperately to I launched into this book with gusty and it certainly grips from the start. It has all the hallmarks of a good page-turner: a clear plot, conflict in almost every scene, two distinct timelines that are engaging and every chapter ending in a mini cliff-hanger. There are two stories running alongside each other (present v past), which works well. In the present 'Jane' (aka Emma) is knocked sideways when she's contacted anonymously by someone from her disturbed past that she's tried desperately to leave behind. In the past (five years earlier), the narrative gradually reveals the ways in which a retreat in Nepal she went on with three friends turned into a holiday from hell. Before long we see why Emma was so keen to move on from those events, where all her friendships appeared to collapse and she faced jeopardy at every turn. It's a book about trust, spiteful jealousies and secrets - an easy read - I had flu and whipped through it. ...more 4-4.5 Stars... \"Your past doesn't have to define your future, not if you won't let it\" What if your life was a lie because of messed up moments in your past you want no one to know about? What if somehow this past is being thrown back in your face 5 years later by somehow who shouldn't be able to do so? This compelling psychological thriller focuses on friendships between women and what happens when pressure points are pushed. What will it drive you to do? How will you react? Will it strengthen or 4-4.5 Stars... \"Your past doesn't have to define your future, not if you won't let it\" What if your life was a lie because of messed up moments in your past you want no one to know about? What if somehow this past is being thrown back in your face 5 years later by somehow who shouldn't be able to do so? This compelling psychological thriller focuses on friendships between women and what happens when pressure points are pushed. What will it drive you to do? How will you react? Will it strengthen or destroy your bonds? Do you know your friends as well as you think you do? Four \"friends\" take a vacation to Nepal to cheer up one of their own, and somehow things go very wrong! This book is chock full of heart-racing, hair-raising moments...the crazy, the psychotic, the scary! Who can you trust will be the main question you ask yourself in this story told through the present tense and 5-year-ago flashbacks. It alternates between the two and both will have you turning page after page until you reach the conclusion! My first impression was Christopher Pike meets In a Dark, Dark Wood and really that never left me. To me that sums it up perfectly! I have loved Pike for years, and I loved IADDW, too. Read this one for thrills and scares and have a safe cozy book waiting to help you recover your senses... **Many thanks to NetGalley and Sourcebooks Landmark for an ARC** ...more 3.5 stars. This book is very well written thriller. Thanks to writer-C.L.TAYLOR. I like this book, the way writer leading the story with a suspense since Chapter 1. And keep flows it well. This is one of the most suspenseful books I have read lately.... Four seemingly benign friends set out for the holiday of a lifetime in Nepal to separate one from an ex-lover whom she is stalking. But that is not the only reason for this holiday. The main reason is known to only one of the four...... Five years later, one of the four has changed her name and carved herself out a comfortable new life in Wales. She has the job she has always dreamed of, and a promising relationship with a new man in This is one of the most suspenseful books I have read lately.... Four seemingly benign friends set out for the holiday of a lifetime in Nepal to separate one from an ex-lover whom she is stalking. But that is not the only reason for this holiday. The main reason is known to only one of the four...... Five years later, one of the four has changed her name and carved herself out a comfortable new life in Wales. She has the job she has always dreamed of, and a promising relationship with a new man in her life who knows nothing of her past. For the first time in years Jane is feeling happy and secure. But then she receives a message - \"I know your name's not really Jane Hughes\"... This book is well written and is full of menace, intrigue and suspense. A real page turner! Thank you to publishers HarperCollins UK, Avon, author CL Taylor and NetGalley for this complimentary copy in exchange for an honest review. ...more Four friends leave for the holiday of a lifetime at an exclusive retreat in Nepal, but only two return. When everything you thought you knew about your friends, their loyalty and their trust is severely tested, how would you react. And how would you handle finding yourself thrust in the spotlight, facing judgment and speculation about what really happened in the few weeks that changed your life forever, claiming the life of your best friend. Jane Hughes has a secret. A bloody great big one by all Four friends leave for the holiday of a lifetime at an exclusive retreat in Nepal, but only two return. When everything you thought you knew about your friends, their loyalty and their trust is severely tested, how would you react. And how would you handle finding yourself thrust in the spotlight, facing judgment and speculation about what really happened in the few weeks that changed your life forever, claiming the life of your best friend. Jane Hughes has a secret. A bloody great big one by all accounts. For one thing, she isn\u2019t really Janes Hughes. Before she moved to Bude and before she got a job at Green Fields Animal Shelter, Jane Hughes did not exist. Before she was Emma Woolfe, unlucky in love and ruled by the expectations of her mother and her friends. Now, as Jane, she has an adoring partner, a job she loves and everything to lose by her past being exposed. It\u2019s not that she ever did anything wrong, but as lies go, the one she is telling, the secret she is keeping, is about as big as they come. But someone, somewhere is determined to see the truth come out, and for Jane to pay for the sins of the past. \u2018The Lie\u2019 is an extremely well-crafted and tense psychological tale. Exploring the fragile relationship of Jane/Emma and her inner circle of friends, the story hones in fully on the sometimes toxic world of all female friendships, the side that is more \u2018Mean Girls\u2019 than \u2018Spice Girls\u2019 where girl power gives way to jealousy and power play games as each person feeds on the negativity and weakness of the next. In this particular group of friends out protagonist, Emma, is the weak link. Afraid to upset her friends, undermined and ridiculed by her supposed best friend Daisy and side-lined by Leanne at every possible turn, she is someone for whom reinventing themselves would be no bad thing, if only it hadn\u2019t come at such a high cost. The central theme of the story is about what happened at this retreat in Nepal, a kind of pseudo-cult run which nobody ever leaves, at least not through choice. Emma is immediately suspicious of the place but manipulated by her friends into staying, used and then ostracised by the \u2018leader, Isaac, and subjected to all kinds of abuse from her so-called friends. The story is told from Emma\u2019s point of view as is set in both the past in Nepal and the present day in Wales, where Emma/Jane is now being tormented by someone who knows her real identity and seems to know the truth of what really happened on the mountain. The creation of setting and character is key in a novel like this and Taylor has both just right. Emma is a likeable character, well-meaning if a little over emotional and easily ruled by others, and the character of Daisy is deliciously cruel in the way in which she treats Emma. There is something in her make up from the word go that leads the reader on, sensing the gradual decline of her mind and the build to the final dramatic conclusion with Emma. Leanne is manipulative and sly, slowly undermining the relationship between Daisy and Emma, poisoning their group and widening the fissures in an already fractured friendship. It is true that the action is faster paced and perhaps a little more edgy in the Nepal setting than in present day Wales, as the threat and danger is ever present for Emma, and in a secluded retreat in a country so far from home, she has far more to fear than she has in Wales where she can perhaps walk into any police station to report her stalker. That said, the beauty in the present setting is the creation of the intriguing set of suspects as to who could be trying to expose Emma/Jane and to what end. This was a fast paced book which really drew me along and I read it in one evening. True, the ending did seem a little too simple perhaps, and after everything Jane had been through, you kind of think she would have known better, but then who are we to judge how a person will react in a given circumstance. In truth, nobody knows until faced with it themselves. Everyone likes to think they won\u2019t be sucked in by the lies of a cult and yet many people still fall foul, every single day. This is much more than just a book about a bunch of naive young women and a cult though. It is a really well observed look at the female in their natural environs. We all speak of equality, of the strength of female bonding, and yet just on one careless word one disagreement, we have the capacity to hate and excommunicate on a whim. To quote from Willian Congreve, \u2018Heav\u2019n has no rage like love to hatred turned, Nor Hell a fury, like a woman scorn\u2019d\u2019. Anyone who thinks otherwise is telling themselves a big fat lie. A tense and dramatic 5 stars. ...more The concept behind this novel is brilliant and I was looking forward to reading it. I have to say, it is a very creepy and dark plot, maybe a little too dark for me, but that aside, it certainly had me thinking about it for days afterwards and I couldn't put it down when I was reading it - even if it was with one wary eye! If you don't mind quite graphic, dark underbellies of worlds then this book is for you. It will make you feel uncomfortable. I, personally, didn't actually like any of the char The concept behind this novel is brilliant and I was looking forward to reading it. I have to say, it is a very creepy and dark plot, maybe a little too dark for me, but that aside, it certainly had me thinking about it for days afterwards and I couldn't put it down when I was reading it - even if it was with one wary eye! If you don't mind quite graphic, dark underbellies of worlds then this book is for you. It will make you feel uncomfortable. I, personally, didn't actually like any of the characters and found it a little hard to understand how the four friends, of whom the bulk of the story is set around, would actually be friends. They are all very damaged, but this probably was the draw of friendship between them. It ultimately turns out to be the demise as well. The plot is thrashed out in both past and present tense, which I quite enjoyed. I don't think I could have taken the intensity of it happening in present tense, so to get a break from what happened on 'the holiday' was always welcome. I felt the first two thirds of the book were better than the final third when it all seemed to become a bit rushed. I especially felt this with regard to the ending. For me, it didn't tie up all of the unanswered questions quite enough. That aside, for the bulk of the book I was gripped and it is certainly worth a read, particularly if you like the darker, grittier type of psychological thriller. ...more The Lie by C. L. Taylor Blog Tour - read an extract from the highly-anticipated follow-up to The Accident plus my 5* review for The Lie From C.L. Taylor, author of The Accident and one of The Bookseller\u2019s top ten debut authors of 2014, comes a much-anticipated and even darker new psychological thriller. The Lie was published in paperback by Avon on 23rd April 2015. Best friends are there for each other through thick and thin. You can trust them with your life. At least that's what Emma, Daisy, L The Lie by C. L. Taylor Blog Tour - read an extract from the highly-anticipated follow-up to The Accident plus my 5* review for The Lie From C.L. Taylor, author of The Accident and one of The Bookseller\u2019s top ten debut authors of 2014, comes a much-anticipated and even darker new psychological thriller. The Lie was published in paperback by Avon on 23rd April 2015. Best friends are there for each other through thick and thin. You can trust them with your life. At least that's what Emma, Daisy, Leanne and Al think. But all that changes when they embark on the trip of a lifetime together. They leave a close knit foursome...but only two return... An extract from The Lie: It\u2019s the next morning and I've only been at my desk for ten minutes when Geoff, my boss, wanders over. He lingers behind me, his hand on the back of my chair. I shuffle as far forward as I can so I end up\u00a0 perched right on the very edge of the seat. \"Late again, Emma.\" \"Sorry,\" I keep my gaze fixed on the spreadsheet in front of me, \"tube was delayed.\" It's a lie. We didn't get Al into bed until 2am and then I had to wait for a taxi to get me back to Wood Green. By the time I rolled into bed it was after three. \"You'll have to make up the time. I want you here until seven.\" \"But I was only five minutes late.\" \"I'll decide how long you stay.\" \"But I need to get to Clapham for seven, my brother's in a play.\" \"You should have thought about that this morning and got up earlier. Now,\" my chair creaks as he rests his full weight on it and leans around me so his mouth is inches from the side of my face. I can feel his breath, hot and sour in my ear. \"I'm expecting that spreadsheet by lunch time so I can look over it before I speak to the sales team this afternoon. Or should I expect that to be late too?\" I want to tell him to stick his spreadsheet up his arse. Instead I curl my hands into fists and press my fingernails into the palms of my hands. \"You'll get it.\" *** I\u2019ve been Geoff\u2019s PA for three years. He\u2019s the Head of Sales here at United Internet Solutions, a software, hosting and search engine optimisation company. I was only supposed to be here for three months, another of the countless temping jobs I took after university, but he extended my contract and extended my contract and then offered me a five grand pay rise and a permanent job. Daisy told me back then to turn it down and do something else but the only thing I\u2019ve ever wanted to do is be a vet and you can\u2019t do that with a business degree. And I couldn\u2019t face temping again.\u00a0 I wait until Stephen Jones, Geoff's favourite salesman and self-proclaimed 'top dog', strolls into his office and closes the door and then I head for the ladies loos, my phone hidden up my sleeve. I check the stalls to make sure that neither of the other two women who work for UIS are about then I dial mum's number. It's Tuesday which means she should be at home. She works in the GP surgery she and dad set up when they were newly married and still childless but she only does Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. The phone rings for several minutes before she finally picks up. She's had her mobile for years but still hasn't worked out how to install voicemail. My Review of The Lie: Wow! What just happened?! I've just emerged from my own little bubble after reading The Lie in one sitting, interrupted only by a few hours of much-needed sleep. I was so excited to hear that C. L. Taylor was publishing a new book, as I thoroughly enjoyed The Accident, her debut of last year. I knew that I'd be reading The Lie as soon as I was able! A tale of female friendships that is dark and disturbing, with fear and mistrust on every single suspense-filled page. With characters you love and loathe and an exotic setting, the author's descriptive prose brought this book to life and made me live the journey made by Jane. I smelled the rich earth and heard the waterfall, I laughed and cried, I was shocked and terrified, I couldn't put it down until I'd devoured every twist and turn and each unforseen revelation. I defy any reader not to enjoy this book, you need to read it, it is simply stunning! C. L. Taylor has rightfully earnt her place on my 'Destined for Huge Things' bookshelf. Gripping, nerve-wracking and ultimately shocking, The Lie acts as a reminder that the past can never be outrun \u2013 and the consequences can be deadly. Planting a seed of doubt in the closest of friendships, C.L. Taylor forces readers to ask the question: How well do you know your friends? The story of a couple with seemingly perfect lives\u2026and the secrets they hide behind closed doors. The Lie on Amazon: UK\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 US The Accident on Amazon: UK\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 US My review of The Accident ...more This review was originally posted on Between My Lines I snapped up this book without even looking at the synopsis as I enjoyed this authors d\u00e9but novel so much. Pretty smart decision by me as this one was even darker and had a sinister setting that gave me all the creeps that I expect from a psychological thriller! First Line of The Lie by C L Taylor: \u201cI know he\u2019s trouble before he even set foot in the building.\u201d My Thoughts on The Lie by C L Taylor: The Lie is told in two different timelines \u2013 t This review was originally posted on Between My Lines I snapped up this book without even looking at the synopsis as I enjoyed this authors d\u00e9but novel so much. Pretty smart decision by me as this one was even darker and had a sinister setting that gave me all the creeps that I expect from a psychological thriller! First Line of The Lie by C L Taylor: \u201cI know he\u2019s trouble before he even set foot in the building.\u201d My Thoughts on The Lie by C L Taylor: The Lie is told in two different timelines \u2013 the present and five years earlier. In the present you have Jane who works in an animal sanctuary under a new name and identity. However, her past is coming back to bite her. Five years earlier, you have Emma who is going off on holidays with three of her university friends. I usually have a favourite timeline and this time it was the one in the past. I loved the intricate relationships between the four girls. They don\u2019t have healthy attachments to each other and instead of their friendships boosting them up, they seem to drag them down. It seemed very realistic as after you leave college, your lives go in different directions and what were once strong bonds can alter drastically. However even that was my preferred timeline, I was still intrigued by the present day one too. I loved that it was suspenseful and had a dangerous underlying vibe to it. There was also a very slight romance in the present day but this is book about friendship more than anything else. Of the four friends, I only really liked the main character Jane/Emma. The others were various levels of horrible. And I love reading about dysfunctional characters so I thoroughly enjoyed the nastiness. Just call me crazy but I love a well-developed bad girl (disclaimer...in my books not in real life!). And this gang met my definition for thoroughly unpleasant. Plus through effective character development we get good insight as to why they were that way. There were no major twists or shocks in the book however the pace was tense and sinister so it still remained a page turner. And the setting was FAB! Arrrgghhh, I want so badly to tell you what it was but that would be a huge spoiler so I have to zip it! With difficulty! But it\u2019s a setting I haven\u2019t read about much and it meant the characters were very isolated and in a LOT of trouble. It was nerve-racking and captivating. Overall this is a great follow-up novel by C L Taylor and I look forward to her future books with anticipation. She does creepy and dangerous with ease and in way that sets my heart pitter pattering! Who should read The Lie by C L Taylor? I\u2019d highly recommend this to all those who enjoy reading about complex characters in a tense setting. If you enjoyed The Accident , then I think you\u2019ll equally enjoy this one. Fans of Unravelling Oliver by Liz Nugent, The Girl on the Train by Paul Hawkins and The Long Fall by Julia Crouch should also appreciate The Lie. Thanks to NetGalley and Avon UK for giving me a copy of this book in exchange for an honest, unbiased review. ...more C.L. Taylor has chosen one of the most the under-represented relationships to feature in psychological thrillers for The Lie which features friendship. When Al breaks up with Simone she is distraught and takes to stalking her and her new partner on facebook and in real life. Her three closest friends from their days at Newcastle university; Emma, Daisy and Leanne decide that action is needed and hit on a holiday to a retreat in Nepal where there is no internet, to help Al break the cycle and lea C.L. Taylor has chosen one of the most the under-represented relationships to feature in psychological thrillers for The Lie which features friendship. When Al breaks up with Simone she is distraught and takes to stalking her and her new partner on facebook and in real life. Her three closest friends from their days at Newcastle university; Emma, Daisy and Leanne decide that action is needed and hit on a holiday to a retreat in Nepal where there is no internet, to help Al break the cycle and learn to let her failed relationship go. In the present day we meet Emma Woolfe who has moved to Wales and works in an animal sanctuary, has a fledgling relationship with a teacher and is happier than she has ever been, but for some reason she is no longer Emma, she now goes by the name of Jane Hughes. Worse still an anonymous letter alerts her that someone has tracked her down. And so the questions begin; What happened on the holiday? What is she trying to conceal? And who is trying to expose Jane? Told in alternating scenes from five years previously on the trip and in the present day the author maintains the tension exceptionally well. This book works so well as an expose of the unsavoury side of female friendships without the accompanying mystery that it makes for quite uncomfortable reading at times. I certainly recognised some of the individuals although the author stops well short of creating stereotypical characters. With the cracks in their friendship already present before the trip, the author perfectly captures how allegiances are formed to serve ulterior motives and in this tale each member of the group did their best not to be excluded from the pack, probably a wise move in a setting where the rules of normal life had been swept away and substituted for those of a new age cult. There is also a good sense of place with the descriptions of Nepal beautiful and evocative so that I could imagine the scenery although I wouldn\u2019t have been too keen on the trek to the Ektanta yatra retreat. During that scene I could almost feel my muscles burning as the group followed their guide up the rough path and equally could visualise their relief when they were welcomed with a cup of chai. I am a huge fan of psychological thrillers and in this crowded genre it is great to find something that stands apart from the crowd, The Lie does exactly that from the unusual setting to the relationships being put under the microscope. That accompanied with the excellent pace which has tension ratcheting up in both the past and the present, this is a great addition to the genre. I\u2019d like to thank the publishers Harper Collins UK for allowing me to read this great book which will be published on 23 April 2015. If you can\u2019t wait that long you could always get yourself a copy of the author\u2019s debut The Accident which I also highly recommend. ...more<---C>C.L. Taylor</---C>", "Title": "The Lie"},
