{"Comments": "<---A>Sophie Kinsella</---A> strikes again! Although most of her books deal with both the professional world and relationships, she has managed to make every story unique and immensely entertaining. Although I didn't enjoy this novel quite as much as I've Got Your Number, it still immediately sucked me in and wouldn't let me stop reading until I finished. I think if I hadn't read this right after IGYN (<---B>my favorite book by her</---B>), I would have given it a full 5/5 stars, but blame Sophie Kinsella for making her Sophie Kinsella strikes again! Although most of her books deal with both the professional world and relationships, she has managed to make every story unique and immensely entertaining. Although I didn't enjoy this novel quite as much as I've Got Your Number, it still immediately sucked me in and wouldn't let me stop reading until I finished. I think if I hadn't read this right after IGYN (my favorite book by her), I would have given it a full 5/5 stars, but blame Sophie Kinsella for making her books like candy. I can't just read ONE and call it a day. As for the story,<---M> I loved how the main character</---M>, Samantha, was the high-powered career woman in the relationship instead of the man, which is seen in most of her other stories (although she does leave the job, but still). Also, <---C>Nathaniel</---C> was a total hunky dreamboat and I would like one for my own, please and thank you. All in all, I highly recommend it, just like all of her other novels. ...more 4.25 This was the first Sophie Kinsella book I ever read and it will remain my favourite. My mum actually picked this up for me, because she liked the blurb on the back. She would never read this sort of book; she is into China Meavile, Dan Simmons and Stephen King. Not the sort of stuff I read... At first, I was hesitant, but I started reading this in the car on the way home and it was addictive. I just could not stop; this book is romantic, moving with just the right amount of funny (it had a f 4.25 This was the first Sophie Kinsella book I ever read and it will remain my favourite. My mum actually picked this up for me, because she liked the blurb on the back. She would never read this sort of book; she is into China Meavile, Dan Simmons and Stephen King. Not the sort of stuff I read... At first, I was hesitant, but I started reading this in the car on the way home and it was addictive. I just could not stop; this book is romantic, moving with just the right amount of funny (it had a few of those major laugh out loud, cover mouth with fist moments). Overall, it was a really good read. Characters: 9/10 All just hilarious, even the ones I hated had some really funny lines. And the way Samantha talks about them.<---F> Priceless</---F>. Writing: 7/10 It\u2019s chick-lit for goodness sake. It was easy to read and took no brain cells whatsoever. Plot: 9/10 Interesting, quite original, moves at the perfect pace with the perfect twists along the way. It has an ending that you would expect but not expect at the same time. Does that make sense? Oh well. Moving on... Enjoy-ability: 9/10 A very fun read. ...more As you\u2019d expect, the story is a sitcom come to life: a work-obsessed attorney loses her job in a dramatic way and then plunges alone into the countryside \u00e0 la Jane Eyre, only to wind up being taken in as a housekeeper by some nouveau riche couple. The twist is. . . get ready. . . she doesn\u2019t know how to cook! Or run a washing machine! You can imagine the hilarity. In fact, you have to imagine the hilarity, because there isn\u2019t much written for you. That\u2019s not to say the book isn\u2019t entertaining. I As you\u2019d expect, the story is a sitcom come to life: a work-obsessed attorney loses her job in a dramatic way and then plunges alone into the countryside \u00e0 la Jane Eyre, only to wind up being taken in as a housekeeper by some nouveau riche couple. The twist is. . . get ready. . . she doesn\u2019t know how to cook! Or run a washing machine! You can imagine the hilarity. In fact, you have to imagine the hilarity, because there isn\u2019t much written for you. That\u2019s not to say the book isn\u2019t entertaining. It moves quickly, and it ends up validating the effort and skill involved in keeping house, which I liked. Plus I found the nouveau riche couple to be oddly engaging. (\u201cOddly\u201d because they reminded me of Southern caricatures written by someone who didn\u2019t know any actual Southerners and just created people out of stereotypes \u2014 like a hick couple who hits it big in the tire business and moves into a mansion but doesn\u2019t know to lose the big hair and get grammar. Of course the characters in this book are English, as is the author, which goes to show that mediocrity knows no nationality.) The big flaw is that even though this kind of book is bound to be contrived, it still needs to retain some believability. I can buy stumbling onto the one house that would take in a stranger (we buy it in Jane Eyre ), finding skulduggery at work, true love next door, and a host of other improbabilities because at least they\u2019re possible. But our heroine, in disgrace at her law firm, googles herself and finds a million entries about how she\u2019s become a national lawyer joke; at one point the tabloid press even starts following her \u201cstory\u201d! The problem is that, in reality, lawyers show up on our radar only if we\u2019ve hired them. A criminal defense attorney may have his day in the sun with a celebrity client, but other than that, who cares? Quick \u2014 name a contract attorney! Anyone?? How about any kind of attorney you don\u2019t know personally? The fact is that nobody cares if a lawyer loses her firm a lot of money and then becomes a housekeeper; the whole public ignominy angle is too manufactured even for chick lit. It reminded me of Shopaholic , where a would-be fashion writer somehow becomes a national figure and then a national scandal. How??? It\u2019s as though Sophie Kinsella is projecting some deep desire to be in the center of the public stage, holding the nation\u2019s microphone tearfully in hand. (Actually, I wouldn\u2019t mind that either, but only to rail on the government power grab and people who talk during movies.) I wonder if her \u201cOh no! The world is watching me during my moment of crisis!\u201d fantasy was brought on by too much reality TV, or . . . more likely. . . if reality TV exists precisely because so many people do have this desire for public display? Chilling thought. At any rate, that\u2019s probably not enough to condemn the book. It has its moments. And I think if it had been written differently I would have had patience for the more unrealistic aspects. However, the style was so aggressively breezy that it became wearisome. The author should have put more effort into creating a story that holds together and less time trying so desperately to be witty. Mercy \u2014 three paragraphs on a Costco paperback! ...more This story is about a 20-something, workaholic lawyer named Samantha. Sam leaves her job after making a huge mistake that costs her firm millions of dollars. She has put her whole life into this job, trying to become partner, and now it's over. She has a major meltdown, and ends up miles from home in the middle of nowhere working as a maid to a family that doesn't know anything about her true identity. She also doesn't know anything at all about being a maid as you can probably guess by the titl This story is about a 20-something, workaholic lawyer named Samantha. Sam leaves her job after making a huge mistake that costs her firm millions of dollars. She has put her whole life into this job, trying to become partner, and now it's over. She has a major meltdown, and ends up miles from home in the middle of nowhere working as a maid to a family that doesn't know anything about her true identity. She also doesn't know anything at all about being a maid as you can probably guess by the title. This makes for an interesting hilarious ride. At one point she has no idea how to use an iron and tells her boss that she can't figure it out because she's \"far more used to working with a Nimbus 2000\" These little comments pop up everywhere making the book fly by and making you really root for this poor girl who hasn't got a clue. A bit predictable, but I don't read her books thinking I'm going to be digging into a literary masterpiece. The romance was cute, but there really wasn't much of it. Nothing but fun and laughter all the way through. Sam was an extremely fun character to read about. She's funny, smart, and can really think quick on her feet. She shows genuine signs of maturity and growth throughout this quick read. I really liked how the ultimate message was delivered, though. In the end Sam has to take a look at her life and really figure out what is important, and what isn't. Perhaps you are putting too much effort into something that gives nothing back. This was my first book from Sophie Kinsella, but I will definitely read more of her books. Her humor is fresh, and if you go into this book solely expecting a light-hearted, fun read I think you will enjoy it. Recommended to all of Sohpie Kinsella's fans, and all chick-lit lovers. She is the queen of comedy! 3.5/5 Stars ...more After reading several books by Kinsella, the only major complaint I have is that the endings are extremely unsatisfying. She builds up the character development and story so, so well, only to have it all end just shy of the perfect HEA. The first thought I usually have after finishing her books is, \"Wait, what? That's it ?\" More than in Kinsella's other novels, this factor is impossible to ignore in <+++>The Undomestic Goddess</+++> . Samantha comes a long way from being a lawyer-zombie to a content housekee After reading several books by Kinsella, the only major complaint I have is that the endings are extremely unsatisfying. She builds up the character development and story so, so well, only to have it all end just shy of the perfect HEA. The first thought I usually have after finishing her books is, \"Wait, what? That's it ?\" More than in Kinsella's other novels, this factor is impossible to ignore in <+++>The Undomestic Goddess</+++> . Samantha comes a long way from being a lawyer-zombie to a content housekeeper, but that change isn't really explored as much as I would have expected. It's like as soon as SK decided she'd placed her characters exactly where she wanted, she lost all interest in finishing their story properly. In addition, Nathaniel should have played a bigger role in the book. Honestly, I felt a little cheated by the \"romance\". All the hints are there, but most of the scenes between the two MCs are simply skimmed over and told in retrospect. Overall, I liked reading The Undomestic Goddess , but I would have enjoyed it a lot more if there had been more story and less narration. This book doesn't leave any lasting impression, but it's still a fun read as long as you keep your hopes low. 2.75/5 stars For more reviews, visit my blog . ...more I keep reading Sophie Kinsella books because they're such a light, fast read and everything's so upbeat. But I'm also starting to get annoyed at how the main characters LIE SO MUCH. Most of their problems would be gone if they could just tell the truth . And the guys are always like \"oh that's totally fine nbd\" when everything comes out in the end. Samantha loses \u00a350 million in her job as a lawyer, so she flees to the countryside and accidentally gets a job as a housekeeper. She somehow is unable I keep reading Sophie Kinsella books because they're such a light, fast read and everything's so upbeat. But I'm also starting to get annoyed at how the main characters LIE SO MUCH. Most of their problems would be gone if they could just tell the truth . And the guys are always like \"oh that's totally fine nbd\" when everything comes out in the end. Samantha loses \u00a350 million in her job as a lawyer, so she flees to the countryside and accidentally gets a job as a housekeeper. She somehow is unable to cook absolutely anything besides toast and can't do laundry or clean... so some funny scenes ensue as she tries to cover her lies. She meets a cute guy and lets him believe she's fleeing an abusive relationship (WHY why omg why is the truth so hard) and both of her worlds eventually collide. The only character I really loved was the guy's mother who taught Samantha to cook. Otherwise I wasn't super into the story, but it was still all very nice . ...more I look along the endless line, squinting in the sunshine. I\u2019m twenty-nine years old. I can go anywhere. Do anything. Be anyone I like. \u201cThere\u2019s no rush,\u201d I say at last, and reach up to kiss him again. Excellent, funny, cute, sweet, romantic, fun...another great Kinsella book! 1.5 stars - Spoilers The worst Kinsella book I've read so far, it wasn't totally awful but it was pretty bad. The story was even more far-fetched and the main character even more daft than the other Kinsella heroines combined. The heroine (Samantha) was meant to be an Oxbridge educated lawyer with years of experience in the best law firm in the country, yet somehow she read more like a grade A idiot. I don't know why authors bother giving their main characters high IQ's and super smart careers wh 1.5 stars - Spoilers The worst Kinsella book I've read so far, it wasn't totally awful but it was pretty bad. The story was even more far-fetched and the main character even more daft than the other Kinsella heroines combined. The heroine (Samantha) was meant to be an Oxbridge educated lawyer with years of experience in the best law firm in the country, yet somehow she read more like a grade A idiot. I don't know why authors bother giving their main characters high IQ's and super smart careers when they can only portray them as complete thickos who can barely string a sentence together. -Really liked Trish and Eddie Geiger, they were such fun characters. I loved the way they bossed Samantha about and how they interacted with each other, they were pretty hilarious. I also quite liked Nathaniel, he was a normal, down to earth sort of guy instead of the usual rich, brooding, millionaire love interest. -How on earth do you accidentally become a housekeeper? Samantha lost her job at her law firm and took a random train to the middle of nowhere, she then knocked on a random house and acted weird and somehow that magically landed her a housekeeper job in a fancy mansion with a millionaire couple. Yea, right. She also got to stay in said mansion overnight after a two minute interview in which she acted like a nutter. Yea, because that seems likely. -Why would Samantha run away from her job? Sure, she thought she made a huge mistake costing her firm fifty million quid, but she was supposed to be a highly trained professional with years of education and training, and who worked well under high pressure and was ultra responsible and had a brilliant mind and work ethic. Yet she ran away like some sort of scared naive wet behind the ears idiot. Why would someone so hard working and responsible just ditch everything at the first sign of trouble? Why wouldn't she question everything? Why wouldn't she stay to investigate and defend herself? She worked all her life to be a top tier lawyer so why wouldn't she stay and fight for her career and reputation? It was all so nonsensical. -For a high flying lawyer Samantha sure was an idiot and a half. She couldn't follow basic recipes and cooking instructions without turning the kitchen into a bloody war zone. She even struggled with slicing bread and was unable to make a jam sandwich and hard boiled eggs (the silly cow put them in the microwave?!). She didn't even know how to iron without burning everything or wipe surfaces without making things worse. It was beyond ridiculous. Yes, not everyone knows how to cook well or do certain chores, but who the hell can't boil an egg or make a jam sandwich or wipe a surface?! I'm guessing Samantha's incompetence was meant to be funny or cute or something, but it was none of those things, it was plain stupid. -How was it Samantha was so unable to hold simple conversations? A top shot lawyer should at the very least be able to hold moderately intelligent conversations. Yet half the time Samantha just stuttered and mumbled and muttered her way through things. Also, when she found out she'd been set up at work and came across suspicious evidence that pointed to another colleague (Arnold) committing fraud, the silly cow couldn't confront him or make a convincing argument against him without looking like a demented psycho dumbo loser. She was meant to be a genius lawyer who regularly talked her way through all sorts of tricky situations and dealings yet when she confronted Arnold all she was capable of doing was stomping her feet and pouting, she did nothing to defend her reputation, she just talked rubbish. It didn't even occur to her to bring up the fact that Arnold had strong family connections to the company that took that 50 million. Ugh, she was the most unconvincing lawyer character in the fictional world ever. -Why was Samantha always yelling or mumbling or pouting? Would an experienced, professional lawyer really talk like that? I swear Samantha came across more like a belligerent child than anything else. -According to The Undomestic Goddess women can't have a glittering career and a fulfilling personal life at the same time. It's either one or the other. -So Samantha gave up her career and a chance of a lifetime to be a partner in a top law firm all so she could run off to Cornwall with a guy she'd known for a few months? I mean, she only worked her whole bloody life to achieve that level of success, it was her one ambition and dream but all that got thrown out the window because she was in lurve, and working as a lawyer was just too gosh darn difficult for her tiny woman brain. Ugh. If it hadn't been for the secondary characters, I don't think I would have been able to finish this. Even for a chick lit book, it was beyond ridiculous. ...more I must confess... Sophie Kinsella replaced Sarah Dessen and Cecelia Ahern in my top authors. I love how she writes. I haven't tried the shopaholic series but I've read her three books following that series which are, Remember Me?, Can You Keep a Secret? and The Undomestic Goddess. All her characters are witty. They are also serious parts but with the way she writes and the way her characters think are very light. There's also a mixture of romance in her books which gives her all the more reason I must confess... Sophie Kinsella replaced Sarah Dessen and Cecelia Ahern in my top authors. I love how she writes. I haven't tried the shopaholic series but I've read her three books following that series which are, Remember Me?, Can You Keep a Secret? and The Undomestic Goddess. All her characters are witty. They are also serious parts but with the way she writes and the way her characters think are very light. There's also a mixture of romance in her books which gives her all the more reason to be my favorite author. Samantha Sweeting is a workaholic. She was trained by her lawyer mother to be a great lawyer and because of that she dedicated herself in that career. She can't do anything else other than what she's good at which is to find loop holes and anomalies in other people's statements and legalities. She was the perfect lawyer and she was about to get a full equity partner ship which was her and her mother's long lived dream for her. With her IQ in 158 and being the youngest partner to-be and a 500 quid per hour salary she drives herself to be whom she thought she want to be... Then again, nobody knows the future for sure. A very impossible thing happened, she lost a 50 million contract for a company on the day of the announcement of the partnership. She panicked. Her heart raced and then she fled! Feeling lost and nowhere to go, she gained shelter, love appreciation in a house in Lower Ebury but as a HOUSEKEEPER... How will she cope up with the chores such as cleaning, laundry and especially cooking if she was never trained from birth to do any of it? and how the hell can she concentrate if there was a guy in the garden with glistening skin from sweat, a disheveled hair and a teasing grin??? hahahaha ...more This book is one of my favorites. It's simply hilarious. Smart, witty, and romantic. The switch from sharp lawyer to house maid is genius. In the plot there's also a hidden agenda that our heroine has to uncover and that keeps the reader on edge. This is Kinsella at her best. Funny Quote \"My eye flicks to the figure quoted in bold under Weekly Salary. It\u2019s slightly less than I charged per hour as a lawyer.\" I read Kinsella's \"Confessions of a Shopaholic\" last year and enjoyed it very much. Since then, I haven't found the time to read her sequels, but recently, I picked up \"The Undomestic Goddess\" from the library and started reading. Much to my surprise, I found her main characters to be quite similar; they're both smart women with flighty thoughts who are put into extraordinary circumstances and come out better than anyone could have imagined. Akin to Bridget Jones and all her wobbly bits. As ente I read Kinsella's \"Confessions of a Shopaholic\" last year and enjoyed it very much. Since then, I haven't found the time to read her sequels, but recently, I picked up \"The Undomestic Goddess\" from the library and started reading. Much to my surprise, I found her main characters to be quite similar; they're both smart women with flighty thoughts who are put into extraordinary circumstances and come out better than anyone could have imagined. Akin to Bridget Jones and all her wobbly bits. As entertaining as this book was, it bordered on the antagonizing that everything so conveniently fell in Samantha Sweeting's lap. She just happens to have a photographic memory, she just happens to be friends with a Lord and Lady, she just happens to find employment (and did ya ever wonder what happened to the real housekeeper who was supposed to show for the interview??), she just happens to learn how to cook in a couple weeks... that right there was the biggest leap for me! Anyway, this will probably make a good romantic comedy movie. I actually read it like a screenplay. If it is turned into a movie, I'd probably go see it with the right cast. I'm very curious who they'd pick for Nathaniel... he sounds yummy, but no one came to mind. I couldn't picture Samantha either. Bottomline, fun and brainfree. ...more I don't know, I guess I'm not much of a Sophie Kinsella fan. I've read a couple of her \"Shopaholic\" books as well as this one, and they just annoy me. Her characters are twits. Even in this one, where the main character is an intelligent, well-educated, about-to-become-partner Lawyer . . . she's still a twit. I highly doubt I will subject myself to any further twittery and shall skip her books in the future. True rating: 3.5 stars So lately, every book I pick up feels too heavy and serious and I just want a light-hearted laugh. So Haley recommended I read this book, which is exactly what I need. Although I had a few problems with this book, I enjoyed it immensely. The undomestic Goddess follows a 29 year old Lawyer named Samantha, who from the age of 12 was so focused on her career and going to the next level, she forgot how to live. Samantha is a workaholic, a perfectionist, so used to never making m True rating: 3.5 stars So lately, every book I pick up feels too heavy and serious and I just want a light-hearted laugh. So Haley recommended I read this book, which is exactly what I need. Although I had a few problems with this book, I enjoyed it immensely. The undomestic Goddess follows a 29 year old Lawyer named Samantha, who from the age of 12 was so focused on her career and going to the next level, she forgot how to live. Samantha is a workaholic, a perfectionist, so used to never making mistakes that when she does she takes the first train she sees without caring where it\u2019s heading, and ends up as a domestic worker. And from there the story unravels. This is the type of book you\u2019d throw a blind eye at all the flaws just for the sheer pleasure of reading it. I enjoyed the slight humour and characterization in this book. And although I found it a bit unrealistic that a 29 year-old living alone doesn\u2019t even know what\u2019s a vacuum cleaner, I still laughed when she was trying to adapt into her new job as a housekeeper. I have only read Sophie Kinsella\u2019s finding Audrey, which I loved. And hopefully, this isn\u2019t my last read by her. I\u2019d recommend this book to anyone wanting to read something light and sweet, or is in a reading slump. And although I felt it dragged a bit in the middle I couldn\u2019t put it down. ...more I was looking for some fluff, something with a sense of humor. This wasn't it. The book blurb makes it sound like fun. The cutesy-cover makes it look like fun. The tone of the writing make it sound like fun. I found no fun. I listened to 75 minutes of the 6.5 hour CD version of the book; during that time I didn't find a character that I was remotely interested in, nor did I ever crack a smile (even an inward one). Seriously, if you're supposed to be clever, funny, or even mildly witty, don't you I was looking for some fluff, something with a sense of humor. This wasn't it. The book blurb makes it sound like fun. The cutesy-cover makes it look like fun. The tone of the writing make it sound like fun. I found no fun. I listened to 75 minutes of the 6.5 hour CD version of the book; during that time I didn't find a character that I was remotely interested in, nor did I ever crack a smile (even an inward one). Seriously, if you're supposed to be clever, funny, or even mildly witty, don't you think you ought to put some of that stuff in the first 20% of the book? I'm sure someone out there thinks this writer's stuff is hilarious. Wow, I SO did not. ::yawn:: ...more Actual rating 4.75 What a great read. I really loved this one! No love triangles or weird romances - Nathaniel is a new book boyfriend. Loved the message in this book as well. 3.5 Stars :0) Not a laugh-out-loud type of funny novel for me, but this was surprisingly alot of fun... There were a couple plot points that were a bit out there for me but it didn't really bother me too much. Once the story started going and I got to know these characters more, I fell in love. A couple times I would look up from the novel and be surprised I was still sitting in the living-room and not at the Geiger's Inn. The pages fly by really fast but the story never suffers for it. Samantha's 3.5 Stars :0) Not a laugh-out-loud type of funny novel for me, but this was surprisingly alot of fun... There were a couple plot points that were a bit out there for me but it didn't really bother me too much. Once the story started going and I got to know these characters more, I fell in love. A couple times I would look up from the novel and be surprised I was still sitting in the living-room and not at the Geiger's Inn. The pages fly by really fast but the story never suffers for it. Samantha's mother... yeesh, talk about pressure. If that had been my mother, I would have fled the day I turned 18 and not looked back. I felt bad for Samantha in a way, growing up with that type of family. Well meaning but not close at all. She almost convinced herself I think that she was fine with it, but never quite succeeded. As for Samantha's freak out, her flight response would be probly be what my mind would have done, I don't blame her for wanting to get away. Trish/Eddie/Nathaniel/Iris... LOVED them! Trish was exasperating sometimes but she was endearing. Her 'meddling', to her, came from a good place... Eddie we didn't get to know as well, but it was fun to watch him and Trish interact. Nathaniel - <3! Book boyfriend! Nothing I didn't love about him :) I did appreciate that Miss Kinsella didn't go the route of when Samantha reveals who she is, with Nathaniel storming off and refusing to listen to her. Loved the fact he was understanding with Samantha. One character I was indifferent to but later on when his true colors came out, I wanted to kick him in the balls. Self-centered, arrogant prick! Another guy who seemed like a hard person, actually came to Samantha's rescue, so to speak. He got a few respect points in that situation. The ending I thought was perfect, not rushed at all like some of the same genre. It didn't wrap everything up in a neat bow but it left me with a smile on my face. Charming, sweet, humorous with some irritating moments (mostly due to certain characters I wanted to Gibbs!Smack)... a nice addition for the chick lit genre. Wouldn't mind seeing more of these two :) ...more This was the first Sophie Kinsella book I was really into! The last few weren't bad, but the protagonists drove me nuts they were so annoying! Samantha had me pulling my hair out in the beginning, but I grew to like her pretty quickly! At first I was so frustrated about the whole lie-about-everything situation, but then it became hilarious! I love the Geigers :D a stupid bunch but they're awesome and I love them! Nathaniel and his mom are amazing people! Towards the end, I honestly had several diff This was the first Sophie Kinsella book I was really into! The last few weren't bad, but the protagonists drove me nuts they were so annoying! Samantha had me pulling my hair out in the beginning, but I grew to like her pretty quickly! At first I was so frustrated about the whole lie-about-everything situation, but then it became hilarious! I love the Geigers :D a stupid bunch but they're awesome and I love them! Nathaniel and his mom are amazing people! Towards the end, I honestly had several different outcomes planned in my head. (view spoiler) [When Guy visited her trying to get her back, I was waiting for her to yell at him to get out of the kitchen. I didn't expect her to take up his offer! I was so happy that Nathaniel didn't create a drama and got over the fact that Samantha was a lawyer pretty quick! During the press conference, I was waiting for Samantha to rip Hilary's stupid statement to shreds in front of the press and make some dramatic declaration. But then she punched Guy and I was so happy! I wish she did it again! I hope she left a mark!! (hide spoiler) ] Great book! It also gives me hope, because I can't cook..... But I'm no where near as culinarily clueless as Samantha, so I think I can get somewhere ^_^ ...more \u201cMy life has changed, and I'm changing with it.\u201d Samantha Sweeting is a workaholic. She is one hell of an attorney. She works all the time. She never makes mistakes. She came from the family of attorneys and all of them are terrific except her brother who died from nervous breakdown. \u2302When was the last time she had a break ?? \u25acSince before grade 7. \u2302What is her 'one true wish' ?? \u25acTo become partner at Carter Spink( Law firm). \u2302How does she manages her tasks ? \u25acIn six minutes. 11:00\u201311:06 drafted con \u201cMy life has changed, and I'm changing with it.\u201d Samantha Sweeting is a workaholic. She is one hell of an attorney. She works all the time. She never makes mistakes. She came from the family of attorneys and all of them are terrific except her brother who died from nervous breakdown. \u2302When was the last time she had a break ?? \u25acSince before grade 7. \u2302What is her 'one true wish' ?? \u25acTo become partner at Carter Spink( Law firm). \u2302How does she manages her tasks ? \u25acIn six minutes. 11:00\u201311:06 drafted contract for Project A 11:06\u201311:12 amended documentation for Client B 11:12\u201311:18 consulted on point for Agreement C Her every minute is planned out. She is very close to achieve her dream. Yes, she is going to be a partner at Carter Spink. And then, BAAM!!!! She made a blunder. A mistake that cost her, her job. Her dreams are now shattered. Shocked and petrified, she board a train and went off. In the state of shock and dizziness she reached a very wealthy house in a beautiful town. There she was offered a job. A new job ??? PERFECT !!! BUT Her new job is quite different from the one before. She is not appointed as an attorney. In fact, she got a job as a housekeeper.Great! Better than nothing. But the only problem is that she know nothing about housekeeping. She had her own housekeeper for that purpose. When Samantha Sweeting attempted to do the best in her newly found job, what happened next was expected. AND And this, It is a good sweet novel with a touch of humor and romance. Totally a one-sitter novel. And contrary to other Sophie Kinsella books, there is an actual romance here which surprised me because Sophie Kinsella always seemed reluctant to write romance. Nathaniel is a sweet character. He is not a billionaire in fact, he is a gardener but he is caring and polite and above all he loved Samantha. As Samantha continues her life in a small town she realizes what was missing in her previous life; the mere essence of it. She grew attach with that small town, her house-keepers and the gardener, Nathaniel. Soon she had to make a permanent choice between the city-life and town-life. But what will she choose? Who knows! :D 3.5 stars ...more Unlike Sophie Kinsella's Shopaholic series, Undomestic Goddess features a much less ditzy woman front and centre in this very light yet original book. Although a bit dated- written in 2006- with its Blackberry devices for texting, computers for email and cell phones for calls only, the story is filled with the typical Kinsella contentious creatures as well as those truly most admirable who either trip up our heroine Arden or offer her safe haven. I needed a flight of fancy after reading a number Unlike Sophie Kinsella's Shopaholic series, Undomestic Goddess features a much less ditzy woman front and centre in this very light yet original book. Although a bit dated- written in 2006- with its Blackberry devices for texting, computers for email and cell phones for calls only, the story is filled with the typical Kinsella contentious creatures as well as those truly most admirable who either trip up our heroine Arden or offer her safe haven. I needed a flight of fancy after reading a number of more sombre books, one which could carry me along with the vaguest of attention yet still be enjoyable. Somehow I'd missed this cute little tale of the high powered London lawyer who makes a first error in her stellar career, which results in the devastation of her reputation and losing her esteemed place in a top ranking firm. In a daze, Arden hops on public transit only to become lost in a bucolic village and impulsively asks a resident for a glass of water and aspirin. Of course, this is the moment that the Shakespearian ploy of mistaken identity begins to cast it's delightful spell. After accepting the strong headache pills from the house owner Trish, Arden cavalierly interviews for the position of housekeeper which she didn't know about and would never have considered but for her terrible day. She impresses her probable clients with fabrications of Cordon Bleu cooking, expertise on management and cleaning a house, doing laundry and even ironing- none of which she knows anything about. The escapades which follow are great fun, lawyer life comes back to haunt her and the story finishes on a satisfying and very upbeat note. Lots of action, interaction, a bit of silliness and a whole bunch of nice made The Undomestic Goddess the right kind of friend for a day. ...more Know what I hate? Snobs. Know what I hate even more? Book snobs. The ones with Anna Karenina under their arms on the streets and a quote by Oscar Wilde on their yearbook who know Shakespeare's sonnets by heart. Not that there's anything wrong with any of those, but there is when a snob firmly believes there's nothing to look for in literature nowadays. Or when a snob believes a genre is deemed more worthy than the other. I decided to start my review this way because there are the people who do not Know what I hate? Snobs. Know what I hate even more? Book snobs. The ones with Anna Karenina under their arms on the streets and a quote by Oscar Wilde on their yearbook who know Shakespeare's sonnets by heart. Not that there's anything wrong with any of those, but there is when a snob firmly believes there's nothing to look for in literature nowadays. Or when a snob believes a genre is deemed more worthy than the other. I decided to start my review this way because there are the people who do not deem contemporary fiction as 'real literature' or 'worthy'. I love Sophie Kinsella. I read her because it is light, it brings my mood up and makes me feel absolutely joyful for the characters. And to enjoy literature which isn't a classic is nothing to be ashamed of. To read 'chick lit' (a term I have problems with based on sexism but nevertheless) is nothing to be ashamed of, either. SOPHIE KINSELLA IS HILARIOUS. This book just proves it, once again! A super stressed lawyer makes a mistake that makes her company lose millions so she hops on the first train she sees and arrives at an unknown destination. Feeling dizzy, Samantha rings a door to ask for a cup of water and ends out being mistaken for the new housekeeper. And shit happens. I loved this book. It is an absolute page turner and I cannot possibly wait to get my hands on a new book by her. Definitely recommend. ...more I'm being generous with my stars. I would really give this book more like 2 1/2 stars. I find the storyline hard to believe. I don't see a \"high powered\" lawyer taking a housekeeping job. One minute the character is a powerful well known lawyer, in the best law firm in the country, used to having control over others and the next she is curtseying to her new employers, cooking, cleaning and being dismissed after being given her new chores. It was too much to believe. Even though the author tried I'm being generous with my stars. I would really give this book more like 2 1/2 stars. I find the storyline hard to believe. I don't see a \"high powered\" lawyer taking a housekeeping job. One minute the character is a powerful well known lawyer, in the best law firm in the country, used to having control over others and the next she is curtseying to her new employers, cooking, cleaning and being dismissed after being given her new chores. It was too much to believe. Even though the author tried to make it believable, having Samantha (main character) rationalize and talk herself into the job, there is just no way a person with her education and experience could change so much and be ok with it. ...more I think \"Undomestic Goddess\" is my favorite of all Sophie Kinsella's books I've read so far. Although totally predictable, this book was a pleasure to read. The main reason I enjoyed this book so much is probably because I can totally relate to Samantha. She is a lawyer and workaholic. She thinks that she will be happy after reaching the next step on the career ladder and all her hard work and sacrifices will pay off. Only while working so hard towards her goal, she fails to enjoy her life. A se I think \"Undomestic Goddess\" is my favorite of all Sophie Kinsella's books I've read so far. Although totally predictable, this book was a pleasure to read. The main reason I enjoyed this book so much is probably because I can totally relate to Samantha. She is a lawyer and workaholic. She thinks that she will be happy after reaching the next step on the career ladder and all her hard work and sacrifices will pay off. Only while working so hard towards her goal, she fails to enjoy her life. A series of events finally forces her to stop and take a long hard look at her life and evaluate what is really important. Of course, predictably there is romance and happily ever after, but aside from that I think this book has a great life message. ...more Samantha Sweeting is a stressed out workaholic attorney at the prestigious law firm of Carter Spink, she is desperately trying to become the firm\u2019s youngest partner. In the blink of the eye it all changes . Samantha\u2019s work is normally flawless, but one costly mistake spells career suicide. In utter shock Samantha flees her office, wandering the streets until she ends up on a train that leaves her in the middle of nowhere. Not really sure where she is Samantha spots a house, intending to ask for di Samantha Sweeting is a stressed out workaholic attorney at the prestigious law firm of Carter Spink, she is desperately trying to become the firm\u2019s youngest partner. In the blink of the eye it all changes . Samantha\u2019s work is normally flawless, but one costly mistake spells career suicide. In utter shock Samantha flees her office, wandering the streets until she ends up on a train that leaves her in the middle of nowhere. Not really sure where she is Samantha spots a house, intending to ask for directions and a few aspirin. The owners of the home mistake her for a interviewee and offer her a job as their housekeeper. I have read some of the books in the Shopaholic series and I became a fan of Ms.Kinsella, I decided to seek out some of her work and I was very intrigued by this book. I found Samantha to be very real, she was a young successful professional who has never turned on a stove or knows where to put the bag in her vacuum. With that being said I was wondering how Samantha was going to possibly be a housekeeper? In a series of funny mishaps, Samantha gets lessons and starts to realize there is more to life then high powered stress. I really did enjoy this book and I would recommend this to someone looking for some light-hearted chick-lit. ...more Now I see what all the fuss is about over Sophie Kinsella. Her books are unpredictable, frothy fun with great themes and hilarious moments thrown in the mix. I really enjoyed this one, and I can't wait to read more books by this lovely author. This is my first book by Sophie Kinsella and made me read more and more of her books. The plot was interesting and some sort of funny. The characters were good, but could have been better. So Ok it has its moments, and even funny ones. And yes, as you can expect, it is an easy read (too easy may be)..But I didn't like it as much as I was expecting. I am no expert in Kinsella's books, but if this one is really her best, I'd rather stay out of them. The plot? one workoholic attorney loses her job and finds herself working as a domestic help, of course she doesn't know much of anything and of course that leads to funny situations. I actually liked the first part, finds the -boss- exc So Ok it has its moments, and even funny ones. And yes, as you can expect, it is an easy read (too easy may be)..But I didn't like it as much as I was expecting. I am no expert in Kinsella's books, but if this one is really her best, I'd rather stay out of them. The plot? one workoholic attorney loses her job and finds herself working as a domestic help, of course she doesn't know much of anything and of course that leads to funny situations. I actually liked the first part, finds the -boss- excentric couple endearing and even laughed at some points. But then it gets a bit tiresome, the quick learning, the big love next door, the constant predictability and the \"unbelievableness\" of it all. I mean come on, life isn't that easy, people don't take strangers in without a thought, no one can learn to cook in 2 days, gardeners aren't (most of them) sexy and rich, and worse than all, nobody cares about contract attornies..not lawyers, not clients, and certainly not people magazines. All in all, far from condemning the book, I'd even recommend it as an easy, no-thinking, funny read. Just adjust your expectations, and prepare yourself for some clich\u00e9s. ...more This was so fun!I really loved this book,it was funny yet serious,it was positive yet kind of sad because of what Sam had to go through.The characters are really good-Sam is so charming and Nat...uh. The supporting characters are so funny,I love Sam's best friend,haha.Love how she (view spoiler) [lied about Sam's birthday just so Sam can have a proper party.\u2665 (hide spoiler) ] .The story is very interesting and captivating.I just couldn't wait to find out what will Sam decide and how will everyone re This was so fun!I really loved this book,it was funny yet serious,it was positive yet kind of sad because of what Sam had to go through.The characters are really good-Sam is so charming and Nat...uh. The supporting characters are so funny,I love Sam's best friend,haha.Love how she (view spoiler) [lied about Sam's birthday just so Sam can have a proper party.\u2665 (hide spoiler) ] .The story is very interesting and captivating.I just couldn't wait to find out what will Sam decide and how will everyone react when they find out about her past.Love the twist at the ending! Overall,a really god and fun chick-lit. Favourite quotes: \u201c My life has changed, and I'm changing with it .\u201d \u201c Our whole family thrives under pressure . It's like our family motto or something. Apart from my brother Peter, of course. He had a nervous break down . But the rest of us.\u201d [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more This book!! HILARIOUS! it's a secret but that was my first Kinsella book and l loved it!! the thing is... it's not a plain funny kinda chick lit. no. that's the thing l loved about it.. Samantha a successfull workaholic business lawyer, in her big day (aka her promotion day) make a big stupid mistake, so in chock take the train with no idea where to go and find her self knocking a strangers door for a glass of water, But she wakes up as a domestic! funny thing is that samantha can't even boil an egg This book!! HILARIOUS! it's a secret but that was my first Kinsella book and l loved it!! the thing is... it's not a plain funny kinda chick lit. no. that's the thing l loved about it.. Samantha a successfull workaholic business lawyer, in her big day (aka her promotion day) make a big stupid mistake, so in chock take the train with no idea where to go and find her self knocking a strangers door for a glass of water, But she wakes up as a domestic! funny thing is that samantha can't even boil an egg! yeah let you jump into it :) ...more Me gust\u00f3 mucho. Es una novela que tiene un argumento sencillo, muy estilo comedia rom\u00e1ntica americana, con situaciones de enredos que generan escenas surrealistas y muy divertidas. Si bien no es lo principal de la novela, hay un romance bonito y simp\u00e1tico. Cada personaje aporta un encanto particular a la historia. Y est\u00e1 tan bien contada que se hace sumamente adictiva. A light, screwball comedy of a novel that's alot of fun to read. It reminded me a bit of classic Hollywood films like Christmas in Connecticut and If You Could Only Cook. Samantha is a very engaging character, and you really want things to work out well for her. A quick, entertaining read.", "Title": "The Undomestic Goddess"},
