{"Comments": "so, when i heard kate atkinson had a new book i thought \"yayyy!!\" and then when i found out it was another jackson brodie novel i said \"boooo!!\" i thought the first one was great, but the second was a lot weaker. there's a reason i tend not to read genre fiction like sci-fi and mystery - because i just don't want to commit to ten books about the same world. i would rather read one book that is self-contained and never visit the characters again.(and yes i know - Donald Harington is exempt from t so, when i heard kate atkinson had a new book i thought \"yayyy!!\" and then when i found out it was another jackson brodie novel i said \"boooo!!\" i thought the first one was great, but the second was a lot weaker. there's a reason i tend not to read genre fiction like sci-fi and mystery - because i just don't want to commit to ten books about the same world. i would rather read one book that is self-contained and never visit the characters again.(and yes i know - Donald Harington is exempt from this preference because no one can write like him) that being said - i loved this book. it's true that there seem to be a lot of characters in atkinson's books who have all had one or more family members murdered in horrible ways,<---M> which seems like an unlikely coincidence</---M>, path-crossing-wise, but she really can do it all - write a convincing multi-plot mystery novel with exceptionally interesting and flawed characters, as well as a pretty incisive psychological study of these people. so - jackson brodie redeemed, which is good i suppose, since it doesn't seem like this will be the end of this character. i'm in it for the long haul now. ...more This book is grim, violent, sad (dead kids, dead moms, dead dogs), and also hilarious and uplifting (passionate cops, a ferociously maternal doctor, and a heroic dog who makes it all the way through -- sorry if that's a spoiler, but I would have wanted to know.) The character of 16-year-old Reggie should be given a special literary prize for Best Plucky Orphan Since Oliver Twist. Deeply satisfying and I can't wait for the next one. Here is a book which one reads paradoxically wishing it never ended- because it is so good- yet one races to finish- being compelled to- without skipping a word. My heart was aching for the main characters to come through and survive; for the good to prevail; for some things to go right. This was so suspenseful, more so than anything I have read lately. Never thought Loeb's green classics, which I can see sitting pretty on a shelf, would be referenced in a suspense novel. It is a part of the pleas Here is a book which one reads paradoxically wishing it never ended- because it is so good- yet one races to finish- being compelled to- without skipping a word. My heart was aching for the main characters to come through and survive; for the good to prevail; for some things to go right. This was so suspenseful, more so than anything I have read lately. Never thought Loeb's green classics, which I can see sitting pretty on a shelf, would be referenced in a suspense novel. It is a part of the pleasure of reading this book that the hard-scrabble main characters are smart and well read; their thoughts have a cultural reference and they are not stick figures. Rather they are mordantly witty, interesting and good people, in spite of the burdens they carry. Implicitly the author, <---A>Kate Atkinson</---A> is always thinking, asking hard questions, and giving unconventional answers.<---F> Very good company indeed</---F>. The plot is intricate and cleverly spun and its great fun to see how the strands are woven together. This is an excellent book. ...more Kate Atkinson returns to form in the third book in her Jackson Brodie series. With her usual mix of strong mystery plot elements and finely drawn relationships, \"When Will There Be Good News\" fairly hums along, and it works even better in this case because Jackson Brodie, the former cop turned private eye turned rich pensioner, is not actually the centerpiece of this novel. If there is a hero and fulcrum of this book, it is the wonderful new character of Reggie Chase, a 16-year-old who looks as t Kate Atkinson returns to form in the third book in her Jackson Brodie series. With her usual mix of strong mystery plot elements and finely drawn relationships, \"When Will There Be Good News\" fairly hums along, and it works even better in this case because Jackson Brodie, the former cop turned private eye turned rich pensioner, is not actually the centerpiece of this novel. If there is a hero and fulcrum of this book, it is the wonderful new character of Reggie Chase, a 16-year-old who looks as though she's 13 and sounds as though she's 40. In fact, the only reason I didn't give this five stars is that Reggie almost seems too precocious at times, which didn't make me enjoy her any the less. Reggie has lost her mother in an accident, her brother is a juvenile delinquent fast becoming a hardened criminal, and she is now fending for herself, spending much of her time with her new mother figure, Dr. Joanna Hunter, who has hired Reggie as a mother's helper for her new baby. Dr. Hunter has a deep secret of her own, one that Reggie doesn't learn until near the end of the book, but one that shapes the young doctor's actions in ways that will forever alter the lives of all the book's characters. Throw into the mix one of Jackson Brodie's past flames, detective Louise Monroe, and Jackson's new wife, about whom he really knows very little, and the doctor's husband's problems with the underworld, and a bizarre train crash, and you have a snorter of a novel: Fast paced, well told, and lifted into a delightful place by young Reggie. As Reggie herself might say, if you asked her whether this was worth reading: \"Och, yes: Sweartogod.\" ...more Oh, stab me in the heart some more, Kate. Atkinson\u2019s Jackson Brodie novels (the trilogy that begins with Case Histories ) just get more and more depressing. This latest is simply brutal . And yet\u2026I loved reading it, in spite of how bleak it is, in spite of the fact that the plot relies on some rather ridiculous Dickensian coincidences, in spite of Atkinson\u2019s apparent hatred of semi-colons and love of comma splices. I\u2019m not sure what it is, exactly, but I just love the way Atkinson\u2019s characters le Oh, stab me in the heart some more, Kate. Atkinson\u2019s Jackson Brodie novels (the trilogy that begins with Case Histories ) just get more and more depressing. This latest is simply brutal . And yet\u2026I loved reading it, in spite of how bleak it is, in spite of the fact that the plot relies on some rather ridiculous Dickensian coincidences, in spite of Atkinson\u2019s apparent hatred of semi-colons and love of comma splices. I\u2019m not sure what it is, exactly, but I just love the way Atkinson\u2019s characters leap off the page, the way their voices crackle and spark and echo in my head. I love the way she writes. She remains one of those authors who can in effect do no wrong: I will read anything she puts to paper. (Got old grocery lists? Send \u2019em to me!) But, uh\u2026try to write something a little lighter next time, Kate, okay? For my sake? ...more By some celestial alignment and confluence of book lists, I read two Kate Atkinson books in a row - Behind the Scenes at the Museum , which I've already reviewed and very much enjoyed, and this one. I don't like this one nearly as much. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook My enjoyment of Kate Atkinson's Jackson Brodie novels increases with each book. You only have to look at my ratings: I gave the first one three stars, the second one four stars and now I find I can't not give this third volume five out of five. This book begins with a horrific multiple murder and things go downhill from there. I kid, I kid... After the grisly opening, we jump forward thirty years to present day to see what the sole survivor of the initiating incident's life looks like now. While My enjoyment of Kate Atkinson's Jackson Brodie novels increases with each book. You only have to look at my ratings: I gave the first one three stars, the second one four stars and now I find I can't not give this third volume five out of five. This book begins with a horrific multiple murder and things go downhill from there. I kid, I kid... After the grisly opening, we jump forward thirty years to present day to see what the sole survivor of the initiating incident's life looks like now. While she has outwardly got her life together (far more than I have in fact) the news that the murderer she escaped three decades ago is being released from prison, having served his 'life' sentence, is sure to put the cat among even the most robust pigeons. Atkinson's writing has got such a wonderful rhythm to it (it verges on poetry in places) that it's almost hypnotic. One must resist the temptation to drift off, though, as this book is definitely one which rewards careful reading. All the plot threads are resolved by the end of the book, some for the better, some not so much, but if you're not paying attention you might not realise it. One of the themes of the book is the nature of our existence and what role coincidence and/or fate plays. Atkinson clearly delights in playing with the inter-connectedness of all things and obviously wants the reader to ponder how these things differ in fiction and 'real life'. The characters in this novel live and breathe and squirm their way into your head. I really cared what happened to these people over the course of the story and there are a couple of new characters in this book that I'm really hoping will turn up in the next one. I found myself genuinely scared for them in places and mourned with them in others. I also laughed with them at times because, while these books aren't comedies (except perhaps in the Shakespearian sense), nobody could deny that the author has a wry sense of humour that permeates her work. All in all, I'm now overjoyed I persevered with this series, which is not often the case when the first book is only a three star read. I'm very much looking forward to reading the fourth book in the series. ...more The whole time I was reading this book, I kept waiting for something to actually happen and make sense. There were so many characters and it took almost til the end of the book before they came together. Then she would have the characters make reference to so many different people and I could never remember who those people were or what role they had in the story (most of them didn't have a roll at all) There were way too many useless words in the book. The author had every single character conti The whole time I was reading this book, I kept waiting for something to actually happen and make sense. There were so many characters and it took almost til the end of the book before they came together. Then she would have the characters make reference to so many different people and I could never remember who those people were or what role they had in the story (most of them didn't have a roll at all) There were way too many useless words in the book. The author had every single character continuously quote old nursery rhymes, both in their head and out loud to people. It got very annoying. The only reason why I kept reading the book is because I didn't have anything else to read at the time, and I kept thinking that it had to get better. ...more While walking home one day, six-year-old Joanna Mason's family is attacked and killed by a man wielding a butcher knife. Joanna escapes by fleeing into a cornfield and hiding. She's eventually found and the killer is caught and sent to jail. Now before you get upset with me for revealing too much, let me just say that all of what I described above happens in the first twenty or so pages of Kate Atkinson's latest novel \"<+++>When Will There Be Good News?</+++>\" The death of Joanna's family is the catalyst fo While walking home one day, six-year-old Joanna Mason's family is attacked and killed by a man wielding a butcher knife. Joanna escapes by fleeing into a cornfield and hiding. She's eventually found and the killer is caught and sent to jail. Now before you get upset with me for revealing too much, let me just say that all of what I described above happens in the first twenty or so pages of Kate Atkinson's latest novel \"<+++>When Will There Be Good News?</+++>\" The death of Joanna's family is the catalyst for everything that happens for the rest of the story and the impact is felt on every single character we meet over the course of this story. As usual, Atkinson's novel is one that defies easy description. It's one part a mystery, one part character study and one part suspense thriller. The story starts out on a deceptively slow note, allowing readers to get to know the various players in the events to come and slowly building to a train wreck (literally and figuratively) of a turning point that has a direct impact on each of the characters. Atkinson brings back Jackson Brodie, the private detective who featured in her previous novels \"Case Histories\" and \"One Good Turn\" as well as several other familiar faces. As I read this story, comparions to Elizabeth George kept creeping up on me. (And that's a good thing as George is one of my favorite authors). Atkinson has a storytelling style that highlights characters, but continues to build the story with each page. She's subtle, working in details to the storyline naturally and rewarding readers when a payoff comes several pages later. Watching the story unfold, building up momentum until we finally see the bigger picture is fascinating. Several storylines cross over and we get to see events from several points of view. The various elements will keep you guessing, keep you curious and keep the pages turning. I consumed this book eagerly, anxious to find out what happens next. It's one of those where once the final page is turned, you'll walk away satisfied but wishing there was more to savor. ...more \u201cA coincidence is just an explanation waiting to happen\u201d Another great installment to this unique crime series. Honestly, how she puts together a story is absolutely stunning and refreshing. You get so much character depth from her books than in any other crime novel I have read (Apart from The Millennium Trilogy) \u201cJust because something bad had happened to her doesn't mean it won't happen again.\u201d In this installment we follow Jackson Brodie as he is yet shoved into another mystery that he w \u201cA coincidence is just an explanation waiting to happen\u201d Another great installment to this unique crime series. Honestly, how she puts together a story is absolutely stunning and refreshing. You get so much character depth from her books than in any other crime novel I have read (Apart from The Millennium Trilogy) \u201cJust because something bad had happened to her doesn't mean it won't happen again.\u201d In this installment we follow Jackson Brodie as he is yet shoved into another mystery that he wasn\u2019t interested in and we spiral round as we connect the story as well as finding out the Who? What? Where? Why? ... The way she manages to wove her story arc and get you into the characters head and also keep you thinking about the mystery is perplexing. I loved her writing style, it just added flesh to the story and I can\u2019t wait for the next book :) This the 3rd book in a crime series I would advice to start from book one, trust me you will get a lot out of it Review for book 2 ...more I often have problems with crime fiction series. I love the idea of returning to an interesting world in the company of a well-loved character, but often the expectation of enjoyment engendered by the previous books in a series doesn't continue to be met. Well, with this series it's a matter of so far, so good. In fact, maybe it's so far, so much better. Admittedly, this is only Atkinson's third novel to feature Jackson Brodie, but it is probably my favourite to date. This is not traditional cri I often have problems with crime fiction series. I love the idea of returning to an interesting world in the company of a well-loved character, but often the expectation of enjoyment engendered by the previous books in a series doesn't continue to be met. Well, with this series it's a matter of so far, so good. In fact, maybe it's so far, so much better. Admittedly, this is only Atkinson's third novel to feature Jackson Brodie, but it is probably my favourite to date. This is not traditional crime fiction. The action does not always focus on Jackson Brodie and he doesn't necessarily resolve all of the issues. In this novel, he shares the action with Reggie (a smart, resourceful teenager) and Joanna (the survivor of horrific childhood events). As with the earlier novels in the series, Atkinson moves the narrative along using shifting perspectives and overlapping time frames. The plot relies heavily on random connections and the layering of coincidences. In the hands of a less skilled writer, this could lead to some heavy eye-rolling. However, in my view, Atkinson makes it work. The sense of life being a puzzle, where the different pieces appear unconnected but are all required to complete the picture is a theme of Atkinson's writing; it's kind of like a literary six degrees of separation game. The fact the Atkinson writes clear, elegant prose and realistic (and often very witty) dialogue also contributes to the quality of the work. Atkinson's style will not appeal to everyone. A reader whose taste runs to traditional police procedural style crime fiction may not like her books at all. A reader who struggles with random coincidences being an essential part of the narrative may dismiss the plot as completely implausible - which it is, on any close (or even not so close) analysis. But Atkinson's style appeals to me a lot. I like that even her most appealing characters are flawed. I like that she does not tie up everything in a neat bundle, but leaves some things unexplained. That can be unsettling in crime fiction, but it's the way it is in life. It's going to take me a while to tire of this series. In fact, there's every chance I won't tire of Jackson Brodie and his world for as long as Atkinson chooses to keep creating it. I'm looking forward to reading the next book in the series, Started Early, Took My Dog . This was a most enjoyable buddy read with my friends Jemidar and Anna. ...more Kate Atkinson was, for me, a slowly acquired taste. I'd read 'Case Histories' and 'One Good Turn' and, while I found much to admire in each book, I ended up keeping my distance, put off by the violent quirkiness of her plots and characters. In fact, I remember so little about her first book, the 1995 Whitbread Book of the Year,'Behind the Scenes at the Museum,' that I must have dropped it after the first few pages. 'When Will There Be Good News', her most recent book, made me a fan. There's plent Kate Atkinson was, for me, a slowly acquired taste. I'd read 'Case Histories' and 'One Good Turn' and, while I found much to admire in each book, I ended up keeping my distance, put off by the violent quirkiness of her plots and characters. In fact, I remember so little about her first book, the 1995 Whitbread Book of the Year,'Behind the Scenes at the Museum,' that I must have dropped it after the first few pages. 'When Will There Be Good News', her most recent book, made me a fan. There's plenty that's quirky and violent here, of course, but there are characters I grew very fond of and whose fates really mattered to me. Reggie Chase, 16 year old mother's helper and bright, funny, conscientious school leaver, is one such character, and her employer, generous and accomplished Dr. Joanna Hunter, survivor of an unspeakably sad childhood, is another. Add Jackson Brodie, ex-policeman, permanently hapless hero of Atkinson's earlier novels and Louise Monroe, Deputy Chief Inspector, Brodie's foil and perennial crush, and, bingo, you've got redemption and balance for all that bloodshed and depravity. I'm now such an admirer of Atkinson that I'm going back to read/reread her first novel and I'm going to order her 'Human Croquet,' too. Converts are the staunchest believers. ...more This is the third in the Jackson Brodie series, and is probably my favourite so far. I adore Jackson. As ever, he\u2019s a magnet for trouble, both personally and professionally; it\u2019s these stumbles, and how he deals with them, which make him so readable, so lovable. He shares this book with would-be lover DCI Louise, teenage girl Reggie, whose determination in adversity is adorable, and tragic childhood survivor Joanna. They, and all their issues and secrets, are brought together to make a thrilling This is the third in the Jackson Brodie series, and is probably my favourite so far. I adore Jackson. As ever, he\u2019s a magnet for trouble, both personally and professionally; it\u2019s these stumbles, and how he deals with them, which make him so readable, so lovable. He shares this book with would-be lover DCI Louise, teenage girl Reggie, whose determination in adversity is adorable, and tragic childhood survivor Joanna. They, and all their issues and secrets, are brought together to make a thrilling and poignant mystery/crime story. I love Kate Atkinson\u2019s style. Her characters, main or secondary, are always so well written and believable; the right blend of emotions, flaws and wit. Her storylines are carefully woven, and although they can rely on a string of often crazy coincidences ('coincidences are explanations waiting to happen,' as Jackson would say), they are so well plotted that they fit together perfectly. It\u2019s her wonderfully fleshed-out characters, though, that drive her books, making you feel her stories, rather than just read them. This was a buddy read with my Aussie friends Jemidar and Kim; thanks girls :-) ...more The first few Atkinson books I read I was kind of \"meh\" about. I didn't really love them, but I liked her writing enough to keep trying. Then she published the first two Jackson Brodie books and I enjoyed them enormously. And then, although I kept adding all her new books to my TBR list, somehow none of them ever made it to the top. Don't be like me. Put Atkinson at the top of your list. [I've got A God in Ruins standing by as soon as I finish this other book, and the others are at the top of th The first few Atkinson books I read I was kind of \"meh\" about. I didn't really love them, but I liked her writing enough to keep trying. Then she published the first two Jackson Brodie books and I enjoyed them enormously. And then, although I kept adding all her new books to my TBR list, somehow none of them ever made it to the top. Don't be like me. Put Atkinson at the top of your list. [I've got A God in Ruins standing by as soon as I finish this other book, and the others are at the top of the queue]. The Brodie books in particular hit that sweet spot of examining the after effects of a crime like Barbara Vine, or Laura Lippman, while also being a compelling read, an entertaining mystery, and a Literary Novel. Good stuff. Library copy ...more I'm reading Kate Atkinson's novels as they cross my path. This one was a new genre, a detective and mystery story that was engrossing. I had a hard time keeping track of the dozen characters with similar backgrounds, but all equally interesting ones who show us what it means to have strength and survive the past in a flawed world. This book made me laugh and cry more than once, so it gets my vote. I felt the vividness of Atkinson's talent with the first in the series, Case Histories, but that one felt a bit contrived and manipulative to me. This one, the third, maybe does both, but it was a much more fun ride because of the emotional engagement it achieved for me. It plucks the heart strings with its 16 year-old heroine Reggie, whose love for the missing Dr. Hunter and the baby she serves as nanny moves her to many brave This book made me laugh and cry more than once, so it gets my vote. I felt the vividness of Atkinson's talent with the first in the series, Case Histories, but that one felt a bit contrived and manipulative to me. This one, the third, maybe does both, but it was a much more fun ride because of the emotional engagement it achieved for me. It plucks the heart strings with its 16 year-old heroine Reggie, whose love for the missing Dr. Hunter and the baby she serves as nanny moves her to many brave actions. The some-time detective Jackson Brodie and the Scottish Chief Inspector Louise Monroe are dragged into the case through Reggie's persistence, and their unrequited affection for each other makes a warm underground river of life against the cold forces of death. Atkinson is a master at rendering the stream of consciousness and emotional spheres of four characters who all orbit around the case and eventually converge. I was very engaged by the liveliness of these minds embedded in mundane activities and frequent tapping cultural reservoirs such as songs and literature. All have experienced past tragedies in the form violent deaths in their family in childhood Though persistently light and ironic in tone, the tale makes a realistic case for good people (and a good dog) making something real and strong in this perilous life. ...more WHEN WILL THERE BE GOOD NEWS? (Pol Proc-Jackson Brodie-England-Cont) \u2013 Ex Atkinson, Kate \u2013 3rd in Jackson Brodie series Doubleday, 2008, UK Hardcover \u2013 ISBN: 9780385608015 First Sentence: The heat rising up from the tarmac seemed to get trapped between the thick hedges that towered above their heads like battlements. Dr. Joanna Hunter (nee\u2019 Mason) is the only survivor of an attack that killed her mother, sister and brother. Now, thirty years later, the man responsible has been released from prison. WHEN WILL THERE BE GOOD NEWS? (Pol Proc-Jackson Brodie-England-Cont) \u2013 Ex Atkinson, Kate \u2013 3rd in Jackson Brodie series Doubleday, 2008, UK Hardcover \u2013 ISBN: 9780385608015 First Sentence: The heat rising up from the tarmac seemed to get trapped between the thick hedges that towered above their heads like battlements. Dr. Joanna Hunter (nee\u2019 Mason) is the only survivor of an attack that killed her mother, sister and brother. Now, thirty years later, the man responsible has been released from prison. Ex-detective Jackson Brodie, the one to find young Joanna after the attack, is traveling by train when it derails. Sixteen-year-old Reggie, although she looks to be only 12 but has an old soul, is a mother\u2019s help for Joanna\u2019s baby, Gabriel, and is being tutored by Ms. MacDonald in exchange for errands. Ms. MacDonald\u2019s property backs onto a railway line. The lives of these four people intersect in a completely unexpected manner. What an unusual and wonderful book! The plot is not always easy to follow, nor is it always easy to keep the characters straight, but it has some of the best dialogue I\u2019ve ever read and philosophical insights that made me pause. It had a captivating beginning where I was drawn into the sights, smells and sounds only to be followed by the terror and regret of the scene. The main characters were wonderful and fully-developed through the course of the story. Reggie\u2014\u201c\u2026Reggie\u2019s life was like the Ilian plain, littered with the dead.\u201d--, in particular, is an absolute marvel and I really thought of this as her story to the point where I didn\u2019t want it to end and I do want to know what happens to her in the future. She became just that real. The author provides an excellent sense of place, but it is absolutely the characters that drive this story. There are a lot of coincidences\u2014\u201cA coincidence is just an explanation waiting to happen.\u201d\u2014but they play into the story and life is full of coincidences. This book is not for everyone; some might find the style confusing or slow. On one hand, I would not want to be a character in this story as there are more dead people surrounding the characters than I believe I\u2019ve ever read. On the other there were times I laughed out loud, mainly due to the author\u2019s wonderful dialogue. It\u2019s of the level where you want to read it aloud to others. I do wish I had learned Latin, but the internet is very useful. I\u2019ve not read the previous two books in this series and felt no lack of them for knowing the characters or plot in this book, but I certainly do want to go back and read them for the pure joy of indulging in Ms. Atkinson\u2019s writing. ...more Joanna Mason, a six-year-old girl, was the only person to escape when a madman killed her mother, sister and baby brother. Thirty years later, Joanna is a successful doctor with a baby of her own when the madman is released from prison. Regina Chase is Joanna's precocious sixteen-year-old mother's assistant; Neil Hunter, Joanna's husband, is an entrepreneur with big troubles. Police detective Louise Monroe, recently married herself, is attempting to protect a woman and her children from an abusi Joanna Mason, a six-year-old girl, was the only person to escape when a madman killed her mother, sister and baby brother. Thirty years later, Joanna is a successful doctor with a baby of her own when the madman is released from prison. Regina Chase is Joanna's precocious sixteen-year-old mother's assistant; Neil Hunter, Joanna's husband, is an entrepreneur with big troubles. Police detective Louise Monroe, recently married herself, is attempting to protect a woman and her children from an abusive husband and is also participating in the investigation into a suspicious fire at one of Neil Hunter's properties. Ex-cop and P.I. Jackson Brodie who has always been enamored of Louise, has family difficulties of his own. All of their lives intersect over a four-day period containing a number of near-cataclysmic events. Atkinson weaves the detailed story lines together in a very interesting book which is really more of a character study than it is a crime novel. All of these characters are interesting and their stories combine in a great climax. This is a very good read, but one should not be expecting to find here a very traditional crime novel. ...more When Will There Be Good News? won the Richard & Judy Best Read at the British Book Awards. It's been very favourably reviewed in The Guardian, the Sunday Times and the Telegraph, and by innumerable Goodreads members. I find this bewildering. I very much enjoyed Behind The Scenes At The Museum, which won the Whitbread First Novel award but that was literary fiction whereas this is crime. I must admit, I don't generally read crime, though I have enjoyed John Banville's forays into the genre. S When Will There Be Good News? won the Richard & Judy Best Read at the British Book Awards. It's been very favourably reviewed in The Guardian, the Sunday Times and the Telegraph, and by innumerable Goodreads members. I find this bewildering. I very much enjoyed Behind The Scenes At The Museum, which won the Whitbread First Novel award but that was literary fiction whereas this is crime. I must admit, I don't generally read crime, though I have enjoyed John Banville's forays into the genre. So I thought there was a chance I might be seduced by Kate Atkinson's literary reinvention. But I was wrong. Perhaps I just don't understand the genre but in my opinion this novel is over-plotted and relies too heavily on coincidence. In addition, there are too many characters, many of whom are just names, and too many of them share a fondness for quoting poetry. I just didn't care enough about any of them to make this book a rewarding read. I suspect it might have made more sense if I'd read some of the earlier books in the series. ...more This was such a good book. I didn't realize that it was the third book for the character Jackson Brodie, but it didn't matter. The first chapter involved the murder of a mother and two of her children. There was nothing graphic in it, thank God. The rest of book took place 30 years after the murders and right before the murderer was about to be released from prison. At first, it seemed as if all of the characters were unrelated. But as the story went on, the different threads all came together. This was such a good book. I didn't realize that it was the third book for the character Jackson Brodie, but it didn't matter. The first chapter involved the murder of a mother and two of her children. There was nothing graphic in it, thank God. The rest of book took place 30 years after the murders and right before the murderer was about to be released from prison. At first, it seemed as if all of the characters were unrelated. But as the story went on, the different threads all came together. My favorite character was the orphan who worked as a nanny for the lone survivor of the murders in the first chapter. The characters seemed very realistic in that they had flawed lives and in some cases very flawed characters. I highly recommend this one. ...more I believe that the BBC made a show of Brodie, and followed the book 100%. It was amazing that they did everything exactly as in the book. Normally it would deviate somewhat. It was a good book for putting between Robert Wilson and Anne Holt. First off, I have to say that i listened to this on audio. I was a little bit confused at the beginning of the story. There were so many names being thrown out and various different plots being intertwined, that I had some trouble following. I found myself changing back to radio in the beginning and contemplating giving up. I am so glad that I didn't. I would give this awesome story, with funny, love-able characters, 4 stars. Being that I listened to the audiobook, narrated by Steven Crossley, I First off, I have to say that i listened to this on audio. I was a little bit confused at the beginning of the story. There were so many names being thrown out and various different plots being intertwined, that I had some trouble following. I found myself changing back to radio in the beginning and contemplating giving up. I am so glad that I didn't. I would give this awesome story, with funny, love-able characters, 4 stars. Being that I listened to the audiobook, narrated by Steven Crossley, I upgraded the book to 5 stars. Credit is due to Kate Atkinson for creating these hilarious characters and this original story, but I must also give tremendous credit to Steven Crossley for bringing these characters alive and making me laugh out loud. I love reading and listening to audiobooks and appreciate all of the talent out there. There are rare occasions where I just can't stop thinking about a book and this fueled my decision to upgrade my rating. I keep hearing Reggie's voice, curtesy of Mr. Crossley, saying 'TOTALLY'. I have looked him up and plan to listen to as many audiobooks as I can. AND, I got the next book in this series in audio, even though it has a different narrator. As I was listening to this audiobook, I was reading the book, I let you go by Clare Mackintosh. Today, I found out that Mr. Crossley narrated that book as well and I want to kick myself for not waiting!! There is something about listening to a GREAT British novel read by a GREAT British narrator that just doesn't compare to reading it. I try to 'read' books in a British accent and fail miserably. HIGHLY recommended in audio. ...more When Will There Be Good News? is the third book in the Jackson Brodie series by popular British author, Kate Atkinson. Some two years after the events of One Good Turn, Jackson Brodie is intent on discovering the paternity of Julia Land\u2019s son, Nathan, in a small town in the Yorkshire Dales. At the same time, in Edinburgh, Detective Chief Inspector Louise Monroe tries to protect a small family from their threatening father, but is distracted by young Reggie Chase, who is convinced that the disapp When Will There Be Good News? is the third book in the Jackson Brodie series by popular British author, Kate Atkinson. Some two years after the events of One Good Turn, Jackson Brodie is intent on discovering the paternity of Julia Land\u2019s son, Nathan, in a small town in the Yorkshire Dales. At the same time, in Edinburgh, Detective Chief Inspector Louise Monroe tries to protect a small family from their threatening father, but is distracted by young Reggie Chase, who is convinced that the disappearance of her employer and son is not as innocent as it is claimed to be. A moment of inattention finds Jackson travelling to Edinburgh and much more deeply involved than he ever intended. This instalment has a plot with quite a few twists and some surprises that will leave the reader gasping or laughing out loud. Once again, Atkinson carefully builds up her characters until the reader is invested in them and really cares about their fate. As well as multiple murders, there are stolen IDs, comprehensively vandalised flats, faithful dogs, a severed artery, kidnapping, amnesia (real and feigned) and a train derailment as the action moves from Devon to Edinburgh to Yorkshire and back. There are some marvellous poetic quotes, nursery rhymes and wordplay, and the inner monologues of the main characters are priceless: \u201cShe was wearing an aggressive three-piece outfit that was probably very expensive but had the kind of pattern you would get if you cut up the flags of several obscure countries and then gave them to a blind pigeon to stick back together again.\u201d and \u201c\u2026she was still using her car, a blue Saxo that she drove in the way an excitable and short-sighted chimpanzee might have done, accelerating when she should be braking, braking when she should be accelerating, going slow in the fast lane, fast in the slow lane, more like someone on an amusement arcade simulator than a real road.\u201d Brilliant, as always. ...more This is my first Kate Atkinson book. I had wanted to read Case Histories , but my library didn't have it in, so I settled on this one. It wasn't until I started to read reviews that I realized this is actually a continuation of the series (apparently following the life of detective Jackson Brodie, though he takes a back seat in this book). Not knowing at all what to expect from Atkinson, I was a bit startled by the opening scene: a woman is walking down a country road with her 3 children and the This is my first Kate Atkinson book. I had wanted to read Case Histories , but my library didn't have it in, so I settled on this one. It wasn't until I started to read reviews that I realized this is actually a continuation of the series (apparently following the life of detective Jackson Brodie, though he takes a back seat in this book). Not knowing at all what to expect from Atkinson, I was a bit startled by the opening scene: a woman is walking down a country road with her 3 children and the family dog when a man suddenly appears and begins to follow them. He then proceeds to kill the dog, the mother and 2 of the 3 kids (one of the girls gets away). This is not a spoiler, as it happens in the first few pages of the story. The book then flashes forward to 30 years later, when the surviving daughter (now a doctor) is 36, and the man who killed her family is about to be paroled. What follows is more death, more murder, more families torn apart, and some drug dealing mixed in for added fun. Good times. :) Actually, despite such grimness, there are moments of respite and humor, and the book is well written. It is a definite page turner. The characters (once you can get them all sorted out) are well developed and quite likable. I just struggled a bit with the plausibility of how all these characters, who each had so much tragic death in their lives, would come together in the end in the way that they did. Still, a fast and interesting read... just not as good as I was hoping. ...more I was very disappointed with this book. The first two novels in this series about a Scottish detective, Jackson Brodie, who has a thing for missing women, were really clever and fun. The plots and pacing were tight and the characters were complex and rich. Atkinson will never be mistaken for a great writer but her writing was witty in those earlier novels. This book fails in all of those areas. It felt like Atkinson was rushed to get the book out, apparent even in the surprising typos scattered I was very disappointed with this book. The first two novels in this series about a Scottish detective, Jackson Brodie, who has a thing for missing women, were really clever and fun. The plots and pacing were tight and the characters were complex and rich. Atkinson will never be mistaken for a great writer but her writing was witty in those earlier novels. This book fails in all of those areas. It felt like Atkinson was rushed to get the book out, apparent even in the surprising typos scattered throughout. The plot wasn't clever at all and seemed more tired than anything. The effort seemed rather forced. The only part of the book that I liked was the character Reggie Chase, but even she couldn't save this book. I recommend reading the first two in the series - Case Histories or One Good Turn - and skipping this one. ...more El primero de esta serie que me gusta de verdad. La introducci\u00f3n del personaje de Reggie hizo que todo fuera mejor, me encant\u00f3 esa ni\u00f1a, la quise puro adoptar. Tambi\u00e9n me gust\u00f3 que Jackson apareciera m\u00e1s maduro y tuviera un papel m\u00e1s secundario que en la anterior, sin perjuicio que si consideramos que \u00e9l es el protagonista de la serie, tal vez no es tan bueno que me haya parecido genial que fuera menos importante jajaja Me ha gustado mucho. Los personajes est\u00e1n muy lejos de ser perfectos y eso me ha encantado. Tambien me ha gustado la forma en la q todo esta enlazado, me parece q est\u00e1 realmente bien desarrollado por la autora. La \u00fanica pega q le pondr\u00eda es q el final es demasiado r\u00e1pido para lo q me hubiera gustado. Pero es un libro q recomiendo sin lugar a dudas The third book in the Jackson Brodie private investigator series introduces two new intriguing female characters: one is a bright 16 year old orphan, the other a GP. The creative writing skills of Kate Atkinson always shine in unexpected ways. In this book each character represents a fictional person in a poem we all remember from our school years; this makes one want to review their poetry books. The thing I like the most about Kate Atkinson is her earthiness, her lack of pretension and her abi The third book in the Jackson Brodie private investigator series introduces two new intriguing female characters: one is a bright 16 year old orphan, the other a GP. The creative writing skills of Kate Atkinson always shine in unexpected ways. In this book each character represents a fictional person in a poem we all remember from our school years; this makes one want to review their poetry books. The thing I like the most about Kate Atkinson is her earthiness, her lack of pretension and her ability to detect and describe the pretentiousness of other individuals. ...more When Will There Be Good News? shares several qualities with its predecessors \"Case Studies\" and \"One Good Turn\", both of which also feature sad-sack detective Jackson Brodie, who makes a reappearance here. By now the ingredients in the mix are easily identified: Insanely complicated plotting - generally about five different strands unfolding in parallel; Atkinson switches from one to another with enormous skill and obvious delight. It's a bravura performance - she's brilliant and she knows it, bu When Will There Be Good News? shares several qualities with its predecessors \"Case Studies\" and \"One Good Turn\", both of which also feature sad-sack detective Jackson Brodie, who makes a reappearance here. By now the ingredients in the mix are easily identified: Insanely complicated plotting - generally about five different strands unfolding in parallel; Atkinson switches from one to another with enormous skill and obvious delight. It's a bravura performance - she's brilliant and she knows it, but one wonders why she feels the need to have so many balls in the air. Typically there's at least one plot strand that is completely dispensible (e.g., the drug-dealing brother in WWTBGN - no way did this need to get as grand guignol as it did). My impression is that Atkinson has a relatively short attention span and that she does it partly to keep herself amused, partly because she can't resist showing off. Key protagonists who are all damaged in some way, haunted by one or more horrific past events. Despite an apparent lack of connection at the outset, their paths are destined to cross and recross as the story develops with all plot strands converging in the remarkably bloody denouement. Despite the general gloom and doom, Atkinson tells her story with intelligence, wit and great humor. She is a terrific writer - the defining characteristic of her books is compulsive readability. Her talent allows her to get away with stuff that would crash and burn in the hands of a less skilled writer - most egregiously, a willingness to rely on the most improbable of coincidences as a device for plot resolution. After reading WWTBGN you realise that the degree of suspension of disbelief asked of the reader is shamelessly high. Actually, you kind of know it while you're reading as well, but you don't care - Atkinson hooks you so effectively that stopping is not an option. Her brilliance will also distract you from minor issues with her characterization. Ultimately it doesn't matter - you can't NOT care about what happens to the people at the center of WWTBGN . It's not just the four main protagonists either - you end up emotionally invested in everyone's fate, even the walk-on characters and the dogs. I should say that, while her reliance on coincidence is an obvious weakness, in the general scheme of things it's a very minor one. Her plot resolutions are in no way facile - quite the opposite, they are complicated, well-thought out and emotionally very satisfying, even given the elevated body count. There are several twists at the end of WWTBGN that I certainly didn't see coming, but which were really satisfying The over-reliance on coincidence isn't my main reason for knocking the rating down a star. Asking me to believe that Jackson couldn't figure out the difference between trains bound for Edinburgh and London was ridiculous enough to get a half-star penalty; the other half-star was deducted for Joanna's interminable mumbling of nursery rhymes in moments of stress, a facile and tedious device which represented a surprising lapse for a writer of Atkinson's talent. Although \"When Will There Be Good News\" shares some characters with \"Case Histories\" and \"One Good Turn\", it can be read and appreciated independently on its own merits. I think it's the strongest of the trilogy. ...more One of the reasons I adore Kate Atkinson so much is that her books are mysteries that you didn't know were mysteries until the very end. She has a writing style that I have found to be fairly unique. Her prose tends to border on stream of consciousness and twisted plot lines, but doesn't come off as being too presumptuous or even at times, wordy. Her gift is for creating characters that are not always what they seem and at the same time, are fully formed and believable. Her latest book, When Wil One of the reasons I adore Kate Atkinson so much is that her books are mysteries that you didn't know were mysteries until the very end. She has a writing style that I have found to be fairly unique. Her prose tends to border on stream of consciousness and twisted plot lines, but doesn't come off as being too presumptuous or even at times, wordy. Her gift is for creating characters that are not always what they seem and at the same time, are fully formed and believable. Her latest book, When Will There Be Good News? imagines a world where Joanna Hunter (in the now) is re-visited by the horror of her past, her family (mother and siblings) brutally killed when she was six in front of her. Thirty years later, the killer is paroled and Joanna suddenly disappears. The question then becomes, is Joanna Hunter the innocent she has portrayed after all these years? This is the third book by Atkinson that features Jackson Brodie, a character she created in Case Histories , who has re-appeared in her previous book, One Good Turn . Ex-solider, ex-policeman, Brodie is now a retired millionaire whose own faults seemingly are also his weaknesses. Brodie, who this time around plays a subtle minor character in the drama as it unfolds, seemingly is one step away from the realities that surround him. What he desires and wants, is what we all desire and want an yet for Brodie, everything is almost out of reach. As with her other books, Atkinson has a gift for sly observation and reporting on and grasping the intricies of the human condition that so many of us either can't grasp or want to forget. When Will There Be Good News? is a taut novel but this is the first of her books I have found to be a little bit more messy in the wrapping up of the plot. Things happen, and to Joanna Hunter, Reggie Chase and Jackson Brodie, they seemingly happen for a reason. We root for them in ways we cannot think we would, and we excuse them of their flaws but it is in their flaws (Brodie's and Hunter's) that seemingly were a little too gapping to make believable. But in Atkinson's own problems with the writing, it is also her greatest strengths. Atkinson's books are not \"skimming\" books, you really do have to pay attention as she will throw out a word or a line of dialog that suddenly makes some prior related instances, much more sense. Once she throws that word or line out, it will not be repeated or revisited. Miss that key, and the book will not be as good as you think it could be. I adore her plot twists and devices as it makes her books wholly full filling. I love the fact that everytime I finish one of her books, I can revsit it at another date and find something new that I missed the first time. I adore the fact that she asks questions that may not always have the easiest answers and her answers (and questions) are not presumptious or overworked. Pick up any of Atkinson's works and you will not be disappointed -- she's not as well known in the States as she is in the U.K., but while this is not her strongest book, this will hopefully push her over the edge. ...more<---C>Kate Atkinson</---C>", "Title": "When Will There Be Good News?"},
