{"Comments": "I know some people have in mind to be more fond/easy on indie authors because of obvious reasons. Unfortunately, I am not one of those. For me, a book is a book and each one of them has to be treated equally. You can agree or you can not agree, but I\u2019m staying with this rating anyway and with that thought as well. I believe full honesty from reviewers is the best way for them (<---B>authors in general</---B>) to overcome their weaknesses. <+++>Carnelian</+++> has such a beautiful cover and a plot that seems promising. I I know some people have in mind to be more fond/easy on indie authors because of obvious reasons. Unfortunately, I am not one of those. For me, a book is a book and each one of them has to be treated equally. You can agree or you can not agree, but I\u2019m staying with this rating anyway and with that thought as well. I believe full honesty from reviewers is the best way for them (authors in general) to overcome their weaknesses. <+++>Carnelian</+++> has such a beautiful cover and a plot that seems promising. I have been fooled once more needless to say. The writing : This author has an OK (AKA not bad) writing style and I liked the pacing since it was a fast one. What I am not a fan of is what she wrote about but this will come later. Her style succeeded to make me finish the reading of this book, especially because of the ambience which was not special but light. A HUGE problem I had with her writing was the fact that she kept repeating information as if maybe we didn\u2019t understand the first time. Also she kept repeating words over and over again. It\u2019s like she didn\u2019t reread herself, didn\u2019t care or didn\u2019t realize it. For example: Most probably arrived yesterday and were already making friends . I didn\u2019t know a single person attending Morton as I was miles away from home and all my high school friends . It was a bit scary to start over, but it was for the best. I was really only going to miss a few of my friends , [\u2026] It gets worst: ''Chris?'' I waved him over to the ground after we had our bandanas on. Sim grabbed a bandana and wadded it up in her hands to cover the bandana print in the middle of it. ''Do we have any more people showing up?'' I asked, pointing to the left over bandanas . As you have maybe guesses, repetition is one of my pet peeves in books. I think the author repeated the word \u2018friend/friends\u2019 like 50 times in the book. That is a lot because it contains only 200 pages. I have many other examples but will stop here. The plot : Marcelle is new at the Morton college. On her first day, a boy literally falls on her lap. Since that moment, she can\u2019t stop thinking about him. Of course, she learns he is a player and doesn\u2019t want to be another girl on his list. Apparently the guy, Seth, has two other brothers. Interested in knowing more about them, she reads their files and discovers that it is like their lives started three years ago because there is not data beyond that. Marcelle decides to learn who those guys really are and why does Seth keep insisting in going out with her. Meh. A good thing is that the plot wasn\u2019t predictable (except for the romance) but it was pretty simple. Also,<---M> between all of that</---M>, there is this competition called CRUSH which I have no idea why the author included it in her book. There is NO link with the time travel stuff.<---F> NO link</---F>. Carnelian felt absolutely like a contemporary until about 40-50% of it. The ending, without telling any spoiler, was so 'eye-rolling-worth.' It\u2019s as if what the main character did was useless because it only \u2018proved\u2019 something but without really having any positive consequence, just the obvious type. So the author talks about a certain \u2018war\u2019 that is happening in the country and century from which the three boys are from. Technically, it is important, right? Really, huh? Well, tell that to Marcelle because she obviously doesn\u2019t realize that. She is more than occupied spending time with her dear Seth: I settled back into Seth\u2019s arms and let the warmth keep me happy. I didn\u2019t see too much of the movie as I laid there. I couldn\u2019t put my finger on it, but it felt like time was pressing on us. Things were too quiet and peaceful. It couldn\u2019t last, but I wanted it too. Oh, so you don\u2019t care about saving those people from a war. Selfish girl. Marcelle is taking the fact that her parents aren\u2019t actually her real parents too well. The fact that she is able to travel trough time feels normal for her. She simply reacts like this: I was a child of time, whatever that really meant. No wonder my mother never mentioned who my father was. Maybe she didn\u2019t know. Maybe she did know and know he would never be coming home. She always told me that he was gone and could never come back. I bet she knew. She had kept that from me all these years. I always thought something bad had gone down between my parents, and one day I would find something with his name on it. [...] That\u2019s it? No suspicion? You truly believe that goddess without any proof that makes you a child of time? No \u2018you\u2019re all crazy\u2019 scene? No running with tears falling from your eyes because your life has been a lie? Oh well\u2026 The characters : they were very (main characters + secondary) stereotyped and felt so recycled. It's like the author didn't try to create them but more like she picked them. The only one I enjoyed reading about is Ty, and a bit of Seth. Sim (Marcelle\u2019s roommate) : The only thing she cares about is boys. School? What the hell, she sleeps until the last minute before going to her classes. I mean, I understand about laying in bed in the weekends but not every day, girl. She\u2019s not a bad person at least. Ty (Sangre brother) : Ty is so nice. He\u2019s the perfect friend always there for you, in need of help. It\u2019s a shame that there was no love interest for him. I\u2019d perfectly see him with a friendly good girl. He didn't have a big role as well as his other brother Dee. Dee (Sangre brother) : He doesn\u2019t take much space. He\u2019s quiet and we don\u2019t \u2018see\u2019 much of him. His role is actually more important at the end of the book. Not special or different but the common type, except from the fact that he is from another century. Seth (Sangre brother) : AKA the love interest and soul mate of Marcelle. Oh Seth was charming (and persistent) I admit. I didn\u2019t crave for him but, sure, I\u2019ll go out with him anytime. He\u2019s a great boyfriend. I wasn\u2019t sure about his fidelity either before as Marcelle, but I guess I understand his motifs. Although, I used to not like him at the beginning of the story because he was really suspicious. Changed my mind on him, which doesn't happen often, but I prefer liking characters from the beginning to the end of a book. Marcelle (main character) : AKA Mari, I didn\u2019t connect with her at all. She is egoist, thinking only about her and Seth. She plays it cool saying things like \u2018been there, done that\u2019 and not wanting to be on Seth\u2019s conquest list and pushing him away when she obviously wants him bad. Don\u2019t get me wrong, I love angst, but this was just pathetic. She sometimes said stuff that made just no sense at all. Like: I hated that I liked him. He was just going to break my heart. Maybe he already had. WHAT THE HELL? When someone breaks your heart, girl, you know it. You don\u2019t think it. Also, she and I don\u2019t have the same understanding level because: The goddess sensed my thoughts. ''You need the stone to be one of us,'' the goddess replied. ''When time first began, my essence was placed in one hundred of those stones. I cannot send someone without a stone; it would be taxing on me on the point where I would fail at my role. With a stone in hand and part of my power, all I do is to give the person with the stone and push in the right direction. The stone is your connection to traveling. You needed the stone as much as the next person, but you didn\u2019t need it to talk to me. [\u2026] That was as confusing as it could get. I needed the stone, but I didn\u2019t need the stone. Could you be more stupid concentrated? She said you don\u2019t need the stone to be able to talk to her but to travel yes. *rolls eyes* She judges people\u2026 Breanne, nice girl with blond curls introduced herself then\u2026 ''I\u2019m Ty Sangre,'' Ty stepped, in saving me from introducing myself. I really wasn\u2019t as interesting as the Barbie doll in front of me. Also: About Melissa (interested in Seth but no one in particular): We didn\u2019t get to hear what she ranted on about. I was really curious what such a shallow girl could say in response. It\u2019s a pity that she acts like that, because I could really have liked the MC. Or not since she\u2019s so undecided and annoying: (She kept saying how Seth is cute, cute, cute and cute.) Darn boy he had to be cute, but I was not going to fall for him. Again and again. But then: He had equal amount of traits I liked and disliked; I think my overall opinion was actually neutral on him. He was cute. Okay, not cute\u2026gorgeous. Urg, seriously? Is he cute or not? You misled me by saying he was cute when in fact he is gorgeous. No one likes to be misled, even for small things like that. The romance : Oh well, they\u2019re soul mates, of course it is very cheesy, making me roll my eyes quite often, especially when Seth says things like: ''I didn\u2019t kiss her,'' Seth answered. ''She kissed me and I told her that nothing was between us, just like I told her tonight. You\u2019re the only girl I see.'' Or: ''Marcella Navina, I am in love with you. I\u2019ve been in love with you probably since the day I first feel into your lap.'' Apparently, for Seth it was insta-love. Yeah, right, like I believe him. There are plenty of other cheesy moments that you could discover while reading this book. Overall, I think this could\u2019ve been better as a contemporary and without that insta-love/ insta-hate element. The fact that the time travel theme was far in the book was a huge weakness in my opinion. The CRUSH competition was very interesting (due the contemporary suggestion) but totally unnecessary. I won\u2019t read the sequel because I personally don\u2019t care enough about the characters and story (which wasn\u2019t as serious as it actually needed to be.) Also posted (+GIVEAWAY) on Seeing Night Reviews ...more Carnelian is book one in the Chalcedony Chronicles by <---A>B. Kristin McMichael</---A>. Marcella Navina, or Mari as she is known by, has arrived. She is moving into her dorm room and is about to begin her college career. Her life\u2019s plan was never questioned. She always knew she was expected to work with her Grandfather after college. But the next four years were hers. She was most definitely not looking for a boyfriend. The first time she laid eyes on Seth, the oh so handsome college quarterback and most d Carnelian is book one in the Chalcedony Chronicles by B. Kristin McMichael. Marcella Navina, or Mari as she is known by, has arrived. She is moving into her dorm room and is about to begin her college career. Her life\u2019s plan was never questioned. She always knew she was expected to work with her Grandfather after college. But the next four years were hers. She was most definitely not looking for a boyfriend. The first time she laid eyes on Seth, the oh so handsome college quarterback and most definite ladies man, she knew she had to stay away from him. This boy was a player with a capital \u201cP!\u201d But Seth has a different idea. He wants Mari and is not taking no for an answer. \u201cSomething was really different with Seth Sangre, and I wasn\u2019t sure I wanted to know what it was.\u201d Seth Sangre and his two brothers Ty and Dee are not normal college students. They are from the past. They are from ancient Egypt where they rode chariots into battle. Their country has been at war and Seth would do anything to help to save it. The Goddess has told Seth that he must travel to the future to meet someone very important to him. But that\u2019s all she told him. So he has searched for three years to no avail. Until he met Mari. He knew she was the one destined for him to find. He just had to convince her of it. \u201cI don\u2019t know why the goddess sent me to you, but I\u2019ll be forever grateful. My eyes were never truly open until I met you. Even if she decides to pull me away from you tomorrow, I\u2019ll do everything I can to get back. I can\u2019t imagine a world without you, and I\u2019ll find a way for us to be together.\u201d Seth and Mari are trying to navigate the first months of college and the first overwhelming emotions of true love. At the same time, though, they are faced with the reality that Seth does not belong here in the present. But why was he supposed to find Mari? Why was she so important? Although I really did like Seth and Mari, I just never did fully connect with this story. It just didn\u2019t pull me in the way I had hoped. But, there is plenty of room for further development. I did feel the love between Seth and Mari and some of the things Seth said were so beautiful and sweet. I instantly liked Seth\u2019s friend Ty right from the start. The sequel Chrysoprase is due out late this summer and I will be interested to see where Ms. McMichael takes these two next. Will they find a way to be together? How will Mari help Seth to save his country? Is Mari strong enough to survive ancient Egypt or can she bring Seth back to her own time? ...more *I was given a copy by the author for an honest review.* I am usually weary of reading time travel novels, because they are so confusing. My brain just goes into shock whenever I think of time travel. The possibilities are limitless and I find it hard to track all of the threads. Also quite abnormal for me is to get into these kind of stories. I was pleasantly surprised to find this book more than compelling. I understood the flow of the narration and I was hooked. About the characters I can only h *I was given a copy by the author for an honest review.* I am usually weary of reading time travel novels, because they are so confusing. My brain just goes into shock whenever I think of time travel. The possibilities are limitless and I find it hard to track all of the threads. Also quite abnormal for me is to get into these kind of stories. I was pleasantly surprised to find this book more than compelling. I understood the flow of the narration and I was hooked. About the characters I can only have words of praise. There are few books in which I love the lead female, and this is one of them. Mari is such a fun person to read. I love her spirit, her wit, her funny side, her shy attitude but also her determination. Not to mention she's got some smart thoughts. I cannot fault her any. She's not whiny, not a slacker, not dependent on the man she loves. And she does love Seth very much, but I'm glad that doesn't eat up her brain cells like in most of the books out there. Seth, oh my darling Seth, you are such eye candy. How could those chocolate eyes not melt you on the spot? I loved him to bits. He's so compatible with Mari it's not even funny. He loves her like crazy. Although he had some insta love going on I am so so so glad that this was not a book that banked on that. I got to experience their friendship grow into something more and that's always a plus. I can't say it loud and clear enough that I don't like books that don't have a love build up. I loved their love story. The side characters like Dee, Ty and Sim were awesome in their own rights. They contributed beautifully to the story and weren't just for show. I can't wait for the sequel to come out this summer. OH, bummer, such a long way to go. And with that little snippet at the end of the book, I will surely go crazy. Good job Ms. McMichael. ...more I was given this book in exchange for an honest review, Lovers of Paranormal. This was one of the best books I have read in a while. It gripped me from the start. The hot guy literally falling into Mari's lap was a brilliant introduction to their relationship. The characters were really interesting and well formed with personalities that were consistent. Seth, Ty and Dee coming from ancient Egypt and spending 3 years looking for an unknown girl could have been a bit of a washout but it was handled I was given this book in exchange for an honest review, Lovers of Paranormal. This was one of the best books I have read in a while. It gripped me from the start. The hot guy literally falling into Mari's lap was a brilliant introduction to their relationship. The characters were really interesting and well formed with personalities that were consistent. Seth, Ty and Dee coming from ancient Egypt and spending 3 years looking for an unknown girl could have been a bit of a washout but it was handled so well. Modern technology was not ignored but used and was an interesting detail when it failed to work when Mari wanted to look up specifics. Little details like this are what, to me, makes a great book. I hate to have unanswered questions and obvious possibilities ignored within a book. The details and explanations were well covered. The book was well written with a good clear plot that kept moving along at a pace that meant I couldn't put the book down. I didn't and read it in around half a day. A really great read!! Don't ignore the warning at the end of the book that says 'READ AT YOUR OWN RISK' It really is a cliffhanger to the next book that isn't out until Summer 2014 :-( ...more 1.5 stars. Thank you to NetGalley and Lexia Press for providing me with an ARC of this book in exchange for an honest review. Unfortunately, I just can't do it with this book. I gave it the college try. I fully read the first three chapters, then I began skimming, then I ultimately gave up on page 65. My problems stem from an unlikable and immature narrator, a lack of good story editing, and too many tired YA tropes (which can be forgivable when used by deft hands). Worst of all, the MC has extrem 1.5 stars. Thank you to NetGalley and Lexia Press for providing me with an ARC of this book in exchange for an honest review. Unfortunately, I just can't do it with this book. I gave it the college try. I fully read the first three chapters, then I began skimming, then I ultimately gave up on page 65. My problems stem from an unlikable and immature narrator, a lack of good story editing, and too many tired YA tropes (which can be forgivable when used by deft hands). Worst of all, the MC has extremely poor insight, strikes me as a tad histrionic, and leaps to the worst conclusions about people she doesn't know at all. Nothing about this book felt like a college experience to me. It felt juvenile and even the atmosphere of the book screamed middle or high school. I really dislike the MC, Mari. I'm finding her immature, snobbish, judgmental, self-centered, and she has a tendency to slut shame both men and women. The book is written in first person from her perspective, and for someone who is a freshman in college, seemingly an intelligent girl and bookworm, she sure is juvenile. She reads to me like she's in middle school, or maybe a freshman in high school. She also suffers from beautiful girl syndrome - you know the type, with the false humility. She's apparently hot, but doesn't know it, and other girls are far more interesting than she is, according to her (she tells us at one point about how the \"Barbie girl,\" who told us nothing but where she came from, the dorm she is in, and her planned major, is more interesting than she is). And despite being a hot girl herself, there's one scene when she ignores other girls in the quad who were \"made out to the max with...their perfect tans\" and revealing clothing. That's stealthy slut-shaming, but still slut-shaming. Acting like she's better than they are because they are made up while she is reading a book. It's very snobbish. She has very little personality and doesn't really interact much with other people. Almost everything we know takes place inside her head. She shrugs at people an awful lot, but rarely actually deigns to speak to them. I will spoiler the rest of this since I give away quite a few details from the first few chapters. Plus, this review is really long for only reading the first third or so. (view spoiler) [ The story begins with Mari leaving for college and going through the ropes of moving in, orientation, and beginning classes. She lets us know her every thought about this process in excruciating detail. As she walks the campus for the first time, she feels like everyone is looking at her, but acknowledges, at least, that likely no one is. Okay, fine. I'll forgive her the self-consciousness this time, no big deal. Except she spends the first several chapters constantly assuming people are paying attention to her. This is a college campus, not a small high school, and it's certainly not middle school. People don't care that much about some random freshman. Later on, she's reading a book under a tree when another student, whom she didn't bother to look at, apparently sat near her under the same tree. He falls asleep and apparently his head falls into her lap. So, he was sitting there the whole time so close that he would fall into her lap and she never noticed him? Okay, fine. But wouldn't you know it, he is, of course, the most gorgeous guy she's ever seen, so much so that she starts referring to him as an underwear model before she learns his name (Seth). Shortly after this incident, we learn that she, too, is beautiful when she literally runs into another guy on campus (who happens to be the brother of the hot guy). There are scenes in which she meets her roommate for the first time, who arrives with her parents. Some of the most awkward and inappropriate conversations then ensue between Mari and these parents. They said things that I don't think you would say to a person you just met 15 minutes ago. Like mentioning how patient she is (for standing by a vehicle for a few minutes) and them remarking that her parents raised such a patient child and asking for advice. Later, the Dad asks the roommate what she said to Mari to make her blush so much! I dunno, it seems to me that you aren't going to go out of your way, as an adult, to embarrass a girl you just met when it's obvious she's already embarrassed about something. It just felt weird, like the author didn't know how to write an organic conversation between the freshman and her new roommate's parents. After that, despite it being their first college experience, despite only having just met each other, and presumably having plenty of getting-t-know-you conversational topics, everything revolves around Seth (also, this is the smallest campus I've ever heard of, since she can't seem to go anywhere without running into the same three people, and avoiding Seth is apparently impossible). Even during orientation, when they are trying to learn about the other students, conversation turns to Seth and all the girls in the group immediately go ga-ga about him like, \"ohhhhh, he's so dreamy.\" (Literally, three girls sigh in unison at the mere mention of his name, and, like middle schoolers, they start asking about whether he has a girlfriend, who he is interested in, blah blah; one girl says she \"wishes she was beautiful\" so she could be a perfect fit for him, like his last girlfriend). But anyway, he has apparently set her sights on Mari, which she only knows because she overhead a conversation he had with his brothers about her, and from there, it's all about Seth, the would-be underwear model. Who happens to be the star quarterback of the world's smallest college (eye roll). Let's talk for a moment about that, shall we? Unless you go to a large school, I find it highly suspect that everyone on campus knows who the quarterback is. Let's say you go to a very small school - what are the chances that A) the school supports a football program; and B) the football program is a big enough deal for every student to know its quarterback's name? Like I said, feels like a high school atmosphere. More about Seth. He's also the son of a very wealthy local family (more eye rolls). Talk about a Gary Stu. The roomie, of course, is envious, because Mari has a hot guy watching her, looking like he wants to make out right there! What's not to like?! Enter the judgmental, slut-shaming Mari. She wants nothing to do with Seth because, despite knowing nothing about him, \"guys like that were always trouble.\" Before she knows anything about him, she has written him off as a player (she overheard a conversation in which Seth said he \"found her,\" and a brother replied, \"just like the last 23 times,\" so she naturally assumes he is a player). First off, so what if he has had 23 girlfriends (which actually wasn't even confirmed; they could have been dates for all we know). None of your damn business. Doesn't mean he's a bad guy. Second, her assumptions aren't based in any actual facts whatsoever. At one point, she sees him (and others) greeting girls with kisses. She then leaps to the conclusion that he has a girlfriend (and ignores his protests when he assures her that he does not). Lots of people greet each other with friendly kisses. That she also knows he had the same one girlfriend for most of the previous school year doesn't seem to change her judgment about him. From there, it just snowballs and every time she mentions what a player he is (she does it numerous times in the first three chapters), it gets worse. She leaps to conclusions that he planned to make her a name on his list. What?! She says that the idea of him liking her and making her his \"next target\" is her \"worst fear. C'mon! It is worth reminding you at this point she has been on campus all of half a day so far. And she doesn't let it go. She reminds us at every opportunity that he is bad news, and wants a notch in his belt. It's terribly repetitive. It goes on for pages, then comes up again every few pages or so, just in case you forget that she's just not into being a on someone's list of conquests. I'm not even exaggerating. And the first few chapters only encompass about 2 or 3 full days. She actively tries to avoid these guys, only a few hours into college, while still helping the roommate move in, and becomes completely obsessed with them why? Because she thinks Seth might like her and might ask her out. She says, \"college was getting harder by the minute and I hadn't even been to my first class yet. \" C'mon! Life is not this hard. Not to mention, there are worse problems than having a beautiful boy possibly ask you out. Worst case scenario? You say no and move on. Making matters worse, she doesn't have much of a personality beyond her judgments about others. She has no backbone whatsoever. She reminds us constantly that being in the presence of these brothers makes her uncomfortable, but makes no effort to remove herself from the situation. She meets one brother, Ty, in a line. As they walk away, he found an area in which to sit during orientation. She says, \" I had no excuse not to take a seat. \" What? Of course you do. If you don't want to sit with the guy, don't. It's not that hard. Just say, \"nice meeting you,\" walk over to that other empty space on the grass and sit down over there . I about lost it when the \"mystery\" element came into play. She signed up to be a tutor and, coincidence of all coincidences, she has been assigned to Seth and his brothers. She reads their files, noting they were all home schooled until their Junior year of high school, and they were all adopted from different countries. Apparently, this is all very, very strange and requires more investigation. I mean, why were they adopted from different countries at the same time, hmmmm? Why doesn't the internet reveal anything about them before they entered high school, hmmmm? Suspicious! No, it's really not. Not everyone lives out their entire lives on the net, maybe their family wanted to adopt from other countries, and maybe, just maybe, it's none of your damn business. Then, her roommate, whose parents are presumably from India, tells her that Seth, despite being adopted there, definitely is not Indian, because she has \"been to India and seen lots of Indian people,\" and when you \"get up close and see him, you can tell [he's not Indian]\" so Mari just accepts that as fact (she actually says that Sim \"stated a fact she was beginning to believe as well\") and concludes that the files were faked. Wait, what?! So, the logical conclusion is that because your roommate of Indian heritage has seen some Indian people before and has concluded it is factual that he is not Indian, the files must be faked? What kind of asinine leap is that? If I thought her assumptions about Seth's intentions with her were silly and unjustified, this just took her to a whole new level. (hide spoiler) ] Now here's the deal, reading the description you can see that Seth has a past, and that Mari is undoubtedly part of it. You can see there might be some insta-love and/or destiny to fulfill here. I had no problem with that. I knew that going in and was willing to give it a chance. When done well, stereotypical tropes don't bother me a bit. Laini Taylor used similar tropes in DoSaB, but they worked, and worked well. This book, though, I never got to get to that part of the story. College students just don't behave this way, and it's a shame, because I was looking forward to a book set in college, not high school. This, though, was a regression - they acted like very young high schoolers. I can't get past the MC, her stupidity, the constant repetition and the terrible dialogue. Especially when this book is in desperate need of a good deal of editing. The writing itself is serviceable and easy, but could do with some serious editorial love. Even casting aside some of the grammatical errors (I noted errant commas here and there and some verb agreement issues), and ignoring some of the awkward sentences, there was a lot of unnecessary exposition. Readers aren't stupid. They will pick up on the details, especially the more obvious ones that are written using flashing neon signs (and repeated on every other page...seriously, do something about that, it gets annoying very quickly). If it was only a random mistake here and there, it wouldn't have bothered me so much, but it kept taking me out of the story. There were other details that felt like they were thrown in there for page count, and added nothing to the story. Some examples: - He kissed the deep red stone amulet crusted in blood in his hand... To me, that's an awkward sentence because the way in which it is constructed suggests that the blood is in his hand, not on the amulet. - Every muscle around his shoulders and arms were perfectly defined...\" Either the muscles were, or the muscle was. Bad verb agreement here. - In strolled a petite, olive-skinned, girl with long dark hair. One of several errant commas. - There was a line for the first half of the alphabet. Since my last name was Navina, sometimes I fell in the first or second half, depending on how many people of each last name were around. Wait, what? Yes, indeed, your name would fall into either the first or the second half of the alphabet. -(After spending ample time showing us that her roommate is not a morning person, the roommate sits down and complains about her schedule having classes at 8:30 a.m.) Mari then tells us, \"...and now I realized why she was complaining. She was not a morning person. What gave it away? The fact that you spent several pages before this showing us how she was half asleep while you were both going to the orientation? Or the part where she literally just lamented having morning classes? - Talking about a girl they meet during orientation, she noted it was \"very odd that a girl had a southern accent, since they were \" about as far away from the south as you could get. Why is that weird? Didn't Mari choose this school precisely because it was far from her family, so she could really strive for independence? Is it that bizarre that someone from the south might choose to go to school there also? What a weird thing to call weird. - \"...they caught up with numbers of girls, greeting them with kisses.\" In context, another awkward sentence. I get what she's going for here, but it's just written in a way that doesn't read well. In all, this is not one I can finish. My pages are marked up so badly, my Nook can't handle it. Some pages have several marks. There is some potential here, I felt the undertones of a good story in there somewhere, but the surface of the water was so muddy, I just couldn't see it. ...more Love through the ages, two souls meant for each other, but living centuries and continents apart. A goddess steps in and with the magic of love and a special stone, Seth and his \u201ctwo brothers\u201d are thrust into the contemporary world that Mari resides in, only to have to wait three years for her to show up. Are Mari and Seth destined to be together, not if Mari has anything to say about it. Carnelian by B. Kristin McMichael tells a fascinating tale of one cynical college freshman who fights the att Love through the ages, two souls meant for each other, but living centuries and continents apart. A goddess steps in and with the magic of love and a special stone, Seth and his \u201ctwo brothers\u201d are thrust into the contemporary world that Mari resides in, only to have to wait three years for her to show up. Are Mari and Seth destined to be together, not if Mari has anything to say about it. Carnelian by B. Kristin McMichael tells a fascinating tale of one cynical college freshman who fights the attraction to one of the college\u2019s biggest players refusing to be another notch on his belt. Ms. McMichael has created a very realistic look at college life, the new found freedoms and pressures from all around. Her tale is a fresh take on time travel and soul mates and doesn\u2019t rush into the relationship, but lets it slowly bloom and grow throughout each page. Loved the concept, loved all of the supporting characters, who truly added charm, intrigue and life to this tale. Seth is a little mysterious as he dodges questions about his past, but he wears his heart on his sleeve and shows all the signs of a young man in love. The only problem I had was with Mari, herself. She comes across as an overachiever who MUST excel while complaining about the shortcomings of others, as she reaffirms her athletic abilities and her academic prowess, over and over to one and all. For such a young person she appears very cynical, hard, distrusting and self-important. As a role model, Mari leaves much to be desired. For me, she stole the sparkle of this otherwise fantastic read. Ms. McMichael has a truly wonderful gift of storytelling and creating a perfect flow,her heroine was just too negative for me. 3.5 Stars I received this copy from Lexia Press in exchange for my honest review. The Chalcedony Chronicles - Book 1 Publication Date: January 9, 2014 Publisher: Lexia Press ISBN: 9780989121866 Genre: YA Paranormal Fantasy Print Length: 237 pages Available from: Amazon | Barnes & Noble ...more **I was given this book by the author in exchange for an honest review.** **slight hints at spoilers... Before I say anything, I just have to take a moment and gush over the cover because it is completely AWESOME. It's one of those covers that instantly draw you too a book before you even read blurb. So pretty. Anyway, I had no idea what to expect from this book, except for the fact that I've loved everything I've read from B Kristin McMichael. I was completely blown away by this cool time traveling **I was given this book by the author in exchange for an honest review.** **slight hints at spoilers... Before I say anything, I just have to take a moment and gush over the cover because it is completely AWESOME. It's one of those covers that instantly draw you too a book before you even read blurb. So pretty. Anyway, I had no idea what to expect from this book, except for the fact that I've loved everything I've read from B Kristin McMichael. I was completely blown away by this cool time traveling concept. I would have never thought to write about ancient Egypt or bring influence from that culture, out of the past that could have been chosen, I was intrigued that this was selected. I was slightly leery about the pace of the book because the way the beginning was it felt like it could only be a stand alone, because I just couldn't imagine it going on for me than one book, it felt like it was possible to run out of plot...but no, Kristin McMichael took me by surprise and completely took me by surprise when Mari went back for Seth and his father dropped that little bomb...yeah I totally did not expect that. That blew a whole new life into the story and immediately realized there was so much more it had to offer and I LOVED that. I don't know what my problem is by I always seem to fall in love the secondary characters. I LOVED Ty! He was so adorable and I was routing for him all the time, especially when he went back to the past :) I can't wait to hear more from him! I did love Seth, he the perfect book boyfriend and I did like Mari's character, very \"relate-able\" in many aspects. I loved their love and can't wait to see what's in store for them. Great start to a cool new series by B Kristin McMichael, I'm excited for what's to come! ...more R2R (LoP) Carnelian (The Chalcedony Chronicles) I received a free copy, through LoP, in exchange for a review. Past, present, future. Seth is all of these, all in one person. He's been pushed forward, in time, to find someone, someone that will help his past country from further war and destruction. He cannot remember from where he came from or time, just that he needs to find someone. Mari is just starting college and has been looking forward to this time, to be by herself and away from her lovin R2R (LoP) Carnelian (The Chalcedony Chronicles) I received a free copy, through LoP, in exchange for a review. Past, present, future. Seth is all of these, all in one person. He's been pushed forward, in time, to find someone, someone that will help his past country from further war and destruction. He cannot remember from where he came from or time, just that he needs to find someone. Mari is just starting college and has been looking forward to this time, to be by herself and away from her loving family. The first day there, she has an interesting introduction to this mysterious guy, who just happens to fall into her lap, literally. After that, everything takes on a new course, one that will test her mind, knowledge, faith and a discovery that would boggle most people. 'I went back to Seth's room and lay down on the bed. The facts were confusing. Who were the Sangre brothers? Why was Seth searching for me? How did he heal so quickly? Was he even human? I sat up at the last thought. I wasn't really a believer in all the fantasy books I read; they were just entertaining, but now my mind was racing. Seth didn't exist beyond the past three years, and he could heal miraculously. I got up and went to his open computer. It was already turned on, and I decided to borrow it. While I waited for Seth, I could make my own list of possibilities.' My first 5 star book for the year! While parts of the story were a little childish, it was overall a wonderful story, with not just one plot line to follow. It really gave a lot more that I thought it would and it has left me wanting to know what is going to happen! Time travel, new friends, puzzles, it's got everything! ...more *Note: I recieved a copy of this book from the author on a R2R basis (LOP)* First off, lets just stop and stare at this beautiful cover.. I mean it is just perfection! I was really REALLY looking forward to reading this book. I entered every contest available that was giving away this book.. never won any of them. I was so upset. Then I happened to notice the group LOVERS OF PARANORMAL had this book to read and review.. of course I jumped on that band wagon! I adored this book. The plot was perfect *Note: I recieved a copy of this book from the author on a R2R basis (LOP)* First off, lets just stop and stare at this beautiful cover.. I mean it is just perfection! I was really REALLY looking forward to reading this book. I entered every contest available that was giving away this book.. never won any of them. I was so upset. Then I happened to notice the group LOVERS OF PARANORMAL had this book to read and review.. of course I jumped on that band wagon! I adored this book. The plot was perfect, the idea behind this book was perfect, the characters (of course flawed in obvious ways to make them seem real enough) were perfectly written. I don't think there is one bad thing anybody could say about this book! Can't wait for book 2! ...more **** Review Originally Posted at Pink Fluffy Hearts: Diary of a Coffee Addict **** I knew that I would end up liking \"Carnelian\" when I first signed up to do a review for it, but I had no idea how much I would come to love the book. It was one of those books that instantly hooked me in and I didn't want to put it down until it was finished. It only took me a little over a day to finish (it would have been less if I didn't have to go and do that stupid thing called \"work\"), and I'm already excitedl **** Review Originally Posted at Pink Fluffy Hearts: Diary of a Coffee Addict **** I knew that I would end up liking \"Carnelian\" when I first signed up to do a review for it, but I had no idea how much I would come to love the book. It was one of those books that instantly hooked me in and I didn't want to put it down until it was finished. It only took me a little over a day to finish (it would have been less if I didn't have to go and do that stupid thing called \"work\"), and I'm already excitedly anticipating book two. Our book starts with the main character, Mari, starting her first day of her first year of college. She's on her own in a new place, and not even her mother is there to make sure she's settled (her mother and grandfather that they live with were called away on business). Mari is sitting outside reading a book, when an attractive guy literally falls into her lap, since he fell asleep and slumped over into her personal space. She carefully eases herself away, but that isn't the last time she sees or deals with Mr. Narcolepsy. The sleeping hottie turns out to be our lead male character, Seth. And right from the beginning, he is convinced that Mari is the right one for him. One of the big things that I liked about this book was that Mari didn't automatically swoon for Seth. Yes, she has eyes and is the first to admit that he is good looking, but she doesn't want to end up as just another notch on a bedpost. Because of a conversation she accidently overheard, Mari's first impression of Seth is that he's a player and she's reluctant to let anything happen there. Mari's reluctance was a great thing for me. In so many YA books, the girl automatically falls for the good looking, mysterious guy at school, whether she knows him or not. However, in \"Carnelian\" Mari is given the opportunity to get to know Seth as a friend and as a person instead of just being, \u2018Yeah, I love him, he's so pretty\u2019. I liked it, and believe that their getting to know each other gave some needed depth to the characters. Another thing that sets \"Carnelian\" apart from other books is the supernatural element that is involved. Instead of being a vampire or a werewolf or witch, Seth is actually from another time. He and his brothers time traveled to Mari's world, and that's what makes them so different. The time traveling thing was something that's not overplayed in YA Paranormal Romance and it proved to be an interesting read. One thing that was kind of weird and seemed off in the story was the game that the college was playing called CRUSH. There were a few scenes of Mari and her friends doing the different tasks, but they didn't do much to push the overall story forward. As a result, they just seemed out of place. Even though there was some cute interaction between Mari and Seth during the CRUSH events, I think that the story wouldn't actually lose anything if those scenes were cut. Even though there were some minor flaws, overall, I really enjoyed reading \"Carnelian\". The characters were likable (especially Seth's brother, Ty who's just one of the most loveable people ever), and the story was interesting and a new change of pace to read. I would definitely recommend it. ...more *I received a copy of this book for free from the author through the Never Too Old For Y.A. & N.A. Books Group. This in no way effect my final review of this book.* A super fast read or maybe it just seemed that way because I was into the story. Took me less than a day reading this book on and off to finish. The prologue starts off clearly sometime in the past. All you know is a young man and his two companions are desperately praying to any god they can think of to help them. Once the first *I received a copy of this book for free from the author through the Never Too Old For Y.A. & N.A. Books Group. This in no way effect my final review of this book.* A super fast read or maybe it just seemed that way because I was into the story. Took me less than a day reading this book on and off to finish. The prologue starts off clearly sometime in the past. All you know is a young man and his two companions are desperately praying to any god they can think of to help them. Once the first chapter starts you are in now times and following Mari's POV as she heads off to college. Her grandfather is big in the antiques business and is always going off places on trips to check them out. Unfortunately for Mari that means settling in at college alone as her grandfather and her mom had to turn back before they even made it to college. From there you get into the usual stuff that comes with starting college, meeting you new roommate, getting the lay of the land, seemly being stalked by the rich, hot quarterback, Seth? Wait what? That totally did not happen to me during my college experience. Of course Mari has been through this type of thing in high school and it did not work out well. She vows to never date a player again. Unfortunately (or maybe fortunately?) He seems pretty persistent. Mari hits is off with one of Seth's friends. Mari herself is even having trouble staying away as she seems drawn to him. What follows is a seemly normal contemporary college romance type of story, but there is more to it. You see Seth is really that guy we met at the beginning of the book (I'm not really giving anything away here as this is stated in the description). Apparently his prayers were answered by one of the gods and he was sent into the future to find Mari, only he didn't know it was her specifically. She is the key to helping him in the past, but how? Their stories start to interweave more deeply from there and, of course, when things really start to get interesting, the story ends! I can't wait to see where the story goes! I liked the characters in this book. I liked the general story idea. I was okay with the pacing. It turned out to be the perfect book to read at the time I read it. I found it to be a really good one too as I finished this story a few days ago and have read a few since. I know I got a little behind on the writing of actual reviews when I was a little under the weather. I would possibly read this book again and I would definitely recommend it to a friend. As this is the second series I have checked out by this author and liked, I also plan to keep an eye out for future books. 4.5 Stars Raised Up from 4 because the story has stuck with me (in a good way). ...more 5 stars I'm just a die hard fan of time traveling and not only that it involves Egypt. I rarely find books whose settings are in Egypt. At first, I didn't know that it involved time traveling and Egypt. The beginning started out as something regular and the meeting of Mari and Seth was quite different. A guy falling asleep in her lap. The attraction was there for Mari and it happened to Seth afterwards. Their relationship started as slow first because Seth was known as a player (but due to reason 5 stars I'm just a die hard fan of time traveling and not only that it involves Egypt. I rarely find books whose settings are in Egypt. At first, I didn't know that it involved time traveling and Egypt. The beginning started out as something regular and the meeting of Mari and Seth was quite different. A guy falling asleep in her lap. The attraction was there for Mari and it happened to Seth afterwards. Their relationship started as slow first because Seth was known as a player (but due to reasons) and Mari after having a bad relationship in high school was cautious of Seth. But as she hanged out with Seth she realizes there is more to Seth than just his image. She then also realized there is more to Seth especially when she learned of their nonexistent background plus an incident that happened which made Mari realized that Seth has a bigger secret and when she finds out it is something she never imagined. The characters were very likeable instantly. I like Mari's strong character and her stubbornness is just right that it doesn't make her character annoying. Her love for Seth is strong she would do anything to find and be with him even if it means traveling back to the past. Seth is just amazing. He is very sweet but has a strong character too. I loved that he loves Mari to the point he doesn't want to break her heart especially when he needs to go back and that his father has plans for him. His letter for Mari was very sweet and touching that I too cried with Mari. Did I mention the side characters were amazing as well. Ty and Dee showed a strong bond of friendship with Seth and that they will always be there to support him. Sim's personality may be opposite of Mari but they fit well together. Sim is supportive as well and I like how she encourages more like stubbornly let Mari be involved in having a joyful experience of life. I'm just sad to say that it took near the ending for the story to get to the point and that when it became more interesting it just ended. I also should have take heed of the warning of the author because when I read the preview of book 2 I was like nooooo!!!! I can't wait for Book 2 and read what happens next. I received a copy thanks to Never Too Old For Y.A. & N.A. Books ...more Definitely a wow book. I thought after reading the blurb about this book it was going to follow some of the same story lines that come with new adult paranormal books. But it didn't at all. And I FREAKIN LOVE it!!!!!! Now those of you who think they know exactly what this book is about and just want to skip over it please don't. It really is an amazing start to a series. You can expect certain things like a mild cliffhanger (unless you ignore her warning when she tells you to not to read the firs Definitely a wow book. I thought after reading the blurb about this book it was going to follow some of the same story lines that come with new adult paranormal books. But it didn't at all. And I FREAKIN LOVE it!!!!!! Now those of you who think they know exactly what this book is about and just want to skip over it please don't. It really is an amazing start to a series. You can expect certain things like a mild cliffhanger (unless you ignore her warning when she tells you to not to read the first 2 chapters of the next installment, which I did and boy do I wish I didn't. That turned into a major cliffhanger!!!!), detailed intros to all the characters that takes up a majority of the first half of the book, and one sexy ass guy. But one you get the jist of everybody in the book the story takes off and makes you glued, needing to know what the hell is going to happen. Another pro of this book is it doesn't have a whiney, needy, stalkerish, love at first sight heroine. She was actually intelligent and tries to kick ass if she needs to. Thank God!!!!! I can't stand helpless girls that need the boys to do everything in books. It's almost an insult to females everywhere that in order to catch a sexy Seth from the past you have to have him do everything. Don't worry though this girl,Mari, is definitely not like that. The only thing bad I'd have to say about this book is that it took a while for the main story line to get started. Not that I didn't love what happened in the mean time, it's just the whole being in the wrong time part was a page turner and it ended shortly after it started. But I'll chop that up to being that this is a series of books and being the first book it had alot to describe before going into the good part. All in all though loved the start and can't wait for so much more!!!! ...more I loved this book. The author writes in a beautiful way that entraps you in the story so much that you feel a part of this world. I loved the relationship developing between Mari and Seth. To me the relationship developed well at an even pace with the expected ups and downs. I loved the characters in this book. Seth Ty and Dee had distinct characters and I loved the friendship they had. Mari and her best girl friend Sim. I liked how the relationship grew between Mari and Sim. I particularly loved I loved this book. The author writes in a beautiful way that entraps you in the story so much that you feel a part of this world. I loved the relationship developing between Mari and Seth. To me the relationship developed well at an even pace with the expected ups and downs. I loved the characters in this book. Seth Ty and Dee had distinct characters and I loved the friendship they had. Mari and her best girl friend Sim. I liked how the relationship grew between Mari and Sim. I particularly loved how Seth had to fight hard to win Mari and that he never gave up and becomes her Knight in shining armour at one stage. I liked the idea of time travel and the idea the author had of making the memories of those who travelled disappear when they returned to their own time except for those closely assciated with them. Very clever concept and not your average story line. It was much better than average. After reading this story I feel quite lost and really need the next book. This has to be one of my very favorite books. Thank you! ...more Given ARC copy in exchange for a honest review.... I seriously LOVED this story,especially for it being a time travel type as I usually don't read them because I get confused, lol... I found myself hooked from the beginning all the way through the end... I won't go into many details about the story as I hate to think of spoilers so I'll put it this way: It was a well written story with some pretty strong characters. At times I did think Sim was going to be play a part in the time travel role. I thi Given ARC copy in exchange for a honest review.... I seriously LOVED this story,especially for it being a time travel type as I usually don't read them because I get confused, lol... I found myself hooked from the beginning all the way through the end... I won't go into many details about the story as I hate to think of spoilers so I'll put it this way: It was a well written story with some pretty strong characters. At times I did think Sim was going to be play a part in the time travel role. I think it had a great story line to where I didn't even find myself confused when it came to the time travel explanations. I think it was because it kept it more in our time, till the end. :) I am really looking forward to reading book 2 to find out where they end up, I didn't want to read the sneak peak! GREAT READ! ...more \u201cIf I took you back, I\u2019d be condemning you to that life. You deserve more.\u201d \u201cSeth, a life with you\u2019d be all I needed. The rest I can deal with then. I\u2019m tougher than I look.\u201d \u201cAnd more delicate than you\u2019ll ever admit\u201d I\u2019d just like to profess my undying love for B. Kristin McMichael. I love love love love your words, your stories, and your absolute kindness. Seriously, B. Kristin is just a permanent staple of my book life. I\u2019ve read each of her works, and loved every single one of them. I get so ex \u201cIf I took you back, I\u2019d be condemning you to that life. You deserve more.\u201d \u201cSeth, a life with you\u2019d be all I needed. The rest I can deal with then. I\u2019m tougher than I look.\u201d \u201cAnd more delicate than you\u2019ll ever admit\u201d I\u2019d just like to profess my undying love for B. Kristin McMichael. I love love love love your words, your stories, and your absolute kindness. Seriously, B. Kristin is just a permanent staple of my book life. I\u2019ve read each of her works, and loved every single one of them. I get so excited when I find out she\u2019s releasing a new book that I literally jump up and down squee\u2019ing. Now I love a lot of authors, because their words can change my world, but B. Kristin has something really special. I hope to be able to keep telling her this as she continues to write, because as long as she is writing, I will be reading. I have to admit, not too many YA authors can hold my interest anymore. It\u2019s not their fault either, but B. Kristin is an author that will stand out in my mind forever. Never will I hesitate to read a work of art from her. Carnelian is more of a New Adult book rather than a YA book. The main characters of Seth and Mari are on a journey to a maximum collision with both their worlds. Mari went to college hoping to start over. Mari does pretty well on her own until she catches the eye of Seth. Mari has heard stories of Seth\u2019s conquests but can\u2019t help but be attracted to the obnoxiously exotic superstar football player. Mari makes it very clear that she will not become his next conquest when Seth practically claims her as his. The story progresses into a beautiful and dynamic love story that was literally meant to be. Mari is the epitome of beauty, even though she doesn\u2019t see it for herself. She is strong, intelligent, and skeptical. This stunning red head turns heads everywhere she goes and even catches the hatred from the \u201cpopular\u201d crowd at the college. Mari actually becomes friends with Seth\u2019s brother Ty, who she tries to get to save her from his brother Seth\u2019s conquests. To no avail will Seth stop. Seth is determined that he has found the one reason that he was brought into this world\u2026 and it\u2019s Mari. Seth has the charm, looks, and soul to make anyone swoon. I absolutely loved the characters and the growth of them. Ty and Sim (Mari\u2019s room-mate and best friend) are the most adorable secondary characters and are amazingly supporting tributes to the story. Carnelian will keep you wanting more from the beginning to the end. I could not put this down, you simply get entranced and brought into this world that you just don\u2019t want to be released from. I\u2019m not a big fan of time-travel novels, since I\u2019ll admit it\u2026 I tend to get confused. In no way was I ever confused with this novel, and it honestly didn\u2019t even real feel all that \u201ctime-travelery\u201d. For most of the story you\u2019re in the here and now, but get short throw backs of historic times. The destiny of the two main characters is absolutely enchanting. One again, B. Kristin McMichael has created a masterpiece. I\u2019m always left feeling refreshed from the everyday normal reads. With Carnelian you\u2019re left wanting more, but you\u2019re satisfied with where it leaves off. I absolutely can\u2019t wait until the next installment of this series, and hope it comes sooner than later! I could go on and on bout how much I loved this book, but I really think you should just get to reading it! As always, B. Kristin \u2013 I adore you. Your words are spectacular and always leave me speechless. ...more I received this book for free from Goodreads First Reads in exchange for an honest review. This is going to be brutal. Before I even begin on the actual story, let's talk about the grammar. There are many, many mistakes throughout the book, including- but not limited to- typos. I can forgive one or two mistakes, but an editor would have been beneficial to this book. To point out some of the more obvious flaws: Page 68, \"Sim led the way to the second pool and the only course I: the log run.\" There is I received this book for free from Goodreads First Reads in exchange for an honest review. This is going to be brutal. Before I even begin on the actual story, let's talk about the grammar. There are many, many mistakes throughout the book, including- but not limited to- typos. I can forgive one or two mistakes, but an editor would have been beneficial to this book. To point out some of the more obvious flaws: Page 68, \"Sim led the way to the second pool and the only course I: the log run.\" There is an abandoned \"I\". Okay, I can understand that, backspacing can sometimes leave things. That's fine. Page 75, \"... always cheering and slapping each other like guys' guys...\" I have yet to discover what a guys' guy is. Page 77, \"I sat down across from him watched him pull out the food.\" The \"and\" is missing from this sentence. Such errors are scattered about the book, and I didn't bother with trying to remember them all, but there was one instance where the narrative switched tense mid-sentence, which was kind of distracting. The writing style was... OK. The descriptions were lacking, and character introductions were awkward. What does Miller look like? Who knows! (And that's another thing- Miller is gay. I don't agree with homosexuality. Plus, he was just plain irritating.) The characters were flat, and typical. (Ty was the only one I liked, and even he was stereotyped.) And on a side note, it seemed like the plot was hardly mentioned, at all, whatsoever; and it was a bit disappointing that the romance was established so quickly (like most teen romance novels). Anyway; The cover is beautiful, and I really should have known better. Don't judge a book by its cover. The plot was interesting, especially since I love time travel and ancient Egypt, and getting two in one was pretty exciting. I wish I could say that the story was good, but unfortunately, short of a total re-write, I don't see that happening. Actual storyline: Mari goes to college, and on the first day a hot guy literally falls into her lap. She overhears him talking to his friends/brothers about his past 23 girlfriends, and spends the rest of the story whining about how she \"WILL NOT BE NUMBER TWENTY-FOUR\" . The entire storyline revolves around Seth (Mr. Hot-Guy), chasing Mari as she internally monologues about how her last boyfriend hurt her, without ever telling us what went down. Soon, after a ton of drama, they get together. Surprise! Anyway, there are cuddles and smooches, and later we learn that Seth is really Seti, and he's from ancient Egypt, sent to the 21st century by a goddess to find and woo Mari. Mission accomplished . But the poor couple are not destined to be! Although, I'm pretty sure the goddess said that they were? But whatever, it's your story. (view spoiler) [After, I don't know, two months(?) Seti gets sent back to Egypt, and Mari is heartbroken. She finds a way to go get him back, and succeeds in travelling through time because her mom is an ancient Egyptian princess or something, and thus she can do these things. Right, so, she gets there, gets engaged to Seti, kidnapped, saved, and then goes back to the 21st century, with Seti and Ty (before mentioned brother/friend/slave) in tow. ( And this all happens within the last three chapters. ) (hide spoiler) ] Also, Mari has the IQ of a parsnip. But yeah, what I'm getting at is that the concept is intriguing, but the story itself is... not. ...more I revived a copy of this book for a honest review. I have to start off by saying that I enjoyed this book. The 3 stars is just my option on the book and dose not mean the book wasn't awesome. I love Mari and Seth, as people, but Seth didn't seem,,,, as strong as I wanted him to. Mari wasn't a bad h either. There love was quick and sweet, from the past to the future. I don't want to give too my away but I feel the past was the important fact about this book and wish we would have got more of it, m I revived a copy of this book for a honest review. I have to start off by saying that I enjoyed this book. The 3 stars is just my option on the book and dose not mean the book wasn't awesome. I love Mari and Seth, as people, but Seth didn't seem,,,, as strong as I wanted him to. Mari wasn't a bad h either. There love was quick and sweet, from the past to the future. I don't want to give too my away but I feel the past was the important fact about this book and wish we would have got more of it, maybe some more of mari's mom. The first half dragged for me, I want to stop a few time but kept wondering, the whole crush week was cool and refreshing. I didn't like the slow build but that lost a star, and also it was hard to connect with Seth at times, duel POV would have been amazing. All that being said I will read book 2 because the second. Half was awesome ad worth seeing how it turns out. I have some theory's on what might happen. One thought is crazy but I kinda hope it's right ...more *I was given this book from a goodreads club for a honest review* So what I thought of this book, well I obviously LOVED it since I gave it a 5 stars. And seriously I loved it a lot. The book was very fast paced and everything was told and explained so well that I never had to stop and try to figure out what's the heck the author is talking about. This book was mostly about romance and fate and even though sometimes it was cheesy, that cheesy part turned adorable for me. As for the writing, it wa *I was given this book from a goodreads club for a honest review* So what I thought of this book, well I obviously LOVED it since I gave it a 5 stars. And seriously I loved it a lot. The book was very fast paced and everything was told and explained so well that I never had to stop and try to figure out what's the heck the author is talking about. This book was mostly about romance and fate and even though sometimes it was cheesy, that cheesy part turned adorable for me. As for the writing, it was pretty generic but the plot and the characters made up for it. I definitely recommend this book to those who love a quick and fun read about romance and friendship and time traveling. I definitely enjoyed this book much more than I thought I would and it definitely is a solid 5 stars in my opinion. ...more I received a free e-copy of this book by the author in exchange of an honest review. I have so many thoughts about this book I can't even begin to process them all! First off, this story was AMAZING!!!!! I had so many expectations for this book and I'm happy to say it didn't let me down. Carnelian is a book full of romance, time-travel, secrets, mind-blowing moments and unexpected twists! I read this book as slowly as I could because I just didn't want it to end! I found myself hooked since chapte I received a free e-copy of this book by the author in exchange of an honest review. I have so many thoughts about this book I can't even begin to process them all! First off, this story was AMAZING!!!!! I had so many expectations for this book and I'm happy to say it didn't let me down. Carnelian is a book full of romance, time-travel, secrets, mind-blowing moments and unexpected twists! I read this book as slowly as I could because I just didn't want it to end! I found myself hooked since chapter one and it was something I just wanted to stay with as long as I could. I LOVED THE STORY! I really liked the characters. But most of all, I LOVED SETH SANGRE! I won't be calm until I read Chrysoprase (book #2) because this cliffhanger just left me wanting for a whole lot more and oh God! This author really knows what she's doing. I LOVED IT. ...more I was giving this book free from LoP in return for a honest review: This was a extraordinary novel, it had all the components of a great story. The suspense, romance, and overall genius of the plot just blew me away. I give this book a 4.5 because everything from the writing to the originality was superior! Yet I felt there was some lacking in the relationship, the \"love\" that the main character said she felt just didn't feel authentic. Though I love their witty, and adorable conversations, I re I was giving this book free from LoP in return for a honest review: This was a extraordinary novel, it had all the components of a great story. The suspense, romance, and overall genius of the plot just blew me away. I give this book a 4.5 because everything from the writing to the originality was superior! Yet I felt there was some lacking in the relationship, the \"love\" that the main character said she felt just didn't feel authentic. Though I love their witty, and adorable conversations, I really wish there was more. But with that said this was a overall AWESOME book. You will be sure to love it!! But enough of what I think, try it out for yourself, I promise you will fall in love with this story, it characters, and the author! I really cannot wait to read the next book in this series I truly liked this book ...more I have read and enjoyed other books by Kristin McMichael (Blue Eyes Trilogy and To Stand Beside Her) and have come to expect a fun and engaging romance. This one did not disappoint--it was everything I have come to expect from Kristin McMichael. One thing I loved about this book was that the heroine, Mari was no pushover. She had her own athletic skills and was not completely helpless, even if Seth, the main man, had to rescue her, once. It's a great story, starting with Mari going off to colleg I have read and enjoyed other books by Kristin McMichael (Blue Eyes Trilogy and To Stand Beside Her) and have come to expect a fun and engaging romance. This one did not disappoint--it was everything I have come to expect from Kristin McMichael. One thing I loved about this book was that the heroine, Mari was no pushover. She had her own athletic skills and was not completely helpless, even if Seth, the main man, had to rescue her, once. It's a great story, starting with Mari going off to college and living away from her mom and grandfather for the first time. She meets Seth at school and something about him doesn't add up. Without spoilers, Mari is a fun and engaging heroine that I couldn't help but root for. If you want a fun, easy romance, this is the perfect book for you. ...more I loved this book. Its a type of paranormal that I've never come across. Mari and Seth meet at college where he hits on her and she turns him down. Actually she refers to him as a player, repeatly (almost to the point of annoying). Everytime he almosts wins her over his ex gets in the way. When him and his 2 brothers save her one night she begins to realize that something isn't quite normal with them. The story that follows is amazing and original. The ending is a little bit of a cliffhanger but i I loved this book. Its a type of paranormal that I've never come across. Mari and Seth meet at college where he hits on her and she turns him down. Actually she refers to him as a player, repeatly (almost to the point of annoying). Everytime he almosts wins her over his ex gets in the way. When him and his 2 brothers save her one night she begins to realize that something isn't quite normal with them. The story that follows is amazing and original. The ending is a little bit of a cliffhanger but it includes the first few pages of the sequel. Dont read them its a even big cliffhanger. The author even had warning but did I listen? I was given an ecopy by the author in exchange for a honest review. Thank you. ...more Full review can be found at: http://thegirlbookaholic.blogspot.com... Not vampires, aliens, werewolves, or mutants but something completely different!! Three time travelers aided by a Goddess in search of a girl who will help them save their warring nation!! Can you say super awesomely original!?!? Marcella and Seth's relationship starts out a little rocky. She doesn't want to be involved with him because she sees him as a player; however, this doesn't deter Seth. Seth starts out as the player li Full review can be found at: http://thegirlbookaholic.blogspot.com... Not vampires, aliens, werewolves, or mutants but something completely different!! Three time travelers aided by a Goddess in search of a girl who will help them save their warring nation!! Can you say super awesomely original!?!? Marcella and Seth's relationship starts out a little rocky. She doesn't want to be involved with him because she sees him as a player; however, this doesn't deter Seth. Seth starts out as the player like guy but he sooooo isn't like that! \"You'll never be anything less than the love of my life.\"-Seth!! I absolutely loved the book because it had time travel, humor, romance, and magic!!! ...more Loved this time traveling story. A bit slow in spots but I am eager to read the next book in the series. I received this book as a free read from Netgalley in exchange for my honest opinion. I was given this book in exchange for an honest review I'm not gunna lie, I'm quite disappointed with how this book turned out and I honestly don't know why these \"Honest\" reviews have given such a high rating? And I'm here feeling generous giving it a 3 when I feel more like giving it a 2.5.. Don't get me wrong, it was a good book and I thought the concept of the book seemed really interesting as I haven't read a book like this before. I mean, I've read the time travellers wife but nothing with I was given this book in exchange for an honest review I'm not gunna lie, I'm quite disappointed with how this book turned out and I honestly don't know why these \"Honest\" reviews have given such a high rating? And I'm here feeling generous giving it a 3 when I feel more like giving it a 2.5.. Don't get me wrong, it was a good book and I thought the concept of the book seemed really interesting as I haven't read a book like this before. I mean, I've read the time travellers wife but nothing with time children coming from different past times. I thought it sounded like a good read. And it was. At the beginning... I thought the first few chapters were really good. I was reading it thinking, \"This is exactly what I need! An easy read with a smart girl who seems hell bent on trying to resist the hot guys charm but falling for him anyway\". (I was in a soppy mood while starting). I just fancied a bit of love at first sight, butterflies, and so on.. So the beginning of how they met was kind of perfect. The hot guy literally fell into her lap. I mean, isn't that what the majority of girls dream scenario is? And I, for one, and not normally so cliche, but I was feeling it. The book caught me on a good day. The other characters were all individual with their personalities. I didn't really get to know Dee. Even at the end when he was being sweet and heroic, I feel like it was overlooked because I didn't get to know him as a character at all. I understand he was meant to be reserved character, but I feel like I didn't get to know him at all. I thought Ty was a really good character. He was fun and loveable. Which made him being a slave even more horrible because I felt like he was such a happy, chatty person to then have to be silenced. Only flaw, I don't understand why he's wanting to go back to that life? His opinion should have been mentioned. Sim seemed like the girl version of Ty. Up for a good laugh. Basically what every teenage girl acts like when going off to college. I feel like Mari should have been given some of Sims traits. I'm a bit fed up with every teen girl in these books to be nerdy, book worms who don't like to have fun. It's boring to read people! And not to mention unoriginal. I feel the main problem for me with the book was that Mari was turning into a stalker. (In my eyes). I felt like it was a bit too clingy. I understand that he disappeared out of nowhere and it was unexpected, but I felt like she was going a bit crazy with her need to be with him.. I felt like it was worse than when Edward left Bella. I mean, even she distracted herself with Jacob. Actually, scratch that! My MAIN PROBLEM was, and the fact I gave it such a low rating, was because I felt like the story itself was rushed. I feel like the author had so much she wanted to include, that when she realised she was halfway through writing the book, she realised she had to jam all of her ideas and the story line in the last half of the book that I just feel cheated on missing the details of some of the plots. I mean, I swear it took Mari one chapter to travel to the past, meet Seth, meet his dad, become a princess, get engaged, get kidnapped, and travel to the future again. Like, seriously?! Honestly, i can't even describe how rushed this book was. I felt like there were pointless bits added and not enough description where I wanted it. The last half of the book was beyond a joke. It was more like reading bulletpoints of how the story goes. It was too crammed. I can't stress that enough. This book should have been about trying to get back to the past and then the second book about the past and then the 3rd about how the second ones starting. That's what I honestly think. I would have made the series so much better. I doubt I'm going to read the next one unless the pace slows down a fraction. Seriously. If there's anything to take away from my review, it's to plot your story, write an order of which your going to put it in, and pace it. Even if it means not being able to fit everything in that you wanted too, it will improve the detail and quality of the book a lot. Overall, a good concept, plot and settings were interesting, a disappointing read, too faced pace. I hope the pace of the second book improves. I feel like I'm being too mean and blunt. But it's because this book could have had great potential!!! Second times a try.. ...more *This was given to me through a book tour for an honest review* Okay, so I just thought this book was okay. I liked the storyline and to the most extent, the characters, but I had issues with how the words just didn't really flow as I read them. Mari is just starting college (alone, I might say), and so she is expecting for new things to happen, but not all of the things are exactly what she expects. Seth. Seth and his brothers are from Ancient Egypt and he was sent to Mari's time to look for someo *This was given to me through a book tour for an honest review* Okay, so I just thought this book was okay. I liked the storyline and to the most extent, the characters, but I had issues with how the words just didn't really flow as I read them. Mari is just starting college (alone, I might say), and so she is expecting for new things to happen, but not all of the things are exactly what she expects. Seth. Seth and his brothers are from Ancient Egypt and he was sent to Mari's time to look for someone special, according to his goddess. He has been searching for years until he comes across Mari, whom he's sure is the one. Mari is his soul mate, and she is the one that he has been sent to find. The thing is that they aren't quite sure why she was needed and what role she actually plays in the scheme of history. But, what will happen to Seth? Will he simply go back to his own time in Ancient Egypt? Will Mari come along for the ride? So, as I said before, the flow of the didn't really, well, flow. It seemed like sentences could've been maid into on instead of two (they would've made more sense together, but they are still technically correct while apart) and some of the sentences were unnecessary to the plot line, just added words that didn't really go. Some of the wording of Mari's-- thoughts, I guess?-- was kind of awkward. I'm exactly her age and an overachiever (like her) and I'm sure my thoughts are so... formal and, I guess awkward (if that explains it?). Another thing: I don't feel like Mari's character was developed enough by the point that Seth, the love interest, gets introduced into the book. I just wished we had known more about her and her personality than what we got when reading the first few pages of the chapter. But, yeah, the saving grace, and the main thing that kept this book in 3 star range, was the storyline. I liked how it went and I wish more books did a spin on Ancient Egypt and soul mates (although soul mates don't tend to go hand-in-hand with Egyptian mythology). I also found some kinship with Mari's character in that we're they same age and are both freshmen in college (well, was now that I've officially finished my first year). That sort of helped me get through some of the parts in the story that i began to get stuck on, like the whole first day there and stuff. I remembered that, yes, I did feel a little anxious and wondered if anybody was staring at me, though they most likely were feeling the same anxiety that I felt. Oh, and I have a bone to pick: I have a country accent (hello, Tennessee), yet I go to a school 8 hours north of here (in Cleveland Ohio, in fact) and I almost went to a small, liberal arts college in Minnesota. Just because I'm from the South doesn't mean I wouldn't like to go to small colleges in the North. We're not still divided, y'know. (No offense to the author intended, of course). ...more First and foremost let me begin by stating that I received a free copy of the book from the author in exchange for my honest review. Thank you I really enjoy the story of Carnelian. The first thing that intrigued me about this book was the name, Carnelian. I briefly read the authors summary and decided that it would be an interesting read. I was hoping the author could deliver an exciting story, which she did. I know the storyline is similar to many other written since the beginning of time, boy First and foremost let me begin by stating that I received a free copy of the book from the author in exchange for my honest review. Thank you I really enjoy the story of Carnelian. The first thing that intrigued me about this book was the name, Carnelian. I briefly read the authors summary and decided that it would be an interesting read. I was hoping the author could deliver an exciting story, which she did. I know the storyline is similar to many other written since the beginning of time, boy meets girl \u2013 they fall in love \u2013 and face hardships to prove their love, however Kristin does an amazing job of making it fresh and endearing. Kristin makes you fall in love with Seth in the first few chapters and leaves you hoping for a happy ending. Mari is a strong minded person who refuses to be your stereotype college girl that falls in love with the hot quarterback. Is a great introduction to a great love story with a happy ending, I hope. *******************Spoiler Warning*************************************** I usually start with the items of the book I love and then moved to the items I did not quite like. However with this book there are so few items didn\u2019t like I decided to start with them. I mainly didn\u2019t like Mari\u2019s treatment of Sim, she was supposed to be her best-friend and she left her to fend for herself with the \u201cBarbies\u201d. I know she was upset about the little time she had with Seth but that did not give her the right to behave like that. Also would have liked if the author provided us with little things that change as a result of Mari and Seth traveling through time. That\u2019s pretty much the things I did not like, told you not many. As to the things I really like, which are too many to list but I will try to summarize. I really enjoy how Kristin gave you small things, here and there but did not give away the ending. I really hate when you know what\u2019s going to happen at the end of the book in chapter 2. I knew that Mari would be special, especially since her father was never in her life and her mother and grandfather had been so protective of her. So my thoughts were that her father must have been a time traveler, to find out it was her mother who had made that leap was exciting. I did always guess that her lineage would be link to the pharaohs. I can\u2019t wait to find out who her father is or was. One of my favorite parts of the books was Seth\u2019s introduction to Mari. It was so beautiful and simple. I would love if the author could provide Seth\u2019s POV for their meeting. I want to know what he was feeling or thinking at that moment. And why oh why would he just fall asleep on her lap. I am also curious to find out about their future in the present time and what her mom will say when she finally meets Seth. She will most likely see his resemblance to the general she was escorted by all those years ago. Awaiting the next book\u2026. Great beginning ...more ( Although I received this book for review my review is still 100% honest.) When I read the synopsis for this book I was a little confused on weather I would like it or not. Turns out that I didn't like. I loved it ! I'm not a very big reader of \"girl falling in love with a guy kind of story.\"This one had a really great twist to it, I found myself being rather curious to find out what was going to happen next. While this book has a lot of drama with-in it, it is well worth it due to the mystery w ( Although I received this book for review my review is still 100% honest.) When I read the synopsis for this book I was a little confused on weather I would like it or not. Turns out that I didn't like. I loved it ! I'm not a very big reader of \"girl falling in love with a guy kind of story.\"This one had a really great twist to it, I found myself being rather curious to find out what was going to happen next. While this book has a lot of drama with-in it, it is well worth it due to the mystery within this read. Our main character is a girl named Mari who is going off to college trying to get her next step in life started. All to quickly she catches the eye of the guy who all the girls want, star quarter back, Seth. She tries to avoid him as much as possible because he is a player who just wants her to be his number 24. I was very amused with her thinking through this book. I really like her character that she could stick up for herself and wasn't afraid to speak her mind. As for Seth well he truly was a mystery through half of this book. He chased after Mari after they first met, but you soon find out that there really is something rather sweet about him. He soon starts protecting Mari from any harm that comes her way. I found him to be a rather interesting character, giving off mixed feelings. First hes sweet then hes making out with his ex, making you want to yell at him yourself. Mari and Seth's romantic life is a tortured one separated through time. They love each other but at any moment he can disappear from Mari's life forever. I found them to be really cute together and I was happy that they finally got things to work out. This romance pulled on my heart strings more than once. I just want them to freaking be together and live happily ever after! Seth has brothers who help the story move along. There names are Dee and Ty. Well I didn't really like Dee through out most of the book. He was often brooding around and never really wanted anything to do with Mari. I have to say from finishing the book my feeling for him have changed. Then there is Ty, hes like an older brother to Mari and watches out for her. He is really sweet and caring and often checks up on her. I think that his character was really fun and I enjoyed reading the conversations between Ty and Mari. This book was a really good read. I would say that if you have a problem with drama then maybe this wouldn't be the book for you. I think that it wasn't to terrible though just gave the story some tense moments. I really enjoyed the storyline of this book and it almost made me cry a few times. Other than that it was a fun read and rather hard to put down. This book would be worth a read because it is a good love story. I really want to read the next book, but it isn't out yet! ...more At first Mari comes across as quite normal, fairly intelligent and kind of pretty, but other than that normal. Which was fine, but it felt a tiny bit stereotypical because she was also so determined not to go out with some player and add to their list of \"conquests\". The player in question is Seth Sangre. Star quarterback and a drop-dead gorgeous sophomore, he's an extremely desirable guy on campus, especially with the girls. Going into the book we also know that he's a bit different although we At first Mari comes across as quite normal, fairly intelligent and kind of pretty, but other than that normal. Which was fine, but it felt a tiny bit stereotypical because she was also so determined not to go out with some player and add to their list of \"conquests\". The player in question is Seth Sangre. Star quarterback and a drop-dead gorgeous sophomore, he's an extremely desirable guy on campus, especially with the girls. Going into the book we also know that he's a bit different although we're not sure how. The characters didn't make a huge impression on me in the first half of the book. Mari was described as fairly normal but it turns out that she's pretty much good at everything and I mean everything. Seth was the same - perfect at everything. Due to Seth's reputation Mari does her best to avoid him but they keep getting thrown together, along with his brother Ty. Ty was a great character and in the beginning was my favourite. He was funny and had the whole protective brother vibe going, which is always nice in a book. Despite Mari's best attempts she begins falling for Seth. He's just so nice and sweet - not at all like she thought a jock would be. However, one thing that I found really strange was that Seth kept kissing his ex-girlfriend. He said that she kept kissing him and wouldn't leave him alone - which was true - but I found it strange that he couldn't stop her from kissing him. I don't know, it was a bit strange. The writing was also a bit awkward in the first half and sometimes I found the moments slightly cheesy. But even with all this criticism, I still enjoyed Carnelian. I grew to really like the characters, especially when Mari stopped trying to avoid him. This is where the fantasy aspect to the book comes in. I don't want to give too much away but the author put a great twist in. It was a combination of time travel and gods and goddesses which I don't think I've read about before; it worked really well. In the end, this book also made me cry so I guess that I did attach to the characters enough. Seth was seriously sweet and I think he was presented really well. I didn't speak like a normal 20-year old guy - because he wasn't - so this was good. I also cried along with Mari in the end when something happened which of course I won't explain because of spoilers ;) Overall it was a good read - not my favourite but still enjoyable, and I'm looking forward to reading the next one. NA (this was a clean NA read) 3.5 stars *Thank you to B. Kristin McMichael for providing me with a complimentary copy of the book! ...more<---C>B. Kristin McMichael</---C>", "Title": "Carnelian"},
