{"Comments": "Although there is no beauty in despair, this book has beauty in sharing the despair of Lucy with the reader. I ached for Lucy, I yearned for her to find Will in whatever year she landed. I felt regret for her when she reawakened in her own time. A time of bullies, hatred, and cruelty. Lucy walked that fine line of believing that life was no longer worth living and wanting to live a life worth living. My heart broke every time someone was cruel and vicious to her.<---F> This book made me feel</---F>. And feel Although there is no beauty in despair, this book has beauty in sharing the despair of Lucy with the reader. I ached for Lucy, I yearned for her to find Will in whatever year she landed. I felt regret for her when she reawakened in her own time. A time of bullies, hatred, and cruelty. Lucy walked that fine line of believing that life was no longer worth living and wanting to live a life worth living. My heart broke every time someone was cruel and vicious to her. This book made me feel. And feel deeply,<---M> yet through it all</---M>, there was this glimmer of hope. this higher purpose calling out to her in every episode of her sleeping while living in a different time. The characters were so well written that I could envision the animosity that Lucy lived with on a daily basis. I could remember that girl that didn't quite fit in school and was given a mean nickname. I once again remembered the sympathy I felt and the helplessness of the situation. There are some very tough subjects broached in this book and they are handled with sensitivity and realism. The realism was tangible. This book is for any age group. The story is worth hearing and remembering the message that there is always a ray of hope. Sometimes it is a very slight and narrow ray of hope, but it is there, just try to hold on. ...more This is a well-written, passionate book about love, mental illness and the best and worst of human behaviour on a sensitive young mind. Essentially the story of a high school girl, Lucy, the book charts her meetings with her best friend Will at different periods of history (<---B>birth of humankind, medieval England, etc</---B>). All the while Lucy is lying in a coma after attempting suicide and we - like Lucys family and the medical establishment in the real world are never quite sure what tricks Lucys mind This is a well-written, passionate book about love, mental illness and the best and worst of human behaviour on a sensitive young mind. Essentially the story of a high school girl, Lucy, the book charts her meetings with her best friend Will at different periods of history (birth of humankind, medieval England, etc). All the while Lucy is lying in a coma after attempting suicide and we - like Lucy\u00b4s family and the medical establishment in the \u00b4real world\u00b4 are never quite sure what tricks Lucy\u00b4s mind is playing on her. There\u00b4s great realism for me in the school scenes: Lucy suffers some brutal bullying from her schoolmates and it\u00b4s pretty obvious that Ms Moyes has her finger right on the pulse when it comes to describing Lucy\u00b4s existence and why she feels as she does. Her homelife is equally well-drawn and throughout the novel the author is in control of the language and story. You feel like you\u00b4re in the company of a good writer with something to say, which is refreshing: you feel like the author feels the book is important and so you must. This is a good book to anyone, Young Adult or otherwise, who is interested in the travails of a sensitive mind in the modern world, and the weaving in of the historical elements makes it interesting too for anyone who likes a bit of history, as I do. For those wondering if Lucy wakes, if Will exists or how the whole thing ties together - grab a copy now and satisfy your curiosity. ...more I was truly moved by <---A>Nikki Moyes</---A>' \"<+++>If I Wake</+++>.\" I began reading this book as a passenger on a 12 hour road trip and once I started, I was immediately pulled into the story and into Lucy's world. It made the otherwise long drive fly by. The main character's struggles were vividly portrayed and heartbreaking in a way that elicited sympathy from the reader without feeling forced or contrived. I found myself shedding tears at times in behalf of Lucy and her experiences. The world building was excellen I was truly moved by Nikki Moyes' \"<+++>If I Wake</+++>.\" I began reading this book as a passenger on a 12 hour road trip and once I started, I was immediately pulled into the story and into Lucy's world. It made the otherwise long drive fly by. The main character's struggles were vividly portrayed and heartbreaking in a way that elicited sympathy from the reader without feeling forced or contrived. I found myself shedding tears at times in behalf of Lucy and her experiences. The world building was excellent and well-researched while the writing was beautiful and lacked the choppy awkwardness that sometimes makes a showing in debut novels. Ms. Moyes touched on some difficult young adult issues such as bullying and suicide in a way that will reach many different readers and personalities as well as keep them thoroughly engaged if they take the time to read her book. All in all, I found this to be a skillfully written, compelling novel with a powerful message. For parents: There is some strong language in the book but it is not excessive. While I tend to be a bit prudish about such things and personally prefer to avoid it when I read, I don't think the few instances of language were unreasonable given the serious nature of the story, the subject matter, and some of the situations the main character faces. ...more What a deep and meaningful book this is. It had so many components that I loved. There was meeting Will in different places and times all the way back to before what we consider civilization. It was wonderfully paced and kept me reading wanting to know more about this unique couple and their connection. If you are a history buff like me, you will love this too. It makes for an amazing tale. A Wake-Up Call! Lucy, aka Lucy Janette Phillips, or LJ pivots from the memory she retains of turning eleven, inviting her classmates to a birthday party no one attends, and ridiculed about it. Over the years, school is a living hell. The only relief forthcoming is when Lucy sleeps for days at a time and dreams. In each of her dreams she reconnects with Will as destiny aligns their paths throughout different times in history. Henceforth, up until the age of seventeen, the constant barrage of bein A Wake-Up Call! Lucy, aka Lucy Janette Phillips, or LJ pivots from the memory she retains of turning eleven, inviting her classmates to a birthday party no one attends, and ridiculed about it. Over the years, school is a living hell. The only relief forthcoming is when Lucy sleeps for days at a time and dreams. In each of her dreams she reconnects with Will as destiny aligns their paths throughout different times in history. Henceforth, up until the age of seventeen, the constant barrage of being taunted, bullied, and ostracized takes its toll on Lucy\u2019s self-esteem. Such despair is unmitigated by a weak and ineffective mother who hasn\u2019t the vaguest idea of the daily trauma Lucy undergoes at school. As Lucy\u2019s reality grows bleaker, she contemplates taking her own life. The author effectively allows Lucy to speak her mind from the moment the reader first encounters her in a comatose state on a hospital bed. And, so, the words are plain-spoken without frills or fanfare to get in her way. Every bit of dialogue or introspective thought conveys her pain and suffering: \u201cThe mind does strange things when confronted with sights it doesn\u2019t want to process, sometimes leading to actions that would be deemed inappropriate at any other time.\u201d \u201cA sense of relief settles over me after my decision. Every time I am shoved or tripped or have belongings stolen throughout the school day, I remain calm. There is an end to this. One day, this push will be the last.\u201d Throughout the story, I wanted to know how Lucy ended up in a coma, and fretted over whether or not she would awaken. It is the reader\u2019s quest to find out. The author\u2019s infusion of authentic and intricate details pertaining to historic events in each time travel, dream sequence made me feel like I was there with Lucy. This book is a wake-up call! A call to arms in self-preservation, put forth so succinctly by the author: \u201cStand up for yourself and others. Don\u2019t let bullies succeed, but also know when it is best to run away and fight another day. Be brave. When you\u2019re going through hell, keep going. Don\u2019t stop. Don\u2019t give up. You have to be strong and extremely brave and then one day you will look back on that pain and it will be a memory. It will hurt like hell and feel like it will never end, but it does. Eventually.\u201d ...more 5.0 out of 5 stars A Great Author is born. By richard kiefer on September 3, 2016 Format: Kindle Edition How do I review this book? Well, that's probably the hardest question of all. How about I say I've never seen anything like it before in my life. And coming from an individual educated in literature, formally and otherwise, that's saying something. Brilliant falls show. Five stars? How about ten? How about fifteen? This book doesn't deserve anything less than the eye level shelf of any bookstor 5.0 out of 5 stars A Great Author is born. By richard kiefer on September 3, 2016 Format: Kindle Edition How do I review this book? Well, that's probably the hardest question of all. How about I say I've never seen anything like it before in my life. And coming from an individual educated in literature, formally and otherwise, that's saying something. Brilliant falls show. Five stars? How about ten? How about fifteen? This book doesn't deserve anything less than the eye level shelf of any bookstore. I know Ms. Moyes describes it as YA fiction, but I'd argue that point. I am definitely not a young adult. There's a pain in this book which you seldom see in writing. It's palatable. As if the characters are part of the author herself, from her own past, and maybe that is indeed the case. Focused on bullying, self esteem (or lack thereof) and suicide, it fires on all cylinders across the board. For a first novel, it is nothing short of a miracle. It should be mandatory reading for all kids in high school, and a few adults I can think of as well. All in all, let me just say this. I have never been so thrilled to have experienced the birth of a great author, and a wonderful, joyful, thoughtful book, that I have no doubt whatsoever will soon will become a household name. Comment Looking for voting buttons? Sorry, we don't let customers vote on their own reviews. ...more A great story with a powerful message I am an avid reader and have never read a book like this before. I was enthralled with this world that Nikki created for us, and could not stop reading until I reached the end. Nikki did such a wonderful job building the characters and story, that I was able to submerge myself in this journey with Lucy. My heart ached as I saw her dismal life, insecurities, and sadness when in her present time. I felt crushed when she was disappointed. Then my heart soared whe A great story with a powerful message I am an avid reader and have never read a book like this before. I was enthralled with this world that Nikki created for us, and could not stop reading until I reached the end. Nikki did such a wonderful job building the characters and story, that I was able to submerge myself in this journey with Lucy. My heart ached as I saw her dismal life, insecurities, and sadness when in her present time. I felt crushed when she was disappointed. Then my heart soared when I found she had transported to the past with Will as their destinies continued to intertwine through the years. I kept wondering what was going to happen with Will and why was she transported for such extended periods of time. I really loved how the story came together, and most importantly that she was able to see that life was worth living for. The thing I enjoyed most about this debut novel from Nikki is that she touches on a topic that I feel has always been dismissed or overlooked. As have most people, I too have experienced bullying in my tender years, although on a much smaller scale, and reading this story brought back so many feelings of hopelessness, sadness and despair. I sincerely hope that no young adult ever feels that suicide is the answer as life is beautiful and it is worth the journey. I highly recommend this book, especially for young adults. ...more How do I review this book? Well, that's probably the hardest question of all. How about I say I've never seen anything like it before in my life. And coming from an individual educated in literature, formally and otherwise, that's saying something. Brilliant falls show. Five stars? How about ten? How about fifteen? This book doesn't deserve anything less than the eye level shelf of any bookstore. I know Ms. Moyes describes If I Wake as YA fiction, but I'd argue that point. I am definitely not a y How do I review this book? Well, that's probably the hardest question of all. How about I say I've never seen anything like it before in my life. And coming from an individual educated in literature, formally and otherwise, that's saying something. Brilliant falls show. Five stars? How about ten? How about fifteen? This book doesn't deserve anything less than the eye level shelf of any bookstore. I know Ms. Moyes describes If I Wake as YA fiction, but I'd argue that point. I am definitely not a young adult. There's a pain in this book which you seldom see in writing. It's palatable. As if the characters are part of the author herself, from her own past, and maybe that is indeed the case. Focused on bullying, self esteem (or lack thereof) and suicide, it fires on all cylinders across the board. For a first novel, it is nothing short of a miracle. It should be mandatory reading for all kids in high school, and a few adults I can think of as well. All in all, let me just say this. I have never been so thrilled to have experienced the birth of a great author, and a wonderful, joyful, thoughtful book, that I have no doubt whatsoever will soon will become a household name. ...more After reading the first couple of chapters, I wasn't sure I was going to like this story. It is quite possibly because of my age. I've lived through bullying and looked back at my life and thought, \"Why didn't I just do something or that or deal with it at all.\" Because kids just don't deal with situations that are emotionally damaging. They don't. Not without outside help and support. Nikki writes a very realistic character in Lucy--especially in how she deals with the constant bullying--and one After reading the first couple of chapters, I wasn't sure I was going to like this story. It is quite possibly because of my age. I've lived through bullying and looked back at my life and thought, \"Why didn't I just do something or that or deal with it at all.\" Because kids just don't deal with situations that are emotionally damaging. They don't. Not without outside help and support. Nikki writes a very realistic character in Lucy--especially in how she deals with the constant bullying--and one that I think a lot of teenage girls, especially those being bullied, could relate to. What kept me reading the story was the time travel element. I've always been a sucker for a good time travel story. At first I wasn't quite sure if Lucy's trips through time were real, or just a hurt and confused teenager seeking solace in her dreams. I did want to know why Lucy kept ending up in a coma. What was the catalyst that made that possible? That is one answer that I feel was left from the story. I did find a few grammar and punctuation errors but if you're like me, those can be overlooked because I felt it was a solid and entertaining story that was well worth the read. Star Rating: 4.125 stars out of 5 possible 1) Were the characters believable? \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 - 5 stars 2) Did you like the characters? \u2605\u2605\u2605- 3 stars 3) Does the story move at a good pace? \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 - 4 stars 4) Are there holes in the plot? \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 - 4 stars 5) Is there conflict? \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 - 5 stars 6) Is the punctuation, grammar and spelling proper, with few errors? \u2605\u2605\u2605 - 3 stars 7) Is the POV consistent? \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 - 5 stars 8) Enjoyment of the story overall? \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 - 4 stars ...more An interesting read I read this book over just one day. It is a fascinating story and throws a light on bullying and depression. I would recommend it to anyone e who ius inclined to be a bully. They would learn a lot. 'If I Wake' by Nikki Moyes is a really powerful and confronting book that speaks directly to the issues of bullying, peer pressure and suicide among kids and teens. It's a journey through Lucy's world of despair that is punctuated by moments of joy and hope along the way. Her times of escape are a respite for both Lucy and the reader. As someone who still grieves one of my own senior high students who took her own life just five months ago, I found this really compelling reading. I wept and, at 'If I Wake' by Nikki Moyes is a really powerful and confronting book that speaks directly to the issues of bullying, peer pressure and suicide among kids and teens. It's a journey through Lucy's world of despair that is punctuated by moments of joy and hope along the way. Her times of escape are a respite for both Lucy and the reader. As someone who still grieves one of my own senior high students who took her own life just five months ago, I found this really compelling reading. I wept and, at times, sobbed. I felt angry and defensive, feeling very protective of Lucy and her alternate realities. Lucy isn't flawless; in fact, she's portrayed quite realistically. While she's not perfect, she certainly doesn't deserve the cards she gets dealt by either her peers or her family. \"If I Wake' made me want to reach into the world of the book and change things to give Lucy some hope for her future. To be honest, I wanted to be able to mete justice on some of the characters. This worked very effectively in keeping me hooked right to the end of the book. However, that's not how life works. 'If I Wake' demonstrates that the responsibility lies with those who make life so desperately hard for others, and that their behaviour cannot be excused, regardless of whatever might be going on in their own lives. Eventually, in something of a coup for the author, I was led to experience some compassion for the personal circumstances of some - but only some - of the characters who gave Lucy such a difficult life. This is really a testament to the power of Moyes' writing. I recommend 'If I Wake' for every teen, every parent, and every teacher. I'd love to see it on every school's reading list. Six stars out of five for 'If I Wake'. Don't tell me I can't do that. I was never good at counting. ...more Lucy is a girl who gets bullied at school. Bullied a lot. Especially by four mean girls and their friends. She tries to become as invisible as possible and make it through each day. Most of the time she\u2019s alone, with no friends, and no other family except for a mom who\u2019s always at work. The only joy in life is her imaginary friend Will. Will comes into her life after a traumatic event and she gets to see him each year on her birthday \u2013 but only in her dreams. Will teaches her about family, faith, Lucy is a girl who gets bullied at school. Bullied a lot. Especially by four mean girls and their friends. She tries to become as invisible as possible and make it through each day. Most of the time she\u2019s alone, with no friends, and no other family except for a mom who\u2019s always at work. The only joy in life is her imaginary friend Will. Will comes into her life after a traumatic event and she gets to see him each year on her birthday \u2013 but only in her dreams. Will teaches her about family, faith, bravery, kindness, and love during their adventures in historic events in the distant past. Throughout the book, the reader doesn\u2019t know if Lucy will be alive at the end. The characters in this book are so real, they could be students walking the halls in any school today. The author brilliantly and consistently carries Lucy\u2019s dream family through history starting in the prehistoric past. Each time Lucy goes to see Will in her dreams, they don\u2019t recognize her, but she recognizes them. And each time, Lucy is there to save Will\u2019s life and give up her own. If I Wake delivers a powerful message that will touch the hearts of so many who are being bullied or have been bullied in the past. This book should be required reading for students, parents, and anyone who works with youth. By going through sorrow and joy with Lucy, the reader understands how hurtful and damaging bullying can be, and gains strength to stand up to bullies or stop being one themselves. The ending to the book is outstanding in its unexpected turn of events. The book gives the reader hope if they are being bullied, helping them to see that they are important, even if they don\u2019t feel like it. The book is aimed at the young adult reader, but adults will also be taken in by the story and Lucy\u2019s sarcastic humor: \u201cNo one has ever been excited to see me before, perhaps he thinks I\u2019m someone else.\u201d ...more Lucy has the worst eleventh birthday imaginable, the only saving grace is that night she dreams of a boy named Wu - her first real friend. She lives for awhile with Wu during caveman times and feels a concrete bond with him and his sister. All too soon she is ripped away to her present, where she had been in a coma. Now she looks forward to her birthday every year as it's the only time she can see Wu (or Will as he's now known). Every time they meet Lucy must save Will and his family from some c Lucy has the worst eleventh birthday imaginable, the only saving grace is that night she dreams of a boy named Wu - her first real friend. She lives for awhile with Wu during caveman times and feels a concrete bond with him and his sister. All too soon she is ripped away to her present, where she had been in a coma. Now she looks forward to her birthday every year as it's the only time she can see Wu (or Will as he's now known). Every time they meet Lucy must save Will and his family from some catastrophe, and then comes back to her own sad life waiting for the next visit. As Lucy approaches her seventeenth birthday she begins finding Will more often, and deciding that her current life may no longer be worth living. Can Will help Lucy find a life worth living? When I first began reading this book I was worried it would be similar to Gayle Foreman's \"If I Stay\" - luckily it was very different. It was interesting to read the historical moments from a different perspective, although I did loose a bit of interest when it came to the future storyline. Ms. Moyes did do a good job of tying everything together from the past, present, and future. I would suggest a little editing as I noticed some grammar and punctuation errors. If you're interested in historical romance, I would suggest giving this one a try it's a different take on the genre that's quite enjoyable. ...more I was lucky enough to win this book in a Goodreads giveaway and I loved it. It was not what I was expecting, it was better. I loved how immersed the character got when she awoke in her alternate realities, and I would have loved to have read more of these. The overall story was quite sad and you really felt like you wanted to step in and help Lucy, or read that someone noticed or cared enough to reach out to her. The book left me telling others about it, and I have already lent it to someone els I was lucky enough to win this book in a Goodreads giveaway and I loved it. It was not what I was expecting, it was better. I loved how immersed the character got when she awoke in her alternate realities, and I would have loved to have read more of these. The overall story was quite sad and you really felt like you wanted to step in and help Lucy, or read that someone noticed or cared enough to reach out to her. The book left me telling others about it, and I have already lent it to someone else who was intrigued about the storyline. I hope she likes it as much as I did. I would recommend this book to anyone who has an open mind, and even those who don't, to see if it could open it! I did find the last 'episode' a bit confusing, but it made enough sense for me to get the overall storyline, but that might be because I was in that much of a hurry to find out how it ends I rushed it? Easily a 5 star read, I completed over 2 days. Hope you enjoy it too! ...more I had gotten this book in exchange for a review from the author and must Ii say this story is beautiful in every sense. Lucy, or lu or LJ the main character is called travels to a world every year on her birthday since she was eleven saving wu, will, William or bill all one person. This story held so much emotion, she thought she was useless but she had a purpose she never knew. Being picked on, bullied, losing a friend, nearly committing suicide; she has been through it all and yet she still ha I had gotten this book in exchange for a review from the author and must Ii say this story is beautiful in every sense. Lucy, or lu or LJ the main character is called travels to a world every year on her birthday since she was eleven saving wu, will, William or bill all one person. This story held so much emotion, she thought she was useless but she had a purpose she never knew. Being picked on, bullied, losing a friend, nearly committing suicide; she has been through it all and yet she still had found the strength to save will. This story deserves to be a best seller. It was amazing, well written and it makes you think twice. I love it and will definitely recommend it. ...more UncagedBooks.com This book had a beautiful message to the readers and was a pleasure to read. I myself have felt as Lucy before but realized that this does pass eventually. A story I\u2019m sure everyone can relate to at some point in life. Reviewed by Jennifer Read the full review in the December issue of Uncaged Book Reviews. This is an important book I think everyone should read. I'll admit that I first I thought the storyline was too similar to \"If I Stay,\" but upon reading further I can't believe that thought ever crossed my mind. I enjoyed this book so much more. The plot is truly unique, with plenty of fantasy and adventure, and even more depth, emotion, and power. It will motivate you to be a better person, and to see the good in others. I feel so many things when I think about this book, it's hard to put them This is an important book I think everyone should read. I'll admit that I first I thought the storyline was too similar to \"If I Stay,\" but upon reading further I can't believe that thought ever crossed my mind. I enjoyed this book so much more. The plot is truly unique, with plenty of fantasy and adventure, and even more depth, emotion, and power. It will motivate you to be a better person, and to see the good in others. I feel so many things when I think about this book, it's hard to put them into words in a review. Just get it. Just read it. You'll be glad you did. ...more I've had a couple of people express concern that this book will be similar to 'If I Stay'. It's actually very different from Gayle Forman's book. 'If I Wake' is similar in theme to 'Thirteen Reasons Why' by Jay Asher (without glorifying suicide), or for a better depiction of depression, \"My Heart and Other Black Holes' by Jasmine Warga (without the unrealistic, love saving you from depression). 'If I Wake' also has a magical realism slant to the story, similar to 'Before I Fall' by Lauren Oliver I've had a couple of people express concern that this book will be similar to 'If I Stay'. It's actually very different from Gayle Forman's book. 'If I Wake' is similar in theme to 'Thirteen Reasons Why' by Jay Asher (without glorifying suicide), or for a better depiction of depression, \"My Heart and Other Black Holes' by Jasmine Warga (without the unrealistic, love saving you from depression). 'If I Wake' also has a magical realism slant to the story, similar to 'Before I Fall' by Lauren Oliver or 'Dreamslip' by Brian Caswell. My book has a theme of bullying, depression, and suicide, but first and foremost, it is about the story. I hope you enjoy it :) ...more The scope of this story surprised me, and I truly enjoyed the journeys it took me on. The research was well done, and the characters were three-dimensional and believable. There were times I got slightly confused on the time period, but that served to show the main character\u2019s own confusion in her journey. The journey itself is worthy, and one I\u2019ve been on a couple times myself in my younger days. I truly cried at the end, which holds a very important message to all. This is what depression feels like. A beautifully written book, with a magical twist.<---C>Nikki Moyes</---C>", "Title": "If I Wake"},
