{"Comments": "<+++>We Got Zombies On The Lawn Again, Ma (<---B>Ax Handel's Special Zombie Notebooks Book 1</---B>)</+++>I\u2019ve read several humorous zombie books, but this may be the best. Most refreshing is how the author amusingly chooses to ignore some of the widely held conventions regarding zombies, and to his credit makes it very funny. I love how Smith\u2019s characters are down to earth and easy to relate to. And when they're faced with a zombie epidemic none of them seem to panic but simply take it in stride and roll with it,<---M> especially Ax Handel</---M>, the main character, who hilariously enough seems in his element. I\u2019ve read several humorous zombie books, but this may be the best. Most refreshing is how the author amusingly chooses to ignore some of the widely held conventions regarding zombies, and to his credit makes it very funny. I love how Smith\u2019s characters are down to earth and easy to relate to. And when they're faced with a zombie epidemic none of them seem to panic but simply take it in stride and roll with it, especially Ax Handel, the main character, who hilariously enough seems in his element. I\u2019ll tell you this much: if I had zombies in my yard I\u2019d feel a lot safer with Ax Handel around. ...more I instantly fell in love with this book. The characters are engaging and completely mental. Funniest thing I\u2019ve read in a long time. Ax Handel is not your typical hero, or typical anything. He\u2019s a guy trying to make a buck while his world crumbles. When his girlfriend leaves him and aggravating zombies try to eat him, he does the thing we like to think we\u2019d all do if we were in his shoes: put on a grin and kick ass. Smith challenges the notion that all zombies are alike, and makes a believer out I instantly fell in love with this book. The characters are engaging and completely mental. Funniest thing I\u2019ve read in a long time. Ax Handel is not your typical hero, or typical anything. He\u2019s a guy trying to make a buck while his world crumbles. When his girlfriend leaves him and aggravating zombies try to eat him, he does the thing we like to think we\u2019d all do if we were in his shoes: put on a grin and kick ass. Smith challenges the notion that all zombies are alike, and makes a believer out of you while making you laugh till your ribs ache. ...more This is a very funny book about zombies, but what made me laugh the most were the delightfully humorous exchanges between the main character (Axel) and his estranged, caustic girlfriend, Zenobia. Her bitterness nearly drips off the page, and when Ax playfully provokes her it brings out the worst\u2014and funniest\u2014in her. I don\u2019t know which of Axel\u2019s associations is more dangerous, the one with Zenobia or the one with the zombies. His relationship with his girlfriend is already dangerously strained, b This is a very funny book about zombies, but what made me laugh the most were the delightfully humorous exchanges between the main character (Axel) and his estranged, caustic girlfriend, Zenobia. Her bitterness nearly drips off the page, and when Ax playfully provokes her it brings out the worst\u2014and funniest\u2014in her. I don\u2019t know which of Axel\u2019s associations is more dangerous, the one with Zenobia or the one with the zombies. His relationship with his girlfriend is already dangerously strained, but (thankfully) she has no filters, and her devilishly biting sarcasm is hysterical and left me wanting more. Those two need therapy! Axel\u2019s awkward nervousness around her, along with his explosive intolerance of the zombies, results in many uproarious moments throughout this book.<---F> Worth reading\u2014twice! </---F>...more If you want to laugh, pick up this book. The story is told by Ax Handel, a nineteen-year-old with no pretentions or excuses for not having all the answers\u2014or using the \u201cwrite\u201d words to tell his tale. He simply goes about his business\u2014the business of taking his yard back from zombies while trying to benefit from it. Along the way he takes a ton of grief from his mother and ex-girlfriend, who do their best to keep Ax Handel in check, as if that\u2019s even possible. Funniest is his father, who has a ha If you want to laugh, pick up this book. The story is told by Ax Handel, a nineteen-year-old with no pretentions or excuses for not having all the answers\u2014or using the \u201cwrite\u201d words to tell his tale. He simply goes about his business\u2014the business of taking his yard back from zombies while trying to benefit from it. Along the way he takes a ton of grief from his mother and ex-girlfriend, who do their best to keep Ax Handel in check, as if that\u2019s even possible. Funniest is his father, who has a hard time staying focused and is seemingly constantly on the run from a plethora of unknown pursuers. I couldn\u2019t get enough of the descriptive action scenes where Ax fights the zombies...his emotions are hysterical! ...more There are a lot of zombie books out there, but maybe none as funny as this one. Best of all, it\u2019s uniquely refreshing in its irreverent treatment of the genre. The segment with the radio talk show conversations is sidesplitting; frequently the callers\u2019 questions are ignored and instead they\u2019re ridiculed by Ax and his hilariously psychotic father. And Axel\u2019s ideas on the origin of the zombies and their intentions are absurdly funny. Hilarious! Literally laughing out loud. I think I may have gone to high school with Axel. Guaranteed fun! If you like zombies and you love to laugh, this book\u2019s for you. Especially if you get a warm tingly feeling every time a zombie gets put in its place. The details make this book go, and it flies! It was nonstop hilarious\u2014much better than most other books in this genre. Readers who love to laugh will enjoy the very real personalities of the living, breathing characters and their earthiness, which makes for cheeky and hysterical dialogue. Most refreshing\u2014and thought provoking\u2014was th Guaranteed fun! If you like zombies and you love to laugh, this book\u2019s for you. Especially if you get a warm tingly feeling every time a zombie gets put in its place. The details make this book go, and it flies! It was nonstop hilarious\u2014much better than most other books in this genre. Readers who love to laugh will enjoy the very real personalities of the living, breathing characters and their earthiness, which makes for cheeky and hysterical dialogue. Most refreshing\u2014and thought provoking\u2014was their often dangerously casual indifference toward the zombies. I was intrigued by the fascinating main character's frequent nonchalance regarding the zombie menace, and I was continuously surprised by his sudden comical outbursts and antics; nothing is out of bounds when it comes to the way Ax Handel treats the irrepressible zombies. I can\u2019t remember the last time I laughed so much. It made me wish I lived next door to the dysfunctional Handel family so that I might get a closer glimpse at what goes on over there. Hope there's a sequel! ...more Smith has created something new and different here, and it\u2019s absolutely hilarious. His main character, Ax Handel, is an oddball independent thinker with an unflappable burnt-out mother, a spaced-out father, and a spiteful girlfriend from hell. And that's not all. One day he finds he\u2019s got zombies running amok in his yard. That would be enough to make anyone run for the hills, but Ax is not a quitter, and while most people would view his situation as hopeless and dangerous, he sees opportunity. I Smith has created something new and different here, and it\u2019s absolutely hilarious. His main character, Ax Handel, is an oddball independent thinker with an unflappable burnt-out mother, a spaced-out father, and a spiteful girlfriend from hell. And that's not all. One day he finds he\u2019s got zombies running amok in his yard. That would be enough to make anyone run for the hills, but Ax is not a quitter, and while most people would view his situation as hopeless and dangerous, he sees opportunity. I love the way Ax Handel narrates the story: outrageously down to earth. He's the kind of guy you want for your best friend, but every once in a while you want to flip open that little door on the back of his head to check inside and see if some of the wires aren't crossed. This book is Dave Barry funny. ...more I\u2019m glad I picked up this very funny book; it\u2019s really not quite like any other zombie book I've read. At one point I laughed the gum right out of my mouth and my boyfriend gave me the strangest look. It\u2019s told by the main character, Ax Handel, who\u2019s got one or two screws loose, which makes him the perfect guy to fend off the zombies he unexpectedly finds himself living amongst. I loved the funny zombie scenes, but the thing I liked the most was the entertainingly unstable relationship Ax has wi I\u2019m glad I picked up this very funny book; it\u2019s really not quite like any other zombie book I've read. At one point I laughed the gum right out of my mouth and my boyfriend gave me the strangest look. It\u2019s told by the main character, Ax Handel, who\u2019s got one or two screws loose, which makes him the perfect guy to fend off the zombies he unexpectedly finds himself living amongst. I loved the funny zombie scenes, but the thing I liked the most was the entertainingly unstable relationship Ax has with his angry ex-girlfriend\u2014it's hilarious! ...more I love the pacing of this book and how the dialog has it moving right along, from one funny part to another, to another, to another. Before I knew it, I was halfway through it. I couldn't stop laughing at the very detailed & humorous observations of the main character, Ax Handel. I've known one or two guys like him and they are all hysterical - in a psychotic yet only slightly dangerous way! My favorite parts were the sidesplitting conversations between Ax and his hilarious girlfriend. I wan I love the pacing of this book and how the dialog has it moving right along, from one funny part to another, to another, to another. Before I knew it, I was halfway through it. I couldn't stop laughing at the very detailed & humorous observations of the main character, Ax Handel. I've known one or two guys like him and they are all hysterical - in a psychotic yet only slightly dangerous way! My favorite parts were the sidesplitting conversations between Ax and his hilarious girlfriend. I want to be her friend - she is one tough lady! ...more Very entertaining! It was so funny I read it twice, and the second time through I discovered several hilarious nuggets I\u2019d somehow missed the first time, such as the main character\u2019s questionable diction. This would make great television \u2014 I was laughing on nearly every page. I was planning to read it again but my sister stole it from me and she and her roommates have it hidden and refuse to return it, so I had to order another copy. I hope Smith writes more. This book is a lot of fun! My zombie-loving buddies and I thought it was a real kick. I was having a bad week, then I picked up this book and couldn't stop laughing. When the main character, Ax Handel, spirals into one of his fits of rage, no zombie is safe. And after he cleans house on one of the walking dead, I have a smile on my lips and feel strangely content; it just feels right. This is a pretty darn good zombie book: tons of funny stuff and a little bit of gore. VERY funny! I loved this book! <---A>Donnie</---A> Smith's \"We Got Zombies on the Lawn Again, Ma,\" is a chuckle out loud read. Donnie's writing is very train of thought as his main character Ax Handel describes his personal tribulations dealing with crazy family members, a weird girlfriend, living in a small town... oh and zombies, there's those too. I greatly appreciated that the character's voices remained consistent and realistic throughout the book, having spent years working with teenagers, this book often made me reminiscent of some Donnie Smith's \"We Got Zombies on the Lawn Again, Ma,\" is a chuckle out loud read. Donnie's writing is very train of thought as his main character Ax Handel describes his personal tribulations dealing with crazy family members, a weird girlfriend, living in a small town... oh and zombies, there's those too. I greatly appreciated that the character's voices remained consistent and realistic throughout the book, having spent years working with teenagers, this book often made me reminiscent of some of the things I've heard them say. This book is chock full of puns, witty one-liners and awesome dialogue snippets. One of my favorites being: \"You hit like a girl.\" \"Well if you tried harder you could too!\" Overall this was a fun and easy read. Fans of 'The Walking Dead,' 'Trailer Park Boys' and 'Reno 911' will love this book. ...more My girlfriend gave me this book for my birthday and it's crazy! It's not just about zombies either. The main character Axel is sort of a cross between Indiana Jones and Bart Simpson. I told my girl she reminded me of Axel's girlfriend Zenobia and she laughed and laughed as she read it too. I was hoping it was part of a series but I only see the one book. Okay, I just read a book that was AWESOME! The Super Villain one just now, it was great! This book had something in common with it - insane rambling. Unfortunately, this book consists ENTIRELY OF INSANE RAMBLING. Were there amusing moments? Absolutely. Do I love insane rambling? You betcha. However, insane rambling is like the orange zest in the mandarin chiffon cake, DELICIOUS, but not when it's just a big pile of orange zest, you need the flour (world-building) and the sugar (emotional connect Okay, I just read a book that was AWESOME! The Super Villain one just now, it was great! This book had something in common with it - insane rambling. Unfortunately, this book consists ENTIRELY OF INSANE RAMBLING. Were there amusing moments? Absolutely. Do I love insane rambling? You betcha. However, insane rambling is like the orange zest in the mandarin chiffon cake, DELICIOUS, but not when it's just a big pile of orange zest, you need the flour (world-building) and the sugar (emotional connection to characters) and the eggs (a plot, any plot?) to make it SUPER DELICIOUS instead of just bitter and hard to swallow. Also, I'm increasing my course load at school. I don't have time to finish books that I know I'm not going to like much any more. So, officially, this is my very first book I'm abandoning - for realz, officially... XD at 31% ...more I thought the title of this book rocked. However, that was the only thing about it that did. It was not clever, there was little to no continuity about it and the last fourth of the book was just the kid's radio show which was totally disjointed and disconnected from any real story about zombies, which with a title like this is what I think one is looking for. Zombies. Humor. There was some of the first and very little of the second. If you want to read something that reads like the notebook of I thought the title of this book rocked. However, that was the only thing about it that did. It was not clever, there was little to no continuity about it and the last fourth of the book was just the kid's radio show which was totally disjointed and disconnected from any real story about zombies, which with a title like this is what I think one is looking for. Zombies. Humor. There was some of the first and very little of the second. If you want to read something that reads like the notebook of a stoner then go ahead and read, otherwise I would never recommend this book to a soul. ...more My tattoo artist recently laughed at me when I was telling him about another book I was reading, Inside the Outbreaks about Epidemic Intelligence Service. He said, \"You always come in here reading some book, but it is never the same type of book. But you read that book (about the EIS), and in the same breath tell me you are reading a book called We Got Zombies On the Lawn Again, Ma. What possessed you to read that?!\" I tend to read about 3 books concurrently, and I read books of all kinds, so wh My tattoo artist recently laughed at me when I was telling him about another book I was reading, Inside the Outbreaks about Epidemic Intelligence Service. He said, \"You always come in here reading some book, but it is never the same type of book. But you read that book (about the EIS), and in the same breath tell me you are reading a book called We Got Zombies On the Lawn Again, Ma. What possessed you to read that?!\" I tend to read about 3 books concurrently, and I read books of all kinds, so why not? This is the first single star review I have ever done. Most people ignore 1 star reviews, I think, because they feel it is just too low and biased by personality. So, I have to assume that probably if you are reading this, you already know why I gave it a single star review because you know now in retrospect. I think the reason I felt that I had to was that I recently gave Neuromancer a 2 star review for various reasons of personal irritation with the style, lack of weight in the conflict, and then a resolution I just didn't even care about by the end. But here is the thing: it HAD a plot. It had a exposition, complication, climax, and a resolution. This book does not. The excuse is that it is a rambling notebook diary format from the point of view of an uneducated 19 year old pizza delivery guy named Ax Handel who just writes the way he thinks. Yup, he rambles. About the same kind of thing over and over and over - which is mostly about anything other than zombies and mostly metaphors about being a tough guy. In his ongoing internal monologue, it is like a stand up comedian constantly going off in different directions and \"Have you ever noticed?\" scenarios. There are characters, yes, on the periphery, and all of them seem to talk the same way he does. They all bait and switch each other randomly like a vaudevillian dialog sequence between Groucho and Chico Marx, except that stops being funny after the first time it is done. (By the way, the Marx Brothers were framed by stories and were much more skilled in their banter. For the record, I love the Marx Brothers.) In the beginning, we are introduced to his ex-girlfriend, and we think here is the romantic interest. She is interesting and would be a good source of conflict and eventual resolution, and she disappears immediately. Then there is his tough mother and his ex-con father. (Everyone is tough in this book, and the men often bait anyone else into an implication they that they are gay, which is repetitive enough to be homophobic.) Those are the characters, and they occasionally provide a source of back and forth Abbot and Costello type confused misdirection to the point of becoming tedious. And the zombies? Where are the zombies? Well, the first actual zombie encounter in which an incident with a zombie is involved occurs over 30% into the book. I thought, \"OK, here is where the story finally starts!\" No. We never find out why there are zombies, nor why anyone should care, and apart from beating them viciously in attempts to be funny, he doesn't do anything to eradicate them or even use them. The zombies are never more than just kind of irritating. They are just there sometimes. Only 4 times in the book, actually, and the second encounter with zombies is over 50% into the book. There are two more zombie scenes, and the most interesting and promising part of the book involves a talking zombie dog, and two zombie mobsters. It was almost enjoyable, but they never recur. I even had a dwindling hope that they would. Nope. The last 12 - 15% of the book was all a call-in radio program he does with his father involving people threatening each other, suggesting the callers are gay, and fighting. So, maybe this book was the equivalent of a Jerry Springer show - with zombies in the background. This book has made me finally resolved to go back to reading sample chapters first and stop buying books with what seems like a promising or amusing scenario blogs. So, why the hell did I read all the way to the end. Well, I paid for the book as I said. It may be that I felt compelled to give it every last chance I could to find positive elements. It did sometimes make me grin. I realize now that it may be the worst book I have ever read because I can't quite think of anything worse. I used to think it was The Bourne Identity or Inferno (Dan Brown, not Dante) or Never Let Me Go by Kazuo Ishiguro. I pretty much hated all 3 of those books, but despite being facile, two-dimensional, or stylistically nauseous, those books had actual stories. There are plenty of the worst books I have NEVER read, like anything by Ayn Rand because I disagree completely with her philosophy, but this one I read. All the way to the end, and that is important because I was sure of the reason I gave it one star. Sorry. ...more I'm usually immune to \"funny\" books so it's properly high praise when I say that this made me laugh out loud twice. As Homer Simpson would say, this is \"just a bunch of stuff that happened\" meaning it's not so much a novel with a plot as a collection of comedy anecdotes about Ax beating up the zombies. Which might be why I actually didn't find the zombie parts as interesting as Ax's perceptions of and interactions with the world around him. But if you approach it that way and read it a little bit I'm usually immune to \"funny\" books so it's properly high praise when I say that this made me laugh out loud twice. As Homer Simpson would say, this is \"just a bunch of stuff that happened\" meaning it's not so much a novel with a plot as a collection of comedy anecdotes about Ax beating up the zombies. Which might be why I actually didn't find the zombie parts as interesting as Ax's perceptions of and interactions with the world around him. But if you approach it that way and read it a little bit at a time it's better and more entertaining because otherwise the manic pace of the prose gets sort of draining and hard to concentrate on. Then again, that could be a personal thing because as I said, issues with funny books. The cover doesn't have any branding, it looks self-published? Well done, Smith! ...more I really tried to finish, but I just could not read any further without going crazy or starting to tear the book apart in frustration. This book disappointed me so much. There is no plot and it seems like random associations are put together with no recognizable purpose (dropped at page 133). An idiot with ADD rambles on and on. I think I am stupider for having tried to read this.<---C>Donnie  Smith</---C><+++>We Got Zombies On The Lawn Again, Ma (Ax Handel's Special Zombie Notebooks Book 1)</+++>", "Title": "We Got Zombies On The Lawn Again, Ma (Ax Handel's Special Zombie Notebooks Book 1)"},
