{"Comments": "This review was first posted on Northern Plunder , if you want to see more reviews please click here .<---F> I just</---F>... can't deal... with such a large... amount of... ellipses... I think I adored... the compositions... of the pages... much more... than the poems... themselves... However... I did particularly enjoy... the first part of the book... and the third... the second part was a little less... enjoyable... for myself. This only silence knows... How paradoxical we are... we... the hollow...as I lay on my bed... next to on one... while others around the world... lay next to someone... But that's not what differentiates us... cause right now, me and them... we are all alone... as they turn their backs to their women... Instead of holding them tight... we are one and the same... we... the vacant... No... the difference is when you are here... next to me... Yes... when you are here... ...I sleep next to everything. ------------------- This only silence knows... How paradoxical we are... we... the hollow...as I lay on my bed... next to on one... while others around the world... lay next to someone... But that's not what differentiates us... cause right now, me and them... we are all alone... as they turn their backs to their women... Instead of holding them tight... we are one and the same... we... the vacant... No... the difference is when you are here... next to me... Yes... when you are here... ...I sleep next to everything. ------------------------------------ Rain... The rain is what gave me life... every drop is a cell that completes me... a drop was my first,<---M> my only</---M>, my last breath... a river my blood... an ocean my masterpiece... ------------------------------------- Words we hear... nothing more than a habit to our ears... the good mornings and goodbyes between lovers... not knowing they are actual strangers... the conversations and rhetorical arguments amongst strangers... not knowing they are lovers... An infusion to the mind, or to the heart... A chemotherapy for loneliness... --------------------------------------------- Honesty is a scalpel... that is my tool.. and I use it methodically, with precision... my steady hand and sterilized heart... would be envied by any surgeon... Patient and calculative... I made a weapon... out of my own imperfections... I saw myself and all the things I've done... what I've done so far... so many things I'm counting... What have I done so far... that hasn't led to nothing? ---------------------------------------- In this frantic world we live in... Where death's speed is a thousand lives per second... I saw... your face... ...and everything stopped. Oh my God, this is so good! These parts here are from a free sample of the first chapter and I'm craving mooore! And the paintings are ... Woah, you could just stare at them all day, they're so enthralling. The words.. Such brutal honesty.. ...more Mr. John Doe, you are not an unknown person. You are the voice that many should listen to. Imagine you were born couple of centuries ago. Do you think you would live despite the words you're promoting? I was shocked, don't think I wasn't. The shock came when I realized that you are not a romantic poet, but a rough truth teller. You haven\u2019t given the reflected picture of today\u2019s world, but the true picture of our lives. We build our world on the bloodshed of our ancestors and celebrate it. What\u2019s Mr. John Doe, you are not an unknown person. You are the voice that many should listen to. Imagine you were born couple of centuries ago. Do you think you would live despite the words you're promoting? I was shocked, don't think I wasn't. The shock came when I realized that you are not a romantic poet, but a rough truth teller. You haven\u2019t given the reflected picture of today\u2019s world, but the true picture of our lives. We build our world on the bloodshed of our ancestors and celebrate it. What\u2019s to be celebrated? Massacres, homeless hungry people, dead children\u2026 One should fight it, not grieve or support through charity organizations. As you said the other day, charity organizations take profit from doing what they\u2019re doing. It\u2019s all about marketing and money. Less production \u2013 more telemarketing \u2013 that\u2019s today\u2019s economy. A weak individual will see a photograph of an African child and feel guilt. Go to Africa and help the kids, don\u2019t cry over the television commercial of some charity organization. Social crises are made up by the beasts who rule this world behind the closed doors \u2013 cowards hiding behind their power and money. They don\u2019t realize that this world doesn\u2019t belong only to them, but to all of us. What they have and we don\u2019t is the ability to kill and sleep peacefully afterwards. They can say a single word and others will obey. We can shout and we will be silenced. I like the \u201cShhhh\u201d God \u2013 the Crucified One. An excellent technique and the symbol of our twisted made up Christianity, but not the Christianity in its essence. Unfortunately, there is a minority that sees all the stupidity and absurdity of today\u2019s society and religion and only a few of them who will speak about it. So, speak. Don\u2019t end it with this book. Keep on writing. Please. I laughed when I came to this part: \u201cand I dare the priest that can look down to a sinner and say; \u2018your sins are forgiven\u2019 to do the same with his daughter after she has had an abortion\u2026\u201d Double LOL. You should see our priests here. :D Lovely outfit, though. Well said, of course. I imagined that situation. That\u2019s what we, the believers, the people, the citizens allowed a long time ago. Instead of letting the inquisitors slay us we should have slain them. We are the mass and we behave as if we are one ignorant mortal individual. Everything\u2019s so wrong in this world. I felt the pain because I realized that we are the zombies, brainless machines and Facebook nation that are programmed to repeat the same activity every day. That\u2019s bad\u2026 That\u2019s why the everyday news are negative, black, bloody. One individual is an important part of a mass, but as an individual one has no value. But if one should make the first step and make another one listen, then maybe something changes. Maybe then we\u2019ll understand the unconditional love. Yes, the end of the book. You made it very clear that you don\u2019t want to make profit with the book. Anyway, my copy of \u201c<+++>The Unwords</+++>\u201d is a present from the UnAuthor, so it misses the end. Thank you once again for the (un)words and confidence. I will spread the unwords\u2026 ...more The author (The pseudonymous unauthor) gave me a copy of the first chapter of his book (Titled \u201cAesthetics\u201d). I am a huge fan of both pseudonymous people (Gee, wonder why that is?) and free stuff, so despite the fact that I am a poetry plebeian (High poetry for me usually consist of limericks who's first line ends in 'Nantucket') I gave it a go. At first I thought it was good. Not spectacular, not great \u2013 but solid poetry that didn\u2019t quite catch me. Combining that with the art, which is also good The author (The pseudonymous unauthor) gave me a copy of the first chapter of his book (Titled \u201cAesthetics\u201d). I am a huge fan of both pseudonymous people (Gee, wonder why that is?) and free stuff, so despite the fact that I am a poetry plebeian (High poetry for me usually consist of limericks who's first line ends in 'Nantucket') I gave it a go. At first I thought it was good. Not spectacular, not great \u2013 but solid poetry that didn\u2019t quite catch me. Combining that with the art, which is also good but seemed at first like a declaration of \u201cSee how clever and talented and deep I am. Don't you wish you were half as good as I?\u201d I was not displeased, but not amazed. Then I reached the line: \u201cA chemotherapy for loneliness...\u201d And I thought, clever. I kind of like that. And then I read: \u201cWhere death's speed is a thousand lives per second...\u201d And I though, Damn! That\u2019s good! And from that point on I was enthralled. My biggest complaint, well complaints as they are three-fold: 1) \u20ac10.00 ($13) for a 90 page paperback is a little steep, for I am cheep (ode to my love of limericks). 2) I am nervous ordering from sites I am unfamiliar with. Call me crazy, call me paranoid, call me Ishmael. I wish the author would allow Amazon or Barns & Noble or someone. And yes, he is using Paypal which goes a long way to alleviating my concerns \u2013 so I will probably shell out the case at some point regardless of my misgivings. It just make me.... cautions. 3) Being a techno-geek I wish he had a Kindle version for sale. Yes, I do love and prefer the physical book BUT I am really developing a love for the e-reader. So I give this incomplete review a solid 4 as I try and scrape together some spare cash. ...more My o my, how self-important and wannabe-subversive is this. An exquisite and thought - provoking read! As George Orwell said, \u201cIn a time of deceit, telling the truth is a revolutionary act\u201d. This is precisely what the author of <+++>The Unwords</+++> is trying to achieve. A revolution in our perception of the world! By using honesty as his most powerful weapon, he pushes us out of our comfort zone and attempts to change our way of thinking ones and for all. Nowadays the society is structured in such a way that ethics and humanity are becoming slowly extinct. The aut An exquisite and thought - provoking read! As George Orwell said, \u201cIn a time of deceit, telling the truth is a revolutionary act\u201d. This is precisely what the author of The Unwords is trying to achieve. A revolution in our perception of the world! By using honesty as his most powerful weapon, he pushes us out of our comfort zone and attempts to change our way of thinking ones and for all. Nowadays the society is structured in such a way that ethics and humanity are becoming slowly extinct. The author of The Unwords throws a punch in the face of the system and introduces a new approach to the way we see others and ourselves. This book is a mind-stretching meditation which makes us wonder: \u201cWhat if the world didn't work the way it does now?\u201d Maybe it\u2019s time for a whole new perspective. Truly recommended! ...more SELF-RIGHTEOUS ANGER AS MELANCHOLY ANGST\u2014BUT SO COMPELLING. \"Make no mistake. Fear will destroy you. Fear will devour all that you are and everything that you adore around you. Fear is what drives you to do nothing, when you know damn well you need to do something.\"\u2014Loc 45/127 Wow! What a rewarding reading experience. I've just finished reading THE UNWORDS: Exposing the Dishonest Language of a Culture in Decline and the only urge I feel stronger than that to quote copious passages herein, is to start rea SELF-RIGHTEOUS ANGER AS MELANCHOLY ANGST\u2014BUT SO COMPELLING. \"Make no mistake. Fear will destroy you. Fear will devour all that you are and everything that you adore around you. Fear is what drives you to do nothing, when you know damn well you need to do something.\"\u2014Loc 45/127 Wow! What a rewarding reading experience. I've just finished reading THE UNWORDS: Exposing the Dishonest Language of a Culture in Decline and the only urge I feel stronger than that to quote copious passages herein, is to start reading it again. I am hooked. I might even come to enjoy reading poetry, if it could all be this good. I could disagree with some (perhaps more than 'some') of what he (the anonymous author) has to say\u2014but he says it all so beautifully, my objections are overruled. I even found myself liking the artwork. (I'm sure it's just a temporary condition and will pass.) Recommendation: Read this book only if you are prepared to want to read it again, and perhaps again and again. One time just won't be enough. \"Save for the future and dedicate your worship to the day that never comes.\"\u2014Loc 45/127 \"I say ENOUGH! ENOUGH LIES! Truth is... ... all you have is this day!\"\u2014Loc 102/127 After-quote... \"...know this to be the truth my dear reader, behind every book you've ever read in your life you will find a writer screaming 'love me'.\"\u2014Loc 116/127 [Free] Kindle edition, 127 Locations ...more Wow.... .0000000000000000000000000000000001 stars. This book aimed for profundity and landed on na\u00efvet\u00e9. The writing reads like the vague ramblings of an 18 year old who believes his mind has been opened, all of the posers have been exposed, and that this 18 year old alone has all of the answers to the world's problems. Yeah. No. I downloaded this book because I am interested in exploring the way ebook forms can combine many mediums. In this way, Unwords is interesting, but still not a success. The Wow.... .0000000000000000000000000000000001 stars. This book aimed for profundity and landed on na\u00efvet\u00e9. The writing reads like the vague ramblings of an 18 year old who believes his mind has been opened, all of the posers have been exposed, and that this 18 year old alone has all of the answers to the world's problems. Yeah. No. I downloaded this book because I am interested in exploring the way ebook forms can combine many mediums. In this way, Unwords is interesting, but still not a success. The use of contrasting colors and bold font does not a profound statement make. This book read like something written by The Underground Man. However, instead of recognizing its absurdity, Unwords seems to be taken with its own assumed profundity (which, I restate, is absent). Unfortunately, instead of revealing the gag, the commitment to a created, absurd character, the introduction instead confirmed my feeling that the author truly believes he has done something marvelously profound in this book. ...more A graphic novel in verse - two literary forms for which I don't care much, but decided to give a try. The writing is not bad, particularly as verse goes, but the content? Ugh. UGH. Arrogant, angry, pessimistic and dark. Get the writer some drugs and remove all sharp objects from his sight. Nothing good ever existed in the world and everyone sucks, especially you, you selfish corporate drone completely controlled by big business and big government (note: this means YOU, unless you are the writer) A graphic novel in verse - two literary forms for which I don't care much, but decided to give a try. The writing is not bad, particularly as verse goes, but the content? Ugh. UGH. Arrogant, angry, pessimistic and dark. Get the writer some drugs and remove all sharp objects from his sight. Nothing good ever existed in the world and everyone sucks, especially you, you selfish corporate drone completely controlled by big business and big government (note: this means YOU, unless you are the writer). It is exactly this type of persona (which may or may not be indicative of the actual author's worldview) that defines the stereotype of the moody, artsy, dirty hippie (which is a hurtful, untrue stereotype). If, indeed, this work is a fiction mocking the persona, bravo. If it is the angsty writing of an actual human's beliefs, I hope they call their doctor to get treated for a nasty case of depression. These were my thoughts before I read the afterword at the end of the book. I very much appreciated understanding where the author was coming from for a couple of reasons: 1. My American bias shows terribly in my reaction. I have never had to withstand the kind of socio-political environment the author experienced growing up. 2. The author pretty much cops to feeling exactly how I described him: Arrogant, angry, pessimistic and dark. However, he feels he has moved beyond it. Based both on the work and the afterword, I disagree. I still see tremendous anger, pessimism and arrogance. That said, the literary effort and the artistic impulse are driven by passion, and rarely does a book make me feel so strongly. Given the highly personal nature of the work, I hesitate to respond with such a negative response, but my emotions are every bit as valid as the authors, so I will leave with an honest review: I really didn't like the work and wouldn't recommend it. ...more I absolutely loved this, verse was never this good when I did English lit many many moons ago or would be a big fan of poetry now. This will challenge your conceptions on certain topics and the religious iconography may not be to everyone's taste but you can't please everyone. Overall the book is split into 3 themed sections and it flows so well, you can feel the different emotions that are being evoked and I felt connected to the unwords. The ending is a surprise, albeit a pleasant one, I hope p I absolutely loved this, verse was never this good when I did English lit many many moons ago or would be a big fan of poetry now. This will challenge your conceptions on certain topics and the religious iconography may not be to everyone's taste but you can't please everyone. Overall the book is split into 3 themed sections and it flows so well, you can feel the different emotions that are being evoked and I felt connected to the unwords. The ending is a surprise, albeit a pleasant one, I hope people discover this for themselves as per the unauthor's request. Get hold of a copy today, you won't regret it! ...more Shocking!!!! I was lucky to get a \"free\" copy from the author, but I actually felt guilty because of that after I finished reading it. This book attacks your senses with every single sentence and by the time you reach its conclusion you will never be the same person again. If there was ever an example of a book that was more than just words..this is it! If you are an idealist, an activist, or have any concern about the state of the society we live in today, The Unwords should be your bible! 5/5 h Shocking!!!! I was lucky to get a \"free\" copy from the author, but I actually felt guilty because of that after I finished reading it. This book attacks your senses with every single sentence and by the time you reach its conclusion you will never be the same person again. If there was ever an example of a book that was more than just words..this is it! If you are an idealist, an activist, or have any concern about the state of the society we live in today, The Unwords should be your bible! 5/5 hands down. ...more The Unwords brings a philosophically provocative point of view. The definition of the title seems to be the unspoken. Thoughts that have become taboo only through the social assimilation that every person wishes not to recognize in themselves. From the trauma of psychological isolation to the social acceptance of blame, every word echoes the nearly six years the author has taken to compile this book. Contemplating themself, and everyone else coexisting (or lack thereof) on this planet we call ea The Unwords brings a philosophically provocative point of view. The definition of the title seems to be the unspoken. Thoughts that have become taboo only through the social assimilation that every person wishes not to recognize in themselves. From the trauma of psychological isolation to the social acceptance of blame, every word echoes the nearly six years the author has taken to compile this book. Contemplating themself, and everyone else coexisting (or lack thereof) on this planet we call earth, and this reality we call home. ...more A raw, captivating book of poetry that touches the soul and inspires the mind. I absolutely love the unapologetic, tender yet harsh words the author chooses to describe life. Many of the lines are so breathtaking and innate, they will haunt me for a long time. Such as: \"What have I done so far...that hasn't led to nothing?\" Haven't we all felt this way at one time or another. Also, The Unwords is beautifully designed with stunning images throughout the text. This book is a must have. Really beautiful and thought provoking. If you like art and poetry, this is for you, though I thought the art could be more... I don't know, more. It was very minimal. It's also dark and anarchistic, which I like. `There is nothing more dangerous than a character with no author.' <---A>Non Nomen</---A> (`no name') is the moniker assigned by the author to provide his anonymity, but that at first seemingly gimmick to sell a book should in no way deter readers from delving into this collection of thoughts and images and poetry that has the courage to `unleash a full scale attack on all fronts of cultural and social decay.' What we learn from his introduction is that he grew up in a `very violent, ultra-nationalistic, drug `There is nothing more dangerous than a character with no author.' Non Nomen (`no name') is the moniker assigned by the author to provide his anonymity, but that at first seemingly gimmick to sell a book should in no way deter readers from delving into this collection of thoughts and images and poetry that has the courage to `unleash a full scale attack on all fronts of cultural and social decay.' What we learn from his introduction is that he grew up in a `very violent, ultra-nationalistic, drug-filled social environment. There was a military camp right nest to my school but not a single library within a 30 mile radius.' His family was warm and supportive in severe contrast to the outside world and he found solace in painting at a very young age. Impressed by the Alan Moore book `V for Vendetta' his perception of what world around him changed. `It sparked a need for justice and a thirst for knowledge and rebellion.' He combined his art with his writings and the ultimate result of many years of gestation was this book. To `review' a book of this nature borders on the impossible, other than to encourage people to read it for themselves and respond viscerally as well as artistically and intellectually. The design of the book is splendid; each page is covered with the author's art or manipulations of imagery that serve as the matrix for his words. The book is divided into three sections: Aesthetics, The Discipline of the Watch, and A Thankless Task. An excerpt from the first section follows: A smile, compressed and encrypted. A touch, password protected. You passed my by today. You went by me so swift, in such a hurry. like an empty promise eager to be ignored; to be forgotten Why won't you look at me and welcome me into your world? It's so easy. A smile, a split of a second a word... yet so expensive. I miss the kisses I haven't given you yet. I miss the memories we haven't shared yet. I still miss you... yet. This rather restrained and tender poem is like the match that lights the blaze that follows - poems of dissection of our moral fiber, our sense of emptiness we have created, our isolation. The works are at times tough to read because they sting. But they deserve to be read and digested and Non Nomen presents that need. He serves attention. Grady Harp ...more I received the book for free through Goodreads First Reads and at first I wasn't sure about this book. I thought there are so many people out there who love reading poetry and philosophy books, but it isn't my cup of tea. Really. Boy, I was totally wrong. At the moment I got the book, I read the book in one day. It left my mind blown and I couldn't sort out my thoughts, so the next day I read it again, that time more slowly, carefully thinking over each verse. Some people find this book revolutio I received the book for free through Goodreads First Reads and at first I wasn't sure about this book. I thought there are so many people out there who love reading poetry and philosophy books, but it isn't my cup of tea. Really. Boy, I was totally wrong. At the moment I got the book, I read the book in one day. It left my mind blown and I couldn't sort out my thoughts, so the next day I read it again, that time more slowly, carefully thinking over each verse. Some people find this book revolutionary. I feel 'The Unwords' is about things you've already known. It just helps you realize that there are some issues in today's world which are not right and we all should think about what we could change in our society... P.S.: This book has one of the most beautiful design I've ever seen, the pictures and painting are truly amazing. ...more I got The Unwords because it was free on Amazon.com. From the title I expected it was a discourse on the use and misuse of language in our culture. That's not what it is. One thing that is unusual about this book is that almost every page is written on a graphic, and image of some sort. This is the first time I've seen this on my Kindle. That's the best part of this book. The author is unknown, anonymous, Non Nomen. The author has a damaged, dismal outlook. She resents her parents. The text is writ I got The Unwords because it was free on Amazon.com. From the title I expected it was a discourse on the use and misuse of language in our culture. That's not what it is. One thing that is unusual about this book is that almost every page is written on a graphic, and image of some sort. This is the first time I've seen this on my Kindle. That's the best part of this book. The author is unknown, anonymous, Non Nomen. The author has a damaged, dismal outlook. She resents her parents. The text is written in the format of poetry. It is poetry-like, poetoid. Quasi-verse, pseudo-verse. Unverse. ...more If I had one complaint to express to the author, it would be there should be a blog or somewhere people who have already read The Unwords can interact and discuss about this magnificent book with no worry about revealing anything. I believe the book is impossible to discuss or review without revealing its \"secrets\". Other readers already know what I mean. Anw, this book really caught me off guard. The author takes a punch at the system and takes no prisoners. I have to admit, I read a lot of boo If I had one complaint to express to the author, it would be there should be a blog or somewhere people who have already read The Unwords can interact and discuss about this magnificent book with no worry about revealing anything. I believe the book is impossible to discuss or review without revealing its \"secrets\". Other readers already know what I mean. Anw, this book really caught me off guard. The author takes a punch at the system and takes no prisoners. I have to admit, I read a lot of books...but this is simply extraordinary! ...more I absolutely loved reading The Unwords. I loved reading it for the same reason I love reading Orwell, because brutal honesty shines throughout the whole book. Nothing is left unsaid, all things to do with the way our system works are criticised and talked about in a very open and honest way, from politics, to relationships, the individual. After finishing reading, you won't forget what you have just read for sure. I don't want to give anything away, but I recommend this book to everyone. I think I absolutely loved reading The Unwords. I loved reading it for the same reason I love reading Orwell, because brutal honesty shines throughout the whole book. Nothing is left unsaid, all things to do with the way our system works are criticised and talked about in a very open and honest way, from politics, to relationships, the individual. After finishing reading, you won't forget what you have just read for sure. I don't want to give anything away, but I recommend this book to everyone. I think anyone with an open mind could appreciate this. ...more If you have not read this, then you should! If for no other reason than it is so unusual and it's free! It will open your mind up to things than none of us have ever really given any thought to at all. I'm not saying that I personally agree with all that is in the book but I do say that it does leave a lot of room for consideration and research. For obvious reasons I can say that I have never read anything like this before. At this moment I'm not even sure that I liked it but I will say that it If you have not read this, then you should! If for no other reason than it is so unusual and it's free! It will open your mind up to things than none of us have ever really given any thought to at all. I'm not saying that I personally agree with all that is in the book but I do say that it does leave a lot of room for consideration and research. For obvious reasons I can say that I have never read anything like this before. At this moment I'm not even sure that I liked it but I will say that it definitely has me thinking! Or maybe the better word is wondering? ...more The Unwords brings a philosophically provocative point of view. The definition of the title seems to be the unspoken. Thoughts that have become taboo only through the social assimilation that every person wishes not to recognize in themselves. From the trauma of psychological isolation to the social acceptance of blame, every word echoes the nearly six years the author has taken to compile this book. Contemplating themself, and everyone else coexisting (or lack thereof) on this planet we call ea The Unwords brings a philosophically provocative point of view. The definition of the title seems to be the unspoken. Thoughts that have become taboo only through the social assimilation that every person wishes not to recognize in themselves. From the trauma of psychological isolation to the social acceptance of blame, every word echoes the nearly six years the author has taken to compile this book. Contemplating themself, and everyone else coexisting (or lack thereof) on this planet we call earth, and this reality we call home. -Stephany ...more This is a truly interesting book with an entirely different way of thinking. With a balance between the verses and the authors art really makes every page fulfilled and maxed out with things that really makes you think. Gladly recommend this book to anyone to wants to read something different and thought invoking! I received \"The Unwords\" in the mail today. I started reading it just to see what it was really about and I didn't put it down until I finished it. \"The Unwords\" is an exquisitely poetic tale which takes the reader on an unusual journey through the facts of the world we live in that we often don't acknowledge. I'm sure I'll read this multiple times. I'm really not certain what to make of this book - self-righteous and arrogant, angsty and personal. It doesn't really seem like poetry (it is far too straightforward) but it is written in poetic form, with art that I also don't know what to make of. I will give it a second read to see if I can make up my mind. Too dark, after a decent start with the first story, it falls into a pattern of \"the world is a horrible place and I hate it, change the world and it will be better.\" Note to author; First you must change yourself. \"We who hold the pen\u2026 and like bricks we use our words\u2026 how stupid of us\u2026 how naive\u2026 to even think for a second\u2026 that the pen is mightier than the sword.\" Fantastic. Started of well and had some good points, but when you complain about everything, it gets a bit tiresome to listen to after a while. The author dares to open our minds to the 'unwords' in such a raw way that one cant help but to be moved. The verse and art throughout make it all the more thought provoking. Very good read. This was a free book that I downloaded from Amazon. It was interesting and different...seemed like poetry but supposed to be a graphic novel. Not sure what to think about it.<---C>Non Nomen</---C>", "Title": "The Unwords"},
