{"Comments": "In theory, it is easy to hate an Eton educated upper class Scotsman who decides it\u2019d be a lark to walk across Afghanistan six months after the fall of the Taliban. The idea reminds me of the stupidity and adventurism I encountered when I went to Palestine with ISM. People vacationing in other people\u2019s misery so they can go home and brag about it is not really my cup of tea.* But after reading Stewarts book, I have to say it is extremely good. We learn next to nothing about Stewart here outside of In theory, it is easy to hate an Eton educated upper class Scotsman who decides it\u2019d be a lark to walk across Afghanistan six months after the fall of the Taliban. The idea reminds me of the stupidity and adventurism I encountered when I went to Palestine with ISM. People vacationing in other people\u2019s misery so they can go home and brag about it is not really my cup of tea.* But after reading Stewarts book, I have to say it is extremely good. We learn next to nothing about Stewart here outside of the details of daily walking. He is cold,<---M> he has dysentery</---M>, other than that, the focus is almost entirely on the people he meets, and I cannot think of a travel book that does a better job of honestly relating the lives of the people he meets. Not every Afghan in this book is a noble tribesman; some are downright unkind to Stewart.<---F> Others are incredibly welcoming</---F>. Some are Taliban supporters; some are not. Some are drug dealers and some are subsistence farmers. I think the honestly in Stewart\u2019s portrayal of the Afghans he meets is very respectful and his writing of this book is the best outcome of this kind of experience I can imagine. ...more It is what it is: a guy walks across Afghanistan. What do you think happens? A) he encounters very poor and poorly educated tribal/feudal lords B) he encounters hostile, backward, cruel teens and militia and former soldiers C) he walks 25 miles a day with not much to describe: rural Afghanistan is rural for a reason D) all of the above D, of course D. Well, at one point he does get a dog. Now Rory can describe how Babur likes to sniff and pee and roll in snow. I give Rory some credit for what he cho It is what it is: a guy walks across Afghanistan. What do you think happens? A) he encounters very poor and poorly educated tribal/feudal lords B) he encounters hostile, backward, cruel teens and militia and former soldiers C) he walks 25 miles a day with not much to describe: rural Afghanistan is rural for a reason D) all of the above D, of course D. Well, at one point he does get a dog. Now Rory can describe how Babur likes to sniff and pee and roll in snow. I give Rory some credit for what he chooses to leave out (complaints--he is quite cheerful about what must have been bitter cold and about eating food that can't have been savory, about going hungry, and the lack of graciousness he encounters) and the genteel way he describes unsavory life realities (his dysentery, the lack of hygiene of his hosts). Toward the end of the book he bemoans that he hasn't gotten to understand the Hazara very well (one of the four ethnic groups in Afghanistan). I don't think that was a fair whine--his practice was to come to a village at dusk, stay one night, and head out in the morning, hardly conducive to sociological study. His goal was never to understand the Afghans by hanging with them--it was to walk across Afghanistan, a huge, formidable, mostly unfertile land, one of the world's poorest. Mission accomplished. But I find people more interesting than both goals and landscapes. I wish Rory did, too. ...more <---A>Rory Stewart</---A> walks across most of Afghanistan. I had high hopes for this book. Unfortunately, Stewart\u2019s total disrespect for the customs of the people he meets along the way interfered with any enjoyment I might find in the story of his journey. He feels a sense of entitlement towards their hospitality. He expects to show up and be provided with the best accommodations and the best food. That he does this in an area where people often have a difficult time feeding themselves is irresponsible. Ste Rory Stewart walks across most of Afghanistan. I had high hopes for this book. Unfortunately, Stewart\u2019s total disrespect for the customs of the people he meets along the way interfered with any enjoyment I might find in the story of his journey. He feels a sense of entitlement towards their hospitality. He expects to show up and be provided with the best accommodations and the best food. That he does this in an area where people often have a difficult time feeding themselves is irresponsible. Stewart is aware that dogs are offensive to most Afghans, but he simply doesn\u2019t care. Even in more canine loving cultures, showing up with a large dog and expecting your hosts to accommodate it is nothing less than insensitive. His walk is self-indulgent. Not only does he put himself at risk, he also knows that the tradition of hospitality will require some Afghans to undertake the same cold and dangerous conditions, despite the fact that these individuals will have to walk back to their villages and they do not possess proper footwear. It was interesting to read this after recently finishing Three Cups of Tea . Stewart and Mortenson are complete opposites. Mortenson is a doer and clearly passionate and respectful of those he encounters. Stewart is a critical, judgmental chronicler. I also got a little annoyed with his final high and mighty bit not accepting a ride for the last 71 km to Kabul as dangerous as it might be, because \u201cI could not explain why I was determined to walk every step of the way\u2026I did not feel I could give up so close to my goal.\u201d Yet somehow he conveniently forgets that his goal of connecting his walks across Iran and Pakistan, as stated in the preface, has gaps from at least the Iranian border to Herat in the west and Kabul to the Pakistani border. On a stylistic note, his frequent use of lengthy footnotes is annoying. Since he\u2019s inconsistent about using them to expand on the historical context of his walk, they appear to be the result of lazy writing and poor editing. ...more Just weeks after the fall of the Taliban in January of 2002 Scotsman Rory Stewart began a walk across central Afghanistan in the footsteps of Moghul conqueror Emperor Babur and along parts of the legendary Silk Road, from Herat to Kabul. He'd find himself in the course of twenty-one months encountering Sunni Kurds, Shia Hazala, Punjabi Christians, Sikhs, Kedarnath Brahmins, Garhwal Dalits, and Newari Buddhists. He said he wanted to explore the \"place in between the deserts and the Himalayas, bet Just weeks after the fall of the Taliban in January of 2002 Scotsman Rory Stewart began a walk across central Afghanistan in the footsteps of Moghul conqueror Emperor Babur and along parts of the legendary Silk Road, from Herat to Kabul. He'd find himself in the course of twenty-one months encountering Sunni Kurds, Shia Hazala, Punjabi Christians, Sikhs, Kedarnath Brahmins, Garhwal Dalits, and Newari Buddhists. He said he wanted to explore the \"place in between the deserts and the Himalayas, between Persian, Hellenic, and Hindu culture, between Islam and Buddhism, between mystical and militant Islam.\" He described Afghanistan as \"a society that was an unpredictable composite of etiquette, humor, and extreme brutality.\" And he conveys all that in a way that only someone having taken such a journey, taken step by step, burning shoe leather, could have given us. This didn't impress me much at first, when he begins it I wasn't hearing much about Afghanistan I didn't know. But certainly by the time I got a third way through I was much more impressed. He had a gift for vividly describing the people and the landscape. I have to admit, I found heart-breaking to read how dogs are treated in Afghanistan. It's said Muhammad once cut off part of his own garment rather than disturb a sleeping cat. Unfortunately, he didn't feel equal affection for dogs, and they're \"religiously polluting.\" They're not pets, and they're never petted. A quarter of the way in his journey Stewart has a toothless mastiff pressed upon him by a villager and he named him Babur. The evidence of past abuse could be seen in missing ears and tail, and someone told Stewart the dog was missing teeth because they'd been knocked out by a boy with rocks. Stewart found the dog a faithful companion and said he'd call him \"beautiful, wise, and friendly\" but that an Afghan, though he might use such terms to describe a horse or hawk would never use it to describe a dog. Then there was how Afghanistan's precious historical and cultural legacy was being destroyed. I think many Westerners certainly know about how the Taliban dynamited the giant Bamiyan Buddha statues over a millennium old because they considered them \"idols.\" Just as profound a loss is discovered by Stewart in his travels. There is a legendary lost city, the \"Turquoise Mountain\" of the pre-Moghul Ghorid Empire. Archeologists couldn't find it--but when passing through the area, Stewart had found villagers who had, and were looting artifacts with no care for the archeological context or the damage they were doing to the site, selling the priceless wares for the equivalent of a couple of dollars on the black market. This is what he tells us about his discussion with the villagers about the lost city: \"It was destroyed twice,\" Bushire added, \"once by hailstones and once by Genghis.\" \"Three times,\" I said. You're destroying what remained.\" They all laughed. Many a time I wished George W. Bush and Tony Blair could have taken that journey with Stewart and learned the lessons he did. He gives you a sense of the complexity and diversity of the culture and of Islam--and just how ludicrous and ignorant were the assumptions and goals imposed on the country by the invading Westerners. I certainly know that, especially as a woman, this wasn't a journey I could have personally taken, so I felt all the more privileged to look over Rory Stewart's shoulder as he took the journey across Afghanistan. ...more I'm not quite sure how to classify this book. It's not exactly a travel book, nor is it \"current affairs.\" So perhaps I'm not judging fairly by seeing it air more on the side of travel than any other genre. Anyway, a good travel book, in my opinion, should make you vaguely want to go to a place. Even if it's a wretched journey (as in In the Heart of Borneo by Redmond O'Hanlon). Even if the trip is perhaps beyond your financial or physical means. Even if you know what's being described on the pag I'm not quite sure how to classify this book. It's not exactly a travel book, nor is it \"current affairs.\" So perhaps I'm not judging fairly by seeing it air more on the side of travel than any other genre. Anyway, a good travel book, in my opinion, should make you vaguely want to go to a place. Even if it's a wretched journey (as in In the Heart of Borneo by Redmond O'Hanlon). Even if the trip is perhaps beyond your financial or physical means. Even if you know what's being described on the page no longer exists or has changed beyond recognition (as with Norman Lewis's books about Southeast Asia). You should want to experience a place for yourself. Before reading this book, I had absolutely no desire to go to Afghanistan. And after reading this book, I had absolutely no desire to go to Afghanistan. My husband declared that he wanted to go and report in Afghanistan after he finished reading <+++>The Places in Between</+++>, and I had to admit to him that I was really puzzled by his response. \"But the book seems to be a series of scenes where Stewart is sitting in a dark, oppressive room with a bunch of taciturn men with beards,\" I said. \"Interrupted by periods of extreme cold and bouts of diarrhea.\" The people -- or rather, the men, because women barely make an appearance (no fault of Stewart's) -- are either truculent or devious or simply backwards. The food is basically hunks of greasy mutton or, more often than not, nan-like bread on its own. And the landscape is snowy and bare. Or snowy and blighted. Or just plain snowy. The writing, too, wasn't spectacular. Plain to the point of dullness. A lot of \"I did this\" and \"I felt that.\" But then again, given his general isolation, perhaps that's also not entirely his fault. So, again, I'm puzzled. A lot of people whose opinion I highly esteem rate this book quite highly. What is it that I'm missing? Or were they just taken by the single-mindedness of the journey? ...more I found out about this charater from a magazine article at the time of the book's release. A scotsman who, for a variety of personal reasons not really revealed (a nice change of privacy in this world). begins walking across Afgahnistan. He intersperses historical entries of a previous walker & conquerer between tales of hospitality and snow and destruction of antiquities. I don't imagine I will ever have the opportunity to go to the places he writes about. So much of it was unfamiliar that th I found out about this charater from a magazine article at the time of the book's release. A scotsman who, for a variety of personal reasons not really revealed (a nice change of privacy in this world). begins walking across Afgahnistan. He intersperses historical entries of a previous walker & conquerer between tales of hospitality and snow and destruction of antiquities. I don't imagine I will ever have the opportunity to go to the places he writes about. So much of it was unfamiliar that the read was astonishing for that alone. But for all the political sensitivies he ably writes about and exhibits...I can't escape a certain irritating ballsiness of enitlement. He embarks on this journey PLANNING to rely on the proverbial kindness of strangers because that is an Islanmic cultural and religious value. And really, since he succeeds in his journey, he is evidence of an astonishing degree of hospitality and generosity. He says this too, but I cannot imagine anyone walking across America, or Scotland for that matter, who would believe that he was entitled to expect food, shelter and assistance because he asked for it. I guess I am flummoxed by his concept of need. Kindness to strangers has it roots in fear that the strangers might be gods or their messengers alongside the pragmatic need that strangers in a strange land might need assistance. But to plan a trip just because people will, presumably, shelter you? It just seems somehow to take advantage of something that you can never repay. All that being said, I am utterly in awe of man who walks with himself. That is worthy of a journey. Quite a read. And quite a humbling recognition of a world we are destroying that has been destroyed many times over time. ...more Graham borrowed my copy and didn't return it. Graham is a friend from the pub. He's retired and he often forgets many things. I bet he forgot he borrowed The Places In Between. The arrogance of the Westerner is on full display in this romp just after the NATO/Northern Alliance victory over the Taliban in 2001. Rory has a dog and the pair walk around. Rory finds many of the locals lazy or selfish. These same locals routinely give him food and shelter, this in the aftermath of an invasion. It is d Graham borrowed my copy and didn't return it. Graham is a friend from the pub. He's retired and he often forgets many things. I bet he forgot he borrowed The Places In Between. The arrogance of the Westerner is on full display in this romp just after the NATO/Northern Alliance victory over the Taliban in 2001. Rory has a dog and the pair walk around. Rory finds many of the locals lazy or selfish. These same locals routinely give him food and shelter, this in the aftermath of an invasion. It is dumb luck that Rory wasn't stoned to death for being an insensitive ass. Rory's dog died, though to be clear he wasn't stoned by locals either. He later went to walk in Iraq. Poor Rory. Graham, you may as well keep my copy. ...more The author walked across Afghanistan! Yes, all the way on foot. The book covers his travels from Herat to Kabul over the mountains in the winter of 2001, after the US invasion. Rather foolhardy/dangerous, but I enjoyed hearing about his meetings with the Afghans of different ethnic groups. A Afghan mastiff became his companion, which added a heartfelt touch. <+++>The Places in Between</+++> by Rory Stewart has to be one of my favorite books. Rory has this gift to tell stories in such a brutally honest way that you find humor in even the most mundane life experiences. Although, I wouldn't generally categorize walking across Afghanistan 2 months after the Taliban fell, mundane. Yet, nothing about this book was breathtaking. Nothing was romantized, nothing placed on a pedestal. He spoke openly and honestly of all the people he met, those friendly, and those that The Places in Between by Rory Stewart has to be one of my favorite books. Rory has this gift to tell stories in such a brutally honest way that you find humor in even the most mundane life experiences. Although, I wouldn't generally categorize walking across Afghanistan 2 months after the Taliban fell, mundane. Yet, nothing about this book was breathtaking. Nothing was romantized, nothing placed on a pedestal. He spoke openly and honestly of all the people he met, those friendly, and those that would've preferred to rob him and leave him dead in a ditch. He's truthful and humorous, and I found myself walking alongside him, a sort of ghost following his rugged trail through mountains, valleys, and Buddhist monastaries. Rory Stewart is now living in Kabul, working on a project called Turquoise Mountain. He (and his sponsers) are re-creating the \"downtown\" river district and restoring it to it's former glory. They're opening schools for people to re-learn the ancient arts of carving, weaving, architecture, etc. They're restoring city blocks that have been covered in 7 feet of trash, and restoring homes where families have lived for centuries. And all for free. The Afghan aren't quite sure what's going on still, wondering why someone would be doing this out of the goodness of their hearts, but that's what so great about it. Look it up online at http://www.turquoisemountain.org/ and go through the picture gallery for some fun shots. So, Jon and I want to go to Afghanistan. Not sure when, not sure where, but once you get the ache to see it with your own two eyes, you can't deny it. Just ask Rory. ...more Stewart is an upper class Brit who sustains the English tradition of adventurism. He has worked in Iraq (and done other things I cannot recall here) and in this book he tells of his walk across Afghanistan. It was an interesting tale, one in which he offers a picture of what life is like for many of the locals. It is not a happy existence, having to survive on land that is not very productive, at the edge of poverty for a lifetime, subject to the whims of the local warlords and bandits. One thin Stewart is an upper class Brit who sustains the English tradition of adventurism. He has worked in Iraq (and done other things I cannot recall here) and in this book he tells of his walk across Afghanistan. It was an interesting tale, one in which he offers a picture of what life is like for many of the locals. It is not a happy existence, having to survive on land that is not very productive, at the edge of poverty for a lifetime, subject to the whims of the local warlords and bandits. One thing that stood out was the widespread activities of the Taliban, the degree of their atrocities, the thousands they had killed and how pervasive was their effect. They terrorized the nation. What was also notable, sadly, was how many of the people Stewart encountered had been members and even officials when it had been profitable to be a Taliban. One heart-wrenching piece here was Stewart\u2019s adopting a very large, old, and run-down dog, who became his travel companion and who he wanted to take home with him to Scotland. Stewart comes from the moneyed and connected class, having gone to school with Tony Blair\u2019s kid, yet he does not come across as full of himself or at all arrogant. Britain seems to produce adventurers and outdoorsmen as a normal part of their popular strain. Stewart is clearly a full-fledged member of that fraternity, carrying on a rich tradition. He would have gotten along swimmingly with Rudyard Kipling. The book is not wonderful. It drags at times. Stewart is a competent but not exceptional writer. But there is the richness of his enterprise here, and I expect that we will be hearing plenty more from Mister Stewart before he is done. ...more I saw this author interviewed on PBS and quickly decided I had to read his book. So glad that I did. This man, a former British soldier who now works at Harvard, walked across Afghanistan entirely on foot in 2002-03. His story is a deep look into the culture of Afghanistan outside the cities. Basically what we hear about on the news takes place inside the cities. But most of the country is comprised of villages. When we talk about \"winning\" in Afghanistan we need to realize what that means. This I saw this author interviewed on PBS and quickly decided I had to read his book. So glad that I did. This man, a former British soldier who now works at Harvard, walked across Afghanistan entirely on foot in 2002-03. His story is a deep look into the culture of Afghanistan outside the cities. Basically what we hear about on the news takes place inside the cities. But most of the country is comprised of villages. When we talk about \"winning\" in Afghanistan we need to realize what that means. This book gives a very important insight into that reality. Rory Stewart is advising President Obama about a better way to approach the idea of \"success\" in Afghanistan. I think he would be wise to listen and incorporate his insights into our plans there. Great book... great read... I recommend this book for every American who wants to really know what is going on in another part of the world completely different from ours. ...more I'll be honest, The Places in Between was not at the top of my to-read list for this year. The book description was great, but when I read the about-the-author synopsis and saw that Rory Stewart was an Oxford graduate with a background in politics, I grew skeptical and hesitated to order it. I feared the author would be snobby and out-of-touch and the writing would be a dry fundraiser for various political causes and agendas. Boy was I wrong! Stewart is a very good writer and the book was never d I'll be honest, The Places in Between was not at the top of my to-read list for this year. The book description was great, but when I read the about-the-author synopsis and saw that Rory Stewart was an Oxford graduate with a background in politics, I grew skeptical and hesitated to order it. I feared the author would be snobby and out-of-touch and the writing would be a dry fundraiser for various political causes and agendas. Boy was I wrong! Stewart is a very good writer and the book was never dull. Even in difficult circumstances due to which he admits to being irritable, his writing rarely takes on a whiny tone. He is respectful of the people he meets and the bevy of cultures he encounters. In fact, there is very little information given about the author himself, as throughout the book he focuses on Afghanistan: its people, history, and culture. This detached approach may have been inspired by the medieval Emperor Babur whose journey through the mountains in January Stewart is somewhat unintentionally retracing. Stewart deftly weaves Afghanistan's colorful history into his own adventures through short extracts from Babur's diary and compares and contrasts modern and ancient Afghanistan in a way that is educational yet still interesting and entertaining. He also includes some of his sketches to give the reader a picture of the people he meets. This book was anything but a disappointment for me, I enjoyed it from beginning to end. It provides some nice glimpses of life in Afghanistan's heart. While I doubt it will be my favorite read of the year, I have a feeling it will still rank in the top ten and I look forward to reading The Prince of the Marshes. I recommend this book to anyone looking for a good honest travel memoir without the emotional clutter and whine. ...more I started out thinking I was going to really, really like this book. It is about a fascinating part of the world and one that is extremely important to us - and important that we understand - Afghanistan. It's a travelogue of Stewart's walk across that country, from Herat to Kabul after September 11, 2001. In the last couple of years, I have read Khaled Hosseini's fictional books about his native land and I found them very revealing and sympathetic. I had hoped for a broadening of that experienc I started out thinking I was going to really, really like this book. It is about a fascinating part of the world and one that is extremely important to us - and important that we understand - Afghanistan. It's a travelogue of Stewart's walk across that country, from Herat to Kabul after September 11, 2001. In the last couple of years, I have read Khaled Hosseini's fictional books about his native land and I found them very revealing and sympathetic. I had hoped for a broadening of that experience with this non-fiction book, and indeed there were moments of revelation and increased understanding, but in the end, I found that it left me cold. Literally. I felt the need to wear a sweater while reading it. In large part, that was because this is - necessarily, I guess - a very one-sided and one dimentional story. It's the story of the male population, or at least a segment of the male population, of Afghanistan, and it is a story of unrelieved hardship and squalor, not just physically, but intellectually and spiritually. While that may be the truth, it was very hard for me to read. I couldn't help wondering throughout about the missing characters - the women. What must it be like to be a woman in these Afghanistan villages? \"A Thousand Splendid Suns\" gave us a glimpse of their lives but there is little hint of the lives of these invisible people here, and very little thought seems to be given to them by the author. ...more This Stewart guy has a pair of big brass ones-walking across Aghanistan in the shadow of the Taliban's defeat. He doesn't write as well as Robert Kaplan, another trekker of the world, but his stories are interesting nonetheless. There aren't many people in this story you want to meet but you get the clear description of one of the remotest parts of the world. Intriguing country. If I had the chance, I would like to visit the Hazara people and Bamiyan area. He paints an intriguing picture here. D This Stewart guy has a pair of big brass ones-walking across Aghanistan in the shadow of the Taliban's defeat. He doesn't write as well as Robert Kaplan, another trekker of the world, but his stories are interesting nonetheless. There aren't many people in this story you want to meet but you get the clear description of one of the remotest parts of the world. Intriguing country. If I had the chance, I would like to visit the Hazara people and Bamiyan area. He paints an intriguing picture here. Definitely a worthwhile read. ...more Enjoying every step of the journey. Rory Stewart's perceptive acceptance of a foreign world, leaves me shaking my head in admiration. I'm reading the book slowly, a chapter every few days. The author's desire to understand and experience things around him, overtakes his sense of self preservation. The book gives us an insight into the journey of an incredibly kind, brave and intelligent human being. His book has given me a window into the way things are in Afghanistan, and showed me a little of Enjoying every step of the journey. Rory Stewart's perceptive acceptance of a foreign world, leaves me shaking my head in admiration. I'm reading the book slowly, a chapter every few days. The author's desire to understand and experience things around him, overtakes his sense of self preservation. The book gives us an insight into the journey of an incredibly kind, brave and intelligent human being. His book has given me a window into the way things are in Afghanistan, and showed me a little of the structured hierarchy within village life. #slowtravel ...more I closed this book sobbing and I would just like to point out, I KNEW THE DOG WOULD DIE! I just knew it. As I hugged and kissed my own dog I reflected on my obsession with the dog contextually in a book that covers so many weighted subjects. The book explores a culture which America both hates and knows nothing about. Throughout the author's extreme journey through this land, capturing moments, ideologies and fears of the people hidden in Afghanistan's mountains, plains and plateaus...I could th I closed this book sobbing and I would just like to point out, I KNEW THE DOG WOULD DIE! I just knew it. As I hugged and kissed my own dog I reflected on my obsession with the dog contextually in a book that covers so many weighted subjects. The book explores a culture which America both hates and knows nothing about. Throughout the author's extreme journey through this land, capturing moments, ideologies and fears of the people hidden in Afghanistan's mountains, plains and plateaus...I could think of nothing more than that dog. As I thought more about the dog's role in the story, I realized it was his juxtaposition with this paradoxical culture that was so incredibly ironic. The common theme with all the hosts the author stayed with was the mirage of cultural and religious ritual. Ritual that more often than not was blind, ignorant and entirely counter productive. I found it a little more then unfortunate that these people believed dogs to be unclean and lowly, because there is so much they could learn from that amazing animal regarding true being and knowing. The author's incredibly neutral and observant tone seemed parallel to the dog's role in the story. Both individuals penetrating a culture so dichotomized by various tribes and families proved a peaceful existence without reliance on hate to exist. While I guess I can't say what is right or wrong, to think about \"being\" and how one individualizes oneself from others is a fascinating concept. To think about how many people \"are\" through a network of hate and fear is something else... ...more This is a really amazing book. Rory Stewart approaches his post 9/11 walk (with no money!) through Afghanistan with a certain academic detachment. He keeps his journey grounded in the history of the country by tracing an ancient route and describes his interactions with the people that he meets with the distance of an anthropologist. Unlike in other travel books, Stewart does not glorify himself or anyone he meets. He also resists the temptation to villainize or judge even those who threaten him This is a really amazing book. Rory Stewart approaches his post 9/11 walk (with no money!) through Afghanistan with a certain academic detachment. He keeps his journey grounded in the history of the country by tracing an ancient route and describes his interactions with the people that he meets with the distance of an anthropologist. Unlike in other travel books, Stewart does not glorify himself or anyone he meets. He also resists the temptation to villainize or judge even those who threaten him and instead describes all of his experiences with a matter- of- fact fatalism that provides a vivid glimpse into life in remote Afghanistan. ...more This book received a glowing review in The New York Times when published. The reviewer called it a \u201cstriding, glorious book\u201d. This quote appeared on the front of the old-school paperback copy I acquired. I understand that the reviewer liked the book, but\u2026. striding? You know, now that I think about it, I've read reviewers complain that it's difficult to find new, fresh ways to praise a book, but still, \u201cstriding\u201d is a fail. Does it mean the book is fast-paced? Leaves your breathless, as after a This book received a glowing review in The New York Times when published. The reviewer called it a \u201cstriding, glorious book\u201d. This quote appeared on the front of the old-school paperback copy I acquired. I understand that the reviewer liked the book, but\u2026. striding? You know, now that I think about it, I've read reviewers complain that it's difficult to find new, fresh ways to praise a book, but still, \u201cstriding\u201d is a fail. Does it mean the book is fast-paced? Leaves your breathless, as after a long walk? Takes great steps in aiding one's understanding? Vigorous? The advent of the 'net has brought an avalanche of new ways to waste time. One of my favorites is to read one-star book reviews on Goodreads. I noticed that this book seemed to be trashed more frequently by women than men. I counted the reviews on randomly selected pages of one-star reviews. Women outnumbered men by six-to-one. (Compare five-star reviews: random sample of large data set, fairly evenly distributed between men and women, perhaps more men.) What makes this book obnoxious to distaff Goodreaders? Assumption, unsupported by fact: Men and women who posted reviews of this book on Goodreads are reflective of men and women generally. One hypothesis: Women are more likely to be annoyed by books written by people of privilege, like the author, especially when writing about those less privileged than themselves. (Read about Rory Stewart here .) Women are more likely to identify and sympathize with the less privileged. Dislike the author, dislike the book. Alternative hypothesis: I remember reading in a book by Deborah Tannen about a social science experiment wherein men and women watched videos of children at play and asked for their opinions. Women were more likely to be critical of boys doing cruel and childish things (like bullying, shouting). Women wanted boys to behave with consideration and kindness, i.e., like adults (theoretical adults, anyway). Men tended to be amused and remark \u201cboys will be boys\u201d or something similar. Children being childish struck men as natural, unavoidable. Instead of a video about children being childish, this is a book about a man being mannish, that is, embarking on adventure for the sheer butt-headed thrill of it all, to be able to say you've done it, to set yourself some arbitrary but difficult goal and then fulfill it. (From pg. 1: \u201cI'm not good at explaining why I walked across Afghanistan. Perhaps I did it because it was an adventure.\u201d) You're miserable on your adventure? Of course you are! You offend others? They'll get over it! You put your own life in jeopardy? It's your life to waste, and nobody else's! I tend to sympathize with adventurers, so I didn't mind this book, even if the author seemed a little too eager to find fault in others (see, for example, p. 159, where the author takes the Western archaeological establishment to task for not adequately protecting an isolated site from looters). However, it's a grim and serious book \u2013 look elsewhere for light-hearted adventure. ...more The Places in Between by Rory Stewart. It's a quick and easy read, and although it is not all that illuminating in many ways, it does give a snapshot of one person's fascinating journey through that country, and at least an idea about what it is like in the rural hamlets that comprise much of the population. Rory Stewart never explains why it is he decided to walk across Asia. For whatever reason, he walked across India, Nepal, Iran, and other Asian countries. After the U.S. invasion of Afghanist The Places in Between by Rory Stewart. It's a quick and easy read, and although it is not all that illuminating in many ways, it does give a snapshot of one person's fascinating journey through that country, and at least an idea about what it is like in the rural hamlets that comprise much of the population. Rory Stewart never explains why it is he decided to walk across Asia. For whatever reason, he walked across India, Nepal, Iran, and other Asian countries. After the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan in 2002, he took the opportunity to walk across that land as well (he had previously been denied access to the country by the Taliban). Stewart walks through the middle of the country, from Herat to Kabul, braving sometimes unfriendly villagers, treacherous mountain passes in the dead of winter, and various other obstacles. It's quite the concept, and yields a fair amount of striking moments. The prose is matter of fact and dry, though sometimes you can sense Stewart's sense of humor just below the surface. However, the book does suffer from a sort of sameness. The belt of villages that Stewart walks through, and relies on to feed and shelter him, are all fairly similar. There is a familiar motion to finding the appropriate local chieftan to appeal to in each village and avoiding the same sorts of pitfalls each time. And though the journey must have been incredibly difficult, I rarely got the sense from the walking descriptions of exactly how tiring it must be. I believe that Stewart was in many ways lucky to survive at all, particularly when accounting for the dysentary he seems to always have, his lack of mastery of the language, and his travel through areas that had heavy support for the Taliban still. One moment that was among my favorite in the book: Stewart has just come into another poor dwelling hoping to find nourishment. It is a typical mud hut with no power or amenities; it does, however, have a poster on the wall. \"[The] poster showed a yellow convertible sports car parked outside a Swiss chalet with flower-decked balconies. Printed below in capital letters in English was: ANYONE WHO HAS EVER STRUGGLED WITH POVERTY KNOWS HOW EXTREMELY EXCITING IT IS TO BE POOR. Our host had bought the poster in Herat and asked me to translate it. I told him I could not understand the inscription.\" Irony of that passage aside, I think that would make an excellent T-shirt. The main lesson to be drawn in my opinion from Stewart's work is that Afghanistan is not in any way to be mistaken for a uniform nation. The people do not think of themselves in national terms, and the ethnic, religious, and feudal ties are much more important to them than any action being taken supposedly in their name by a distant government in Kabul. The things that matter are of course the things that affect our day to day lives. It is a depressing book in the sense that virtually no one the author meets cares at all about human rights or really any ideal whatsoever beyond what it is to be a Muslim (indeed there is a very interesting chapter about how Bush and Blair misconstrue Muslim belief). Stewart walked a long and difficult journey, but as thinking about this book makes clear, the journey toward a humane planet will be much longer. ...more Rory Stewart walked through India, Pakistan and Nepal in 2002, a time that was very unstable given the events of 2001 and the subsequent war. He decided that he wanted to walk through the heart of Afghanistan as well. He met with a lot of bureaucracy, but he was eventually given permission to undertake his journey on the condition that several soldiers accompany him. He sets out across Afghanistan in winter, towering mountains and layers of snow between him and his final destination of Kabul. I w Rory Stewart walked through India, Pakistan and Nepal in 2002, a time that was very unstable given the events of 2001 and the subsequent war. He decided that he wanted to walk through the heart of Afghanistan as well. He met with a lot of bureaucracy, but he was eventually given permission to undertake his journey on the condition that several soldiers accompany him. He sets out across Afghanistan in winter, towering mountains and layers of snow between him and his final destination of Kabul. I was a little disappointed in this and I'm having a hard time putting my finger on why, exactly. I think I expected more interaction with people? He's on foot and relies on the kindness of strangers for shelter and food. It's not like there are Holiday Inns on every street corner in Afghanistan. Heck, for that matter, there aren't even any streets to form corners in the rural areas he travels through. Just spending a night or two in one place, I felt like I didn't get a good sense of what the average people were really like. Which is kind of stupid to say. People are people. Afghans are like people everywhere--mean or kind, religious or not, apathetic or passionate. The one thing they are is crushingly poor. The country has been at war for so long, and I believe there's been a terrible drought that has dried up everything, so there's no chance to grow crops or lead a normal life. Anyway, I guess I didn't get a feel for what an average day in the life of an average Afghan is really like. Mr. Stewart mostly saw other people at night, when they'd settled in the house for what little dinner they could scrape together. What do they do with their time? I have no idea. What do they hope for or dream of? I don't know that either. It just felt like a lot of, \"I walked, begged for shelter and food, then we all fell asleep. I left early the next morning, dragging my dog behind me.\" I'm not being entirely fair, but that's closer to the truth than I hoped for when I picked this book up. There were a few things that stood out. There's an ancient civilization based in Afghanistan that archeologists haven't been able to find traces of. Mr. Stewart believes that villagers have found the ancient capital city and are looting it mercilessly. He describes untrained people digging through rubble, breaking what are probably priceless antiquities in their ignorance and rush to get items sold on the black market for a little more money to survive a few more days. Who can really blame them? He says that he tried to bring attention to the site when he left the country but no one was interested. I guess it's just too unsafe. Meanwhile, the knowledge and history to be gained is lost. There are other sites where the same kind of thing is happening, either due to unintentional harm or neglect. Overall, the book was easy enough to read and I did learn about a country that is very foreign to me and the different ethnic groups that live there. I just somehow wanted more out of it. ...more One of the best things about this book is the author, and how you learn next to nothing about him personally - the entire journey is focused on the places he goes and the people he meets. A large part of the book is historical as Stewart fills you in on the footsteps he follows (of Babur's journey many years ago) and on the cultural landscape that has made the regions of Afghanistan into what they were when he reached them. I enjoyed the simplicity of the tale. There's no irritating passages that One of the best things about this book is the author, and how you learn next to nothing about him personally - the entire journey is focused on the places he goes and the people he meets. A large part of the book is historical as Stewart fills you in on the footsteps he follows (of Babur's journey many years ago) and on the cultural landscape that has made the regions of Afghanistan into what they were when he reached them. I enjoyed the simplicity of the tale. There's no irritating passages that wax-poetic on the evolution of the traveller. Instead there is a real sense that the author has gotten over the novelty of travelling and is more focused on the fundamental circumstances he encounters. While not all of the people he meets are painted in a positive light, they all appear to be represented with respect and a certain level of understanding (regardless of whether he actually likes them or not). Part of my personal interest in this book was realised with the character of Qasim who escorts the author on the first part of the journey. As I spent a lot of time in the middle east, there were parts of Qasim which were so clearly part of the regional culture and were portrayed wonderfully. I wonder though, if the subtle nuances that motivate Qasim's behaviour are all that apparent to others who haven't come into contact with a whole lot of middle eastern mentalities. That's all beside the point though. The book overall is a fascinating read and there is much to be learned about the epistemologies driving the Afghani people and how different interpretations of Muslim teachings (and likewise, any teachings) can create small, but significant differences between neighbours. I enjoyed the peace of this book as there is a constant tone of a simple purpose. There are some moments along the way that are quite confronting and frustrating, but so many that are warm and celebratory of the Muslim belief in hospitality. An eye-opening and gentle book that would be of interest to anyone wanting to know more about the Afghani people and their journey through a cultural evolution that brings them to the present moment of history. ...more I thought I already did a review on this book, but then realized it wasn't on my shelf at all. Anyway, read this book for my book club. We try to throw in some non-fiction once in a while. I think I was the only person who liked it/found it halfway decent. The meeting for this book actually opened with dead silence for a full fifteen seconds and then finally, \"I didn't like it. It was awful,\" or something like that. Okay, so sometimes it was a bit boring, and Rory Stewart is not the best artist I thought I already did a review on this book, but then realized it wasn't on my shelf at all. Anyway, read this book for my book club. We try to throw in some non-fiction once in a while. I think I was the only person who liked it/found it halfway decent. The meeting for this book actually opened with dead silence for a full fifteen seconds and then finally, \"I didn't like it. It was awful,\" or something like that. Okay, so sometimes it was a bit boring, and Rory Stewart is not the best artist on the planet. He's certainly not the best writer. But the man never claimed to be. He's a historian, people. (At least I think that's what he is. He definitely didn't ever say he was a writer, so whatever.) So I was okay with the writing, and I even kind of liked the pictures since they broke up the story some. Overall, I thought it was pretty eye-opening. I would like to learn more about people's lives in Afghanistan, since this just gave us a brief glimpse. And I definitely liked the overall message of, We don't know enough about these people, and from what we do know, they're radically different, why are we trying to impose our views and lives and etc on them, it won't work!, etc. ...more I had access to a hard copy of this book as I listened to Rory read it on CD. I am completely in awe of his heroic walk through the mountains from Herat to Kabul in war-torn Afghanistan after the fall of the Taliban government in 2002. I learned more from his journey than from many other things I have read about Afghanistan, excepting perhaps Didier Lef\u00e8vre's book The Photographer , which is a excellent visual accompaniment to this volume. Stewart managed to distill thousands of interactions he I had access to a hard copy of this book as I listened to Rory read it on CD. I am completely in awe of his heroic walk through the mountains from Herat to Kabul in war-torn Afghanistan after the fall of the Taliban government in 2002. I learned more from his journey than from many other things I have read about Afghanistan, excepting perhaps Didier Lef\u00e8vre's book The Photographer , which is a excellent visual accompaniment to this volume. Stewart managed to distill thousands of interactions he experienced during his month-long walk into revealing vignettes that amuse, instruct, terrify, and sadden us. That he developed a deep and abiding respect for Afghanistan and it's people is obvious and infectious. I was pleased to learn of his return to Kabul, and of his role as Executive Director the Turquoise Mountain Foundation of Kabul . I wish him every success. I'd give much to be there with him. ...more Read this book for GeoCAT and because I thought it was a PBT 100 NF but I was wrong on that last point. This is the travel writing of Rory Stewart, a Scotsman (Born in Hong Kong, raised in Malaysia and Scotland). Wiki describes him \"British academic, author, diplomat, documentary maker and Conservative politician presently serving as Parliamentary Under Secretary of State at the Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA).\" In 2002, he walked across Afghanistan shortly after the Read this book for GeoCAT and because I thought it was a PBT 100 NF but I was wrong on that last point. This is the travel writing of Rory Stewart, a Scotsman (Born in Hong Kong, raised in Malaysia and Scotland). Wiki describes him \"British academic, author, diplomat, documentary maker and Conservative politician presently serving as Parliamentary Under Secretary of State at the Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA).\" In 2002, he walked across Afghanistan shortly after the Taliban were defeated. I enjoy travel writing. This is also a feat of endurance as walking across Afghanistan in the winter was an additional danger besides the fact that he walked across a country of many different tribes and peoples with varying loyalties alone and his dog Barbu he picked up along the way. Barbu was the first Mughal emperor who also walked across Afghanistan in the same route. I gained knowledge of the history of the area, the peoples, and the geography. I also learned about the author. Interesting man, born in 1973, has accomplished a lot in his life. ...more rory stewart, a scotsman, decided to walk across Afghanistan in January of 2002, on foot, by himself. if you'll recall, January 2002 was about 3 weeks after we installed the new government in Afghanistan. it was and still is a terribly unsafe place for westerners. as it turns out its even unsafe if you're an Afghani. Afghanistan is a country that is primarily still medieval: tribes based on ethnicity, religion, and location are constantly battling each other. this book is rory's travel diary of rory stewart, a scotsman, decided to walk across Afghanistan in January of 2002, on foot, by himself. if you'll recall, January 2002 was about 3 weeks after we installed the new government in Afghanistan. it was and still is a terribly unsafe place for westerners. as it turns out its even unsafe if you're an Afghani. Afghanistan is a country that is primarily still medieval: tribes based on ethnicity, religion, and location are constantly battling each other. this book is rory's travel diary of the trip, and in short i have a man-crush on this guy. equipped only with his knowledge of the local language and an amazing craft to avoid trouble when it is staring him in the face, he nearly dies (twice) and survives on a piece of bread daily for days at a time while hiking 60km a day. this was the look at Afghanistan that I was looking for that the Kite Runner only could provide in part. ...more Rory accomplishes something that no other travel diaries have done before him; he observes little of value or anything worth remembering from his experience. He loves walking and decides to walk through Afghanistan following footsteps of a Mongul king. As his journey progresses, he becomes more tired and increasing complains about people, food, climate, everything. Makes me wonder who forced him to do this? He complains about backwardness and violence in the Afghan places he visits. Is it any wo Rory accomplishes something that no other travel diaries have done before him; he observes little of value or anything worth remembering from his experience. He loves walking and decides to walk through Afghanistan following footsteps of a Mongul king. As his journey progresses, he becomes more tired and increasing complains about people, food, climate, everything. Makes me wonder who forced him to do this? He complains about backwardness and violence in the Afghan places he visits. Is it any wonder that after decades of violent occupation by foreign powers, they live like this? I picked up this book in the airport and thought for a NY Times best seller, it can't be bad; I was wrong. ...more Interesting description of author's walk across Afghanistan. Brings home the isolated nature of much of the country, the varied interpretation of Islam, and the depressing odds of ever bringing the area all together in one country -- which has proved to be quite prescient. Rory Stewart is a writer and explorer of great tenacity and compassion, and chronicles his walk across Afghanistan with his ailing dog Babur in a way that is profoundly humanistic and real. I wish this book could be written in Dari and Pashto so the locals could read it. Rory Stewart follows the route that the Prophet Babur did by walking through Afghanistan in 2002 just after the removal of the Taliban, he describes his journey in terrific detail and gives the reader a deeper understanding of a completely Alien culture. A riveting read. After I read quite a few negative reviews of this book, I really wanted to like it. I tend to be a bit critical towards other people's opinions of travel literature, probably because of my great love for Paul Theroux, who has quite a few unwarranted critics himself.So, if you write a travel book, and people don't like it, you've done something right in my opinion already. (your book may still suck, though). So, Rory Stewart then. Rory Stewart decided to walk through Afghanistan shortly after 9/11, After I read quite a few negative reviews of this book, I really wanted to like it. I tend to be a bit critical towards other people's opinions of travel literature, probably because of my great love for Paul Theroux, who has quite a few unwarranted critics himself.So, if you write a travel book, and people don't like it, you've done something right in my opinion already. (your book may still suck, though). So, Rory Stewart then. Rory Stewart decided to walk through Afghanistan shortly after 9/11, in the spring of 2002. Well, actually he probably didn't decide it right then, because he mentions somewhere in the beginning that he had already walked through other parts of Asia, and Afghanistan was the missing link. Timing-wise, I was a bit sceptical. Usually I read about people like Rory Stewart once they've been lost in the mountains/kindnapped by the bad guys/broke and unable to go and need to be rescued by those other guys I tend to read about a lot (that would be the military, for those of you woho don't follow my reviews regularly). So, my first impression was that Stewart was either not the smartest guy, or an insufferabl attentionseeker. But still, Afghanistan. Imagine. I HAD to read it. From the first moment on, Stewart surprised me. He was NOT an insufferable, unprepared long-time student who had nothing better to do with his time than walk through what may have been one of the most dangerous parts of this planet in early 2002. On the contrary - Stewart was prepared, he had a goal, and that goal was to follow the footsteps of Babur ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Babur ), the founder of the Mugal Empire (I'm shamelessly borrowing from wikipedia here, because unlike Stewart, I had not been familiar with Babur before). And he wanted to write a book about that. I can get behind that. That's a plan, and I like people with a plan. (and I love it when a plan comes together, but that's a different story). Even more, Stewart continued to delight me not only by quoting Babur, but also by quoting other authors and historians who had written about that area he is walking through. Travel literature AND literary quotes. I'm hooked. Sadly, Stewart forgets to travel over his great big plan to follow Babur and write about it. See, Stewart has a plan, and now that he is in Afghanistan, he is not going to give up that plan. Local guides are forced upon him? So what, he needs to walk! Quick quick, guides (okay, secret police or something, but anyway), follow the possessed foreigner, because he has a PLAN. And he knows this country so much better than you do, because a) he has a PLAN, and b) he has read Babur, and c) he has traveled through other countries before and really he has d) seen e) it f) all, pls the g) PLAN. That, Mr. Stewart (notice how we are not getting more familiar even after walking a couple of hundred miles?), is not traveling. That is...uhm, I don't know. But it sure isn't traveling. See, traveling, IMHO, is either about oneself, or about the others (in which case it is also about oneself, because one doesn't exist without the other). Traveling is hardly ever about the country one travels in. Stewart forgets that, because he has his plan, and that's all that matters. The people he meets on the way? Okay, he mentions them, but not at one point I had the feeling that he even thinks twice about them. And, here's where I'm the kind of traveler who was taught by her mother to never say anything bad about someone else and always ask what to bring before visiting someone (in other words, behave and try to find out what good behaviour in the country you are traveling to is all about), Stewart continues to belittle his (albeit involuntary) traveling companions. In his view, they are stupid and have no idea what they are doing. He makes fun of them, ignores their suggestions, and generally makes it completely clear that they are idiots who do not understand his PLAN, and thus need to be ignored. Which, you know, they may very well have been, but as traveler, shouldn't you ask yourself how these people feel about having to walk through Afghanistan on foot (when that is clearly a bad idea, see above), with a rude know-it-all of a foreigner, because their superiors ordered them to do so? Yes you should. And then you should make the best out of a not-ideal situation, and try to learn something about the country and its people and culture from them. And then you can still think that they are idiots (far be it from me to like everyone), but at least then you'll have a reason and have gained some understanding (which hopefully includes the appreciation that one should treat even idiots with respect, especially if it's not their fault that they are idiots). So, Stewart does not write anything profound about most people he meets, and writes nothing of interest about the people he spends the most time with (because he couldn't be bothered to find out about them in his arrogance). If what I said above is true, then this travel book must be about Stewart himself. And it is. Only I don't think he intended it to be about himself. In afct, another reviewer remarked that we learn next to nothing about Stewart himself, but I disagree. We learn everything about Stewart. WE learn that he is an arrogant prick, who thinks he is better than everyone he meets, because he has a university education and a PLAN, and why can't people get his PLAN already, because clearly it makes TOTAL sense to farmers in Afghanistan that someone NEEDS to follow Baburs (who?) footsteps and write about it and yes that means they aall have to put up with Stewart, because (fortunately for Stewart), hospitality dictates that they do (another thing that is ridiculed by Stewart). We also learn that Stewart has no idea that traveling is not about the way, but about the steps, and about where those steps lead you, not where you want them to lead you.. It's about people and cultures and encounters. It's about oneself, about discoveries, about flexibility and delays and detours and how good a beer can taste after three weeks in the desert. It's about so so so many things, non of which can be simply described. They have to be lived. And the good travel writers will then let us take part in how they lived those things. Stewart needs to become a traveler first before he can even attempt to write a travel book. I hope he looks back on his journey and his book, now, almost ten years later, and feels at least a little sorry for the way he treated the people he met, the fascinating project he underwent and himself. NOT recommmended. ...more<---C>Rory Stewart</---C>", "Title": "The Places in Between"},
