{"Comments": "well, i am reading a paranormal romance written for teenage girls. so sue me! i would love to give this book 1 star and just forget about it, for so many reasons: - despite the potentially interesting role reversal happening (<---B>mysterious supernatural GIRL meets weepy, slack-jawed BOY</---B>), the dialogue between the two is just as mawkish and hand-wringy as bella & edward. - my God, two authors and two pages of credits to supporters of this project, and they still don't know how to write? hello,<---M> ther well</---M>, i am reading a paranormal romance written for teenage girls. so sue me! i would love to give this book 1 star and just forget about it, for so many reasons: - despite the potentially interesting role reversal happening (mysterious supernatural GIRL meets weepy, slack-jawed BOY), the dialogue between the two is just as mawkish and hand-wringy as bella & edward. - my God, two authors and two pages of credits to supporters of this project, and they still don't know how to write? hello, there is no need to follow an entire paragraph of description or torrential emotion with a one-sentence paragraph summarizing the preceding paragraph.<---F> over and over and over again</---F>. c'mon folks, this is Writing 101 stuff. repeat after me: repetition is bad writing. repetition is bad writing. - the last third of the book should be completely pumped-up narrative excitement, but for every page of actual action there are two pages of ridiculously obvious exposition and eye-rollingly banal dialogue. - new kinds of supernatural beings shouldn't just pop up to cause trouble or save the day or be the mother of the best character, John Breed. they should not pop up repeatedly. and they shouldn't all have corny little nicknames either. \"evo\", a special kind of shape-shifty witch...really? but i can't give it the lowest rating because the novel had many enjoyable moments, mainly in the first half before things got sloppy & ridiculous. there's some charm there, particularly in the supporting characters and their eating habits. even better, this is a novel that is fascinatingly chock-full of extremely emotional dreams, hallucinations, visions, etc - practically every other page. at times the characters' emotions were so intense it almost felt like reading the equivalent of someone hyperventilating, or having a panic attack. that's kinda fun for a while, until its not. also: a network of magical tunnels. i'm always a fan of that. and then there's a nifty plot device that stays true to the protagonists' so-very-intense, can't-keep-their-hands-off-of-each-other, you-are-my-life kinda love, while also adhering to the strict no-sex dictates of YA fiction: whenever Whiny the Witch & The Drama King get too hot & bothered while grinding away, THEY LITERALLY START BURNING UP! no need to even worry about condoms - with that kind of innate barrier, sex ain't even happening. i guess they'll have to stick to magical phone sex - which, in <+++>Beautiful Darkness</+++>, actually has a name: \"kelting\". sorry kids, looks like you're looking at a lifetime of fully-clothed snuggling and lots of, er, hot kelting action. ...more These books DO NOT disappoint. Every time I finish one I'm always a bit emotionally drained and the authors always dangle something in front of you, so you almost have to read the next one to keep your sanity intact. Ethan and Lena just barely made it out alive from Lena's last Claiming, and things are not the same. Lena is grieving over the loss of Macon and Ethan can feel she is slipping away from him. She's starting to hang out with Ridley and this strange guy named John. Before Ethan can These books DO NOT disappoint. Every time I finish one I'm always a bit emotionally drained and the authors always dangle something in front of you, so you almost have to read the next one to keep your sanity intact. Ethan and Lena just barely made it out alive from Lena's last Claiming, and things are not the same. Lena is grieving over the loss of Macon and Ethan can feel she is slipping away from him. She's starting to hang out with Ridley and this strange guy named John. Before Ethan can even take a real grasp of the situation Lena runs away and though things between them are strained Ethan will go and try to find her. With the help of the sarcastic, goofy but studly Link, the smart as a whip new character Liv, and the wise old cat Lucille, Ethan goes through a journey where his heart leads him to Lena and where he will try with all he has to bring her back to him. Even though I did like reading this, I noticed the length of it a little too much. With the first one I was so enamored with the story I didn't notice it almost at all. I'm a little peeved that there are four books in the series because I believe everything could be solved in three, but I really enjoy Garcia's and Stohl's style and will read all of them. The southern setting always captures me, and doesn't let me out of its grasp. Unfortunately Lena was hard for me to swallow this time around. I literally wanted to take a frying pan and bang her head, but then I would be obliterated since she is oh so powerful. But then as the book progresses I did understand her better and where she was coming from. Only then I could mentally put away the cast iron skillet. I liked the change of Ethan being angry. We had to see that he had some gumption and a limit of what he could put up with. I also thought it was great that we got to see more interaction between Link and Ethan, and learn how their friendship worked. More secrets are brought to light in this one, and we are getting more pieces to see how the puzzle will be solved. Pay attention to Ridley and Link because their character arcs are the most interesting. They will definitely bring lots to the table in the next book. You can tell things are escalating already and I'm hopping up and down with anticipation to see what the cast of characters will be up against in the upcoming sequel Beautiful Chaos . ...more For gosh sakes, there are still two more books in this series??? Why? To what end? Here's the plot, let me know if you've heard this before, a few thousand times. Mortal teenager meets supernatural being of the opposite sex, experiencing instantaneous connection while supernatural being acts oddly and tells mortal that they must stay apart, that it's too dangerous, etc. Yet against all odds the two become a couple and after much drama and a battle, they are happily together. So, we get to book tw For gosh sakes, there are still two more books in this series??? Why? To what end? Here's the plot, let me know if you've heard this before, a few thousand times. Mortal teenager meets supernatural being of the opposite sex, experiencing instantaneous connection while supernatural being acts oddly and tells mortal that they must stay apart, that it's too dangerous, etc. Yet against all odds the two become a couple and after much drama and a battle, they are happily together. So, we get to book two, in which the supernatural being pulls away from the mortal teenager, again for the mortal's own good, because the supernatural being is too angst-ridden and just plain idiotic to actually discuss anything with the love of their life. Also, appearing in book two, is the required stand-in possible love interest that as a reader you can never quite believe in because if the mortal and the super-being are fated, star-crossed lovers, then adding in another one makes absolutely no sense and only diminishes the power of their love story. Are you following me? So, I guess the third book will have more running around, trying to outwit the baddies while the supernatural continues to dither around about their exact nature, good or bad. And the fourth book will create the way for them to be together, even though we\u2019ve been told over and over and over that they cannot be together. There could be an impossible (per the autor's own canon) mutant child that will grow up overnight allowing the cast aside love interest to have a mini-version of their lost almost-love. Nah, that's too far out for anyone to believe. It will end with a major climactic battle in which all the baddies will be destroyed, the world made right, or else a small debate after which the baddies decide to walk away. I AM BORED WITH THIS PLOT. I enjoyed the first Caster series book, but this one is very flat and goes on far too long for no real reason. This whole five hundred pages could have been a few short chapters. Honestly, the first two hundred pages are Ethan moaning because Lena has pretty much dumped him. Yet he continues to follow after her and feel badly every time she treats him like dirt. After this, they spend the remainder of the book running about in the Caster tunnels and it seems as endless as the tunnels themselves. It goes on and on until the last fifty pages when things finally start to happen. This isn\u2019t good. I don\u2019t know why we had to have Liv pushed into the story as someone Ethan constantly thinks \u2018what if\u2019 about. What if I met her first? What if I never met Lena? What if I just almost kiss her a time or two and we snuggle up and sleep together? Here\u2019s my what if. What if Liv had been a guy named Leo and we were spared all of this nonsense? Liv\u2019s being female didn\u2019t add anything to the story and could have been left out. I\u2019m sick of this triangle plot. It. Is. Unnecessary. The story in this installment didn\u2019t draw me in and I couldn\u2019t care about Lena. She became very unsympathetic and I don\u2019t like her any more. And after all of this, this journey to save her, her involvement with someone else (which is overlooked), the pain she has caused Ethan, in the end, she chooses NOT to choose. She doesn\u2019t claim herself, she claims nothing and does nothing. That\u2019s it, for all of this waste of time, all the sacrifices everyone makes for her and they are monumental, she chooses not to be good or bad, to just be her. So we can expect that sometimes she\u2019s going to do bad things and sometimes good? Not a character to whom I can feel any connection. And what is with all the \u201cL\u201d names? Link. Lila. Lena. Liv. Leah. Lucille. Larkin. This reason it gets a two instead of a one is because there were a few small things that I liked or that surprised me. The Caster cat was a nice addition as was learning more about Amma and members of Ethan\u2019s family. Finding out more about Ethan was interesting, but not enough to save the book. Macon. Ethan's voice and observations. The mystery of John Breed wasn\u2019t really developed enough, but I guess that\u2019s for one of the next books. All in all, this book was very uneven and tough to get through. AND oh my goodness, it just occured to me. Marian the Librarian! Not even original. Anyone seen the Music Man? *edit* I hve learned my lesson, it was difficult and I had to suffer extreme eye rolling and boredom but I have seen the light. I'm done with this series and don't care how it ends. I'm giving up on series that have so little to them that they shouldn't be serialized and don't have any growth in the characters and waste my time. ...more MY WTB NON-SPOILER REVIEW Seriously? This Book, three words honey--- What The Buck!!!--- (Can't bucking believe I'm using this pseudo-curse BUCK YOU! YOUTUBE ) Well what can I say O_o??? *speechless for a moment* This book is totally bad-ass, awesome, epic, pawned, heart-stopping, hair-raising, spine-tingling, thrilling, electrifying, breath taking, totally wicked yada yada. I can go on and on but I think my limited vocabulary won't do it justice. Stars speak for yourself. Ah Hello! Hi there Blindy! L MY WTB NON-SPOILER REVIEW Seriously? This Book, three words honey--- What The Buck!!!--- (Can't bucking believe I'm using this pseudo-curse BUCK YOU! YOUTUBE ) Well what can I say O_o??? *speechless for a moment* This book is totally bad-ass, awesome, epic, pawned, heart-stopping, hair-raising, spine-tingling, thrilling, electrifying, breath taking, totally wicked yada yada. I can go on and on but I think my limited vocabulary won't do it justice. Stars speak for yourself. Ah Hello! Hi there Blindy! Look 5 stars! 5 stars means awesome AMAZING, right? *retarded face* This book is like a puzzle(can't believe I'm doing bucking similes), it started out without any sense and lots of mysteries and questions but once pieces and pieces adds up and then you get to see at the end the finish work and it all made sense now that you know how beautiful and complicated the story is. And can I just add how creepy the book is and I was like, \"Mom I swear I'm not hallucinating I can't sleep in my room and I think there's an Incubus in my closet!\" And then Mom would replied, \"Are you on drugs?\" **Insert my WTB face here** And It's like Romeo and Juliet people! Only creepier, awesomer, insanier, bad-asser eer eer eer eer eer eer eer eer eer eer eer... for buck's sake! Okay I promise this review won't contain any spoilers so I'm using tuuuuuuut! (Yeah I know, genius right?) I can't believe that Macon and tuuuuuuuut! were ex-lovers I was like Kami, Margaret BUCK YOU!!! And Ridley become tuuuuut and Link become tuuuuuuut and Ethan was the bucking tuuuuuuuut! Ethan falling in love with tuuuuuuut and Lena ditching Ethan for tuuuuuuuut(I know, Holy Buck right?). The villains are bucking tuuuuuuuuuuuut. The new villain is tuuuuuuuut! Liv sacrificing her tuuuuuuuuuuut in the end. And then the tuuuuuuuuuuuuuts showing up in the end. And then tuuuuuut and tuuuuuuut died in the end. And then Lena was bucking tuuuuuuuuuut in the end. And John was half tuuuut and half tuuuuuut. And the cat, yes the CAT! was tuuuuuuuuuut and I was like WHAT THE BUuuuuuuuuuUCK . And seriously 18 moons??? Where this would all stop! Now I'mma shut up. (Wow it rhymes, Bucking shit! ) Just read this Motherbuckers! Say it again BUCK, BUCK, BUCK!!! __________________________________ Thoughts Before I Read This 10.12.2010 OH MY GOD! I went to National Bookstore today since I bought a rubik's cube for my brother and I was surprised that the book was released today. I was so happy a softbound was already available but it was still expensive (399php) and now I really need to make ipon (translation: to save money) T_T. PS: The cover's gorgeous! ...more <+++>Beautiful Darkness</+++> is a reread for me. I read it first in July of 2010, when I couldn't talk about the book because everything I might talk about could be construed as a spoiler. Sitting down to type this now, however, I realize that pretty much everything I can say about this book even now is an actual spoiler, and that makes it hard to write a review that will not offend someone. But I'm going to try. Because I can. And because my previous boasty review of this needs to be stricken. * Spoilers Beautiful Darkness is a reread for me. I read it first in July of 2010, when I couldn't talk about the book because everything I might talk about could be construed as a spoiler. Sitting down to type this now, however, I realize that pretty much everything I can say about this book even now is an actual spoiler, and that makes it hard to write a review that will not offend someone. But I'm going to try. Because I can. And because my previous boasty review of this needs to be stricken. * Spoilers for those who have not read Beautiful Creatures * Lena's sixteenth birthday has come and gone. The claiming failed and now Lena is stuck between two states, the dark and the light, with both sides warring for her powers. She is heartbroken over her Uncle Macon's death and this puts a lot of strain on her relationship with Ethan. Ethan is not the same either; he sees visions and longs for the relationship he once had with Lena. But as the months stretch onto her seventeenth birthday Lena begins to drift from him. She is spending more time with the Dark Casters in her family. Ethan finds comfort in the Librarian with Marian and, more importantly, Marian's British research assistant, Liv. Lena's birthday rocked the supernatural foundation of Gatlin to its core and, as the book goes on, Ethan vows to find a way to bring back the girl he loves. There's a piece in the middle of these books where the pacing is incredibly slow. I didn't notice it on the first reads because I was impatient to know what the hell was going on. I'm noticing it more on the second read, a dull middle bit where the reader wades through the plot like quick sand. I know it's intentional, and therefore I can't fault it on the author's part. These books are always plot heavy in the end and world building/character heavy in the front. It's just the way that <---A>Kami Garcia</---A> and Margaret Stohl structure their novels. However, it has been noted - the middle drags a little. Make a note as a reader and do not be surprised. The characters are what really shine in these books though. Ethan has always been a favourite male narrator of mine. His resourcefulness and empathetic nature have always appealed to me. His love for Lena is both tragic and beautiful. These two are fundamentally different people - he's human and she is, well... not. It causes some ripples in their relationship throughout the entire series. That they keep trying to be together, despite the odds, is what makes these books work. The doomed nature of their relationship is gorgeous. The side characters are also a fantastic addition - Link and Ridley, Amma and *sniff* Macon, the great Aunts, Lena's Caster family, even some of the cattier girls at Ethan and Lena's school figure in well to the story. Without some human element of drama it would fall flat, and the high school addition reminds us that Ethan, at least, is human. The latter part of this book is where the action really sings. And I had forgotten the ending, particularly the bit about the older woman (I hope I am being nebulous enough). That was my favourite part of the book. So, with Darkness done we march onto Beautiful Chaos, with a vengeance. 5 out of 5 stars. I still love it, even with the drag. We all need a little drag in our lives, sometimes. - review courtesy of www.bibliopunkkreads.com ...more Oh, how I've missed you Gatlin. The one thing that really stands out to me about this series... isn't the incredible cast of characters or the engrossing story.... it's the setting. I LOVE GATLIN. I want to live there.... eat Amma's pies, ride in Link's Beater to the Dar-ee Keen, waft in the scent of lemon trees at Ravenwood. There is something truly addicting about Gatlin... and I often find it hard to withdrawal from the world within the pages. Beautiful Darkness is one word is intense. So much Oh, how I've missed you Gatlin. The one thing that really stands out to me about this series... isn't the incredible cast of characters or the engrossing story.... it's the setting. I LOVE GATLIN. I want to live there.... eat Amma's pies, ride in Link's Beater to the Dar-ee Keen, waft in the scent of lemon trees at Ravenwood. There is something truly addicting about Gatlin... and I often find it hard to withdrawal from the world within the pages. Beautiful Darkness is one word is intense. So much more happens to our beloved, Ethan and Lena. Beautiful Creatures was just the tip of the iceberg.... All that Caster information is well below the surface and I have a suspicion that Beautiful Darkness didn't even reveal it all. The plot was a little slow at times for me.... I knew we were getting to something huge, but it just felt like it took forever to get there! Although, it was totally worth all the suspense that had built up in those five hundred some pages. Loved the new characters in this novel! Liv and John.... and I loved how Link and Ridley took some of the focus too! I am very interested to see what these new characters have in store for us in the next two books! These are beautifully written novels and I truly admire Kami and Margie's talent! You ladies rock my world. This novel was great on its own... but I think it sets up something epic for book three. ...more WHAT ABOUT LIV??? Like Beautiful Creatures, this sequel drew me in with the lush, vivid descriptions and fascinating characters. However, Beautiful Darkness suffers from the same problems that plagued its predecessor: uneven pacing and a confusing ending that solves few of the problems that have been building up for 500 pages. And who am I kidding--I'm knocking off a star for my favorite character, Liv, who really gets shafted in this book. The delightful supporting cast is my favorite part of thi WHAT ABOUT LIV??? Like Beautiful Creatures, this sequel drew me in with the lush, vivid descriptions and fascinating characters. However, Beautiful Darkness suffers from the same problems that plagued its predecessor: uneven pacing and a confusing ending that solves few of the problems that have been building up for 500 pages. And who am I kidding--I'm knocking off a star for my favorite character, Liv, who really gets shafted in this book. The delightful supporting cast is my favorite part of this series. These two authors can be masters of characterization. From Amma, Marian, and Macon to Link, Ridley, and Liv, this series contains an impressive supporting cast of witty, brave, and loyal characters. These characters come alive for me, and I look forward to any scenes with them. Where the book struggles is with the leads. Ethan is a sweet voice for the story but perhaps not particularly realistic for a 16 year-old-boy. And I admit--I've never been crazy about Lena. The authors did such a good job having Lena push Ethan away that I didn't WANT Ethan to go back to Lena. I understood he needed to help her and would always be there for her, but I thought a teen paranormal novel would finally break from the predicable relationship pattern and provide a fresh twist...and that brings me to Liv. I adore Liv. She's brilliant, loyal, and caring, and she could have been the sunshine Ethan needed after so much darkness. By half way through the book, I was completely cheering for Ethan and Liv. I thought, \"Finally! We get a unique story where the guy and the girl (Ethan and Lena) DON'T end up together but everyone's still happy and the choices feel real.\" Nope. I thought for sure the book was establishing that you can find love again after loving someone you can't be with. Yeah, he'd always love Lena (like his Mom loved Macon) but he could find sunshine, warmth, love, and acceptance with someone else. I just loved how Ethan described Liv...how he said it felt like he'd known her forever, how easy and natural it was to be with her, how warm and caring she was. How could he throw that away to jump right back to Lena's cold, dark arms? I was beyond disappointed when in the wrap-up at the end, Liv was relegated to a few quick sentences after she sacrificed so much and had such a natural, healthy connection with Ethan. Was it just me, or did this book feel like it could have been about 100 pages shorter? I remember feeling that way when I read Beautiful Creatures, too. The world created by Garcia and Stohl is rich, captivating, and original; however, the pacing is uneven with huge chunks of the book that slow to a crawl and delve into talking about the same problems again and again and again (you get the point). And after reading SO MUCH about the problems and conflicts, you expect a little resolution at the end. Nope. Just more confusing, vague endings that aren't really endings at all and more \"choices\" that aren't really choices. At the end, didn't you feel like you were back where you were at the end of Beautiful Creatures? After 1000+ pages, I really need a little resolution, here, instead of dragging out the same problem for two books. Will I read the next installment? Yes, but I hope the authors provide a real ending at some point. There's a way to end a book (that's part of a series) where the reader feels satisfied and it feels like an ending, and yet the door is open for sequels. I hope at some point the books in this series can give readers this kind of a satisfying ending. (And here's to hoping Liv gets an ending she deserves.) ...more Another enjoyable book from Kami Garcia and Margaret Stohl! Yay! I must admit, Beautiful Darkness took much longer for me to get into than Beautiful Creatures . Garcia and Stohl tend to throw plenty of description and information at the reader for the first three hundred pages, and makes you think, How is this all going to come together? However, they weave that into a heart-stopping climax that makes you regret ever doubting them in the first place. This novel is quite different that the last boo Another enjoyable book from Kami Garcia and Margaret Stohl! Yay! I must admit, Beautiful Darkness took much longer for me to get into than Beautiful Creatures . Garcia and Stohl tend to throw plenty of description and information at the reader for the first three hundred pages, and makes you think, How is this all going to come together? However, they weave that into a heart-stopping climax that makes you regret ever doubting them in the first place. This novel is quite different that the last book. For the most part, the setting is very different, and the romance between Ethan and Lena is no longer at center stage. No complaints here, since I loved the development of the Caster world and look forward to seeing more of it in future installments. My favorite thing about Beautiful Creatures was its cozy, Southern setting and characters. In Beautiful Darkness , like I said, the setting may be different some of the time, but the characters are still there. I loved the development of some of the supporting characters. Ridley was probably my favorite character from the last book, so seeing her become one of the main characters in this novel was refreshing. And, even though they only seemed to be used for the progression of the plot, the additions of Liv and John were nice, too. Oh, and Lucille the cat is very present in this book, too. What's not to love about that? Lena was absent for long stretches of this book, and I must admit, I did miss her. Some loathe her character, but I find her to be a refreshing change of pace from all the other YA heroines out there (-cough- Bella, Ever, Luce, Zoey -cough-). Also, I know some do not like Ethan\u2019s point of view because they feel he is not a realistic teenager, but I don\u2019t think he is terribly unrealistic. Overall, these two authors fascinated me again; there\u2019s a reason why this is my favorite YA paranormal series. The cliffhanger ending left me staring at the page blankly (and angrily), and I cannot wait for the next installment. ...more If the whole book had been like the last 80 pages, it might have received a higher rating from me. Unfortunately, I just didn't enjoy the fact that the two main characters were pretty much separated for most of the story. Having to accompany Ethan on his journey to \"save\" Lena was a long, drawn out process. The group was searching, then back home, searching, then back home. I started skimming after a while. The highlight of Beautiful Darkness was the complicated relationship between Ridley and Lin If the whole book had been like the last 80 pages, it might have received a higher rating from me. Unfortunately, I just didn't enjoy the fact that the two main characters were pretty much separated for most of the story. Having to accompany Ethan on his journey to \"save\" Lena was a long, drawn out process. The group was searching, then back home, searching, then back home. I started skimming after a while. The highlight of Beautiful Darkness was the complicated relationship between Ridley and Link. I am interested to see what happens between these two, especially after the ending left me questioning Ridley's motives yet again. ...more Rating: 5 Stars My Opinion of this Book: WOW. This one definitely surprised me. A lot of improvement over the first book. __________________________________________________ I'll be honest, I wasn't expecting much from this book. Yeah, the first book was good, but that's it, it was just good. I couldn't get into Beautiful Creatures until over the 250 page mark, it was so slowwwwww. The ending on that one is what saved the book for me. But damn was I shocked when I read Beautiful Darkness ! Sure, it Rating: 5 Stars My Opinion of this Book: WOW. This one definitely surprised me. A lot of improvement over the first book. __________________________________________________ I'll be honest, I wasn't expecting much from this book. Yeah, the first book was good, but that's it, it was just good. I couldn't get into Beautiful Creatures until over the 250 page mark, it was so slowwwwww. The ending on that one is what saved the book for me. But damn was I shocked when I read Beautiful Darkness ! Sure, it took me a long time to read, but that's because I didn't want this book to end. I was hooked from the start and incredibly amazed by everything about this book. THE GOOD. \u25cf The Plot/Storyline: In the small southern town where nothing ever happened, everthing was suddenly crazy ever since <---C>Ethan Wate</---C> met Lena Duchannes, who showed him a secret world that was hidden right there all along. Curses, ancient secrets. After Lena suffers a tragic loss, she starts to pull away from Ethan, while he has strange visions that just bring him deeper into Gaitlin's scary history. Will their relationship go back to the normal? This book was definitely more fast-paced than the first and filled with unexpected plot twists and a cliffhanger ending that will leave you dying for more! \u25cf Ethan Wate: In the genre of YA, we don't see much of male POVs, and I am so glad that this one goes against the typical and has Ethan as our main character. I, personally, enjoy male POVs more than that of a females for some reason. And Ethan is no expectation! I absolutely adore him -his manners, his curiosity, his intelligence, etc. In my opinion, he's one of the best voices in YA. He's also definitely swoon-worthy. \u25cf John Breed: He's evil and everything bad, but how can you not like him? I mean, in the famous words of TayTay: \"He's so bad but he does it so well.\" ~Wildest Dreams \u25cf Link: Linkkkkkkk! This guy can lighten up the room and make people crack a smile even in the darkest times. Seriously, though, he's hilarious. Definitely a well crafted character! \u25cf Riley: We're used to seeing this cold-hearted side of Riley, but in this one we see a whole different side of her. We see this broken, wanting, girl. She still has her sassy moments though. I actually really liked her. \u25cf The Writing: The writing is just so -ABSOLUTELY FLAWLESS. These authors can never do me wrong with their writing. It's just so good and fitting. \u25cf The Ending: Such a surprise! Definitely a cliffhanger a.k.a. I need to get my hands on the next book!! THE BAD. \u25cf Lena: I'm sorry, but she was so whiny and annoying, like no, just stop. It's a good thing that she redeemed herself in the end though. OVERALL. I'd recommend this series, even though the first one may seem a bit dull, but you just have to continue with the series and it definitely gets better! ...more New mysterious student. Hot. Pale. Love story. Crap. Aren\u2019t we all tired of this formula at the beginning? Basically, from what I listed above, you could immediately think of twilight. Talking about it, it\u2019s really sad that lots of writers do influenced by twilight that no matter how original the concept they have, you could still notice stain from twilight. However, I\u2019m guessing the authors\u2019 references in making this book are the following: Twilight. I mentioned it already. Harry Potter. Remember the New mysterious student. Hot. Pale. Love story. Crap. Aren\u2019t we all tired of this formula at the beginning? Basically, from what I listed above, you could immediately think of twilight. Talking about it, it\u2019s really sad that lots of writers do influenced by twilight that no matter how original the concept they have, you could still notice stain from twilight. However, I\u2019m guessing the authors\u2019 references in making this book are the following: Twilight. I mentioned it already. Harry Potter. Remember the twist of Macon? It is the same twist applied into this book as what Rowling did to Severus Snape. Not to mention that Lila spelled like Lily. Percy Jackson and the Olympians. Come on tunnels! Who\u2019s your daddy now, Daedalus? Mortal Instruments. Simon was bit by a vampire, yet able to jerk around under the sun. Please tell me that Link couldn\u2019t do that too. Other things that I noticed aside from being unoriginal: The book has a rough transition that evokes every reader how it consists of two authors. Look at this, try to skip the first half of the book and you\u2019ll still understand the story because aside from transition, the story is sometimes redundant. The book has useless scenes and even chapters. As if they were inserted for the sake of making this book lengthy--unnoticing that it caused the book to become a package of boringness. Despite of the negas I\u2019d written, I liked this book. Why? The concept of this book is quite interesting. The classification of Supernaturals is unique, as well as their abilities. The chants were fascinating, too. The attack of twists was sudden, even though the clues were given. This book will let you create theories but you\u2019ll end up disappointed to yourself for finding out that you\u2019re wrong. Otherwise, you\u2019ll be surprised and amazed for you won\u2019t notice the twists are coming. Lastly, I liked this book because it somehow brag something despite of being judge of having unoriginal concepts\u2014the CASTER word itself, much more the world behind it. ...more After not being claimed for darkness like she feared, you would expect Lena to be happy to be able to stay with Ethan. However her guilt from her Uncle's death is threatening to consume her and causes Lena to pull further and further away from Ethan. When Ethan starts having mysterious visions again, this time without Lena, he knows she is in trouble, but he just isn't sure what the danger really is. When Lena really starts to take a turn for the worst, Ethan may just be the only person who can After not being claimed for darkness like she feared, you would expect Lena to be happy to be able to stay with Ethan. However her guilt from her Uncle's death is threatening to consume her and causes Lena to pull further and further away from Ethan. When Ethan starts having mysterious visions again, this time without Lena, he knows she is in trouble, but he just isn't sure what the danger really is. When Lena really starts to take a turn for the worst, Ethan may just be the only person who can save her from herself, but what happens when she doesn't want to be saved? The teen love angst was majorly stepped up in this book. It really surprises me to say this, but I actually think the angst added to the story. Usually this is something that will turn me off of a series, but it was handled perfectly in this book. Everything between Ethan and Lena is thoroughly strained, ripped, torn apart. It's almost as if all of their differences grew together and formed an impenetrable wall between the two of them. However, while the issues between them made for a terribly nail biting read, if they can overcome those obstacles, they will only come out the other side that much stronger. I really enjoy these two together and I hope their relationship will stand the test of time despite the road blocks along the way. A lot of questions get answered in this book. Many of those answers are ones you will never see coming. Things are really starting to come all together and the events in the past have woven a very intricate web to lead into the present. It's amazing to see how everything has led up to the current events, and its hard to believe there is still plenty we do not know. This book really has just the right amount of revelations to really keep the pace going, but it leaves plenty of mystery as well. This is a really fine line to follow, and can be one of my biggest pet peeves in a book. Too little information and the book is very frustrating, but too many revelations can become boring as there is no mystery left. I am very impressed with the way this series is progressing and handling the \"information and mystery\" issues. If you thought the stakes were high in the first book, this one steps it up that much further. Be prepared to sit on the edge of your seat the entire book. I couldn't read it any faster! This book will definitely grip you every bit as hard as the first one. After the revelations in this book, I cannot imagine the direction the next book will have to take. If you enjoyed the first book, this one surely will not disappoint. If you are anything like me, as soon as you finish this book, you will be counting down until the next one. ...more Beautiful Darkness is a very much appropriate title. Beautiful Darkness started very dark. The darkness of melancholy, grief and sorrow. And I can't blame Lena for being so emotional with the loss. I knew the feeling, to be honest. Then the following chapters continued to go dark. Darkness as in real darkness. There are interesting characters that has been summoned in this second book of the Beautiful Creatures series: LIV: She is actually my favorite in here. Her wit and knowledge contributed a l Beautiful Darkness is a very much appropriate title. Beautiful Darkness started very dark. The darkness of melancholy, grief and sorrow. And I can't blame Lena for being so emotional with the loss. I knew the feeling, to be honest. Then the following chapters continued to go dark. Darkness as in real darkness. There are interesting characters that has been summoned in this second book of the Beautiful Creatures series: LIV: She is actually my favorite in here. Her wit and knowledge contributed a lot for the sake of Ethan. At first, I considered her as a normal girl but it turned out she's not. JOHN BREED: I won't tell you what exactly he was but he's different. And my mind had this commotion right now thinking if he is in good side or not. ABRAHAM RAVENWOOD: The pioneer. The starter. *insert swear words* LEAH: A badass Succubus. And other new interesting characters like Lucille that has a vital role in the story. Okay, I almost forgot. There are lot of mysteries slash revelations slash twists slash turns slash revelations again that made me think my brain is a time bomb ticking ready to explode. What sorcery is this! I can't contain what I've found out at first but in the end I managed to enclosed it in my brain. Actually, a lot of times I witnessed myself swearing. I really enjoyed the book and the feeling it Casted on me. :) ...more I am sorry to say it was a disappointment. The first book had moments of pacing difficulties but here they seemed to spiral out of control. There was no real beginning, middle or end to the story; it all just dragged out and felt like it was pushed together out of scraps of story and scenes. This book is over 500 pages long and you feel each of those 500+ pages, especially since the plot seems to have wandered off somewhere. Everything wandered from one scene to another with no real order or poi I am sorry to say it was a disappointment. The first book had moments of pacing difficulties but here they seemed to spiral out of control. There was no real beginning, middle or end to the story; it all just dragged out and felt like it was pushed together out of scraps of story and scenes. This book is over 500 pages long and you feel each of those 500+ pages, especially since the plot seems to have wandered off somewhere. Everything wandered from one scene to another with no real order or point. A strict editor could easily have taken a hundred or so pages from this story. It wouldn\u2019t have been perfect but it would have flowed much easier. I really liked \u2018Beautiful Creatures\u2019 for a number of reasons as I mentioned above, but none of these things were present in this sequel \u2013 the mythos remains interesting and well crafted but it\u2019s so clumsily put into the story with giant chunks of show-don\u2019t-tell that it adds yet more speed-bumps to a story that desperately needs an energy boost. Ethan\u2019s narration remains likeable enough but there are more points in this story where he doesn\u2019t feel authentically male than in the previous story. Love stories may not be my favourite element in paranormal YA these days but it\u2019s still important to make me care about the romantic leads and I just didn\u2019t care about Lena in this story. Forget the fact that she\u2019s barely in half of it; when she is there her actions didn\u2019t do much to make me sympathise with her. In the previous book I understood her emotions and while I empathise to an extent here, her moments of ignorance, cruelty and just plain old stupidity drove me nuts. Stupidity should not drive the plot. This also left me wondering why the hell Ethan was so obsessively in love with Lena, especially since there were so many more interesting things about Ethan I wanted to know about, such as the return of his dad into his life after the events of the previous story. There were some small moments between Ethan and his dad where I really wanted to read more instead of that dreaded yet inevitable trope of the YA genre \u2013 the love triangle. Or rather a love square if I must be precise. With the added possible love interests in the story, I just didn\u2019t care if Ethan or Lena ended up with someone different, although I admit to liking Ethan\u2019s possible future English girlfriend Olivia more than I liked Lena. The moping and wondering just added more padding to a story that really doesn\u2019t need it. But what disappointed me most about \u2018Beautiful Darkness\u2019 was something missing from the first book \u2013 the atmosphere. Garcia and Stohl did a great job in capturing the claustrophobic feeling of being stuck in a small town where everybody knew everything and gossip could ruin your life. It was like a lighter Southern Gothic but every bit just as effective and it was completely missing in this book. There was no tension, no atmosphere, no foreboding sense of something suspicious in the foreground and the book seriously suffers for it. That\u2019s why this book was such a disappointment. I expected so much more and it just fell flat and didn\u2019t deliver. \u2018Beautiful Darkness\u2019 was such a letdown and I\u2019m so disappointed that it didn\u2019t live up to its predecessor. While the prose is still serviceable, the majority of the characters likeable and the mythos unique and interesting, the lack of plot, terrible pacing and lack of anything actually happening vastly outweigh the positives. If I\u2019m completely honest, a lot of the time it felt like Garcia and Stohl were making it up as they went along, and with news that the series will go onto book 4 with more possibly on the horizon, I can\u2019t see that as a good thing. The novel ends on a sort of (lazy contrived) cliff-hanger for book 3 which feels like the story is being dragged out like it\u2019s part of the Saw franchise, and beyond it being uninteresting and thrown together solely for sequel bait, the story can only suffer as a result. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ll be reading the rest of the \u2018Beautiful Creatures\u2019 series, I just don\u2019t care enough. ...more Oh. My. God. This was even better than the first one! I know that Lena was a major bitch and whiny like hell but it was so moving that I couldn't stop reading it. Even if I needed 5 days to finish it. Real world got in the way -.- Guess what? We have a love triangle! Surprise, surprise. I don't count John Breed as a part of any love interest (he's mine!!!!) so let's say that triangle consist of Lena, Ethan and someone else. You'll have to read the book to find out. Yes, I'm that evil. Though, in Oh. My. God. This was even better than the first one! I know that Lena was a major bitch and whiny like hell but it was so moving that I couldn't stop reading it. Even if I needed 5 days to finish it. Real world got in the way -.- Guess what? We have a love triangle! Surprise, surprise. I don't count John Breed as a part of any love interest (he's mine!!!!) so let's say that triangle consist of Lena, Ethan and someone else. You'll have to read the book to find out. Yes, I'm that evil. Though, in the end, it didn't feel like there was some sort of a love triangle at all. New characters, new characters! Dead ones coming to life again. Old ones losing their powers and gaining some new ones. Surprising secrets. Action waiting behind every corner. People, you gotta read this!!! Like with every main female character in sequels, Lena was a whiny one. Seriously, all that whining about her being different and not accepted and undecided is so exhausting. Give me a break, would ya?! I have a feeling it's going to become even worse because \"oh, god, I've changed everything! What am I supposed to do?!?!\".... Beside Lena, everything else was great. There were so many secrets discovered in this that I don't know how I was able to take it all in. That's what made this book so interesting. But I still think that authors saved a lot more for next books. Can Ridley and Link get together already? Guess not. Going to impatiently wait for my wallet to magically fill itself up so I can buy the next one in the series... ...more **Warning: I don't believe that this contains spoilers, but you're the judge. If you don't want to read it in fear the book will be spoiled for you, please don't. I don't want to be held accountable.** BEAUTIFUL DARKNESS. The name itself just hints at the possibilities of the story. What's beautiful? What's dark? Is it Dark, emphasis on the capital 'D?' (All of you BEAUTIFUL CREATURES fans out there will understand that.) Well, I can't tell you. I'm very sorry. This book comes out in October, so you **Warning: I don't believe that this contains spoilers, but you're the judge. If you don't want to read it in fear the book will be spoiled for you, please don't. I don't want to be held accountable.** BEAUTIFUL DARKNESS. The name itself just hints at the possibilities of the story. What's beautiful? What's dark? Is it Dark, emphasis on the capital 'D?' (All of you BEAUTIFUL CREATURES fans out there will understand that.) Well, I can't tell you. I'm very sorry. This book comes out in October, so you can find out then. Wait. I take that back. I can't tell you everything . Ethan has a problem. His girlfriend, Caster Lena, is pulling away from him. He has no idea what to do. She seems to be moving towards Ridley, her Dark Siren of a cousin, with whom she used to be almost as close as a sister. Ethan can't figure out why. Lena postponed her Claiming as a Dark or Light Caster on her Sixteenth Moon in BEAUTIFUL CREATURES, but how much longer can she put it off? Well, it turns out, only until her Seventeenth Moon. This book is all about the journey Ethan takes to get back his love and how everyone and everything else in his wake changes, plus Lena's tough decision and what it takes to make it. Though it frustrated me that it set itself up for another book, this book still made it into the Emily's Favorite Books Hall of Fame . Read BEAUTIFUL DARKNESS. Trust me. It's a good one. ...more The Caster CHronicles are going to be the next HArry POTTer Series,seriously.Amazing!!!!!Very colourfull characters,full of secrets,revelations,plot twists.Uhm...the new adds (wont say anything) are tremendous.I can't say anything because it will be full of spoilers.just get to the end.I am a huge fan,i believe that this can become a fantastic film.Du no..... fantastic writters plot. etch etch.Just amazing and much more better than the fantastic first one.In a few words:THUMBS UP!!!! ps.Sorry i c The Caster CHronicles are going to be the next HArry POTTer Series,seriously.Amazing!!!!!Very colourfull characters,full of secrets,revelations,plot twists.Uhm...the new adds (wont say anything) are tremendous.I can't say anything because it will be full of spoilers.just get to the end.I am a huge fan,i believe that this can become a fantastic film.Du no..... fantastic writters plot. etch etch.Just amazing and much more better than the fantastic first one.In a few words:THUMBS UP!!!! ps.Sorry i cant reveal anything because what got my attention is that every page has a spoiler to the story.if u read it u'll get what i want to say.DEfinetelly a re-read for me!! ...more What a sombre, dreary beginning. That was my first update on this book and unfortunately the first 200 pages are just that: Sombre, dreary, with lots of crying and sadness. I wanted to like this book. I really did. I liked its predecessor Beautiful Creatures. But this book just didn\u2019t do it for me. Why the 3 star rating? There were a lot of things that I did enjoy in the book: I liked the Caster magic and lore. Every reference to Caster magic was interesting and well thought out. I liked that the What a sombre, dreary beginning. That was my first update on this book and unfortunately the first 200 pages are just that: Sombre, dreary, with lots of crying and sadness. I wanted to like this book. I really did. I liked its predecessor Beautiful Creatures. But this book just didn\u2019t do it for me. Why the 3 star rating? There were a lot of things that I did enjoy in the book: I liked the Caster magic and lore. Every reference to Caster magic was interesting and well thought out. I liked that the Caster world existed in plain sight of our world. I liked how each member of Lena\u2019s family had different abilities. The cultural references were fun. There were references to the prime directive from Star Trek, Superman\u2019s kryptonite, even Aquaman. Sadly, there were no references to Scooby Doo, the one cartoon show that seemed to fit in well especially when the gang was in the spooky Caster tunnels. (Thank you, Greta for that image!) The secondary characters were amazing. I enjoyed Link\u2019s happy-go-lucky go with the flow character. Link also had special skills in the lock picking field. While his language was not necessarily representative of an average 17 year old boy, Link provided some much needed comic relief. Liv was an interesting character. Not one to follow the prime directive or Marian\u2019s annoying non-interference policy, Liv was a great resource of information for Ethan. She also provided a sexy, British accented, secondary love interest for Ethan as well. Yes, the love triangle has made an appearance. The best surprise was Ridley. I\u2019ll just leave it as that so as not to spoil the story. Special mention goes to Lucille Ball, the Caster cat. There were a lot more things that I disliked about this book. First of all, it was way too long and could have been edited down. It was a slow read for me. Nothing really happens in the first 200 pages except that the main characters are mopey and sad. How many 17 year old boys cry as much as Ethan does? I hated Lena in this book. I felt absolutely no connection to her. I wanted Ethan to hook up with Liv. She would have made a better match for him. I really did not understand why Ethan\u2019s father was returned to the story. Was it so that he could have the birds and the bees talk with Ethan? Right after that, he seems to disappear into his study yet again. While I enjoyed the exciting conclusion to the book, I was disappointed with the last page. I kept turning the page and when it kept coming up blank, I was mad. When I saw a reference to 18 moons, all I could think about was another book was coming. ...more Loved this! Beautiful Darkness is like drinking a cup of hot cocoa. It's rich, smooth and made to be drunk read slowly to savor ever delicious word. Struggling with the loss of her Uncle's death, Lena is very different from the first book. In a nut shell? She's lost. Very.Very Lost. I have to admit, I was pretty frustrated with her character through out most of this book, but her journey was necessary to find her true path. Ethan totally owned this one. His love, his strength and his courage was som Loved this! Beautiful Darkness is like drinking a cup of hot cocoa. It's rich, smooth and made to be drunk read slowly to savor ever delicious word. Struggling with the loss of her Uncle's death, Lena is very different from the first book. In a nut shell? She's lost. Very.Very Lost. I have to admit, I was pretty frustrated with her character through out most of this book, but her journey was necessary to find her true path. Ethan totally owned this one. His love, his strength and his courage was something to be proud of. I loved the new twists concerning his role. Brilliant! This series is one of my all time favorites. It's filled with wonderful Southern charm. Thick surrounding's. Magical and mysterious characters and a concept so rich you could taste it. Lots of surprises happen. New characters and a bunch of new twists to get your mind spinning. I was completely intrigued and loved every second of this Amazing world. More Please! ...more After roughly a year and a half, I though it was time to visit Gatlin,South Carolina again.I dove into the second book in the Beautiful Creatures series. Lena Duchannes has just come back from the horrific fire under the sixteenth moon, that claimed the life of her beloved Uncle Macon. Her guilt over being the cause of his death pushes her over the edge and she has run away with a strange and powerful Caster.Ethan, fresh from having his life saved in said horrific fire, is stung by Lena's seemi After roughly a year and a half, I though it was time to visit Gatlin,South Carolina again.I dove into the second book in the Beautiful Creatures series. Lena Duchannes has just come back from the horrific fire under the sixteenth moon, that claimed the life of her beloved Uncle Macon. Her guilt over being the cause of his death pushes her over the edge and she has run away with a strange and powerful Caster.Ethan, fresh from having his life saved in said horrific fire, is stung by Lena's seeming rejection of him. And Link, Ethan's best buddy stands by his friend and continues to be the comedic foil as they embark on a quest to save Lena from herself. It is what it has been, over the top teenage angst. However,this book gives more depth to the the adult and senior citizen set of the strange little town. People are not always what they appear to be. And the other worldly Casters and their very strange family tree branch off in new directions. The book dragged at times, but over all it was a decent sophomore effort. And the kids have just finished their sophomore year. At the end of the book, they are anticipating their junior year. So will begin Book three I presume. ...more Okay, so it has taken me awhile to finish this book. Part of that can definitely be attributed to the fact that school + work = precious little time for pleasure reading...unfortunately, the larger problem was that I just simply never felt like reading it. There were many problems with this book- Ethan again, is quite girlish, and because it's been nearly a year since reading Beautiful Creatures , there were times when I genuinely had no idea what was going on. But none of these things were the l Okay, so it has taken me awhile to finish this book. Part of that can definitely be attributed to the fact that school + work = precious little time for pleasure reading...unfortunately, the larger problem was that I just simply never felt like reading it. There were many problems with this book- Ethan again, is quite girlish, and because it's been nearly a year since reading Beautiful Creatures , there were times when I genuinely had no idea what was going on. But none of these things were the leading factor as to why I didn't care for this book... It is a fatal mistake in my mind when, concerning a romantic relationship, you put your characters together too early. This same thing CONTINUALLY happens throughout YA lit...Ethan & Lena together and happy at the end of Beautiful Creatures , Edward & Bella, same thing at the end of Twilight , Patch & Nora in Hush, Hush ...need I go on? The problem in doing this, is that if you want to continue the series, you're then going to have to rip the lovers apart, to create some purpose for a second, third, fourth book- which never ceases to wreck the validity of the relationship for me from then on. It was no big shock, when in Beautiful Darkness, Lena begins \"pulling away\" as one of the characters always has to do, leaving the main character heartbroken and alone for the majority of the book. The worst part of this whole idea is that the main character, in this case, Ethan, in his despair, not only makes excuses for the partner that left him, but tries desperately to convince himself and the audience that it was \"really his fault she left anyway.\" I marked a few pages displaying his self-loathing over her abandonment, but here's the worst one: \"I thought about how it seemed painful for her to look at me. No wonder she felt guilty. No wonder she ran. I wondered if she could ever stand to look at me again. Lena had done it all because of me. It wasn't her fault. It was mine.\" I'm so sick of teenagers believing it's okay not only to fall apart over a \"breakup\" (which yes, the fact that there are supernatural elements involved doesn't mean the situation is anything more than two teenage kids breaking up) but that they have to somehow rationalize that someone who wronged them isn't really in the wrong. It's a sick and unhealthy thought process that should not be glamorized or especially CONFIRMED in the end, which it is here. Of course. I will always hold the Ron/Hermione pairing to a standard of perfection. It took seven books to get them together but it was ridiculously worth the wait. And because it happened in the conclusion, there was no need to pull them apart again in order to create more drama. Sure, they hurt one another throughout the series, but that was all through the process of realizing they loved each other, not after they'd declared their love and decided to go back on it. I wish more authors would mimic Ms. Rowling's genius here, offering a payoff that's actually worth something. You will notice that I've given this book two stars, rather than one. Two reasons: Link and Ridley. Link legitimately made me laugh out loud a few times- particularly with his confusion over the words \"necromancer\" and \"necrophiliac.\" And the revelation concerning him in the end almost has me wanting to read the next book. Guess I'll have to see how I feel when it comes out. Anyway, Link and Ridley's relationship offers much more substance than the two leads, and was enough to push me into the two star range. ...more 3.5 stars - I was so hesitant to pick this up after I really didn't enjoy the 1st one, but it proved me wrong. It still was a light read, not too much thinking needed, quite the simple story (i.e. many turns in the story happened because of random people showing up out of nowhere helping the main character). What I liked was how easy the story read. I caught myself reading, reading, reading until there were another 100 pages done. Another thing I enjoyed was that the annoying teenage relationshi 3.5 stars - I was so hesitant to pick this up after I really didn't enjoy the 1st one, but it proved me wrong. It still was a light read, not too much thinking needed, quite the simple story (i.e. many turns in the story happened because of random people showing up out of nowhere helping the main character). What I liked was how easy the story read. I caught myself reading, reading, reading until there were another 100 pages done. Another thing I enjoyed was that the annoying teenage relationship drama was kept to a minimum (because the female main character was absent for most of the book..). Ethan really was a great guy to read about, and very realistic in his actions and feelings. He was mad, angry, frustrated at just the right things and never came across whiny or irrationally forgiving. I liked the side characters like Link and Olivia. They added a nice extra element and some more interest to the story. I will be continuing with the series since this turned out to be such an easy and quick read. My inner nerd wants me to end the entire story haha ...more Beautiful Creatures dazzled me. A well-deserved 5 stars. Beautiful Darkness is also a very special book and a terrific read. What took BD down to 4 stars for me was that it took me the first 200 pages to really get into the story and take off flying to finish the rest. The story was not bad by any means, but Lena was kind of irritating in this book -- the girl is certainly dealing with a lot of issues. I adore the unique supporting characters. Loved the addition of Liv. Amma is the greatest. You Beautiful Creatures dazzled me. A well-deserved 5 stars. Beautiful Darkness is also a very special book and a terrific read. What took BD down to 4 stars for me was that it took me the first 200 pages to really get into the story and take off flying to finish the rest. The story was not bad by any means, but Lena was kind of irritating in this book -- the girl is certainly dealing with a lot of issues. I adore the unique supporting characters. Loved the addition of Liv. Amma is the greatest. You can just FEEL the south in these books. Very excited to continue on with this series. ...more I loved this book. Definitaly worth the wait. There were parts where I laughed, parts where I cried, parts where I screamed. This book has it all! 3 Better Stars I am still having a hard time reading this series\u2026 and an even harder time reviewing it\u2026. However, it is getting better\u2026[ [book:Beautiful Darkness|7842288](Caster Chronicles #2) BY Kami Garcia Lissa\u2019s Second Hardest Review Ever As hard as this series is for me to read I have to admit that book two was much better than boon one. I managed to finish it in 15 hours verses the 21 hours it took me to read book one. Just like the first book as things started to escalate the author wo 3 Better Stars I am still having a hard time reading this series\u2026 and an even harder time reviewing it\u2026. However, it is getting better\u2026[ [book:Beautiful Darkness|7842288](Caster Chronicles #2) BY Kami Garcia Lissa\u2019s Second Hardest Review Ever As hard as this series is for me to read I have to admit that book two was much better than boon one. I managed to finish it in 15 hours verses the 21 hours it took me to read book one. Just like the first book as things started to escalate the author would slam on the brakes and fill the pages with repetitive hints of chapters past. Apparently, the author think people reading her books are idiots. After reading the first two books I think it would have been better if the author cut most of the weight out of both books and combined them into one. Just as in book, one I had a hard time keeping myself focused on the book. The story line was better drafted and tried to draw me\u2014 almost successfully. However once again I found the authors slamming on the breaks. I also had a better time seeing some of the characters and feeling for them. I was shocked to learn that Macon\u2019s Janie was Ethan\u2019s mom. However, I expected to find out that Ethan was Macon\u2019s son due to Ethan\u2019s abilities and was elated to find out I was wrong. None of the characters captured me whole heartedly thus far. I am not even sure half the time if I have, their names correct without having to check back through the kindle. Nevertheless, if I had to pick one favorite character it would be the sister\u2019s. I know they were just a filler part but they had me cracking up. I love it when old people are funny. None of the characters captured me whole-heartedly in book one that changed for book two. The way the authors weaved the love story of Macon and Janie left me puzzled; asking will there ever be a way for them to be together again with magic? In addition, Link and Ridley grew on me and with the changes both of them will be facing in book, three has me speculating where the story will lead. Which is what I think, the author was hoping for her readers due to the ending. That said, the series is getting much better. I honestly can\u2019t wait to see where the authors are taking the story. ...more I wanted to like this book so bad. I quite enjoyed the first one, I thought Beautiful Creatures was a much needed break from the tedious plots in YA fantasy fiction. This one, well, not so much. Let me get my gripes out of the way right off the bat. What\u2019s it called when in a plot the protagonist is faced with an insurmountable problem and then all the sudden the author creates a seemingly random solution without any prior mention of the solutions existence? I know there is a name for this but I I wanted to like this book so bad. I quite enjoyed the first one, I thought Beautiful Creatures was a much needed break from the tedious plots in YA fantasy fiction. This one, well, not so much. Let me get my gripes out of the way right off the bat. What\u2019s it called when in a plot the protagonist is faced with an insurmountable problem and then all the sudden the author creates a seemingly random solution without any prior mention of the solutions existence? I know there is a name for this but I can\u2019t remember it. For example the protagonist is faced with a army of zombies intent upon his brains with his back to a cliff with no other option but to jump to his death or be eaten, and then all the sudden an eagle swoops down and saves him. Where this eagle came from or why he would want to save the protagonist has not been hinted to or mentioned prior to this point. Whatever this is called, this technique was way overused in Beautiful Darkness . It's called Deus ex machina . (thank you Chance) One of my favorite things in Beautiful Creatures was Lena and her relationship/interactions with Ethan. In this installment in the Caster Chronicles Lena was a big (view spoiler) [bitch (hide spoiler) ] and her and Ethan were hardly around each other at all until the end, so 2 of the things that made this series great in my eyes were eliminated. (view spoiler) [And what was up with Liv, did anyone else really like her only to have Ethan break her heart and ruin her future? That part didn\u2019t sit well with me at all. (hide spoiler) ] On the positive side, There were some cool action scenes in this book, but not as many as I was hoping for. Amma is still awesome, she is still one of my favorite characters. I want to try her pies! Of course there is Macon, who can say no to a book with a suave southern gentleman? And Link just simply cracks me up. I really do love the characters in these books. That, and because I liked the first one is why I am going to give it 3 stars instead of 2. I don\u2019t know if I will read the Beautiful Chaos . At least, I am not planning on rushing off to the book store or library to get it. I will wait and see if it is released in audiobook format at my library and then if I have nothing else to read, I will check it out. ...more Full review on Reader's Dialogue: http://readersdialogueblogspot.com I was very disappointed with this sequel to Beautiful Creatures. Everything I loved about the first book is gone from the second, and the things that bothered me about the first book are magnified in the second. The slow beginning of Beautiful Creatures put me off a bit, but once I got into the story, that little pest faded away and I became involved with the characters. In Beautiful Darkness, I had a hard time getting back into Full review on Reader's Dialogue: http://readersdialogueblogspot.com I was very disappointed with this sequel to Beautiful Creatures. Everything I loved about the first book is gone from the second, and the things that bothered me about the first book are magnified in the second. The slow beginning of Beautiful Creatures put me off a bit, but once I got into the story, that little pest faded away and I became involved with the characters. In Beautiful Darkness, I had a hard time getting back into the story (partly because I didn't remember exactly what had happened at the end of Beautiful Creatures and the second book does not give any sort of recap), and by the time I got to page 250, I was thinking - OK, so Lena is going dark, Ethan still loves her and wants to save her. Now what? There's way too much downtime, too much time passing without any real development and progression of the plot. Besides, what I loved about the first book was Lena and Ethan's relationship, and that was totally gone from most of the book. At the beginning, they're together but pulling apart, and then they have nothing to do with each other for a while. But even at the very beginning, when their relationship is about the same, the spark is gone, and I didn't feel like rooting for them. In addition to the downtime and lack of emotional attachment, there's a lot of telling instead of showing in the second book. There are bits of exposition interspersed in the recounting of what is happening at the moment, and this totally detracts from the story. It messes with the pacing, too, since there are bursts of frantic chapters and reeaally slow chapters. I'll confess - I didn't read the book all the way through. After I got to page 250 last week, I decided I had to force myself to finish even though I had no interest in doing so, because I can't review the book if I haven't read it through. But today, forcing myself to turn each page was torture. So at one point, I flipped to the end and read the last twenty pages. I didn't intend to read all the way to the end, I just wanted to see where things were going, but I read till the last page. Here's the thing: I was able to understand everything that was going on, even though I'd missed out on over a hundred pages. That shouldn't be able to happen in a really good book. It means that the authors took pages and pages to say what could've been condensed into much less - which is what I was thinking about the beginning of the book. So all in all, not very satisfying. ...more id love an ARC of this book! ************* Drama, drama, drama... Everything that was good in Beautiful Creatures is used in Beautiful Darkness then magnified. I've said it before; I'll say it again: a lot of description/vivid. Does this make for a boring read? Nope. Some people say, there was a tad too much description that slowed the story down. May be so, but I still think the descriptions added to the gothic atmosphere. Also, BD picked up where BC left off, progressed as expected and answered id love an ARC of this book! ************* Drama, drama, drama... Everything that was good in Beautiful Creatures is used in Beautiful Darkness then magnified. I've said it before; I'll say it again: a lot of description/vivid. Does this make for a boring read? Nope. Some people say, there was a tad too much description that slowed the story down. May be so, but I still think the descriptions added to the gothic atmosphere. Also, BD picked up where BC left off, progressed as expected and answered a lot of my questions. And yet, Im oddly dissatisfied: a) What had gotten into Lena? In BC, I respected her becasue she was quite tough. In BD, well... While I completely understand where she's coming from (mourning,) I could not stomach her lashing out at Ethan. What happened to their true love? Why the sudden, \"You can't understand because we aren't the same?\" b) IN BC, I found Ethan a novel narrator different from most others. But BD failed to let me feel that way. Here I felt bad for him. I suppose I felt what Link felt whenever he'd ask Ethan about Lena... (\"She treats you like other girls normally treat me...\")I felt he was giving too much and getting too little in return(whipped?) ************* to be continued... right now id give it a 3.. not done yet.. ************* BD reminded me of Halo. The first part was just _____ then the last part was pow! Too little, too late? I would not got that far. In fact there are a lot of plus points here: the last quarter of the book picked up the pace, Link, Boo and Amma... ************* ...more This book really gave me a new appreciation for love triangles. Usually, when I'm reading a book, the main character/speaker is the one choosing between two people. And, as the reader, I LOVE to have an opinion on who the character should end up with. Reading from the perspective of someone who is one of the options is so much more frustrating. I found myself angry at Lena because she was giving Ethan the cold shoulder. (I suddenly feel bad for all those characters in other books...). On another This book really gave me a new appreciation for love triangles. Usually, when I'm reading a book, the main character/speaker is the one choosing between two people. And, as the reader, I LOVE to have an opinion on who the character should end up with. Reading from the perspective of someone who is one of the options is so much more frustrating. I found myself angry at Lena because she was giving Ethan the cold shoulder. (I suddenly feel bad for all those characters in other books...). On another note, I thought Beautiful Creatures was crazy, but I didn't know crazy until Beautiful Darkness . My mind was seriously blown with every advance in this book. (view spoiler) [Ethan is a Wayward? Ethan's mom was in love with Macon? John Breed is some sort of hybrid? Abraham is alive? Ridley lost her powers? Lucille is a Caster animal? Macon is alive? LINK IS AN INCUBUS?! Mind. Blown. (hide spoiler) ] My mind was so blown by this book that I refuse to even try to speculate what's going to happen in the next book because if I think something is going to happen, I'm just going to be more surprised by what happens. (Not that this is a bad thing. It's totally great. I love not being able to predict what's going to happen (Unlike Ethan when he watches movies... Ha, I think I'm funny)). I can't wait to see what happens in Beautiful Chaos . Hopefully there is some more Ridley/Link action and more information about the mysterious John Breed! ...more I LOVE the endings to these books, they are the sole reason why I trudge through the three hundred or so other pages that make up the exposition. The accumulation of all the conflict and suspense and foreshadowing into about one hundred to two hundred pages is absolutely amazing. Beautiful Darkness had the same problem as Beautiful Creatures - it was too long, at least for my taste. I felt like the plot was not as believable as the first book in terms of withheld information, and there were more I LOVE the endings to these books, they are the sole reason why I trudge through the three hundred or so other pages that make up the exposition. The accumulation of all the conflict and suspense and foreshadowing into about one hundred to two hundred pages is absolutely amazing. Beautiful Darkness had the same problem as Beautiful Creatures - it was too long, at least for my taste. I felt like the plot was not as believable as the first book in terms of withheld information, and there were more minor inconsistencies. I liked learning more about Gaitlin's mysterious past, and how even some of the most seemingly unaware people played a part. As for character favorites, I have to go with Link and Ridley, because I cannot resist the helpless guy and powerful girl. I hope the next installment might be cut down about a hundred pages, or have the plot speed up some. Overall, pretty great, and the ending was like an atomic bomb going off inside my head. ...more", "Title": "Beautiful Darkness"},
