{"Comments": "This was shaping up to be a 3-star book for me because Stephanie decides to stop being a bounty hunter and goes from stupid job to stupid job in her search for something different. I was pretty meh on that part because she didn't quit for the right reasons. She has literally been tortured in past books, but that didn't make her reevaluate her career choice. If someone had me tied down and was burning me with a hot poker I would consider the button factory then, but she didn't even slow down or h This was shaping up to be a 3-star book for me because Stephanie decides to stop being a bounty hunter and goes from stupid job to stupid job in her search for something different. I was pretty meh on that part because she didn't quit for the right reasons. She has literally been tortured in past books, but that didn't make her reevaluate her career choice. If someone had me tied down and was burning me with a hot poker I would consider the button factory then, but she didn't even slow down or have PTSD after that (<---B>a few books ago</---B>). even a warm poker would have me running for the hills! She quits because she is tired of being shitty at her job, basically. Because she is always getting thrown in trash and getting her clothes dirty and crap in her hair.<---F> That's the reason</---F>. It just didn't feel real. It felt like the author just wanted to change things up for a bit so let's watch Stephanie bumble through silly jobs instead for a book. yeah, that's a problem too.. But, I had to add a star because I fell completely in love with Ranger in this book. He's always been sexy and mysterious, but in this one he shows so much more. He really cares about Stephanie, and I think they would make a better couple than her and Morelli. She can't stand the boring monotony of everyday life that Morelli wants to provide. She goes crazy trying to fit into that mold. She needs the danger and constant movement of Ranger's life. And, Ranger needs her for some levity in his life or else he would be just too intense. Like a fire that burns too bright. He would just blind all of us. And, he's so hot that he's already burning up the pages. I get hot flashes when I'm reading his dialogue. (No, it's not menopause! Shut up!) More like spontaneous combustion.. Ranger and Morelli already have a time-share plan when it comes to Stephanie's safety. They seem to tag-team it when she is in danger - which is most of the time. And, it seems that Morelli is even considering time-sharing in other areas when it comes to her: \"Look at the short shirt. Are you going to let me go to work like this?\" \"Cupcake, I haven't got the energy to stop you. anyway,<---M> maybe if you look slutty enough</---M>, Ranger will take up some of the slack in the bedroom before you make a permanent cripple out of me...\" See? Now that would be Stephanie having her cake and eating it too. She loves cake! mmmm, cake... ...more <---C>Joe Morelli</---C> is right. Stephanie Plum is a danger magnet. Because even when she quits her job as a bounty hunter she is still wrecking havok all over town. With no income she needs a new job and manages to go through three different ones in three days after being fired for being late, shooting up a cleaners and burning down the Cluck-a-Bucket. So what else can she do but work for hot bounty hunter extraodinaire Ranger? With a nice safe desk job, right? But that still doesn't keep her out of troub Joe Morelli is right. Stephanie Plum is a danger magnet. Because even when she quits her job as a bounty hunter she is still wrecking havok all over town. With no income she needs a new job and manages to go through three different ones in three days after being fired for being late, shooting up a cleaners and burning down the Cluck-a-Bucket. So what else can she do but work for hot bounty hunter extraodinaire Ranger? With a nice safe desk job, right? But that still doesn't keep her out of trouble (or Morelli and Ranger) As an added bonus Steph gives up sweets and turns into a sex-crazed maniac...much to the glee and soon dismay of her two would-be suitors. One of my favorites of the series! And my favorite part... \"When I came back Morelli was asleep with his head on the table. I put a mug of coffee in front of him, and he opened an eye. 'You have to open both eyes,' I said. 'You're going to work today. Laski's picking you up in five minutes.' 'That give me five minutes to sleep,' Morelli said. 'No! Drink some coffee. Get some legal stimulants into your system.' I danced in front of him. 'Loook at me. I'm wearing a gun! And look at this short shirt. Are you going to let me go to work like this?' 'Cupcake, I haven't got the energy to stop y ou. Anyway, maybe if you look slutty enough, Ranger will take up some of the slack in the bedroom before you make a permanent cripple out of me. Maybe you should wear that shirt with the neckline that lets your boobs hang out.' Morelli squinted at me. 'Why aren't you tired?' 'I don't know. I feel all energized. I always thought I couldn't keep up with you, but maybe you've just been slowing me down all these years.' 'Stephanie, I'm begging you. Eat some doughnuts. I can't keep going like this.'\" CLASSIC!! ...more I let someone at a library sale convince me to pick up a couple of her books, once she learned I'd never read the author. She handed me what felt like ten, and I discretely put a few back when she wasn't looking. Reading the back cover of this book, I kind of think I should've put this one back, too. Giving it a shot. ---- Color me shocked. I loved this character. I'm not exactly known for my grown up taste in books, nor for my appreciation of anything that comes close to \"chick lit\" (GOD, I hate I let someone at a library sale convince me to pick up a couple of her books, once she learned I'd never read the author. She handed me what felt like ten, and I discretely put a few back when she wasn't looking. Reading the back cover of this book, I kind of think I should've put this one back, too. Giving it a shot. ---- Color me shocked. I loved this character. I'm not exactly known for my grown up taste in books, nor for my appreciation of anything that comes close to \"chick lit\" (GOD, I hate that term). So, I really was expecting to hate this. Skimming the other reviews, I see a lot of complaints that the Stephanie Plum series is formulaic. Well, I read James Patterson, and let me tell you. Formulas are used for a reason. Stephanie Plum is a fantastic character. She's smart, effing hilarious, with just the right amount of imperfect, the right amount of self deprecation. She's not \"the greatest bounty hunter this little town's ever seen\", she doesn't like carrying a gun. She doesn't swoon over the two men she's involved with. No love triangle? No woe is me, what shall I do? No, \"No, no, Stephanie, you must choose!\" Why was I not reading these before? So, there you go. I'm a <---A>Janet Evanovich</---A> fan. Woo. ...more There is only so much a girl can take. And this girl has had enough! Enough of chasing bad guys, wrestling them to the ground, having them shoot at her and always ending up covered in garbage. So Stephanie Plum quits her job as a bounty hunter. She quickly finds out there are other jobs she is much worse at! She can\u2019t seem to keep a job. She temporarily works at the button factury, a fast food place, a dry cleaners, before landing a gig at a security company, with the very good looking Ranger as There is only so much a girl can take. And this girl has had enough! Enough of chasing bad guys, wrestling them to the ground, having them shoot at her and always ending up covered in garbage. So Stephanie Plum quits her job as a bounty hunter. She quickly finds out there are other jobs she is much worse at! She can\u2019t seem to keep a job. She temporarily works at the button factury, a fast food place, a dry cleaners, before landing a gig at a security company, with the very good looking Ranger as her boss. Assuming bad guys would stop coming after her once she left the bond enforcement world, she tries very hard to ignore the notes and gifts left for her by someone who she believed was dead. This girl cannot get away from danger and destruction\u2026 it keeps creeping up on her. While spending time trying to figure out what to do with her life, Stephanie also dwells on her sister\u2019s wedding, which she is dreading due to the vegetable dress she has to wear, and at which she has somehow volunteered to play the cello (not even sure what a cello is!); she nurses a wounded cop back to health; helps Lula out in her new career as a bounty hunter; and goes through a sugar detox. Fun book. Quick and easy read. Perfect to read at the beach or by the pool. Looking forward to the next one. ...more Romantic, Sexual Tension, Suspense & Funny!!! A Fun Read! I Loved It! The Stephanie Plum series by Janet Evanovich is incredible. Fun characters. Exhilarating mystery. Crimes to be solved. Lusts to be sated. <+++>Eleven on Top</+++> is a neat book. It is however, not on my top picks for this series. Nonetheless, the novel is amazing and I enjoyed every minute of it. Old men disappear and an old enemy keeps trying to blow Stephanie away. She has an idea who is behind the threats, but as Morelli and Ranger keep explaining to her, she has no evidence and is working based of \u2018supp The Stephanie Plum series by Janet Evanovich is incredible. Fun characters. Exhilarating mystery. Crimes to be solved. Lusts to be sated. <+++>Eleven on Top</+++> is a neat book. It is however, not on my top picks for this series. Nonetheless, the novel is amazing and I enjoyed every minute of it. Old men disappear and an old enemy keeps trying to blow Stephanie away. She has an idea who is behind the threats, but as Morelli and Ranger keep explaining to her, she has no evidence and is working based of \u2018supposedlies\u201d \u2026 Stephanie quit her job and suffers through other career options. The fragile and intense team effort between Ranger and Morelli becomes interesting when Stephanie accepts an office job by Ranger. Stephanie is one of my favorite characters ever. She is hilarious and is followed closely by Lula in the badass contest. I\u2019ve been stalked by crazed killers, taunted by naked fat men, firebombed, shot at, spat at, cussed at, chased by humping dogs, attacked by a flock of Canadian honkers, rolled in garbage, and my cars get destroyed at an alarming rate. Ranger is my sexy devil. I could snuggle in his bed and never get enough. Ranger is the mystery man. He\u2019s a half head taller than me, moves like a cat, kicks ass all day long, only wears black, smells warm and sexy, and is percent pure perfectly toned muscle. He gets his dark complexion and liquid brown eyes from Cuban ancestors. He was Special Forces, and that\u2019s about all anyone knows about Ranger. Mrs. Plum and Grandma Mazur finally have their special moment. If you have read the books in order, you will appreciate Mrs. Plum being licked silly from drinking and instigating a cake food fight with her mother and pulls in Stephanie and her father. \u201cExcuse me?\u201d my mother said. \u201cNo control? Did you say I had no control? I am the queen of control. Look at this family. I have a daughter in Disney World with oogly woogly smoochikins. I have a granddaughter who thinks she\u2019s a horse. I have a mother who thinks she\u2019s a teenager.\u201d My mother turned to me. \u201cAnd you! I don\u2019t know where to begin.\u201d \u201cThat\u2019s it,\u201d Grandma said, narrowing her eyes. \u201cEat dirt and die!\u201d And Grandma scooped up a wad of cake and icing and smushed it into my mother\u2019s face. \u201cI can\u2019t see!\u201d my mother shrieked. \u201cI\u2019m blind.\u201d She was wobbling around, flailing her arms. She lost her balance and fell against the table and into the cake. I recommend this book to everyone with a mature mind Some vague sexual content and interesting semi mild violent scenes. ~Happy reading! ...more Shake the other ten in a bag, dump out a bit at a time, & you get 11 !! We hate to say it, as some of the other ten were definitely amusing, but there's not much smile factor left in Plum et al that we haven't heard or seen before. While there is a smidge of a plot (four small business owners are missing, and Steph keeps getting threatening notes and cars bombed), one can almost predict the rest: Lulu can't get her bond jumpers, so eats fast food; Steph shacks up with Morelli (again) but hank Shake the other ten in a bag, dump out a bit at a time, & you get 11 !! We hate to say it, as some of the other ten were definitely amusing, but there's not much smile factor left in Plum et al that we haven't heard or seen before. While there is a smidge of a plot (four small business owners are missing, and Steph keeps getting threatening notes and cars bombed), one can almost predict the rest: Lulu can't get her bond jumpers, so eats fast food; Steph shacks up with Morelli (again) but hankers after Ranger all book; Grandma Mazur and the rest of the clan have a wedding cake food fight; Steph's several cars burn up or blow up; Bob the Dog tinkles on the lawn (wow!), etc. \"Eleven\" smacks of one of those books any of us could have written -- just take snippets out of each of the other ten, slap 'em together in almost random order and you wouldn't be far off. One rather poignant scene, almost depressing actually, saw Stephanie spending a (rare) quiet moment thinking (rare!) how useless her life has been -- she realizes she's not good at anything, has no hobbies or interests, and has no idea what to do with her love life or her future. She fantasizes she can play the cello, then actually tells her family she can (despite being unable to even recognize one!), which leads to what little fresh hilarity the book has on display. Maybe Evanovich has just run out of steam with this set. Maybe that explains the attempt to diversify manifested in the largely ho-hum \"Metro Girl\". Maybe the old joke about 1000 monkeys with typewriters could do just as well is right on. Maybe we're just \"Plum\" full of this series. Sorry, but from our reading we just didn't get that much entertainment, let alone go out \"On Top\"! ...more A Stephanie Plum \"Mystery.\" Stephanie quits her job as a bounty hunter, yet, despite this, continues to fail at common sense. Lula gets promoted and somehow proves to be even worse at the job than Stephanie. Morelli is hot and strangely calm. Ranger is hot and doing his best to save Stephanie from herself. Bob eats things he shouldn't, then does a lot of hunching and vomiting and crapping. Look. It's a hundred degrees here. I wanted something mindless, and I knew Evanovich would deliver. I wasn't A Stephanie Plum \"Mystery.\" Stephanie quits her job as a bounty hunter, yet, despite this, continues to fail at common sense. Lula gets promoted and somehow proves to be even worse at the job than Stephanie. Morelli is hot and strangely calm. Ranger is hot and doing his best to save Stephanie from herself. Bob eats things he shouldn't, then does a lot of hunching and vomiting and crapping. Look. It's a hundred degrees here. I wanted something mindless, and I knew Evanovich would deliver. I wasn't even mad when Stephanie intentionally shot a guy in the foot for no reason. I barely cared when Mama Macaroni starting shooting up the dry cleaners with an automatic weapon. I didn't blink when Stephanie's apartment was broken into for the nth time and she kept going back inside. It's just that hot. Two stars. Stephanie blunders around, accidentally solves the crime, is in mortal peril for the last six pages (two of which are the bad guy explaining how he did it, because Stephanie didn't actually figure that part out), is rescued, the end. Until next time. ...more Eleven On Top, 5 easy, no-brainer stars. This is the second Stephanie Plum novel I have read and it is official - I am in love with Stephanie Plum, and I am not even gay! Stephanie is a sassy, kick-ass bounty hunter who wants to put the bad guys behind bars, preferably without the aid of a gun - I get where she is coming from I don't like guns either. In this book she has quit her job because she has had enough of being shot at, kidnapped, stalked, firebombed, spat at, cussed at, run off the road Eleven On Top, 5 easy, no-brainer stars. This is the second Stephanie Plum novel I have read and it is official - I am in love with Stephanie Plum, and I am not even gay! Stephanie is a sassy, kick-ass bounty hunter who wants to put the bad guys behind bars, preferably without the aid of a gun - I get where she is coming from I don't like guns either. In this book she has quit her job because she has had enough of being shot at, kidnapped, stalked, firebombed, spat at, cussed at, run off the road and rolled in garbage. Well you would!Unfortunately for Stephanie, her friends and the manic who is trying to kill her won't let that happen. I love the banter between Stephanie and the two men in her life - Joe Morelli: 'six feet of lean, hard muscle and hot Italian libido' (p8) and Ranger: 'hot and mysterious and oozes testosterone' (p74). Stephanie and Joe Morelli - '''I need happy food.'' ''You should have called,'' he said hooking his finger into the neckline of my white tank, pulling the neck to take a look inside. ''I have just the thing to make you happy.'' I have co-habited with Morelli from time to time and I knew this to be true. ''I have stuff to do this afternoon and doughnuts take less time.'' '' Cupcake, I haven't seen you in weeks. I could set a new land speed record for getting happy.'''(p9) Stephanie and Ranger - 'I crawled under the covers and pulled the quilt over my head. I was almost asleep when the quilt was yanked back. I let out a shriek and stared up at Ranger. ''What the heck are you doing? I yelled at him, grabbing the quilt. ''Visiting, Babe.'' ''Did you ever think about ringing a doorbell?'' Ranger smiled down at me. ''That would take all the fun out of it.'''(p17) It is just as well that Stephanie burns calories with Joe physically, and mentally with Ranger because this girl eats. Personally I love a character that eats. Stephanie seems to know every bakery and fast food outlet in New Jersey. She wolfs down doughnuts - who knew there were so many varieties - cake, takeaways and, of course, her mum's excellent cooking usually with cake for desert. Food leads me to Lula, Stephanie's co-worker/friend - 'a size-sixteen black woman squashed into size-ten leopard-print spandex. And the weird thing is, in her own way, Lula looks pretty good in the animal spandex.' (p3) I love Lula, she is one funny character and I enjoy the way they bounce off each other. I was glad to see that Stephanie's gun-toting Grandma Mazur was still there as, like Lula, she is a big personality - every family should have a Grandma Mazur. This whole book is a laugh from start to finish and I recommend it. ...more Okay, so I promised myself this had to be the last one for a while. And it was a great one to end on. Got to see Plum try to leave the bounty-hunter business behind and, of course, it was just one glorious disaster after another. I still get mad about her, \"He's sexy, oh no he's sexy\" stuff. I realize it's a tension-building love triangle...thing. I guess I just don't get into those when the one stuck in the middle stays (mostly) in a relationship. You're in a relationship, you chose to be in it Okay, so I promised myself this had to be the last one for a while. And it was a great one to end on. Got to see Plum try to leave the bounty-hunter business behind and, of course, it was just one glorious disaster after another. I still get mad about her, \"He's sexy, oh no he's sexy\" stuff. I realize it's a tension-building love triangle...thing. I guess I just don't get into those when the one stuck in the middle stays (mostly) in a relationship. You're in a relationship, you chose to be in it and do seem to enjoy it; so, like, stop letting the other guy kiss you. In spite of that, though, I love everybody in these books. And I love following them around, and this book was, to me, a lot more about following everyone around and 'hanging out with them' than about the mystery plot. Which is cool. And I haven't been mentioning the mystery plot of each one as I've gone along, but they're almost always mapped out well, with some cool red herrings. I've figured some things out, but it doesn't make me hate the plot or anything when I do. I could do without Evanovich's tendency to have the \"bad guy\" sum up all his motives and actions at the end of the book, when Plum's \"getting him to talk,\" though. Yanno? But it hasn't been too particularly irritating, either, probably because I tend to kind of skip over those paragraphs of dialogue. Heh. Anway, definitely there are problems with the books, but they are still hella entertaining. And, as I said, this was a good one to stop on. But here's the deal. There's a preview of the next book at the end, in the form of that book's first chapter. And when I got to the end of that preview, I had to throw the book out in the yard. Somehow, I felt that doing that would keep me from going back no my promise to stop on Eleven on Top, at least for now. Because, dude. DOOOD. (When it started to sprinkly outside, I hurried to rescue the book. It's fine.) ...more :: 5 Gut-Busting Stars :: Oh man do I love reading the Stephanie Plum series. Janet Evanovich consistently writes books that keep readers hanging on the edge of their seats (while laughing out loud). In Eleven on Top, Stephanie Plum finally decides she has had enough of bounty hunting. She is tired of being stalked, abused, and scared of all the crazies she has to get. So, she hops from one job to another- the button factory, cluck-in-a bucket, and more! But, do these jobs actually keep her safe? :: 5 Gut-Busting Stars :: Oh man do I love reading the Stephanie Plum series. Janet Evanovich consistently writes books that keep readers hanging on the edge of their seats (while laughing out loud). In Eleven on Top, Stephanie Plum finally decides she has had enough of bounty hunting. She is tired of being stalked, abused, and scared of all the crazies she has to get. So, she hops from one job to another- the button factory, cluck-in-a bucket, and more! But, do these jobs actually keep her safe? NOPE! Someone is out to get her again. Maybe it\u2019s not the apprehension job that keeps her unsafe after all. With hilarious hijinks, white whales smothering smoochie-umpkins, viewings at Stiva\u2019s, and grandma Mazur\u2019s gossip, Eleven on Top becomes yet another favorite read of mine. I simply cannot get enough of this series. When I need a break from drama filled book I know this is the series that I go to. Therefore, I highly recommend this book AND the entire series. I adore it! ...more Stephanie Plum is thinking her career as fugitive apprehension agent has run its course. She's been shot at, spat at, cussed at, fire-bombed, mooned, and attacked by dogs. Time for a change, Stephanie thinks. Time to find the kind of job her mother can tell her friends about without making the sign of the cross. So Stephanie Plum quits. Resigns. No looking back. No changing her mind. She wants something safe and normal. As it turns out, jobs that are safe and normal for most people aren't necess Stephanie Plum is thinking her career as fugitive apprehension agent has run its course. She's been shot at, spat at, cussed at, fire-bombed, mooned, and attacked by dogs. Time for a change, Stephanie thinks. Time to find the kind of job her mother can tell her friends about without making the sign of the cross. So Stephanie Plum quits. Resigns. No looking back. No changing her mind. She wants something safe and normal. As it turns out, jobs that are safe and normal for most people aren't necessarily safe and normal for Stephanie Plum. Trouble follows her, and the kind of trouble she had at the bail bonds office can't compare to the kind of trouble she finds herself facing now. Her past has come back to haunt her. She's stalked by a maniac returned from the grave for the sole purpose of putting her into a burial plot of her own. He's killed before, and he'll kill again if given the chance. Caught between staying far away from the bounty hunter business and staying alive, Stephanie re-examines her life and the possibility that being a bounty hunter is the solution rather than the problem. After disturbingly brief careers at the button factory, Kan Klean Dry Cleaners, and Cluck-in-a-Bucket, Stephanie takes an office position in security, working for Ranger, the sexiest, baddest, bounty hunter and businessman in two continents. It might not be the job she'll keep for the rest of her life, but for now, it gives her the technical access she needs to find her stalker. Tempers and temperatures rise as competition ratchets up between the two men in her life --her off-again, on-again boyfriend, tough Trenton cop, Joe Morelli, and her bad-ass boss, Ranger. Can Stephanie Plum take the heat? Can you? ...more Number 11 in the Stephanie Plum series proves Janet Evanovich could go on forever. This best-selling author keeps the humor flowing with the wacky situations Stephanie and her cohorts manage to get themselves into. Stephanie is beginning to question where her life is going and makes the drastic decision to quit her job as a bounty hunter. She ends up working in a button factory but gets fired the first day before she even begins work. Her next job at a dry-cleaning establishment ends when the ow Number 11 in the Stephanie Plum series proves Janet Evanovich could go on forever. This best-selling author keeps the humor flowing with the wacky situations Stephanie and her cohorts manage to get themselves into. Stephanie is beginning to question where her life is going and makes the drastic decision to quit her job as a bounty hunter. She ends up working in a button factory but gets fired the first day before she even begins work. Her next job at a dry-cleaning establishment ends when the owner takes a semi-automatic and tries to shoot her, and her try at a fast-food restaurant ends in disaster when she manages to set the place on fire. While all this is going on, Stephanie is receiving threatening notes and being shot at while cars and buildings and people around her are blowing up. Ranger finally steps in and offers Stephanie a job with him, which gives her the chance to try to find out who's after her while under the protection of bad-boy Ranger. Meanwhile, Stephanie has moved in with Joe Morelli, her on-again, off-again boyfriend, to help while he nurses a broken leg, a byproduct of one of Stephanie's fiascoes. What a fun series this is. The triangulated relationship between Stephanie, Ranger and Morelli is teasing and deliciously anticipatory for the reader. The characters are wonderfully portrayed and only get better as the series evolves. Looking for a fun read? This won't disappoint. ...more These really are the perfect books to read while on an airplane. They're sort of like popcorn for the brain... fun, enjoyable and quick. I know some of my friends started to get tired of the series after awhile, but I actually do think the books keep getting better (or maybe it's just that my mindset about them has changed enough that I'm enjoying them more). Oddly, one of the biggest complaints I've heard about the series is how the whole love triangle just drags on and on... but I'm finding I a These really are the perfect books to read while on an airplane. They're sort of like popcorn for the brain... fun, enjoyable and quick. I know some of my friends started to get tired of the series after awhile, but I actually do think the books keep getting better (or maybe it's just that my mindset about them has changed enough that I'm enjoying them more). Oddly, one of the biggest complaints I've heard about the series is how the whole love triangle just drags on and on... but I'm finding I actually rather like the way it's being handled. Sure, I don't find the reactions of some of the characters to be terribly realistic, but for the length of the book, I'm willing to suspend my disbelief (especially for what are, essentially, humor books masquerading as mysteries). Anyway, really enjoyed this one. Got quite a few laughs out of it... sadly, not easy to share with my husband who was wondering what all the chuckling was about, since you really need to understand the characters for it to make sense. Must work on getting him to read the books too! ...more NON HO MAI RISO COSI' TANTO (E IN MODO COSI' SGUAGLIATO) COME IN QUESTO ROMANZO!!! Stephanie al suo top (Il titolo lo prometteva!), Morelli e Ranger pi\u00f9 sexi che mai e cos\u00ec tante situazioni paradossali che ve la farete sotto dalle risate!! Aaaah, \u00e8 bello tornare a casa da te, Janet! Evanovich is back on track with this one. At first it seemed to be just the same ol', same ol' but about a quarter or a third of the way in it changed. Some absolutely hilarious scenes, more than just quips, but entire scenes. Pretty good mystery too. Loved it! Juste la lecture dont j'avais besoin, et accessoirement un tome qui m'a bien fait marr\u00e9 ! Eleven on Top Really ALL of the Stephanie Plum\u2019s I have Read Thus Far Janet Evanovich I have a soft spot in my heart for the Stephanie Plum series by Janet Evanovich. I started this series about 3 years ago. A friend of my mother-in-law raved on and on about them while we were at their pool one day, so I thought I would check them out. I picked up the first one in the series, One for the Money, at my local library. I remember reading it over the course of about 3 days. The book was well written, ha Eleven on Top Really ALL of the Stephanie Plum\u2019s I have Read Thus Far Janet Evanovich I have a soft spot in my heart for the Stephanie Plum series by Janet Evanovich. I started this series about 3 years ago. A friend of my mother-in-law raved on and on about them while we were at their pool one day, so I thought I would check them out. I picked up the first one in the series, One for the Money, at my local library. I remember reading it over the course of about 3 days. The book was well written, had a pretty funny story line, and some twists and turns that made the ending turn out well for me, but honestly, after reading that first one, I just wasn\u2019t feeling like running around and raving about the book like my MIL\u2019s friend. I mentioned this to a co-worker that I knew had read most of the series, and she said she felt the same way about the first book, and encouraged me to give the second one a try. During this time period I was traveling quite a bit for work, and I was spending more time in my car than normal. I picked up the next few books on CD in the series at my local library to pass the long hours on the road. This was when I really fell in love with Stephanie Plum. The narrator brought the characters into a whole new realm for me, and I finally couldn\u2019t get enough of the books. I can\u2019t remember exactly which book in the series I was on, but I was heading out of town again, and wanted to put another one behind me \u2013 I mean, I really needed more hijinks of Lula and Stephanie, not to mention more descriptions of Joe and Ranger! I popped in the CD, headed down the road, and immediately let out a very loud groan. Alone in my car with no one to judge, I spew forth a stream of profanity that would have made even ME blush if I were in a public setting. THE NARRATOR CHANGED! There was no way I would like these books any longer! Nope! Not going to happen! But I was wrong! I still loved the mystery surrounding Stephanie Plum, I still cheered when she and Joe got back at it, but secretly wanted her and Ranger to settle down or at least get jiggy with it. I loved their family, their crazy life, and the fact that every woman in the Trenton area carried a gun \u2013 even the seniors! So, the Stephanie Plum series have been my little secret of reading for the past three years. I don\u2019t talk about them a lot, and it\u2019s not because they aren\u2019t good, but because I fly through them so fast that I am afraid that I can\u2019t give them the true credit for what they are worth to reading, therefore, the reason for this review. Last Saturday I had some downtime during a home improvement project. It was one of those do a small bit of the project, wait for an hour, do another small bit, rinse and repeat. I am struggling with a book club book and didn\u2019t want to deal with that. I wanted something I could rip through and enjoy all at the same time. I picked up Eleven On Top and it was like having lunch with an old friend I hadn\u2019t seen in a long time. I got right back into the groove, the laugh out loud moments, the fun, the twists and turns, Lula\u2019s outfits, Ranger\u2019s rock solid body\u2026 And by 9:00 that night, I had finished the book! A mere total of maybe 4 hours of reading, but an afternoon that made me smile and remember why I fell in love with Stephanie Plum in the first place. Most of Ms. Evanovich\u2019s books are picked up on PaperBack Swap. On occasion I will grab one from the library, but my To-Be-Read pile is stacking up by the second, and I don\u2019t want to put time restraints on myself. These books are great little reads, fun little mysteries, with a sprinkling of good food, bad fashion, big hair, and sex, along with gun toting grannies and a funeral home that\u2019s packed every night of the week. If you need something for Spring Break to pass the time while traveling, ANY of the Stephanie Plum books will fit the description! I do recommend reading them in order \u2013 there is a method to the madness, and the characters do evolve. All of the books are extremely well written and you get to know the characters easily. You have a sense of accomplishment at the end of each book, but you always want more and more!!! I\u2019ve already put Twelve Sharp on my PBS Wish List! ...more I love these books. They seriously make me laugh out loud. And I am always torn between Ranger and Morelli. Yum! This was a very funny Stephanie Plum book. I was laughing out load at several parts. It amazes me that Evanovich never runs out of material for this series. I also loved the interactions with Ranger and Morelli, never a dull moment! And I go to bed at night wondering where my life is heading. - Stephanie Well hell, when you smell that good and look that good who cares about anything else, anyway? - Stephanie I don't have a lot of domestic instincts, but I have a real strong urge to take you home and hose you down. - Ranger I needed happy food. - Stephanie You should have called me, I have just the thing to make you happy. - Morelli And on odd days of the month he woke up wanting to marry me. It turns out I only want to marry him on e And I go to bed at night wondering where my life is heading. - Stephanie Well hell, when you smell that good and look that good who cares about anything else, anyway? - Stephanie I don't have a lot of domestic instincts, but I have a real strong urge to take you home and hose you down. - Ranger I needed happy food. - Stephanie You should have called me, I have just the thing to make you happy. - Morelli And on odd days of the month he woke up wanting to marry me. It turns out I only want to marry him on even days of the month, so to date we've been spared commitment. - Stephanie We don't seem to be all that good at commitment, but I'd be happy to give up a couple closets in exchange for wild gorilla sex at least five days out of seven. - Stephanie Am I good, or what? - Morelli I didn't break your heart. - Stephanie Cupcake, you've been breaking my heart for as long as I've known you. - Morelli I'm the one who misses you. And I miss you bad. - Morelli It must be awful not to know, to have someone you love disappear. Not to know if he was murdered and buried in a shallow grave, or if you drove him away, or if he was sick and couldn't find his way home. It makes my problems seem trivial. - Stephanie And the problems I was thinking about were personal. My life had no clear direction. My goals were small and immediate. Pay the rent. Get a better car. Make a dinner decision. I didn't have a career. I didn't have a husband. I didn't have any special talents. I didn't have a consuming passion. I didn't have a hobby. - Stephanie I can always count on you to brighten my day. - Stephanie One last word of advice. Stay away from the doughnuts. - Ranger I was hoping you'd want to go home with me because I'm smart and sexy and fun. - Morelli That's true, hideously true. - Stephanie I'm not going to cry. - Stephanie Thank God. I hate when you cry. It makes me feel really shitty. - Morelli Barefoot and desperate. Just the way I like you. - Ranger You promised. - Stephanie The promise doesn't count. We were in bed. I would have promised anything. - Morelli If I gave you a pity position it wouldn't be in my office. - Ranger I'm okay now. Am I red and blotchy from crying? - Stephanie Yes, I love you anyway. - Ranger There's all kinds of love. - Stephanie This is the kind that doesn't call for a ring. But a condom might come in handy. - Ranger Here's a basic difference between Morelli and me. My first thought was always of cake. His first thought was always of sex. Don't get me wrong. I like sex . . . a lot. But it's never going to replace cake. - Stephanie ...more OK, my (**%)^$%!! laptop wiped out my review TWOCE before I could finish it, so let's try again. Latest fun Plum novel, narrated by Lorelei King (I like both her and C.J. Critt, both of whom have about perfected their characterizations and pacing, after so many of these works). This one involves Stephanie quitting Vinnie's Bail Bond business from getting just tired of chasing all these losers; however, her subsequent jobs are short lived and disastrous (just think of her jobs as not dissimilar t OK, my (**%)^$%!! laptop wiped out my review TWOCE before I could finish it, so let's try again. Latest fun Plum novel, narrated by Lorelei King (I like both her and C.J. Critt, both of whom have about perfected their characterizations and pacing, after so many of these works). This one involves Stephanie quitting Vinnie's Bail Bond business from getting just tired of chasing all these losers; however, her subsequent jobs are short lived and disastrous (just think of her jobs as not dissimilar to her cars). Well, she ends up working for none other than Ranger, mostly doing computer work, but manages to get pulled into some bounty-hunting scenarios, mostly by Lula, who is now an Official Bounty Hunter, but with more enthusiasm than judgment...And both Ranger and Morelli tear their hair out trying to protect Stephanie from herself, when they aren't comparing swords, if ya know what I mean...The \"mystery\" for this book is a series of threatening notes and near-misses from, well, she surmises it's Stiva the Younger, who had presumably been killed in the funeral-home fire from, I think, book Two, which had been set by Stephanie and Grandma Mazur, so we have some continuity here. The resolution of that mystery was somewhat of a surprise to me, and of course places Stephanie into a good deal of peril, but I won't give it away, too much fun. Not to forget Mom the Neurotic, Valerie the Gonna-Get-Married-to-Kloughn, Grandma Mazur going to wakes, and her friendship with several members of Trenton's Finest (in an interview with Ms. King at the end of the work, Ms. Evanovich says that she had befriended a number of Police Officers in Trenton when she was doing research for the series, and they've remained friends, neat). So, fun time, goes quick as it is somewhat shorter than her previous books. On to \"Twelve Sharp!\" ...more Stephanie has hit hard times. Well, harder times than usual that is. Having reached a breaking point, Stephanie quits her job as a bond enforcement officer and pursues other career options much to her chagrin and my personal amusement. Life seems to b!tch slap Stephanie at every turn, and though it is not entirely realistic, it is no less endearing or humorous. Anyone who has read enough Plum novels to get to \"Eleven On Top\", knows these books are formulamatic. Stephanie blows up a car, or two, Stephanie has hit hard times. Well, harder times than usual that is. Having reached a breaking point, Stephanie quits her job as a bond enforcement officer and pursues other career options much to her chagrin and my personal amusement. Life seems to b!tch slap Stephanie at every turn, and though it is not entirely realistic, it is no less endearing or humorous. Anyone who has read enough Plum novels to get to \"Eleven On Top\", knows these books are formulamatic. Stephanie blows up a car, or two, Stephanie fails to apprehend someone due to blatant stupidity, Grandma Mazur tries to lift a casket, Ranger says \"Babe\", a lot, Lula eats while wearing too tight spandex, so on and so forth. I suppose reading the same tried and true scenarios would become redundant to some, but for me, it's much like slipping on my much worn and oh so loved pjs. They may be tired, but I love them just the way they are. As for the much heated debate, Ranger vs. Morelli, I thank vati that Stephanie hasn't chosen. I love them both. Asking me to choose between Morelli and Ranger is like asking me if I want a cheese burger or Mexican for dinner, java chip frappachino ice cream or chocolate chip cookies for desert, I am simply not equipped to make these sorts of decisions! My eye is twitching just thinking about it... As always, hi-lights include... 1. Stephanie whacks a mole... off Mama Macaroni's face 2. Stephanie clucks in Cluck in a Bucket 3. Grandma Mazur vs. Grandma Bella smackdown, literally 4. Joe gets run over, lol 5. The glories of going commando 6. Enticements of the one eyed snake, what leg-hole will it come out next? 7. Lula gets handcuffed, naked, while making an apprehension, go figure 8. Stephanie gives up sugar, oh the horror! ...more Eleven on Top is the eleventh novel in the Stephanie Plum series by Janet Evanovich. In this novel Stephanie quits her job as a bounty hunter after another one of cars gets blown up again. She wants a safer job where she won't get shot at or have her apartment broken into again or her cars blowing up. This leads to her to working at the button factory (where she gets fired for being 3 hours late for work on her first day), to a dry cleaners (this one lasts until the second day when she gets shot Eleven on Top is the eleventh novel in the Stephanie Plum series by Janet Evanovich. In this novel Stephanie quits her job as a bounty hunter after another one of cars gets blown up again. She wants a safer job where she won't get shot at or have her apartment broken into again or her cars blowing up. This leads to her to working at the button factory (where she gets fired for being 3 hours late for work on her first day), to a dry cleaners (this one lasts until the second day when she gets shot at by a psychotic old lady and is fired), a fast food restaurant (which she manages to burn to the ground on her first night working there) to finally ends up working as an office administrator for Ranger's security company. The trouble is, quitting as a bounty hunter doesn't seem to have worked because someone has a grudge against Stephanie and wants her dead. Stephanie's adventures still make me laugh after 11 novels. There are so many hilarious and witty scenes in this book. But I have to admit I was a bit annoyed by Stephanie in this book. I just wish she'd finally choose between Joe Morelli and Ranger. She actually cheats on Joe in this book which I thought was a bit out of character for her since Stephanie had a thing against cheaters in her earlier novels (Stephanie's ex-husband cheated on her with one of her best friends) and now she's cheating herself? 2.5 Stars! ...more 2.5 stars. This was...fine? I guess?? It's pretty damned predictable, and frankly more than a little repetitive. I mean, Steph decides that she's sick of being a bounty hunter and quits in favour of a string of ultimately unsuccessful jobs. Things catch on fire. Cars blow up. Grandma Mazur tries to break into coffins. Steph's mother downs a few shots of whisky to deal with her daughter's life. Steph ends up covered in garbage. Morelli sighs a lot over Steph's life choices while calling her Cupca 2.5 stars. This was...fine? I guess?? It's pretty damned predictable, and frankly more than a little repetitive. I mean, Steph decides that she's sick of being a bounty hunter and quits in favour of a string of ultimately unsuccessful jobs. Things catch on fire. Cars blow up. Grandma Mazur tries to break into coffins. Steph's mother downs a few shots of whisky to deal with her daughter's life. Steph ends up covered in garbage. Morelli sighs a lot over Steph's life choices while calling her Cupcake. Ranger smirks a lot while saying \"Babe\" in a variety of tones. So you basically know what to expect from the get go, and despite some chuckle-worthy moments, it get mooooooore than a little rinse-and-repeat-y. Frankly, the overarching plot dragged, and then was suuuuuuper action packed for the last, say, 15 pages. Which was less than ideal. So it could have been worse. But it was also totally forgettable. ...more These are just so fun to read. No one has a life even vaguely resembling Stephanie's, but we all want one. She's fun, interesting, feisty, attractive, fumbles her way to the solution to all her problems, albeit by a circular route, but she gets places! The dichotomy of the Stephanie/Morelli/Ranger triangle never grows boring. It's made more interesting by the men's willingness to put aside their differences for Stephanie's own good. I want a couple of watchdogs like hers. This installment runs a l These are just so fun to read. No one has a life even vaguely resembling Stephanie's, but we all want one. She's fun, interesting, feisty, attractive, fumbles her way to the solution to all her problems, albeit by a circular route, but she gets places! The dichotomy of the Stephanie/Morelli/Ranger triangle never grows boring. It's made more interesting by the men's willingness to put aside their differences for Stephanie's own good. I want a couple of watchdogs like hers. This installment runs a little deeper than the usual Plum waters. Stephanie questions her life and goes about changing it. What follows is a series of dramatically botched jobs that end in her employment by Ranger. Along the road she has quite a few bumps and starts and an explosion or two, but in the end she gets her own, just as we have come to expect. ...more As I've said before, I don't mind if these books become repetitive because even when they are in a series, they still work as standalone. So their repetitiveness is forgiven but not at the price of their humor. From 9th book this series started going downhill in both, humor and mystery departments. But Eleven on Top was definitely better than previous two books but still not good enough. I'll read the next book to find out if it gets better or else I'm calling it quits - at least for now. **Short Review** This is by far my FAVORITE Stephanie Plum for sure!!! I was laughing through most of it and i just loved every bit of it. Plum has decided to quite Bounty Hunting and has to try other jobs, and of course it all goes wrong, which is the Plum way. The whole mole thing was genius thou, especially when she gets it as a present from her \"stalker\". I am slowly starting to consider this in my top 10 series :D This was so cute. It was so nice to see Stephanie not being a bounty hunter, but it was also BIZARRE. Also: Can we talk about the endings to these books? THEY ARE SO ABRUPT. Or is it just me? I really enjoyed this one, although the culprit was sooooo surprising. I can't wait for number 12, but am I the only one who's ready for Stephanie to settle down with Morelli? OR RANGER. JUST PICK ONE.", "Title": "Eleven on Top"},
