{"Comments": "I love the idea of a throwback, an author who takes cues from classics and puts a new spin on them. Mieville took rollicking pulp and updated it , Susanna Clarke made fairy tales and the Gothic novel sing for a modern audience--but if you're going to adopt a bygone style,<---M> take only the best</---M>, and leave the dross. By all means, copy Howard's verve and brooding , but skip the sexist titillation . Copy Lovecraft's cosmic horror, but skip the racist epithets . Dan Simmon's <+++>Ilium</+++> feels like 50's sci fi fo I love the idea of a throwback, an author who takes cues from classics and puts a new spin on them. Mieville took rollicking pulp and updated it , Susanna Clarke made fairy tales and the Gothic novel sing for a modern audience--but if you're going to adopt a bygone style, take only the best, and leave the dross. By all means, copy Howard's verve and brooding , but skip the sexist titillation . Copy Lovecraft's cosmic horror, but skip the racist epithets . Dan Simmon's <+++>Ilium</+++> feels like 50's sci fi for all the wrong reasons--less a throwback than a relic. Each of his intertwining stories features a slight variation on the standard science hero, that idealization of the author that we all roll our eyes at: the adventurer who is a bit dorky, out of place, more at home in the safety of a library, but who is now stuck on Mars, or floating in space, or trapped in a dystopian conspiracy (respectively), and must get by with only his smarts and good character. Like most such stories, the plotting is convenient--instead of being motivated by their own desires, the story is imposed upon the characters. They are vessels for the reader to inhabit instead of thinking, feeling beings. The main plots roughly parallel classic sci fi texts: like Riverworld , we have powerful, advanced beings recreating humans to toy with them, taking on the role of the gods. The next combines elements of Brave New World , and Dancers at the End of Time : we follow a man on a dying Earth as he tries to uncover who's really behind it all. This latter story also has a more interesting antecedent in Nabokov's Ada --as several characters, images, and relationships are drawn from that work, yet it is not an expansion upon Nabokov's sci fi foray, but a regression of his themes back into titillating pulp. The main character goes on and on about how hot his cousin is, and how he wants to sleep with her--however, since he is rebuffed and mocked at every turn, we have to assume that this is meant to be a satire. Yet, we\u2019re still getting those descriptions, that same primary point of view, so I\u2019m not sure Simmons is doing quite enough to differentiate the satire from the object of ridicule. Likewise, it\u2019s so overstated and repetitious that it becomes tiring. The literary turn is curious, seeming to promise that more thought has gone into this work than the average genre adventure. One character lives in a Nabokov story, the next has constant discourses on the meaning of Shakespeare's Sonnets and the philosophy of Proust, and the last is full of literary interpretations of Homer. Simmons is aiming high, deliberately drawing comparison with the literary greats, trying to borrow depth from them--but it's not enough to simply invoke the names, to place their thoughts into the mouths of this or that character, if he fails to integrate these ideas fully into the structure and prose. Simmons' languages is disappointing--overly explanatory, nitpicking in that familiar sci fi way, where everything is reductive. The inner lives of the characters, their motivations, the finer points of the plot, all are stated outright, then rehashed and restated. The reader is told what to think, how to react, and what it all means--it all becomes rather overbearing. Much of the bulk of it (and it is bulky) comes from the fact that the author is never willing to leave well enough alone. At one point he mentions Hector\u2019s son\u2019s nickname and what it means twice in as many pages--at which point I wondered if anyone had actually bothered to edit this thing in the first place. A grand and strange idea needs grand and strange prose to propel it. Narrowing down and simplifying it for the crowd just isn't going to do it justice. If you\u2019ve decided to write a complex book, with various story threads drawing on both classic sci fi and great literature, at a certain point you need to have faith that it will come together, in the end. Otherwise, the anxious urge to control every aspect and get it just right is going to strangle the life out of it, until there is no room left for mystery or strangeness. In bad fantasy, it often feels like the author has set themselves the masochistic limitation of constructing a book solely using words and phrases cut from an antiques catalogue--which would explain why, by the end, the swords, thrones, and banners have more developed personalities than the romantic leads. Likewise, in bad sci fi, it feels like authors are forced to do the same thing with an issue of Popular Mechanics --filling out the text with little gadgets and a blurb on the latest half-baked FTL propulsion theory. We can go back as far as Wells and Verne and see the split between social sci fi and gadget sci fi: Wells realized that it was enough to simply have the time machine or airplane as story devices, things that might change society. He did go on his preachy tangents, but they were always about the effects of technology, not particulars dredged from an engine repair manual. Verne, on the other hand, liked to put in the numbers, to speculate and theorize about the particulars--yet here we are, still waiting on the kind of battery banks he describes as powering the Nautilus . Going into intense detail simply isn't useful in a work of fiction. A communicator or phaser or transporter is just as inspiring and fascinating on Star Trek without bothering with vague pseudoscience for how the thing is supposed to work. In the end, focus on the story itself, on the characters and the world, and leave out the chaff. The Nautilus is no more (or less!) interesting for a few paragraphs about its engine room, so as in all editing, if nothing would be lost by the omission, best to cut it. It\u2019s odd to still be getting this in the post-speculative age--Dick, Ellison, and Gibson have already paved the way for the odd, literary, genre story--and their works ended up being far more predictive of the future than any collection of gadget-loving writers. Gibson didn\u2019t even own a computer at the time he wrote Neuromancer , and certainly didn\u2019t go into great detail about the technical aspect of \u2018decks\u2019 or \u2018cyberspace\u2019, but that didn\u2019t prevent him from being remarkably prescient about how those technologies would change our world. So why, thirty and forty years after the Speculative Fiction revolution, should we end up praising a regression like this? It's bizarre how much a modern sci fi novel can end up feeling like Tom Swift, with the character constantly mentioning his \u2018shotgun-microphone baton\u2019, \u2018levitation harness\u2019, and \u2018QT medallion\u2019--going into long theoretical digressions about how precisely his \u2018morphing bracelet\u2019 might work, on the quantum level--as if it makes any difference. And then, of course, he just gives up and says he doesn't really know--so then, what was the point of the digression? You know you\u2019re reading bad sci fi when the author takes a basic concept that we already understand and have a term for--like teleportation--and then invents his own, new term for it--or better yet, a whole phrase. Sci fi authors can\u2019t seem to get enough of pointless convolution, that extra layer of complexity that doesn\u2019t actually add anything to the story. Or they\u2019ll have some gadget, and every time a character uses it, they explain it all over again. Sci fi is about tech, so of course you want the bits and bobs in there, but once a piece of technology has been established, you don\u2019t need to reintroduce it every time--we\u2019ll take for granted that the dude still has it and that it works in the same way. If you want to write a book about robots reading Proust, that\u2019s admirable--but don\u2019t then turn around and treat the audience like a bunch of mouth breathing idiots who need to be reminded what the servo wand does even though it\u2019s the fifth time we\u2019ve seen it. Beyond that, the technology in the world makes no sense--they have advanced in huge steps in things like teleportation and energy conversion, and seem to be able to create whole new people and races from thin air, and yet their ability to heal injuries is extremely limited, slow, and cumbrous. It makes it difficult to believe that this book was published as recently as 2003. Then came that fateful phrase upon which so many a sci fi and fantasy review has turned: And then there's the depiction of sexuality. It feels quite adolescent--physical instead of emotional, women described at length and men not at all--and not just in the Ada section, where it makes a certain sense as an homage, but throughout the book. Strip it down to the bare facts of the description, and it becomes the sort of erotica Beavis and Butthead would come up with: Beavis: So this chick is like, in the bath, and she\u2019s totally of touching her boobs.<---F> Butthead: Yeah, and she\u2019s super hot</---F>. And then she stands up, and she\u2019s naked. Beavis: Whoa, that\u2019s cool! Butthead: And then she puts on a robe, but you can totally see through it. Beavis: Heh heh, that\u2019s good, Butthead. And then, she like, rubs her boobs on a pole. Butthead: Huhuhuh, and then she rubs her thigh on the pole. Beavis: Like, her inner thigh \u2026 Butthead: Yeah. And then she goes over to this dude, and she takes off the robe, and she\u2019s, like, totally naked! Is this list of body parts supposed to be arousing? If you were an alien learning the ways of human culture through sci fi novels--firstly, I\u2019m sorry--and secondly, you could be forgiven for assuming that a 'woman' was like any other human being, except that all her limbs had been replaced by breasts, and all her locomotion was achieved by squishing them together and pressing them against things. Is this what passes for seduction? Just 'here\u2019s my naked body, have a go' ? A few chapters later, the same characters are forced to undress together (because 'reasons'), and so we get this long, loving description of what the ladies look like, what the young man is thinking while looking at them, how naughty and exciting it is--and yet, no description of the men undressing, nothing about what the women might be thinking, what their point of view might be. In the original Ada, Nabokov uses first-person perspective, so the gaze makes more sense, but Ilium is third-person omniscient, so instead of the character's bias, we're just getting the author's. One of these women is probably the closest we have in this book to a strong female character, and yet we only experience her through the eyes of the chubby, naive dude who keeps trying to sleep with her. Later on, we get a scene that is ostensibly about her desire, about someone she wants to sleep with--and yet, once again, the whole thing is painted in terms of what she looks like, of her body, of how a desirous man might see her--even though this doesn't seem to be coming from the man's POV. It\u2019s such a blatant contradiction: the focus on female physical attractiveness is so pervasive that the women's sexual thoughts are presented in terms of what their own physical bodies look like. We get an insight into his desires, which might actually have contributed something to his character, and neither are we allowed to understand what draws her to him--the description keeps turning back to her breasts and skin and hair, so that the consummation ends up feeling less like personal, carnal fulfillment and more like smacking two dolls together--except the child has only bothered to undress Barbie. Then we get to the scene that convinced me to give up on this book entirely: Our mooky, bookish hero has been led around by the nose for a few hundred pages, thrown into the plot without any choice in the matter and maneuvered from one scene to the next by forces beyond his comprehension--until finally, he starts to see that unless he changes his current course, it\u2019s not going to end well for him. At last, he begins to exercise some free will, to play the role of active agent in this book instead of just a passive observer. So, what\u2019s the first thing he decides to do? That\u2019s right, rape a woman. That\u2019s the first decision he makes , the first thing he does that he wasn\u2019t directly made to do by some greater power. But hey, at least it\u2019s not a violent rape--no, he\u2019s too mild-mannered for that. Instead, he just uses his super science gizmo to make himself look like her husband and then orders her into bed--though he\u2019s so nervous he can barely get the words out, because he\u2019s one of those shy, bashful rapists--you know the type. He also talks about how many times over the years he hung out in disguise outside her window, just watching her and thinking about her--and then makes a joke about \u2018the boobs that launched a thousand ships\u2019 , because there\u2019s no better time for humor than when you\u2019re about to sexually violate a stranger. Of course, he remonstrates himself for being a \u2018jerk\u2019 for thinking something so inappropriate and crass, because he\u2019s so mild-mannered and sweet--though this momentary self-awareness in no way slows down his rape plans. And it\u2019s not like up to this point, he\u2019s been some intriguing, fraught, conflicted character who the author built up to be morally questionable, someone whose actions we must come to terms with. No, so far he has been a generic reader stand-in, a pure observer of the action (that\u2019s literally the character\u2019s job), just a standard nerdy sci fi protagonist who barely has a personality. To switch immediately from such a flat character to such a fraught moral situation just doesn\u2019t work. I\u2019m not saying authors shouldn\u2019t explore sexual assault, or the type of person who commits it, but in order to actually deal with that idea, you have to first build up the characters to the point where they have sufficient depth to actually delve into it in a meaningful way. Otherwise, why include it at all? There\u2019s no reason I can see that this scene couldn\u2019t have just been a normal sexual encounter. The assault doesn\u2019t add anything to the book, and as soon as it\u2019s over, the author seems happy to whitewash and ignore it. I read a bit beyond this scene just to see if the author was going to try to deal with it, but instead the victim realizes what\u2019s happening and doesn\u2019t care in the least, then immediately starts questioning her rapist about other things--and after that, happily has sex with him a couple more times. Is this supposed to excuse it, somehow? Like, if a guy fires off a gun into a house that he suspects is full of children, and then we later find out that it was empty, is that supposed to make him somehow less reprehensible? 'Oh, no one got hurt, so everything's okay--move along.' If it doesn\u2019t provide new understanding of the main character (or of the victim), and the author is happy to ignore the fact that it happened at all, and just move on with the plot, then what was the point? Why include it at all? Of course, in a book about false Greek gods, we can't forget how often Zeus himself liked to pull this trick--a story about a man who gets godlike powers and starts treating his fellow humans like toys would have been interesting--but we're not getting the psychological buildup to support that story. Likewise, the idea that he had been forced into it could work, that he is nothing more than a pawn of the gods (which is altogether likely), but that also requires the proper setup: bits of foreshadowing and signs of internal conflict--all the details that would make such a plot turn interesting instead of merely convenient. Then again, perhaps it\u2019s just exploitation, pure titillation--a hallmark of cheap, thoughtless sci fi everywhere. And yet, here\u2019s an author who spends large sections of chapters having characters discuss Shakespeare\u2019s concept of love, or Proust\u2019s. Clearly, Simmons is attempting to present himself as thoughtful and deliberate. The problem is, if you don\u2019t actually bother to explore those themes through your characters, their personalities and actions, then it simply doesn\u2019t matter how often you have them lecture the reader on the subject--because all you\u2019ve managed to do is write a book that tells us one thing, but where the action contradicts what we\u2019ve been told. It\u2019s like having a protagonist who the supporting cast constantly praises for being smart and clever, but then every decision he makes ends up being short-sighted and thoughtless. Maybe it\u2019s supposed to be some kind of cosmic frat bro slut-shaming. In the preceding scene, the victim gives this whole long speech about what a whore she is, how the current conflict is all her fault, and how she\u2019s been sleeping with these different dudes because she just can\u2019t help herself, and then she seems to be trying to seduce her husband's brother. So perhaps we\u2019re supposed to sit here and think \u2018well, this is all her fault, and she\u2019s just been whoring around for years, causing all this trouble, so really she\u2019s asking for it\u2019 And yet, as any genre fan knows, that's clearly not the worst you can expect--indeed, while Simmons' portrayal of sexuality is one-sided, it's not deliberately so, like so many writers--he's not lecturing us on the inferiority of women--it's just blandly and thoughtlessly sexist. Beyond that, the reader can see that Simmons is trying very hard to do something here, and between that and the passably interesting turns of the plot, it was almost enough to keep me reading. The concept itself should make a fascinating book--this hyper-tech recreation of the Trojan War on Mars, interconnected with Nabokov's 'Antiterra'. All Simmons' overt connections with literature are meant to establish a place in the canon (as his genre has been trying to do for a century) perhaps that's why this book was shortlisted for awards, and has been widely praised, because of its obvious attempt to connect to Great Works. And yet, it makes the same mistake as any bad writing: trying to force through repetition and overstatement instead of doing all the difficult work of integrating those ideas into the book. Simmons just isn't doing enough, it's lip service, and the approach is just too rudimentary, flawed, and old-fashioned. This isn't a forward-looking book, as sci fi should be, its a weirdly nostalgic attempt to redeem the past of sci fi--despite how goofy, exclusionary, and horribly Gernsbackian it all was. Certainly, we should take lessons from the past, but good sci fi is always searching out the new thought or experience, exploring what it is to be human, and what it might be like in the future--the scree of gadgets is just a distraction, the same urge some shallow folk have to get the newest iphone. That isn't a mind seeking the future, it's one trapped in the ever-consumptive obsession of the present, the self, the now. And I get it, because running on that treadmill feels like moving (especially when you buy a new, cooler treadmill every year) but all that lurching and twitching and shivering is nothing but an ague, and it'll drain you in the end. ...more Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done. On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That\u2019s 35 books, 6 of which I\u2019d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me. While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done. On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That\u2019s 35 books, 6 of which I\u2019d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me. While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became a father. As such these stories became imprinted on my memory as the soundtrack to the happiest period in my life (so far). In 2004, Ilium won the Locus Sci-Fi award. In my opinion, if the award had been a motor race, the other contenders would have got their asses lapped. That\u2019s not to say there weren\u2019t some good books in the running that year, Quicksilver is epic and I\u2019ve heard good things about Pattern Recognition , The Speed of Dark and Singularity Sky \u2013 but Ilium is so far up my alley that it\u2019s sitting on my lap and fiercely tonguing my tonsils. When I embarked upon my Locus Quest, I picked the Locus Sci-Fi Award over other more highly regarded genre awards (Hugo, Nebula, BSFA, Arthur C. Clarke) for one simple reason: Ilium . I looked at my bookcase, saw this book and thought \u201cI want to read more books like that\u201d. Glittering on the cover was a little silver sticker \u2018Winner of the Locus Award for best Sci-Fi novel\u2019. I looked online and discovered that none of the more prestigious awards had recognised and rewarded Mr Simmons ' mind-blowing madcap genius. \u201cIf the good people at Locus share my sensibilities regarding Se\u00f1or Simmons ,\u201d I thought to myself, \u201cthen perhaps I\u2019ll share theirs regarding other books.\u201d Just like that, the decision was made and I committed myself to reading every winner of the Locus Sci-Fi award \u2013 a reading list that has taken me best part of two years to complete. My introduction to Ilium set my spider-sense a-tingling. My Mum popped her head round the door and said \u2018I\u2019ve got one for you, I couldn\u2019t get into it \u2013 it was all a bit much \u2019. Now, that may not sound like an encouraging description, but where my Mum\u2019s tolerance for high-concept sci-fi drops off a cliff my personal sweet-spot begins. Previous authors to elicit this response that it was \u2018all a bit much\u2019 included Stephen Baxter , Greg Egan , and Alistair Reynolds \u2013 a warm welcome to the new chairman of the 'bit much' club, <---A>Dan Simmons</---A> ! Jayaprakash Satyamurthy has already done a superb job of summarising the story-strands so I advise you to pop over to his review to wrap your head around them. This mash-up of classic literature with razor sharp sci-fi is audacious and inspirational. It\u2019s the kind of book that I wish I could write. It\u2019s the kind of book I wish I could trace back to the creative spark that initiated it to try and spin in a new direction. I read the book with a delighted grin stretching my cheeks throughout. The kind of book I\u2019d risk walking into lampposts for because I simply could not tear it away from my face. I\u2019ve read it multiple times and it never fails to delight me. I suppose you could call me a fan? Off the back of Ilium I read its sequel Olympus (obviously) and then ventured further into Simmons \u2019 work \u2013 The Hyperion Cantos , Song of Kali , the Joe Kurtz Trilogy , The Terror and The Hollow Man were all good reads and I\u2019ve got Drood on my shortlist and Carrion Comfort and Summer of Night on my longlist to read as soon as the chance arises. It\u2019s fair to say I\u2019ve become a big fan of his work \u2013 he consistently pushes my buttons. I am happy to acknowledge that Ilium wont be for everyone (like my Mum) but whenever anyone asks me if it\u2019s worth a read I can\u2019t help but gush. If you have even a passing interest in sparkling, original, intelligent, playful sci-fi \u2013 give it a try! After this I read: Hyperion ...more If someone were to describe this book to me (if they even could), I don't know if I would believe how much I absolutely enjoyed it. Dan Simmons is a mad genius. Shakespeare-quoting humanoid robots, Greek Gods, post-humans, and old-style humans somehow make the craziest awesome story imaginable. Ilium is a story told through essentially three unrelated viewpoints. First, there's Hockenberry. This is told in first person. Hockenberry is called a \"Scholic,\" a human from our the 20th century (our time If someone were to describe this book to me (if they even could), I don't know if I would believe how much I absolutely enjoyed it. Dan Simmons is a mad genius. Shakespeare-quoting humanoid robots, Greek Gods, post-humans, and old-style humans somehow make the craziest awesome story imaginable. Ilium is a story told through essentially three unrelated viewpoints. First, there's Hockenberry. This is told in first person. Hockenberry is called a \"Scholic,\" a human from our the 20th century (our time) who was rebirthed in a future where Homer's Trojan War is being fought. His job is to report on the war ... to the Greek Gods. At first, this is completely confusing. Why? is a question I asked myself over and over, but it begins to make sense with time. Plus, it's hard not to be fascinated with the events of the Iliad. It's also impressive how much research went into it, though that's only an assumption since my knowledge of the Trojan War is essentially from the movie, Troy (but I have read the Odyssey!). The second viewpoint is the humans, mainly Daemon. Daemon is a self-involved fool who is unlikeable to say the least. But who wouldn't be when you have everything handed to you on a silver platter by robots called servitors (sp - I did listen to the audio so forgive me), like all humans everywhere. Pleasure is their life, knowledge ... is lacking. The third viewpoint is that of a sonnet-loving humanoid robot called a \"moravec\" and named Mahnmut. Specifically, and only, Shakespeare's sonnets. It's work consists of exploring the moon of Jupiter called Europa. Mahnmut is called in on a mission with a group of moravecs to explore some occurrences on the planet mars. At first, I was highly entertained, though confused, with the events of the Trojan war and the other parts were just above boring. Slowly, the story takes hold and it had me hook, line, and sinker. Listening to the audiobook, I was looking forward to my morning and evening drives and not too sad to do errands on my lunch hour either. Somehow, it ALL makes sense even though it sounds like the oddest collection of classics to make up a cohesive story all its own. What does Shakespeare have to do with the Iliad or Proust (his work makes appearances too) for that matter, all set in the future with technology that gives humans everything they ever want or need? It's crazy I tell ya. Crazy! How did I like this book this much? I'm telling you, Simmons is a mad genius. I will just sit back and let him take me on his journey. It's amazing. I question not. Kevin Pariseau is the narrator of this audiobook and while at first I thought he over-acted the part of Hockenberry, though somehow not the other parts, I really grew to like him and found out that it was literally just the character of Hockenberry that he was playing. And it's impressive given how many Greek words and names he's got to ...erm... name. The only problem is that Ilium is only half the story. It stops at a huge cliffhanger and I'm already heading to Olympos to see how this ends. 5 out of 5 Stars (Mind ... blown) ...more \"Literary science fiction\". One of the words in this phrase struggles and strains against the other two like an 18-month old who doesn't want to be picked up. It doesn't want to be associated with a genre that often is long on ideas and short on quality prose and sharp and distinct style. It often succeeds in escaping the pull of science fiction's weak gravity. Occassionaly, an author creates a story that is so dense that the word is held in place in an unstable orbit. Ultimately many of those f \"Literary science fiction\". One of the words in this phrase struggles and strains against the other two like an 18-month old who doesn't want to be picked up. It doesn't want to be associated with a genre that often is long on ideas and short on quality prose and sharp and distinct style. It often succeeds in escaping the pull of science fiction's weak gravity. Occassionaly, an author creates a story that is so dense that the word is held in place in an unstable orbit. Ultimately many of those fail under their own weight and implode into the speculative fiction black hole. Rarely, very rarely, O Muse, an author has the incredible imagination, literary style and guts to weave together a story with just the right mix of literary competence, adventure, science and kickassedness to balance needed to sustain the phrase. Dan Simmons did it with Hyperion with inhuman aplomb. And yes, he does it again with Ilium. It's freaking awesome. While Hyperion gave us a structure loosely based on the classic Chauceresque frame story, Ilium is straight up Homeric Trojan War. On Mars. With robots from Jupiter obsessed with Shakespeare and Proust. With the Greek gods and quantum teleportation. On Mars. Oh and dinosaurs. We take in a lot of the action from the point of view of a formelly dead scholar. Oh yes, Simmons has taken his favourite weapon of intertextuality and speared himself doosy. I have yet to read how Sai Simmons came up with this idea but I would not be shocked if it involved a bet and a half-empty bottle of whiskey. I can just imagine him waking up on the bathroom floor in the morning with some indecpherable napkin notes ending with the phrase \"good luck with that\". Stack on top of this Achillian challenge three seemingly unrelated plot lines that span the solar system and you have what I like to call, the unpossible. But that's what makes this book so good. Simmons takes the unpossible and shapes it with Zeus like vision into something that I read in a little over a week, smiling the entire time. The pace will have you gasping in the thin air of Olympus Mons. There is absolutely no way I can give this less than 5 stars considering the pure effort it must have required to conjure up this opus and for the resulting amusement park for your brain. However, if I had any critique, it might be the same as I had for the Fall of Hyperion and it's only in (an unfair) comparison to their predecessor: many characters in Hyperion are so unique and familiar that it's difficult if not impossible to reproduce that feeling in subsequent works. I did identify with Hockenberry fairly well though and even with the damn robots. To continue my theme from my review of Carrion Comfort, five Dan Simmons books into it and I can say he remains at the top of my list. ...more Most excellent. I like SF, and I like much of what gets lumped under the rather stuffy title 'classic literature'. Clearly, so does Dan Simmons. Set in a very distant future, long after both AI and posthumans have merged, this novel contains three main storylines, all of which ventually intersect. First, there's a group of languid, pleasure-seeking old-style humans living on old earth, all their needs taken care of by mechanical servitors left for them, presumably, by the posthumans. Upon comple Most excellent. I like SF, and I like much of what gets lumped under the rather stuffy title 'classic literature'. Clearly, so does Dan Simmons. Set in a very distant future, long after both AI and posthumans have merged, this novel contains three main storylines, all of which ventually intersect. First, there's a group of languid, pleasure-seeking old-style humans living on old earth, all their needs taken care of by mechanical servitors left for them, presumably, by the posthumans. Upon completing a century of life, they are supposed to ascend to the orbital rings where the posthumans reside, and join them. A small group of old-style humans decides to find out what's really going on in those orbital rings. Which, as it turns out, involves Prospero and Caliban from Shakespeare's 'Tempest'. Simultaneously, a group of AI robots left to pursue their own ends in the Jupiter moon system note anomalous amounts of quantum acitivity on Mars, and launch a mission to find out what is going on. Among them are Mahnmut, who is obsessed with Shakespeare's sonnets, and his friend Orphu, who prefers Proust. Oh, and there's the Olympian gods too, who have all the powers ascribed to them in Greek myth. Only, it seems they can't see the future, so they've brough back a bunch of scholars from the future to confirm if the events taking place as they observe and interfere in the Trojan war correspond with Homer's account. Simmons has pulled off quite a coup here. His novel bristles with the up-to-the-minute hard sf concerns about posthumanism, quantum science, AI and so on. At the same time, he's found a way to bring in heroes from antiquity and great works of literature from our past and use them illuminate what our future might be like. ILIUM is the first part of a duology. The second is OLYMPOS, which I'm currently reading. There is so much left over to be tied up in the first book that I think the two would best be considered as one long story split into two books. ...more My review of Ilium in a nutshell: \u201cI liked it?\u201d AMBISHUN: DAN SIMMONS HAZ IT. I\u2019m not sure if it is possible to be too ambitious when creating a plot for a novel, but Dan Simmons seems to be on a mission to find out. There are concepts, there are high concepts, and there are Dan Simmons concepts. When it\u2019s time for Simmons to begin a new novel, I picture something like this: Dan Simmons is smoking a pipe (made from the bones of an aurochs), deep in the bowels of Stately Simmons Manor. Inspiration My review of Ilium in a nutshell: \u201cI liked it?\u201d AMBISHUN: DAN SIMMONS HAZ IT. I\u2019m not sure if it is possible to be too ambitious when creating a plot for a novel, but Dan Simmons seems to be on a mission to find out. There are concepts, there are high concepts, and there are Dan Simmons concepts. When it\u2019s time for Simmons to begin a new novel, I picture something like this: Dan Simmons is smoking a pipe (made from the bones of an aurochs), deep in the bowels of Stately Simmons Manor. Inspiration hits. He must write a novel about the Trojan war! But ANYONE could do that. How does Dan Simmons make his version stand out? TO THE TOPICS BARREL! He dramatically opens the oversized mahogany double-doors to his study and PickWick, the Simmons family butler, is already cranking one of those super-sized bingo barrels. Thousands of ping pong balls \u2013nay, sliced baby eyelids, each bearing a single topic tattoo- are skittering about. When the barrel stops barreling, out slide three moist subjects. Robots. Mars. Shakespeare. Dan Simmons downs the last of his chilled cognac, freshly squeezed from the teats of a three-breasted whore. He twirls an imaginary mustache. \u201cYes,\u201d he mutters. \u201cOnly Simmons could set the Trojan War on past and future Mars and tell it from the perspective of two cyborgs (one who will be shaped like\u2026a CRAB!!!!) who constantly bicker about Proust! ONLY SIMMONS!\u201d He jauntily skips across campus to his vintage moveable-type machine (the ink contains the semen of Ben Franklin!) and writes 1,200 words in 4 days. -END SCENE- Seriously. Does he do this with every novel? Just off the top of my head: Arctic Exploration + Yeti = The Terror. Charles Dickens + Serial Killer = Drood. Vampires + A Dangerous Game. Nazis = Carrion Comfort. I really liked Ilium, even if I have no idea how the concurrent randomness actually ties together. I know there\u2019s a sequel that should explain everything, but man, my brain is far too tired to risk another multi-pronged mind-asplode scenario. For a while, anyway. ...more Masterly far-future sci-fi epicness from Dan Simmons. Thousands of years into Earth's future the human population has stagnated into a contented form of indulgent immortality; no-one dies and no-one goes hungry, but also no-one really does anything more interesting than take part in the occasional sex party or get eaten by a cloned Allosaur. Meanwhile a present-day historian has been resurrected on Mars, apparently at the whim of the ancient Greek gods in order to act as observer to the siege of Masterly far-future sci-fi epicness from Dan Simmons. Thousands of years into Earth's future the human population has stagnated into a contented form of indulgent immortality; no-one dies and no-one goes hungry, but also no-one really does anything more interesting than take part in the occasional sex party or get eaten by a cloned Allosaur. Meanwhile a present-day historian has been resurrected on Mars, apparently at the whim of the ancient Greek gods in order to act as observer to the siege of Troy, a legendary event that has somehow been transformed into gruesome historical reality. Into this heady mix come two highly evolved 'Morivek', sentient descendants of robotic probes to the outer planets of the solar system grown curious about the fate of their human progenitors. Simmons mixes Greek myth and Shakespeare into a complex and often demanding story that nevertheless rewards the reader's commitment. You may need to read it twice though. ...more A fantastic sci-fi epic in the tradition of Simmons's Hyperion Cantos . In Ilium , as in the Hyperion books, Simmons really shows off his knowledge of classical literature. He obviously knows the Iliad and the Odyssey inside and out, but the author (through his characters) also fills this book with literary and historical references to Shakespeare, Proust, and a dozen other sources. It's ingenious and it made me to resolve to finally get around to reading the Iliad myself once I've finished this s A fantastic sci-fi epic in the tradition of Simmons's Hyperion Cantos . In Ilium , as in the Hyperion books, Simmons really shows off his knowledge of classical literature. He obviously knows the Iliad and the Odyssey inside and out, but the author (through his characters) also fills this book with literary and historical references to Shakespeare, Proust, and a dozen other sources. It's ingenious and it made me to resolve to finally get around to reading the Iliad myself once I've finished this series. Set in the 40th century, Ilium is a retelling of the Iliad. Kind of. We begin with \"scholic\" Thomas Hockenberry, who was an early 21st century classics professor revived by the Olympian gods in the 40th century to monitor the ongoing Trojan War \u2014 which is taking place on Mars. \"Wait, what?\" you are thinking. The \"gods\" are creatures of super-science, using unimaginable powers of quantum manipulation and nanotechnology to take on the roles and attributes of the classical Greek deities. And not just the big names either \u2014 while all the old familiar gods like Zeus and Athena and Aphrodite of course figure heavily into the plot, Simmons, through his educated protagonist Hockenberry, encounters scores of minor named gods and heroes as well. Just why the gods are reenacting the Iliad on a terraformed Mars is not made clear by the end of this volume, but the heroes \u2014 Achilles, Hector, Paris, <---C>Odysseus</---C>, etc \u2014 are also as epic as the gods, thanks to both nanotech enhancements and literal interbreeding between gods and mortals, just like in the myths. Hockenberry and his fellow scholics are basically embedded journalists for the gods, but although they all know how the Iliad ends, they have been forbidden by Zeus to tell any of the other gods. The gods know that the scholics know how Homer said the story is supposed to end, but they've been forbidden to ask the scholics. So they continue playing their games with mortal lives. And then Hockenberry is recruited by one of the gods for a clandestine mission to kill another god. And with the \"magic artifacts\" he's been given, he's able to change a key event. And suddenly we're not in the Iliad anymore. And Hockenberry, who's now a dead man as soon as the gods catch up to him, decides to change the story completely. This would be a pretty awesome story all by itself, but in fact Hockenberry is only one of three main protagonists. There are two other subplots which eventually merge into the Iliad on Mars. A pair of \"Moravecs\" \u2014 a race of sentient robots built by post-humans before they disappeared, now living out among the moons of Jupiter \u2014 is on a mission of their own. Not having paid much attention to the inner system for generations, they discovered a lot of dangerous quantum manipulation and advanced terraforming on Mars. When they go to investigate, their ship is shot down... in orbit, by a bearded man in a chariot throwing a lightning bolt at them. Mahnmut and Orphu, the only two survivors, try to make it across Mars, aided by mysterious \"Little Green Men\" who seem to be creations of neither early humans nor the gods. The two robots, whose dialog is kind of reminiscent of R2D2 and C3PO, if C3PO were a Shakespeare scholar and R2D2 were fond of Proust, add a bit of comedy relief to the story, but eventually have a role to play in the climactic confrontation between gods and mortals. Finally, there are the last surviving humans on Earth, a tiny population of laborless dilettantes with little to do but go to parties and play musical beds. Their world has been created by the long-gone post-humans, who created teleportation networks around the world, set up a system in which all remaining humans are carefully population-controlled and do not have to work or want for anything. They are granted perfect health until their \"fifth twenty,\" when they report for extermination ascension to the outer rings, Logan's Run -style. But as Eloi-like as the remaining human race may be (they are actually called \"Eloi\" by one of the old-time humans they later meet), the spark of curiosity hasn't completely died in all of them. A few set off on an unplanned adventure, and discover truths about their world... and that there are Morlocks. Ilium is so rich in world-building and has such a tangled plot that there were occasional bits that lost me \u2014 I am still not sure of the role of Caliban, the Little Green Men are just strange, and we don't yet have an answer to the question of why super-advanced godlike beings have resurrected the entire cast of the Iliad on a terraformed Mars. But hopefully those questions will be answered in the second book, which I will be reading soon. ...more I've only read one chapter but I can already tell the writing is so unbelievably brilliant. Insta-love for me. According to the cover for Ilium , it was nominated for the Hugo Novel of the Year in 2004. It absolutely deserved it. It also didn't win, and it deserved that as well. Don't get me wrong. It's a great book and I loved reading it (indeed, this was the second time I read it and I think I enjoyed it more the second time). It's really three stories all happening in different places in the solar system at the same time, inevitably approaching one another. It's rare to find a book tries this and does According to the cover for Ilium , it was nominated for the Hugo Novel of the Year in 2004. It absolutely deserved it. It also didn't win, and it deserved that as well. Don't get me wrong. It's a great book and I loved reading it (indeed, this was the second time I read it and I think I enjoyed it more the second time). It's really three stories all happening in different places in the solar system at the same time, inevitably approaching one another. It's rare to find a book tries this and does it well, and Ilium does it well. The main hook of Ilium is that it's a science fiction book set in the Trojan war of Homer's Iliad . It also mixes in a healthy dose of Shakespeare and even Proust. And this all contributes to a fine and wonderful story, but it's also Ilium 's downfall. At parts, the Iliad thing starts to feel gimmicky. It's not often, but it's enough to keep me from giving the book five stars. On the whole, it's well-written. Every once in a while, the author tries to conjure up some convoluted imagery which is ridiculous enough that I just laughed at the poor sentence structure instead of being struck by whatever he was trying to tell me. But that was rare and for the most part I didn't notice the language at all. So I loved the book, but it's ever-so-slighty flawed. Still, it was much better than even this review is, and I'll definitely be reading it a third time in the future. But now, I'm looking forward to starting the sequel Olympos . Onward. ...more Prepare to have mind blown. I like dense reads, and I like immersing myself in complex worlds created by brilliant minds... but never, NEVER have I read a more astonishingly complex novel. 1/2 the way through this gigantic mind bender I was still completely without a clue about what was going on in the book. The fact that I and so many others rate this book so highly tells you a little something about our Mr. Simmons and the quality of his writing. Who get's away with this?? Nobody does... excpet Prepare to have mind blown. I like dense reads, and I like immersing myself in complex worlds created by brilliant minds... but never, NEVER have I read a more astonishingly complex novel. 1/2 the way through this gigantic mind bender I was still completely without a clue about what was going on in the book. The fact that I and so many others rate this book so highly tells you a little something about our Mr. Simmons and the quality of his writing. Who get's away with this?? Nobody does... excpet for Dan. Read this book, dont give up because you dont understand it, it is well worth it. ...more I can't seem to say enough in the way of praise for Dan Simmons. The guy is a frickin' genius and one of the best writers working in any genre today. \"Ilium\" is his science fiction magnum opus. It is a grand epic in the same way Tolkein's \"Lord of the Rings\" trilogy and Frank Herbert's \"Dune\" series were grand epics in their genre. The funny thing is Simmons's \"Ilium\" is a sci-fi epic ABOUT one of the greatest epics of all time, Homer's \"The Iliad\". Well, it's not so much about \"The Iliad\" as it I can't seem to say enough in the way of praise for Dan Simmons. The guy is a frickin' genius and one of the best writers working in any genre today. \"Ilium\" is his science fiction magnum opus. It is a grand epic in the same way Tolkein's \"Lord of the Rings\" trilogy and Frank Herbert's \"Dune\" series were grand epics in their genre. The funny thing is Simmons's \"Ilium\" is a sci-fi epic ABOUT one of the greatest epics of all time, Homer's \"The Iliad\". Well, it's not so much about \"The Iliad\" as it is a very strange and wonderful re-imagining of the greatest epic poems in Western Civilization. The book is hard to describe, but here goes my attempt at explaining it: In the distant future (it is very unclear how distant), the planet Mars has been taken over by the Greek gods. Zeus, Hera, Aphrodite, Apollo, et al live on their new Mount Olympus, appropriately located on the peaks of Olympus Mons. Not only that, but the ancient city of Troy, along with all its Trojan citizens, as well as all the Greek warriors, led by Agammemnon, Menelaus, and Achilles, have been miraculously resurrected to play out the entire 10-year Trojan War. Again. Strangely enough, 20th-century college professor Thomas Hockenberry has also been resurrected (along with other scholars) to report to the gods on how accurately the participants of this Martian re-creation are adhering to the original. Having no clue as to how (or even why) he has been resurrected along with the others, frustrated Hockenberry decides to switch things up and \"interfere\" in the classic story. Meanwhile, the few remaining human survivors (roughly 3,000+) on Earth are blissfully unaware of what's happening on the neighboring planet until some curiosity-filled Earthlings decide to find out where all the other billions of Earthlings went, who (or what) keeps providing them with a continuous source of food and shelter, and why they only have a 100-year life expectancy, no more and no less. Then a 600+ year-old woman named Savi shows up, claiming to remember the days when the world was filled with people, and she introduces the Earthlings to a friend of hers, an even older gentleman who calls himself Odysseus. There's also a pair of Shakespeare-and Proust-quoting robots from Jupiter's moons who arrive on Mars, investigating some strange readings that would indicate the existence of a presence more powerful than anything they have ever studied before. Unfortunately, they are shot down by one of Zeus's lightening bolts, and immediately rescued by hundreds of adorable mute LGMs (Little Green Men). I know it all sounds strange, and I'd be lying if I said it wasn't, but it's one of those books that sucks you in and never lets up. A grand and weird blend of space opera, fantasy, hard science fiction, humor, and literary criticism, \"Ilium\" is definitely one of the best and most original science fiction novels I have read in a long time. Nominated for a Hugo, \"Ilium\" is the first of a series, continued in the second book \"Olympos\". ...more The Iliad serves as the starting point here (\"Sing, O Muse, of the rage of Achilles...\"), and from there Dan Simmons proceeds to amaze you with some of the most literate science fiction you'll ever read. The story unfolds in three parts, which are skillfully woven together to increase dramatic tension as the plot lines spiral closer to each other. The end of Ilium is a soft stop, there is some closure but it leaves much open for the next book Olympos. The science fiction is the good stuff that s The Iliad serves as the starting point here (\"Sing, O Muse, of the rage of Achilles...\"), and from there Dan Simmons proceeds to amaze you with some of the most literate science fiction you'll ever read. The story unfolds in three parts, which are skillfully woven together to increase dramatic tension as the plot lines spiral closer to each other. The end of Ilium is a soft stop, there is some closure but it leaves much open for the next book Olympos. The science fiction is the good stuff that sci-fi fans want and need. We're talking quantum teleportation, nanotechnology, sentient cybernetics, a light hint of time travel... the works. The literature references are numerous and impressive. You don't have to get all the references to make this book enjoyable; but getting some of them will make you feel quite well read. When you get a little Proust, a lot of Shakespeare, a dash of Browning, mixed in with twists on Homer, Aristophanes, and Virgil, you know this isn't lightweight stuff. ...more Primero de todo decir que he le\u00eddo este libro en la versi\u00f3n de dos vol\u00famenes y por lo tanto solo me he le\u00eddo esta primera parte. La historia de cada una de las tres tramas me parece muy original y fresca, pero si tuviera que quedarme con alguna ser\u00eda sin duda aquella que hace referencia a la Il\u00edada de Homero. Esa mezcla de Guerra de Troya, Dioses griegos posthumanos y ese toque de ciencia ficci\u00f3n, me ha parecido una verdadera locura. Ojala todo el libro fuera sobre ello XD La incertidumbre de no sa Primero de todo decir que he le\u00eddo este libro en la versi\u00f3n de dos vol\u00famenes y por lo tanto solo me he le\u00eddo esta primera parte. La historia de cada una de las tres tramas me parece muy original y fresca, pero si tuviera que quedarme con alguna ser\u00eda sin duda aquella que hace referencia a la Il\u00edada de Homero. Esa mezcla de Guerra de Troya, Dioses griegos posthumanos y ese toque de ciencia ficci\u00f3n, me ha parecido una verdadera locura. Ojala todo el libro fuera sobre ello XD La incertidumbre de no saber por donde van los tiros, aunque tengo una hipotesis en la cabeza, ayuda a que uno se enganche a esta lectura. El libro esta muy bien escrito y solo la irregularidad de las otras dos tramas, algo m\u00e1s lentas y con quiz\u00e1s m\u00e1s necesidad de tiempo para madurar, evitan que le ponga las 5 estrellas por ahora. Igual cuando me lea la segunda parte la cosa cambia. Lectura muy recomendable para cualquiera que le guste la buena ciencia ficci\u00f3n. Como siempre, os dejo el enlace a mi blog por si quer\u00e9is leer la rese\u00f1a m\u00e1s completa que he colgado all\u00ed. http://fantasiascifiymuchomas.blogspo... ...more In spite of the violent content, I really like Dan Simmons' Hyperion and its sequel. This book looked like it had potential. For reasons unknown, the Greek gods are kicking it on Mars and the Trojan War is being fought with a lot of their participation. Now the book starts throwing in all sorts of sci-fi wonders...nice, but not enough to save this. First- it's far too detailed and has too many repeated references to the Iliad. Second, some seriously unbelievable things happen several times. And th In spite of the violent content, I really like Dan Simmons' Hyperion and its sequel. This book looked like it had potential. For reasons unknown, the Greek gods are kicking it on Mars and the Trojan War is being fought with a lot of their participation. Now the book starts throwing in all sorts of sci-fi wonders...nice, but not enough to save this. First- it's far too detailed and has too many repeated references to the Iliad. Second, some seriously unbelievable things happen several times. And third, it's crippled by too much witholding of revelations. You could feel the author doing this over and over. Proof positive for this is that, after seven hundred and twenty-five pages of reading, you are just now STARTING a major conflict and many things are as yet unexplained and unresolved. The sequel takes you there, if you have the staying power. I made it through the first one, but even though I bought the second one inexpensively at the same time as I got the first, I won't be reading it. ...more Dan Simmons, one of my favorite authors. This book has it all, it has the Trojans, Troy, and the Iliad. Aliens, robots, and Gods of all sizes. This book is a blast to read and will appeal to fantasy readers, science fiction readers, and even to historical fiction readers. A must read. Holy bloody freakin' incredible hell. Or Hades. Whatever. I'm... I have no words. Seriously. This was beyond brilliant. I don't know who took Dan Simmon's brain, drugged it up, sprinkled it with colours and glitter to come up with THAT but please do it again. Often. Ilium is a wild mixture of science-fiction, fantasy, a history (or should I say literature?) lesson, and awesomeness. And it's only the first part - don't think you can get in other books between Ilium and its sequel Olympos (I wante Holy bloody freakin' incredible hell. Or Hades. Whatever. I'm... I have no words. Seriously. This was beyond brilliant. I don't know who took Dan Simmon's brain, drugged it up, sprinkled it with colours and glitter to come up with THAT but please do it again. Often. Ilium is a wild mixture of science-fiction, fantasy, a history (or should I say literature?) lesson, and awesomeness. And it's only the first part - don't think you can get in other books between Ilium and its sequel Olympos (I wanted to, but now I can't). In Ilium, you follow three different, but somehow converging story lines. The first one is that of scholar Hockenberry, Ilias expert, originally from the 20th/21st century, dead and revived by the old Greek Gods and taken to the Olymp - or at least the Olympos Mons on Mars. Yes, you've heard right, the old Greek Gods. Zeus, Hera, Athene, Aphrodite, Apollo, and the whole rest, augmented by nanotechnology, quantum teleportation, and lots of other interesting stuff. And why would the Greek Gods want Hockenberry and other scholars to live? Because the Ilias is happening right at this moment, and Zeus wants them to look for any discrepancies between Homer's opus and the real life happenings. And it IS real life. You get Achilles and Hector and Helena and the rest of the whole bunch - and they fight and slaughter and kill to the best of their abilities. The second story line starts pretty far away from all these events - to be precise on the Jupiter moon Europa. There, a few biomechanical, intelligent, technologically highly advanced, conscious Moravecs - further enhancements of robots brought by humans to the outer Solar System - are worried because of the massive quantum disturbances they detect on Mars. So, they send out a small group of Moravecs to have a look at what's going on there, and to stop it if necessary. Part of the four-Moravec-crew are best friends Mahnmut, a little Moravec originally stationed in the deep sea on Europa and Shakespeare fan, and Orphu, a high vacuum Moravec from Jupiter's moon Io and Proust aficionado. While their journey is peaceful, their welcome committee isn't so much, and soon Mahnmut and Orphu have to put together every creative shred of their mostly synthetic bodies to get their mission done. The third story line is earth-bound and deals with humans as we know them. Or almost. Served by servitors and voynixes (I have no idea about the English names, since I've read it in German, but that's not really important anyhow, is it? ;-D), the human race has become complacent and dull. The few human exemplars still living have forgotten how to read, how to care, and how to ask questions. Living lives focused on party, sex, and food, freed of the fear of any sudden and permanent death, and fed with stories about their afterlife and the eternal normalcy of their behaviour, they know nothing about the world they live in. But Harman, on the verge of reaching the age of 100 and therefore destined to die soon, is not satisfied. Hungry for life, he cannot accept his close demise and looks for answers in a world that doesn't know questions. On his quest, he takes with him Ada, Daeman, and Hannah - and finds Savi, the only human existing who is old enough to still remember a different world. Who can guide them along on a dangerous path to see for themselves what this world of theirs is made of. Where are the \"Post-humans\"? Why do humans live to a hundred and no longer? Why are they cared for like children? And who or better what are these voynixes? Aside from the craziness of the story itself, here is what I loved the most about it: the character portrayals and the perfectly thought through details. I loved Mahnmut and Orphu who, probably deliberately, defy their inhuman and synthetic exterior and have the most touching, human, and incredibly caring conversations (and show the behaviour and actions to match them) in the entire book. I enjoyed Daeman's development - a complete ignorant and arrogant idiot at first who in the fight for his own life and the life of others finds a strength in himself that he - and I as the reader - would have never thought him capable of. I loved how the Greek fighting scenes sounded so very Greek because they always began with a minute listing of who was where and said and did what. I enjoyed the fact that so much wasn't explained, that I had to just accept all the details at first and only later started to understand what they meant, how things worked together. How the whole world functioned. I had so many hypotheses while reading about where it was really set, what the time course might be, and I still have no idea now, but I LOVED all that. That I had to work, too, didn't only consume, but tried to interpret all the clues I got and still didn't manage to make up a coherent picture. And I still always felt that there WAS a coherent picture, I just didn't/couldn't see it. This is so very much recommended to anyone who thinks he/she could enjoy such a story, really let go and dive in. Because this book is brilliant. Especially the last 50 to 100 pages. Seriously. And now I'm off reading Olympos. ...more A book should not be hard to read. To pick up a book, and to read the words and enjoy them should not be hard, it should just be. Reading this book was hard. Every moment I normally would pick up a book to read a little I would pick up this, and every time I did not look forward to it. It baffles me; I could have sworn that I enjoyed Hyperion and that it was well-written, could I have been so wrong? This was not enjoyable, it was not well-written, and it was so hugely disappointing. 700 pages is A book should not be hard to read. To pick up a book, and to read the words and enjoy them should not be hard, it should just be. Reading this book was hard. Every moment I normally would pick up a book to read a little I would pick up this, and every time I did not look forward to it. It baffles me; I could have sworn that I enjoyed Hyperion and that it was well-written, could I have been so wrong? This was not enjoyable, it was not well-written, and it was so hugely disappointing. 700 pages is a lot to ask of a person, especially when the story is divided into what could be three books and each book filled with characters who are not in the slightest interesting or fleshed out. What bothers me most is the gods and the heroes of the Iliad. This was my chance to see some characterization of all my favorite mythological badasses and it failed so astoundingly. Diomedes, my favorite character from the Iliad, is nothing more than a spear or a weapon, and the only descriptions of him are as a bumbling greedy oaf. Odysseus is a bulky, bear of a man who seems neither cunning nor clever, and most of the characters seem rather monstrous. At least in the Homeric versions there is no authorial opinion given for actions, just statements of fact. If Jason (who was a total douche) wanted to love and leave women then he could damn well do it without the writer telling us what a dick he was, all of the characters here are colored by perspectives I don't care about and find rather frustrating. Ultimately, it felt as if Simmons wanted to show off what he had studied, not a story or characters or any of the things that I tend to like in a book. 350 loooong pages into the book nearly nothing has happened. There is lots of posturing and pondering but very, very, little has progressed the story forward. It is as if most of the novel is filler, Simmons just plugging away to fill some page quota. Additionally, and more irritatingly, the prose is awful, really just awful. Adverbs are awesome, but I don't need them for something that is obvious, dammit. Typing DO NOT DISOBEY ME in caps and bold makes me believe Zeus is angry, you don't have to follow it with, 'Zeus bellowed angrily'. Seriously, it is like a high school paper. Every event is reiterated and things pointed out earlier are reiterated again, as if I couldn't just look it up if I forgot something. This is a jumbled mess of showboating and condescension (or at least underestimation) of the audience and I can no more tolerate it from an author I thought I liked than by one I know I do not. ...more Hands down the best scifi that I\u2019ve read in the last ten years. This was the first time that I\u2019d read Dan Simmons and I was floored by the depth of his characters, the complexity of his plot, and the intricate and fascinating world(s) he created. I personally liked the feeling over never really knowing more than any of the characters. I enjoyed the mystery of being on level with the characters, unsure of what would come next. Nothing about this is a light read. The book treats you like an adult Hands down the best scifi that I\u2019ve read in the last ten years. This was the first time that I\u2019d read Dan Simmons and I was floored by the depth of his characters, the complexity of his plot, and the intricate and fascinating world(s) he created. I personally liked the feeling over never really knowing more than any of the characters. I enjoyed the mystery of being on level with the characters, unsure of what would come next. Nothing about this is a light read. The book treats you like an adult, and you\u2019re going to have to work for it. You\u2019ll never guess what comes next. I\u2019m also ecstatic to see a return of \u201cmonsters.\u201d I\u2019ve been so sick of reading about the clich\u00e9 evil human, terrible bad person, delighting in torture, etc that all modern authors seem to use as the arch villain. Yes, we get it, people have a huge capacity for doing evil. I watch the news nightly and I already know that. To see a return of Cetebos, Voynix, and other creepy-crawlies was exciting and refreshing. Robots, monsters, Greek gods, humans fighting for survival, Gaia Hypothesis, dinosaurs. This book has it all, and it has it all well. Its takes a true master to weave this sort of story together. You will not be disappointed by Simmons. I was absolutely floored by this book. It is simply genius. It got my blood pumping, my mouth watered, I was stressed and in love with the characters. ...more \u0427\u0435\u0442\u0438\u0440\u0438\u043d\u0430\u0439\u0441\u0435\u0442 \u0433\u043e\u0434\u0438\u043d\u0438 \u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434 \u043d\u0430\u0439-\u043f\u043e\u043f\u0443\u043b\u044f\u0440\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0438 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0438\u0437\u0432\u0435\u0434\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u201e\u0425\u0438\u043f\u0435\u0440\u0438\u043e\u043d\u201c \u0414\u0430\u043d \u0421\u0438\u043c\u044a\u043d\u0441 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u044f \u043d\u0430 \u0437\u0430\u0436\u0430\u0434\u043d\u044f\u043b\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043f\u0443\u0431\u043b\u0438\u043a\u0430 \u0441\u0432\u043e\u044f \u043d\u043e\u0432 \u0440\u043e\u043c\u0430\u043d \u201e\u0418\u043b\u0438\u043e\u043d\u201c, \u0432 \u043a\u043e\u0439\u0442\u043e \u0437\u0430\u043b\u0430\u0433\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u0437\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0444\u043e\u0440\u043c\u0443\u043b\u0430: \u043f\u0430\u0440\u0430\u043b\u0435\u043b\u043d\u0438 \u0438 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u0432\u0438\u0434\u043d\u043e \u043d\u0435\u0441\u0432\u044a\u0440\u0437\u0430\u043d\u0438 \u0441\u044e\u0436\u0435\u0442\u043d\u0438 \u043b\u0438\u043d\u0438\u0438 \u043f\u043b\u044e\u0441 \u0437\u0430\u0433\u0430\u0434\u043a\u0438. \u0422\u043e\u0437\u0438 \u043f\u044a\u0442 \u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0430 \u043a\u043e\u043c\u0431\u0438\u043d\u0438\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0438 \u0441 \u043b\u0438\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0443\u0440\u043d\u0438 \u0430\u043d\u0430\u043b\u0438\u0437\u0438 for Dummies, \u0438 \u043f\u043e\u0434\u0441\u043b\u0430\u0434\u0435\u043d\u0438 \u0441 \u043e\u043f\u0438\u0441\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f \u043d\u0430 \u0436\u0435\u043d\u0438, \u0437\u0430 \u043a\u043e\u0438\u0442\u043e \u0430\u0432\u0442\u043e\u0440\u044a\u0442 \u043d\u0438 \u0441\u044a\u043e\u0431\u0449\u0430\u0432\u0430, \u0447\u0435 \u0431\u0438\u043b\u0438 \u0441\u0435\u043a\u0441\u0438. \u0414\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u0436\u0430 \u043d\u044f\u043a\u043e\u043b\u043a\u043e \u0434\u0443\u043c\u0438 \u0437\u0430 \u0441\u044e\u0436\u0435\u0442\u0430, \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u0434\u0440\u044a\u043f\u043d\u0430 \u0434\u044f\u0432\u043e\u043b\u0430 \u0437\u0430 \u043e\u043f\u0430\u0448\u043a\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u0438\u0437\u0440\u0430\u0437\u044f \u043d\u0435\u0433\u0430\u0442\u0438\u0432\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0438 \u043e\u0442\u043d\u043e\u0448\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u043a\u044a\u043c \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430\u0442\u0430. \u041f\u044a\u0440\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0438 \u043d\u0430 \u0427\u0435\u0442\u0438\u0440\u0438\u043d\u0430\u0439\u0441\u0435\u0442 \u0433\u043e\u0434\u0438\u043d\u0438 \u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434 \u043d\u0430\u0439-\u043f\u043e\u043f\u0443\u043b\u044f\u0440\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0438 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0438\u0437\u0432\u0435\u0434\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u201e\u0425\u0438\u043f\u0435\u0440\u0438\u043e\u043d\u201c \u0414\u0430\u043d \u0421\u0438\u043c\u044a\u043d\u0441 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u044f \u043d\u0430 \u0437\u0430\u0436\u0430\u0434\u043d\u044f\u043b\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043f\u0443\u0431\u043b\u0438\u043a\u0430 \u0441\u0432\u043e\u044f \u043d\u043e\u0432 \u0440\u043e\u043c\u0430\u043d \u201e\u0418\u043b\u0438\u043e\u043d\u201c, \u0432 \u043a\u043e\u0439\u0442\u043e \u0437\u0430\u043b\u0430\u0433\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u0437\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0444\u043e\u0440\u043c\u0443\u043b\u0430: \u043f\u0430\u0440\u0430\u043b\u0435\u043b\u043d\u0438 \u0438 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u0432\u0438\u0434\u043d\u043e \u043d\u0435\u0441\u0432\u044a\u0440\u0437\u0430\u043d\u0438 \u0441\u044e\u0436\u0435\u0442\u043d\u0438 \u043b\u0438\u043d\u0438\u0438 \u043f\u043b\u044e\u0441 \u0437\u0430\u0433\u0430\u0434\u043a\u0438. \u0422\u043e\u0437\u0438 \u043f\u044a\u0442 \u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0430 \u043a\u043e\u043c\u0431\u0438\u043d\u0438\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0438 \u0441 \u043b\u0438\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0443\u0440\u043d\u0438 \u0430\u043d\u0430\u043b\u0438\u0437\u0438 for Dummies, \u0438 \u043f\u043e\u0434\u0441\u043b\u0430\u0434\u0435\u043d\u0438 \u0441 \u043e\u043f\u0438\u0441\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f \u043d\u0430 \u0436\u0435\u043d\u0438, \u0437\u0430 \u043a\u043e\u0438\u0442\u043e \u0430\u0432\u0442\u043e\u0440\u044a\u0442 \u043d\u0438 \u0441\u044a\u043e\u0431\u0449\u0430\u0432\u0430, \u0447\u0435 \u0431\u0438\u043b\u0438 \u0441\u0435\u043a\u0441\u0438. \u0414\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u0436\u0430 \u043d\u044f\u043a\u043e\u043b\u043a\u043e \u0434\u0443\u043c\u0438 \u0437\u0430 \u0441\u044e\u0436\u0435\u0442\u0430, \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u0434\u0440\u044a\u043f\u043d\u0430 \u0434\u044f\u0432\u043e\u043b\u0430 \u0437\u0430 \u043e\u043f\u0430\u0448\u043a\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u0438\u0437\u0440\u0430\u0437\u044f \u043d\u0435\u0433\u0430\u0442\u0438\u0432\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0438 \u043e\u0442\u043d\u043e\u0448\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u043a\u044a\u043c \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430\u0442\u0430. \u041f\u044a\u0440\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0438 \u043d\u0430\u0439-\u0447\u0435\u0441\u0442\u043e \u0446\u0438\u0442\u0438\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0441\u044e\u0436\u0435\u0442\u043d\u0430 \u043b\u0438\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0435 \u0441\u0438\u043c\u044a\u043d\u0441\u043e\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0432\u0435\u0440\u0441\u0438\u044f \u043d\u0430 \u201e\u0418\u043b\u0438\u0430\u0434\u0430\u0442\u0430\u201c. \u0412 \u043d\u0435\u044f \u0441\u0445\u043e\u043b\u0430\u0441\u0442\u0438\u043a\u044a\u0442 \u0425\u043e\u043a\u044a\u043d\u0431\u0435\u0440\u0438 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434\u044f\u0432\u0430 \u043e\u0431\u0441\u0430\u0434\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0422\u0440\u043e\u044f. \u041e\u0449\u0435... ...more The plot of this book is to complex to even attempt to go into but it has a dead historian recording events of the Trojan war for the gods, strange humans on a seemingly distant future earth, a machine race of explorers living on the outskirts of the solar system, and Shakespeare. Believe it or not they all go together in not such a surreal way as you might think. The characters are well rounded and evolve with the story. I don't know that it has important moral implications in the world but it The plot of this book is to complex to even attempt to go into but it has a dead historian recording events of the Trojan war for the gods, strange humans on a seemingly distant future earth, a machine race of explorers living on the outskirts of the solar system, and Shakespeare. Believe it or not they all go together in not such a surreal way as you might think. The characters are well rounded and evolve with the story. I don't know that it has important moral implications in the world but it was very entertaining to read. ...more Ilium defies description. It's epic sci-fi with huge twists, characters tempting fate, some fickle and furious Greek gods, Achilles and Hector from Homer's Iliad, Shakespeare-spouting robots from Jupiter, oh, and some trippy worm holes. It's good stuff. Video thoughts at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zIeLP... I thought that the best I was ever going to read from Simmons was his Hyperion series. That thought was seriously challenged with Ilium, and it's sequel, Olympos. The way that Simmons weaves the tale of Troy into a science fiction masterpiece is absolutely astounding. For high school and college student who struggled greatly and mightily through Homer's epic poems, these two books should be required reading BEFORE reading Homer's actual work. Simmons's knowledge of the stories, it's characters, I thought that the best I was ever going to read from Simmons was his Hyperion series. That thought was seriously challenged with Ilium, and it's sequel, Olympos. The way that Simmons weaves the tale of Troy into a science fiction masterpiece is absolutely astounding. For high school and college student who struggled greatly and mightily through Homer's epic poems, these two books should be required reading BEFORE reading Homer's actual work. Simmons's knowledge of the stories, it's characters, and the way he brings them to life puts everything I have ever known or read about the Iliad to absolute shame! I could have given Troy not another thought in my life, along with all of the gods and their convoluted family, which through Homer's account, and unless you are an enthusiastic scholar of Greek history, is pretty boring and hard to follow, especially considering the day and age we live in today. It is almost impossible to put into modern context the lives and the interactions of the gods with mortals with today's vernacular. Yet, not only does Simmons succeed in this, he makes the story vastly more interesting and intriguing than the original. There is only one qualification I can put on this book, THE SEQUEL IS EVEN BETTER!!! I cannot recommend this book highly enough and haven't lost as much sleep this past week reading both books than I have with any book in a very long time. This book and it's sequel are going to be gifts for many people in the future. READ IT!!!! ...more I went through a full spectrum of emotions while reading this book. Swinging between laughter, horror, sadness, boredom and confusion. The first half of the book I had no idea really what was going on, who was who and what the main plot of the story was. I mean there are aliens, Greek gods on Mars and a dinosaur! Who puts that lot into one story? I still dont think I can really explain the plot and characters to someone who hasn't read this book without sounding crazy and just rambling. About 50% I went through a full spectrum of emotions while reading this book. Swinging between laughter, horror, sadness, boredom and confusion. The first half of the book I had no idea really what was going on, who was who and what the main plot of the story was. I mean there are aliens, Greek gods on Mars and a dinosaur! Who puts that lot into one story? I still dont think I can really explain the plot and characters to someone who hasn't read this book without sounding crazy and just rambling. About 50% into the book I was ready to give in. The characters were too confusing, the plot just too obscure for me and too heavily sci-fi for my normal tastes. But im glad I persevered, the story line was still confusing but made more sense the further in to the book that I got and I actually started to care about the characters in the end. The Moravecs had to be my favourite, they provided the comic relief for me. I would actually recommend this book to people after all. Only if they have an interest in heavy sci-fi though, some of the technological explanations flew right over my head. ...more This is an absolute marvel, its ingenuity is second to none genre-wise. I totally enjoyed this, though for the life of me, I anticipate explain why it has taken me more than six months to read this beautiful book? On and off of course. It wasn't as straight forward as most other Dan Simmons I've read, and yes, I did struggle just a bit at the beginning, but once I got the plot mechanism, everything flowed like a charm. The story is beautifully crafted, the characters are amazing and the warping This is an absolute marvel, its ingenuity is second to none genre-wise. I totally enjoyed this, though for the life of me, I anticipate explain why it has taken me more than six months to read this beautiful book? On and off of course. It wasn't as straight forward as most other Dan Simmons I've read, and yes, I did struggle just a bit at the beginning, but once I got the plot mechanism, everything flowed like a charm. The story is beautifully crafted, the characters are amazing and the warping of the events in the Iliad came off beautifully ...more ZApravo puno lo\u0161ije nego sam o\u010dekivao. Opet, Simmons pi\u0161e kao nitko, precizan je i pjevan; ritmi\u010dan i bogat.. No, pri\u010da kao pri\u010da me malo(krc malo, puno) umorila, eto. An alternate future earth where humans have forgotten how to read. Living robots who share a love of classic literature. An ancient Greek battle where iconic heroes do battle with the gods of Olympus. Mix these all up in a space opera novel (or two) and you get the novels Ilium by Dan Simmons. This complex, lengthy tome is quite the journey, spanning two books (the second is Olympos, but I\u2019m just writing one review for both novels). The plot lines are so complicated and detailed (indeed, each b An alternate future earth where humans have forgotten how to read. Living robots who share a love of classic literature. An ancient Greek battle where iconic heroes do battle with the gods of Olympus. Mix these all up in a space opera novel (or two) and you get the novels Ilium by Dan Simmons. This complex, lengthy tome is quite the journey, spanning two books (the second is Olympos, but I\u2019m just writing one review for both novels). The plot lines are so complicated and detailed (indeed, each book is over 700 pages long!) that I\u2019m surprised he used a two-book format rather than the usual trilogy series. Set in the far future, with three disparate plots, seemingly unconnected to each other, one wonders what they\u2019re doing in the same book. One storyline includes man-made robots \u201cliving\u201d throughout the solar system. They actually have organic parts in their bodies, and have been programmed to have human curiosity, and a fascination with the arts. Two robots in particular, a small biped named Mahnmut and a large, horseshoe crab-like moravec called Orphu, are from moons of Jupiter, and are fascinated with human culture and feelings. They develop a strong bond as they are recruited to investigate an astonishingly rapid terraforming of Mars. Another story involves humans living an idyllic life, their entire existence focused on superficial, meaningless activities, casual sex, shallow parties, etc. In fact, they\u2019ve lost a basic curiosity of life and science, and don\u2019t care about anything beyond the current fashion or trends. However, a few of them develop a fascination with ancient skills and trades, and start learning how to melt and pour metal, actually read from books, travel without the use of fax nodes or being pulled along by servitors. Their amusing hobby soon turns into necessary skills of survival. Also, there is a story involving the siege of Troy, or Ilium, as the author puts it. A scholar (scholic) who was re-assembled after his natural death on earth is covertly asked by the goddess Aphrodite to use magical (actually, advanced technological) devices to kill Athena. The scholic, Hockenberry, is an expert on the Trojan War, and knows how it\u2019s supposed to play out. However, with this wrench (or should I say, \u2018knife\u2019?) thrown into the battle plans, how will the war between the Greeks and Trojans conclude? Again, three seemingly different and independent plotlines that gradually (at a snail\u2019s pace!) come together and form a larger picture of an epic story that transcends time and space, literally. There are some bizarre characters that play the same roles as their namesakes from Shakespeare\u2019s The Tempest. Not being familiar with that story, I Googled it just to get a better understanding of Caliban, Prospero, Sycorax, et al. I found Simmon\u2019s use of these Shakespearean characters in his extraordinary setting interesting, but absurd. A lizard-like humanoid named Caliban? Really? I found these Shakespearean references somewhat jarring and abruptly removed me from the depths of the story. However, experiencing the ancient Greek gods and goddesses plotting against each other and playing their games with the lives of men (just as in the classic myths) was refreshing and satisfying. There is some heavy science in this fiction. Quantum teleportation, string theory, nanotechnology, and other technological ideas are used plainly and easily by the characters. Though a bit confusing initially, the context of the story allows the reader to gain a workable grasp of the more complex physics that are mentioned in the books. Ilium and Olympus are actually two acts of one story. The books are dense and in need of further editing, but the story is engaging for the most part, despite its daunting length. If you\u2019re adventurous enough to give it a try, be prepared to spend more time on these books than your usual literary fare. Be warned, however: the journey is much more enjoyable than the final destination. ...more I could probably sit here and write a grad-school length essay about Dan Simmons' Ilium, an aircraft carrier of a novel if I've ever seen one, but in the interest of your time and mine, I'm going to avoid describing the plot (which you could readily find anywhere, although I would argue that you are better served by NOT looking up the plot) and generally also avoid discussing literary themes. Instead I just want to tell you why this novel is pretty awesome. First of all, Ilium is just plain bold I could probably sit here and write a grad-school length essay about Dan Simmons' Ilium, an aircraft carrier of a novel if I've ever seen one, but in the interest of your time and mine, I'm going to avoid describing the plot (which you could readily find anywhere, although I would argue that you are better served by NOT looking up the plot) and generally also avoid discussing literary themes. Instead I just want to tell you why this novel is pretty awesome. First of all, Ilium is just plain bold and audacious, and on the strength of that boldness alone (which is to say: writing to adults, wrestling with history and literature, examining what makes men be men, makes women be women, and (to crib a line from Douglas Addams) makes little green men from Mars be little green men from Mars), I will give this novel five stars in my GoodReads review. Ilium has so much packed between its covers: the Greek Gods, the Trojan War, robots from Jupiter, the ethics of techno-resurrection, Shakespeare's \"Tempest\", sex and action and love and endless heartbreak, and somehow Simmons makes it all work! In addition to sheer audacity, Simmons scores another win by blending the words of Shakespeare and Homer (and Marcel Proust of all people) into a science fiction novel that is set thousands of years in the future, and he makes those writers' words not just some sort of thematic element, but entirely relevant to the plot at hand. Without giving too much away, any novel that features a giant, horseshoe-crab shaped robot who goes around quoting Proust deserves your rapt attention. What I like best about Ilium, however, are our three very unlikely heroes (two relatively ordinary men and one humble, little robot). Simmons does a masterful and subtle job of getting us- the readers- on his heroes' side without being cheap or resorting to sentimental, tug-at-your-heartstrings tactics. He shows wisdom and canny writing instincts by having specifically Ilium follow these three everyman types (even if one is an every-robot). Because the circumstances, structure, and secondary characters of the novel are often grand in scope, our three somewhat ordinary heroes become people with whom we can identify. In the same way that we can be entranced by watching a single bird make its way through a terrible lightning storm, Ilium benefits greatly by the scale of contrast, posing its ordinary protagonists against a background that is at once titanic and incredible, and Simmons really hits a sweet spot here. More than once, I actually pumped my fist in excitement as one of his heroes (usually his misplaced-in-time Homeric scholar, Thomas Hockenberry) manages to come through some incredible and dangerous circumstances. I have already ordered the sequel, Olympos, from my library and looking forward to learning what happens next! If this novel were an animal: It would be some titanic beast from Greek Mythology, like a lightning spitting Hydra. The Hydra, however, would be a big fan of classic books. If this book were a drink: Red wine. Harvested and fermented on a sunkissed shore in the Mediterranean and then transported on sleep blacks ships to a land of gods and neverending war. How to dress for this novel: Chest armor, grieves, and a sturdy helmet at at least. Probably not a bad idea to pick up a bronze shield as well. ...more Having recently reread the Iliad of Homer this book is a good follow-up both as a change, in genre, and as renewing my knowledge of the Iliad helps in understanding Simmons' novel. For in his novel Homer's relevance is more than an opening prop or gimmick. It is the Iliad that initially provides a bearing, a compass for the reader upon which the rest of the narrative depends, and without which, it could be argued, the rest, at least during the first third or so of the book, would unravel. This i Having recently reread the Iliad of Homer this book is a good follow-up both as a change, in genre, and as renewing my knowledge of the Iliad helps in understanding Simmons' novel. For in his novel Homer's relevance is more than an opening prop or gimmick. It is the Iliad that initially provides a bearing, a compass for the reader upon which the rest of the narrative depends, and without which, it could be argued, the rest, at least during the first third or so of the book, would unravel. This is a complicated novel with regard to plot and it is the familiarity of the Iliad storyline that initially binds the work together, serving as a sturdy foundation while the other two strands, at first seeming unrelated, gradually come together. Part humor, part literary space opera (and perhaps part mind game for intellectuals), Ilium is fascinating in its grand scope as well as the way it reimagines earlier works to conform to an entirely new epic type. Within it references abound, not only to literature but popular culture, current events, philosophy and recent concepts of physics. It can be difficult to keep one's bearings as the author's vision is so expansive that the scale of events, characters and themes so often touched upon or merely suggested, only to be later viewed from different circumstance or perspective. Much of what occurs throughout the novel is driven by anticipation of how the author will ultimately resolve and integrate all of his various plotlines, cast and speculation. Intriguing hints are laid, sometimes in opposition: Proust's exploration of time, memory and perception or the secret paths to the puzzle of life; the moravec Mahnmut's interpretation of Shakespeare's Sonnets as a dramatic construct; the interaction and influence of will, represented by Zeus, the Fates, and kaos, upon events taking place upon the plains of Ilium; the fulcrum Hockenberry is urged to find in order to change the outcome of Homer; or the identity of \"'A bitter heart that bides its time and bites.'\" Cosmologies and ontologies, as well as metaphors, are borrowed, their identities and purposes remaining unclear or unexplained, as is so much else by novel's end, though suspicions are delectably stirred. It is a novel that successfully entices the reader to continue the saga in the sequel, Olympos. ...more Imagine the Trojan war, imagine Mount Olympos with the entire pantheon of Greek gods, imagine a couple of sentient robots on a mission to do recon in Mars, imagine a post apocalyptic world where human beings are nothing but insensitive drones and to top it all off imagine a human trying to take Achilles and Hector to war against Zeus...this is what Ilium is about. Dan Simmons creates a mind boggling tale of Sci Fi, Myth and Fantasy merged into one. The tale starts off as seen from three perspecti Imagine the Trojan war, imagine Mount Olympos with the entire pantheon of Greek gods, imagine a couple of sentient robots on a mission to do recon in Mars, imagine a post apocalyptic world where human beings are nothing but insensitive drones and to top it all off imagine a human trying to take Achilles and Hector to war against Zeus...this is what Ilium is about. Dan Simmons creates a mind boggling tale of Sci Fi, Myth and Fantasy merged into one. The tale starts off as seen from three perspectives and barring one that initially has too much scientific jargon, the others are crack reads. What amazed and attracted me to the tale was the presence of literary persona as wide ranged as Shakespeare,Proust and Homer. The heroes of the greek drama are as alive in these pages as they were in the Iliad. The private ego clashes of the gods atop Olympos was a fresh perspective in the tale and so were the desperate efforts of the human race to understand and fight to overcome their miserable plight. My pick of characters from the tale are Odysseus & the little robot named Mahnmut. Needless to say the most intelligent and tactical of all heroes in the tale Odysseus is also the one with a vision beyond the obvious even though it is to serve his own ends. Mahnmut is the most humane of all characters in the tale even though he is not related to a human in any way and we are almost in the final quarter of the book when he finally gets to see a human. The passion for literature and the ability in comprehending emotions set the little robot and his pal Orphu apart. Hector and Achilles always the proud,noble and fierce warriors they are are almost jumping out of the pages in their battles to kills or be killed. Very rarely do i come across tales that fires up my imagination just as Ilium did and I am glad i found this book in a shelf in the library. As always with a book that I know has a sequel,I now await Olympos sans the literal baited breath... Recommended for those of who with a interest in the mythological and the fantastic.. ...more", "Title": "Ilium"},
