{"Comments": "I can't do it.<---F> I can't finish this book</---F>. Usually Palahniuk creates fairly unsympathetic characters,<---M> as in this book</---M>, and that I'm used to. Because it WORKS; the plot-lines of his books are always ridiculous in a totally fascinating way, which makes up for the stupid characters. However, <+++>Rant</+++> bored the fuck out of me. I tried. I read more than half and I do not care about this nutjob guy and his rabies and his slobbering all over the ladies, or the driving around in cars being obnoxious or whatev I can't do it. I can't finish this book. Usually Palahniuk creates fairly unsympathetic characters, as in this book, and that I'm used to. Because it WORKS; the plot-lines of his books are always ridiculous in a totally fascinating way, which makes up for the stupid characters. However, <+++>Rant</+++> bored the fuck out of me. I tried. I read more than half and I do not care about this nutjob guy and his rabies and his slobbering all over the ladies, or the driving around in cars being obnoxious or whatever other bullshit he's engaging in. Seriously, the ONE nice thing I can say about Palahniuk's writing is that it's amusing. It's all about as deep as a kiddie-pool (<---B>FILLED WITH PEE</---B>) but at least it's interesting. So this book fails in the one arena that Palahniuk is totally capable of: being morbidly amusing. Also: in the first like.. 10 pages or so.. he managed to work in: used maxi pads, black widow bites, rabies... I don't know, I forget now, but I'm pretty sure semen and excrement was in there too. See what you have reduced me to, Palahnkuik? I have mentioned pee, semen, and feces in this review of my DISLIKING of your stupid book. BEING DISGUSTING IS NOT BEING EDGY. For either one of us. Stop writing books, Palahniuk. I put a pox upon you. (I will take the pox off when you stop writing like a caricature of yourself and actually develop some substance rather than relying on shock-value and things that only a hipster dbag would find meaningful). Grade: F+ (Plus because I like the cover design). Edit: I realize I misspelled his name a few times in this review but: suck it, Palalalahiuk and all Palankik fans. It's your punishment (respectively) for pandering to hipsters/being a trendy hipster. Also.. I think I will have to actually go back and read this in its entirety someday. Because I'm still a bit curious. But.. someday. I'm too much of an elitist bitch to be able to enjoy it right now. ...more I'm not a Chuck P fan simply because he is \"edgy\" or because I get off on the so-called depravity of his often violent and sexual themes. I know a few folks like that. What I enjoyed most about this book was the structure, the measured reveal. Based on the oral tradition, each chapter is composed of brief statements from a cast of dozens. Individually, these narrators are hopelessly unreliable, but taken together they form a whole picture that is more true than any single testimony could be. (I' I'm not a Chuck P fan simply because he is \"edgy\" or because I get off on the so-called depravity of his often violent and sexual themes. I know a few folks like that. What I enjoyed most about this book was the structure, the measured reveal. Based on the oral tradition, each chapter is composed of brief statements from a cast of dozens. Individually, these narrators are hopelessly unreliable, but taken together they form a whole picture that is more true than any single testimony could be. (I'm a sucker for an unreliable narrator, so give me a couple dozen and I'm in heaven.) Some critics accuse the author of choosing gruesome subject matter for shock value, but (in this book, at least) I found the weaving of those violent themes to be compelling rather than repugnant. Another aspect I appreciated was the inclusion of \"experts\" whose testimonies were full of academic and theoretical pontifications. I think that was Chuck poking fun at himself and his \"edgy\" reputation. ...more WTF did I just read and why did I finish it? This book is a mish-mash of narrators, grossness, time travel, car crashes, a rabies plague, segregation and dull characters. I kept hoping it would improve and then it was just over. This story somewhat follows a dull-witted character named Buster or Rant (as he's better known) who gets off on catching rabies. His attraction to pain and rabies eventually leads to a rabies plague. The story is told from the various and far too many points of view of p WTF did I just read and why did I finish it? This book is a mish-mash of narrators, grossness, time travel, car crashes, a rabies plague, segregation and dull characters. I kept hoping it would improve and then it was just over. This story somewhat follows a dull-witted character named Buster or Rant (as he's better known) who gets off on catching rabies. His attraction to pain and rabies eventually leads to a rabies plague. The story is told from the various and far too many points of view of people who stumbled across \u201cRant\u201d during his life. In this world people are either \u201cdaytimers\u201d or \u201cnighttimers\u201d. The two don't mix, they have curfews and are fined if they break 'em. The problem here, besides 20 too many narrators, is that they all have different opinions about what Rant did or didn\u2019t do and it's hard to discern what is truth, lie or confusion. It took many a rewinding before I just let the frigging thing go and then things started to gel somewhat. From what I can gather Rant grows up in a stereotypical small white-trashy town which appears to be the dumping ground for unwanted dogs, tampons and used condoms. Somehow he has a superhuman sense of smell and can sniff out a soiled condom or tampon and know from whom it once belonged to. Now that\u2019s a talent there I\u2019ll never envy. Lucky for Rant there seems to be lots of them floating about in this town as the \u201csex tornado\u201d hits constantly and strews everyone\u2019s gross trash hither and fro. This book is gross for no other than to ick out the reader. This is fine if the book is fun but it's not. It's boring and the characters unsympathetic. So what did I learn? Rant, our dashing lead whom all the woman later adore, spends his toddlerhood picking his nose when he\u2019s supposed to be napping, rolling it into black balls of goo and sticking it on the wall above his head. Did I really need to know that? He \"inoculates\" himself with venom from various critters and rabid animals at an early age. When he reaches his teens he can not only sniff out the owner of a tampon but he gets a close looksee at most of the female genitalia in town and can name the previous owner of every bloody tampon he finds littering his yard simply by its \u201cshape\u201d. There are some things we never need to know about a person. Seriously. The book then rambles about with more people adding their two cents about mostly boring bits of Rant/Buster's life as he purposely infects himself with rabies and then spreads the infection all about. And then time travel enters the picture and my brain explodes. I like weird books but they have to be interesting. This one just wasn't. ...more What the hell? Let me first say I love Chuck P. I love his usually disturbing stories and weird characters. I don't mind the fact that he seems a little crazy, and I don't mind all of the sex he writes about. I also don't mind the gory/gross factor. I like him! This book was just bad in my opinion. Maybe if I knew it had an amazing ending I could have pushed through the last half, but after the first half of this book I realized I didn't care at all about Buster, or his story. So I stopped reading What the hell? Let me first say I love Chuck P. I love his usually disturbing stories and weird characters. I don't mind the fact that he seems a little crazy, and I don't mind all of the sex he writes about. I also don't mind the gory/gross factor. I like him! This book was just bad in my opinion. Maybe if I knew it had an amazing ending I could have pushed through the last half, but after the first half of this book I realized I didn't care at all about Buster, or his story. So I stopped reading. This book seemed to be over the top in grossness which seemed like he was relying on pure shock value. I also didn't much enjoy the writing in oral history fashion, but he made it clear this is how it was going to be since page one so that's my own fault. I'm giving this two stars instead of one, because I so always enjoy his humor, and it's present in this book again. The writing is still good, I just found the story lacking. I don't think I would recommend this book to anyone. I want to read another Chuck P. book right away, so that this isn't the last experience in my mind...Not sure which one to move onto next, though. ...more A Brief Caveat It feels somewhat strange and almost in bad taste to be reviewing a Chuck Palahnuik book because this just happened. (If you don\u2019t want to search through the link: Paquita (one of the coolest peeps on Goodreads) made mention of the fact that Chuck P. had recommended the book she had just read and if she had known that, then she probably wouldn\u2019t have read the book because she doesn\u2019t care much for the stylings of Mr. Palahniuk. Enter a crazed, rabid fan of Chuck P. who starts criti A Brief Caveat It feels somewhat strange and almost in bad taste to be reviewing a Chuck Palahnuik book because this just happened. (If you don\u2019t want to search through the link: Paquita (one of the coolest peeps on Goodreads) made mention of the fact that Chuck P. had recommended the book she had just read and if she had known that, then she probably wouldn\u2019t have read the book because she doesn\u2019t care much for the stylings of Mr. Palahniuk. Enter a crazed, rabid fan of Chuck P. who starts criticizing Paquita\u2019s tastes. A bit of witty banter ensues which leads to the most insane, misogynistic troll tirade I\u2019ve ever seen. That crazed fan was promptly shouted down by a loyal troll-fighting clan of goodreaders but then several sock-puppets joined in on the bashing). I\u2019d like to leave all that emotional baggage at the door and continue this review as if none of this happened and attempt to address the book and its author on their own terms. Introductionary Quote, S.penkevich Style, to Set the Mood/Thematic Weight \u201cMe and Death, separated at birth\u201d Preconceptions I\u2019m drawing from an extremely small sample-size, but there seems to be a positive correlation between my fellow literature lovers and those who dislike the cut of Palahniuk\u2019s jib. The opposite seems to be true as well: I know several people who fashion themselves as \u201ccasual readers\u201d but still \u201clove to read <---A>Chuck Palahniuk</---A>; haven\u2019t you read Fight Club ? It\u2019s the greatest thing ever, dude!\u201d It seems natural for a person such as myself then to associate the two together and draw a larger conclusion, given the data presented, that Chuck P., while very well being a good writer for the plebeians, may not be the writer that I could ever get into, only one about whom I could have a full-arms-extended appreciation and to which I could say \u201cwell, I certainly see the appeal, but it\u2019s not my cup of tea\u201d. Zounds! Induction be damned, because I\u2019m here to say that I straight-up loved this book. Sure, it\u2019s not perfect. Sure, he is \u201cpulp\u201d in a certain sense. Sure, he wears his Vonnegut/Pynchon inspiration on his sleeve but the guy still knows a thing or two about writing that I think we all can appreciate, hold hands and sing kumbaya to. Plot Summary This book centers around the enigmatic figure of Buster \u201cRant\u201d Casey, a character that is involved in a variety of juvenile activities as a child and eventually joins a group of people called \u201cnighttimers\u201d that participate in party crashing (not what you\u2019re thinking here. The act of \u201cparty crashing\u201d involves tagging a target car and allowing everyone else to attack said targeted car in an attempt to destroy it/the people inside). Writing Style The book is told in \u201coral biography\u201d format, which means that the book is a series of interviews with all the people in Rant\u2019s life, as they talk about all of his misadventures and shenanigans. The only person who doesn\u2019t get a voice is Rant himself (view spoiler) [and Rant\u2019s father, because it is Rant (hide spoiler) ] . For anyone who\u2019s read The Savage Detectives this should probably sound familiar. In fact, it was very difficult at first to not think of Se\u00f1or Bela\u00f1o during this whole book and compare and contrast their differences. While SD is a sprawling masterpiece, filled with tons of side stories and with every last conceivable minutiae about its characters detailed in long paragraph chunks, Rant is a much more focused piece of writing. The chapters are much shorter. The characters are consistent and there are very few un-introduced characters through the middle and end. A Brief Digression about Bola\u00f1o At first, I longer for Bola\u00f1o\u2019s sprawling, all-encompassing style. SD just covers so much ground. As I wrote about in my review , he is able to dissect an entire cultural/literary movement through the eyes of everyone that came into contact with his two main characters. You got a sense for an entire era of intellectuals and bourgeoning writers and most importantly, each character that is interviewed gets a long time to talk. A lot of the character\u2019s monologues had short story length. Thus, the novel took on that \u201cwhole-composed-of-simultaneously-operating-parts\u201d that such short-story driven novels function as. Name any book from my top ten favorite books and it\u2019s bound to be of this type of novel. Writing Style (cont.) What I came to realize though, was that not every book ought to be of this maximalist, sprawling style in order to appeal to me. I can also love a book that strips away everything it deems unnecessary and stick to just the story at hand. Now, don\u2019t get me wrong; I\u2019ve been a basher of the minimalist style for as long as I\u2019ve been forced to read Hemingway. So, I think there has to be a reason why I can enjoy a book that limits itself to just a small slice of its world and not the entire pie. It was fun to spend some time in a book that is focused and controlled and never rambled on for too long and each chapter title was explicitly clear as to the content therein. Why I Was Able to Like This Book Despite it Being Minimalist Plebeian Garbage This is difficult to address head-on, so it might take a bit of set-up to get there. A Bit of Set-Up in Order to Explain Why I Was Able to Like This Book Despite it Being Minimalist Plebeian Garbage Some criticism I\u2019ve gathered from what I\u2019ve heard of Palahniuk is that his books are all the same and that he reuses the same trope in all his books: distention from society\u2019s norms with a main character that is a mysterious, sexy figure that just doesn\u2019t care about all us moralizing, materialistic \u201csheep\u201d of society. This is more or less a strawman of his work. But it\u2019s done to make to illustrate a point. I think there is some substance to this criticism because in many ways, that is what a lot of his books are about. And it\u2019s easy to associate all the morally heinous things in Palahniuk\u2019s books with the guy himself and write him off as a sensationalist writer who writes books that are devoid of anything but nihilism, and not even sexy, intellectual nihilism a la Nietzsche, but hip nihilism a la Bret Easton Ellis or any other author that DFW would criticize. And to this I would probably agree. And I would probably cede a lot of ground about Palahniuk at this level, that he often does play up this anti-society, moral-less shtick because it\u2019s cool and it sells (ironically). But I think that for a person like me, I can still enjoy something purely for its fun and entertainment, even if for many other concerns it is not successful. Why I Was Able to Like This Book Despite it Being Minimalist Plebeian Garbage (cont.) Because the experience of a book is almost completely contingent on the expectations you bring to it and the frame by which you judge it. And for many other books, I do bring a high expectation to the table, see all the \u201chigh-brow\u201d literature that primes me for having such expectations. But there comes a point when such judgement seems unnecessary. I think there is an impulse to draw large conclusions about all the disparate parts of a book because I\u2019m used to that type of reading so often. But if you really asked Palahniuk, I\u2019m sure his priorities are to telling a story, just that. He isn\u2019t really interested in making any point at all (even if that point is that there is no point). And with many such works that don\u2019t really even get to that place that so many authors aspire (that mysterious realm of thematic weight and important, earth shattering lessons about human experience) I can\u2019t really bring the same criticism that I normally would to other books. In short, this book was just a lot of fun and it had enough clever things in it to keep me entertained and my brain distracted enough that it allowed me to revel in the crass, irreverent humor and fun. This is probably not doing much to convince anyone who already hates Chuck P. but I guess that\u2019s not really my intention here because I would totally understand anyone not enjoying it. Spoiler Section Where I Talk About One of Those \u201cClever Things\u201d (view spoiler) [I found all the self-referential jabs to be great. The car salesmen was cool, Palahniuk\u2019s reminder that all of the oral retellings (and then of course the book by extension, then of course all writing by extension) are rhetorical constructions that are meant to lead you in believing certain things determined by each author\u2019s own personal bias and intention. That coupled with several other plays on the \u201creality\u201d of the text kept me distracted enough to allow the entertainment to stream in mostly un-judged and un-analyzed to death. P. added in several real flesh and blood people into his story, as doctors, anthropologists, etc. to help explain what was going on and used fact-dump paragraphs to explain how some of the bizarre events could actually be possible. And then there was the Palahniuk trademark plot-twist gimmick at the end which was only made bearable by the fact that it also contributed to this \u201cmessing\u201d with the \u201creality\u201d of the story/blurring the line between fact and fiction. In that, because of the rules of time travel (let\u2019s not get into it) it is possible that none of the events in the book could have \u201chappened\u201d if Rant was not successful in impregnating his mother. . . or something. Anyway, the take-home message is that all these things could have \u201chappened\u201d in real life, but never \u201chappened\u201d because time travel is screwy and makes my head hurt. (hide spoiler) ] Where I get to show off my music tastes and you get to act impressed in the comments So Greg said that this song reminded him of this book. While I see where he is coming from, given the context in his review, I couldn\u2019t stop thinking of this song the entire time. The song sounds like a Palahniuk book waiting to be written. Some will die in hot pursuit and fiery auto crashes, Some will die in hot pursuit while sifting through my ashes, Some will fall in love with life and drink it from a fountain That is pouring like an avalanche coming down the mountain Here\u2019s another song that I like that is completely unrelated to this review: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D39OFZ... ...more Chuck Palahniuk is the literary equivalent of punk rock. In a book that pulls on varied and important themes, Rant: An Oral History of <---C>Buster Casey</---C> manages to feature an exceptionally peculiar storyline that never stops at its primary goal: being a hell of a good time. This is a book that deals with important topics, like religion and the meaning of life, but doesn't keep itself neatly organized and stacked with pristine white pages. Instead, Rant is a beautiful book with pages askew that just Chuck Palahniuk is the literary equivalent of punk rock. In a book that pulls on varied and important themes, Rant: An Oral History of Buster Casey manages to feature an exceptionally peculiar storyline that never stops at its primary goal: being a hell of a good time. This is a book that deals with important topics, like religion and the meaning of life, but doesn't keep itself neatly organized and stacked with pristine white pages. Instead, Rant is a beautiful book with pages askew that just happens to be covered in the dirt and slime of real life. Pulling on the underused oral biography format, Palahniuk is able to fully flesh out a huge cast of characters and an immense story in a relatively quick read. Essentially, this is a novel with the long expositional passages replaced with non-stop dialogue. It is initially jarring, but this novel pulls from a history of stories being told conversationally. The format of oral history reinforces the themes of the novel: the development of fame and legend through, essentially, word of mouth, while also being a stylistic and enjoyable experience. The plot? Honestly, I don't even want to talk too much about what happens in Rant. There is a lot of joy in not knowing what you are in for. The novel is roughly divided into three acts, and each one plays on a different part of our main character's (Buster \"Rant\" Casey) life. This novel never stays stagnant, and moves with the speed of a Party Crashing vehicle on a collision course. All the same, on this second read, it had me flipping back to the start to pick up the trail of candy crumbs (pill capsules?) Palahniuk has deftly interwoven for a stellar finish. This novel is sci-fi, in that it is set in the future, but doesn't use its genre moorings as a crutch. \"Rant\" is a character study through and through. Oh, and its weird. As in, some of the weirdest stuff you may have ever read in a novel. Bottom line, you aren't going to read many books as unique or as much fun as Rant. There's other stuff too, but don't read up about it, go in clean. You'll come out dirty, but you'll have been highly entertained in the process. ...more This is the story of a small town hell raiser named Buster \u2019Rant\u2019 Casey who did some slightly unusual things when he was growing up like collecting bucketfuls of his classmate\u2019s teeth. Young Rant also angers more animals than Steve Irwin so that they\u2019ll bite him and infect him with rabies which he deliberately spreads to his class mates. After he grows up and moves to the city, Rant joins a disenfranchised part of society forced by law to stay in their homes during the day and who get their kick This is the story of a small town hell raiser named Buster \u2019Rant\u2019 Casey who did some slightly unusual things when he was growing up like collecting bucketfuls of his classmate\u2019s teeth. Young Rant also angers more animals than Steve Irwin so that they\u2019ll bite him and infect him with rabies which he deliberately spreads to his class mates. After he grows up and moves to the city, Rant joins a disenfranchised part of society forced by law to stay in their homes during the day and who get their kicks by crashing cars into each other. After his spectacular fiery death, the government labels him a bio-terrorist who unleashed a deadly outbreak of rabies while others claim that Rant may have had a larger destiny than anyone can imagine. And that\u2019s not even the weirdest or most twisted part of the story\u2026 This is my second favorite Chuck Palahniuk novel after Fight Club . Rant\u2019s story is told as an oral history by a variety of friends and enemies. The mishmash of weird anecdotes about a guy who seems to be completely fucked in the head eventually coalesce into a wild narrative that almost makes an audible click as the story starts locking together. Like all of Chuck P.\u2019s books, it\u2019s disturbing and gory and gross and funny and definitely not for the faint of heart or easily offended. As soon as I finished it the first time a few years ago, I knew I\u2019d come back to it again because this is one of those story where knowing the ending gives you a whole different spin on things your second time through. ...more First off, a disclaimer. I love Chuck P. like a brother. If the man was on dialysis I'd give him a kidney even if I only had one good one left and consider it payback for all the stories of his that I've enjoyed since discovering his work. The lowdown: Rant tells the story of Rant Casey - a small town kid that turns his little town on it's ear before moving to the city to continue his work. The book is comprised of accounts from people that knew Rant with only second hand accounts of his words a First off, a disclaimer. I love Chuck P. like a brother. If the man was on dialysis I'd give him a kidney even if I only had one good one left and consider it payback for all the stories of his that I've enjoyed since discovering his work. The lowdown: Rant tells the story of Rant Casey - a small town kid that turns his little town on it's ear before moving to the city to continue his work. The book is comprised of accounts from people that knew Rant with only second hand accounts of his words and deeds and no perspective from our hero. In that way, it's almost Biblical. Although it is science fiction and a pretty far departure on the whole from Chuck Palahniuk's previous books, it's not as far off from what I expect out of him as Diary. But Palahniuk's voice and eye are still there and elements of the book like character relationships and atmosphere are reminiscent of earlier books like Choke. From the beginning, it's not clear where or when the setting is. The place seemed to me to be a small desert town. Time seemed to be anytime in the past century. It's a brilliant device that Palahniuk never wavers from in the first half of the book. It makes the reading a bit unsettling. The significance of that displacement just builds throughout the book. The characterization in this book is pretty amazing. A strong and compelling vision of Rant is built as a charismatic, smart, wild man, but nobody describes him as such throughout the book. Nobody says, \"Rant was crazy\" or sexy or maddening or 6'2\" with brown hair and hazel eyes, but as the characters tell of their relationships with Rant the picture of him starts to come into focus. The very memorable and alluring characters that populate the story by contributing to the oral history are intriguing and become fully fleshed out as the story progresses as well. I really don't want to give it away, so if you haven't read the book, don't read the next line, but... the most interesting thing about this book to me was the future Palahnik creates out of what seems to be the past time. It's very real and although it's not clear if it's 20 years down the road or 200, it's very believable which makes the book frightening to contemplate at times. I very much loved how the past of Rant's childhood could have been the 1930s or the 1990s or any time until Bodie talks about plugging in. The sci-fi aspect of Rant really set the wheels of the story into motion and made it so much more interesting than if Rant had been stuck in Middleton trading gold for teeth the entire book. ...more \u201cHistory is nothing except monsters or victims. Or witnesses.\u201d \u2015 Chuck Palahniuk, Rant HE was close. He was so damn close. He just didn't close it at the end. It was a poem that ended in a whimper. The mixture was nearly perfect, just not flammable. But don't say Chuck didn't try. I imagine Palahniuk had Ballard's Crash and Benford's Timescape , several Oral Histories, and perhaps even Hofstadter's G\u00f6del, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid sitting on his shelf as he wrote this. Reading Rant was \u201cHistory is nothing except monsters or victims. Or witnesses.\u201d \u2015 Chuck Palahniuk, Rant HE was close. He was so damn close. He just didn't close it at the end. It was a poem that ended in a whimper. The mixture was nearly perfect, just not flammable. But don't say Chuck didn't try. I imagine Palahniuk had Ballard's Crash and Benford's Timescape , several Oral Histories, and perhaps even Hofstadter's G\u00f6del, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid sitting on his shelf as he wrote this. Reading Rant was like watching a blind guy juggle a bunch of balls, some are on fire, and some you realize are actually burning cats. Palahniuk exists on an edge of grotesque, absurdity and social criticism that sometimes makes you lose sight of the shore. You forget what the normal is. You forget the boundaries. You are caught between a weird night and equally bizarre day. You aren't sure what to do so you just keep digging/reading. Five major takeaways from this novel (which I might one day delve into deeper if I ever find myself with too much Liminal time or space in-between): 1. Rabies & Bites 2. Hyperosmia/Hypergeusia 3. Time Travel + Incest 4. Party Crashing + Night & Day 5. Oral History/Myth-making/Christianity Anyway, I enjoyed the novel. It flew. But it just ended meh. No bang. No cliff. Just a strange, absurd, grotesque, incestuous loop. ...more (Full review can be found at the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com].) So before anything else, a horrible confession: that this is the first novel by Chuck Palahniuk I've ever actually read from cover to cover. Yeah, I know, shame on me! And the reason this is such a big deal, of course, is that I'm an obsessive fan of the movie version of Fight Club , adapted from another of Palahniuk's novels, a film I have officially now seen one zillion freaking times . And why do I (Full review can be found at the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com].) So before anything else, a horrible confession: that this is the first novel by Chuck Palahniuk I've ever actually read from cover to cover. Yeah, I know, shame on me! And the reason this is such a big deal, of course, is that I'm an obsessive fan of the movie version of Fight Club , adapted from another of Palahniuk's novels, a film I have officially now seen one zillion freaking times . And why do I like that movie so much? Here's why I like that movie so much: --Because it takes a profoundly original and compelling idea and makes you think it's going to be the theme of the entire project, just to later prove that it was actually a ruse to hide an even more profoundly original and compelling idea as its real theme. --Because it unmasks the simmering hatred of the modern world so many young intellectuals have these days, this incessant desire to do something, anything , to break out of the usual corporate-manufactured, safely lobotomized, \"synergetic cultural experience.\" --And because the story pulls off such heady things through a slim, minimalist personal style, which much like Vonnegut attempts to use the least words possible to convey the greatest amount of information possible. And thus do we come to Palahniuk's latest novel, Rant: An Oral Biography of Buster Casey , which just randomly happens to be my first book of his simply because of opening CCLaP this particular year. And you know what? It too manages to pull off all the things just mentioned, and in fact does it even better; that this book even manages to head into legitimate science-fiction territory at points, even while being a grounded examination of the human condition at the same time. It's dense for sure, with a plot that's impossible to keep up with at times; but if such things, for example, made you love Donnie Darko instead of detest it, then you're seriously going to want to run out and pick up a copy of Rant as soon as you possibly can. In fact... ...more It's not everyday you read a book about rabies, the origins of God, time travel, and bumper cars. Seeing that this is a Chuck Palahniuk book, I shouldn't be surprised that this novel hops barriers and barrels through genres without a single fuck given for your comfort or confusion level. Buster \"Rant\" Casey can tell you what you had for breakfast three days ago, what kind of flowers you have waiting in a vase back at home, and whether your shower head is steel or bronze simply by eating your pus It's not everyday you read a book about rabies, the origins of God, time travel, and bumper cars. Seeing that this is a Chuck Palahniuk book, I shouldn't be surprised that this novel hops barriers and barrels through genres without a single fuck given for your comfort or confusion level. Buster \"Rant\" Casey can tell you what you had for breakfast three days ago, what kind of flowers you have waiting in a vase back at home, and whether your shower head is steel or bronze simply by eating your pussy. That's talent folks. Of course, all this is explained, but for a while all you can do is laugh. Rant: An Oral Biography of Buster Casey is so fucking absurd that you will begin to think you are reading bizarro fiction. And then, about 2/3 of the way through, everything starts making a shade of lunatic sense. Before it's all over everything is explained and you're left wondering how in the Greater Balls of Christ Palahniuk managed to juggle all these different voices and plot threads into one cogent narrative. Invisible Monsters is still my favorite of his works, but this is the new runner up. Sorry Choke , but this book is smarter than you. Don't feel bad. You're still good, but not as good as Rant Funny side note: I didn't finish this the first time I read it because it seemed like a book full of character interviews and I fucking hate that shit. This time I powered through. Damn glad I did. All the fucking stars! In summation: You'll need your thinking caps if you're going to appreciate this one. The book is written the way it is for a reason. Every character is important, and all thread tie together by the end. A lot of people will hate this book. I get that. But it does not deserve their hatred. Final Judgment: Fight Club references are rad. ...more When I hear this song ( http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uUZf24... ) one of the things I think of is Chuck Palahniuk. I lied. I actually never heard this song until about four minutes before typing the previous sentence. For the sake of accuracy, when I heard the Elf Power cover of the song, which until about five minutes ago I didn't even realize was a cover, but which I should have assumed since the whole album it is one is made up of cover songs. I wanted to share the Elf Power version, but this When I hear this song ( http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uUZf24... ) one of the things I think of is Chuck Palahniuk. I lied. I actually never heard this song until about four minutes before typing the previous sentence. For the sake of accuracy, when I heard the Elf Power cover of the song, which until about five minutes ago I didn't even realize was a cover, but which I should have assumed since the whole album it is one is made up of cover songs. I wanted to share the Elf Power version, but this this particular version by The Frogs (who did the song originally) is really fucking good. Like Jeff Buckley \"Hallelujah\" or \"I Know it's Over\" good, but different because those are good covers and this is the original, which I didn't know was the original until just now. There is another version that is more 'rocking' and produced by Corgan (billy?) and it's not really that good, it's ok, but the Elf Power version is better than the Corgan produced EP version. While I was going to the bathroom prior to looking for the above mentioned song I was thinking I should write a review for this book (actually I thought that while walking to the bathroom, while actually going to the bathroom I thought what follows) and that it's been almost eleven years to the day (ten years and 11 months to be more exact, it's a commitment to extreme honesty in the minutiae that got me to be the third most popular reviewer on goodreads.com, people love the details (or just don't really love anything about my reviews but they are appealing enough to enough people and I write enough of them that viola! I come off looking better in the numbers than I really am, but seriously isn't my neurotic attempts at truthfully recording all the details of my review writing process more interesting than reading another long winded blah blah blah fest about chess? (like my recent blah blah blah ramblings about fighting are much of an improvement), anyway back to the review where I just gave an amount of time, and I'm sure you are waiting anxiously to find out what it's been eleven years (or ten years and 11 months) since....) since I read a Chuck Palahniuk book that I could say I really enjoyed. Did you actually click the link above to listen to the song? If you didn't go click it now. This is the link: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uUZf24... , there is no excuse not to do it, it's a great fucking song and if you're deaf than guess what you don't get to hear a great fucking song, but most likely this isn't the first great fucking song you didn't get to hear in your life, but since I'm a sensitive person I'll let you know that you can read the lyrics here: http://www.lyricsmania.com/weird_on_t... . If you are recently deaf then you can imagine the words with just a couple of guitar chords being strummed behind them. If you've been deaf your whole life, well I don't know what to say. Sorry? (And can you fucking believe that the band that did that song also did this one? http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=63FlHK... (this song you should listen to, too. It's a funny and gay song in that very Big Black-esque Chicago sludge 90's style). I hope you have taken my advice and listened to the first song I asked you to listen to while reading this review. It will save me from having to make too many more asides, and believe me I'll know if you are cheating and I will hold up the review again until I think everyone is doing what is expected of them. Anyway, back to the review, but wait, remember the last time I wrote a review for a Chuck Palahniuk book and I got myself and a bunch of other people all blocked by that pretentious weiny with the stupid 90's hair? That was fun. Yes? The book wasn't any good, but having a girl fight the battle for that twit and then have him block everyone that was fun. Ah, the good times of book reviewing social networking websites. I just thought that this song by Elf Power reminds me him, http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YZ0jWT... . Oh, you can read that review here: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... And, no I'm not trying to get more votes. Before Rant the last book by Chuck Palahniuk I enjoyed was Survivor . I don't think this one is as good as Survivor , but I'm an older if not more mature reader now than I was then. But I was also more pretentious then, sort of more like that guy from the other review, but I don't think I was ever a walking backside orifice like I imagine him to be in real life. I hope that you have actually gone and listened to those songs by now. I'm working on the honor system for a bit here. At one point in Rant I groaned to myself because I was afraid that Chuck Palahniuk was becoming too much like Chuck Palahniuk, like a caricature of himself, sort of like what he was throughout most of Tell-All and in the majority of those other books of his that weren't Fight Club or Survivor , but which actually could have been Fight Club or Survivor but to me at least, his schtick wasn't feeling like a schtick yet. When I first had this thought while reading Rant this song: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9acFE7... , started playing in my head. You don't need to listen to this song if you don't want, it's only a Mudhoney song, and if you've heard one Mudhoney song you've sort of heard them all. Sort of the way I've felt about Chuck P for most of his middle to recent novels. But not this book. I liked this one. There was some kind of humanity to this one even in the disgustingness of disease and a town where used condoms and tampons dangle from trees and people drive around in wedding dresses looking to get into car accidents there was something that felt real and not just weird for weirds sake in this strange and increasingly convoluted novel. Yeah! So that last paragraph and a sentence or two in maybe three of the paragraphs prior to that one is my review. I hope you enjoyed it. P.S. I just noticed that I started this book exactly one year after I finished my last Chuck Palahniuk review. I didn't do that on purpose, at all! Honestly! Isn't that fucking weird? Like Lincoln had a secretary named Kennedy and Kennedy had a secretary named Lincoln weird? ...more MY REVIEW FROM AMAZON: Look, if you are one of those people who consider themselves \"fans\" of an author's work so long as it is constantly the same, then forget all about this one. Don't read it expecting Fight Club. In fact, don't read any book by Palahniuk expecting Fight Club but Fight Club. He is a talented writer, with more to offer than the same book reprinted fifty-thousand times. Most of the reviews so far written for this book seem to have been written by the above-mentioned sort of fan MY REVIEW FROM AMAZON: Look, if you are one of those people who consider themselves \"fans\" of an author's work so long as it is constantly the same, then forget all about this one. Don't read it expecting Fight Club. In fact, don't read any book by Palahniuk expecting Fight Club but Fight Club. He is a talented writer, with more to offer than the same book reprinted fifty-thousand times. Most of the reviews so far written for this book seem to have been written by the above-mentioned sort of fan. If these same people had opened their minds a bit, they might have noticed that \"RANT\" is one of Palahniuk's best books. The style is interesting--it is written in the \"Oral Biography\" tradition, which if you are unfamiliar with, has been done by many authors and is incredibly hard to do--and the story itself is complex and well done. Chuck does a great job of fleshing out the characters and giving them unique voices that seem authentic and remain consistent throughout the book. Anyone paying attention should have no trouble realizing who is who without having to reference the names over and over again. Sure, some of the stuff in the book is a little gross, but is that really a reason to give it a bad review? If you don't like gross stuff in your fiction, don't read ANYTHING by this author. But going on Amazon and saying a book sucks because it grossed you out is about as smart as saying television sucks because it offends you. You don't have to read this book, or watch television. Nobody will twist your arm. That said, I reccomend this book to anyone who likes to see a great author stretching his arms and experimenting a bit. The end result is definietely worth the price. ...more Wow. How can I possibly describe this book? Mediocre? Unfocused? Half-assed? I am a big fan of Palahniuk. I love Fight Club, Invisible Monsters, Survivor, Choke, Diary, and Lullaby. I even like Haunted a bit. I think he is great at picking some aspect of American Culture and flipping it over so it's soft white underbelly is clearly visible. Unfortunately, with Haunted, he appears to have developed a taste for the 'big gross-out.' Rant continues that trend. And what is worse is that the book is wri Wow. How can I possibly describe this book? Mediocre? Unfocused? Half-assed? I am a big fan of Palahniuk. I love Fight Club, Invisible Monsters, Survivor, Choke, Diary, and Lullaby. I even like Haunted a bit. I think he is great at picking some aspect of American Culture and flipping it over so it's soft white underbelly is clearly visible. Unfortunately, with Haunted, he appears to have developed a taste for the 'big gross-out.' Rant continues that trend. And what is worse is that the book is written in an oral history fashion that at it's best is merely distracting. At it's worst, it's damn confusing. I am still not exactly sure what the message of this book was supposed to be. It starts by spouting all the redneck/trailer trash stereotypes that the media is currently so fond of. I was hoping he was going to shine his penetrating insight on that and finally explain the fascination. No such luck. The second section of the book is a not-so-subtle jab at the current administration and the USAPatriot Act and the ever-exciting topic of epedimiology. This section flows better and is actually entertaining. The third section of the book is a metaphysical exploration of the subject of time travel that, while interesting, left me wondering WTF it had to do with the rest of the book? I've only read one one other book written in this style: 'Please Kill Me,' a history of the New York Punk scene in the mid-70s. It was a fascinating read. 'Rant' was not. I honestly can't recommend this book to anyone except die-hard Chuck Palahniuk fans. And to them I only recommend it in the hopes that someone who gets it can explain it to me. ...more Yeah, I just read a Chuck Palahniuk book; I feel like I\u2019m back in high school and should begin loudly listening to Garbage CDs and writing \u201cI <3 Spike\u201d all over my notebook any second now. In fairness, Palahniuk does finally seem to be breaking out of his mold at least a little; I skipped reading Haunted because I wasn\u2019t in the mood to be squicked, but what had been irritating me about all his previous books was that they all seemed the same . They all utilized a near-identical style of narra Yeah, I just read a Chuck Palahniuk book; I feel like I\u2019m back in high school and should begin loudly listening to Garbage CDs and writing \u201cI <3 Spike\u201d all over my notebook any second now. In fairness, Palahniuk does finally seem to be breaking out of his mold at least a little; I skipped reading Haunted because I wasn\u2019t in the mood to be squicked, but what had been irritating me about all his previous books was that they all seemed the same . They all utilized a near-identical style of narration, just with different \u201cchoruses\u201d thrown in. And I say this as someone who was totally obsessed with Fight Club (though more the film than the book) and still gets gleeful amusement out of her memories of Invisible Monsters . (Which was also the book that introduced me to the concept of \u201cfelching\u201d! Chuck, you and Lauren Groff need to have a word.) Rant , presented in the style of an oral history, is not only quite different in its telling from Palahniuk\u2019s previous books, it\u2019s different from anything I\u2019ve read in a long while. The myriad POVs are cool in that I always like to see characters through a variety of different perspectives. However, the character of Buster Casey, a.k.a. Rant, remains frustratingly obtuse. Palahniuk spends quite some time on his childhood, in which we are treated to lengthy descriptions of menstrual blood stains (mental category: did not need), and strangely less on his adulthood, though we do get lengthy descriptions of his ability to tell what his girlfriend last ate by licking her pussy (mental category: REALLY DID NOT NEED). Palahniuk certainly never runs out of new ways to shock and horrify. Unfortunately, that kind of thing was rather more tantalizing to me when I was in high school. However, like I said, I really did feel like Palahniuk was stretching himself a bit here; he\u2019s got a sort of interesting time travel plot going on, and I actually really liked the characters of Shot and Echo, and the idea of the dystopian Daytimer/Nighttimer future society. So I guess where I think this book really suffers is in the simple fact that there\u2019s just too much going on. I mean, just on the most basic level there\u2019s: 1) Rant\u2019s fucked up childhood, 2) rabies outbreak, 3) party crashing, 4) future dystopia, and 5) time travel\u2014and these never stop being rather disparate things. Worse, as I mentioned before, Rant remains a total cypher. I think this book would have worked a thousand times better if he\u2019d felt like a real, vibrant anti-hero. Instead, we get pages and pages of Rant the cunning linguist. (Seriously, WTF? Was that supposed to be sexy? Echo seemed to think it was sexy, and otherwise, she seemed almost sensible . I have some weird kinks myself, but OMG NO.) I loved the idea Palahniuk almost seemed to be reaching for toward the end, about the ways Echo and Shot and the other party crashers would remake the world, but it\u2019s surrounded by so much muddle . Ultimately, this felt like the first draft of what could have been a legitimately incredible novel; as-is, it\u2019s just kind of\u2026confusing. ...more What an amazing Clusterfuck. 3.5 Is he the protagonist, or the antagonist? Good question about our Mr. Buster Casey, also known as 'Rant' which is also a pretty good description of this story. I mean, this thing is all over the place. To figure it out you might have to partake in some time traveling and still you'd be left with filtering facts from rabid infested party crashers with gold coins in their pockets and Christmas trees tied to the roofs of their cars. Still confused? You should be. After all, this is classic Palah 3.5 Is he the protagonist, or the antagonist? Good question about our Mr. Buster Casey, also known as 'Rant' which is also a pretty good description of this story. I mean, this thing is all over the place. To figure it out you might have to partake in some time traveling and still you'd be left with filtering facts from rabid infested party crashers with gold coins in their pockets and Christmas trees tied to the roofs of their cars. Still confused? You should be. After all, this is classic Palahniuk and with him, confusion can be a very entertaining experience. ...more wow .. and can't really even begin to comment on this . Complete mindblower with a really sadistic and twisted view of our society ! Loved it ! Dubita e credi a tutto, quando Palahniuk tesse la sua tela!! Dopo aver letto meno di cento pagine, ho sognato di un serial killer morboso di et\u00e0 indefinita tra gli otto e dieci anni che faceva fuori nove persone molto alla Palahniuk. S\u00ec, Palahniuk fa quest'effetto. Il libro ha un inizio (quasi) normale e sensato, ma il finale.. Beh, ma che ve lo dico a fare?! La faccenda diventa sempre pi\u00f9 improbabile, pi\u00f9 fumosa e strana, ma tu sei l\u00ec che continui a chiederti quanto di tutto ci\u00f2 possa essere realm Dubita e credi a tutto, quando Palahniuk tesse la sua tela!! Dopo aver letto meno di cento pagine, ho sognato di un serial killer morboso di et\u00e0 indefinita tra gli otto e dieci anni che faceva fuori nove persone molto alla Palahniuk. S\u00ec, Palahniuk fa quest'effetto. Il libro ha un inizio (quasi) normale e sensato, ma il finale.. Beh, ma che ve lo dico a fare?! La faccenda diventa sempre pi\u00f9 improbabile, pi\u00f9 fumosa e strana, ma tu sei l\u00ec che continui a chiederti quanto di tutto ci\u00f2 possa essere realmente successo e cosa no. Arrivi a dubitare della tua stessa vita, un altro po'. Sicuramente, se questa stessa idea fosse stata scritta da un altro (anche un pezzo grosso del mondo della letteratura), non sarebbe riuscita ad avvincermi tanto, a farmi amare ogni singolo, strampalato personaggio.. In primis Buster \"Rant\" Casey (of course): \u00e8 un personaggio sordido, disgustoso, sporco, matto da legare, inquietante e via dicendo.. Ma probabilmente me lo sarei sposato.. Ha in s\u00e8 un fascino perverso incredibile, e dietro lo strato di marciume, c'\u00e8 un lato carino (La dedica a Echo in diretta radio \u00e8 dolcissima!). Io sono andata sul serio a controllare su internet se tale individuo fosse esistito.. Ecco che Palahniuk colpisce ancora!!! La gente rivendica i propri diritti sulle persone a cui vuole bene dandogli un nome diverso. Etichettandole come fosse roba loro. Un po' come quando abbandoni un cane. La cosa peggiore che un uomo pu\u00f2 fare \u00e8 abbandonarsi a se stesso. Rant aveva capito che la realt\u00e0 uno poteva costruirsela. Se abbastanza gente ci crede, una bugia non \u00e8 pi\u00f9 una bugia. Ma Echo \u00e8 una sparaballe. Chiedile come si guadagna da vivere. Se non ti risponde \"prostituendomi\", sta mentendo. La pi\u00f9 grande forma di consenso che la societ\u00e0 moderna conosce \u00e8 il sistema del traffico. Un flusso di perfetti estranei che interagisce, condividendo uno stesso percorso, perlopi\u00f9 senza incidenti. E' sufficiente il dissenso di un solo conducente perch\u00e9 si crei l'anarchia. Tina incrocia le braccia, si appoggia su un fianco, e grida: \"La tua fidanzata \u00e8 una puttana!\" E Rant dice: \"E' vero?\". Echo ruota la testa prima da una parte e poi dall'altra, facendosi scrocchiare il collo, poi dice: \"E' vero cosa?\". Rant dice: \"Quello che ha detto lei\". Dice: \"E' vero che sei la mia fidanzata?\". \"... E se la realt\u00e0 non fosse altro che una malattia?\". Ti sei mai trovato intrappolato in un mondo dove sei l'incubo peggiore di tutti quelli che ci vivono? L'argomento principale che viene sollevato contro la possibilit\u00e0 del viaggio temporale \u00e8 quello che i teorici definiscono \"paradosso del nonno\", vale a dire l'idea che se una persona potesse tornare indietro nel tempo potrebbe uccidere uno dei suoi antenati, eliminando quindi la sua possibilit\u00e0 di nascere e di tornare nel passato a commettere l'omicidio. In un mondo dove miliardi di persone credono che il loro dio abbia concepito un figlio mortale con una vergine umana, \u00e8 incredibile quanta poca immaginazione dimostri la maggior parte della gente. ...more Rant kicked so much ass. Part of the joy is the idea of a car...with a flaming Christmas tree on top...flying through the air into a body of water...to the, you know, strains of Philip Glass' Violin Concerto II. Part of the joy comes from the fact this is the first third of a trilogy, apparently. Part of the joy is that the book is entirely a greatest-hits package of Chuck's strengths...remixed in the \"oral biography\" form. Like, like if Guns n' Roses wrote ten variations on \"Sweet Child o' Mine\" Rant kicked so much ass. Part of the joy is the idea of a car...with a flaming Christmas tree on top...flying through the air into a body of water...to the, you know, strains of Philip Glass' Violin Concerto II. Part of the joy comes from the fact this is the first third of a trilogy, apparently. Part of the joy is that the book is entirely a greatest-hits package of Chuck's strengths...remixed in the \"oral biography\" form. Like, like if Guns n' Roses wrote ten variations on \"Sweet Child o' Mine\" and handed the mastertapes over to...to Moby! Part of the joy comes from the main character deciding to break the habit of time...go back through it and save his mother from being killed (thereby creating the hole for a plot for one of the two other books). Part of the joy comes in receiving a Just Married bumper sticker in the mail for contacting Doubleday and telling them...in effect...that you were bit by a spider (or, what happens when you click on the spider at their promo site). Part of the joy comes in recognizing party-crashing culture in my own life...OK, you guys remember the night: I had my El Dorado all gassed up, and Dave--well-respeced R.A. Dave--was dressed up as a woman that some of us guys had dropped jaws and were like, \"Dude. You're so hot, and that's not cool. Wow, uh, Dave. Wanna sit next to me?\" and we went sharking through Spokane one street and the next, and the next with about six or seven people (three up front, four in the back?) blaring, at Lady Dave's request, an 8-track of Bing Crosby's Greatest Hits and Chella ended up flirting with a carload of boys and, finally, we all ended up at Denny's at 2 in the morning, fixing the local sports commentator's car (he didn't know how to change a tire, but between Carlos, Me, and Sean, we got it done), eating pie, drinking coffee, and watching Chella get uncomfortable around this new guy and, generally, probably, making the guy second-guess what was wrong with this chick that her friends were such an Addam's Family *snap-snap*. ...more Here's what happened as I read that book- I enjoyed it. Then I got angry. I enjoyed the pacing during the middle part that was mostly chronicling the party crashing, appreciating where he'd pulled inspiration- secret raves, art car culture, cruising culture, etc. I definitely picked up vibes of Ballard's Crash too- that almost became too obvious to me. I liked the overt political use of Night-timer vs. Daytimer. All of that, including the early history of Rant, was finely crafted storytelling. How Here's what happened as I read that book- I enjoyed it. Then I got angry. I enjoyed the pacing during the middle part that was mostly chronicling the party crashing, appreciating where he'd pulled inspiration- secret raves, art car culture, cruising culture, etc. I definitely picked up vibes of Ballard's Crash too- that almost became too obvious to me. I liked the overt political use of Night-timer vs. Daytimer. All of that, including the early history of Rant, was finely crafted storytelling. However. I lost my enthusiasm when he pulled out the Chuck trick. The one where he pulls the \"now I'm going to make you suspend your disbelief and try to explain it away with some junky spiritual/scientific talk that I expect you to be too lazy to know anything about yourself and I bet you never saw this coming\" crap. It worked fine in fight club but I guess that was too binary for him, because every trick he's pulled since seems to need more elements. Which only makes it- the trick- more convoluted to the good story line he's got going. I recognize this from Lullaby, Diary and Haunted. Once it happens I can't trust his storytelling and I read the rest of the book because I've committed a lot so far, but there's the pattern that I finish a Chuck book, at least the last quarter, very pissed off. I went from enjoying a fun set up to being pissed off and thinking, yeah yeah, will you just get me to your point and get over yourself? I know. I'm a super tough critic. But he's going to get that from me after making me endure his smug grossness in Haunted. I probably have to get over myself a little bit too, but until that happens, and until he can do a trick that's not so obvious to me, he and I are in a stalemate. ...more Literary speaking... holy s***, Chuck Palahniuk! Holy s***! As I've read below I pressume this is what most of the people call 'punk'. Gotta type it at my favourites! Well... literary speaking:'This is an addiction!'. I am so ready for you Chuck Palahniuk, you have no idea! I will put my 'lack of words' on the back of my 'blown away mind', on my 'superdrugged electric-pinching synapses', 'teary of excitement eyes' and most of all on my 'HOLY MOTHER OF PIES'! I am so sad that I can give this book Literary speaking... holy s***, Chuck Palahniuk! Holy s***! As I've read below I pressume this is what most of the people call 'punk'. Gotta type it at my favourites! Well... literary speaking:'This is an addiction!'. I am so ready for you Chuck Palahniuk, you have no idea! I will put my 'lack of words' on the back of my 'blown away mind', on my 'superdrugged electric-pinching synapses', 'teary of excitement eyes' and most of all on my 'HOLY MOTHER OF PIES'! I am so sad that I can give this book a max. of only 5 stars. If you are still alive and you are reading this right now (I do not care how many stars you'll give this book in the end, how wrong I might be in thinking that you will adore it or how short this review is) read this book, like really! REALLY! P.S: I am kind of ashamed of my short review but some books are better left untold, but explored. If I put a word more about it, it will be like stealing a dose of your LSD... not too pleasant huh? When everything will be over I'll whisper an alluring: 'Trust me!'. ...more Chuck Palahniuk keeps disappointing me. Pros: I liked the way he told the story. It was odd, but I liked it. Cons: Everything else. There are some dark, sick and disturbing images described (which are to be expected since it is a Palahniuk book) but some stuff made me uncomfortable even reading. By the end of this book I was so thoroughly confused that I re-read it. It was clever but it seemed kind of pointless. By the last page you're not sure of anything and annoyed that you spent so much time Chuck Palahniuk keeps disappointing me. Pros: I liked the way he told the story. It was odd, but I liked it. Cons: Everything else. There are some dark, sick and disturbing images described (which are to be expected since it is a Palahniuk book) but some stuff made me uncomfortable even reading. By the end of this book I was so thoroughly confused that I re-read it. It was clever but it seemed kind of pointless. By the last page you're not sure of anything and annoyed that you spent so much time trying to figure out what the hell he was talking about. ...more \u201cHistory is nothing except monsters or victims. Or witnesses.\u201d \u2015 Chuck Palahniuk, Rant Besmisao \u017eivota u svom punom sjaju. OMG CHUCK DID IT AGAIN!! Through a whole of witnesses, you have to glue the pieces together to understand.. and then comes the ending and you're completely MINDBLOWN. Taboos, disgusting elements and the magic of dark humor, you'll find another book worth of Chuck's name. Pure Palahniuk. Good story. Hard to follow and end was sort of a cop out. The foreshadowing was good. and as usual the essence of the book is in the quotes. Quotes: \"Anywhere you find yourself you can improve your skills.\" \"Despite the dreary scenery, it's all very sexual, these towns. It's only the individual who attains an early beauty and sexuality who becomes trapped here. The young men and women who acquire perfect breasts and muscles before they know how best to use that power, they end up pr Pure Palahniuk. Good story. Hard to follow and end was sort of a cop out. The foreshadowing was good. and as usual the essence of the book is in the quotes. Quotes: \"Anywhere you find yourself you can improve your skills.\" \"Despite the dreary scenery, it's all very sexual, these towns. It's only the individual who attains an early beauty and sexuality who becomes trapped here. The young men and women who acquire perfect breasts and muscles before they know how best to use that power, they end up pregnant and mired so close to home. This cycle concentrates the best genetics in places you'd never imagine. Like Middleton. Little nests of wildly attractive idiots who give birth and survive into a long, ugly adulthood. Venuses and Apollos. Small-town gods and goddesses. If Middleton has produced one remarkable product in the tedious, dull, dust history of this community that extraordinary product was Rant Casey.\" \"Life's greatest comfort is being able to look over you shoulder and see people worse off, waiting in like behind you.\" \"You're a different human being to everybody you meet.\" \"The future you have tomorrow won't be the same future you had yesterday.\" \"Some people are just born human. The rest of us, we take a lifetime to get there.\" \"We all have this moment, when you folks first see you as someone not growing up to be them.\" \"Times like that, you look like a failed experiment your parents will have to face for the rest of their lives. A booby prize. And you mom and dad, they look like a God too retarded to fashion anything better than you. You grow up to become living proof of your parent's limitations. Their less-than-masterpiece.\" \"Love is a skill you learn.\" \"Us lying to our folks, them lying to us, nobody wanted to admit to being the liar. Everybody got caught trapped in the same Tooth Fairy lie. You can get plenty of folks telling the same lie if they got a stake in it. You get everybody telling the same lie and it ain't a lie, not no more.\" \"Money you don't work to earn, you spend very quickly.\" \"Adults lying about the Tooth Fairy. Kids lying. Everybody knowing that everybody was lying. Then adults selling helium balloons for a hundred bucks to kids who didn't know any better. Adults stealing from kids, then merchants stealing from folks. Greed on top of greed. Cross my heart, the summer of the Tooth Fairy destroyed all credibility anybody had in Middleton. Since then, nobody's word stands up. To everybody, everybody else is a liar. But folks still smile and act nice.\" \"Folks really will sell you anything for the right price. And I learned a cash-bought merit badge ain't worth shit.\" \"He was trying to find something real in the world. Kids grow up connected to nothing these days, plugged in and living lives boosted to them from other people. Hand-me-down adventures. I think Rant wanted everybody to experience just one real adventure. As a community, something to bond folks.\" \"A child who is disillusioned abruptly, by his peers or siblings, being ridiculed for his faith and imagination, may choose never to believe in anything-tangible or intangible-again. To never trust or wonder. But a child who relinquishe the illusions of Santa Claus, the Easter Bunny, and the Tooth Fairy, that child may come away with the most important skill set. That child ma recognize the strength of his own imagination and faith. He will embrace the ability to create his own reality. That child becomes his own authority. He determines the nature of his world. His own vision. And by doing so, by the power of his example, he determines the reality of the other two types: those who can't imagine, and those who can't trust.\" \"You are your own favorite hobby. You're an expert on you. All a good salesman doe is make eye contact, mimic your body language, nod or laugh or grunt to prove he's spellbound - those noises or gestures, they're called 'verbal attends.' A salesman only has to prove that he's just as obsessed with you as you are with yourself. After that, the two of you share a common passion: you. There's lots more comes after that: embedded commands, objection bridging, hot buttons, tie-down and add-on questions, control questions...you name it. And your truly effective salesman, he knows how to fake that he really, truly does give a shit.\" \"Most guys are keeping score with every lap of their tongue. Every time they come up for air, they're clocking your pleasure. And, lick for lick, you know this had better balance out with the pleasure you give them back. So, lick after lick, you never can relax and get off, not when you know that meter is always running. Every lick and investment in getting licked back. That's every guy-except Rant Casey. He's stick his tongue into you and years would pass. Mountains erode.\" \"'What seems to be the problem, Me. Casey?' And Rant doucks his head, his chin nodding down, he tilts his hips up, points with gin fingers of both hands at his crotch, where the zipper is tented, pointed, poked out so stiff you can see the silver teeth of the steel metal inside. 'Mr. Wyland, sir, I've had a serious erection here for going on two hours...As a fellow matured male, Mr. Wyland, you can appreciate the painful and potentially injurious nature of this situation.\" \"If we were talking about naturally sprung boners, that would be another kettle of fish. But there here were store-bought, chemically engineered woodies sprouted on purpose to disrupt the peaceful classroom environment.\" \"If some asswipe's handing over his time, he should get the train trip sweetened by having the whole mess rewitnessed through a Playboy Bunny on heroin. Morphine at least. Watch those boring, bullshit mountains roll past while zonked on opiates and fondling your own set of love-a-luscious titties. You want to wish the old man a happy Father's Day, that would be my gift of choice.\" \"There are regular people watching their lives squeezed down into dollars, all the hours and days of their life compressed the way the crumple zones of a car get sacrificed. The total hours of their waiting tables or sorting mail or selling shoes, it gets screwed down until they have enough money to pool and buy wheels. A wedding dress. String some tin cans and buy some shaving cream.\" \"Insisting that the journey is always a means to some greater end, and the excitement and danger of the journey minimized. Perpetuation the fallacy that the journey itself is of little value.\" \"Hidden inside that hard, polished paint and glass is another person just as soft and scared as you.\" \"There's worse ways to be dead than dying.\" \"What if reality is nothing but some disease.\" \"No matter what happens, it's always now...I think what Rant meant was, we live in the present moment of reality, and no matter what's come before, no matter how much we loved a person or a dog, when it attacks us we'll react to that moment of danger.\" \"Everyone wants to feel special-attain a special status among their peers-but not too special. Most kids only want to be special the same way their friends are special.\" \"How can you say Rant Casey overreacted? How's an intelligent person supposed to react when he discovers that he's merely the product of a corrupt and evil system? How do you continue to live after you learn that your every breath, every dollar you pay in taxes, every baby you conceive and love will only perpetuate some evil system? How do you live knowing your every cell and drop of blood are part of the big evil?\" \"Maybe this is how any religious figure gets create-his friends brag him up, huger and huger, so they can get laid. You can picture St. Peter in a bar telling some pretty girl, 'Yeah, I hung with Jesus Christ. We were best buds...\" \"Ask yourself: What did I eat for breakfast today? What did I eat for dinner last night? You see how fast reality fades away?\" ...more Definitely the weirdest book I\u2019ve read by Chuck Palanhuik so far. So bizarrely gross and sick I almost stopped reading it. But I was hoping the stranger the beginning, the bigger the payoff. It was worthwhile, but I wouldn\u2019t recommend this to a casual acquaintance. They\u2019d probably call a psych watch on me. It starts off about this crazy kid called Rant who intentionally catches rabies and spreads it to as many people as he can. But it\u2019s written like a screenplay, with everyone chipping in their s Definitely the weirdest book I\u2019ve read by Chuck Palanhuik so far. So bizarrely gross and sick I almost stopped reading it. But I was hoping the stranger the beginning, the bigger the payoff. It was worthwhile, but I wouldn\u2019t recommend this to a casual acquaintance. They\u2019d probably call a psych watch on me. It starts off about this crazy kid called Rant who intentionally catches rabies and spreads it to as many people as he can. But it\u2019s written like a screenplay, with everyone chipping in their side of the story. It was hard to get into because I had no idea what anyone was talking about for the first 150 pages. Then you start to understand he lives in this Matrix-type future, and while he may be this incredible mastermind, he\u2019s also the pawn of a time-travelling serial-rapist, in a bigger battle between social classes. He moves from his hillbilly town to the city, and that's when things get even crazier. This is my understanding of it: Green Taylor Simms is Rant. GTS is 23 when he crashes his car and goes back in time 60 years. He goes to his OWN house and had sex with his/Rant\u2019s great-grandmother Hattie. Hattie had his/Rant\u2019s grandmother Esther. Then he came back and raped Esther who had his/Rant\u2019s mother Irene. Then he raped Irene, who had Rant. Every time, Simms\u2019 senses are getting stronger because he\u2019s multiplying his influence in the gene pool that ultimately leads to Rant. Simms is also killing all the mothers in their old age. Simms tells Rant to go back in time and kill his mother Irene to make them both immortal. Instead, Rant goes back to try to stop Simms from raping his mom. He\u2019s too late, so he changes his name to Chester and marries his pregnant mom and raises the kid who turns out to be him/Rant. As a father he encourages Rant\u2019s crazy rabies-seeking behavior because only people who have their \u2018ports\u2019 damaged by the disease are able to time travel. Green Taylor Simms crashes car as an old man and disappears. Chester Casey disappears in single car wreck, with Neddy in passenger seat. Questions: \u201cCharles\u201d Casey was a traffic flow engineer. 16 years ago, he rear-ended Echo\u2019s parents, his body was never recovered. Does he become Green Taylor Simms? Tina Something disappears after crashing a Dodge Viper \u2013 is she the 25-year-old bride who survives the crash into a train? (Pg 265-7). ...more Palahniuk's ability to create vivid imagery is undeniable and the way \u201cBuster Casey\u201d is structured makes it an addictive read. Unfortunately, the story is so bad you feel guilty about reading it when you come down from the immediate gratification high and the hallucinations go away. The story is told in a series of narrations from the perspective of several different characters. Each character describes their take on the title character and event\u2019s surrounding him. The narrators are really the ma Palahniuk's ability to create vivid imagery is undeniable and the way \u201cBuster Casey\u201d is structured makes it an addictive read. Unfortunately, the story is so bad you feel guilty about reading it when you come down from the immediate gratification high and the hallucinations go away. The story is told in a series of narrations from the perspective of several different characters. Each character describes their take on the title character and event\u2019s surrounding him. The narrators are really the main characters and getting to know them through their accounts of someone else is an interesting departure from the usual way stories are told. At times the accounts are repetitive while at others they contradict one another, this might sound annoying but it actually adds to the story by highlighting how the differences in the characters affect their perception. Although the imagery was fantastic and the structure was novel (at least to me) these two pluses still can\u2019t make-up for the bad story. Parts of it were derivative; it was hard not to see the similarities between the party-crashers and J.G. Ballard\u2019s Crash, and the reason for centering it on a disease that obviously does not present in the manner described escapes me. The sci-fi like themes he introduces (some of which I can\u2019t mention or I would give to much away) doesn't help the story either, other than by making it campier than it already is. This is my first book experience with Palahniuk and I plan to read some of his other works, at least one more anyway. However, I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone. ...more Click See Review to view Image Rant is an informal and funny oral biography of a man named Buster Casey (Rant) born in the rural town of Middleton with wicked senses of smell and taste far more superior than any other human. He acquired the nickname \"Rant\" from a childhood hoax involving animal organs which later on resulted in plentiful people getting sick. As the victims throw up, they make a sound resembling the word \"rant,\" which becomes a local synonym for \"vomit\" and Buster's nickname (\u2018cau Click See Review to view Image Rant is an informal and funny oral biography of a man named Buster Casey (Rant) born in the rural town of Middleton with wicked senses of smell and taste far more superior than any other human. He acquired the nickname \"Rant\" from a childhood hoax involving animal organs which later on resulted in plentiful people getting sick. As the victims throw up, they make a sound resembling the word \"rant,\" which becomes a local synonym for \"vomit\" and Buster's nickname (\u2018cause he started it all). Anyway, the setting of the story constantly changes, which is sometimes confusing as I tried to follow the events of the book but nevertheless it\u2019s quite enjoyable. ;) I would recommend this book to anyone, especially to the readers who really love Science Fiction. BTW, here's the spider who started it all! [Click See Review to view Image] BOOO! ...more Time-travelling rednecks have always fascinated me. The ones who become superspreaders of rabies for the purpose are even more fun. If not for the awesome story, you should read this book for the skill with which the author unveils the plot. Chronological exposition is so 2008. A biography told at different points in time, composed of interviews with people is a totally different story. Also, time based segregation FTW! Palahniuk knows how to keep your interest.", "Title": "Rant"},
