{"Comments": "I laughed out loud.<---F> While reading</---F>. In a Japanese rice bowl joint. Okay, so maybe it was more of a chortle, but it was definitely out loud. And more than just the once. Patrons quietly minding their own business while slogging through their Number Three Specials With Extra Tokyo Beef would be startled into wakefulness to see me - chopsticks in one hand, book in the other - as my grizzled maw broke forth with guffaws and irrepressible smiles. Really, <+++>Anansi Boys</+++> may be the first thing I've read fro I laughed out loud. While reading. In a Japanese rice bowl joint. Okay, so maybe it was more of a chortle, but it was definitely out loud. And more than just the once. Patrons quietly minding their own business while slogging through their Number Three Specials With Extra Tokyo Beef would be startled into wakefulness to see me - chopsticks in one hand, book in the other - as my grizzled maw broke forth with guffaws and irrepressible smiles. Really, <+++>Anansi Boys</+++> may be the first thing I've read from <---A>Neil Gaiman</---A> that I liked. I never got into Sandman (<---B>though I'm told I should have persevered</---B>). I never finished American Gods (though I'm told I should have persevered). I never finished 1602 (despite guessing that I should have persevered). Still, not only did I like it but I loved it. Enough that I gave my copy to someone else to read and purchased a second copy for another friend. And I'm certain they'll want to do similar things with the book. Anansi Boys is at all times funny, adventurous, and charming. And several other over-used adjectives. In fact, Anansi Boys may be the prototype from which overused adjectives should have come - before they were overused. I'm not sure that Anansi Boys is great literature and I'm not sure that it isn't. What I am certain of beyond any shadow of doubtfulness is that Anansi Boys may be the most fun I have ever had reading a novel. There may be others that I enjoyed more but my experience of this book was such that it pushed (if even momentarily) all other books from my mind. Someone on the back suggests that the book will make you love and be grateful for spiders. Critics and the things they say,<---M> huh? Well</---M>, I don't love spiders, but dang was this book good. The end. p.s. Anyone thinking of reading Blue like Jazz or Against Christianity or something by Karl Barth should definitely read this first. 'Cuz I mean what if you died after finishing the next book on your queue? It would be an all time tragedy to have wasted hours reading Donald Miller when there is something like Anansi Boys out there. Plus, it's just as spiritual. ...more I agree with many of the reviewers who praise this fun and inventive novel, but I am especially fascinated by how Gaiman represents race in Anansi Boys . He chooses not to explicitly identify that his globe-trotting main characters are black until at least p. 32 (if I'm mistaken, somebody please let me know) and only then as a point-of-fact that is secondary to their status as gods. It is true that anyone who has read American Gods or heard traditional African folktales will have met Anansi befor I agree with many of the reviewers who praise this fun and inventive novel, but I am especially fascinated by how Gaiman represents race in Anansi Boys . He chooses not to explicitly identify that his globe-trotting main characters are black until at least p. 32 (if I'm mistaken, somebody please let me know) and only then as a point-of-fact that is secondary to their status as gods. It is true that anyone who has read American Gods or heard traditional African folktales will have met Anansi before, but even here the story emphasizes the cultural distinctiveness of the Caribbean island where this Anansi lives without employing heavy racial signifiers. (This isn't the same as being \"race-neutral\" - whatever that means! - and the white characters are identified as such.) At first I thought it was odd, then really interesting and a thoughtful way to put Anansi and his fellow gods on equal footing with other cultural myths and legends. Toni Morrison experiments with this in \"Recitatif\" and Paradise , but it is nice to see the technique employed in unexpected places. The story is also influenced by Zora Neale Hurston's work, which is cool. While I still like American Gods better, this is a great read. It's also hilarious - see one of the quotes I saved below. ...more I've come to recognize that one of the main reasons I enjoyed this book so much was that I listened to the audiobook, performed by comedian Lenny Henry, whose background as a Brit of Caribbean descent made him the perfect choice to bring the characters to life. A lot of audiobooks aren't very good, but this one way great, and really brings out the fact that Anansi stories are meant to be heard. It's recognizable Gaiman stuff, with the fish-out-of-water narrator in a modern fantasy world, with the I've come to recognize that one of the main reasons I enjoyed this book so much was that I listened to the audiobook, performed by comedian Lenny Henry, whose background as a Brit of Caribbean descent made him the perfect choice to bring the characters to life. A lot of audiobooks aren't very good, but this one way great, and really brings out the fact that Anansi stories are meant to be heard. It's recognizable Gaiman stuff, with the fish-out-of-water narrator in a modern fantasy world, with the author sxploring the history and the form of the mythic story, but there's a level of deprecating humor in this book that is lacking in other works by Gaiman. One can catch snips of wit in any of his books. Any good book must include some humor: an author might as futilely try to excise pain or desire from life as humor. Gaiman has never placed any such artificial limits on his work; indeed, the only limits on his books are those he, himself cannot overcome. Previously, his humor was only an occasional element, but there was apparently something in the writing of this particular book which finally allowed him to unleash his sense of the comic as a whole entity. The text swims and bobs with the ridiculous, the unfortunate, and the clever. After reading 'Good Omens', written by Gaiman and Prachett, I was told that without Prachett, it would have retained none of the humor. I now begin to wonder whether if Pratchett added anything at all. Indeed, this work of Gaiman's overshadows that earlier work in both degrees and shades of the insightful and entertaining. With the focus on Anansi and stories, the book provides an amusing analysis of storytelling itself, so that anyone who studies the nature and classification of tales will find certain asides and references particularly amusing. It is rare these days that an author will write a piece of fiction which explores on a subtextual level a concept or idea fundamental to the work itself. I have come to wish that more authors could gain the audacity that Gaiman found here. There is a degree to which this story matches Gaiman's usual monomythic progression from naive outsider to coy insider, which at the outset was my greatest difficulty with the work. The inevitability and redundancy of this trope makes me wish for Gaiman's more eccentric and perverse moments. However, I found in the clever and skilled text a story worth experiencing, and one which matches or exceeds Gaiman's other attempts in the modern fantasy genre. The story is not as epic or dire as Gaiman's tend to be, and without that there is a loss of urgency in the story. This is not really a deficiency, however, as the playful humor could not cohabitate comfortably with an ever-steepening plot curve. The work fits into Gaiman's usual mode, exploring the myths and psychologies that most interest him. It may lose some of his fans in that it is less dark and brooding, less hopeless, but this could hardly be counted a loss. Any reader who wants more of the same can re-read his old works. the rest of us may appreciate seeing a master storyteller exploring his form in a new and engaging way. My Fantasy Book Suggestions ...more One of the few Gaiman books that I only gush mildly about, as opposed to gushing enthusiastically. It's a solid book, and it does all the things that makes Gaiman's books great. It's got humor, myth, gravitas, cleverness.... But it simply didn't impress me as much as Neverwhere, Stardust, American Gods, or Coriline. I'm willing to admit that the only reason I don't rank this book as 5 stars is because I'm comparing it to his other books, which are profound and perfect. That's probably unfair of One of the few Gaiman books that I only gush mildly about, as opposed to gushing enthusiastically. It's a solid book, and it does all the things that makes Gaiman's books great. It's got humor, myth, gravitas, cleverness.... But it simply didn't impress me as much as Neverwhere, Stardust, American Gods, or Coriline. I'm willing to admit that the only reason I don't rank this book as 5 stars is because I'm comparing it to his other books, which are profound and perfect. That's probably unfair of me, but I never claimed to be completely fair. ...more A Digression and a Review: When I was a child who was much too prone to being serious for her own good, there was a catalpa tree in our backyard. Now, if you don't know what a catalpa tree is, it's worth a Google. Catalpas are beautiful and exotic, with giant leaves we used as \"plates\" to have fairy-like meals of mulberry and honeysuckle (with mimosa blossoms as a bit of garnish), giant bean pods that hung down like sylvan fingers ready to ensnare an unsuspecting child, white orchid-like flowers A Digression and a Review: When I was a child who was much too prone to being serious for her own good, there was a catalpa tree in our backyard. Now, if you don't know what a catalpa tree is, it's worth a Google. Catalpas are beautiful and exotic, with giant leaves we used as \"plates\" to have fairy-like meals of mulberry and honeysuckle (with mimosa blossoms as a bit of garnish), giant bean pods that hung down like sylvan fingers ready to ensnare an unsuspecting child, white orchid-like flowers that would shower down while we swung on the tire swing below. In its boughs, I could pretend to be Pocahontas, a female Mowgli, or Jana of the Jungle. I would climb up and look down to the ground so far below, filled with delicious terror at how impossibly high I was. This tree seemed massive--big enough to hold all of my dreams and wildest flights of fancy. It, to paraphrase Zora Neale Hurston, seemed to hold dawn and doom in its branches. As an adult, however, this tree that looms so gargantuan in my imaginary landscape seems small and shrunken, like a wizened grandparent, its limbs not so big, and I realize that, while I felt like I was climbing to the top of a skyscraper, I was barely 10 feet off the ground. I bring this up because this is the closest approximation I can make to the difference between reading as a child and reading as an adult. As a child, there was a magic in stories, and I'm not talking about pixie dust and wands (although there was certainly some of that). There was a magic in not knowing (or caring) where a story was going. A magic to realizing why, hey, that main character is kind of like me. A magic to finding that you could read the same story over and over and over again and it would never get old and would never be the same story twice, not really. The colors were brighter. The emotions were palpable. There was nothing but possibility. And, yes, there's certainly still magic in the stories I read as an adult, but it's never quite the same, is it? I'm a little more jaded in that, as soon as I can predict where the story is going, I lose a little interest. There's a little more cynicism, a little more impatience with an \"I've been here before\" narrative, and a little more sadness in knowing that I can never immerse myself in adult stories with the same abandon as that 10 year old reading under the catalpa tree. Now, I bring this up to explain that this is why I love Neil Gaiman. Gaiman can, more so than any other author, create that childlike awe of story within the adult me without telling a children's story. It's a peculiar and wonderful literary alchemy, this ability to take the adult world, the \"real\" world, and transform it into a place where one can find the same charm, humor, unpredictability, and enchantment found in the best children's narratives. And Anansi Boys is such a book. A companion book to American Gods , Anansi Boys , follows the story of <---C>Fat Charlie</---C>, son of Mr. Nancy, a rascal of a man with a wicked sense of humor, an eye for the ladies, and a knack for purposely embarrassing his introverted, sensitive son. When Mr. Nancy dies, the now grown-up, soon to be married, and tenuously employed Fat Charlie is relieved that his father can never humiliate him again; however he soon finds out that life is not going to settle into a mundane, predictable pattern for him. He learns that his father was Anansi, the trickster spider god of African folklore, and he learns that he has a brother, Spider, who inherited his father's mischievous spirit and magical abilities. It's not long before the reunion between the two brothers breaks out into a serious (and frequently hilarious) case of sibling rivalry, with Spider usurping Fat Charlie's apartment, girlfriend, and life, and Fat Charlie going to extreme lengths to rid himself of his demigod brother. Anansi Boys lacks the darkness of American Gods and is a much more whimsical, comedic read. Initially, this did cause a bit of a disconnect for me until I gave in to the story without trying to connect it with or hold it up to my expectations of American Gods . While following the adventures of Fat Charlie, I found myself laughing aloud and relishing each twist and turn in the story (as well as looking forward to the humorous \"in which\" chapter titles). Gaiman's love of story is evident and, as we learn through his depiction of Anansi folktales, the stories we tell and the stories we live are important not just for entertainment, but for creating the world as it should be. And the world as it should be is something as close as possible to a catalpa tree as seen through the eyes of a child--a place where anything and everything is possible, because that's where real magic resides. Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder ...more Anansi Boys by Neil Gaiman blends the best attributes of Gaiman\u2019s extraordinary talent: excellent writing, original storytelling, mythic elements, and confidence. A central theme in the narrative is about confidence and that is also how Gaiman tells the tale, his writing exudes confidence, he writes with a virtuoso\u2019s swagger. Not really taking off where American Gods left off, but neither does it depart from Gaiman\u2019s myth and legends foundations, Anansi Boys sings the song of Fat Charlie, Mr. Na Anansi Boys by Neil Gaiman blends the best attributes of Gaiman\u2019s extraordinary talent: excellent writing, original storytelling, mythic elements, and confidence. A central theme in the narrative is about confidence and that is also how Gaiman tells the tale, his writing exudes confidence, he writes with a virtuoso\u2019s swagger. Not really taking off where American Gods left off, but neither does it depart from Gaiman\u2019s myth and legends foundations, Anansi Boys sings the song of Fat Charlie, Mr. Nancy\u2019s somewhat estranged son and how he gets his groove back. Very entertaining. ...more Anansi Boys is like a rollercoaster without the loops, very few twists and one that keeps the speed to a minimum. You strap yourself in, ready for excitement that never materializes. My god, I've never felt more luke warm towards a book in my life. The mildly interesting story is of a somewhat relatable modern day slacker coming to grips with his father's and brother's overwhelming personalities as well as a fantasy world he didn't know existed. I'm tired of stories with modern day slackers brin Anansi Boys is like a rollercoaster without the loops, very few twists and one that keeps the speed to a minimum. You strap yourself in, ready for excitement that never materializes. My god, I've never felt more luke warm towards a book in my life. The mildly interesting story is of a somewhat relatable modern day slacker coming to grips with his father's and brother's overwhelming personalities as well as a fantasy world he didn't know existed. I'm tired of stories with modern day slackers bringing their pessimistic cynicisms to a world filled with fantastical lore. It's a fourth wall breaker and it's been done to death. I won't say Gaiman has taken the myth, mystery and intrigue completely out of this Caribbean mythology. He has however married it with a modern sensibility that claps a ball and chain about its ankle. At least with other books of his he can be given the credit of imaginary inventiveness. Anansi Boys doesn't even have that going for it. ...more ANANSI BOYS (hereinafter AB) is the archetype tale of the hero's quest but in place of the typical warrior hero is a fool, and, oh, it happens to take place in our days and there is the wonder of something magical yet not totally seen. Our fool of a hero is Fat Charlie. He used to be chubby as a kid but now he's in good enough shape yet everyone remembers him as Fat Charlie so the name sticks, much to his chagrin, and, it's all the fault of his father. Wait, did I tell you his father is a trickste ANANSI BOYS (hereinafter AB) is the archetype tale of the hero's quest but in place of the typical warrior hero is a fool, and, oh, it happens to take place in our days and there is the wonder of something magical yet not totally seen. Our fool of a hero is Fat Charlie. He used to be chubby as a kid but now he's in good enough shape yet everyone remembers him as Fat Charlie so the name sticks, much to his chagrin, and, it's all the fault of his father. Wait, did I tell you his father is a trickster African God? That makes it even harder on Fat Charlie because he's not dealing just with a mortal father but a father who is an African God and who can usually persuade people to do almost anything and make them usually laugh over it. At one point, back in the day, when Fat Charlie was a kid, his father tricked him into dressing like President Taft on President's Day and told him everyone else would be dressed that way, too. Well, they were not and Fat Charlie was belittled to tears by the other kids and his father thought it was all amusing. Now, don't start thinking Fat Charlie's father is overly cruel because there are other stories that favor him doing kind things for his son. Did I mention this father, known as Anansi, by the way, has two sons? Fat Charlie is the mortal one and this other son, known as Spider, is the one with all the powers. After Anansi appears to bite it while singing karaoke (something Fat Charlie could never do) there's a big funeral and a series of steps in the story lead to the two brothers linking up for the first time. Spider finally meets Fat Charlie, who lives in London but who grew up in Florida, and Spider decides he wants to live with Fat Charlie for a while. But . . . It turns out that Spider likes Fat Charlie's lifestyle so much that he steals his fiance and takes over his job while Fat Charlie goes off to talk to some witches (four old ladies living in a suburb) to have Spider banished. In doing so, he goes to another dimension where life first began and makes a deal with Bird Woman who has a grudge against Fat Charlie's family. What then takes place is a situation where a mortal and his demigod brother are attacked from several different fronts by this immortal, godlike Bird Woman. Oh, and Fat Charlie gets it for another girl but has to rescue his old fiance and her mother from another superpower in the Bahamas where he learns what it means to be a hero, even if he is truly the archetype fool. Overall, a superb urban fantasy with overlapping themes of coming of age, Pandora's Box, the twists and turns of life and how we all have family members we really want to get away from. Heh. And, on a far deeper level, one could also say this is about being human, even around the face immortal Gods. CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: A minus; STORY/PLOTTING/EDITING: B to B plus; THEMES/LEGENDS: B; OVERALL GRADE: B plus. ...more I love Neil Gaiman 's Sandman so much that I am desperate to love the rest of his work, but I can't do much more than like it because it's mostly only okay. He deals with all the stuff I love -- mythology, the occult, death, dreams, the urban fantastic -- but he's too tongue-in-cheek. When I read one of his novels, I feel like I'm reading the Nick Hornby of fantasy. Too clever, too hip and too cool for his own good. It's not that I don't like his prose work. I do. And I even love some of it (like W I love Neil Gaiman 's Sandman so much that I am desperate to love the rest of his work, but I can't do much more than like it because it's mostly only okay. He deals with all the stuff I love -- mythology, the occult, death, dreams, the urban fantastic -- but he's too tongue-in-cheek. When I read one of his novels, I feel like I'm reading the Nick Hornby of fantasy. Too clever, too hip and too cool for his own good. It's not that I don't like his prose work. I do. And I even love some of it (like Wolves in the Walls , if that counts, and Stardust ), but when I get to what should be the meat of his oeuvre, American Gods and its sequel, i can't help feeling let down. It's not that I don't like his characters. Mr. Nancy, Spider and Fat Charlie are pretty groovy; the book reads fast and is entertaining; I even dig the ending, but somehow none of that is enough. I want more from Neil. I want to be dazzled, and he teases me with bedazzlement constantly, but I've only been dazzled by Dreams -- nothing else has come close. And maybe that's my problem right there: having found Gaiman through Sandman, everything that's followed pales in comparison. I am always looking for greatness, and all I get is pretty good. So if you read this review, Neil, just know that I love you, and I will always read you, and I am constantly looking for that drug-like hit I had the first time I bought a Sandman comic (and yes I am that old) and was blown away by your storytelling. You are a victim of your own best work. Please, please, please blow me away again. ...more I kept intending to write a proper review/ recommendation of ANANSI BOYS, which I read while I was in Australia, but for some reason, every time I sat down to write it, all that came out were words in one syllables, which makes for a lousy book review. Sample copy of my early blog posts about ANANSI BOYS: This book is good. This book is fast. This book is fun. This book is what it says it is. Which is fun. This book is a good, fast, fun read. I'm just not sure it's going to get any better than that. I I kept intending to write a proper review/ recommendation of ANANSI BOYS, which I read while I was in Australia, but for some reason, every time I sat down to write it, all that came out were words in one syllables, which makes for a lousy book review. Sample copy of my early blog posts about ANANSI BOYS: This book is good. This book is fast. This book is fun. This book is what it says it is. Which is fun. This book is a good, fast, fun read. I'm just not sure it's going to get any better than that. I liked this book better than its predecessor, AMERICAN GODS, and you don't need to have read that one in order for this one to make any sense. The only other thing I can say is that I immediately went out and bought another copy to give away to a friend, so that should stand for something, surely. ...more It's remarkable, really, how long I was permitted to exist without reading Neil Gaiman. In retrospect, I suppose it's a good thing that I didn't read any of his books until college - had I been exposed to his work in high school, the result would have been a near-obsession filled with pages of awful fanfiction and an emotional meltdown when I learned that Mr. Gaiman is happily married. But this didn't happen, thankfully. My first Neil Gaiman book was American Gods , and when my roommate (a much m It's remarkable, really, how long I was permitted to exist without reading Neil Gaiman. In retrospect, I suppose it's a good thing that I didn't read any of his books until college - had I been exposed to his work in high school, the result would have been a near-obsession filled with pages of awful fanfiction and an emotional meltdown when I learned that Mr. Gaiman is happily married. But this didn't happen, thankfully. My first Neil Gaiman book was American Gods , and when my roommate (a much more dedicated fan than me) recommended it, she added that although the book was good, Anansi Boys was better. I started reading this one with some trepidation, as I was convinced that nothing could ever be as good as American Gods , but to my delight, I was proven wrong. Sometimes, you read a book and know you're going to love it by the end of the first chapter. Sometimes you know after the first paragraph. With Anansi Boys , I knew at the dedication . It goes like this: \"You know how it is. You pick up a book, flip to the dedication, and find that, once again, the author has dedicated the book to someone else and not to you. Not this time. Because we haven't yet met/have only a glancing acquaintance/are just crazy about each other/haven't seen each other in much too long/are in some way related/will never meet, but will, I trust, despite that, always think fondly of each other... This one's for you. With you know what, and you probably know why.\" Someone fetch me a fainting couch and some smelling salts, I need to swoon for a moment. Ok, I'm back. Anyway, what I really liked about this book was it just focused on a small group of people. American Gods , this book's predecessor-but-not-exactly-prequel, was a sprawling epic with tons of characters and rules and the fate of the entire world and then some depended on the ending coming off right. Anansi Boys takes that same world, one in which the gods are still alive and living among us, and zeroes in on just a couple of characters: the trickster god Anansi's two adult sons, one of whom has grown up knowing his father is a god, the other who is unaware of this. The stakes are still high, of course, and battles must be fought before the end, but the scope of the novel wasn't as expansive and exhausting as American Gods . You don't necessarily have to read one before the other, but it certainly couldn't hurt. I forgot to mark the good passages in my copy, so here are three random excerpts from the pages I remember off the top of my head: \"Like all sentient beings, Fat Charlie had a weirdness quotient. For some days the needle had been over in the red, occasionally banging jerkily against the pin. Now the meter broke. From this moment on, he suspected, nothing would surprise him. He could no longer be outweirded. He was done. He was wrong, of course.\" \"Fat Charlie tried to remember what people did in prison to pass the time, but all he could come up with was keeping secret diaries and hiding things in their bottoms. He had nothing to write on, and felt that a definite measure of how well one was getting on in life was not having to hide things in one's bottom. Nothing happened. Nothing continued to happen. More Nothing. The Return of Nothing. Son of Nothing. Nothing Rides Again. Nothing and Abbott and Costello meet the Wolfman.\" \"Maybe Anansi's just some guy from a story, made up back in Africa in the dawn days of the world by some boy with blackfly on his leg, pushing his crutch in the dirt, making up some goofy story about a man made of tar. Does that change anything? People respond to the stories. They tell them themselves. The stories spread, and as people tell them, the stories change the tellers. Because now the folks who never had any thought in their head but how to run from lions and keep far enough away from rivers that the crocodiles don't get an easy meal, now they're starting to dream about a whole new place to live. The world may be the same, but the wallpaper's changed.\" ...more 4.0 to 4.5 stars. Another superb story by one of my favorite authors. While not a sequel to his superb American Gods , it shares the title character with that book along with some references to his adventures in that story. While those references add to the richness of the tale, there is no necessity of reading American God first (except for the obvious one that it is one of the best books ever). Anyway, this story center around Charles \"Fat Charlie\" Nancy, a timid, passive man from London whose 4.0 to 4.5 stars. Another superb story by one of my favorite authors. While not a sequel to his superb American Gods , it shares the title character with that book along with some references to his adventures in that story. While those references add to the richness of the tale, there is no necessity of reading American God first (except for the obvious one that it is one of the best books ever). Anyway, this story center around Charles \"Fat Charlie\" Nancy, a timid, passive man from London whose life is turned upside down when his very flamboyant father dies. Charlie soon discovers that his father was actually an incarnation of \"Anansi\" the West African trickster god (whose primary form is that of a spider). Things go from bad to worse when Charlie meets his previously unknown older brother, Spider. Spider proceeds to turn Charlie's previously dull existence upside down through a series of events that I won't spoil here except to say that, in typical Neil Gaiman fashion, they meet a plethora of incredibly unique and intersting characters during the course of the narrative. Neil Gaiman is an incredible story teller and this book is another great one. Highly Recommended!! Winner: British Fantasy Award for Best Novel (2006) Winner: Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel (2006) Winner: Mythopoeic Fantasy Award for Best Novel (2006) Winner: SFSite Reader's Poll for SF/Fantasy Novel (2006) ...more A delight! It's got that outrageous \"Freaky Friday\"/Prince and the Pauper narrative; Britishisms a-la Evelyn Waugh; and a peck of Douglas Adams's brand of whimsy (this is infinitely better than Hitchhiker's Guide, & much better than the author's own Stardust AND Neverwhere). It's adorably Beetlejuician! What's not to like?! Mr. Gaiman has the same problem as Terry Pratchet. He can present the material, but he can't make me care. It's not a good sign when you're halfway through a book and you realize that if you put down the book and walked away right then and there, and never found out how the book ended, you wouldn't care. I don't care whether things work out between him and Rosie. I don't care if his dad is still alive or not. I don't care if he and his brother ever make up. I wouldn't care if the author ended th Mr. Gaiman has the same problem as Terry Pratchet. He can present the material, but he can't make me care. It's not a good sign when you're halfway through a book and you realize that if you put down the book and walked away right then and there, and never found out how the book ended, you wouldn't care. I don't care whether things work out between him and Rosie. I don't care if his dad is still alive or not. I don't care if he and his brother ever make up. I wouldn't care if the author ended the book with 'then a bomb exploded and they all died the end'. I am unable to get interested in any of the characters or the plot. And the book was supposed to be funny, but most of the jokes just made it seem like he was trying way too hard. I've had this problem with all of Gaiman's books. I guess it just not my thing. ...more I'm not sure what I was expecting. I had quite a bit of knowledge about the Anansi stories going in (my dad, a college prof, was also a professional storyteller while I was growing up, and the Anasi stories were part of his routine) -- perhaps someone who was meeting Anansi for the first time via Gaiman would feel differently. Though multi-layered, it was light enough to feel deceptively simple, yet I felt as though it lacked... something. Notes I made while reading (I read this for a Book Club) I'm not sure what I was expecting. I had quite a bit of knowledge about the Anansi stories going in (my dad, a college prof, was also a professional storyteller while I was growing up, and the Anasi stories were part of his routine) -- perhaps someone who was meeting Anansi for the first time via Gaiman would feel differently. Though multi-layered, it was light enough to feel deceptively simple, yet I felt as though it lacked... something. Notes I made while reading (I read this for a Book Club): -- the race of the characters was never overtly stated except for Daisy and Grahame Coats. It took me a while to realize that the majority of the characters were black/Caribbean. Not sure if matters to the story at all, but it was strange to have to visually reset about two thirds of the way through the book. -- main females have flower names (Rosie, Daisy) or smell like flowers (the older ladies = violets, lavender)... any significance? -- significance of other names: Coats (fur coat? tiger's pelt?), Livingstone (for a character that spends half the book as a ghost) -- interesting that Gaiman is writing about writing: the power of the story/song -- definite ties to MacBeth: (being misled by) witches, (lust for) power/ambition, betrayal of friends/family, paradoxes & pairs (similar yet not identical, illusory elements), blood & gore, (upset of) natural order (Anansi & Tiger), moral ambiguity All in all, I didn't like the novel. I certainly admire Gaiman's ability to manipulate so many elements, location, puzzle pieces, etc. but overall it felt... unsubstantial, pretentious and a bit overblown. ...more Iaako se vodi kao nastavak Ameri\u010dkih bogova ova knjiga je sve osim toga. S Bogovima dijeli jednog sporednog lika (Anasija) i svjet u kojem se odvija radnja. Negdi sam pro\u010ditao da je Gaiman Anasijeve de\u010dke po\u010deo pisati prine Ameri\u010dkih Bogova ali da je njih prije dovr\u0161io. To se apsolutno vidi u stilu kojim su te knjige pisane. Dok su Bogovi mra\u010dniji i vi\u0161e podsje\u0107aju na mitove Anasijevi de\u010dki su, poput prija\u0161njih Gaimanovih djela, bajka. Lijepo osmi\u0161ljena i ispri\u010dana bajka koja te dr\u017ei priljepljen Iaako se vodi kao nastavak Ameri\u010dkih bogova ova knjiga je sve osim toga. S Bogovima dijeli jednog sporednog lika (Anasija) i svjet u kojem se odvija radnja. Negdi sam pro\u010ditao da je Gaiman Anasijeve de\u010dke po\u010deo pisati prine Ameri\u010dkih Bogova ali da je njih prije dovr\u0161io. To se apsolutno vidi u stilu kojim su te knjige pisane. Dok su Bogovi mra\u010dniji i vi\u0161e podsje\u0107aju na mitove Anasijevi de\u010dki su, poput prija\u0161njih Gaimanovih djela, bajka. Lijepo osmi\u0161ljena i ispri\u010dana bajka koja te dr\u017ei priljepljenog za knjigu od prve do zadnje stranice. Toliko mi se bilo te\u0161ko odvojit od nje da sam pro\u010dita i par stranica posvete \u0161to ina\u010de ne \u010dinim Ako su sve pri\u010de i bile Anasijeve vi\u0161e nisu jer ih je Gaiman prisvoijo sebi. \u010cista petica i naklon do poda ...more 2.5 stars I should have known better than to try another book by Gaiman after too many disappointments from him in the past. But I've read just enough good work by him to keep me coming back, hoping to strike gold again. Unfortunately, all I found here was fool's gold. Maybe that sounds harsh, considering the story was very imaginative, rich in details stemming from a myth originating in an African folktale. But here's why I think this book glitters only on the surface. The character from the abo 2.5 stars I should have known better than to try another book by Gaiman after too many disappointments from him in the past. But I've read just enough good work by him to keep me coming back, hoping to strike gold again. Unfortunately, all I found here was fool's gold. Maybe that sounds harsh, considering the story was very imaginative, rich in details stemming from a myth originating in an African folktale. But here's why I think this book glitters only on the surface. The character from the above folktale takes the form of a spider and is the spirit of all knowledge of stories. This spider--Anansi--often takes the form of a man, and that's where this book begins, with the death of Mr. Nancy, a seemingly carefree and crafty fellow. He has a son he referred to as Fat Charlie, even though Charlie had only been a bit plump for a few years before adolescence. When Mr. Nancy dies, Charlie discovers his father was the god, Anansi, whose powers were inherited by his son--not Charlie, though, but Charlie's brother, Spider, whom Charlie never knew existed. With the help of some magic, Charlie wishes to meet the brother he never knew, which is a case of being \"careful what you wish for\" as chaos ensues. So far so good, with what seemed like a family drama rich in myth with magic unfolding. But despite an explanation for his behavior given later, Charlie was a bit too wimpy for a main character whom I'm supposed to root for. He has a fianc\u00e9 who controls him and a boss who pushes him around and demeans him, and then a newly met brother who challenges him in other ways, and Charlie takes this treatment as his due, along with a nickname he outgrew long ago. And to make matters worse, this is about all the character development Charlie or any other characters get as this story turns into a mish mash when combining a family drama with a crime story on top of multiple fantasy elements. With so much going on, instead of the story racing forward, it crawled sideways like a crab, weaving this way and that, until eventually it tired and reached its destination. So many details, which added nothing but length to this story, bogged it down, the resolution a missed opportunity when a twist at the two-thirds mark had me hoping for more. Did I like anything about this book? The thing I liked best which allowed me to get through it was the audiobook's narrator, Lenny Henry, who reeled off a dozen voices with ease, the pacing of his reading zipping along faster than the actual story, yet easy to understand. His performance earned five stars. I also enjoyed the myths and the twist in the story. If only the story hadn't had as many arms as Shiva, and the characters hadn't been one dimensional, it might have had a chance to come together with the characters developing into beings I could truly care about. I really wish I could say I enjoyed this book more than I did since the author is so popular, his books and writing adored by many more people than I have fingers and toes. But I found it tedious, and I found it to be aimless too much of the time when I was aiming to be entertained by a story with depth. It is a companion book to American Gods, but can be read as a standalone. If you enjoyed other books by Gaiman, you'll probably enjoy this one, too. And I will be happy that you did, but it wasn't for me. ...more \"U svakom zivotu\", zapoceo je, \"mora pasti pokoja kap kise. Casa meda iste casu zuci.\" \"Gdje ima smijeha,\" pridometnuo je Spider, \"bude i placa.\" :D Ma svi razgovori Grahama i Spidera u poslovicama su uzivancija... Za razliku od podosta ozbiljnih Bogova (iako su ona slavenska bozanstva isto za umrijet od smijeha), Decki su bas u sasavom tonu s naivnim zapletom koji zapravo i nije u fokusu. Vise do izrazaja mi dolazi taj prekrasni stil, to me okupira da ne stignem misliti na nista drugo! Gaiman me \"U svakom zivotu\", zapoceo je, \"mora pasti pokoja kap kise. Casa meda iste casu zuci.\" \"Gdje ima smijeha,\" pridometnuo je Spider, \"bude i placa.\" :D Ma svi razgovori Grahama i Spidera u poslovicama su uzivancija... Za razliku od podosta ozbiljnih Bogova (iako su ona slavenska bozanstva isto za umrijet od smijeha), Decki su bas u sasavom tonu s naivnim zapletom koji zapravo i nije u fokusu. Vise do izrazaja mi dolazi taj prekrasni stil, to me okupira da ne stignem misliti na nista drugo! Gaiman me inace zna raznjeziti na uvodu ili oprostaju, tako da od njega ocekujem poeziju. Obicno se zagrijem za dva ili tri lika i to ako je rijec o epskim sagama, ali pratiti sudbine svih u Deckima mi je bilo jednako interesantno. Uspjela sam se emocionalno angazirati oko svake osobe :) Ma zao mi je da je gotovo... U opsjednutoj Gaiman fazi sam i ostala mi dva romancica. Kako dalje? Jedva cekam Bogove na TV-u... ...more To be quite honest with you, I didn't particularly like the first third of this book. It's got nothing to do with the way it's written (Neil Gaiman is as funny and imaginative as ever), it was something else. The things is, I'm a sucker for sibling relationships and I was pleasantly surprised to find one in this book. But Spider and Fat Charlie spend the first half of this book arguing and generally making each others lives hell and it just made me uncomfortable. There were other things too, lik To be quite honest with you, I didn't particularly like the first third of this book. It's got nothing to do with the way it's written (Neil Gaiman is as funny and imaginative as ever), it was something else. The things is, I'm a sucker for sibling relationships and I was pleasantly surprised to find one in this book. But Spider and Fat Charlie spend the first half of this book arguing and generally making each others lives hell and it just made me uncomfortable. There were other things too, like Charlies personality and the plot itself, while not being bad at all, they just didn't appeal to me that greatly. HOWEVER, I continued reading and I am now unbelievably happy I did. After, well, not half the book, but almost, the plot changes. To me it seems as if the books has got two different stories in it, the story of Spider and Charlie's relationship and then the story of everything else. Everything else takes over half way through the book, and it gets really interesting. It also forces Charlie and Spider to start acting like brothers and working together instead of tearing each other apart, and that made me like especially Fat Charlie a lot more. What really turned this book around for me, though, was the ending. I sit here, a day after finishing it, with a feeling of absolute satisfaction. I rarely get that from a book, sure I've read books with brilliant, fantastic endings, books that ended exactly the way I wanted them to, but never one that left me so satisfied on all fronts. I believe the biggest contributive to this feeling is Charlie. The one and only. He undergoes some serious changes in the book, and comes out on the other side as one of my favourite characters in fiction. His change from someone I sort of dislike, to someone I utterly love is so complete, and so brilliantly done, that I can't help but feel satisfied. This is why in the end it gets 4 stars. It wasn't perfect, perhaps, but it was still fantastic. Oh, and perhaps I should mention, I listened to some of the audiobook at one point, and while I'm not usually a fan of this, I was pleased I did it, because it helped me sort out my \"inner Spider\" voice. I'd gotten the way he talks completely wrong, and I liked him a lot better when I got it right. (I know it sounds that weird it should matter that much, but there was really quite a difference between my Spider and the audiobook's Spider. So I can recommend that!) ...more a great follow up to American Gods Some people might prefer American Gods, with that epic tone, but I prefer Anansi Boys, and not just because it's entertaining and lighthearted, but because it seems to have been pulled off much more smoothly. Finally, Gaiman is writing about someone more like himself than Shadow was- a person who lives in England having adventures in America. Though Fat Charlie is American by origin, he's very British, and I guess that just made it easier for Gaiman because he took it and ran with it and everyth Some people might prefer American Gods, with that epic tone, but I prefer Anansi Boys, and not just because it's entertaining and lighthearted, but because it seems to have been pulled off much more smoothly. Finally, Gaiman is writing about someone more like himself than Shadow was- a person who lives in England having adventures in America. Though Fat Charlie is American by origin, he's very British, and I guess that just made it easier for Gaiman because he took it and ran with it and everything was simply fantastic. It also feels a lot more like he's actually writing about the America I know. In its way, this book is just as stunningly creative as American Gods-- the animal-people who represent the ancient African gods are excellent, especially, of course, Tiger. Just as creative are the characters, who are much easier to care for than any of the ones in Gods . They get into hopelessly awkward situations and seem so real that you can't help but be on their side. Even the villain is likable, in a nasty sort of way. Finally, these modern-fantasy-splotched-in-alongside-the-real-world books are simply my favorite kind of fantasy novel. You can't get away with high fantasy anymore, really. The genre's been done to death over the last fifty years, and unless we want to tire it out completely, there are a bunch of authors who might want to give it a rest. Much more enjoyable, to me, are the fantasy novels that manage to be straight-up fantasy without having elves or castles or swords of any kind in them-- they're often ten times as creative, much fresher, and a lot more fun to read. Other books like this, from both youth and adult fiction, include Dogsbody by Diana Wynne Jones, the not-quite-fantasy-but-silly-enough-to-count Thursday Next and Jack Spratt novels by Jasper Fforde, and, on a slightly different note, the Terry Pratchett Discworld series, which takes every sentence and uses it to make fun of high fantasy and, more recently, of modern naily life. The Watch mini-series is particularly good at this. At any rate, I simply liked Anansi Boys a lot more. It felt like a runner who'd had time to stretch their legs a bit and get into a rhythm. ...more Once again Gaiman has left me feeling unsure of whatever it is that I just read. He always does this. It's always good, but I would never be able to explain it. I was also confused for a very long time waiting for it to connect with American Gods in some way other than both of them having gods. Maybe it did and it's just been so long I didn't recognize it. Eventually I just decided they didn't really have much to do with one another and moved along. Can anyone explain the connection between the b Once again Gaiman has left me feeling unsure of whatever it is that I just read. He always does this. It's always good, but I would never be able to explain it. I was also confused for a very long time waiting for it to connect with American Gods in some way other than both of them having gods. Maybe it did and it's just been so long I didn't recognize it. Eventually I just decided they didn't really have much to do with one another and moved along. Can anyone explain the connection between the books so I don't have to go dive back in? ...more Kao \u0161to napisah ranije tokom \u010ditanja, knjiga mi je godinama stajala na polici. Valjda sam iz nekog razloga mislio da mi se ne\u0107e dopasti. I ba\u0161 sam pogre\u0161io. S jedne strane, neopravdano je skupljala pra\u0161inu. S druge strane, drago mi je \u0161to sam je tek sada pro\u010ditao, jer me je podsetila kakav je Gejmen bio pre nego \u0161to je upao u ma\u0161inu za mlevenje pri\u010da u pare (Okean koji se pisan tako da, ako je mogu\u0107e, bude adaptiran u film, ili nesre\u0107na Trigger Warning, koja je, uz svega par izuzetaka, kao zbirk Kao \u0161to napisah ranije tokom \u010ditanja, knjiga mi je godinama stajala na polici. Valjda sam iz nekog razloga mislio da mi se ne\u0107e dopasti. I ba\u0161 sam pogre\u0161io. S jedne strane, neopravdano je skupljala pra\u0161inu. S druge strane, drago mi je \u0161to sam je tek sada pro\u010ditao, jer me je podsetila kakav je Gejmen bio pre nego \u0161to je upao u ma\u0161inu za mlevenje pri\u010da u pare (Okean koji se pisan tako da, ako je mogu\u0107e, bude adaptiran u film, ili nesre\u0107na Trigger Warning, koja je, uz svega par izuzetaka, kao zbirka knji\u017eevnih otpadaka). Sjajna pri\u010da, virtuozno napisana, vrcavo, lagano, dinami\u010dno - kako je to ve\u0107 Gejmen umeO. ...more Magic. A special kind of magic, the dark delicious sly kind of magic, where magic things come from places you won't expect, like old ladies' mutterings and crumpled feathers, where spiders are men and men are spiders and the old gods are animals and fight for the stories, and where Fat Charlie has stepped into it all simply because he got a little drunk, because his fianc\u00e9 was late for dinner. Lesson: drink to see magic. Actually, no, it started earlier than that, but I won't tell you. This book Magic. A special kind of magic, the dark delicious sly kind of magic, where magic things come from places you won't expect, like old ladies' mutterings and crumpled feathers, where spiders are men and men are spiders and the old gods are animals and fight for the stories, and where Fat Charlie has stepped into it all simply because he got a little drunk, because his fianc\u00e9 was late for dinner. Lesson: drink to see magic. Actually, no, it started earlier than that, but I won't tell you. This book is very funny in places, but it won't make you laugh, it will make you giggle forever. And the best part about it is, you never know what happens next. ...more This book didn't really do it for me. I found it a bit all over the place and I felt that the humor missed the mark. Anansi Boys is loosely related to American Gods , but each book stands alone and tells an independent story. The main connection is that Anansi is one of the gods we meet in American Gods , often referred to as Mr. Nancy. Anansi himself doesn\u2019t really show up in Anansi Boys all that much, but he\u2019s referred to a great deal and several stories are told about him. Our main character is Charlie, Anansi\u2019s son, who is quite ordinary, shy, and easily intimidated. At the beginning of the book, we read abo Anansi Boys is loosely related to American Gods , but each book stands alone and tells an independent story. The main connection is that Anansi is one of the gods we meet in American Gods , often referred to as Mr. Nancy. Anansi himself doesn\u2019t really show up in Anansi Boys all that much, but he\u2019s referred to a great deal and several stories are told about him. Our main character is Charlie, Anansi\u2019s son, who is quite ordinary, shy, and easily intimidated. At the beginning of the book, we read about Charlie\u2019s childhood and the things his father Anansi did to embarrass him. Before long, we catch up to Charlie as he\u2019s living his adult life, which is quite an ordinary life. Then, of course, something happens, and Charlie\u2019s life starts to get pretty strange and not very pleasant. Charlie was a funny and interesting character. He starts off kind of spineless, and I was afraid he would get annoying, but he slowly started to get more assertive. The story was interesting. Between the blatant foreshadowing and the hints, I can\u2019t say anything about the story was terribly surprising, but it held my interest. Toward the end, I thought some things happened that stretched the boundaries of credibility, even considering the subject matter. I was really enjoying the book up to a point, but I started feeling a little less enthusiastic by the end. This had a very different tone than American Gods . I enjoyed both books, but for different reasons. By comparison, I thought American Gods was darker, meatier, and more serious. Anansi Boys was lighter, hilariously funny at times, and sometimes downright silly. I couldn\u2019t really say which one I liked best. During the first half of this book, I would have said I liked Anansi Boys better. Now that I\u2019ve finished it, I\u2019m leaning toward American Gods . ...more I had this 1st edition hardcover novel lying about for some time and only after recently building some new bookshelves I discovered books I had bought but forgotten about. Having read this book, which was not a strain at all because Gaimans prose makes you have a fairly easy read, I found that my giving this novel to my youngest daughter in Dutch something I should have waited with. She loved the story about star who fell to earth but was clearly to young for a tale this complex. Meaning that thi I had this 1st edition hardcover novel lying about for some time and only after recently building some new bookshelves I discovered books I had bought but forgotten about. Having read this book, which was not a strain at all because Gaimans prose makes you have a fairly easy read, I found that my giving this novel to my youngest daughter in Dutch something I should have waited with. She loved the story about star who fell to earth but was clearly to young for a tale this complex. Meaning that this Gaiman novel clearly is not meant for the younger fantasy reader, you need some more personal development to really appreciate this novel. I loved the idea of the young man finding out that he was actually a son of a God, his discovery of his split personality and the soapy aspects of the tale about a family rediscovering each other. Gaimans immorality tale is beautifully told and is funny as well. What I liked best was the writers love for all his characters even if they were less that good. Now I have to find American Gods in a decent copy, just because this one made reading fun. ...more It is time to admit I am not going to finish this book. It sat next to my bed with the spine cracked open to chapter two for I don't know how many months without my even touching it. The reason why is very simple: I cannot stand the protagonist, Fat Charlie. He is an utter drip. He's winging, and useless, and sort of ill-willed about it. I got far enough in to meet the second major character, Spider, who is incredibly obnoxious , at which point I put the book down for however many months it's bee It is time to admit I am not going to finish this book. It sat next to my bed with the spine cracked open to chapter two for I don't know how many months without my even touching it. The reason why is very simple: I cannot stand the protagonist, Fat Charlie. He is an utter drip. He's winging, and useless, and sort of ill-willed about it. I got far enough in to meet the second major character, Spider, who is incredibly obnoxious , at which point I put the book down for however many months it's been. Well, I give up. You have defeated me, book. I'm sorry, I thought I would like you. You seemed promising. But I have to care about someone in the book to keep reading, and I don't. ...more Fat Charlie was dubbed so by his dad when just a chubby child. Unfortunately even though he shed the pounds the name stuck. Many years later Fat Charlie is living an unremarkable life, with a crappy job and a girlfriend who insists on making him \"wait until marriage\". When Charlie's dad dies he learns some amazingly unbelievable things and his boring life is forever changed. This one has a lot of wit and was just offbeat enough to hold my attention. Charlie is an every-guy sort of character who i Fat Charlie was dubbed so by his dad when just a chubby child. Unfortunately even though he shed the pounds the name stuck. Many years later Fat Charlie is living an unremarkable life, with a crappy job and a girlfriend who insists on making him \"wait until marriage\". When Charlie's dad dies he learns some amazingly unbelievable things and his boring life is forever changed. This one has a lot of wit and was just offbeat enough to hold my attention. Charlie is an every-guy sort of character who is easy to like as he bumbles his way through some very odd changes in his life. The book is populated with interesting people and takes a lot of twists and turns that aren't expected. Gaiman wrote it and it reads like a twisted fairy-tale so how can you go wrong with that? ...more Fat Charlie's father dies while singing karioke. Soon afterward, Charlie meets Spider, his previously unknown brother. Spider proceeds to wreck Charlie's life in humorous ways. Did I mention Charlie's dad was Anansi, the spider god? You'd think I would have mentioned that first. My interest in Neil Gaiman led me to discover Wodehouse and this book really show's Wodehouse's influence on Gaiman. Fat Charlie and Spider's relationship is straight out of a Wodehouse book. It's not hard to imagine Fat Fat Charlie's father dies while singing karioke. Soon afterward, Charlie meets Spider, his previously unknown brother. Spider proceeds to wreck Charlie's life in humorous ways. Did I mention Charlie's dad was Anansi, the spider god? You'd think I would have mentioned that first. My interest in Neil Gaiman led me to discover Wodehouse and this book really show's Wodehouse's influence on Gaiman. Fat Charlie and Spider's relationship is straight out of a Wodehouse book. It's not hard to imagine Fat Charlie or Spider hanging out at the Drone's club. ...more", "Title": "Anansi Boys"},
