{"Comments": "You might think of me as a cynic.<---F> If you\u2019re being kind, that is</---F>. I\u2019m the one that says \u2019Seriously?\u2019 when being told of some tragic event--like someone would actually make up the horrific thing. I\u2019m the one that views the whole process of death--the telling,<---M> the grieving</---M>, the service of any kind, the \u2019after\u2019-- as playing out like I\u2019m in a soap opera bubble. Which camera should I look into when I break down again? Strike one against me. Strike Two: I've never been much of a fan of <---A>Joan Didion</---A>... I You might think of me as a cynic. If you\u2019re being kind, that is. I\u2019m the one that says \u2019Seriously?\u2019 when being told of some tragic event--like someone would actually make up the horrific thing. I\u2019m the one that views the whole process of death--the telling, the grieving, the service of any kind, the \u2019after\u2019-- as playing out like I\u2019m in a soap opera bubble. Which camera should I look into when I break down again? Strike one against me. Strike Two: I've never been much of a fan of Joan Didion... I think it began in college\u2026being forced to read Why I Write and On Keeping a Notebook . I didn\u2019t enjoy being told, essay-like, how I should go about writing. It\u2019s not my thing. That didn\u2019t help that urge to rebel that goes along with college either. My Didion backlash was further proven when Up Close and Personal came out. Wait, you want to add Jessica Savitch to the list? Awww. Hell no. It just wasn\u2019t happening. Strike Three (??): Maurice bought this for me a few Christmases ago. I winced, like I usually did when receiving a book from him. Must I relive the college debacle? I can\u2019t just NOT read it, because he WILL grill me on it. Buck up, Kim\u2026 read the damn thing already. This was 5 years ago and I just recently found it in the back of the bookshelf. I did end up reading it then\u2026 and I thanked Maurice time and again for giving me such a gift. Because, that\u2019s what it truly was. Words can hold such extraordinary power.. So, here\u2019s an enigma: Can cynics really believe in magical thinking? What is magical thinking anyway? I mean\u2026 yeah, I\u2019ve read the Psychology Today articles, I\u2019ve gone to freedictionary.com. Is it something that can actually be described or do you need to experience to fully get it? Talk to me. See, because now I\u2019m either going crazy or I\u2019m seeing the signs. I\u2019m remembering in distorted ways\u2026 did that really happen or is my head just trying to make me believe\u2026 am I replaying the events because I\u2019m looking for clues? Maurice is dead. I can type that. I can be matter-of-fact about it via keyboard. Hell, I can put it in a damn book review. But, you get me to actually SAY the words and I\u2019m using the ol\u2019 \u2018Maurice has passed\u2019, \u2018Maurice is gone\u2019, anything but the \u2018D\u2019 word. Like it may make it less real. \u201cIn the midst of life we are in death.\u201d Not just some awesome Smiths lyrics\u2026 but a common graveside prayer--and the rest? \u201cEarth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust.\u201d Still looking for clues. As I\u2019m reading the first few pages of TYOMT again, I\u2019m struck at how similar the process is: \u201c Later I realized that I must have repeated the details of what happened to everyone who came to the house in those first weeks, all those friends and relatives who brought food and made drinks and laid out plates on the dining room table for however many people were around at lunch or dinner time, all those who picked up the plates and froze the leftovers and ran the dishwasher and filled our (I could not yet think \u2018my\u2019) otherwise empty house even after I had gone into the bedroom (our bedroom, the one in which still lay on a sofa a faded terrycloth XL robe bought in the 1970s at Richard Carroll in Beverly Hills) and shut the door. Those moments when I was abruptly overtaken by exhaustion are what I remember most clearly about the first days and weeks. I have no memory of telling anyone the details, but I must have done so, because everyone seemed to know them.\u201d This book is full of this type of sameness. Two peas in a pod, Joan and I. I may not be keeping his shoes because when he comes home he might need them (like Joan) but I\u2019m still hanging on to that bottle of Moxie in the fridge\u2026I\u2019m still wondering if him telling me that morning that he wanted to hear my voice because it soothed him was really him telling me that I should have\u2026 what? What could I have done? Joan has other tragedies\u2026 memories that stretch out to before I was born. She is insightful in such creative, tenacious, concise ways that sometimes I just want to curse her for bringing me there\u2026 for making me believe and start to question every action/memory/event of the last 20 years looking for the damn signs\u2026 because they were there, right? In the midst of life we are in death. Don\u2019t fucking forget that. ...more Disclaimer: Being fresh into the grieving process myself, you may want to skip this review and head onto others. Undoubtedly I'll purge my grief in a review about a book on grief. You've been warned. Right off the top I will say this for the book: raw, powerful, honest, amazing. If you have any interest in the grief process, READ THIS BOOK. The only criticism that I might have is that there's a lot of name dropping. Insert famous names and some fancy locations (Beverly Hills, Malibu), talk about u Disclaimer: Being fresh into the grieving process myself, you may want to skip this review and head onto others. Undoubtedly I'll purge my grief in a review about a book on grief. You've been warned. Right off the top I will say this for the book: raw, powerful, honest, amazing. If you have any interest in the grief process, READ THIS BOOK. The only criticism that I might have is that there's a lot of name dropping. Insert famous names and some fancy locations (Beverly Hills, Malibu), talk about using fine china, fancy bathrobes from some store I'll never set foot in... Normally, that would drive me mad. (rich or poor, like that one book says, everybody poops!) However, I never felt with her that the name dropping was pretentious, or snobbish. The people and places she named were simply a part of her life, so who am I to hold that against her? Wealth, while it may provide many a luxury, cannot insulate you from death, from grief. Who said death was the great equalizer? It is, truly. Didion's husband died very suddenly of a heart attack. My mother died (weeks ago) slowly of cancer. Very different circumstances. The link is the loss. Didion writes this about death after a long illness (experienced with others in her life): In each of those cases the phrase, \"after a long illness\" would have seemed to apply, trailing its misleading suggestion of release, relief, resolution. Yet having seen the picture (impending death) in no way deflected, when it came, the swift empty loss of the actual event. I mostly agree with her. But in full disclosure, there was relief for me. I would not have to watch my mom waste away for weeks (MONTHS!) in a nursing home. Release? Yes and no. Resolution? No way. After my mom died, I heard multiple times how very strong I was. What I was supposed to be doing, what should I be saying? Did they think I was callous for not weeping at the funeral? Did they think I was putting on a front? Truth be told, my grieving began 18 months prior, the minute the surgeon came out and told me she had small cell lung cancer. I knew what that meant for her - death. My grief began then, at that moment. It continued each time we'd go to chemo or when she needed a blood transfusion. It continued when she lost her hair. It continued when tumors spread onto the nerves of her arm and she could no longer use it; not to put on earrings, not to hold a cup, not to pick up her grandson. One night, after having dinner at her house, I wept the entire way home, realizing that the number of meals she'd make for me were limited. I knew what was coming. When she died, even though I saw it coming, it was there, just as Didion says, the swift empty loss. She writes about her own personal grieving process, her struggles to resolve his death in her mind. She writes of how very unique it is to each situation, loss of a parent versus the loss of a spouse. These sentences ring very true: Grief, when it comes, is nothing we expect it to be. Grief turns out to be a place none of us know until we reach it. Didion writes about the concept of grief crashing or rolling in like waves. Lots of psychologists speak of it. The coping information Hospice sent me also mentioned \"waves\" of grief. For me, waves isn't quite right. I'll call them grief grenades. Waves you can see, you can hear, you feel them building and you can tell when they'll break. My grief grenades have hit at moments when I least expect it. Examples: walking in the store and seeing my mom's favorite brand of cookies prominently displayed on the endcap. Hearing on the news that 58 year old so and so died after a battle with cancer. Deciding to purge out e-mail contacts, I see her name. Hospice calling on my birthday to see how I am holding up, instead of a call from her, singing \"Happy Birthday\" off key. Swift empty loss. In one part of the book Didion writes of getting rid of clothing that belonged to her husband. She cannot bring herself to part with his shoes, in case he needs them when he comes back. (magical thinking, indeed!) There were things of my mom's I could not part with. Silly things. For instance, I kept a pair of her earrings that I had longed to throw away for the last few years. They were cheap, old clip-ons, so worn that the color had been rubbed off half the surface. I'd get so pissed when she wore them! Did she not see that they were worn out and looked tacky as hell? However, those earrings I have saved in a small box of other things that will remind me of her. Mind you, I'm certain she's not coming back. I saw her die. I dressed her body. Her cremated remains sit 3 feet away from me on a shelf until we have a beautiful summer day and I can place her ashes into the water at the lake. But I cannot bring myself to get rid of these things: those damn earrings. her favorite coffee cup (bright yellow sunshine cup purchased on a trip she took to Florida.), a potato masher from 1972, the nightgown she wore often in the weeks before she died. a pair of her jeans, ironed, of course, with the crease down the front. Unlike Didion, who could live among the things that belonged to her husband, I had to empty my mom's apartment. After her death, I immersed myself in this task. Some of it was easy. Trash out. Food that I won't use to food bank. I set up boxes for her brothers, sisters and mom, things she wanted them to have, things I thought they'd like to have as mementos. Then it gets tricky. All the furniture, boxes of clothes, the toaster... I did not want to end up on an episode of Hoarders. I tried to be practical and donate what I could, but there is still a corner in my basement full of her things. (A friend of mine said her garage is still full of her mother's things 5 years later!) When the last item of her furniture was lugged out of the apartment, I watched them load it into a truck and I sat in her empty apartment and wept. I wept as I shut the door for the last time. Didion on the other hand, comes home, sleeps in the same bed, sees his chair, his stuff, always there. A year after she dies, she goes to the chair where he took his last breath, and looks at the pile of books and magazines he'd been thumbing through prior to his death. How does that mess with your grief process? Does it make it easier? Worse? In my mind as I moved things out I could say I was simply moving her into a new apartment. Magical thinking. Didion kept her husband's shoes. Magical thinking. For us, and for those we love who are grieving, it is so very important to recognize and appreciate the fact that we all grieve in a unique fashion. Didion points to literature on proper grieving etiquette, how our culture expects us to behave, even giving us time lines for the process. (be stoic! take a year and then get on with it, already!) Many \"great\" minds have discussed the process of grief leading to resolution, healing. It's not that simple. If I may quote another author, Anne Lamott: \"You will lose someone you can\u2019t live without,and your heart will be badly broken, and the bad news is that you never completely get over the loss of your beloved. But this is also the good news. They live forever in your broken heart that doesn\u2019t seal back up. And you come through. It\u2019s like having a broken leg that never heals perfectly\u2014that still hurts when the weather gets cold, but you learn to dance with the limp.\" A year after she loses her husband, Didion has not found resolution. She worries about his memory fading in her mind, of not keeping him \"alive\". She writes: I know why we try to keep the dead alive: we try to keep them alive in order to keep them with us. I also know that if we are to live ourselves there comes a point at which we must relinquish the dead., let them go, keep them dead. Let them become the photograph on the table. Let go of them in the water. In other words, resolution may never come, but we must learn to dance with the limp. ...more I hated this book. It is the reason I instituted my \"100 pages\" policy (if it's not promising 100 pages in, I will no longer waste my time on it). So within the 100 pages I did read, all I got from Didion was that she and her husband used to live a fabulous life and they know a lot of famous people. She spoke of the '60s as a time when \"everyone\" was flying from LA to San Francisco for dinner. Um, no, actually, \"everyone\" wasn't doing that then and they're not doing it now. Instead of saying \"ou I hated this book. It is the reason I instituted my \"100 pages\" policy (if it's not promising 100 pages in, I will no longer waste my time on it). So within the 100 pages I did read, all I got from Didion was that she and her husband used to live a fabulous life and they know a lot of famous people. She spoke of the '60s as a time when \"everyone\" was flying from LA to San Francisco for dinner. Um, no, actually, \"everyone\" wasn't doing that then and they're not doing it now. Instead of saying \"our friend so and so gave the eulogy at my husband's funeral,\" she said, \"The great essayist David Halberstam.\" What does that add to the story? I found only brief spots of actual grief for Didion's husband and daughter, but they weren't enough to overpower my loathing for the author and her self-importance. ...more This is a hard book for me to review, as I know my own personal experience will be foremost. A big thank you to a wonderful friend who sent this to me after the loss of my own partner three weeks ago. So yes, this book is about grief and loss. It is Didion's own personal journey after the loss of her husband. The first lines in her memoir begin... \"Life changes fast. Life changes in an instant. You sit down to dinner and life as you know it ends. The question of self-pity.\" Those words resonated with This is a hard book for me to review, as I know my own personal experience will be foremost. A big thank you to a wonderful friend who sent this to me after the loss of my own partner three weeks ago. So yes, this book is about grief and loss. It is Didion's own personal journey after the loss of her husband. The first lines in her memoir begin... \"Life changes fast. Life changes in an instant. You sit down to dinner and life as you know it ends. The question of self-pity.\" Those words resonated with me profoundly. She goes on to describe that grief is very different than loss. Loss can be the death of someone very close which causes sadness, pain, loneliness, etc., but still there is a distance. Still there is an ability to plan and remember things. Grief however is different, as it has no distance. She describes grief as the feeling of waves of distress, shortness of breath, and loss of memory, to name a few. I cannot say enough about how comforting that was for me. Not only did her words help me understand what was happening to me now, but also what I may experience in the future. While everyone responds to grief differently, there are some general \"truisms.\" One's that Didion has found not only from personal experience, but research as well. I was reminded of Elisabeth Kubler-Ross, and her book on the five stages of death. What may seem the normal progression of feelings are often felt in no particular order or time. I had never read Joan Didion before, so I did a little research on her writing. She was born way before social media, and the tell-all confessional types of writing seen today. When she wrote this in 2005, critics accused her of voyeurism. The experience of mourning was still believed to be private, and most thought it should remain that way. I find it interesting that this is the only piece I found missing from parts of her memoir. In much of this book she has written more of the facts of her experience than her feelings. To think, 10 years ago this was seen as voyeurism? And yet, in keeping my own journal, I notice much of it is a recording of facts. Maybe in some ways one's emotions shut down as the shock to the body is foremost. I can only wonder in Didion's case, this coupled with the times in which she wrote, how explosive such details must have been. I cannot help but feel Didion helped pave the way for many authors to reveal deeper emotions. For me, this sometimes factual account did not take away from the experience that is this book. I highly recommend this to anyone who is going through a grieving process, or is interested in the affects grieving produces. ...more \u201cIt occurs to me that we allow ourselves to imagine only such messages as we need to survive.\u201d \u2015 Joan Didion, <+++>The Year of Magical Thinking</+++> In four days it will be one year since my father-in-law died in an accidental shooting. He had recently turned 60 and recently celebrated his 40th wedding anniversary. In 18 days it will be four years since my older brother died suddenly in a Back Hawk crash in Germany. He was closing in on his 40th birthday. He was preparing to land . I had two father-figures i \u201cIt occurs to me that we allow ourselves to imagine only such messages as we need to survive.\u201d \u2015 Joan Didion, <+++>The Year of Magical Thinking</+++> In four days it will be one year since my father-in-law died in an accidental shooting. He had recently turned 60 and recently celebrated his 40th wedding anniversary. In 18 days it will be four years since my older brother died suddenly in a Back Hawk crash in Germany. He was closing in on his 40th birthday. He was preparing to land . I had two father-figures in my life. I also had two brothers. I lost one of each pair suddenly - dramatically. I've watched my wife struggle with the loss of her father. I've watched my mother-in-law struggle with the sad death and absence of her husband. I've watched my sister-in-law and her kids struggle with the death of their husband and father. I've watched my parents, my siblings. I have grieved much myself for these two good men. I was reading when they died. I know this. When my father-in-law died I was reading Falconer . When my brother died I was reading This Is Water . After their deaths I couldn't read for weeks, and struggled with reading for months. I was in prison. I was drowning in a water I could neither see nor understand. Reading Didion's sharp, sometimes funny, but always clear and precise take on her husband's death and her daughter's illness ... my experience is reflected. Not exactly. I'm no Joan Didion and my relationship with both my father-in-law and my brother are mine. However, Didion captures in the net of her prose the essence of grief, tragedy, loss, coping, remembering. Her memoir makes me wonder how it is even possible that someone could both feel a semblance of what I feel and capture all the sad glitters, glints and mudgyness of mourning at the same time. It takes a helluva writer. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ...more Hated it, hated it, hated it- but kept reading with the hope that all my pain and suffering would somehow be worth it in the end. It wasn't. The same self-pitying, whiney, depressing, self-important sentiments are basically repeated over and over again only with different words. Joan Didion can obviously write well, but she should have left this cathartic piece in her closet. And I'm not averse to reading novels that deal with grief. This one was just way too self-indulgent and redundant for me. Hated it, hated it, hated it- but kept reading with the hope that all my pain and suffering would somehow be worth it in the end. It wasn't. The same self-pitying, whiney, depressing, self-important sentiments are basically repeated over and over again only with different words. Joan Didion can obviously write well, but she should have left this cathartic piece in her closet. And I'm not averse to reading novels that deal with grief. This one was just way too self-indulgent and redundant for me. And Didion's pervasive name-dropping and repeated descriptions of her wealth and fame just made me hate the book even more. ...more Like Johnny Rotten said during their last (in the universe where they never would re-form again in the mid-90's) show, \"Do you ever feel like you've been cheated?\" I do Johnny, I do. I feel cheated by this book. I bought it because it cost me a dollar. I wasn't interested in it that much. I finally picked it up to read because I wanted to write a review about how pathetic and whiny it was. I thought I'd say something about how now that baby-boomers are starting to kick the bucket they want a fuc Like Johnny Rotten said during their last (in the universe where they never would re-form again in the mid-90's) show, \"Do you ever feel like you've been cheated?\" I do Johnny, I do. I feel cheated by this book. I bought it because it cost me a dollar. I wasn't interested in it that much. I finally picked it up to read because I wanted to write a review about how pathetic and whiny it was. I thought I'd say something about how now that baby-boomers are starting to kick the bucket they want a fucking monopoly on death too, as if they invented grieving and no one before them could have possibly grieved like they do. Or maybe point out that we really don't need another memoir about someone dying and the way that the surviving family member found some shallow platitude to be true and now feels the need to share it. (i.e., \"Everyone said life goes on, but I had to cry for awhile and then write a three hundred page book making it seem like I was the first person in the history of the whole world to have a parent die before realizing that 'hey it's true', and life does go on especially with the nice advance I got from the book deal. Thank you Random House!!\") But no, I don't get to attack Joan Didion. And part of me so wanted to. Instead of finding her whiny, or annoying, or exploitive or whatever I find that I have quite a bit of respect for her. Other's apparently have had trouble with some of the name dropping that Didion does. Yes she does a lot of name dropping, her and her late husbands friends happen to be house-hold names (if you're household is bookish, maybe yours isn't, and there is nothing wrong with that). And maybe she does name drop the names of expensive hotels and restaurants she normally at in with her John Gregory Dunne, and maybe some people would rather have elaborate descriptions of the decor of these places then her just saying she ate there, or details about what so-and-so said at her husbands funeral, and not just that he or she spoke at it. But that's missing the point and if she had done that I would have been or so happy because I'd be writing a review right now about the banality of memoirs and their narcissistic egoism that only serves to make the author and publisher some dollars. Instead Didion is really investigating and putting to paper the way that memory and perception work under the duress of grief. The snapshots of memory of a loved one don't necessarily contain any details about the table clothes of a favorite restaurant, but the place itself, it's name where it was located is a memory land mine of the deceased, waiting to go off and spiral out to other memories at it's mere mention. This book deals with the irrational element of grief so well. It captures the mundane little things that can emotionally paralyze a person, and it's written from that place which our society would rather not acknowledge and that people should 'just get over', and there is no happy ending to the book, there is no climatic cathartic moment. I've lost where I was going I think. Oh well. ...more \"you sit down to dinner and life as you know it ends. the question of self-pity.\" i picked up this book and read it knowing nothing more than those two short lines. those two lines which become the refrain of the memoir. i think i must have been drawn to it intuitively, i needed to read this book when i did. didion's memoir records her thoughts, feelings and actions during the year following her husband's death and her daughter's near-death hospitalizations (i learned later that after the book wa \"you sit down to dinner and life as you know it ends. the question of self-pity.\" i picked up this book and read it knowing nothing more than those two short lines. those two lines which become the refrain of the memoir. i think i must have been drawn to it intuitively, i needed to read this book when i did. didion's memoir records her thoughts, feelings and actions during the year following her husband's death and her daughter's near-death hospitalizations (i learned later that after the book was published her daughter did die, a fact which is incorporated into the broadway play adaptation). there is nothing sentimental about this memoir, though it easily could be. instead, the memoir feels like a combination of reading didion's diary and also following her every action. she tells us of every thing she does to try to understand her husband's death and daughter's illness, relying primarily on science for her answers, which she does not find. this is not a self-help book. it did not teach me how to properly grieve. instead, it showed me how one woman, in her own particular circumstances, handled her grieving, which sometimes included not really handling it at all. i needed to read this book when i did and i would recommend it to anyone who has ever experienced a profound loss from which you may not have fully healed. this won't teach you how to heal but it may make you feel less alone and less crazy when life as you know it ends and you begin that insane plunge into the question of self-pity. ...more To call Joan Didion cold or even heartless - true as it may be in the light of The Year of Magical Thinking , this monument to the analytical dissection of grief - is itself a cold and heartless condemnation. We all grieve in our own way. This is hers. After losing numerous family members suddenly and too soon, Didion then lost her husband and daughter within the span of a year. This book is her cathartic contemplation of that loss. Heartrending, yes occasionally. Heartwarming, no never. Didion's To call Joan Didion cold or even heartless - true as it may be in the light of The Year of Magical Thinking , this monument to the analytical dissection of grief - is itself a cold and heartless condemnation. We all grieve in our own way. This is hers. After losing numerous family members suddenly and too soon, Didion then lost her husband and daughter within the span of a year. This book is her cathartic contemplation of that loss. Heartrending, yes occasionally. Heartwarming, no never. Didion's demeanor is all too cerebral. It is as if she has educated herself above emotion. Certainly it can be said that some educate themselves beyond their own well-being. In this case, we see a mind so removed from the everyday reality of man as to answer \"a motherless child\" instead of \"a nut\" when asked to fill in the blank for \"Sometimes you feel like ____.\" The result, when pushed to produce a book about grieving for loved ones, is an academic's deconstruction. No, it is not without feeling, she is still human after all, but stoicism is her strongest suit. Beyond the almost biting cynicism you get beautiful language, great observations and insights to, let's call it, a different kind of emotion. I assume, and sincerely hope, she never reads reviews like this. She shouldn't care what snarky assholes think of her work, not this work and not after the experiences she went through that brought it about. One who suffers so many visits from Death should not give two shits or even one single flying fuck what the rest of the world thinks. ...more Joan Didion's daughter Quintana fell gravely ill and was hospitalized with a serious infection. She was placed in a medical coma and put on life support. Only weeks later, Joan's husband, John Dunne, was speaking with her from their living room after visiting their daughter in the hospital, stopped mid-sentence and keeled over dead on the floor of a massive coronary. Four weeks later, Quintana pulled through and revived, but only two months after that, she collapsed from a massive brain hematoma Joan Didion's daughter Quintana fell gravely ill and was hospitalized with a serious infection. She was placed in a medical coma and put on life support. Only weeks later, Joan's husband, John Dunne, was speaking with her from their living room after visiting their daughter in the hospital, stopped mid-sentence and keeled over dead on the floor of a massive coronary. Four weeks later, Quintana pulled through and revived, but only two months after that, she collapsed from a massive brain hematoma. Joan Didion documented this year in this book, which I think I heard about on NPR or somewhere, I'm not entirely sure. I know you're all going to hate me for kicking the widow when she's down, but this book was a lot less than I expected. I got through it, but I really thought it would be more about her feelings. Instead, Didion did a lot of research on grief and puts many of her findings in the book. She spends a lot of time analyzing the way things are and trying to figure out if she's behaving in a way that seems \"normal\" for your \"average widow.\" I read a review on Amazon.com that calls Joan Didion's writing as \"cool\" and perhaps lacking emotion, and I felt that way about this book. The most moving passage in the whole book was one in which she states that she realized she was in denial when she cleaned out her husband's closets, but couldn't get rid of his shoes because he would need them when he got back. I thought to myself, \"well, now we're getting somewhere\", but perhaps she didn't want to share where those painful thoughts led, because there was no indication that she picked the shoes up and flung them at the walls while sobbing in rage. And I wanted her to. I wanted her to be angry at God and everyone for putting her in this terrible situation with her husband's death and her daughter's serious illnesses. But instead, she seemed rather detached. Maybe she didn't want to share those feelings, but if that were so, she shouldn't have written a book purporting to be about that very topic. I found this book to be tremendously disappointing. ...more I am not the type of person that cries at funerals. I find crying at a funeral as constructive as trying to stop a raging river with a few paper towels and a bag of sand, nothing is achieved. Find me not callous, for I am sensitive to the recently departed and their family. It's just that...I don't know...I know there is nothing that can be done to bring back that person. Rereading the above really makes me sound like an ass so let me try it another way: death is something we all have to accept; I am not the type of person that cries at funerals. I find crying at a funeral as constructive as trying to stop a raging river with a few paper towels and a bag of sand, nothing is achieved. Find me not callous, for I am sensitive to the recently departed and their family. It's just that...I don't know...I know there is nothing that can be done to bring back that person. Rereading the above really makes me sound like an ass so let me try it another way: death is something we all have to accept; my acceptance of death comes more easily than it does for others. Take Didion for example. Here we have a very educated woman who foggily ambles through the year following her husband's (John Gregory Dunne) death. John died of a severe infarction. He had a long history of heart issues. He knew this was the way he was going to die. But even with all this evidence, his personal testimony, Didion finds the death of her husband shocking, as if she were blindsided. (I\u2019ll grant that no one wants to be in mid-conversation with someone when they die.) Now stop cursing me, let me continue. John\u2019s death in-and-of-itself does not make this story compelling. Quintana, John and Didion\u2019s daughter, and her sickness is what makes this story compelling. You see, we are all going to die. Husbands will have to bury wives, and wives will have to bury husbands. That\u2019s life. But none of us ever want to experience having to bury a child. And the way that Didion structures her story allows her to think she is grieving for her husband, when, in reality, she is telling their story to mask the fact that she is scared shitless about losing her daughter. You see, Didion does a great job of recounting the great love her and John shared for almost forty years. But some of the details that she gives the reader really only show that we (the readers) will never know what it was like to live a life with John. We\u2019ll never know what it feels like to get a free ticket on the Concorde; we\u2019ll never know what it\u2019s like to get free tickets from the NBA commissioner; basically, we\u2019ll never know what it was like to live a life of affluence and prestige. But, even without ever knowing this aspect of her life, we will all more than likely at some point fear for our child, which is the bridge that connects us to Didion. During the chaotic (brilliant narration, stylistic technique) timelines and temporal displacements via vortexes, Didion is unable to mask the fear she has of losing her only child. Unfortunately, Didion also realizes that this year of magical thinking is less about her husband and more about her daughter and closes the door for us readers over and over again just as we are about to get a real true glimpse into Didion\u2019s grief. You see, Didion was able to deal with her husband\u2019s death; what she was unable to deal with was the possibility of losing her child. But even with the absence of these concrete feelings, and the insertion of insights from countless psychiatrists and research papers about grief, the story works. Didion understands that she might be able to hide from the reader, allow for what information is passed-along to us, as long as she is able to stay one step in front of her feelings. Fortunately for us, grief and confusion and frustration and anger and misery know no boundaries. What is never said on the written page is said with infinite detail in the between spaces of events and conversations within the story. The year of which Didion chronicles is truly heart-wrenching; I\u2019m pretty sure I would not be able to cope as well as she did. But it is also full of promise, redemptions, and hope. This is a beautiful and tragic story, one that is sure to become a classic concerning death and the grieving process. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED ...more Grief is different. Grief has no distance. Grief comes in waves, paroxysms, sudden apprehensions that weaken the knees and blind the eyes and obliterate the dailiness of life. Virtually everyone who has ever experienced grief mentions this phenomenon of \u201cwaves\u201d. I cannot remember when I was last so moved by a book. It covers a sad subject, that of death with the subsequent grief and mourning periods but it amazed me with its lucidity of a woman who wrote this book a year after her husband\u2019s dea Grief is different. Grief has no distance. Grief comes in waves, paroxysms, sudden apprehensions that weaken the knees and blind the eyes and obliterate the dailiness of life. Virtually everyone who has ever experienced grief mentions this phenomenon of \u201cwaves\u201d. I cannot remember when I was last so moved by a book. It covers a sad subject, that of death with the subsequent grief and mourning periods but it amazed me with its lucidity of a woman who wrote this book a year after her husband\u2019s death. In fact I was not going to bother writing a review but then my mind took over unfortunately. I empathised with the author because my husband John died nearly two years ago. I kept a diary after his death and reading it now I realize that I was acting in a very strange way. I became very critical of couples who stayed together because they didn\u2019t love their spouse but they were terrified of a future on their own. I also found that I became more sensitive to people who were pained and probably in a way, John\u2019s death which was dreadful for me, was even more dreadful for him. He had gone. He could not return. And this is where Joan Didion magnificently displays her thoughts on how she felt when her husband John of nearly forty years died of a massive heart attack whilst they were having dinner in New York. Her writing is similar to a dream sequence. How could this have happened? Could she have prevented it? And then he was, as she believed, going to return to her. She refused to give her husband\u2019s shoes away. He would need them for the return. She could accept his going with the funeral but then she was asked whether she could donate his organs. She reflected on this but believed that as he was not hooked up to a life support system when he arrived at the hospital that was not possible; obviously they wanted John\u2019s eyes; the beautiful eyes of her husband. In parallel with this dreadful situation, her daughter Quintana had fallen ill with what was initially believed to be flu, then pneumonia and then she went into complete septic shock. This happened a week or so before the unexpected death of Joan\u2019s husband. But then we gradually learn that he had continual cardiac problems and he appeared to be aware that his own death was imminent. Nevertheless, with the aftermath of grief, one wonders, what is grief and I can only assume that it is the initial part of mourning. Joan, a year later, realises that her behaviour had been odd and I believe is coming to terms with her loss. This book was published in 2005, a year after her husband\u2019s death and I hope that she has come to terms with this and is fine. Memories will always be there but life continues. What other choice is there? Suicide. So easy to do but it can nevertheless be brutal. I was always so fascinated with Seneca\u2019s suicide. After a brief interrogation, Seneca was told to end his own life, which he did only with great difficulty. He severed his arteries, but he was so old and emaciated that the blood hardly escaped; so he asked for the hemlock that he had stashed away for just that purpose, but that had little effect either. He died only when his slaves carried him into a hot bath and he suffocated in the steam. Joan\u2019s daughter Quintana recovered but then became seriously ill a few months afterwards and so life continued with its anguish. Joan was left with the thought that she was there during her daughter\u2019s illness but she would soon have to let go as Quintana had recently married. And what was Joan going to do with her life. I still have the same problem. And the book ends beautifully: \u2026You have to feel the swell change. You had to go with the change. He [John] told me that. No eye is on the sparrow but he did tell me that. I had to look this up about the sparrow. I had no idea that it was a hymn and that God continues to watch over us. I like that. It was an appropriate ending to an absolutely mesmerising and wonderful book, not read once but three times. Am I religious? Not in the past but my thoughts are indeed changing. ...more There were many beautiful and moving passages in this book, but there are also some tedious aspects. I feel like a brute for criticizing what is essentially Didion's grief diary after her husband died, but some complaints have to be made. Didion gets too bogged down in the hours and days and minutiae of her husband's autopsy report. Also, parts felt like an academic paper because she kept quoting medical studies -- all part of the attempt to make sense of the autopsy. Those kinds of details are There were many beautiful and moving passages in this book, but there are also some tedious aspects. I feel like a brute for criticizing what is essentially Didion's grief diary after her husband died, but some complaints have to be made. Didion gets too bogged down in the hours and days and minutiae of her husband's autopsy report. Also, parts felt like an academic paper because she kept quoting medical studies -- all part of the attempt to make sense of the autopsy. Those kinds of details are best left scribbled in a notebook. I would rather have had those pages filled with more memories of her husband and daughter, who was also hospitalized during this time. (And very sadly, Didion's daughter died after the book was finished.) But it's still a remarkable book, despite the minor annoyances. And I will give Didion the highest compliment I can give a writer, which is that I want to read more of her work. Sidenote: This is the third grief memoir I've read in about six months, the others being \"Love is a Mix Tape\" and \"An Exact Replica of a Figment of my Imagination.\" It's been interesting to see how the different writers have coped with a loved one's death. An incident Didion relates is when she refuses to give away her husband's shoes after he died, because she \"magically\" believes he will return and will need them. There was a similar heartbreaking scene in \"Mix Tape,\" when Rob Sheffield unplugs the landline telephone and carries it around with him, under the delusion that his wife (who died the previous day) is simply lost and will try to call him -- even though the phone isn't plugged in. The point is that no amount of reading or planning can prepare you for the time when \"you sit down to dinner, and life as you know it ends.\" But these books will remind me to be more gentle with myself, and others, when a dark day comes and we find ourselves carrying around an unplugged telephone. ...more \"You sit down to dinner and life as you know it ends\". Didion uses this statement throughout the book, and this is a statement, or some varied version of it, that has touched or may touch many of us at some point in time. The thought of it; we suppress it, bury it just out of view of our consciousness, but we know it's there, that we may have to face it head on someday. That's what Joan Didion does in this book when she is faced with her husbands sudden death. This is how she existed, how she wen \"You sit down to dinner and life as you know it ends\". Didion uses this statement throughout the book, and this is a statement, or some varied version of it, that has touched or may touch many of us at some point in time. The thought of it; we suppress it, bury it just out of view of our consciousness, but we know it's there, that we may have to face it head on someday. That's what Joan Didion does in this book when she is faced with her husbands sudden death. This is how she existed, how she went about surviving the first year after his death. It's an analysis, a confession even, of what she experienced, what she thought, and how she eventually was able to accept the reality. Brilliant writing, but one would expect nothing less from this accomplished author. Winner 2005 National Book Award Non-fiction ...more I also thought this book was tremendously overrated. In the past, I loved Didion because she was a great stylist and a brilliant structuralist. The title essay of The White Album is probably the best-written essay of all time in my book, followed by F. Scott Fitzgerald's \"The Crack-up\" and Charles Bowden's \"Torch Song.\" She has the ability to analyze the personal politics of narrative, and to disclose just how weird and singular her brain is without even a trace of pity or sentimentality. The Wh I also thought this book was tremendously overrated. In the past, I loved Didion because she was a great stylist and a brilliant structuralist. The title essay of The White Album is probably the best-written essay of all time in my book, followed by F. Scott Fitzgerald's \"The Crack-up\" and Charles Bowden's \"Torch Song.\" She has the ability to analyze the personal politics of narrative, and to disclose just how weird and singular her brain is without even a trace of pity or sentimentality. The White Album and Slouching toward Bethlehem are stunning collections. However, as much as it pains me to say it, her powers are not evident in this book. I admire her ferocious impulse to bare her grief and all its fractal iterations, but, like Donald Hall's Without, her sentences aren't up to the task. The Didion of the 60's would have cringed to hear a line like \"In an instant, your life can change\" come out of her mouth. The strength of her earlier works rests on wry and ironic asides, radical withholding of psychic materials paired with a dazzling ability to move through a scene, and metaphors and sensations that are as finely tuned as any you would find in a novel. But above all, her strange sensibility: becoming obsessed with urban planning, noting the anthropology of poolside drinks in Honolulu, analyzing forensically how Jim Morrison played with matches. Her concerns and how they conditioned her view of the world and her self didn't remotely resemble anyone else's, I loved her darling, odd self. Most of these assets are sadly absent in this memoir. Bald statement, lazy metaphor, and sequence instead of artful arrangement are the rule here, and I hope it is merely due to her grief, and not due to the fall one of the great prose stylists of the past 40 years. ...more ANCHE PI\u00d9 CHE UN GIORNO DI PI\u00d9 Quando termin\u00f2 la cerimonia ci recammo nella villetta di Pebble Beach. C\u2019erano degli stuzzichini, dello champagne, una terrazza aperta sul Pacifico, una cosa molto semplice. Per la luna di miele passammo qualche notte in bungalow del ranch San Ysidro di Montecito e poi, annoiati, fuggimmo al Beverly Hills Hotel. Ce la far\u00e0 una persona che scrive queste cose, con questo tono, ce la far\u00e0 a trasmettere il suo dolore, il senso della sua perdita, a risultare empatica\u2026? Oh, ANCHE PI\u00d9 CHE UN GIORNO DI PI\u00d9 Quando termin\u00f2 la cerimonia ci recammo nella villetta di Pebble Beach. C\u2019erano degli stuzzichini, dello champagne, una terrazza aperta sul Pacifico, una cosa molto semplice. Per la luna di miele passammo qualche notte in bungalow del ranch San Ysidro di Montecito e poi, annoiati, fuggimmo al Beverly Hills Hotel. Ce la far\u00e0 una persona che scrive queste cose, con questo tono, ce la far\u00e0 a trasmettere il suo dolore, il senso della sua perdita, a risultare empatica\u2026? Oh, se ce la far\u00e0! Ce la fa, senza alcun dubbio, ce l\u2019ha fatta: il suo libro \u00e8 un colpo alla parte pi\u00f9 sensibile del lettore, senza dimenticare quella pi\u00f9 cognitiva. Joan Didion \u00e8 probabilmente snob, forse anche insopportabilmente snob: ma ha rara intelligenza e sensibilit\u00e0 e scrive da dio. Quaranta anni insieme, 24 ore al giorno: perch\u00e9 moglie e marito sono scrittori e sceneggiatori e giornalisti \u2013 a volte lavorano insieme allo stesso film, per lo pi\u00f9 ciascuno porta avanti la sua scrittura \u2013 ma lui \u00e8 il primo lettore di lei, e viceversa \u2013 il primo lettore di una nuova opera, ma anche semplicemente di un articolo di giornale, di un pensiero, un\u2019annotazione. Tra John e Joan lo scambio \u00e8 continuo, quotidiano, insistito, profondo. Lei non ha conservato lettere di lui: semplicemente perch\u00e9 non si sono mai scritti - stavano sempre insieme, non ce n\u2019era motivo \u2013 durante le rare separazioni, le salate bollette del telefono sostituivano la corrispondenza. Per quaranta anni, 24 ore al giorno. Poi, una sera, in un attimo, lui se ne va: improvvisamente smette di parlare, non risponde a una domanda di lei, cade per terra ed \u00e8 gi\u00e0 morto. [La figlia da qualche giorno \u00e8 ricoverata in terapia intensiva, inizio di una lunga malattia che la vedr\u00e0 in ospedale per mesi e poi morire un anno e mezzo dopo]. Joan inizia a leggere qualsiasi cosa che riesca a trovare sulla morte: medicina, psicanalisi, psichiatria, scienze naturali, storia delle culture, letteratura, mitologia\u2026 Questo libro \u00e8 ovviamente il tentativo di Didion di elaborare il suo lutto, di affrontare assenza e perdita del marito: ma prima di tutto \u00e8 una dichiarazione d\u2019amore, perch\u00e9 racconta una magnifica storia d\u2019amore. Didion racconta i fatti nei dettagli, attenta alla cronologia, ripercorrendola pi\u00f9 e pi\u00f9 volte; esamina il suo sentire come un anatomopatologo; cita opere sue e altrui; ma anche letteratura medica della quale diventa esperta; e referti, anamnesi, terapie; fa ricerche su Google, prende in mano poesie, ricorda canzoni, ripercorre la sua vita, rivive ricordi, ripassa la memoria\u2026 La razionalit\u00e0 del suo raccontare, dell\u2019uso dei dettagli e della cronologia dei fatti, delle cose che bene o male fa compie vive: questa razionalit\u00e0 si sovrappone all\u2019irrazionalit\u00e0 dell\u2019ostinato desiderio di chi non c\u2019\u00e8 pi\u00f9, di abolire la morte, cancellare la perdita, annullare l\u2019assenza, fermare il tempo, riavvolgerlo, riviverlo, duplicarlo\u2026 Questo \u00e8 il pensiero magico (in realt\u00e0 il pensiero ipnotico) che dura un anno pi\u00f9 un giorno, dal 30 dicembre 2003 fino al 31 dicembre 2004, quando Joan si accorge che per specchiare l\u2019oggi nello ieri insieme a John deve usare un\u2019agenda di pi\u00f9, un anno \u00e8 gi\u00e0 passato: e questo piccolo sforzo in pi\u00f9 \u00e8 gi\u00e0 il segno dell\u2019inizio dell\u2019accettazione del cambiamento. Quando Didion inizia a scrivere questo libro, John \u00e8 morto da nove mesi. Quando lo pubblica, nell\u2019agosto del 2005, da due mesi anche sua figlia \u00e8 morta. Joan non cambia il racconto, l\u2019anno del pensiero magico \u00e8 finito, alla figlia dedica un libro che scriver\u00e0 anni dopo, \u201cBlue Nights\u201d. \u00c8 stata descritta come una personalit\u00e0 raffinata, sofisticata, tagliente: qui, Joan Didion sa mettersi a nudo con raro coraggio e sincerit\u00e0, sa mostrare i tormenti della sua anima restando intelligente profonda elegante, dotata di una scrittura che spacca. PS Di quest\u2019opera esiste un adattamento teatrale a opera della stessa Didion, portato in scena da Vanessa Redgrave. PPSS Ti amer\u00f2 anche pi\u00f9 che un giorno di pi\u00f9 , dice Audrey Hepburn/Marian a Sean Connery/Robin Hood in una delle scene pi\u00f9 struggenti della mia personale storia del cinema. E cos\u00ec dice il padre, che di cinema si era sempre nutrito nel senso pi\u00f9 letterale, alla figlia stesa sul letto della rianimazione lasciandola per tornare a casa. Poche ore prima di morire. ...more I\u2019m finding it surprisingly difficult to write about this book. This is, without a doubt, the perfect book about having your husband die suddenly of a massive heart attack while your daughter is in the hospital in a coma, about to begin her own death-defying medical struggle (one she eventually loses, although that\u2019s outside the scope of this particular book). I thought this memoir was so perfect that it\u2019s hard for me to understand any of the criticisms of it. Are the critics saying there\u2019s only I\u2019m finding it surprisingly difficult to write about this book. This is, without a doubt, the perfect book about having your husband die suddenly of a massive heart attack while your daughter is in the hospital in a coma, about to begin her own death-defying medical struggle (one she eventually loses, although that\u2019s outside the scope of this particular book). I thought this memoir was so perfect that it\u2019s hard for me to understand any of the criticisms of it. Are the critics saying there\u2019s only one way to grieve, and Joan Didion is doing it wrong? Or that there\u2019s only one way to write about grieving, and Joan Didion is doing that wrong? If you\u2019ve ever grieved the loss of anyone, I don\u2019t see how you can hold either of these opinions. Grief does not follow some straight line, where you\u2019re devastated and then day by day you\u2019re less devastated, until one day you\u2019re fine. As this book makes clear, grief is sporadic and unpredictable. It ebbs and flows. There\u2019s nothing logical about it, and trying to impose logic isn't going to help you at all. And so, Joan Didion takes a cab home from the hospital after the death of her husband John, and her first thought is that she really needs to discuss the situation with John. She initially doesn\u2019t want people to know about his death, because it might ruin his chances of coming back. With both her daughter and her husband, she goes over situations again and again, as if by doing so she could somehow change what has already happened. She moves back to Los Angeles to be with her daughter during her latest hospital stay, but finds the streets so full of memories that she must devise careful routes that don\u2019t lead her past any troubling locations that might leave her useless for the rest of the day. She cries to her doctor that she \u201cjust can\u2019t see the upside\u201d to the situation. If all of this sounds grim, it is. Of course it is. But perfect. There seem to be two main criticisms of this book. One is that Joan Didion is ice-cold, standoffish, and unfeeling. She certainly seems this way sometimes: At the time of her husband\u2019s death, the social worker assigned to her calls her \u201ca pretty cool customer.\u201d Significantly, though, Joan wonders what an \u201cuncool customer\u201d would be allowed to do: \u201cBreak down? Require sedation? Scream?\u201d Joan wonders this not with judgment, but clearly with a kind of envy: Just because she doesn\u2019t do these things doesn\u2019t mean she doesn\u2019t want to. Fittingly, then, the other criticism I\u2019ve seen is that Joan is too self-pitying. Joan addresses this in the book as well. We abhor self-pity in our culture, but, as she points out, if you\u2019ve been through a traumatic experience over which you have no control, self-pity is a perfectly normal response. And it is! So I guess the truth is, in this book, Joan Didion is both self-pitying and a \u201ccool customer.\u201d In this book you see quite clearly the struggle of someone who\u2019s kept things under control for years and now finds, late in life, that nothing at all is under her control. How it could be written any other way is beyond me. ...more This wasn't exactly what I expected. I knew from an interview with Didion on Fresh Air that the book was written in the year that followed the death of her husband - A year she spent mostly in hospitals at her adult daughter's bedside. The daughter, Quintana, suffered various illnesses and injuries that year, all of them serious & potentially fatal. The medical odyssey had begun just five days before her husband's sudden death from a heart attack. He died, in fact, in the couple's living roo This wasn't exactly what I expected. I knew from an interview with Didion on Fresh Air that the book was written in the year that followed the death of her husband - A year she spent mostly in hospitals at her adult daughter's bedside. The daughter, Quintana, suffered various illnesses and injuries that year, all of them serious & potentially fatal. The medical odyssey had begun just five days before her husband's sudden death from a heart attack. He died, in fact, in the couple's living room having just returned for the night from their daughter's hospital room. What I expected was a memoir of the piled-upon trajedies. I guess I did get that, just not how I'd imagined. I expected emotion and poignant anecdotes that would be intimate but also somehow metaphorical on the grand scale (she is a famous fiction writer after all, if anyone could deliver this it would be her). Turns out, Didion is not a particularly emotive person. She is however a true believer that knowledge is power [reminding me of one of my favorite quotes] and she attacks both her grief and her daughter's poor health as a researcher and investigator. She quickly abandons the grief books of self-help ilk for actual, scientific and psychological studies and treatises. For medical manuals and calling in favors from medical professionals with whom she has one connection or another. Then she studies her self in a remarkably objective manner (perhaps aided by shock?) armed with this new knowledge. I've read some of the other reviews of this book on goodreads and note that those that are particularly critical don't like the coldness with which Didion approaches the book but I took that as self-preservation. She had to keep moving or she might, literally, shrivel up and die. To explore her illogical behaviors (like keeping her husbands shoes even after giving up the rest of his clothes) and her increasingly tenuous grasp on the present (much of the book is expository, with Didion letting present details lead her back to various experiences that she analyzes and re-analyzes with the detriment of hindsight) is her way of keeping afloat. It's those very qualities of her grief, human and irrational, that made Didion, to me, a sympathetic author. The 'magical' thinking in the title refers to her insistence throughout the year, though private and mostly subconscious, that if she could just analyze things correctly or do everything in a particular, precise way her husband would come back and rejoin their life. That's a desperation a lot of us can relate to - even if we muddled through it in ways very different from Didion's. I enjoyed the reminiscing - a peek into the lives of two prominent U.S. authors of the last half century and those with whom they held court. I found Didion's research fascinating and more so the way she applied it to her own circumstance and then considered the data. The book made me think about my own choices and how I might reconsider them in the future, when things are different and the faux security of youth are gone. ...more A National Book Award-winner, this book is Didion\u2019s personal memoir of the year following the death of her husband, writer John Dunne. Didion lays out her thought processes and emotions and struggle for normalcy after Dunne passes away suddenly one night at the dinner table from a heart problem. I didn\u2019t find this book nearly as good as the hype would lead me to believe. The NY Times review called it an \"indelible portrait of loss and grief.\" The NY Review of Books said \"I can\u2019t imagine dying w A National Book Award-winner, this book is Didion\u2019s personal memoir of the year following the death of her husband, writer John Dunne. Didion lays out her thought processes and emotions and struggle for normalcy after Dunne passes away suddenly one night at the dinner table from a heart problem. I didn\u2019t find this book nearly as good as the hype would lead me to believe. The NY Times review called it an \"indelible portrait of loss and grief.\" The NY Review of Books said \"I can\u2019t imagine dying without this book.\" For me, it earned none of the preceding words of praise. Books on grief have been done much better, including one referenced multiple times throughout Didion\u2019s book (A Grief Observed by CS Lewis is far superior). I am absolutely convinced that the only reason Didion\u2019s book received such notably positive press was because she and her husband were good friends with all these reviewers and the rest of the literary community, having bonded with these people at dinner parties on the Upper East Side in smoking jackets with martinis and cigars; Didion and Dunne were part of the NYC writing establishment Didion\u2019s prose throughout is tight and reminiscent of early Vonnegut (his self-referencing style, not his humor), but there is an emotional distance in her writing. She quotes numerous studies on grief throughout the book, having spent the months following the tragedy not only grieving but studying grief. But the research studies don\u2019t serve to illuminate her grief; they serve to distance us from her grief. Secondly, Didion lived a very upper-crust NY life, and the way she describes the events she will miss doing (dining at Morton\u2019s with her husband, walking on the Jardin du Ranelagh in Paris with her husband, skipping the Monet exhibit to dine at Conti\u2019s with her husband) further distances me from Didion\u2019s grief. Personally, I don\u2019t find rich people experiencing tragedy as tragic as I would find average people experiencing tragedy. I found this too emotionally detached to recommend it. ...more I don't think it's Joan Didion's fault that my reaction to this book was to question and/or deride several facets of my life: should I be closer to my husband, like the author? Was I wasting time? Why didn't I keep a real journal? Why were the sporadic sentences in my sad attempt a journal so poorly written? Why don't I have a kitchen notebook to write down my meals like Joan Didion? Why did I just switch tense? Shouldn't I be keeping better notes on the goings-on of my life? In any event, this I don't think it's Joan Didion's fault that my reaction to this book was to question and/or deride several facets of my life: should I be closer to my husband, like the author? Was I wasting time? Why didn't I keep a real journal? Why were the sporadic sentences in my sad attempt a journal so poorly written? Why don't I have a kitchen notebook to write down my meals like Joan Didion? Why did I just switch tense? Shouldn't I be keeping better notes on the goings-on of my life? In any event, this self absorbed reaction kept me from going all the way to a 5. I suppose even though it's not Joan Didion's fault I still blame her a little bit. ...more This is my first attempt to read anything written by Joan Didion. I picked up The Year of Magical thinking at a used book sale, after hearing her name thrown around in literary circles and not knowing anything about her. At this moment I'm only on page 76 and I don't know if I'll bother trying to make it to page 77 as the pretension is becoming unbearable. The book is a series of essays she wrote after the death of her husband to whom she was married for 40 years. Little nuggets of Didion's poeti This is my first attempt to read anything written by Joan Didion. I picked up The Year of Magical thinking at a used book sale, after hearing her name thrown around in literary circles and not knowing anything about her. At this moment I'm only on page 76 and I don't know if I'll bother trying to make it to page 77 as the pretension is becoming unbearable. The book is a series of essays she wrote after the death of her husband to whom she was married for 40 years. Little nuggets of Didion's poetic insight on grief gave me the momentum to keep going even as her words threw up some stumbling blocks of resentment as I couldn't help but compare her grief over the loss of her husband to my own grief over the loss of my sister. Didion had her husband for 40 years! I only had my sister for 32. What I would give for 8 more! (I realize this line of thinking would be equally offensive to someone who only had their loved one for 26 years, 18 years, 7 years, 7 months, or seven hours. Only eternity with our loved ones can sate us). Not only that, but how damn lucky is this woman that she loved the man she was married to so intensely and so thoroughly for four decades! I don't even dream of such a love. The chances of that kind of relationship coming into being in anyone's life are so slim as to make imagining it a ridiculous torture devise. These things I could get over, but when you throw in all her remembrances of trips to Cambridge, Malibu, Indonesia, Beverly Hills, St. Bart's, Palos Verdes and all the souffl\u00e9s, creme caramels, daubes and alb\u00f3ndigas her husband ate at these places it gets to be too damn much. I don't even know what a daube or an alb\u00f3ndiga is and Didion repulses me to such an extent that I don't have any interest in finding out, either. ...more It has been said that divorce is second in psychological trauma only to the loss of a spouse. Personally, I think that\u2019s bullshit; loss of a child must trump all. In any case, Ms. Didion is of the opinion that loss through divorce is mitigated by the ex-spouses corporeal presence on this fine earth; i.e. they\u2019re still alive and well and accessible. Indeed ex-spouses are a present and constant reminder of failure. They are a walking, talking embodiment of the life you thought you would have forev It has been said that divorce is second in psychological trauma only to the loss of a spouse. Personally, I think that\u2019s bullshit; loss of a child must trump all. In any case, Ms. Didion is of the opinion that loss through divorce is mitigated by the ex-spouses corporeal presence on this fine earth; i.e. they\u2019re still alive and well and accessible. Indeed ex-spouses are a present and constant reminder of failure. They are a walking, talking embodiment of the life you thought you would have forever; gone now, replaced with something you never dared imagine. In one chapter she remembers being 22 years old and scoffing at an author\u2019s grief, a lack of understanding that she presently laments and freely recognizes as youth; refreshing introspection the depths of which few are truly capable. As moved as I was by her introspections and admissions, I was a bit surprised by her inaccurate portrayal of grief through divorce. Joan points out that as a widower she found she irrationally blamed herself for her husbands death. The mighty difference between between losing a spouse to death and divorce is that in divorce, others wonder what you did wrong. How did he screw up? Was he violent? A bad father? Disloyal? Unfaithful? Yes, not only do some wonder, but you imagine that everyone does. Every time you lose your temper, say something stupid, experience a lapse in judgement someone might be thinking, \u201cThat must be why she left him.\u201d And someone one probably is. This is the first piece I\u2019ve read by the prolific Joan Didion and I will go back for more. In spite of my disagreements with her assumption on in-experienced grief, I truly enjoy caring enough about a piece of literature to re-evaluate my feelings on such a present subject. The raw candor in which she expresses what are undoubtedly the most painful moments of her life was startlingly eloquent. I can\u2019t wait to see what she has done with fiction. ...more \"I know why we try to keep the dead alive: we try to keep them alive in order to keep them with us. I also know that if we are to live ourselves there comes a point at which we must relinquish the dead, let them go, keep them dead. Let them become the photograph on the table. Let them become the name on the trust accounts. Let go of them in the water.\" Joan Didion, in this memoir following her year after the death of her husband, John, and hospitalization of her only daughter, deals with grief. She t \"I know why we try to keep the dead alive: we try to keep them alive in order to keep them with us. I also know that if we are to live ourselves there comes a point at which we must relinquish the dead, let them go, keep them dead. Let them become the photograph on the table. Let them become the name on the trust accounts. Let go of them in the water.\" Joan Didion, in this memoir following her year after the death of her husband, John, and hospitalization of her only daughter, deals with grief. She talks about grief vs. mourning. She recounts memories of her life with John in New York and Los Angeles. She processes these emotions she is dealing with as a widow right on the page. At times it's slow. She gets into a bit too much medical information for my liking, and it does seem odd when it's such a personal story, but maybe that is her way of coping with her husband dying. But the moments in which she talks about how seeing things, or visiting old places, triggers memories of her early married life with John are beautiful. She writes openly and honestly and with a poignancy that is unmatched in a lot of memoirs. It's quite a short book, brief, covering one year but really many years--the 40 that they are married--and her journey to finding closure. But there isn't always closure, as Didion says: \"I look for resolution and find none.\" Because life happens and death happens, and we just keep on living. ...more Didion's memoir of the year after her husband's death, and the serious illnesses of her daughter Quintanna, is a gripping read. It moves back and forth through her married life with John, recounting moments of possible foreshadowing of future disaster. She mentions and then documents the unwinding of the mind and spirit after losing a loved one, what happens to protect, to shelter, to then move on. I found much to relate to, possibly to return to at a later time. I've seen negative mention by ot Didion's memoir of the year after her husband's death, and the serious illnesses of her daughter Quintanna, is a gripping read. It moves back and forth through her married life with John, recounting moments of possible foreshadowing of future disaster. She mentions and then documents the unwinding of the mind and spirit after losing a loved one, what happens to protect, to shelter, to then move on. I found much to relate to, possibly to return to at a later time. I've seen negative mention by others of Didion's penchant for name/brand dropping. It really didn't strike me that way while reading. These people and items were facts of her and her husband's lives together and were a part of their identification. Their memories were made at fancier places than I inhabit perhaps, but that does not seem to merit a penalty. In this memoir, individual memories are key, whether they are of a particular perfume or tie, or restaurant or movie director. Each thing or person led to another memory which furthered the journey or explanation of emotion. I don't know if I'm expressing what I mean here, so I think I'll end by saying I found this book very meaningful. ...more What has stayed with me most from this book is her idea of \"the shallowness of sanity.\" We move through life as though our days aren't numbered; death or tragedy shocks us into another mental state. \"Sanity\" involves a kind of denial of mortality. \"Grief is different. Grief has no distance. Grief comes in waves, paroxysms, sudden apprehensions that weaken the knees and blind the eyes and obliterate the dailiness of life.\" In The Magical Year of Thinking , Joan Didion creates a cerebral, searing, and brutal portrayal of grief. Just days before Christmas of 2003, Didion's daughter, Quintana, fell ill and began life support. Then, while eating dinner around a week later, Didion's husband, John, suffered a massive and fatal coronary. In this bo \"Grief is different. Grief has no distance. Grief comes in waves, paroxysms, sudden apprehensions that weaken the knees and blind the eyes and obliterate the dailiness of life.\" In The Magical Year of Thinking , Joan Didion creates a cerebral, searing, and brutal portrayal of grief. Just days before Christmas of 2003, Didion's daughter, Quintana, fell ill and began life support. Then, while eating dinner around a week later, Didion's husband, John, suffered a massive and fatal coronary. In this book, Didion attempts to pull apart the vestiges of her former reality and reflect on her marriage and her family, before she lost her life as she knew it. There does not exist one right way to grieve. Didion has an analytical, academic approach to her grief, at least as she portrays in it The Magical Year of Thinking . She approaches concepts such as the meaningfulness of death and the castigation of self-pity with unflinching honesty. As someone who has love and lost, I found Didion's approach heartrending and intriguing, even if I myself could not relate too much to the way she processed emotion. The book felt slim, and Didion's writing packs a punch, even if their impact fell in similar ways at times. Recommended to those who can handle a more stoic and objective representation of grief. Not my favorite book ever, but I believe that some might relate to it, in particular those who find poignancy in the words left unsaid, or the emotions that remain unexpressed. ...more For me this book was all about the tension between my hateful, all-consuming envy of Joan Didion for being a rich, brilliant, famous, cool, successful writer with the perfect life, and her obvious point that none of that stuff really matters. I mean, okay, it is way better to stay at the Beverly Wilshire hotel while your only daughter's bruised and swollen brain and dying body are scalpeled apart by the best trauma doctors in the country. This is better than, say, having your daughter get only tr For me this book was all about the tension between my hateful, all-consuming envy of Joan Didion for being a rich, brilliant, famous, cool, successful writer with the perfect life, and her obvious point that none of that stuff really matters. I mean, okay, it is way better to stay at the Beverly Wilshire hotel while your only daughter's bruised and swollen brain and dying body are scalpeled apart by the best trauma doctors in the country. This is better than, say, having your daughter get only treatment Medicaid allows and visiting the city hospital when you finish the second shift at your dead-end job, which you have to go to, even though you're insane with grief and terror, because you're one paycheck away from homelessness. As people on here seem fond of noting, yeah, it is way better to have money during such events, and really it's probably nicer to be Joan Didion, rather than somebody else, in most situations, especially ones like these. But it still sucks. A lot. Being Joan Didion and having all her giant heaps of money, brains, and talent, is not currency with much value in the places she travels to in this book, which is part of what makes it such an interesting read, instead of just a well-written and deeply personal description of grief, which, of course, it also is. ...more 'I hadn\u2019t been able to think of food for days, so I had sent Higgins out for an hors d\u2019oeuvres platter from Caf\u00e9 Provencal. I was nibbling brie and beluga caviar on the deck, watching the sun set over the New York skyline and wondering how things could get any worse when Higgins brought me the phone. It was Gary. My stomach lurched. Sequoia had collapsed at the bus terminal and been rushed to the emergency room, but there was no word as to what was wrong with her. I had to get to Los Angeles as q 'I hadn\u2019t been able to think of food for days, so I had sent Higgins out for an hors d\u2019oeuvres platter from Caf\u00e9 Provencal. I was nibbling brie and beluga caviar on the deck, watching the sun set over the New York skyline and wondering how things could get any worse when Higgins brought me the phone. It was Gary. My stomach lurched. Sequoia had collapsed at the bus terminal and been rushed to the emergency room, but there was no word as to what was wrong with her. I had to get to Los Angeles as quickly as possible, but first I had to find suitable accommodations. I called my close friend, Academy Award nominated film director G\u00e9rard Lupin. \u201cG\u00e9rard,\u201d I said, overemphasizing the accent mark as he prefers, \u201cSequoia has fallen ill! I need to borrow your chateau for a few weeks while she\u2019s in the hospital.\u201d \u201cBut of course, Jane,\u201d he said. \u201cYou\u2019ve already lost so much. You know, I once said to Jim, may he rest in peace, \u2018Jim, you\u2019re inarguably one of the most masterful writers of the 20th Century.\u2019 And he said to me, \u2018Yes, G\u00e9rard. I am. Second only to Jane, perhaps. I am truly blessed to have found someone as wonderful as her.\u2019\u201d He paused, reminiscing. Then he spoke again, his voice thick with emotion. \u201cI\u2019m shooting with Sir Anthony Hopkins in Luxembourg (he says hello), but I will do anything I can to help.\u201d He cleared his throat. \u201cBut what is Sequoia doing in France?\u201d \u201cThe California chateau, at the vineyard,\u201d I said. \u201cAh, of course,\u201d he said sadly.' That\u2019s an excerpt from my upcoming Joan Didion parody, working title: \u201cThe Year of Entitled Thinking\u201d. You may have correctly inferred from the tone that I didn\u2019t much enjoy The Year of Magical Thinking. According to a friend who was able to generate a surprising amount of outrage in response to my disdain, this is because I am \u201cnot an adult\u201d, but in speaking with her and reflecting on it for a few days, I think I\u2019ve come to a somewhat more nuanced understanding of my viewpoint. To begin with, this book is the very definition (by my standard, anyway) of creative non-fiction. Didion tells a very personal story entirely from her own perspective. In fact, the story is really about her perspective, her grief and corresponding inability to rationally accept that John is gone and won\u2019t ever be coming back. She even goes so far as to underscore the extreme subjectivity of the narrative by pointing out a few times where her recollection of events explicitly differs from that of some of the other players. She does, on the other hand, also try to universalize it by citing experts/psychological studies on the grieving process and juxtaposing the information with her own experience, almost as if to say, \u201cThis happens to everyone, even Joan Fucking Didion .\u201d It\u2019s certainly interesting to think that this state of grief-stricken irrationality is so commonplace as to be almost scientifically quantifiable, although I\u2019m taking her word for it. The narrative itself seems somewhat disjointed at parts, with Didion repeating herself or not making herself entirely clear, but I think that\u2019s intentional, to better bring the reader into line with her state of mind at the time. Thereupon sitteth, on an ostentatious, jewel-encrusted throne, my problem with the book, I think. Didion\u2019s a great writer. She almost compels the reader to empathize with her, not just her emotions, but the state of temporary, borderline insanity she finds herself in. I really feel like I have a good idea of who Joan Didion is as a person, or at least who Joan Didion wants me to think she is, and that would seem to be a guiding purpose of autobiographical creative non-fiction. I have sympathy for her, especially having discovered that Quintana also passed away right before the book was published. But I don\u2019t think I like her very much. This is subjective, obviously. I got the impression that Didion is something of a literary star, inasmuch as such a thing exists any more. From whom did I get that impression? From Joan Fucking Didion, that\u2019s who. I don\u2019t know how to explain it better. I think if she had referred to herself entirely in the third person throughout: \u201cImportant Author Joan Didion didn\u2019t have an appetite,\u201d it would have fit my interpretation of her general tone. She name-drops in a way that I find fairly inappropriate given the context. She creates an image of a person who\u2019s certainly living far more comfortably than anyone I know, and I find it difficult to muster that much sympathy. I\u2019m sure there are at least three-billion people on the planet who\u2019d trade places with Joan Didion in a heartbeat, even given these tragic circumstances, because it would mean that they weren\u2019t going to starve or die of malaria or have their arms cut off by a roving gang of soldiers. Is that an unfair standard to hold this story to? Of course it is. But I found it to be fairly self-indulgent and self-reverential. And the fact that she seems to have anticipated that I might react this way and told me that she would have felt the same way at my age, but that her younger self and I are both wrong only strengthens my conviction. Who knows, maybe I\u2019ll understand better when I\u2019m an Old. I don\u2019t deny that Didion is a talented writer, but she seems to know it too and take herself way too seriously as a result. That is my perspective. ...more After I saw a short article about this book, I decided I would probably have to read it. The author lost her husband suddenly while her only daughter was in a coma in the hospital. I loved the book and I would highly recommend it to anyone who has lost a spouse, parent, or someone close. And, to anyone in a long term marriage or relationship that still has both partners. As I read it, I thought a lot about my mom and how these would have been her thoughts \u2013 if she had not been the first to go. I t After I saw a short article about this book, I decided I would probably have to read it. The author lost her husband suddenly while her only daughter was in a coma in the hospital. I loved the book and I would highly recommend it to anyone who has lost a spouse, parent, or someone close. And, to anyone in a long term marriage or relationship that still has both partners. As I read it, I thought a lot about my mom and how these would have been her thoughts \u2013 if she had not been the first to go. I thought about my dad and, how he is dealing with her absence. I thought about Doug and our marriage and how it would be if one of us lost the other one. Joan Didion\u2019s observations are right on and she communicates them to the reader so we can understand exactly what she means. -Life changes in the instant. The ordinary instant. -our (I could not yet think my) house -grief, about the ways in which people do and do not deal with the fact that life ends -Fires said we were home, we had drawn the circle, we were safe through the night. -I did not always think he was not right nor did he always think I was right but we were each the person the other trusted. There was no separation between our investments or interests in any given situation. -Grief is different. Grief has no distance. Grief comes in waves, paroxysms, sudden apprehensions that weaken the knees and blind the eyes and obliterate the daily ness of life. Virtually everyone who has ever experienced grief mentions this phenomenon of \u201cwaves.\u201d -Grief was passive. Mourning, the act of dealing with grief, required attention. -The voice on the answering machine is still John\u2019s. The fact that it was his in the first place was arbitrary, having to do with who was around n the day the answering machine last needed programming, but if I needed to retape it now I would do so with a sense of betrayal. One day when I was talking on the telephone in his office I mindlessly turned the pages of the dictionary that he had always left open on the table by the desk. When I realized what I had done I was stricken: what word had he last looked up, what had he been thinking? -As he saw it, he now had a death sentence, temporarily suspended \u2013 he knew how he was going to die. As I saw it, the timing had been providential, the intervention successful the problem solved. -\u201cDon\u2019t ever tell me again you can\u2019t write. That\u2019s my birthday present to you.\u201d -who would see the blood streaming down my leg, who would get the taxi, who would be with me in the emergency room. Who would be with me once I came home? -their son had been \u2018hit hard by the sixties\u2019 -Grief turns out to be a place none of us know until we reach it. We might expect that we will be prostrate, inconsolable, crazy with loss. We do not expect to be literally crazy cool customers who believe that their husband is about to return and need his shoes. -something would come up that I needed to tell him. This impulse did not end with his death. What ended was the possibility of response. -C.S. Lewis \u201cI think I am beginning to understand why grief feels like suspense.\u201d\u2026So many roads once; now so many cul de sacs. -We are repeatedly left, in other words, with no further focus than ourselves, a source from which self-pity naturally flows. -Marriage is memory. Marriage is time. \u201cShe didn\u2019t know the songs\u201d. Marriage is not only time: it is paradoxically, the denial of time. For forty years I saw myself through John\u2019s eyes. I did not age. Postscript: Joan Didion\u2019s daughter Quantana died of pancreatitis in August 2005. ...more Didion breaks a cardinal rule of story-writing, which is to have something happen. The only events that occur in this book are the instantaneous cardiac arrest of her husband and an illness that puts her daughter on life support. Even these, due to Didion's weaving, do not feel like ordinary events in a plotline. She tells pieces of the story over and over again through the various angles of memory, as though her grief had been journalled and later assembled as a mosaic instead of in chronologic Didion breaks a cardinal rule of story-writing, which is to have something happen. The only events that occur in this book are the instantaneous cardiac arrest of her husband and an illness that puts her daughter on life support. Even these, due to Didion's weaving, do not feel like ordinary events in a plotline. She tells pieces of the story over and over again through the various angles of memory, as though her grief had been journalled and later assembled as a mosaic instead of in chronological order. The value of the book is as a series of personal and occasionally psycho-academic (but well-integrated) reflections on grief. \"The Year of Magical Thinking \" refers to her denial that her husband is gone for good. Although she does not believe in the resurrection of Jesus, nevertheless, she says, she feels certain her husband will come back. In the second half of the book, there is an interesting exploration of the Greek play Alcestis, in which a king begs his family to die in his place. Only his wife volunteers to die, and when Charon comes to ferry her away, the king is racked with guilt. The queen eventually returns from the dead. Didion asks: \"If the dead were truly to come back, what would they come back knowing? Could we face them, we who allowed them to die?\" There is a meditation on the idea of luck: whether, if one has been lucky in the past, it is appropriate to consider oneself unlucky later on when something bad happens, and whether one should expect that the playing field will eventually be leveled. \"All year,\" Didion writes, \"I had been keeping time by last year's calendar. What were we doing on this day last year?\" She is shocked when she crosses the one-year mark, and realizes she has over a year's worth of memories that do not include her husband. (I would add that this behavior of \"keeping time by last year's calendar\" is not unique to the death of a loved one; it can happen with any life event that carries a sense of loss, such as a breakup.) Didion's moving conclusion reflects on the tsunami in 2004 that would have eradicated the islands where she once vacationed with her husband. \"I know why we try to keep the dead alive. We try to keep them alive in order to keep them with us. I also know that if we are to live ourselves, there comes a point at which we must relinquish the dead...Let them become the photograph on the table. Let them become the name on the trust accounts. Let go of them in the water.\" ...more<---C>Joan Didion</---C>", "Title": "The Year of Magical Thinking"},
