{"Comments": "MESSAGE TO BIOGRAPHERS: Tidy up your prose,<---M> sharpen your story-telling</---M>, knowledge up on your source material and bring your entire bag of game, because the gauntlet has been chucked, the bar has been raised and <---A>David McCullough</---A> has taken off his literary glove and pasted all of you upside your second rate heads.<---F> The challenge is before you</---F>. This is, WITHOUT QUESTION , the best biography I have ever read. It is also, again WITHOUT QUESTION , the best story on the American Revolution and the creatio MESSAGE TO BIOGRAPHERS: Tidy up your prose, sharpen your story-telling, knowledge up on your source material and bring your entire bag of game, because the gauntlet has been chucked, the bar has been raised and David McCullough has taken off his literary glove and pasted all of you upside your second rate heads. The challenge is before you. This is, WITHOUT QUESTION , the best biography I have ever read. It is also, again WITHOUT QUESTION , the best story on the American Revolution and the creation of the United States of America that I have ever read. The breadth, depth and detail of this biography is unbelievable. Epic does not begin in describe it. It is epic epicness on an epically epic scale. This is only appropriate given the subject matter. After finishing this book, I believe the <+++>John Adams</+++> is the \"founding father\" I most admire. By making that statement, I do not want to downgrade the importance of the others. Jefferson was arguably more intelligent and was clearly the better writer. Washington was the most beloved and admired figure and without his leadership, the fledgling country would not have had a much needed symbol to rally around and the revolution may very well have failed. Alexander Hamilton, Thomas Paine, James Madison, Samuel Adams, John Jay and all the rest deserve to be acknowledged for their significant contributions. So why <+++>John Adams</+++>? Two simple but very important reasons. First, John Adams, through the beautiful prose of McCullough, came across to me as the quintessential HONORABLE MAN . True, he was short tempered and intellectually vain in so far as he very much desired to be acknowledged as \"great\" by his countrymen. He was a man with many faults. However, he NEVER allowed any of his shortcomings or personal desires to influence any decision he made or any action he took. He was a ROCK OF INTEGRITY and every action he took and decision he made (<---B>though not always correct in hindsight</---B>) was what he genuinely BELIEVED to be in the best interest of the country. Thus, he came across in this story as the person who most aptly illustrated the qualities of INTEGRITY, VIRTUE AND MORAL FORTITUDE . In contrast, Jefferson's \"behind the scenes\" attacks on Adams and his inability to even acknowledge the same later on struck me as shallow and less than admirable. I point that out not to bash Jefferson (who I also admire) but to demonstrate that even the best of men had moments when they did not act in accordance with their conscience. Everyone that is, except John Adams, who never seemed to waiver from the path his conscience set before him. The second reason, and one that goes hand in hand with the first, is the absolute devotion, respect and love that he and his wife, Abigail, displayed for one another throughout their lives. Call me sappy and overly sentimental, but I was absolutely awe struck by the level of commitment and affection that they felt and showed to one another even across great distances and during long years when they hardly even saw each other. John and Abigail drew strength and comfort from one another in a way that was special and unique. This just cemented for me the truly exceptional nature of John Adams' character. He made me proud to be an American and to have such men in my country's history. Anyway, to sum up, I loved this book and give it my HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!! 6.0 Stars. One final note: for those of you that listen to audiobooks, I wanted to point out that I listened to the unabridged version (all 30+ hours of it) narrated by Nelson Runger and Mr. Runger did an amazing job that I believe added both to my enjoyment and absorption of the material. ...more Since reading John Adams I have continually been reminded of my delusion of our country's history. Today as I saw the conclusion of the John Adams' series on HBO I realized I was one of those John Adams saw as \"deluded\" by the artistic portrayal of our history in Trumbell's \"Declaration of Independence.\" Adams was right. Too many of us believe Trumbell's view of the Declaration of Independence not acknowledging the many difficulties over many years before and after the signing of that great docu Since reading John Adams I have continually been reminded of my delusion of our country's history. Today as I saw the conclusion of the John Adams' series on HBO I realized I was one of those John Adams saw as \"deluded\" by the artistic portrayal of our history in Trumbell's \"Declaration of Independence.\" Adams was right. Too many of us believe Trumbell's view of the Declaration of Independence not acknowledging the many difficulties over many years before and after the signing of that great document. I'm reminded of that as we too often expect other countries to simply get their act together over a short space of time to form a more free country such as we enjoy. It was never easy. It shall never be easy. There must be always those within the country who are willing and able to do something to make a difference. It takes many making a difference and it takes respect for one another--never simple. Much happens in the process in the making of people. God raises up good and able men and women to make a difference among every people. An important book to read. ...more This is a must-read for anyone interested in the American Revolution. I would call this David McCullough's masterpiece, except I've read several of his remarkable books, including Truman and The Wright Brothers , and they are all so good I don't think I could pick a favorite. But let's get back to John Adams, who, along with Thomas Jefferson and <---C>George Washington</---C>, was a critical founder of America. If you've seen the impressive HBO miniseries based on this book (starring Paul Giamatti and the ama This is a must-read for anyone interested in the American Revolution. I would call this David McCullough's masterpiece, except I've read several of his remarkable books, including Truman and The Wright Brothers , and they are all so good I don't think I could pick a favorite. But let's get back to John Adams, who, along with Thomas Jefferson and George Washington, was a critical founder of America. If you've seen the impressive HBO miniseries based on this book (starring Paul Giamatti and the amazing Laura Linney as Abigail Adams), you already know the outline of events. John Adams was a lawyer in Massachusetts, and after the Boston Massacre in 1770, he agreed to defend the British soldiers, arguing that \"facts are stubborn things.\" Despite widespread anger toward the British, John Adams won the case. Meanwhile, the colonists were growing increasingly dissatisfied with their English overlords, especially with their \"taxation without representation.\" When a Continental Congress was formed in Philadelphia, Adams was chosen to represent Massachusetts. It was there that he found his voice in politics, and met the other men who helped design the American government we know today. Adams was also sent to France and England as an ambassador, and the stories of him abroad were charming in their fish-out-of-water-ness. Oh, and let's not forget Adams became our second president (and his son, John Quincy Adams, became our sixth). In short, John Adams lived an amazing and full life, and had an impact on history that few have the opportunity to do. Aside from being a fascinating person, what really makes this biography shine are the passages from letters that John and Abigail wrote to each other. This is where McCullough excels as a writer of history, in weaving together the best quotes and stories and making the narrative flow as smoothly as a novel. I came away from this book a great admirer of John Adams, and grateful that he was in the right place and the right time to help build this new country. He was smart and fair, but also stubborn and vain. He was a good man with flaws, as many of us are. As I write this, Hamilton the musical is a huge hit on Broadway, but in my mind, John Adams deserves his own show. Favorite Quotes \"The source of our suffering has been our timidity. We have been afraid to think ... Let us dare to read, think, speak, write.\" \"Our obligations to our country never cease but with our lives.\" \"So, it was done, the break was made, in words at least: on July 2, 1776, in Philadelphia, the American colonies declared independence. If not all thirteen clocks had struck as one, twelve had, and with the other silent, the effect was the same. It was John Adams, more than anyone, who had made it happen. Further, he seems to have understood more clearly than any what a momentous day it was and in the privacy of two long letters to Abigail, he poured out his feelings as did no one else: 'The second day of July 1776 will be the most memorable epocha in the history of America. I am apt to believe that it will be celebrated by succeeding generations as the great anniversary festival. It ought to be commemorated as the Day of Deliverance by solemn acts of devotion to God Almighty. It ought to be solemnized with pomp and parade, with shows, games, sports, guns, bells, bonfires, and illuminations from one end of this continent to the other from this time forward forever more.'\" \"I must study politics and war that my sons may have liberty to study mathematics and philosophy. My sons ought to study mathematics and philosophy, geography, natural history, naval architecture, navigation, commerce, and agriculture in order to give their children a right to study paintings, poetry, music, architecture, statuary, tapestry, and porcelain.\" \"The longer I live, the more I read, the more patiently I think and the more anxiously I inquire, the less I seem to know ... do justly. Love mercy. Walk humbly. This is enough.\" ...more A solid and satisfying biography of a key leader in the birth of the American Republic. This book helps make him my favorite of the bunch because of his paradoxical mix of humility and ambition, idealism and pragmatism. Unlike Washington, Jefferson, and Hamilton, he didn\u2019t have aristocratic bearings and valued honesty, sincerity, and free thinking as the highest virtues. He appreciated the simple things in small town life and farming and liked doing his own physical tasks like chopping wood. I a A solid and satisfying biography of a key leader in the birth of the American Republic. This book helps make him my favorite of the bunch because of his paradoxical mix of humility and ambition, idealism and pragmatism. Unlike Washington, Jefferson, and Hamilton, he didn\u2019t have aristocratic bearings and valued honesty, sincerity, and free thinking as the highest virtues. He appreciated the simple things in small town life and farming and liked doing his own physical tasks like chopping wood. I also admire his 50-plus years of devotion to his wife Abigail and his family. By contrast, Franklin effectively abandoned his family for 17 years in Europe and was allured by the high life and ladies in France. The book is at its best in explicating Adams\u2019 character. He came from a 100-year line of farmers and common Puritan folk in Massachusetts, a suburb of Boston now part of Quincy. His father was devout, a deacon of his Protestant church, and expected John to become a minister. Instead he chose law after graduating from Harvard College and a boring stint as a schoolteacher. He wanted to accomplish something of lasting significance and law was a more likely path. On the one hand he criticized himself for the sins of vanity and selfish ambition, while on the other was always driven to fulfill the image and succeeded like few others. Taking Abigail for his wife kept him down to earth, as she was his sounding board and most significant advisor through the rest of his active life. The letters between them are the main window to Adams thinking and personality, and McCullough harnesses them well to reveal his steady good humor, love of people in general, and overall moral optimism Soon his cases began radicalizing him against the powers exerted by the colonial government, like customs searches without a warrant and the imposition of import taxes without representation. I liked his courage in acting on his belief in a fair trial to the point of defending the British soldiers who killed several colonists who were protesting the Stamp Act in 1770 in a dangerously rowdy manner. He learned the arts of public speaking, of applying logic to negotiation, and of reading people\u2019s motivations and likely actions. His ability to inspire trust and his reputation for honest dealings contributed to his becoming a leader among the Patriot crowd. His effective service as a Massachusetts provincial legislator led to his being included in their delegation to the Continental Congress. And the rest is history, as they say. After the violence of Lexington, Concord, and Bunker Hill, Adams could readily lead efforts to build-up the local militias into an integrated Continental Army and was responsible for nominating the Virginian Washington for command. One last hurrah of the Loyalists had to play out with a failed petition to King George to relent before the majority was ready to assert independence. Compared to Adams, Franklin and Jefferson were surprisingly restrained and inarticulate in terms of pushing their ideas in debate. When it came to drafting the Declaration of Independence with them and two others on the committee, it fell to Jefferson to compose most of the writing, but Adams was its chief advocate and most responsible for its passage. When the British response was cutting off trade and blockade, the key to success and survival as a nation became recognition of American independence by counties like France, including a source of naval muscle to assert rights of free trade. Adams was sent with the delegation to France to help pull this off. The dangerous trip, accompanied by his young son John Quincy, in a stormy February crossing was nicely covered in the book. Success in Paris came slow, and he only had a junior role. Upon return, he took up the task of drafting a constitution for Massachusetts, which was one of his accomplishments he was most proud of. In 1779 he was sent back to head up negotiations for a peace treaty with Britain. This time he took Abigail and their daughter along. McCullough is especially engaging in probing for the changing reactions of their plebian family to the fashionable and decadent lifestyles of Parisian society and the state of filth and misery of the lower classes. The book seems to lose energy after this point. His languishing as the first vice president and tenure as president have few high points. The dissension between his Federalist Party and the Republican Party of his vice president Jefferson is given short shrift. When the French began seizing American merchant ships doing trade with Britain, Adams broke with his cabinet advisors (and Abigail) in refusing to join Britain in their war against Napolean\u2019s forces. The libelous press became a target with the Sedition Act, which he felt violated the First Amendment, and did not support aggressive prosecutions as even Abigail wished. Life winds down for Adams after losing the next election to Jefferson. The high point in this book for the long succeeding decades of private life was his ten-year correspondence with Jefferson starting in 1812 through the encouragement of mutual friend Benjamin Rush to put aside their differences. I wish McCullough had done even more than pulling out a few choice sections on their play of ideas. In the end, I felt the book was great for conveying a sense of the man in his times, but t was missing the elements of critical analysis and perspectives that provided a better balance in his biographies of Truman and Teddy Roosevelt. For example, in Isaacson\u2019s biography of Franklin Adams comes off a bit as a drudge and moralistic party pooper in his time with Franklin in Paris. And the Wiki summary on Adams reveals unclear or contradictory positions of Adams on slavery and heredity legislators like Britain\u2019s House of Lords. For readers interested in the American Revolution, McCullough\u2019s \u201c1776\u201d is a better resource for the drama and broader understanding of how it was that ordinary rural people in a diverse set of colonies came together to form an independent nation. I loved Philbrick\u2019s \u201cBunker Hill\u201d even more. These relative judgments are subject to the caveat that I did this \u201cread\u201d as an abridged audiobook. I am only aware of missing sections that cover what his reactions and activities were during the period of British blockage of Boston and early battles of revolt, the course of his contentious relations with Jefferson and with Hamilton, and much of Adams; time as an ambassador to England. ...more I haven\u2019t read a book this good in years! I cannot imagine anyone who wouldn\u2019t enjoy this book. This is a book about a man, John Adams, but it is also much, much more. It is a book about American Independence, the American Revolution and all the Founding Fathers, the seven most important being George Washington, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, John Jay, Alexander Hamilton, George Madison and Benjamin Franklin. The book follows all the events from the Declaration of Independence and the Revolutio I haven\u2019t read a book this good in years! I cannot imagine anyone who wouldn\u2019t enjoy this book. This is a book about a man, John Adams, but it is also much, much more. It is a book about American Independence, the American Revolution and all the Founding Fathers, the seven most important being George Washington, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, John Jay, Alexander Hamilton, George Madison and Benjamin Franklin. The book follows all the events from the Declaration of Independence and the Revolution, through the presidencies of George Washington, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, George Madison, James Monroe and finally John Adams\u2019 son, John Quincy Adams, the sixth president! This is a book about people , each very different in character, but the author brings each one of them to life. I adore learning about people. I loved the book for this reason alone. You understand how the individuals think, what they feared, what they loved, what made each one special. You understand their differences. It is the little details that will make you LOVE this book. John Adams, this guy wrote volumes in the margins of his books. Jefferson loved his books too, but rarely did he write in them. The relationship between these two men is extraordinary. John Adams relationship with his wife Abigail is extraordinary too! I love how it taught me history, and it was never ever boring. I don\u2019t read books about politics, but this book is definitely about politics, and I adored it! I normally avoid books on politics because I find them confusing. Why? Because for me politics doesn\u2019t follow the rules of logic. A party claims they stand for a given set of principles, but then the politicians do not follow these principles. The result is that I get confused. A central theme is, and particularly John Adams presidency and the following election where he sought his second term but lost it to Jefferson, was a battle of politics, and yet I understood exactly what was happening. This book is clear, informative and presents a balanced view of all the prime players. John Adams by David McCullough is stupendous. I cannot help but compare it with Walter Isaacson \u2019s Benjamin Franklin: An American Life , which I recently read and loved, but Isaacson\u2019s book doesn\u2019t come near to McCullough\u2019s. John Adams wrote letters to all his contemporaries, to newspapers, public officials, friends and his dear wife Abigail. He kept diaries. John Adams was opinionated. Jefferson and Franklin were close-mouthed! After his presidency, when he was much older, Adams wrote copious letters to his dear friend and previous arch-enemy, Jefferson. Adams is the person to follow if you are interested in learning about American Independence, American life in the colonies during the 1700s and about France and England and Holland too, about the Napoleonic Wars and the War of 1812. It is all here and it is all interesting. Every page has quotes. Don\u2019t assume that this makes the book dry and difficult to read. The opposite is true! You learn about the peculiarities of all the important Founding Fathers. Jefferson bought and bought and bought. He couldn\u2019t stop buying. It is the way the author depicts these small idiosyncrasies that will make you laugh out loud! Jefferson lists all that he buys, but the funniest is that the columns and columns of purchased items are never added up. Never. Both Adams and Jefferson died on July 4, 1826, fifty years after the Declaration of Independence!!!!! Guess which one was wealthy then! I REALLY love this book and I want you to understand that this is the book to choose if you have any curiosity about any of the Founding Fathers, about American Independence or about life in Europe during the 1700s and early 1800s. Have I convinced you to choose this book? Here is another reason why! The descriptions of the people, places and events are vivid ! When the British ships are set to attack at Staten Island you see them in the sun and you feel the imminent threat. At Washington's inauguration he travels in a canary yellow carriage pulled by white horses. I am skipping all over the place, I know, but the descriptive quality of the lines is perfect throughout the entire book. I personally adored the depiction of French, English and Dutch mores. I adored how family problems are described so you laugh. Charles, one of Adams\u2019 sons, had some difficulties in Harvard and almost got thrown out. Yes, they were running around naked. But wait, you will cry too when you learn of his final fate. \u201cMoral\u201d and so very devoted to his wife as Adams is, you should hear his conversation with the French women! \u201cInstincts\u201d will show us what to do, he replies to a tricky question about men and women\u2019s sexual behavior! :0) This reply is just so perfect; it is so \u201cAdamsee\u201d! And Hamilton, oh what he does! I could wring his neck! All the details are amusing, engaging, thorough, and accurate . When I compare Isaacson\u2019s versus McCullough\u2019s portrait of Benjamin Franklin, I feel that McCullough\u2019s is superior. His is unbiased and clear-sighted. An author may not \u201cfall in love\u201d with the character being portrayed; impartiality is essential. So here is my advice: read John Adams first! The two are similar, but this one is superior. Read Walter Isaacson \u2019s Benjamin Franklin: An American Life afterwards if you then still want a little bit more about Franklin\u2019s scientific inventions. Nelson Runger is the narrator of both of the audiobooks. Yes, he slurps and seems to need to swallow his saliva repeatedly, but there is less of that in McCullough\u2019s book. His French pronunciation could definitely be improved, but otherwise the narration is fine. Don\u2019t shy away from either audiobook for these reasons. The narration\u2019s speed and clarity is fine, and that is what is most important. I really did enjoy Benjamin Franklin: An American Life , but I absolutely loved John Adams ! And I think I sort of have a crush on John Adams, even with his faults! What a man! What a time! What writing! ...more John Adams is an extraordinary book, and an excellent political history of the beginning of the United States. This is the first book I've read by David McCullough , and I'm impressed at his ability to be respectful but blunt, and be serious but entertaining at the same time. John Adams was an unusual man -- though he had the ambition and vanity characteristic of all politicians, he was a remarkably uncomplicated and generally happy family man. The impression one gets from this book is much like John Adams is an extraordinary book, and an excellent political history of the beginning of the United States. This is the first book I've read by David McCullough , and I'm impressed at his ability to be respectful but blunt, and be serious but entertaining at the same time. John Adams was an unusual man -- though he had the ambition and vanity characteristic of all politicians, he was a remarkably uncomplicated and generally happy family man. The impression one gets from this book is much like a hobbit -- a sincere, courageous fat little man, who was thrown into circumstances far beyond his expectations and rose to each occasion with incredible tenacity, determination, and eventual success, but who vastly preferred being at home on his farm, mending walls, resting with his wife, and playing with his children and grandchildren. Adams was one of the most influential figures in the American Revolution, taking roles in the Continental Congress, choosing Washington as General of the Revolutionary Army, writing the constitution of Massachusetts, largely forming and approving the text of the US Constitution and Declaration of Independence, acting as ambassador to England, France, and the Netherlands, being elected Vice President, and eventually becoming the second US President, and father of the sixth. McCullough examines his life through his copious letters, articles, and books, with attention to both his external accomplishments, and his personal life. His joy and enthusiasm in life are impressive to read about -- over his lifetime, he lost a child in infancy, two of his sons grew up to be alcoholics, his only surviving daughter died of cancer in her 40s, he lost several grandchildren in infancy, and eventually lost his beloved wife. Despite this, and despite the public scorn heaped on him for every decision he made as President (yes, they did that back then, too), he managed to build a satisfying life for himself, and take joy in what he did have. One of the most striking aspects of the book for me was how early partisan politics grew venomous and nasty. The country was already split irreconcilably into two parties by Washington's second term, and the race for president after him (between close friends Adams and Jefferson) grew so vicious that the friendship between the men was lost for 11 years. And while modern readers will side with Adams against slavery, and Jefferson against the Alien and Sedition acts, the degree of hatred and hysteria on each side was truly amazing, though Adams managed to stay above it as much as possible. Modern politics are always very different when viewed in the light of history. This is an excellent historical and personal read, and I recommend it to anyone. ...more \"No man who ever held the office of president would congratulate a friend on obtaining it,\" wrote John Adams, and this superb biography by David McCullough makes it clear why Adams was undoubtedly sincere in this sentiment. Adams was a plain and honest speaking man who rose to the challenges of extraordinary times. In this biography he emerges from the shadows of the better known presidents - Washington and Jefferson - whose administrations bracketed his. McCullough did not originally intend to \"No man who ever held the office of president would congratulate a friend on obtaining it,\" wrote John Adams, and this superb biography by David McCullough makes it clear why Adams was undoubtedly sincere in this sentiment. Adams was a plain and honest speaking man who rose to the challenges of extraordinary times. In this biography he emerges from the shadows of the better known presidents - Washington and Jefferson - whose administrations bracketed his. McCullough did not originally intend to write a biography of Adams, it transpires, but a more general book on American history. (This eventually became his later work, 1776 .) But Adams' character and life made McCullough reconsider, and soon he found himself writing a book solely on Adams. I confess to having known almost nothing about Adams, and further confess to being dismally uninformed about the revolutionary period in general, especially considering that I majored in history as an undergrad (albeit with a focus almost exclusively in European history). Some dreadful instruction during middle and high school still casts a pall over American history for me, which I realize is a poor excuse now in my fifth decade, but sadly is the only one I can offer for not having really ever undertaken a more thorough study of my own country's development. Since reading this book, however, I've vowed to read McCullough's 1776 and several other notable accounts of the period. I'm confident that I won't go wrong if I begin with more McCullough, for he is a master portraitist, using apt quotes and vivid description to make his subjects spring to life. Someone (I forget who) remarked that McCullough never wrote a bad page of prose, or something to that effect, and while that may be an exaggeration, it's no exaggeration to say that he is one of the most graceful stylists of our time. He is eloquent without seeming over-enamored of his own words. McCullough's long years as an editor no doubt paid off in honing his own style. Like John Adams, McCullough gravitates toward \"classical\" modes of oration and style. There's a forcefulness and directness that shines through both in Adams and in McCullough's portrayal of him. McCullough has a gift for \"humanizing\" his subjects. Of Adams, he wrote, \"He had a brilliant mind. He was honest and everyone knew it. Emphatically independent by nature, hardworking, frugal, he could be high-spirited and affectionate, vain, cranky, impetuous, self-absorbed, and fiercely stubborn; passionate, quick to anger, and all-forgiving; generous and entertaining. He was blessed with great courage and good humor, yet subject to spells of despair.\" Thus Adams is shown as not a paragon but as someone who had to struggle with his shortcomings. The author's gift for fleshing out his subjects comes the fore in describing the marriage of John and Abigail. Here is a marriage shown in all its complexity; two people who were ideally suited to one another. I couldn't help but think that in their union McCullough saw something of his own -- he's often cited his own wife as being one of the reasons for his great success as a writer, especially in standing behind his decision to quit his job as an editor and research his first book. I confess to having done something I usually hate to do -- I saw the HBO special based on the book before I listened to the audio version of it. Normally that ruins a book for me, but here I found it simply reinforced it. Edward Hermann is an excellent narrator, and in fact I've ordered another audio book read by him from my library, Mornings on Horseback McCullough's biography of Teddy Roosevelt. It's easier for me to relate to history when I have a link with particular people and places. McCullough established that link for me in this period of history, and for that I'm grateful. ...more I began reading John Adams four years ago, if you can believe it. Somewhere along the way I set it down and failed to pick it up again until a few weeks ago. I was a fan of David McCullough before I read John Adams, but it has certainly deepened my respect for this incredibly gifted historian. I think it\u2019s rare for a biographer to leave you with the feeling that you don\u2019t just know about the subject, but that you actually know the subject on a personal level. And that is exactly what McCullough I began reading John Adams four years ago, if you can believe it. Somewhere along the way I set it down and failed to pick it up again until a few weeks ago. I was a fan of David McCullough before I read John Adams, but it has certainly deepened my respect for this incredibly gifted historian. I think it\u2019s rare for a biographer to leave you with the feeling that you don\u2019t just know about the subject, but that you actually know the subject on a personal level. And that is exactly what McCullough accomplished with this portrait of one of the most remarkable and heretofore overlooked founding fathers in our nation\u2019s history. \u2014 Kate Scott from The Best Books We Read In November: http://bookriot.com/2015/11/30/riot-r... ...more Adams always seemed like a dumpy old president, but the man was incredibly physically and intellectually rigorous, and without his undaunted labors that were often overlooked, we might not have had the necessary support to win the war against the British. McMullough is a master. He takes musty old documents and makes them read like fast-paced fiction. This is such a well written, interesting book. I keep wishing we had a John Adams to vote for this November. The caveat for me is that there is so much content to this book I need to continually take a break and do some light reading between and/or at the same time. Highly recommended for any American history buff. I knew so little about Adams before reading this. I've heard some rank Jefferson as an historical figure they'd like to dine with: forget Jefferson! Adams is seemingly so under appreciated, but was a giant both in his role as a founder of the United States but also in character. I read John Adams largely because my grandfather's response when I told him I was reading Alexander Hamilton last year was \"I hear that John Adams biography is excellent.\" Additionally, I was interested because Hamilton was always at odds with him, but I like them both a great deal (and incidentally do not feel the same way about Thomas Jefferson). This book did not disappoint. McCullough masterfully selected quotations of Adams, Abigail, John Quincy, Benjamin Rush, Jefferson, and other major pla I read John Adams largely because my grandfather's response when I told him I was reading Alexander Hamilton last year was \"I hear that John Adams biography is excellent.\" Additionally, I was interested because Hamilton was always at odds with him, but I like them both a great deal (and incidentally do not feel the same way about Thomas Jefferson). This book did not disappoint. McCullough masterfully selected quotations of Adams, Abigail, John Quincy, Benjamin Rush, Jefferson, and other major players in Adams's life, and incorporated them without disrupting the prose. Every thirty pages or so I found a quote so striking that I wrote it down in a little notebook, or marked the page number on the post-it I used as a bookmark. Through quotes and narrative alike, the book illustrates the remarkable, influential man John Adams was, from his years negotiating peace and loans in Europe to his one term as the nation's second President. Adams's thoughts on education, slavery, war, and the dangers of faction are compelling; his conduct in the face of constantly being misunderstood complicated and sympathetic; his ever-present integrity inspiring. In fact, at least for the moment, the admiration I've developed for Adams through McCullough's book has rendered my regard for Hamilton something closer to an infatuation. If the book has one flaw, it is in McCullough's confrontation of Adams's. Whereas the picture of Adams is for the most part brilliantly developed, the book at some point discusses his lapses in judgment, his temper, his indignation, as if it were assumed knowledge. True, these aspects of his personality were likely not as well preserved for history in letters, but I would have liked this to be fleshed out more and earlier on. This is not to say that McCullough pedestalizes Adams; I only wished to understand better these qualities of his. Also, McCullough handles some of Adams's obtrusive character traits quite well - I literally giggled imagining Adams presiding over the first Senate debates, unable to refrain from butting in in spite of his own intentions to refrain from doing so. I cannot neglect to mention Abigail in discussing her husband's biography. John and Abigail had a great romance of the kind I had sort of thought rare in general, but especially in that era. Their need for each other, the pain they express at being apart, their unyielding support for one another, and the deep deep friendship that resulted in Abigail's fond salutation to Adams as her \"dearest friend,\" shine through in the book to demonstrate their unique bond. Intellectual, opinionated Abigail was a treat to read about. Her accounts of France in general were fabulous, and one of the highights of the entire book for me was her description of meeting and despising a preeminent French woman Benjamin Franklin had raved about (page 305-06). Less substantive matters - the book includes a family tree chart at the beginning that I constantly referred back to. The part and chapter breaks were appropriate, and the index is comprehensive and easy to navigate. Finally, a word about length: this is a book you have to be a bit patient with. It's about 700 pages long and starts off in a slow, arguably boring description of Adams's simple beginning as the son of a New England farmer, facts which of course literally define Adams. Stick with it through the first hundred pages or so, resign yourself to at least a couple of months with it, and what you never knew about Adams is sure to enrich your understanding of the fascinating times in which he lived. ...more David McCullough\u2019s JOHN ADAMS paints a vivid portrait of Adams the patriot and Adams the man. Well-written and engaging, it relies in large part on Adams\u2019s voluminous correspondence \u2013 with his wife Abigail and with friends and public figures. At times I thought the picture was a bit one-sided. Despite making some mistakes and being decidedly irascible, Adams is depicted as the true patriot, who doggedly pursued his beliefs against all odds to do what was best for the country. His selflessness, h David McCullough\u2019s JOHN ADAMS paints a vivid portrait of Adams the patriot and Adams the man. Well-written and engaging, it relies in large part on Adams\u2019s voluminous correspondence \u2013 with his wife Abigail and with friends and public figures. At times I thought the picture was a bit one-sided. Despite making some mistakes and being decidedly irascible, Adams is depicted as the true patriot, who doggedly pursued his beliefs against all odds to do what was best for the country. His selflessness, humility and New England thrift are presented as a marked contrast to many of his contemporaries, most notably Thomas Jefferson, who also takes a beating for being a political intriguer, even though he and Adams were reconciled near the end of their lives. I do not know the period well, however, so I am provisionally willing to accept McCullough\u2019s portrayal. Perhaps biographies of Washington, Jefferson, and Alexander Hamilton (who is portrayed in the book as a brilliant but insane scumbag) would tell a different story. I recommend this book highly to anyone interested in early American history or presidential biography. ...more Wheeeeeere's Johnny? Thanks to David McCullough 's 2002 Pulitzer Prize winning biography Adams will no longer be overlooked as a lesser president of the United States. Although our currency fails to recognize him, that's never been much of a big deal to me, as my wallet generally fails to recognize any currency... they're so rarely acquainted: John Adams - the president - was complex, ambitious, decisive. John Adams - the book - is complex, ambitious, definitive, and a remarkably readable master Wheeeeeere's Johnny? Thanks to David McCullough 's 2002 Pulitzer Prize winning biography Adams will no longer be overlooked as a lesser president of the United States. Although our currency fails to recognize him, that's never been much of a big deal to me, as my wallet generally fails to recognize any currency... they're so rarely acquainted: John Adams - the president - was complex, ambitious, decisive. John Adams - the book - is complex, ambitious, definitive, and a remarkably readable masterpiece. McCullough doesn't get bogged down in the tedium of mind-numbing details, and instead writes the book in more of a narrative form, starting with Adams family history, but focusing on his career in politics. Before I go on, I have to say I was apprehensive about reading this after seeing the family tree at the beginning. Six John Adams? 4 Abigail Adams? 3 Williams? 3 Thomas's? 3 Susannas? Seriously, whoever wrote The Very First Big Book of Baby Names deserves a prize. Too bad it wasn't around in 1691... (parenthetical aside: I'm a little sensitive to this right now as I recently read One Hundred Years of Solitude , and everybody had the same name in that book.) Adams' life was eventful. Oh, to be blessed and cursed to live in the times of such change. There's so much that is telling about his life - of his intelligence, integrity, his ambition and conceit. Although a steadfast patriot, he represented the Redcoats charged with murder in the Boston Massacre. (It is also telling that his friend - a Tory - was the prosecutor.) He took the case when no one else would because, \"no one in a free country should be denied the right to counsel and a fair trial.\" (pg 66) The love and devotion he and Abigail had for each other is nothing short of amazing. Truly, they were soul mates - if ever there was such a thing. They spent roughly ten years apart, due to his devotion to the nation. Yet their love never faltered. Their correspondence is remarkable in volume and substance - to think they were writing it all in a time before the internet, when the news they'd get could be months old - if it arrived at all. The transparency seen in their letters is a beautiful (albeit slightly voyeuristic) look into who they were and how they loved. Abigail, in a letter to James Lovell (pg 262) writes of her husband, \"Yet it wounds me, sir. When he is wounded, I bleed.\" They are a couple worth emulating. They endured. They endured. There's a lot made of Adams' time as president, and before as a politician, his hand in The Declaration, his friendship with Jefferson. I won't go into all that, because it's found elsewhere. (I will say, I loved the part where Jefferson was listening to Congress dissect The Declaration of Independence... ouch...) Yes, there was a rift between them that was bridged. Yes, they both died on the same day, July 4th - 50 years after the signing. (Note just the same date, but the same DAY.) Yes, the country took it as a sign... That is remarkable. What I find more remarkable is that Jefferson died $100,000 in debt after railing about debt. And Adams died with $100,000 to his name. Jefferson's acceptance and affection for the French Revolution is appalling, and horrific - especially given the fact that he didn't free his own slaves. Slavery, well... let's not even go there during this review... The book was great. You should read it. Before I leave this conclusionless review though, let me say one more thing that I liked - the parts at the beginning before John was in politics, while he was still a teacher. The things he said solidified my view that things were neither better, nor worse back then... people were people. Human nature does not change. Of course, I can't find it now... but John said he thought students responded better to a little praise and encouragement, rather than a \"thwacking.\" If I find that quote, I'm going to hang it on my wall. ...more What can I say? This book took me months to read and challenged my thinking on a number of preconceptions I had about the Revolution and the Founders. Instead of \"correcting\" me and forcing me into a new way of thinking, McCullough gently and deftly inspired me to soak in everything he had to say about Adams and to seek out biographies of other Founders to compare and contrast the men, their ideas and their accounts of history. This book is verbose but in a very engaging and pleasant way. It wou What can I say? This book took me months to read and challenged my thinking on a number of preconceptions I had about the Revolution and the Founders. Instead of \"correcting\" me and forcing me into a new way of thinking, McCullough gently and deftly inspired me to soak in everything he had to say about Adams and to seek out biographies of other Founders to compare and contrast the men, their ideas and their accounts of history. This book is verbose but in a very engaging and pleasant way. It would seem to the reader that McCullough believes Adams to be the primary hero of our nation's birth and establishment and I suspect that he might be right. I knew little of Adams before reading this text but I have fallen in love with he and Abigail and plan to read their letters as a follow up. I wish that every high school in America would throw away their white washed, pc, editorialist American history textbooks and require all students to read biographies like this. Our passion for America, her heroes and her challenges could only be kindled by such a move. ...more I finished it! This book took me a while to read, but it's well worth it! McCullough gives such a personal view into who John and Abigail, actually the whole Adams family, really were. And they were truly wonderful, honest, patriots, full of integrity, and not afraid of hard work for their country. John and his wife Abagail wrote over a thousand letters to each other and these and countless more to other family and friends, including Jefferson who became a friend while they were both working in I finished it! This book took me a while to read, but it's well worth it! McCullough gives such a personal view into who John and Abigail, actually the whole Adams family, really were. And they were truly wonderful, honest, patriots, full of integrity, and not afraid of hard work for their country. John and his wife Abagail wrote over a thousand letters to each other and these and countless more to other family and friends, including Jefferson who became a friend while they were both working in France during the revolutionary war. The friendship between the Adams and Jefferson is remarkably documented. Jefferson was much more reserved and his character may not have been as pure as history remembers him....although I have always wondered how a slave owner could really have written ..all men are created equal. He didnt really believe that, and appears to have been a misogynist as well. While John and Abigail had some very prophetic views of what slavery was going to eventually do to the nation. The relationship between John and Abagail was so close. They were truly best friends in love. We are lucky this family saved all their letters, and wrote so candidly! because it gives us an insightfull and accurate look into the people of the time. I recommend this book to anyone whos interested in what the founding fathers were really like, or the events of the revolution. ...more McCullough dazzled with his depiction of Harry Truman and brings that passion now to look at the life of John Adams. As he tackles the more daunting task of bringing this Founding Father and former president to life, through a plethora of research and historical tomes, McCullough illustrates the varied life Adams lived and the complexities of his journey. Presenting Adams as both a man of the people and a politically-minded gentleman, McCullough shows how he shaped the formation of the United St McCullough dazzled with his depiction of Harry Truman and brings that passion now to look at the life of John Adams. As he tackles the more daunting task of bringing this Founding Father and former president to life, through a plethora of research and historical tomes, McCullough illustrates the varied life Adams lived and the complexities of his journey. Presenting Adams as both a man of the people and a politically-minded gentleman, McCullough shows how he shaped the formation of the United States and led it through its early years. Crossing paths with numerous greats, Adams not only took from them but also added some of his own ideas, which benefitted all who took the time to synthesise the discussion. Throughout the biography, McCullough shows three predominant sides to Adams, all of which play an important part in his entire personality: Adams the advocate, the political leader, and the family man, though not necessarily in that order of importance. Written in a clear and fluid manner, McCullough does an amazing job of showing John Adams to be more than a stuffy politician who signed the Declaration of Independence. I have new-found respect and admiration for Adams and took way so much from this one book, as I do whenever I give McCullough the chance to teach. McCullough makes reference throughout that Adams enjoyed playing the role of advocate, especially for the underprivileged. In his early years as a lawyer, Adams handled defending those whom others would not assist, citing that he wanted to grow both in his knowledge of the law as well as strongly believing that everyone deserved a proper defence. McCullough shows that Adams sought to use his way with words (both the written and spoken) to present as strong a case as possible, no matter the defendant. One might extend this advocacy to Adams' role in Philadelphia, where he acted as one of Massachusetts' representatives at the Continental Congress. Adams planted the seed of formal independence from Britain in the minds of many, through speeches and shaped legislation. McCullough comments that Adams sought to advocate as vociferously as possible against the oppressive George III and tried to promote the idea of an independent country whose rights ought to be held in Congress, not some far-off parliament with no representation. McCullough illustrates Adams' passion for independence and while some of the pre-conference happenings receive but a passing mention (Boston Tea Party, for example), the actual constitutional discussions at the Congress receives much attention and exemplifies how Adams shone repeatedly. After declaring their independent interests in 1776, Congress sent Adams abroad to advocate for treaties of support and commerce in France, as well as peace with England when it became clear that George III's armies would be no match for Washington's forces. Congress went so far as to appoint Adams as the first Ambassador to the Court of St. James', an awkward honour in which Adams thrived. While these were by no means simplistic jobs, Adams took them as challenges in which personal growth was assured. McCullough depicts the trials and tribulations throughout these journeys, binding them together with the thread of intense interest to advocate for what Adams felt was right for all. As a political leader, Adams looked past his own interests and pushed ideas of the greater whole while working in Congress and overseas. The oft stated belief that a leader ought to look outside themselves and seek what is best for the entire populace may have been based on Adams' life, as he tried to lead others when little or no precedent existed. Working to create a constitution for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Adams drew on some of the key aspects found within the Declaration of Independence (something he thought might be tasked to him before he passed it along to Jefferson), and added key tenets that he felt were best for all those living there, Adams tried to lead by example and to use his passion for his home state (province in the early years) to better everyone. As mentioned above, Adam sought also to lead in his roles as plenipotentiary minister to both The Netherlands (an interesting story told by McCullough about how Adams scored this post) and England, seeking to forge new alliances and political ground for the newly-born state. Through trials and tribulations abounded, Adams worked to foster needed relationships and climb the ladder of importance, which worked when Congress eventually named him the first vice-president of the United States in 1788. The role still new (and the constitution's depiction of the job description lacking), Adams tried to lead from the dais of the President of the Senate, injecting himself into debate and offering up many opinions. Not used to the role well founded now, the vice-president is better seen and not heard, waiting for the demise of the president to assume any true role. Still, through his pamphlet writing, Adams sought to lead the country through his ideas and political commentary on world events, most especially the French Revolution, drawing parallels to the happenings in 1776. Political leadership took on a new role when Adams narrowly defeated Jefferson (by a mere 3 votes) in the Electoral College in 1797. The presidential campaign of 1796 saw the birth of party politics in America. Tarred and feathered as a monarchist by many of those seeking to derail him, Adams had to shed the moniker in order to move forward and to keep him from the figurative (and perhaps literal) gallows. Forging ahead, Adams used a great deal of his political knowledge to act in as strong a capacity of president as he could. Faced with an openly volatile and confrontational vice-president, Jefferson, the nation faced its most strained administration. While Jefferson tried to set pitfalls for his president, congressional progress appeared glacial and the two parties (the Republicans and the Federalists) sought to stop the other from any crumb of success. McCullough presents much support for the argument that Adams' presidency was ultimately shaped by the post-revolutionary French government, which began goading America into war. Adams built up the needed defences, should war become necessary and proposed two major pieces of legislation to define America for decades thereafter, the Aliens Act, and the Sedition Act. He argued that these pieces of legislation would defend honour and patriotism within America and let foreign potentates know with whom they were dealing. While McCullough posits that peace was Adams' ultimate goal, this is hard to see amongst the military chest bumping. While making the ultimate decision to seek peace, Adams ruffled the feathers of many and may have cast himself in a poor light from thereon in in the eyes of Jefferson and other key Republicans. However, it is his prerogative to do so. This paved the way for the highly vicious campaign of 1800, pitting president against vice-president for the first and only time in history. McCullough presents a highly intriguing story surrounding this campaign and the dirty politicking for which America would eventually become known. McCullough further posits that the outcome of that election hinged greatly on Adams' decision not to go to war with France. Perhaps his greatest role, seen as a major arc throughout the tome, is that of a family man. McCullough uses this role as an overarching one throughout the book. Abigail Adams plays a central role in the story of John Adams' life and there is no section found therein that McCullough does not have some reference to her importance in his life. Adams valued his family above all others and tried to include them wherever he could. Granted, looking at things through the lens of the time, some might query his dedication to family and he and Abigail discuss stillbirths and deaths by letter, but there is no doubt that Adams did all he did to better the lives of his wife and children, going so far as to bring his sons with him to France and The Netherlands on various plenipotentiary missions. His constant letters to Abigail and the detail in which he discussed his adventures, as well as the poetic way in which he waxed wand waned about missing his brood shows how dedicated he was to their inclusion in his life. McCullough does a wonderful job illustrating this through the book's numerous parts and keeps the theme of family predominant throughout the numerous segues. Bringing family along with him on his numerous political appointments, Adams sought to enrich their lives as much as his own, exemplifying his dedication to the family unit. McCullough shows a strongly supportive father and keen head of household whose determination to open new paths for his children as a central tenet of the biography. Even through his trying years as president, Adams always kept his family close at hand, especially Abigail's near death at the hand of yellow fever. He juggled things as best he could, never shutting him family out to run the executive of the country. Of interest, McCullough does not isolate the story to the life of John Adams and family. Numerous, detailed accounts of some of the other Founding Fathers and key actors in the rise of American independence whose interactions with Adams were central tasks undertaken by McCullough throughout. Jefferson, Washington, Franklin, and even Madison all receive great attention from McCullough and offer a teaser to the biographical backgrounds of each. Jefferson surely played a significant role in Adams' life, even if they did eventually distance themselves when wearing their respective political hats. The executive clashes between Washington and Adams would likely be accentuated with an alternate perspective, making Ron Chernow's biography of Washington essential. In the same light, Jon Meacham will surely help show Jefferson's side to the numerous clashes with Adams, both as Founding Fathers and within the executive. Some great storytelling surrounding the difficulties Adams and Franklin faced while working 'together' in France may give the reader a new perspective on both, though surely that is to be expected in such a thoroughly documented tome. One area I had hoped would receive more attention (though the length of the tome justifies its exclusion) is the debates surrounding the independence movement and eventual creation of the Constitution of the United States. Being an institutional reformer, I find it interesting to see where the constitutional seeds germinated and some of the important aspects arose. From his Truman biography, I know that McCullough does present electoral campaigns in a highly detailed fashion. While 1896 was a mere blink of the eye, the re-election campaign of 1800 proved highly entertaining. Kudos do not seem to be enough to encapsulate how much I enjoyed this biography. Choosing a well-known president (by name, but not necessarily by background) appears to be a strength for McCullough as he weaves the detailed background of their lives, their successes and more certainly their demises. I learned more about early America (and the roots about some of the current goings-on) than I have in all my reading to date. Thank you so very much for this and I hope to dive into another McCullough classic soon. ...more It is April 21, 2016 and I am experiencing this book for the second time. This time I am listening to the Audible format. I have recently listened to Alexander Hamilton and thought John Adams was not treated very well in that book and wondered how you would be treated in a book that was focused on him. Adam spent about two years in France during the time of the Revolutionary war. He returned to Massachusetts and almost immediately began work on the Massachusetts constitution. After a brief return It is April 21, 2016 and I am experiencing this book for the second time. This time I am listening to the Audible format. I have recently listened to Alexander Hamilton and thought John Adams was not treated very well in that book and wondered how you would be treated in a book that was focused on him. Adam spent about two years in France during the time of the Revolutionary war. He returned to Massachusetts and almost immediately began work on the Massachusetts constitution. After a brief return to Massachusetts John Adams returns to Europe and eventually is joined by his wife and family. He spends time as a diplomat in Paris along with Franklin and Jefferson. As these books that are appearing to be about one individual there are significant diversions the cover other of their contemporaries. I find those diversions less satisfying since they are generally fairly cursory. In this case a good deal is made of Jefferson. The meeting between John Adams as the first ambassador to England after the war with the king of England is indeed A historic event that I have never before focused on. I was moved hearing it. So what does an ambassador to England do in 1784? One of the more interesting activities is negotiating the treaty with the country of Tripoly to protect American shipping from the Barbary pirates. John Adams felt that he had accomplished very little in the diplomatic arena so as the time of the American constitutional convention came closer he switched gears and began to write about his philosophy of eight federal government and he requested that he be withdrawn from his London ambassadorship and return to the US. That's becomes a whole new era for this man. On his way home across the ocean to Massachusetts John Adams thought he would just retire to Braintree his long time home. He had traveled 29,000 miles in service to his country. When he got back to Braintree he embarked on a farmers life. But there was talk of him becoming the vice president or the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court in the media. he had decided that he would accept the rule of vice president but nothing less. We all know he got that position. It took the Senate a month to decide the title for George Washington. John Adams was only supposed to moderate the Senate debate but couldn't keep his mouth shut and contributed much to the extended debate. He wanted His Excellency or His Majesty but fortunately lost. But the suspicions that he was a monarchist at heart grew.h Jeffersons reason versus Adams passion are subject to a good examination and discussion. This is also in the context of the French Revolution. Adams also opposed the gradual formation of two political parties. Adams is portrayed as a president who began the Navy and was enthusiastic about it but who also opposed to standing army and dissolved it when it appeared that there would not be a war with France. His efforts to avoid a war with France are emphasized. The story of his failure to be reelected and the involvement of Alexander Hamilton in that is fascinating. The mudslinging nature of the campaign shows that was a part of politics right from the start. John and Abigail Adams were the first to live in Washington DC when they moved there from Philadelphia at the end of his term. The story ends are in great debt to the fact that people including the founding fathers corresponded at great length and left their letters for posterity. The story of John Adams after leaving the presidency is filled by such correspondence including a significant exchange of letters over a number of years between Adams and Thomas Jefferson. My experience of this book in the Audible for about four years after I first read it as vastly improved my appreciation for the work and I have increased my esteem from three stars to five stars. I am now fully involved in reading biographies of the founding fathers and I am enjoying the experience. One aspect of this particular biography is its focus on the participation of Abigail Adams on the career of her husband. I highly recommend this biography in the Audible format. ...more Well-researched, incredibly detailed, and well written. A bit long in parts and not too many note worthy moments. All in all, I enjoyed getting to know John Adams on a personal level, but I wouldn't recommend this biography to anyone unless they specifically wanted to know more about this important figure. Finally finished this book tonight. Couldn't sleep until I finished it. It is so good that it's no wonder the author won a Pulitzer Prize for it! You have got to read this book! More reviews at The Story Within The Story Among the founding fathers, perhaps no one\u2019s contributions to the revolution and to liberty are less understood than those of John Adams. But it was his fierce independence, unarguable brilliance and absolute moral grounding that made him in indispensable part of the American Revolution. If Washington was the face of the new nation, and Jefferson was the voice, then Adams was most certainly its heart. \u201cThe longer I live, the more I read, the more patien More reviews at The Story Within The Story Among the founding fathers, perhaps no one\u2019s contributions to the revolution and to liberty are less understood than those of John Adams. But it was his fierce independence, unarguable brilliance and absolute moral grounding that made him in indispensable part of the American Revolution. If Washington was the face of the new nation, and Jefferson was the voice, then Adams was most certainly its heart. \u201cThe longer I live, the more I read, the more patiently I think and the more anxiously I inquire, the less I seem to know\u2026do justly. Love mercy. Walk humbly. This is enough.\u201d As David McCullough so thoroughly demonstrates, the accomplishments of John Adams cannot be overstated. And while McCullough does a superb job of cataloging both the pieces and the whole of John Adams, it is his writing style that so completely brings us to know John Adams as both a person and a statesman even two hundred years after his death. As he mentions in the afterward, nobody during the revolution wrote as much as John Adams did\u2026not even close. Just his correspondence between him and his valiant wife Abigail will fill tens of volumes of history. Somehow McCullough manages to take the impossibly large collection of writings and not only condense them into a single resource; he is able to piece it together masterfully. But John Adams isn\u2019t just a history lesson\u2026it is a love story. His love of his children, his friends and his country are poignant. However, no love was greater than for his wife and best friend Abigail. Not only was she the rock that his whole existence leaned upon, but she was his sounding board on politics. No woman in the revolution had more influence on the birth of the new nation than Abigail Adams did. Still, it was John and Abigail\u2019s passionate love for each other that allowed John\u2019s greatest contributions to come to pass. I could point out all of the amazing accomplishments that John Adams managed in his illustrious 91 year life, but I would be better served to simply say \u2013 buy this book! It was a joy to read, insightful in its detail and immensely readable. If you are going to read only one book about the American Revolution at all, start and end with John Adams. Not only will David McCullough\u2019s masterpiece give you more information than any other, it will leave you both in awe of John Adams and the special times he lived in. Simply the best biography of its kind and a must-read! ...more Popular history. That's what this book is. David McCullough is obviously engaged with his story; he likes Adams, respects the Founders, and knows his history. But he seems shackled by having to tell two stories at the same time, while making both flow into one accessible and engaging narrative. The first story is the political one. Adams the politician is an energetic, combative creature, not afraid to step on toes or burn bridges in the name of principle. McCullough cuts no corners in fleshing o Popular history. That's what this book is. David McCullough is obviously engaged with his story; he likes Adams, respects the Founders, and knows his history. But he seems shackled by having to tell two stories at the same time, while making both flow into one accessible and engaging narrative. The first story is the political one. Adams the politician is an energetic, combative creature, not afraid to step on toes or burn bridges in the name of principle. McCullough cuts no corners in fleshing out the particulars of the contemporary political issues, but they still manage to get overshadowed by the force of Adams's personality and thus lose a bit of clarity and readability. The length of the book calls for a little more explanation of ideologies and party lines than McCullough bothers to give, and that cripples the large part of the book he devotes to the political scene. He also intermittently fails to analyze specifically Adams's role in the general drama, which makes it even more trying to follow. There are highlights: Jefferson's (sometimes turbulent) relationship with Adams is studied in careful detail, with interesting implications. The turbulence of these early times in general are conveyed with verve and detail; the importance of this juncture in American history comes through loud and clear. The second story is the personal one. The relationship beween Adams and his wife is the centerpiece of the book: an affectionate, engaging affair between two bright and independent minds. The amount of attention given to Mrs Adams forms in itself a worthwhile picture of female life in colonial America, as well a fitting tribute to the exceptional mind that Mrs Adams had. The major failing of the book is that the two stories aren't given mutual context. It seems unlikely that a man with as rich a personal life as Adams would be as unaffected by it in his public life as this book conveys. I felt that McCullough saved his best efforts for the personal story that he enjoyed telling, while giving the political narrative only by grudging rote. This made it difficult to read the book as a unified whole. A shame, since even the more neglected areas of Adams's life seemed to offer something worthwhile. A solid popular history, but rather too ambitious for it's scope and achievement. ...more One of the challenges of writing a biography is to know when to stop. In the case of Adams, McCullough has so much material from which to draw that the opportunity to present intimate detail could soon render it unreadable. McCullough is a masterful biographer and in this case does an skillful job at skirting the fine line between an insightful portrait and drowning us in minutia. Beyond just exploring Adams' role in the host of world-changing events that took place in his lifetime, McCullough do One of the challenges of writing a biography is to know when to stop. In the case of Adams, McCullough has so much material from which to draw that the opportunity to present intimate detail could soon render it unreadable. McCullough is a masterful biographer and in this case does an skillful job at skirting the fine line between an insightful portrait and drowning us in minutia. Beyond just exploring Adams' role in the host of world-changing events that took place in his lifetime, McCullough does an exceptional job of presenting key details of the personalities around Adams that a full picture of Adams' world and its challenges comes into relief. As in McCullough's other works, the relationships between Adams and key figures of his day are fascinating, and fully explored. The relationship between Adams and Jefferson is developed at length, and in many ways that relationship defines the high and low points of both mens' lives. The risk taken by any biographer is that they become so immersed in the life of their subject that they become either an extreme apologist for or extremely disgusted with their subject. In this case, it seems that the further he got into Adams' life, the more McCullough apologetic he becomes. For example, Adams' role in the passage of the alien and sedition acts is glossed over despite their gravity. And while not as guilty of his peers of engaging in the newly created sport of party politics, Adams clearly had some talent for it. The lack of exploration of ways that Adams showed political skill late in his career leaves a hole in the understanding of his full character. Despite this, I cannot recommend enough that this book be read. The quotes from Adams alone, and their sometimes striking meaning in today's political environment make it worth the read. The depth of the story will leave you satisfied and with a much deeper understanding of America's past. ...more \"Our obligations to our country never cease but with our lives.\" - John Adams Fantastic book! I knew very little about John Adams going into this one. As the second POTUS he was the first of too many things to count: - First V.P. to run for President - First one term President/First President voted out of office - Ugliest President (Tie with his son) - First President with no military background Such an interesting life! He held foreign diplomatic positions in England and France. He was enemies, then \"Our obligations to our country never cease but with our lives.\" - John Adams Fantastic book! I knew very little about John Adams going into this one. As the second POTUS he was the first of too many things to count: - First V.P. to run for President - First one term President/First President voted out of office - Ugliest President (Tie with his son) - First President with no military background Such an interesting life! He held foreign diplomatic positions in England and France. He was enemies, then friends, then enemies, then friends with Thomas Jefferson. His wife, Abigail, would prove to be the model for all future first wives. She was smart, beautiful, supportive, and refused to be pushed around. Adams was one of the only founding fathers to be completely anti-slavery and gave Jefferson guff about it his entire life. He lived to be 90 in a time when life expectancy was somewhere around 58. He was an intellectual, a jabbermouth, and a true patriot. He kept America out of a war with France which ultimately led to the Louisiana Purchase. Staying out of that war is what probably got him voted out of office. Imagine this country without the Louisiana Purchase! Insanity. He was often accused of supporting monarchical government but little in his actions bore this out. I mean, he helped draft the Constitution for Pete's sake! I suspect Adams supported an intellectual monarchy, meaning let the most intelligent members of society rule, which I'm totally on board with. I enjoyed this book much more than McCullough's work on Truman. You really feel like you get to know Adams after reading this work and more than that, you understand the rationale behind his decision-making process. ...more I am intimidated by huge books. This book at over 700 pages seemed very daunting to me, so I tackled it with a buddy. I was fascinated! It was obvious to me that David McCullough had gained an admiration for John Adams and his wife, Abigail, because he was able to write of him and his life in a way that communicated the man and his times positively to me. John Adams was a man, not a saint. He wanted to be liked and appreciated as much as anyone, but he was also dedicated to serving his country. He I am intimidated by huge books. This book at over 700 pages seemed very daunting to me, so I tackled it with a buddy. I was fascinated! It was obvious to me that David McCullough had gained an admiration for John Adams and his wife, Abigail, because he was able to write of him and his life in a way that communicated the man and his times positively to me. John Adams was a man, not a saint. He wanted to be liked and appreciated as much as anyone, but he was also dedicated to serving his country. He also was sustained by a deep love for his wife, his family and his farm. It was also through this book that I learned more about the history of my own country. I was astonished to learn that the US incurred debt even before it was fully formed as a nation, that media/political snipping against a president started with the FIRST president, and that John Adams' ideas of how government should be designed was very close to what we actually have. I also appreciated the insight into the characters of George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, among others. I think I have Mr. McCullough's book on Truman on my shelves. I might get up the nerve to tackle that one next year. ...more After reading David McCullough\u2019s outstanding biography, I now have a new favorite president. John Adams was advocate for the declaration of independence in congress, the young lawyer willing to defend the British soldiers accused in the Boston massacre, the President who avoided war with the French, the envoy and ambassador to Britain and France. Adams was passionate, opinionated, objective, a scholar committed to books and reading, and an incorruptible champion for his country. Adams greatest b After reading David McCullough\u2019s outstanding biography, I now have a new favorite president. John Adams was advocate for the declaration of independence in congress, the young lawyer willing to defend the British soldiers accused in the Boston massacre, the President who avoided war with the French, the envoy and ambassador to Britain and France. Adams was passionate, opinionated, objective, a scholar committed to books and reading, and an incorruptible champion for his country. Adams greatest blessing was his supportive and capable wife, Abigail. A central theme was his long and tumultuous relationship with Thomas Jefferson, whose character suffers by comparison with Adams. I was especially taken by Adams\u2019 vulnerability and sense of failure in his early days as an envoy to France with Benjamin Franklin. His ability to overcome this \u201cfailure\u201d is a lesson to us all. McCullough was able to document Adams\u2019 life so well because of his voluminous correspondence with Abigail, Jefferson, and his good friend Benjamin Rush. Modern biographers will have to cope with the dearth of detailed information from the pen of the subject with the demise of letters. ...more McCullough\u2019s John Adams is a perfectly executed biography. It was simultaneously a deeply interesting read, and a somewhat humbling experience as it revealed my positively woeful grasp of Revolutionary War history. I went into this book not really knowing anything about John Adams other than that he was a signer of the Declaration of Independence, our second President, and a man who had a famously devoted relationship with his wife. I came out of reading this feeling amazed that a man who contri McCullough\u2019s John Adams is a perfectly executed biography. It was simultaneously a deeply interesting read, and a somewhat humbling experience as it revealed my positively woeful grasp of Revolutionary War history. I went into this book not really knowing anything about John Adams other than that he was a signer of the Declaration of Independence, our second President, and a man who had a famously devoted relationship with his wife. I came out of reading this feeling amazed that a man who contributed so significantly and profoundly to our country\u2019s founding could be so largely forgotten. One of the most fundamental lessons I gained from this biography is the troubling reliance I, and presumably plenty of other people with expensive educations, have on the sort of history taught in fifth-grade social studies class. Thomas Jefferson was a paragon of virtue, democracy, and liberality. Americans overwhelmingly favored independence and had a unified idea of what that actually would entail. George III was an evil tyrant. The scrappy determination of the Continental Army defeated superior might the British forces. I know these things because the book more or less said so, there were nice color illustrations of heroic-looking founding fathers leading bedraggled troops and signing documents, and we made tricorn hats out of construction paper to whimsically reinforce the lesson. But of course it\u2019s all complete, nonsensical rubbish. The insidious part of it is that my brain doesn\u2019t register it as rubbish until it is confronted with unassailable facts to the contrary. And let\u2019s be honest \u2013 it hurts a little bit to let go of these cherish, simplistic understandings. The question that unfortunately begs to be asked is what other grade-school nonsense am I happily believing without knowing any better? But back to the book. This read, in many ways, like a diplomatic history of 1770s-1810s America. And it was fascinating. I love this stuff. The pencil pushers and bean counters like Mr. Adams are the ones who make history actually happen, only it\u2019s so plainly unromantic it doesn\u2019t get the press of Valley Forge and the crossing of the Delaware and all of that. Adams did serious heavy lifting in the Continental Congress as an advocate for independence and in the framing of our system of government; he especially fought for separation of powers and the necessity of a bicameral legislature. He served as a diplomatic envoy to France, the Netherlands, and Britain. He wrangled loans from the Dutch that saved our financial bacon during the war. He negotiated treaties and pled our cause to anyone who would listen in Europe. He was a classical scholar of voracious intellectual appetite and he taught himself French and Dutch with startling success because it simply needed to be done. He was a devoutly religious man whose faith produced practical results of moral steadfastness and honor rather than simpering piety or intolerant meanness. He abhorred slavery and, unlike many of our founding fathers, practiced what he preached on the subject. But best of all, John Adams was a writer. Literally thousands of his letters survive, and they paint a vivid contemporary picture of the man himself. His energy and passion leap from his words. John Adams is simply a very likeable man, and not at all the cranky old guy I always took him for from his picture. Similarly, his son John Quincy Adams is vastly more interesting than I ever gave him credit for. John Adams\u2019 correspondence with his remarkable wife Abigail gives such clear insight into the nature of their relationship; this is a 18th century man who holds the opinions and counsel of his wife \u2013 on political subjects and otherwise \u2013 in the highest esteem. In fact, he pleads with her at various times to join him in his various posts because he feels unequal to his task without her presence. Abigail is an impressive lady; she ran a large farm operation completely on her own for much of her married life, she took care of a her family during war time primarily on her own, she was a model of New England thrift and Protestant work ethic, and she demonstrated a clear and unflinching understanding of the politics of the day. They are a wonderful match and their devotion to each other is a joy to read. Beyond his detailing of Adams\u2019 many accomplishments, I found the parts about Thomas Jefferson to be some of the author\u2019s most interesting work. Poor Jefferson dropped significantly in my eyes; McCullough paints him in a pretty bad light, even though he doesn\u2019t seem to take any pleasure in doing so. His hypocrisy is obvious, in that it takes a certain brazenness to simultaneously own several hundred of your fellow human being and shamelessly profit from their forced labor while writing beautiful statements about the self-evident truths of all men being created equal and endowed with inalienable rights by their Creator. I was unaware that he was a cheerleader for the French Revolution. I guess, frankly, I was unaware that anyone looked at that bloodbath with anything other than distain and pity. If this were 1790 and I actually had a vote, I would have been a firm Federalist, and I found his Republican machinations and the duplicitous manner in which he worked to undermine and discredit Adams, his former friend, to be positively distasteful. I also was completely ignorant of the fact that Jefferson pretty much single-handedly set up the Civil War with that incredibly dangerous legislation he secretly wrote that said if a state disagrees with something the federal government does, they don\u2019t really have an obligation to honor that law. Also, he was a profligate spend-thrift who seemed to value shopping over honoring his debts. Throughout his letters, Jefferson is cold and guarded and it plays so badly next to the warmth and sincerity of Adams. I devoured this biography and have already started McCullough\u2019s 1776 . I can\u2019t recommend this one enough. I think I have a new favorite Founding Father. ...more \"The happiness of the people was the purpose of government, he wrote, and therefore that form of government was best which produced the greatest amount of happiness for the largest number. And since all \"sober inquirers after truth\" agreed that happiness derived from virtue, that form of government with virtue as its foundation was more likely than any other to promote the general happiness.\" pg. 102 I have EIGHT pages of quotes I journaled from this fabulous book. It is very long and detailed a \"The happiness of the people was the purpose of government, he wrote, and therefore that form of government was best which produced the greatest amount of happiness for the largest number. And since all \"sober inquirers after truth\" agreed that happiness derived from virtue, that form of government with virtue as its foundation was more likely than any other to promote the general happiness.\" pg. 102 I have EIGHT pages of quotes I journaled from this fabulous book. It is very long and detailed and took me several months to read, but I learned so much about this amazing man, his unbelievable wife and the early years of my nation. The recent mini-series on TV did justice to the book and the man. A great read for anyone interested in American history, biographies, and/or inspirational self-help motivation. Also for intelligent women who work hard, sacrifice, and motivate their husbands to be their best. Hurrah for Abigail Adams, the unsung hero! ...more A well written book takes you on a ride through many emotions and John Adams definitely does that. I enjoyed the beginning, reading about the Revolutionary War from Congress' point of view rather than G. Washington's as in 1776 . I was soooo frustrated through the middle reading about political intrigues, backstabbing, and why is that worm Alexander Hamilton on the $10 bill anyway?!? And finally felt the peace of forgiveness and acceptance through Adams letters to and from Jefferson during the la A well written book takes you on a ride through many emotions and John Adams definitely does that. I enjoyed the beginning, reading about the Revolutionary War from Congress' point of view rather than G. Washington's as in 1776 . I was soooo frustrated through the middle reading about political intrigues, backstabbing, and why is that worm Alexander Hamilton on the $10 bill anyway?!? And finally felt the peace of forgiveness and acceptance through Adams letters to and from Jefferson during the last years of their lives. Did you know both men died on July 4th during the 50th anniversary celebration of our country? John Adams was an honorable patriot, a loyal husband, a great man. It was a pleasure to read his story. ...more I wish I could give this book 10 stars. David McCullough has written not only the best biography on the life of John Adams, until now one of America's most unappreciated founding fathers, but an incredible view into the age of the American Revolution. At times I felt as if I had traveled back into time and was watching the historical events fold before my eyes, seeing many events, sensing many emotions. John Adams was an original American Patriot, brilliant, one of courage and honor, but portray I wish I could give this book 10 stars. David McCullough has written not only the best biography on the life of John Adams, until now one of America's most unappreciated founding fathers, but an incredible view into the age of the American Revolution. At times I felt as if I had traveled back into time and was watching the historical events fold before my eyes, seeing many events, sensing many emotions. John Adams was an original American Patriot, brilliant, one of courage and honor, but portrayed also as a common man, who struggled with pride and ambition, experienced victory and loss. He adored his farm, deeply loved his wife, enjoyed all that life brought him, and struggled as all men do. This is a must read! ...more", "Title": "John Adams"},
