{"Comments": "<+++>Three Cups of Tea: One Man's Mission to Promote Peace ... One School at a Time</+++>Here are a few things I\u2019m suspicious of: 1.<---F> A book with two authors</---F>. It\u2019s kind of like having too many cooks in the kitchen. 2. A book in which one of the two authors is the main subject of the book. 3. A book in which even though one of the authors is the main subject of the book, the book is written in third person. 4. Cultural imperialism. With these four suspicions in mind, I started in on Three Cups of Tea, which was my book club\u2019s choice for this month. Mortenson is a quirky do-gooder who c Here are a few things I\u2019m suspicious of: 1. A book with two authors. It\u2019s kind of like having too many cooks in the kitchen. 2. A book in which one of the two authors is the main subject of the book. 3. A book in which even though one of the authors is the main subject of the book, the book is written in third person. 4. Cultural imperialism. With these four suspicions in mind, I started in on Three Cups of Tea, which was my book club\u2019s choice for this month. Mortenson is a quirky do-gooder who commits himself to building schools in Pakistan and Afghanistan in order to educate the poor (<---B>especially the girls</---B>) who are so often lost in the rural mountains of these isolated areas. He started his quest after stopping in a small village after failing to climb K2 in the early 1990s and since then has built over 50 schools,<---M> health centers</---M>, and women\u2019s centers. There were lots of things I liked about this book. First off, I love reading adventure stories about far-away places, and learning more about the variety of cultures in Islamic Pakistan and various other -stans was enough to pull me all the way through the book. I also love reading about single-minded esoteric people with crazy missions who stop at nothing to accomplish their goals. Thirdly, I love the idea of fighting the war on terror through education instead of fighting - it seems like it will be more successful long-term and way less expensive, not to mention way, way, less violent. I\u2019m not sure I was so hot on the book itself - the writing wasn\u2019t interesting (and it had so many chances to be) and, more importantly, the book was terribly skewed in Mortenson\u2019s direction. He\u2019s referred to as a hero at least a few times a chapter and praised non-stop by the people around him. Only smaller sub-prose hints clue you in to the real negative stuff - which I\u2019m as interested in as the positive stuff: Mortenson is kind of crazy and obsessed, he has trouble with delegating jobs to people and handling money, he unapologetically spends months and months away from his family in Montana. He seems to be hurting his health in order to continue with his cause. Now, I think these negatives could have been dealt with well by the authors - I don\u2019t think any hero is all good or absolutely flawless. In fact, most people who have ever accomplished great things have more than his or her share of weirdo personal problems. I would have loved for the book to explore his flaws in light of his accomplishments instead of brushing his flaws to the side and dropping the Hero-bomb over and over again. By the end of the book, I felt pretty good about his mission in general, thought. I haven\u2019t taken any developmental studies classes and I don\u2019t know much about rural development, but I can\u2019t see how building schools and educating girls could possibly hurt anything. I was impressed by the way Mortenson adapted to the Islamic culture - learning the languages, dressing the part, and even learning to pray to Allah. He didn\u2019t seem into forcing Western ideas onto the villages, beyond simple wants to educate and equalize. More than that, though, I was interested in learning about how the Taliban is using the same tactics as Mortenson in order to win support in these rural areas - and they are winning. They have already established tons of schools called madrassas in these places, barring women and teaching only Islam and warfare. They also offer something that is rare in these isolated areas: paid employment. If Mortenson is right, giving these people options other than joining the Taliban, and giving them schools where you learn basic skills instead of extremist propaganda, might be the best step toward a long-term solution for everyone. ...more This book is driving me fricking nuts. I'm struggling to finish it, and can I help it if I feel like a bad person for HATING this book even though I totally support its main purpose and the mission of the subject?? I hope not. Jeez, where do I start. The writing? It's terrible. I am now going to randomly pick a page, any page, and find a ridiculous, klunky morsel for you: \"Suleman sat like a smiling Buddha next to Mortensen, his arms crossed over the beginning of a pot belly.\" or, \"the inspiring vi This book is driving me fricking nuts. I'm struggling to finish it, and can I help it if I feel like a bad person for HATING this book even though I totally support its main purpose and the mission of the subject?? I hope not. Jeez, where do I start. The writing? It's terrible. I am now going to randomly pick a page, any page, and find a ridiculous, klunky morsel for you: \"Suleman sat like a smiling Buddha next to Mortensen, his arms crossed over the beginning of a pot belly.\" or, \"the inspiring view that greets these students from every classroom - the roof of the world, represented by Masherbrum's soaring summit ridge-has already helped convince many of Hushe's children to aim high.\" or, (my personal favorite) \"And by the time the rising sun iced the hanging glaciers of Masherbrum pale pink, like a gargantuan pastry dangling above them at breakfast time, Mortenson had agreed to shift the funds his board had approved for the doomed Khane school upside to this village whose headman had traveled so far downriver to educate himself.\" I could go on, but I'll spare you. If you'd like 350+ pages of the above prose, by all means read this book. What else besides the writing? The methods - I was always told that non-fiction writing is a pretty specific genre, and that if you don't have a quotation written down from a source, or have it recorded somehow, you don't use quotations at all. The whole time I'm reading, I keep thinking, \"there's no way Mortensen remembers every exact conversation he had 15 years ago!\" (and that's an exact quote from my brain, by the way). Plus, there are historical inaccuracies all over the place that made me question the validity of the hyperbolized text and the way in which the \"co-author\" (For Mortensen is the other) idolizes his subject beyond, well, objectivity. For example, there's an entire passage about the year 2000, when Mortensen is struggling with his lack of management skills, his frustration with the lack of sustainability of his foundation's finances, and fulfilling his duties to his family. He goes on a trip to SE Asia to observe other development projects, and ends up in Calcutta, and wouldn't you know it, Mother Teresa just died and he buys himself a big ole bouquet of flowers to honor her, and goes to pay his respects to her shrouded body. It's a quite moving passage (naturally it's littered with horrific metaphor, but I'll leave that alone for now), until it occurred to me that Mother Teresa died in 1997. Yeah, right after Princess Diana. I mean, I know that it's OK to take a little poetic license with this stuff, but the writer has Mortensen strutting his stuff triumphantly all over the Pakistani mountain ridges in 1997...guess it didn't fit in with the narrative arc that Mother Teresa had the indecency to die 3 years too early for Mortensen to mourn her loss at the same time he's reached his own personal crisis of faith. Wow this sounds bitter. I guess my ultimate point is this: I believe in community-driven development. I believe that education and other related iniatives create stronger societies and really work to promote peace and alleviate violence and terror. But for such an important topic, I really feel that Mortensen deserved a writer who could be more objective and yes, gasp!, critical at times. I am left disbelieving in this foundation, and I am skeptical of its management and practices. I am wary of those who claim to forge the solutions for all in one single bound. I hope that I read another account of Mortensen that changes my mind. This book did little for me but make me despair for the unmentioned NGOs and others who are working (likely) toward the same goal in the same region, without the benefit of collaboration with this Mortensen's access to resources. Oh yeah, and I resent the book jacket referring to Mortensen as a \"real-life Indiana Jones.\" sheesh. ...more EDIT: Just so you guys all know, the word \"Mortenson\" is in the text a total of 1,943 times. That's right. 1,943. What I wish to do so badly to this book. 0 of 5 stars Before I get started, I just want to say that no review I could ever write ever would ever portray how much this book sucked for me. To me, Three Cups of Tea is the perfect embodiment and representation of the most tragically horrible book I've ever read. In fact, for you today, I'm going to make a list of the 10 most tragic things i EDIT: Just so you guys all know, the word \"Mortenson\" is in the text a total of 1,943 times. That's right. 1,943. What I wish to do so badly to this book. 0 of 5 stars Before I get started, I just want to say that no review I could ever write ever would ever portray how much this book sucked for me. To me, Three Cups of Tea is the perfect embodiment and representation of the most tragically horrible book I've ever read. In fact, for you today, I'm going to make a list of the 10 most tragic things in Three Cups of Tea. The 10 Most Tragic Things In Three Cups of Tea (Not in Any Order) 1: The Stilted and Pretentious Writing Don't even get me started on the atrocious writing. Relin is the worst possible person anyone could've ever chosen to write Mortenson's story. In fact, if someone else would have written the book, I probably would've enjoyed it a lot more. It may even have been a three-star read for me, if it wasn't written in a horrid and stilted manner. Relin describes every single thing down to the last detail. I specifically remember an entire scene dedicated to the entire biography of someone completely irrelevant to the book at all, some climber woman who was really brave and all that crap. Another two chapters were backstory and DIDN'T ADVANCE THE PLOT AT ALL. (No wonder it took me 83 days to read this book!) The prose of the book is more purple than Barney, and I think that speaks for itself. 2: The Pacing This book wasn't exciting at all. I felt in no way excited to read more; in fact, I couldn't have cared less. As I mentioned in the first section, Relin writes detail of every single thing (and I'm not kidding), like it really mattered what color hat his guide exiting the mountain, Mouzafer, was wearing and how many scratches it had and how long he had it and how he recalled his experiences of getting it every time he put it on. Okay, that might have been a minor exaggeration. *snickers* I jumped up, cheered, and giggled maniacally when I was done and realized I didn't have any more hell to go through before the summer was over. 3: The Blatantly Hyperbolized Heroism And by that, I mean how Relin writes Mortenson to be completely pretentious and how he writes this aura of perfection about him that makes him seem like Jesus descended to Earth and decided to build schools for poor and starving Middle-Eastern children. By the time I got to around page 100, I finally found Relin detailing something Mortenson wasn't good at, and I was relieved that he really wasn't the second coming of Jesus like Relin was brainwashed to believe. If you're reading this: Dear David Oliver-Relin, Mr. Gregory Mortenson HAS FLAWS. Please get this through your thick skull, since it's obvious Mortenson didn't write a word of this. Sincerely, a Frustrated Reader. 4: The Length Three Cups of Tea is 125,000 words. For those of you who have no idea how long that really is, it's longer than Twilight. Yes, it is FREAKING LONGER THAN TWILIGHT. I'm sure if the editor of this book had any common sense, it would've been condensed to AT LEAST a maximum of 85,000. So much of this book was just extended detailing and backstories that really had no relevance to what was currently going on. I really didn't care about Marina at all; I didn't care that his throat clogged up and his sexual organ swelled every time he saw her, and that he was talking to his Balti friends about her and about how beautiful she was. Did it have anything to do with the schools being built? I'll give you a hint: the answer rhymes with the word \"HO\" (which happens to bring Marina to mind), and it starts with an N. 5: The Lack of Reference to Balti Language In the entirety of the book, there is a lot of Balti language used, especially in the beginning when he's adjusting to life there. The Balti words are nearly always italicized (i.e.: Inshallah ), but I'd say only 1/4 of all the Balti words are defined in the text, either right next to the word or in the sentences/paragraphs that follow. Google helped me a lot over the course of the book when I actually cared about what they meant because I thought they'd help me later on. I don't even remember what my example word above means. That's how scarce definitions of the Balti language was. 6: The Sentence Length I'm gonna get this out of the way: most of the sentences in this book wouldn't even fit in Goodreads status updates, I shit you not. Goodreads status updates can be up to 420 characters . Whole sentences are commonly over that length in this book. It'd be a HUGE pain in the butt to read aloud. I don't think I've ever read a book in the history of my life that's this stretched out. I mean, seriously. Even the very last paragraph of the book (which is one sentence, people, and it's in #10) is completely stretched out and seems strangely perpetual and confusing and dramatic when it's not. It seems like Relin tried to create a cute ending and failed miserably (look at all those freaking commas!) 7: The Fabrications Three Cups of Deceit: How <---A>Greg Mortenson</---A>, Humanitarian Hero, Lost His Way These should be self-explanatory. In fact, I'm pretty sure I would've enjoyed this book more (maybe a lot more) if I didn't know most of it was false. Knowing this makes reading it seem pointless. Why would my English teacher assign something completely fabricated and horribly written for me to read over the summer when she could've chosen much better alternatives that actually have character and aren't filled with cheesy metaphors? I've heard the previous years' choice was Lord of the Flies , and at this point, I welcome that book in with open arms. 8: The Word \"Mortenson\" The main flaw that arises in writing this book in third-person is how many times the main character's name is referenced. I mean, seriously, you couldn't have called him Greg? Just reading the name \"Mortenson\" after reading this book makes me shudder and feel sick to my stomach. I actually think this book would've been better had it been written by Mortenson; the prose would've been much less purple (maybe a nice, subtle shade of periwinkle) and I'd have been able to escape the dreadful \"Mortenson\" that appeared at the beginning of each paragraph. I put this book on the shelf \"prose-is-purple-as-barney\" for a reason. This just in: the word \"Mortenson\" appears 1,943 times in the text of the novel. That's right. Be warned. 9: The Painful Metaphors Relin needs to obliviate the word \"metaphor\" from his vocabulary, because it doesn't truly enhance his writing, but instead makes it laugh-worthy. I write better metaphorically than him, and I'm 14 years old. Metaphors like a storage space \"smelling like Africa\" and the night being \"bitterly crystalline\" (things which still don't make sense to me) can be eliminated. Being as I, along with many others, have never been to Africa, I don't think that first metaphor should even be usable. Maybe the editor just gave up and decided he/she was done with this atrocity. (I honestly wish I had that option somewhere along the line of reading this.) 10: The Last Paragraph Tell me, have you ever read anything more screwed up grammatically than this? \"Mortenson put his hands on the shoulders of Sadhar Khan's brown robe, as he'd done a decade earlier, among other mountains, with another leader, named Haji Ali, conscious, not of the gunmen still observing him through their sniperscopes, nor of the shahid (a word not defined) stones, warmed to amber by the sun's late rays, but of the inner mountain he'd committed, in that instant, to climb.\" Can someone just shoot me now? THE ONLY POSITIVE ASPECT OF ANYTHING RELATED TO THE STORY: -The end, because I knew it was over and I wouldn't have to turn another page in it again. -Haji Ali. Anyone who says \"Sit down and shut your mouth. You're making everyone crazy\" to <---C>Greg Mortenson</---C> deserves my utmost respect. -The line \"Sheeyit! Bitch ain't got but two dollars.\" (When I first reviewed this book, I gave it 0.5 stars. I've realized since then that NOTHING could ever make this book worth even a half of a star, not a cute story [in certain, very sparse, parts] or a funny line or a clever character. Nothing.) Below, I'm going to include some memorable status updates of mine and some snapshots of margin notes: Status Update 1: \"\"With his ear for languages, Mortenson soon had a basic Balti vocabulary.\" This is what I'm sure Relin meant by this sentence: \"With his astounding ability to do everything he desired, including his outstanding ear for languages, within days, Mortenson was magnificently able to develop a large and complex vocabulary of the Balti people, which he was able to speak flawlessly.\" That's what the rest of it is like...\" Status Update 2: \"'The snout of the Baltoro Glacier lay at the bottom of a canyon, black with debris and sculpted to a point like the nose of a 747.' Really? 'Like the nose of a 747?' I don't think anyone knows what that is. I think 'like a G6' would be more relatable to modern society.\" Status Update 3: \"Wow. If I look past the glaring errors and factual mishaps and exaggerations and over-detailing and overused words and complete and utter bias and misused adjectives and inexplicably long sentences and blatantly hyperbolized heroism and tragic characterization, this isn't bad!\" Status Update 4: \"This book has Irrefutably Biased Syndrome: \"If Mortenson had known how scarce and precious sugar was to the Balti, how rarely they used it themselves, he would have refused the second cup of tea.\" Which, of course, is blatantly insinuating that Mortenson had the manners of a saint and was completely acceptable with leaving the sugar to the Balti. Relin is inferior.\" Status Update 5: \"Okay. In nonfiction, don't quotes have to be exact? There's no freakin' way Mortenson remembers everything everyone said as if it were five minutes ago.\" Status Update 6: \"Finally! Something Mortenson's NOT good at! *forehead wipe*\" Status Update 7: \"Why does he keep going back and forth between America and Pakistan? You'd think the airfare expenses are dwindling away what little he has left of his savings. Not a very smart investment, if you ask me.\" Status Update 8: \"I'm going to start calling you Morty. \"Dear Morty, I didn't pick this book up by choice, but if I did, I wouldn't have picked it up to hear about the prosperity of your love life. But thanks for sharing (NOT). Sincerely, A Disturbed Reader.\" Status Update 9: \"'Mortenson arranged to go back home and see his wife, Tara, whom was expected to deliver their first child within a month. He gets kidnapped by misunderstanding people. Mortenson is rescued by kind men who arrange a party thrown in his occasion and who give him money for his schools to be built.' That was the value of the entire twenty-page chapter. Literally. And you wonder why I hate this book?\" Status Update 10: \"Aw! That was a cute scene. (That's probably all the positive you'll get about this book.)\" Status Update 11: \"\"'I promise,' Mortenson said, adding the burden of another vow to the weighty collection of oaths old men kept making him take.\" That might just be the most clever line I've read thus far.\" Status Update 12: \"Dang! Morty just reached into some chick's uterus.\" Status Update 13: \"Chocolate would help right now. Chocolate always helps.\" MARGIN SNAPSHOTS: Photos Taken of Memorably Cruel Comments ...more While it's hard to give a negative review to a book with its heart in the right place, \"Three Cups of Teas\" is so full of weaknesses it'd be impossible to give it a rating with any more stars. In fact, the book's writing style alone is so poor, I feel generous giving it even two stars. Though the work Greg Mortenson is doing -- building schools in impoverished parts of Pakistan and Afghanistan sorely in need of them -- is certainly laudable, his mission seems ill-served by \"Three Cups.\" The book, While it's hard to give a negative review to a book with its heart in the right place, \"Three Cups of Teas\" is so full of weaknesses it'd be impossible to give it a rating with any more stars. In fact, the book's writing style alone is so poor, I feel generous giving it even two stars. Though the work Greg Mortenson is doing -- building schools in impoverished parts of Pakistan and Afghanistan sorely in need of them -- is certainly laudable, his mission seems ill-served by \"Three Cups.\" The book, billed as being coauthored by Mortenson and David Oliver Relin but obviously written by Relin alone, is so worshipful of Mortenson and the work he has done, the reader almost begins to feel Relin is being defensive. Did someone at one time attack Mortenson's good name? Is this the defense's argument? It seems that on almost every other page Relin rolls out yet another person -- \"Into Thin Air\" author Jon Krakauer, Congresswoman Mary Bono, people Mortenson's worked with -- to talk about how wonderful a person he is, how deserving he is of the Nobel Peace Prize. Beyond that, there's simply not enough material here for a full-length book. Entire sections feel like padding that do nothing more than get the story to book length. (Pages and pages about a failed relationship Mortenson had before he met his wife, for instance, are almost entirely tangential.) The story would have made a good profile in \"The New Yorker\" or \"The New York Times Magazine,\" but there's simply not enough material here to justify a 350-page book. It also doesn't help that there's almost nothing here about how the education Mortenson's schools are giving to boys and girls is actually affecting life in their villages -- or if it is. Granted, it's probably too early to see many results, but is that not also an argument that this story is not quite book-worthy? Maybe Mortenson and Relin needed to wait another 10 years before telling their story. So far, though, I've ignored \"Three Cups\"'s writing. Bad and often inappropriate puns, failed attempts to be poetic, and clunky, overwrought sentences make the book particularly hard to get through. It got to the point that I began writing down particularly egregious sentences. Here are a few from my notes: \"Mortenson sat on a boulder and drank from his water bottle until it was empty. But he couldn't drink in enough of this setting.\" \"As they drove past the scale model of the mountain where Pakistan had detonated its `Muslim Bomb,' Mortenson told his friend and fixer about the explosion of support Americans had provided for the CAI.\" (Get it? Bomb, explosion? Feel free to groan.) \"He leaned over the side of the truck to request a stop and saw the top of the bearish assistant's close-cropped head stretching out the window, and beyond it, straight down fifteen hundred feet to the bottom of the rocky gorge, where a coffee-colored river foamed over boulders.\" (Wow, the assistant's head stretched down fifteen hundred feet to the bottom of the gorge? Tell me more about this guy.) \"When Haji Ali handed him a cup of butter tea, Mortenson drank it with something similar to pleasure.\" (So it wasn't pleasure then? What is this something that's similar to pleasure?) \"The widely spaced streams of tracers leaped across the road like ellipses. But to Mortenson, who wouldn't learn his friends had survived until the following week, when he returned to Kabul, they looked more like question marks.\" (Talk about tortured metaphors. Ouch.) This may seem like nitpicking, but these types of sentences occur throughout the whole book. (I easily filled five pages of a small notepad with only the worst of the worst.) Mortenson's story is worth telling, but I wish he'd found a better way -- and a better writer -- to tell it. ...more I'm about in the middle of Three Cups of Tea by Greg Mortenson and David Oliver Relin and I'm ready to quit. First of all because when I just typed my first sentence here, I realized how sick I am of the words \"Greg Mortenson\". Half way through the book and the author is still immortalizing him by full name. I'm not a big fan of non-fiction but I've read plenty of third person accounts and don't remember this being so irritating in all of them. Greg (smile) built schools in the high mountains in I'm about in the middle of Three Cups of Tea by Greg Mortenson and David Oliver Relin and I'm ready to quit. First of all because when I just typed my first sentence here, I realized how sick I am of the words \"Greg Mortenson\". Half way through the book and the author is still immortalizing him by full name. I'm not a big fan of non-fiction but I've read plenty of third person accounts and don't remember this being so irritating in all of them. Greg (smile) built schools in the high mountains in Pakistan. Huge endeavor. Wonderful thing to do. He innocently jumped in and pretty much wore himself out before he got to be a corporation with a steady income. My favorite part was him renting a typewriter to send out begging letters -- took him all day to type half a dozen letters. Then someone took pity on him and introduced him to the world of computers. He was thrilled with the 'cut and paste' keys. I get a thrill just thinking about one or two people getting involved and making changes that count. ....However, I found the writing sophmoric and I hate that. The book is two damn long, the discriptions are clumsy & too damn long and the characterization is almost non-existent. A lot of people really enjoyed this book, so I'm not saying don't bother. It is inspiring and I truly respect the man & what he did. It's a shame it wasn't written well. For me, this book would have been a perfect National Geograpic article -- more pictures; far less words. ...more Three Cups of Tea is one of the worst books I've ever been forced to read. From the first page of this memoir, the ghostwriter's sickening tone of hero worship has Greg Mortenson healing the sick, making the lame walk, and performing superhumanly selfless acts on a daily basis since his earliest childhood. Luckily, the author stops short of having Mortenson deliver his wife's baby and walking on water. What was probably intended to be an uplifting tale about how even the smallest among us can ch Three Cups of Tea is one of the worst books I've ever been forced to read. From the first page of this memoir, the ghostwriter's sickening tone of hero worship has Greg Mortenson healing the sick, making the lame walk, and performing superhumanly selfless acts on a daily basis since his earliest childhood. Luckily, the author stops short of having Mortenson deliver his wife's baby and walking on water. What was probably intended to be an uplifting tale about how even the smallest among us can change the world (think Frodo in the Lord of the Rings ) reads as a nauseating self\u2013congratulatory chronicle that celebrates the type of do-gooding popularized by Angelina Jolie. If you want to read about someone doing truly inspirational humanitarian work with the dirt poor in Asia, then research Sabriye Tenberken and the organization Braille Without Borders that she founded. She has also penned her own memoir My Path Leads to Tibet . ...more It's an absolutely amazing book until you start researching the trial against Greg Mortensen and find out how much of this is ALL A LIE. (Ok, the whole thing read like a massive ego boost in the first place, but still... the idea was hopeful). Montana's prosecuting attorney came to teach my honors Advanced Nonprofit Administration class during Mortenson's trial. She wasn't allowed to give us information, but still kept saying \" hypothetically if one were to...\" and we got the gist of everything. It It's an absolutely amazing book until you start researching the trial against Greg Mortensen and find out how much of this is ALL A LIE. (Ok, the whole thing read like a massive ego boost in the first place, but still... the idea was hopeful). Montana's prosecuting attorney came to teach my honors Advanced Nonprofit Administration class during Mortenson's trial. She wasn't allowed to give us information, but still kept saying \" hypothetically if one were to...\" and we got the gist of everything. It is absolutely ridiculous and disheartening how much Mortensen got away with. He was a hero of mine who inspired me to get into international development policy and I can't even begin to explain how illegal and dishonest his actions were. It's like he didn't think anyone would ever look into events on the other side of the world, so he just spun the craziest story that would sell? Using people's donations to your nonprofit to buy your own book to keep it on bestseller lists (instead of building schools with that $$) and then pocketing the profits is sketchy all around. And how does having dead people on the board of your nonprofit seem remotely legit?!? I'd recommend Jon Krakauer's \"Three Cups of Deceit\" if you want to know more about this scandal. And Craig Kielburger's Free the Children nonprofit actually does similar work. ...more Three Cups of Tea contains a hint of a beautiful story. There were parts that made me tear up. Some of the parts that made me tear up were touching; other parts that made me tear up were painfully written. Greg Mortenson is really an American hero. His work in Pakistan and Afghanistan is truly amazing. David Oliver Relin is an American journalist. His work, at least on this book, is not so heroic. The following are some of my favorite, terrible sentences from the book: \u201cAnd by the time the rising Three Cups of Tea contains a hint of a beautiful story. There were parts that made me tear up. Some of the parts that made me tear up were touching; other parts that made me tear up were painfully written. Greg Mortenson is really an American hero. His work in Pakistan and Afghanistan is truly amazing. David Oliver Relin is an American journalist. His work, at least on this book, is not so heroic. The following are some of my favorite, terrible sentences from the book: \u201cAnd by the time the rising sun iced the hanging glaciers of Masherbrum pale pink, like a gargantuan pastry dangling above them at breakfast time, Mortenson had agreed to shift the funds his board had approved for the doomed Khane school upside to this village whose headman had traveled so far downriver to educate himself.\u201d (p. 206) \u201cAnd rippling out from Mortenson\u2019s headquarters in Skardu, over the parched dunes, through the twisting gorges, and up the weather bound valley of Baltistan, the legend of a giant infidel called Dr. Greg was likewise growing.\u201d (p. 210) \u201cIn the fall of 2003, at the desk of his aviation company in Rawalpindi, as he tried to arrange a flight for Mortenson to Afghanistan, now that the CAI\u2019s work in Pakistan was on firm enough footing for him to leave, Bhangoo\u2019s boss, the bull-like Brigadier General Bashir Baz, ruminated on the importance of educating all of Pakistan\u2019s children, and the progress America was making in the war on terror.\u201d (p. 310) As the above sentences might indicate, the writing in this book was painful, to say to the least. Some of the folks on Amazon suggested skimming through most of the book. I don\u2019t know if that is necessary, but it might save you a few tears. ...more Another book disappeared from my shelves. I also read Three Cups of Deceit: How Greg Mortenson, Humanitarian Hero, Lost His Way , Krakauer's excellent expose of the ego and lies of Mortenson because I had read it. The book was totally self-serving. Mother Teresa couldn't have written better. Ok I'm not a fan of Mother Teresa, I'm don't quite swallow whole Hitchen's The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice , but close. And so it is with Mortenson. He turned personal charity and Another book disappeared from my shelves. I also read Three Cups of Deceit: How Greg Mortenson, Humanitarian Hero, Lost His Way , Krakauer's excellent expose of the ego and lies of Mortenson because I had read it. The book was totally self-serving. Mother Teresa couldn't have written better. Ok I'm not a fan of Mother Teresa, I'm don't quite swallow whole Hitchen's The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice , but close. And so it is with Mortenson. He turned personal charity and what should have been morality into a business and more, opportunity for fame, self-aggrandisement and general hero/saint status. Krakauer, like Hitchens, is an iconoclast by nature and sometimes by profession. We despise the gutter press, those tabloids that seem to exist to knock people down, but they have a place. One better occupied by intelligent writing that relies less upon our gut reaction and more about our understanding of facts and process. But still the gutter press (Dailymail.co.uk chief among them now the News of the World dug it's own grave and fell backwards into it) do their research and present the same conclusions. Is it schadenfreude that makes me like books like this? Am I really so immature as to like to see people's feet of clay crumbling beneath them? Or is it a burning desire for justice? Perhaps a mixture of both. ________________________________ I have about 3K books on my shelves. The ones that have disappeared represent less than 0.5% that I know about. How many more though? And how many people does this \"bug\" affect. Librarians? Amazon imports? Who knows? GR doesn't seem to do anything about it but maybe they can't track the 'bug' down because it is done by people rather than computer programs. ...more I approached this book with some reservation. If nothing else several years of study in Development Studies has made me very wary of \"do-gooders\". As others have noted, there is a strong element of imperialism in the idea of of an American's mission to \"fight terrorism and build nations\" and I was quite ready to be critical about it. However I am happy to admit I really enjoyed and was inspired by the book. As Relin writes- \"Supposedly objective reporters are at risk of being drawn into his orbit I approached this book with some reservation. If nothing else several years of study in Development Studies has made me very wary of \"do-gooders\". As others have noted, there is a strong element of imperialism in the idea of of an American's mission to \"fight terrorism and build nations\" and I was quite ready to be critical about it. However I am happy to admit I really enjoyed and was inspired by the book. As Relin writes- \"Supposedly objective reporters are at risk of being drawn into his orbit... The more time I spent watching Mortenson work, the more convinced I became that I was in the presence of something extraordinary.\" Mortenson appears to have a genuine humanitarian motivation and a deep affection for the people he works with. I was surprised as I read the book to note that many of the paper lessons I learned about \"doing development\" were the lessons Mortenson learned through his work and his mistakes. \"Participation\" is one of the biggest buzzwords in development today and this is what Mortenson learned, and one hopes, how CAI continues to practise. This is what the three cups of tea is all about. I do however a have a few niggles with the book. While acknowledging it was never written as a academic text I found the overwhelming positivity somewhat unrealistic. Whereever \"outsiders\" come in to do development or aid work, there are both positive and negative consequences, one just hopes the positive outweigh the negative. I believe in this case it does, but a more rounded discussion of the work would have been good. And there is, possibly unavoidably, a touch of imperialism. Mortenson is American. He started out as a penniless individual who wanted to help but he now leads a growing organisation with a significant budget. I hope he continues to maintain the relationships that take this organisation above being just another development project. Overall, I highly recommend this book, taken with just the tinest little grain of salt to aid digestion. ...more JUST AN OPINION - NO BLURB - NO REVIEW When starting out this book I was unaware of the controversy fueled by a hungry press to bring down a humanitarian philanthropist in their usual dog-eats-dog modus operandi . I simply read a book by an adventurer who wanted to honor the memory of his sister in climbing K2 - the second highest mountain in the world. He not only honored his sister, but in the end honored thousands of helpless little girls in Afghanistan and Pakistan by building schools in remot JUST AN OPINION - NO BLURB - NO REVIEW When starting out this book I was unaware of the controversy fueled by a hungry press to bring down a humanitarian philanthropist in their usual dog-eats-dog modus operandi . I simply read a book by an adventurer who wanted to honor the memory of his sister in climbing K2 - the second highest mountain in the world. He not only honored his sister, but in the end honored thousands of helpless little girls in Afghanistan and Pakistan by building schools in remote places and changing their lives forever. I worked with people such as Mr. Mortenson. I worked for many years in many similar remote communities in Africa (He worked in Pakistan and Afganistan). I could totally relate to the experiences and stories he shared. I fully understand the problems he experienced, the expectations, the impossible viability of many of these dreams by poor, remote communities. I have seen the work these organizations have done in very difficult situations. I observed the press building up a person, preparing for the biggest destruction-heist(their actual aim) to sell newspapers and airtime. I might be crucified for being this outspoken, but I am used to the consequences. The fact remains, Mr. Mortenson DID help thousands of girls getting educated, and he DID build schools where there were no schools or hope of education before. He DID accomplish with books what bombs could not achieve. He taught the world a lesson in peacemaking that should never be forgotten. It doesn't matter if he built three or a three hundred schools. It doesn't matter if he spent lots of money promoting his non-profit organization. He simply did not know the potholes in the road of fame. He did not seek fame, he was made famous by a hungry scandal-seeking media, and they made sure they found it. His co-author was a journalist. A million words was reduced to three hundred thousand by a journalist. The fact that his co-author was a journalist, explains why the facts were converted to sensationalism to sell the book. Does it really matter that he did not get lost and found a small village of people whom he promised a school? Does it matter that he visited the village a second time and made the promise then? Does it matter that he was not kidnapped? Perhaps yes. A major faux pas . It was the two elements in his story that provided a foothold for the media to dig his grave. The fact remains, he still built relationships in these countries defying the general impression of Americans as evil people. He proved the critics of America wrong. His enemies hated him for the good work he was/is doing, and they made sure they take a good man down. He is not a villain, he is still a hero. Greg Mortenson is an average person who grew up in Africa as the son of Lutheran missionaries; was a misfit in America(Minnesota) due to calling himself a white African; have a heart bigger than the world and politics; left everything behind to make a difference in this world. And what a huge difference it is! Apart from helping thousands of girls, he also changed the image of America in Pakistan and Afghanistan. He changed the image of these two countries in America, by writing his books and doing the talk/lecture-rounds. That is major accomplishments! The problem now is, that the people who understand dare not speak out. The hungry mobs are bulldozing their own sensational truths through the universe, prohibiting the real truth to expose them. I admire him as a person and for the work he has done. THERE, BY THE GRACE OF GOD, GOES A MAN! May he rise above his mistakes and his critics. May he continue with the work he is doing. The world needs people like Greg Mortenson. They are one in a billion. I have nothing to lose by calling a spade a spade. This man needs objective people with an objective observation on the situation. I can only hope that my opinion can mean something. He needs real friends now. ...more Having lived and worked in Pakistan for many years, and travelled to many of the places described, I enjoyed this book as a 'fun read.' I think it is very helpful for people who only have access to information about the country through mainstream media to see a side of the people, especially poor people in rural areas who are not very educated who many in the west assume to be fundamentalists, that more accurately reflects their culture: their hospitality, their concern for the future of their c Having lived and worked in Pakistan for many years, and travelled to many of the places described, I enjoyed this book as a 'fun read.' I think it is very helpful for people who only have access to information about the country through mainstream media to see a side of the people, especially poor people in rural areas who are not very educated who many in the west assume to be fundamentalists, that more accurately reflects their culture: their hospitality, their concern for the future of their children - including their daughters - and that their society, like ours, is not homogeneous. For many this book will be eye opening about the very real and human side of a country most equate with training grounds for Al-Qaeda. However, I felt the book had two flaws: (i) the co-author is a tad bit too enamoured with his subject which leads to considerable hyperbole; and (ii) this one man's story needs to be put in a much larger context of all the people working in Pakistan to try to educate children. This includes large numbers of committed and hard-working Pakistanis, local and international NGOs, and other individuals. I've known people, including women, who have slept in trucks outside village walls deep in rural Balochistan or Frontier Province for days and weeks to meet with the villagers about starting girls' schools, and worked on one village at a time much like Mortenson. Networks of many community schools have been started this way. This is not to detract from his success. If more people could establish just a few schools with good teachers and enough learning materials, links to higher levels of learning (like the children who went on to school in Skardu and Gilgit and later returned to contribute to their village), the country might just be transformed. One village at a time. ...more I had the honor of presenting the author, David Oliver Relin , at our library book group. Greg Mortenson failed to climb K2, and while he headed back down the mountain, he took a wrong turn, missed his bridge, and found himself in Korphe, a village not found on his maps. (Ridges in the glacier are as big as highways.) The people there welcomed him and brought him back to health. He happened to ask them to take him to their school. There was none. The children met under the cold sky and used stick I had the honor of presenting the author, David Oliver Relin , at our library book group. Greg Mortenson failed to climb K2, and while he headed back down the mountain, he took a wrong turn, missed his bridge, and found himself in Korphe, a village not found on his maps. (Ridges in the glacier are as big as highways.) The people there welcomed him and brought him back to health. He happened to ask them to take him to their school. There was none. The children met under the cold sky and used sticks to write in the dirt. From that point he made it his mission to bring schools to those remote mountain villages in Afghanistan. Before they wanted a school, the villagers wanted a bridge so they could build the school. That bridge not only helped bring the school, it changed the lives of the women in the small village. David Relin told us when a woman leaves her family to live with her husband, she may never see them in her life again. One ridge in these mountains might as well be a hundred miles. This little bridge allowed them to visit their families on a weekly basis. Excerpts, an interview, and audio with Mortenson can be found on Beliefnet here . David said CAI will never be like Mercy Corps. It is an example of the kinds of organizations we need. Still, compared to Saudi oil money (that funds the Taliban madrassas), it is a drop in the bucket. David had talked to all kinds of groups in the previous several months. No matter the group, everybody is fed up with the war in Iraq and the \"war on terror.\" He said, \"The enemy is not Osama, Sadaam, the enemy is ignorance. We're going after the wrong enemy.\" He said we need to turn our attention to the root causes of terrorism, poverty and the need for education. One of the things we could do to counter our own ignorance is to \"try to remain sensitive to the phrase over there .\" So much of what passes for news encompasses anything in the Middle East as \"over there.\" Any bad thing is \"over there.\" An important piece about Afghani politics: the Taliban are thugs and gangsters who want payback. They don't really care whether girls are learning. This surfaced in the book about one of the fatwas put on Greg's head: the local gangster just wanted some kickback. While David keeps himself out of the book, in the beginning, he does chronicle his first hairy helicopter ride piloted by Brigadier General Bhangoo, who had been Pakistan President Musharraf's personal pilot. He told us that sadly, General Bhangoo had died in a plane crash several months before this October talk. The man was flying an ultralight around K2, intending to fly it around the world. Other tidbits: David's main translator was Ghulam Parvi, a \"personal repository of Balti culture.\" Freaky moment: ibex head in the helicoptor. If I remember right, it was someone's illicit dinner. Ibex are protected, but, um, General Bhangoo had his connections. The teachers in the schools are graduates of the schools. They have an equivalent of a 5th or 6th grade education, but that is what the villages need. They then get teacher training workshops during the summers. The 2005 earthquake zones \"are still a nightmare.\" CAI dropped tents at the sites of the schools that crumbled. If someone wishes to sponsor one school, David told us, CAI asks for $50,000. That's $25,000 to build it, and $25,000 to keep it running and in supplies for a decade. I thought this summed up the wise simplicity of the people that Mortenson grew to love: No human, nor any living thing, survives long under the eternal sky. The most beautiful women, the most learned men, even Mohammed, who heard Allah's own voice, all did wither and die. All is temporary. The sky outlives everything. Even suffering. ~Bowa Johar, Balti poet, and grandfather of Mauzafer Ali. ...more Reading this I was left inspired by Greg Mortenson's determination and endurance. As a mountaineer, he was trained at focused effort, but I would submit that building schools for girls in conservative Muslim Pakistan and Afghanistan was a higher summit than he ever attempted. The later chapters are especially compelling as he was one of the rare voices of peace after 9/11 and he caught some friction for his work from a very hawkish American public. This is written in a workmanlike, journalistic Reading this I was left inspired by Greg Mortenson's determination and endurance. As a mountaineer, he was trained at focused effort, but I would submit that building schools for girls in conservative Muslim Pakistan and Afghanistan was a higher summit than he ever attempted. The later chapters are especially compelling as he was one of the rare voices of peace after 9/11 and he caught some friction for his work from a very hawkish American public. This is written in a workmanlike, journalistic style; not great literature, but a great story. Reminds me again what a difference one man can make - like Muhammed Yunnis and Bill Couch at Right Roads and hundreds more people working hard to do some good every day. ...more Some books I really enjoy reviewing. They\u2019re either important, enjoyable, well-written, or some combination thereof. There are a few others I read (or start to read) that simply aren\u2019t worth the effort of discussing at all. In a third group are books that bother me by triggering one of my pet peeves: Some may be well-written fiction, with great characters, but the author\u2019s clear purpose is to push some kind of agenda. Others exploit children (especially disabled children) as a means of manipulat Some books I really enjoy reviewing. They\u2019re either important, enjoyable, well-written, or some combination thereof. There are a few others I read (or start to read) that simply aren\u2019t worth the effort of discussing at all. In a third group are books that bother me by triggering one of my pet peeves: Some may be well-written fiction, with great characters, but the author\u2019s clear purpose is to push some kind of agenda. Others exploit children (especially disabled children) as a means of manipulating cheap emotions. Then there are books that needn\u2019t be well-written at all but have been given some mysterious boost by the publishing world and soar to far greater acclaim than is justified by their own merits. Three Cups of Tea is in the latter bunch. It was given to me as a gift last Christmas, and because of the subject I was eager to get into it, despite the fact that Greg Mortenson had relied on a \u201creal\u201d writer to interview him and pull his story together (generally not a good sign, the quality of prose being inversely proportional to the number of co-authors). I was starting to bog down with the mediocre writing that several other reviewers have noticed, but then it was announced that the author was actually coming to speak in an auditorium at my place of employment. Re-motivated, I tried again to make headway in the book, and got as far as the point where our doughty hero returns to Pakistan with funds to start building a school. On the big night, I headed over to the auditorium about half an hour early, only to discover the place had been filled to capacity for a long time. The street outside was still jammed with cars, circling in search of parking spots that weren\u2019t there, and the security guard was warning people that they\u2019d never get in. Turns out, the local NPR affiliate had announced the event, and somehow this particular writer generated enthusiasm like I\u2019ve never seen before. (And I\u2019ve been to hear quite a few prominent literary figures speak or read.) Why the big deal? It couldn\u2019t be the quality of the writing, which is just passable at best. (I like a reviewer\u2019s comment that \u201cif you actually can finish this blather, it will be as if you climbed a mountain. A long, boring mountain.\u201d) The clue to the excitement, I guess, is on the jacket copy and in the subtitle. This may well not have been Greg Mortenson\u2019s original thought at all. As far as I know, he was motivated only by a laudable desire to do good. (That by the way is another problem with the book: His motivations are never really explored. He\u2019s treated as some kind of icon.) Apparently he did indeed do something remarkable, and that should be commended. But the packaging of his book suggests to me that the opinion shapers are really saying that if we only built more schools in impoverished countries as he did, and generally gave more in foreign aid, lunatics from that part of the world wouldn\u2019t hijack airplanes and fly them into our buildings. Again, I\u2019m inclined to believe Mortenson wasn\u2019t thinking this way at the time, but I see he now has a blog post entitled \u201cIt Takes a School, Not Missiles.\u201d So apparently he\u2019s going along with the theme that is working so well. When I was unable to get into the auditorium that night, my copy of the book went back onto my table. Several months have passed, and I\u2019ve felt no desire to pick it up again. In fact, I just got rid of it. But unfortunately, the important thing about it is that it isn\u2019t really a book at all, now. It became a sort of political phenomenon around a book. And that\u2019s something altogether different. With all the copies out there, I wonder how many people actually read more of it than I did. UPDATED to add this bit of news because, of all the book reviews I've posted, only this one has inspired people to flame me with comments. As the comments are borderline ad hominem attacks, as opposed to any kind of argument about the book's merits, as a book, I always promptly delete them. Everyone is entitled to beliefs, political and otherwise. When I write here, it's primarily about literary merit. I found little of that, and now, apparently, there's another reason to question the value of this thing. ...more I wish goodreads had a 10-star rating for this book. Anyone who has ever wanted to make a difference, anyone who has ever dreamed the impossible dream of a diverse world living together in peaceful coexistence, anyone who has ever feared their own small voice was too small a drop in the bucket to matter -- MUST read this book, and then share it and its message with everyone you know. (NOTE: buy through the link at http://www.threecupsoftea.com/Intro.php , and you will be sending 7% of the cost ba I wish goodreads had a 10-star rating for this book. Anyone who has ever wanted to make a difference, anyone who has ever dreamed the impossible dream of a diverse world living together in peaceful coexistence, anyone who has ever feared their own small voice was too small a drop in the bucket to matter -- MUST read this book, and then share it and its message with everyone you know. (NOTE: buy through the link at http://www.threecupsoftea.com/Intro.php , and you will be sending 7% of the cost back to this amazing charity.) The book is fascinating, inspirational and informative on so many levels -- exciting action story, moving human drama, exotic travelogue, social action miracle, bird's eye view of contemporary history in the making in the world's most complex and volatile region, a revelation of the tenaciousness and power of the human spirit under the most destructive conditions. For the first time, I have a basic understanding of the roots of conflicts in central Asia, and how the very land and landscape (and their role in outside powers' self-serving political decisions) have helped to shape today's Pakistan and Afghanistan (enough of a reason right there to read this book). But the real MIRACLE of this book is that this is all done through the mind-boggling true story of one man's miraculous mission, and seen at ground level through the eyes and souls of those who call these lands home, in such a way that these foreign places and people feel as intimate as sisters and brothers -- which, in fact, as this story makes clear, they are. The book follows GREG MORTENSON (who has my vote, along with many others', for the next Nobel Peace Prize) from his unexpected life-saving encounter with the hospitality and generosity of a remote village in Baltistan (northern Pakistan) through his fulfillment of a grateful promise to come back and build a school for this tiny, poor community -- and on through the unfolding of an incredible mission (so incredible you can hardly believe it's nonfiction) to bring nonsectarian education and basic humanitarian aid to tiny villages throughout remote, war-torn and povertry-stricken areas throughout northern Pakistan and, eventually, Afghanistan. If for no other reason, please, PLEASE, read this book for its empowering message of the earth-shaping, history-altering power that begins with a SINGLE PERSON (you, me!) -- but can leverage the hearts and hands of millions to move mountains toward a common good. I have read dozens of eloquent pleas for and dreams of world peace -- but NEVER have I read so shockingly concrete a story of planting its actual seeds -- never have I been so moved to feel global peace can actually be more than mere dream. ...more Greg Mortisen this, Greg Mortisen that, Dr. Greg this, Dr. Greg that blah, blah, blah. This book was such a glowing endorsment for the person Greg Mortisen that I had a hard time taking in the story of what he did, because quite frankly I was getting sick of him. Which isn't necessarly fair because he wasn't telling the story so I'm not saying he's narsacistic or anything but the person telling it could have toned it down a notch or two and let us come to our conclusion, and no doubt we would ha Greg Mortisen this, Greg Mortisen that, Dr. Greg this, Dr. Greg that blah, blah, blah. This book was such a glowing endorsment for the person Greg Mortisen that I had a hard time taking in the story of what he did, because quite frankly I was getting sick of him. Which isn't necessarly fair because he wasn't telling the story so I'm not saying he's narsacistic or anything but the person telling it could have toned it down a notch or two and let us come to our conclusion, and no doubt we would have, that Greg Mortisen is a super great guy for what he did. About 2/3 of the way through I thought \"oh my gosh, this sounds more like a plea for Greg Mortisen to get the nobel peace prize\" than an actual book and sure enough a few chapters later they were talking about how deserving of the nobel peace prize he is. and i might agree but by the time the book was over i was feeling like, \"hey, some of us get lost in Pakistan while cllimbing mountains and then return to build schools for impoverished girls that would otherwise have no future and some of us totaly always give their spare change to whatever cancer drive their doing at the grocery store. we all do something\". I think i would have been more inclined to enjoy Morisen's story in a magazine article than in this extended 368 page tribute to him. ...more Much of Greg's work is valid still, but when I hear a lot of it is fiction and that he has been raiding the charity, I want to send him permanently to Afghanistan to run one of the schools. Here's my original review which I gave five stars: This book affected the way I think about other cultures and the relationship the United States has with them. The writing was fun and well done, sometimes a bit too many adjectives and flowery descriptions were thrown in to make sure we didn't bored, and plent Much of Greg's work is valid still, but when I hear a lot of it is fiction and that he has been raiding the charity, I want to send him permanently to Afghanistan to run one of the schools. Here's my original review which I gave five stars: This book affected the way I think about other cultures and the relationship the United States has with them. The writing was fun and well done, sometimes a bit too many adjectives and flowery descriptions were thrown in to make sure we didn't bored, and plenty of time was taken to point out that Greg is a bit of a loner, a bit odd, not really much of a businessman, and sometimes inefficient. Here are the things I found very helpful, eye opening and excellent: 1. The US has exercised its military might to fight off terrorism and extremism that is directed toward the US, Great Britain and Israel. But what we learn very quickly from Greg's book is that the military solution will only take us so far and that we need to follow up with solutions to help and educate the people in these backward societies. And it's not just throwing money at the problem. Greg has done what it takes to get things done properly by lovingly getting to know the people one on one and then through years of work and thrift and effort has built up the relationships, built schools, bridges, helped provide clean water sources, etc. The people know Greg, trust him, love him and give Americans a good name. 2. I think it has been very wise of Greg to keep \"Christian\" teachings and religion out of the formula. In fact, much of what he has tried to do would not have happened if he were trying to push Christian ideals in the schools. The schools teach the very basics, from math and writing, to good hygiene and science. 3. Not only do the people love Greg, but Greg loves the people. Perhaps this is the most time consuming and difficult lesson to be translated to the normal American, that these people are good, hard working, lovable people. Obviously, some of the leaders and businessmen are cutthroat and greedy. Our prisons in the US are full of such people. But the core values of the Muslims are good and the people, once they trust and know someone, are loyal and full of integrity. It's worth the effort to get out there and help them, which gets me to the next idea in the book 4. If we don't get out there one on one and help with our money building schools for appropriate education, water systems, sewer systems, etc., there will be money flowing in from anti american organizations to do the same thing but with an emphasis on educating the people to hate the West and new terrorists will emerge and we'll be in the same rut we're in. 5. I loved Greg's hugely efficient and thrifty ways. The first nice school was built for $12,000. How many American's could afford to build one school? Thousands of people. The one on one effort with the people to get these projects done for an affordable price with their participation is unbelievably more efficient and effective than what we've tried to do in Iraq. And because the people are so involved, the school is a thing of pride for them and their children love going and the education immediately begins to change there lives in amazing ways. ...more I borrowed this book, having heard the story of it, and knowing that other people I knew were/had been reading this book. And I'm returning it so it may be passed along. The premise is great, an inspiring story, whether real or not, and one I'd love to continue to know about. My main problem with the book is the storytelling, how it abruptly snaps back and forth in place and time so that I am not always sure where the scene is taking place or when until fully into the scene. And some scenes are l I borrowed this book, having heard the story of it, and knowing that other people I knew were/had been reading this book. And I'm returning it so it may be passed along. The premise is great, an inspiring story, whether real or not, and one I'd love to continue to know about. My main problem with the book is the storytelling, how it abruptly snaps back and forth in place and time so that I am not always sure where the scene is taking place or when until fully into the scene. And some scenes are left completely hanging at the end of a chapter only to be dealt with later, almost as an after thought. It would have been far better to read and understand if presented in a more linear fashion, although David Oliver Relin did address the time/place conintuum problem in the intro. There are a lot of missing dates, such that by the end of the book, I was still unsure as to how long it took for the first school to get built. But you keep reading ( or I did, at least) because the story is full of hope and frustration, and you really want the best of everybody, even the conivvers. But Relin's verbose prose keeps tripping you up: ...burned fuselages lay like the decomposing carcasses of whales along the cratered runway... Besides, how many times can he emphasize just how magnificent the view of K2 is? Or how treacherous a journey every journey was? Puleeze. In the end, one hopes for the best of all involved and is encourages that the work will continue. I'd rather knwo this story though from watching a TV movie or reading some expanded Sunday story in the New York Times Magazine rather than this book. Also, the other thing that bugged me in this book is how the author describes the \"people\" of Pakistan, which I do take some offense at, just lumping them into a sort of stereotypical group like that. Talking about their gentle, simple ways, etc. Even though, admittedly, he does go on to illustrate the extreme kindness of the Pakistanis involved, I still bristle at any sort of generalisations from outsiders. And the OTHER thing that also began to wear by the end of the book was how EVERY woman was beautiful, or at least, as Greg Mortenson saw them--village women, his future wife, Senator Mary Bono. Not beautiful in that spiritual way, but physically, a little too much so. ...more My 'book sharing' buddy loaned this book to me and it just sat on my shelf. She said it was an amazing true story which lead her to staying up way past bed times reading. It was only when she asked for the loaner book back that I cracked it open. Next I knew, I was hooked too. It was a long week at work, but worth it. Anyhow, definitely read this book! It is an amazing story of Greg Mortenson's work in Pakistan building school. \"Yeah, Yeah. Rich America throwing their weight and money around. I' My 'book sharing' buddy loaned this book to me and it just sat on my shelf. She said it was an amazing true story which lead her to staying up way past bed times reading. It was only when she asked for the loaner book back that I cracked it open. Next I knew, I was hooked too. It was a long week at work, but worth it. Anyhow, definitely read this book! It is an amazing story of Greg Mortenson's work in Pakistan building school. \"Yeah, Yeah. Rich America throwing their weight and money around. I've heard that before.\" you think. NOPE. Not how it unfolds. His intentions are solid gold and his pockets are all but empty when he starts... he barely makes enough to afford a decent life in the US. I LOVED: - The lessons he learns from the elders he met along the way. It was a great sociology lesson about cultures. - That he figured out the 'game' of getting it done under the political climates of Pakistan and the US. - That just his actions were so impressive to the locals that he became somewhat famous... thought he didn't act that way. - That each who join his 'team' has something to contribute. But they all share the dream of making the kids lives better with education. ...more This book is excellent. Sometimes books such as these, howbeit inspiring, are often tedious to read. This one was not. I was fascinated. After a failed attempt to climb K2, Greg Mortensen is separated from his guide and wanders into a small Pakistani village he otherwise would have never known existed. The friendships he made altered the course of his life. He promised to build them a school after seeing the teacherless village children writing school assignments in the dirt with sticks. After t This book is excellent. Sometimes books such as these, howbeit inspiring, are often tedious to read. This one was not. I was fascinated. After a failed attempt to climb K2, Greg Mortensen is separated from his guide and wanders into a small Pakistani village he otherwise would have never known existed. The friendships he made altered the course of his life. He promised to build them a school after seeing the teacherless village children writing school assignments in the dirt with sticks. After the first school, his work took on a life of it's own as he gained the trust of the people in other villages bringing as many schools as he possibly could to some of the poorest places in the country. This man probably knows more about the hearts and minds of the people in Pakistan and Afganistan than any expert in Washington. This is not a political book; however, I was left thinking we've missed the mark in how we can protect our country from terrorism. Greg seems to have the keys--respect, hard work, love, keeping our promises and education. I would like to be as passionate and brave as this man; or, at the very least, as loving and supportive as his wife. ...more Heartbreaking, uplifting, suspenseful, at times very funny. If everyone on earth did 1/10 of what Greg Mortenson does for others, we\u2019d have a much better world. If a hefty portion of the world\u2019s population put in 10% of the work and effort and cash that Mortenson has done, for people in need all over the world, we might not have a perfect world, but it would be vastly improved. At first I thought Mortenson must have some incredible amount of charisma, but really he just had the urge to help and w Heartbreaking, uplifting, suspenseful, at times very funny. If everyone on earth did 1/10 of what Greg Mortenson does for others, we\u2019d have a much better world. If a hefty portion of the world\u2019s population put in 10% of the work and effort and cash that Mortenson has done, for people in need all over the world, we might not have a perfect world, but it would be vastly improved. At first I thought Mortenson must have some incredible amount of charisma, but really he just had the urge to help and willingness to learn, and simply showed genuine respect and care for those people he worked with and for. The only magic was his tirelessness and his level of passion for his work. That\u2019s why I say 10%: because virtually nobody else would be able to dedicate themselves to their mission the way \u201cDr. Greg\u201d has done. I\u2019ve read a lot of fiction books where the events take place in Afghanistan. When I was eight, my family was friends for a summer with a family from Pakistan. Yet, I feel as though I learned more about these two countries from this book than I have previously learned from all other sources. This is a very inspiring real life story. I challenge any reader to not care about and root for both the children and adults of this region, and for me that translated to everybody everywhere who face challenges of poverty, illiteracy, or other such problems. At the very beginning I found the writing very jarring because Mortenson, the \u201cfirst\u201d author, is referred to in the third person. Very quickly, I realized that the \u201csecond\u201d author, David Oliver Relin , is the actual author, and once I decided that, I was able to thoroughly enjoy the book. I don\u2019t know if the writing improved as the book progressed; it seemed to do so to me, or whether I just became so engrossed in the story that the writing style didn\u2019t matter anymore. The map that appears before the Table of Contents really helped me, and I always appreciate maps in books. I really enjoyed the photographs in the center of the book; I wish that there were many more of them. Mortenson, after failing to climb K2, dedicated his life to building schools, for educating both girls and boys, first in Pakstan (the first one in a village where the people helped him as he came off the mountain) and then eventually in Afghanistan too. How Mortenson has lived his life is laudable, although I do hope his own family is thriving. Yes, ignorance is the enemy. I wish the Obama administration, the U.S. Congress, and all world leaders could see that. Anne Fadiman has an essay in her book Ex Libris Confessions of a Common Reader about the \u201codd shelf.\u201d Her odd shelf is polar exploration. Mine is polar exploration and mountain climbing. So, at the beginning of this book, when the failed K2 attempt is described, I was riveted from the start Also, I knew the San Francisco Bay Area locations, which was fun, and I was interested in the Pakistani and Afghani mountainous areas; I even learned a bit about Montana and other places. I\u2019d put this book on my to read list when it was first published but then I decided I wasn\u2019t so interested. I\u2019m very grateful to my real world book club; it\u2019s our January selection, and I doubt that I\u2019d have read it if not for that, and I\u2019m very grateful that I did. A sequel has just been published: Stones into Schools Promoting Peace with Books, Not Bombs, in Afghanistan and Pakistan . I hope this book earns the Central Asia Institute ( www.ikat.org ) a huge amount of money. There is a web site for this book for further information: www.threecupsoftea.com and I\u2019ve glanced at it and intend to look at its content more thoroughly. ...more Feel-good, mandatory read for anyone interested in children, the future and in current events. My check to CAI will be in the mail soon- It makes you want to get involved. The story of one incredible man's love for mountain climbing, that leads to the adventure of a lifetime. Working to build schools for villages in the remote corners of Pakistan and Afghanistan, Greg Mortenson shines as an example that even one person can make huge difference to world. He may be a future Nobel Peace Prize winner Feel-good, mandatory read for anyone interested in children, the future and in current events. My check to CAI will be in the mail soon- It makes you want to get involved. The story of one incredible man's love for mountain climbing, that leads to the adventure of a lifetime. Working to build schools for villages in the remote corners of Pakistan and Afghanistan, Greg Mortenson shines as an example that even one person can make huge difference to world. He may be a future Nobel Peace Prize winner and he is undoubtedly a real-live hero. After reading, I understand more about the nature of middle East interests and of the importance of education for those who desire to learn. For more information about the book and the Central Asia Institute: http://www.ikat.org/ Author: Greg Mortenson and David Oliver Relin Publisher: Penguin Books Copyright: 2006 Genre: Current events Pages: 338 Date Read- 4/27/08 - 4/29/08 NOTES ____________ p. 47 \"Let sorrowful longing dwell in your heart. Never give up, never lose hope. Allah says. 'the broken ones are my beloved.' -S.Kheir p.68 Intellectually, the word \"Muslim' means, literally, \"to submit.\" An like many Americans who worship at the temple of \"rugged individualism\", he (Mortenson) had found the idea dehumanizing. But for the first time, knelling among a hundered strangers, watching them wash away...the aches and cares of their daily lives, he glimpsed the pleasure to be found in submission to a ritualized fellowship of prayer. p. 125 There is a candle in your heart ready to be kindled. There is a void in your soul, ready to be filled. You feel it, don't you. - Rumi p. 129 I was just an enthusiastic mountaineer of modest abilities who was willing to work quite hard and had the necessary imagination and determination. I was just an average bloke. It was the media that tried to transform me into a heroic figure. But I've learned through the years, as long as you don't believe all that rubbish about yourself, you can't come to too much harm.\" p.150 Haji Ali taught me the most important lesson I'ver ever learned in my life, \" Mortnson says. \"We Americans think you have to accomplish everything quickly. We're the country of thirty-minute power lunches and two-minute football drills. Our leaders thought their 'shock and awe' campaign could end the was in Iraq before it ever started. Haji Ali taught me to share three cups of tea, to slow down and make building relationships as important as building projects. He taught me that I had more to learn from the people I work with than I could ever hope to teach.\" p.225 Let nothing perturb you, nothing frighten you. All things pass. God does not change. Patience achieves everything. -Mother Theresa p.257 I wish that all Americans who think 'Muslim' is just another way of saying 'terrorist' could have been there that day (The school was opened.) The true core tenants of Islam are justice, tolerance and charity, and Syed Abbas represented the moderate center of Muslim faith eloquently. p. 280 \"Get out and tell Americans what you know about Muslims. You represent the goodness and courage that America is all about. Get out, don't be afraid, and spread your message for peace. Make this your finest hour.\" p. 297 'The Enemy is Ignorance' p.301 If we try to solve terrorism with military might and nothing else, then we will be no safer than we were before 9/11. If we truly want a legacy of peace for our children, we need to understand that this is a war that will be ultimately won with books, not with bombs.\" ...more Greg Mortenson was a mountaineer with his sights set on Pakistan\u2019s unforgiving K2 when a disaster in his climbing party forced him to abort his attempt on the summit. On his way down, the exhausted climber got lost and wandered into a remote and impoverished village that had never seen a Westerner before. As the kind residents helped Mortenson regain his strength, he committed to repaying them by building a school for the dozens of children he saw carving their lessons into the dirt with sticks. Greg Mortenson was a mountaineer with his sights set on Pakistan\u2019s unforgiving K2 when a disaster in his climbing party forced him to abort his attempt on the summit. On his way down, the exhausted climber got lost and wandered into a remote and impoverished village that had never seen a Westerner before. As the kind residents helped Mortenson regain his strength, he committed to repaying them by building a school for the dozens of children he saw carving their lessons into the dirt with sticks. That promise would go on to transform Mortenson from a part-time nurse and climbing nut to a man obsessed with bringing education to some of the world\u2019s most neglected people. The story of how Mortenson managed to fulfill his na\u00efve promise and go on not just to build one school, but dozens more across the remote mountains of Pakistan and Afghanistan, is nothing short of astounding. The fact that he survived this hostile environment at all, let alone succeeded in a humanitarian endeavor of such enormous proportions, is truly inspiring. Part of what permitted Mortenson to make so much progress is that he allowed himself to learn how things needed to be done from the local people. Though American, Mortenson was raised by missionaries in Africa, and his sensitivity towards and ability to integrate into another culture was a crucial part of what made this project work. In addition to providing valuable insight into the lives of a people the West knows little about, this book also offers a unique perspective of the events in Pakistan and Afghanistan that led to the current war on terror. Mortenson began building his small schools at the same time fundamentalist madrassas were also springing up in that part of the world. Though Mortenson couldn\u2019t compete with either the pace or the money spent by those with a religious agenda, his success provides a powerful model for filling the gaps that the US military has left wide open in those vulnerable places. I would recommend this amazing and educational book to pretty much anyone, but I do have to add one caveat. Though I was very moved by the story, I did not like the writing so much. The author and I seemed to have different pacing\u2014he spent long passages talking about things of little interest to me while barely touching on aspects I wanted to know much more about. I was also put off by the book\u2019s opening, which was a pumped up mix of macho adventure writing and fawning hero worship. Mortenson\u2019s story is so extraordinary it doesn\u2019t need this kind of inflation. While the author\u2019s admiration for Mortenson is understandable, I would have enjoyed this book more without this kind of embellishment. ...more I had no idea what this book was about - and it has completely blown me away. This story of Greg Mortenson's actions to build schools for girls in Pakistan and Afghanistan as a means to fight terrorism with knowledge. This book makes me question what I'm doing with my life in a very positive way. Everyone should read this - it should be required in our education system. Tell everyone you know to read this and then go out and do something just like Greg. I am opting not to give this book a star rating. The story that is being told is worthy of 10 stars. The writing doesn't live up to the story, but it isn't so bad you can't get past it. This is definitely a book everyone should read. Greg Mortenson's failure to summit K2 in Pakistan led him to the small village of Korphe where he witnessed children doing their school lessons outside in the cold unsupervised. The village couldn't afford a sheltered building or a full-time teacher. When the teacher I am opting not to give this book a star rating. The story that is being told is worthy of 10 stars. The writing doesn't live up to the story, but it isn't so bad you can't get past it. This is definitely a book everyone should read. Greg Mortenson's failure to summit K2 in Pakistan led him to the small village of Korphe where he witnessed children doing their school lessons outside in the cold unsupervised. The village couldn't afford a sheltered building or a full-time teacher. When the teacher wasn't present, the students practiced their lessons by drawing them in the dirt with sticks. This scene was the catalyst for Greg's life work. He set out on a mission to raise enough money - $12,000 - to build a school for this village. And then one school turned into a bridge, a school, a women's center...and then the projects started to spread to other Pakistani villages and ultimately to Afghanistan. What this man accomplished - is still accomplishing - and his vision are absolutely incredible. He is by all definitions a true hero. He did not set out to teach Pakistani children (especially girls) to think like American children, but rather he set out to provide them with a means to get a well-rounded education, to have a chance in life. He respected their beliefs and accepted who they were as a people. Because of that, the people rallied around him and provided the labor, the support, the safety that was necessary to improve their ways of life without destroying their beliefs. Mortenson himself has lived in virtual poverty, has been kidnapped, and has spent many months each year away from his own family to accomplish this goal. Mortenson had - still has - a view of the Middle East that most Americans never see, and he shares a small window of that view in this book. It is something we all need to see, so we aren't making the same mistakes we've made in the past. Mortenson believes that the kind of education he is helping these people to earn is what will be the strongest force against terrorism; the strongest force for promoting peace. I agree - whole-heartedly. If you have not read this book, find a copy: order if from your bookstore, check it out from the library, borrow it from a friend. You will not regret it. I will admit that the writer, David Oliver Relin, is a bit on the verbose side. The first half of the book contains a lot of unnecessary fluff, but the second half tightens up considerably. Ignore the fluff...read this book...hear Mortenson's message. You don't need to donate to the cause, just hear his message and become educated yourself! It will be our country's strongest defense against terrorism and our greatest step toward peace! ...more Okay, I'm a horrible person. But let me say one thing first - Mortenson seems like a wonderful guy who is doing something very important, and he should be celebrated to the skies for it. Just not by this book. Intersting topic, BORING book. I don't care about Mortenson's failed personal relationship with a woman who is made to sound like an uncaring, self-center b*t*h. And I don't think that it was Mortenson's doing, I think it was Relin's. I can't blame Relin for the hero worship, but the book make Okay, I'm a horrible person. But let me say one thing first - Mortenson seems like a wonderful guy who is doing something very important, and he should be celebrated to the skies for it. Just not by this book. Intersting topic, BORING book. I don't care about Mortenson's failed personal relationship with a woman who is made to sound like an uncaring, self-center b*t*h. And I don't think that it was Mortenson's doing, I think it was Relin's. I can't blame Relin for the hero worship, but the book makes Mortenson to be almost superhuman and the prose is really, really dull. I don't care about Mortenson's failed relationship; I want to know more about the schools. Sadly, one has to wade though padding to get there. The family background was interesting, but I failed to see how Mortenson getting beated up in school makes him special. Relin could have left at 80 pages out of the first 100 pages without effecting the book in any meaningful way. (The infromation about his father and sister is important, but most of the other bits, not so much). This extremely sad and depressing because Mortenson, bless his heart, is doing something right and extremely important. However, this book doesn't seem to do it justice. ...more Learned a lot about the culture of Islam. When I worked at HP I had (and still have) a good friend that's a Muslim, and he taught me quite a bit about his way of life, the Koran, the pillars of their faith, and some of their traditions and beliefs. Beyond that though my exposure to the world's second largest religion (right?) has been extremely limited. So, this book taught me a little more about Islam and some of the customs and practices of the people of Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Nepal. The b Learned a lot about the culture of Islam. When I worked at HP I had (and still have) a good friend that's a Muslim, and he taught me quite a bit about his way of life, the Koran, the pillars of their faith, and some of their traditions and beliefs. Beyond that though my exposure to the world's second largest religion (right?) has been extremely limited. So, this book taught me a little more about Islam and some of the customs and practices of the people of Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Nepal. The book is about a very unique mountaineer by the name of Greg Mortenson who stumbles upon a very poor mountain community after a failed attempt to summit K2. He promises to build them a school, and then returns to fulfill his promise in a wonderful fashion, and repeats it many times over in poor community after poor community throughout this part of the world. It's astounding to read about his courage and bravery, his commitment and determination. He risked his life time and time again for these people, and only accomplished what he did at great personal expense. What an amazing life cause. And to think amidst all of this he was able to find a wonderful soul mate whom he married after only 6 days of knowing her. Wow! It just seems like the stars really aligned for this guy time and time again, but not until he had made extraordinary personal sacrifices. I think one of the morals of this story that I took away is that the stars will always align for someone with a great purpose and with great determination and discipline. The other thing I took away from this book is that wars in Iraq, Afghanistan, and perhaps in Iran some day have probably and will probably do more harm than good. I think the war in Afghanistan was a necessity but if what I read in this book was correct then it should've been followed up with more investment in the infrastructure of the country so that we weren't just leaving a path of destruction and poverty in war's wake. I also think, more than ever before, that the war in Iraq has probably done a lot more harm than good. More than that, it was a waste of precious resources that could've been spent and invested in much more positive ways. Rather than spend billions on toppling regimes and trying to blow up terrorists why don't we build schools and invest in the infrastructure and economies of these countries. Let's give their people opportunity. Let's pull them out of their ignorance. Let's fight the pernicious spread of evil fundamentalist Islam madrassas. Let's recognize the root cause of the hatred of these people and solve the problem at it's core. For the most part, I think the leaders of our country are and ever will be completely incapable of understanding what the greatest threats to our society truly are. They will miss the most important problems that threaten our way of life and throw billions at the easy, popular targets. They will never understand that the disintegration of the family is the greatest threat to our way of life. They will chase terrorists abroad, make new enemies, and all the while miss the opportunity to strengthen our families here at home and make friends abroad by investing in those countries, giving them a hand up, and eliminating ignorance. ...more What a strange combination of feelings I have upon closing this book. Mortenson laughingly portrayed himself as the big, loud American, bumbling his way crassly into an unknown culture, which made me dislike him and his obnoxious ways right from the start. Knowing ahead of time that Mortenson's school building business was a sham, I had trouble trusting any of the facts revealed here. I did, however, enjoy learning a bit about the history of Pakistan and it was fascinating to learn about pre-9/1 What a strange combination of feelings I have upon closing this book. Mortenson laughingly portrayed himself as the big, loud American, bumbling his way crassly into an unknown culture, which made me dislike him and his obnoxious ways right from the start. Knowing ahead of time that Mortenson's school building business was a sham, I had trouble trusting any of the facts revealed here. I did, however, enjoy learning a bit about the history of Pakistan and it was fascinating to learn about pre-9/11 business transactions. Reading this at the same time as reading I Am Malala: The Girl Who Stood Up for Education and Was Shot by the Taliban gave me a strong understanding of what Pakistan used to be like and what it is like today. The desperate need for education, especially for girls, is evident in both accounts but Mortenson shows that progress was being made before the war in Afghanistan and Malala shows that such progress has halted and reversed. Above all, I am struck by the bizarre choice of voice that Mortenson used to relay his story. The book is supposedly written by Mortenson, yet he chose to write about himself in the third person. More striking than that is that much of the narrative is told in the present tense. \"Mortenson says\" is perhaps the most common phrase within the book. Do you tell stories about yourself in the third person present? Only Jimmy in Seinfeld does this. It is very off-putting as it feels like Mortenson is interviewing himself and praising himself for a job well done. A heavy handed editor could have turned this convoluted and wordy memoir into something worthwhile. ...more I was really looking forward to reading this book but I have to say that overall I was not too impressed. Generally the message is an positive and encouraging one, if you put in enough effort then you can make a difference, even in the most challenging or out of the way locations where it seems like a totally impossible Sisyphean task (analogy appropriate for the hill reference). The story was an interesting one and Mortensen should be commended for the dedication he has shown to helping provide I was really looking forward to reading this book but I have to say that overall I was not too impressed. Generally the message is an positive and encouraging one, if you put in enough effort then you can make a difference, even in the most challenging or out of the way locations where it seems like a totally impossible Sisyphean task (analogy appropriate for the hill reference). The story was an interesting one and Mortensen should be commended for the dedication he has shown to helping provide an education for women, and for identifying other projects which with a little money can change lives; the womens centres and water projects are much needed. Unfortunately all of this is overshadowed by the slightly odd writing style - part narrative, part interview - which for me ruined the flow of the story. Also there was the not unexpected back patting and horn blowing and calling Mortensen a hero. Yes, it's great that you did a good thing but the altruism of it all is kind of reduced by highlighting just what a hero you are.Yes, many have the capacity to do good, but the oober smugness... really... it detracts from the act itself and induces universal eye rolling! To conclude, well done Mr Mortensen for all your efforts but your promo biog could have been better written! (Note: I'm not going to include an indepth analysis of some of the mud slinging over what Greg Mortensen may or may not have said and done with truth/money/organisation at his disposal. I'm only here to talk about the book ;) ) ...more<+++>Three Cups of Tea: One Man's Mission to Promote Peace ... One School at a Time</+++>", "Title": "Three Cups of Tea: One Man's Mission to Promote Peace ... One School at a Time"},
