{"Comments": "I heard Goodwin talk about this book on NPR, and she sounded like she'd been an eyewitness to the events.<---F> Sold me the book</---F>. On June 17th--I've been a hundred pages from the end for ten days. I don't want Abe to die. July 17th -- Okay, I finally made myself finish. Abe's dead and I'm a wreck. In this book Goodwin puts <---C>Abraham Lincoln</---C> in the context of his peers, many of whom ran against him for the first Republican nomination for president (<---B>remember they'd just invented that party</---B>) and one of whom, I heard Goodwin talk about this book on NPR, and she sounded like she'd been an eyewitness to the events. Sold me the book. On June 17th--I've been a hundred pages from the end for ten days. I don't want Abe to die. July 17th -- Okay, I finally made myself finish. Abe's dead and I'm a wreck. In this book Goodwin puts Abraham Lincoln in the context of his peers, many of whom ran against him for the first Republican nomination for president (remember they'd just invented that party) and one of whom, Stanton, had treated him with outright contempt in a law case years before. Seward accepted the job of Secretary of State thinking Lincoln would be his puppet, and Chase literally ran his second campaign for president out of the Department of the Treasury. Lincoln understood them all,<---M> tolerated them all</---M>, put them all to work for the nation that needed them so badly, and jollied, coaxed, cajoled and reasoned them all to victory. A reporter asked him how he could take all these vipers to his bosom and Lincoln replied that these were the best and most able men available and their country needed them, and that he wouldn't be doing his job if he didn't put them to work for it. There can't be anyone who has ever occupied the Oval Office more selfless than Abe. This book is wonderfully written, accessible even to the most casual reader, full of humor and choler and kindness and vitriol, and wisdom. Goodwin has that ability known only to the best historians (David McCullough does, too) to pluck the exact quote necessary from the record to illuminate the scene she is describing, and make the transition from past to present seamless. Listen to Goodwin on Lincoln in his 1862 state of the union address (pp. 406-7): ...he closed his message with a graceful and irrefutable argument against the continuation of slavery in a democratic society, the very essence of which opened \"the way to all,\" granted \"hope to all,\" and advanced the \"condition of all.\" In this \"just, and generous, and prosperous system,\" he reasoned, \"labor is prior to, and independent of, capital.\" Then, reflecting upon the vicissitudes of his own experience, Lincoln added: \"The prudent, penniless beginner in the world, labors for wages awhile, saves a surplus with which to buy tools or land for himself; then labors on his own account another while, and at length hires another new beginner to help him.\" Clearly this upward mobility, the possibility of self-realization so central to the idea of America, was closed to the slave unless and until he became a free man. The American Dream, articulated, in words guaranteed to be understood by everyone. You close this book knowing not just about these people, you actually feel like you know them, especially Abe. Impossible, after reading this book, not to wonder what our nation would look like had Lincoln survived his second term. Impossible not to grieve his loss. ...more As a history lover, I'm a bit of a snob. While everyone is rushing to purchase the newest warm-milk entry from David McCullough, I make a show of purchasing turgid, poorly edited treatises put out by university presses about some guy who did something long ago that doesn't really matter anymore. Of course, as every snob eventually learns, being snobbish is like slamming a hammer down on your thumb: you only hurt yourself; and everyone thinks you're an idiot. When it was published, Team of Rivals As a history lover, I'm a bit of a snob. While everyone is rushing to purchase the newest warm-milk entry from David McCullough, I make a show of purchasing turgid, poorly edited treatises put out by university presses about some guy who did something long ago that doesn't really matter anymore. Of course, as every snob eventually learns, being snobbish is like slamming a hammer down on your thumb: you only hurt yourself; and everyone thinks you're an idiot. When it was published, Team of Rivals became the \"it\" book of popular fiction, achieving something of the mass audience of McCullough's John Adams . That meant, of course, that I put on my beret, grew a pencil mustache, and turned up my nose at the very notion of reading it. While I was ignoring Team of Rivals , however, it did something more than sell millions of copies: it added something to the cultural lexicon. The phrase \"team of rivals\" is this year's \"perfect storm.\" Used by <---A>Doris Kearns Goodwin</---A> to describe Abraham Lincoln and his Presidential sounding-board, it has been hijacked by cable newscasters as a quick way to add false insight into President Obama's selection of the Cabinet. To demonstrate my belief that the phrase was overused, I decided to play the \"team of rivals\" drinking game while watching Wolf Blitzer one afteroon. At some point, I blacked out. Before I did, however, my pillow came to life and told me that Stephen A. Douglas cheated during his debates with Lincoln by using a teleprompter. Then I threw up in the fireplace. Anyway, my point is, I've forgotten what I was talking about, due to the short-term memory loss I have from playing the \"team of rivals\" drinking game. Now I remember. I eventually got over myself and read Team of Rivals . And it appears that everyone reading it on the subway was right: it's super. Team of Rivals is a Lincoln book that manages to find a fresh angle on a man written about as much as Jesus. Rather than placing Lincoln directly front-and-center, Goodwin focuses on Lincoln's cabinet, providing us with mini-biographies. of Salmon Chase (Secretary of the Treasury), Edward Bates (Attorney General), and William H. Seward (Secretary of State). The book starts with the Republican National Convention of 1860, where Lincoln faced off with Chase, Bates, and Seward (the favorite). This is the best part of the book - learning about the lives of these three exceptional men. Goodwin does an amazing job making these characters come to thrilling life in just a few pages. She weaves them together while highlighting both their similarities and their differences. For instance, she introduces Lincoln's Treasury Secretary: Salmon Portland Chase, in contrast to the ever buoyant Seward, possessed a restless soul incapable of finding satisfaction in his considerable achievements. He was forever brooding on a station in life not yet reached, recording at each turning point in his life regret at not capitalizing on the opportunities given to him. Then there's my favorite character, Edwin Stanton, the beautifully-bearded Secretary of War: Six years younger than Chase, Stanton was a brilliant young lawyer from Steubenville, Ohio. He had been active in Democratic politics from his earliest days. A short, stout man, with thick brows and intense black eyes hidden behind steel-rimmed glasses, Stanton had grown up in a Quaker family dedicated to abolition. He later told the story that 'when he was a boy his father had - like the father of Hannibal against Rome - made him swear eternal hostility to slavery.' Stanton originally thought Lincoln an incompetent boob. Lincoln didn't take this personally, and replaced the actually-incompetent Simon Cameron with Stanton after the first year of the war. The two developed an incredible working relationship, and upon Lincoln's death, it was the distraught Stanton told the world he uttered the immortal phrase: \"Now he belongs to the Ages.\" (Strikingly, no one around Lincoln's death bed remembers Stanton saying this. Maybe he just thought it, and wished he'd said it). After giving us a quadruple bio of Lincoln, Seward, Chase and Bates, the rivals for the nomination, Goodwin takes us through the Civil War. Her focus is not on the ins-and-outs of the various battles, which have been well covered in several million books; rather, she views everything through the prism of Lincoln's cabinet. This is a well-told, lucid, propulsive story. Even someone who's never read a book on Lincoln or the Civil War will follow along just nicely (this is why Goodwin is such a marvelous popular historian, in the vein of McCullough). I do have one major complaint, however, and it is fairly substantive. The book's title and its focus is its thesis: that Lincoln's \"team of rivals,\" his disparate cabinet, was a good thing. This just isn't borne out in the story she tells. Bates, after a big rollout, nearly disappears. Salmon Chase is a wrong fit from the start, and Lincoln eventually has to appoint him to the Supreme Court to get rid of him. Lincoln had to sack Cameron and install Stanton, who eventually turned out to be a good choice. In the end, Lincoln took on a great deal of responsibility himself. Long before Truman, the buck stopped with him. Some of his big moments, such as the Emancipation Proclamation, came as a surprise to his Cabinet. Indeed, the Emancipation Proclamation shows how bad the \"team of rivals\" idea can be. It sharply divided the cabinet, with Lincoln receiving advice of varying degrees. (Bates and Stanton for it immediately; Chase and Caleb Smith against it). Then there was Seward, a smart man who wasn't as smart as Lincoln: William Henry Seward's mode of intricate analysis produced a characteristically complex reaction to the proclamation. After the others had spoken, he expressed his worry that the proclamation might provoke a racial war in the South so disruptive to cotton that the ruling classes in England and France would intervene to protect their economic interests. As secretary of state, Seward was particularly sensitive to the threat of European intervention. Curiously, despite his greater access to intelligence from abroad, Seward failed to grasp what Lincoln intuitively understood: that once the Union truly committed itself to emancipation, the masses in Europe, who regarded slavery as an evil demanding eradication, would not be easily maneuvered into supporting the South. Here, Goodwin is telling a great story. This is a powerful narrative that takes something we all sorta know about - the Emancipation Proclamation - and gives us all the nitty-gritty details in a fascinating manner. This is what great history writing is all about. However, this scene also helps also demolishes her thesis. This was a bickering, troublesome, quarreling cabinet. Lincoln was left to make his own decisions (though in fairness to Seward, he did have the clever idea of waiting until a victory in battle to announce the Proclamation). I also don't agree with the foundation of Goodwin's thesis: that Lincoln was a dark horse candidate and felt he needed to nominate Seward, Chase, Bates, et al. in order to shore up his Presidency. Lincoln was not the unknown, backwoods rustic portrayed by Goodwin. Rather, he was an extremely talented and successful lawyer; was backed by a coterie of powerful ex-Whigs and Republicans; and had become nationally famous during and after the Lincoln-Douglas Debates. Heck, the convention was held in Chicago, Illinois! Coincidence? Hardly. Team of Rivals continues beyond the Civil War and Lincoln's assassination, following the lives of the Cabinet members beyond the Administration. Seward, of course, had the most impact post-Lincoln. His purchase of Alaska ensured our great nation decade-after-decade of iconoclastic, individualistic citizens who hate the intrusion of the Federal Government but love the hundreds of millions of dollars they get from the Federal Government. (Thanks, Seward! Ya big dumb jerk!) The end of the book is touching, powerful, and melancholy. I admit I got chills when Goodwin related a story told by Tolstoy: Tolstoy was visiting a tribal chief in the Caucuses and he was regaling the tribe with stories of Alexander, Frederick the Great and Caesar. When Tolstoy stood to leave, the tribal chief stopped him: \"But you have not told us a syllable about the greatest general and greatest ruler of the world. We want to know something about him. He was a hero. He spoke with a voice of thunder; he laughed like the sunrise and his deeds were strong as the rock...His name was Lincoln and the country in which he lived is called America, which is so far away that if a youth should journey to reach it he would be an old man when he arrived. Tell us of that man.\" If you want to learn about that man, and the great thing he achieved, or even if you think you know the story front to back, this is a readable, genuinely enjoyable addition to the Lincoln canon. ...more I would have given this book more stars if I could have. I think I loved this book so much because Abraham Lincoln was such an absolutely amazing person. We are all taught that Lincoln was one of America's great presidents, and we know that he issued the Emancipation Proclamation, but he is so much greater of a man than I ever knew. Lincoln was super smart, wise, and incredibly compassionate and empathetic. While unsure of his own faith, Lincoln, through his own care for others, was so much more I would have given this book more stars if I could have. I think I loved this book so much because Abraham Lincoln was such an absolutely amazing person. We are all taught that Lincoln was one of America's great presidents, and we know that he issued the Emancipation Proclamation, but he is so much greater of a man than I ever knew. Lincoln was super smart, wise, and incredibly compassionate and empathetic. While unsure of his own faith, Lincoln, through his own care for others, was so much more of a Christ-like person than the overtly pious self-righteous Salmon Chase (Lincoln's former rival and Secretary of the Treasury who, while disparaging of others characters, allowed himself to be uncritical of his own unethical actions [much like our current president - in my opinion]). This book showed Mary Lincoln in a better light than I had expected. I had always had the impression that Mary was a real stinker, and while she definitely had her faults that must have been caused real difficulties for the president, she also had many good qualities. One thing that impressed me is how she personally gave service to soldiers while not allowing any of her kind actions to be made known to the Washington social elite. While Mary may not have always been easy to live with, I felt kind of bad for her since she suffered from such severe migraines and depression. Who's to say for sure, but this book left me with the impression that Mary probably really tried to be a good gal despite her mental/physical problems. I did like the point of view of this book. Telling the history of Lincoln's political and personal life inclusive with the lives of his opponents-turned-collaborators not only gave a more complete view of the times and happenings of the mid 1800s, but it demonstrated in a few cases what Lincoln did so widely, humbly, and deftly; turn those against him into believers and supporters of his work. One interesting thing that Lincoln did that I loved about him, and can't stand about George W. Bush, is that Lincoln, while not being dishonest, again unlike our current president, used much political slide-of-hand to get things done. I guess the biggest difference between Lincoln and some of our modern politicians is that while this technique is used today to cover up wrongdoings or cheating, Lincoln used it to help bring unity back to the nation and freedom to all people. ...more When Rod Blagojevich was impeached and hauled off to prison, that made four of the previous seven Illinois governors to have done time. Countless representatives and aldermen have been locked up, too. Then there was my wife\u2019s favorite: a former Secretary of State found after his death to have $800,000 stuffed in shoe boxes. Our reputation for corrupt politicians is, I dare say, unsurpassed. Fortunately, we here in the Land of Lincoln (as we call it on our license plates) have one historical figu When Rod Blagojevich was impeached and hauled off to prison, that made four of the previous seven Illinois governors to have done time. Countless representatives and aldermen have been locked up, too. Then there was my wife\u2019s favorite: a former Secretary of State found after his death to have $800,000 stuffed in shoe boxes. Our reputation for corrupt politicians is, I dare say, unsurpassed. Fortunately, we here in the Land of Lincoln (as we call it on our license plates) have one historical figure capable of tipping the scales back towards respectability. I\u2019ve taken a real interest in Abe and his legacy in recent months (more on why in a minute). Of the books I\u2019ve read, this one and David Herbert Donald\u2019s Lincoln are my favorites. They both deserve credit for finding unique space within what is arguably the most densely populated expanse of American history. Goodwin focused on Lincoln\u2019s clever leadership in bringing together a group of his former opponents, thinking them to be the most capable cabinet members at a very challenging time. We get thoroughly researched sketches of: Edwin Stanton \u2013 a bitter rival contemptuous of Lincoln when they were both involved in a famous court case. He called Lincoln a long armed ape, but was subsequently recruited by a magnanimous Lincoln to be Secretary of War and grew to love the President. Salmon Chase \u2013 one of the founders of the new Republican Party who felt he was owed the nomination that Lincoln ultimately won, later did laudable work as Lincoln\u2019s Treasury Secretary. William Seward \u2013 a senator and later governor of New York, was certain he was going to win the nomination in 1860. After Lincoln offered him the Secretary of State post, Seward figured on seizing power by essentially running his own government within the cabinet only to discover Lincoln\u2019s skill at bringing different factions together. In Seward\u2019s capacity as the anti-yes man, he became Lincoln\u2019s best ally and friend. Edward Bates \u2013 a senior presence within the party who was coaxed into running against Lincoln in the primaries. After losing that battle he reluctantly took the job as Attorney General for the good of the troubled nation. He initially thought of Lincoln as an incompetent bureaucrat, but ultimately concluded that he was \u201cvery near being a \u2018perfect man.\u2019\u201d Naturally, most of the spotlight fell on Lincoln himself. Goodwin showed us the tricky waters that led to the Emancipation Proclamation on 4/1/1863 \u2013 a Good Friday in every way \u2013 as well as other less famous but still important milestones that required a masterful helmsman. I give her ample credit for underscoring his sound judgment, his political savvy, his wry sense of humor, and his superabundant humanity. So why my sudden interest in Lincoln? I thought you\u2019d never ask. Aside from the fact that he is probably the most analyzed and lionized figure in American history, it looks like I have a personal connection as well. I was revisiting some genealogical research I\u2019d started years ago, knowing that the internet now reveals more ties than those dusty tomes I used to find in libraries and court houses ever did. One of my ancestors, Joseph Hanks, had a sister named Lucy who I\u2019d never bothered following up on before. Anyway, according to ancestry.com, she was the mother of an illegitimate daughter named Nancy who was, by all known accounts, Abe\u2019s mother. It was one of those can-this-really-be-true moments. But I triple-checked every link and am as sure as anyone can be given existing records that Abe is my second cousin six times removed. I\u2019d originally thought to look into a DNA test like the one they did to explain all those red-haired, brown-skinned kids running around Monticello, but then decided against it. I wouldn\u2019t know who to contact, it would likely be expensive, and I\u2019d rather just assume that it\u2019s true. Of course I realize this is a watered down relationship, and for all I know hundreds if not thousands of other people can make this same claim. I have to confess, though, that for a while I thought of myself differently. My gaunt face and hollow cheeks were no longer flaws, but indicative family traits. And though I haven\u2019t tried to grow a beard in years, I\u2019m certain if I did, it would be scraggly. I even looked for examples where I could count myself as a cut above in probity, eloquence and fair-mindedness. Before I got to the point of imagining Daniel Day-Lewis playing me in a biopic of my soon-to-be famous life, I realized that I was still just me \u2013 a guy who needs to remember that humility is one of his few attractive traits. Besides, (this is the really weird part) I did more digging into my family roots and discovered that my great-great-grandmother, Cora Claudine Flickinger from Byhalia, Ohio had a sister named Lula Dell Flickinger who the internet shows was the grandmother of one Barbara Pierce Bush. That makes me a somewhat less diluted third cousin once removed of George W. Bush. Suffice it to say I now think of these genealogical ties as less meaningful. I lack the power and initiative to unshackle an oppressed segment of society, but then I don\u2019t feel any compulsion to invade Iraq either. So please understand I\u2019m not obsessed by my connections, but today of all days, after reviewing this wonderful book, I feel enough of a kinship to quote my famous cousins. As Lincoln said, \u201cYou can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time.\u201d Cousin Dubya modified the quote (for real) observing that, \u201cYou can fool some of the people all the time, and those are the ones you want to concentrate on.\u201d Are any of you picturing Pinocchio in a jester\u2019s hat right now, perhaps in place of a white Rubik\u2019s cube? Any theories on why I feel compelled to do this? I\u2019m curious myself. Am I dissatisfied with reality and need the artifice to spice things up? (No, I\u2019m luckier than most and I know it.) Am I simply attempting to entertain? (Hmm\u2026 sounds a little too noble and generous \u2013 probably not.) Am I trying to switch the focus away from anything relevant to shine the light on me, myself and I? (That\u2019s probably closest to the mark. Either that or I\u2019ve got a genetic predisposition for dis honesty.) If there\u2019s any good that\u2019s come of this, it\u2019s that I\u2019m now truly eager to read Team of Rivals . ...more (Please forgive me resorting to a tired trick and leading off with a definition from the dictionary, but there is a point to it.) pol-i-ti-cian 1: a person experienced in the art or science of government; especially : one actively engaged in conducting the business of a government 2A : a person engaged in party politics as a profession 2B: a person primarily interested in political office for selfish or other narrow usually short-sighted reasons Americans these days seem to think that 2B is the only (Please forgive me resorting to a tired trick and leading off with a definition from the dictionary, but there is a point to it.) pol-i-ti-cian 1: a person experienced in the art or science of government; especially : one actively engaged in conducting the business of a government 2A : a person engaged in party politics as a profession 2B: a person primarily interested in political office for selfish or other narrow usually short-sighted reasons Americans these days seem to think that 2B is the only definition for the word, and even the first meaning is considered an insult because if you actually know how the government works, then you\u2019re guilty by association. Hell, politicians now deny being politicians as they try to get reelected to political office while screaming about how all politicians suck. (Or the Tea Party just finds the angriest moron around to run.) It\u2019s weird that it\u2019s become such a dirty word because one of the greatest Americans by almost any sane person\u2019s standard was Abraham Lincoln. While the myth may be that he was just this humble log splitter and backwoods lawyer who bumbled into the White House during one of the country\u2019s darkest hours and fortunately turned out to be the perfect leader for the time, the truth is that Abe was one super bad-ass politician in the sense of definitions #1 and #2A, but luckily 2B didn\u2019t apply at all. All American kids hear about Abe in school. We learn about the Civil War and the Emancipation Proclamation and the Gettysburg Address and the 13th Amendment, but they never really tell you how Abe managed to win a war that should have permanently split the country and end an evil institution that even the Founding Fathers had just left as some future generation\u2019s problem. Reading Team of Rivals gives you an understanding of how Lincoln accomplished this, and the simple answer is that he was a politician of uncanny skill. He had a great sense of timing as well as being empathetic enough to see the other side of any argument while never swaying once he had fully committed himself to a course of action he thought right or necessary. The thing that made him unique was the almost inhuman way he could put his own ego and anger aside to find ways to work with people he had every reason to distrust or even hate. As this book details, Lincoln\u2019s selection and handling of his own cabinet highlight what made him such a great president. He managed to convince some of the biggest power brokers and politicians of his day, many of whom he had beaten out for the presidency, to work for the common good as members of his administration. Even though this meant dealing with constant bickering and political intrigue, Lincoln still got outstanding achievements from all of them, and most of the men who once saw him as an overmatched fool eventually came to regard him as one of the smartest and most honorable men of the age. Well researched and written in an entertaining style, this book also shows how little has changed in American politics. The tactics of the kind of people who would defend slavery and smear Lincoln seem familiar in many ways. They just used newspapers instead of a cable news channel and talk radio. One odd thing: I started this after seeing the Spielberg movie, and I knew that only a small part of the book was actually about the passage of the 13th Amendment that the movie centers on. However, there\u2019s not nearly as much as I thought there would be. It seems like only a few pages are spent on it, so it\u2019s a little weird that the movie would cite it so heavily. On the other hand, the details of Lincoln's personality in here are all over Daniel Day-Lewis\u2019s great performance. ...more Put aside whatever you're reading now--yes, even those compelling vampire/romance books--and pick up this book. It's that good. Even though Goodwin is writing about Lincoln's cabinet, her work is eerily contemporary, given Obama's situation. Everyone but a handful of people thought Lincoln had risen too fast and was too untried to take charge of a desperate crises facing the country. Goodwin uses the main characters' diaries, letters, journals, and speeches to show how that opinion gradually cha Put aside whatever you're reading now--yes, even those compelling vampire/romance books--and pick up this book. It's that good. Even though Goodwin is writing about Lincoln's cabinet, her work is eerily contemporary, given Obama's situation. Everyone but a handful of people thought Lincoln had risen too fast and was too untried to take charge of a desperate crises facing the country. Goodwin uses the main characters' diaries, letters, journals, and speeches to show how that opinion gradually changed. If Obama has half of Lincoln's greatness of heart, we are in good hands. ...more Biographies aren't always boring tomes. Doris Kearns Goodwin does a magnificent job of detailing how Abraham Lincoln, a lesser known and ill-positioned candidate captures the Republican party's nomination, goes on to get elected President, and leads America through the tumult of the Civil War. While most of us know Lincoln as \"honest Abe\" and the President who emancipated slaves, Kearns-Goodwin offers a portrait of a man who took many of the men who'd he'd beaten out as the republican nominee int Biographies aren't always boring tomes. Doris Kearns Goodwin does a magnificent job of detailing how Abraham Lincoln, a lesser known and ill-positioned candidate captures the Republican party's nomination, goes on to get elected President, and leads America through the tumult of the Civil War. While most of us know Lincoln as \"honest Abe\" and the President who emancipated slaves, Kearns-Goodwin offers a portrait of a man who took many of the men who'd he'd beaten out as the republican nominee into his Presidential Cabinet. His offering them positions of significance in his Administration--positions that had the power to ruin his presidency--seemed, at least initially, to many as the act of a political neophyte or backwater bumpkin. As the Civil War is being prosecuted, readers get to see how strategic Lincoln\u2019s use of man's personal ambitions and commitments to country made them effective members of the Cabinet. Kearns-Goodwin's narrative offers timely reminders how a nation at war undergoes philosophical and political tensions that will takes years to heal. In reading the book, there were times when the circumstances or politicians involved in the civil war could just as easily have been the circumstances and politicians involved in the war in Iraq. The book does an admirable job of showing the nuances of the internal conflicts that Lincoln faced abut social and political issues of the times. While he believed slaves should be free, he was slow to adapt that they should be granted suffrage. At the same time he welcomed Frederick Douglass into the White House, argued the merits of equal pay for black and white soldiers, and offered the first African American attorney the opportunity to argue before the Supreme Court. Great history lesson that was also surprisingly readable. ...more In 1860, the fledgling Republican Party nominated its second candidate for the Presidency of the United States. Four men competed for the honor: William Seward, a U.S. Senator, former governor of New York and one of the most honored and experienced politicians of his day; Edward Bates, a former congressman from Missouri; Salmon P. Chase, a former U.S. Senator and former governor of Ohio who had played a significant role in founding the party; and Abraham Lincoln, until very recently a little-kno In 1860, the fledgling Republican Party nominated its second candidate for the Presidency of the United States. Four men competed for the honor: William Seward, a U.S. Senator, former governor of New York and one of the most honored and experienced politicians of his day; Edward Bates, a former congressman from Missouri; Salmon P. Chase, a former U.S. Senator and former governor of Ohio who had played a significant role in founding the party; and Abraham Lincoln, until very recently a little-known lawyer from Illinois who had served one term in the U.S. House of Representatives in the late 1840s. As the convention neared, Seward was the presumptive favorite and considered himself the best of the possible candidates while Chase assumed that the convention owed him the nomination because of his early service to the party. But Chase ran an inept campaign and was unable even to win the consolidated support of his own home state. Several of the candidates had been dismissive of Lincoln. Seward clearly assumed that he was superior to the Illinoisan both intellectually and in terms of his political experience. In the end, though, Lincoln ran a brilliant campaign, cleverly positioning himself as the first choice of a few delegates to the Chicago convention but as the second choice of a good many others. And when none of the other candidates could garner enough votes to win the nomination, Lincoln emerged with the prize on the fourth ballot. His rivals, Seward in particular, were stunned by the outcome. But then, perhaps even more surprisingly, Lincoln invited all of his fractious rivals into his cabinet and when some initially demurred, Lincoln effectively maneuvered them into joining the administration. Seward became Secretary of State; Chase, Secretary of the Treasury, and Bates, Attorney General. As Secretary of War, Lincoln initially selected Simon Cameron. But it early became apparent that Cameron was not up to the demands of the job and so Lincoln turned to another \"rival,\" Edwin M. Stanton, a celebrated lawyer. Stanton had been briefly associated with Lincoln in an important court case in 1855, but he had contemptuously dismissed Lincoln and at one point referred to the future president at a \"long armed ape.\" Many assumed that Lincoln had made an horrendous mistake in forming the administration. Seward, for example, took the position as Secretary of State assuming that he would be the power behind the throne and that Lincoln would be a mere figurehead, taking his directions from the New Yorker. But The new President was determined to put into place the most talented men he could find, especially at such a critical moment in the nation's history, and he was perfectly willing to put behind him any slights or disagreements he might once have had with them. Lincoln quickly proved all of the critics wrong, Seward included. In fairly short order, he demonstrated that he would clearly be the master of his own political household and that he was easily the most talented member of the administration. He would spend the next four years mediating among these opinionated and often disagreeable men while at the same time demanding that each give his best effort in the enormous task of saving the Union and, ultimately, freeing the slaves. Seward would ultimately become Lincoln's closest friend in Washington, readily admitting that he had vastly underestimated the President and that no one could have done a better job. In time, all of the other men were won over as well and together, this team of rivals, under Lincoln's direction, made perhaps the most significant contribution to the future of the nation of any presidential administration. Doris Kearns Goodwin has, in effect, written the political biographies of these five distinguished men and demonstrated how Lincoln brilliantly brought them together and made the best use of their talents. She also clearly demonstrates how Lincoln was clearly the best choice for the Republican nomination in 1860, and how lucky we are as a nation that he was there to answer the call. Though much of this story is familiar, Goodwin brings a new perspective to it and provides a valuable contribution to our understanding of the Lincoln administration. The book is well researched and beautifully written. Certainly it will be of great importance to anyone interested in the topic of Abraham Lincoln and the Civil War. ...more Although there are two books squeezed between the covers this remains readable. The first book is an account of the competition for the Republican candidacy and the beginning of the Lincoln administration. Here is a slightly different story about the developing USA, the changing, growing country and the kinds of political careers and ambitions available to men in it. There is a very serious heavyweight argument I felt lurking in the prose that never comes to the forefront and possible never devel Although there are two books squeezed between the covers this remains readable. The first book is an account of the competition for the Republican candidacy and the beginning of the Lincoln administration. Here is a slightly different story about the developing USA, the changing, growing country and the kinds of political careers and ambitions available to men in it. There is a very serious heavyweight argument I felt lurking in the prose that never comes to the forefront and possible never developed in the author's mind about how one could become a political figure in early nineteenth-century America. Still we're told an entertaining tale about the backgrounds, rivalries and capers that led to Lincoln clinching the candidacy and then going on to win the presidency. The story that we are then told of Lincoln eventually asserting his authority over his one time political rivalries is ok, but could have been extended to look at his dealing with his generals. The dynamic between Seward or McClellan and Lincoln strikes me as similar. The self-conscious expert looking to assert their authority relative to the titular Chief. This issue of how a newcomer to a position manages to assert themselves and deals with competing authorities is a fairly basic problem, one which many readers will themselves have had experience of. Certainly a similar book could be written about most political administrations, but the concept of seeing Lincoln's first administration as a team of rivals is still interesting, although underdeveloped. The sources might not allow a thorough understanding of what happened but there has been a lot of work on teams, team building and leadership. I don't mean that I expected to see an analysis in terms of storming, norming and performing, but there are theoretical frameworks which Goodwin chose to ignore in favour of the cosier narrative format. Nor does she put Lincoln's experience of making himself into the president and asserting his authority in context - all the more surprising since the author has written about other US presidents. While this was the first republican administration the need to accommodate different groupings, power bases or ambitious personalities was hardly unique to Lincoln. The idea however rather runs out of steam once his leadership is established during his first year in office. The author anyway continues the narrative to Lincoln's death. This is where the second book kicks in - it's just a biography of Lincoln with no particular new argument to make. It was no less entertaining to read, but wasn't relevant to the notion of a team of rivals. This was my first and so far only Lincoln biography, despite it's bulk as a whole it is a nice, moderately fresh political account, cosy, lacking in ambition, unchallenging but thoroughly readable and entertaining. There's probably an essay already written on the subject of President Obama's references to wanting his cabinet to be a team of rivals (view spoiler) [ as fine a bit of advertising as any author could wish for (hide spoiler) ] , perhaps the best that can be said is that there is a charisma to high political office which the successful holder, if sufficiently capable, can use to their advantage to outmanoeuvre or win over potential rivals - irrespective of their presumed or actual power bases. ...more This is the book that the film \u201cLincoln\u201d is somewhat based on. President Obama has said that he looks to Lincoln as a model leader. He should. In TEAM OF RIVALS Lincoln brings genius to the adage \u201cfriends close, enemies closer.\u201d (I thought it would make sense to start this while I'm still reading Gone With the Wind .) This isn't a straight-up biography of Lincoln. And it's certainly not a history of the Civil War. Instead it's a portrait of Lincoln, defined by the diverse men he surrounded himself with on his Cabinet. In particular, Goodwin focuses on the 4 major contenders in the Republican national convention: Lincoln, Seward, Chase and Bates. The better part of the book takes place leading up to Lincoln's 1860 election (I thought it would make sense to start this while I'm still reading Gone With the Wind .) This isn't a straight-up biography of Lincoln. And it's certainly not a history of the Civil War. Instead it's a portrait of Lincoln, defined by the diverse men he surrounded himself with on his Cabinet. In particular, Goodwin focuses on the 4 major contenders in the Republican national convention: Lincoln, Seward, Chase and Bates. The better part of the book takes place leading up to Lincoln's 1860 election to his death in 1865. It's a fascinating, fabulous look at the politics behind the man. I'll be honest: politics - the rhetoric, the deal-making, the personal wrangling - bores me to tears. In addition, the details and minutia of war generally bores me silly. (I'm looking at you War & Peace !) Although quite necessarily, this book is mostly about these two things, politics and the U.S. Civil War, I was enthralled. Never before had details of when, where and how to make decisions seemed to be more vital to elucidate the nature of a man. And it's really hard not to fall in love with Lincoln. The focus of the book, that Lincoln chose to surround himself with opposing personal advisers in Washington and Generals on the battlefield, not only shows his self-assured character to deal with warring factions but also shows his wont and need to ponder all sides of an argument before reaching a decision. What struck me the most about Lincoln, however, is his ability to let criticisms roll off his back, maintain his composure, and disarm people with a quick joke or story. If only I could have met Lincoln to hear some of these retorts in person! I should mention that Goodwin doesn't shy away from Lincoln's mistakes or lapses in judgment. Particularly surprising was his gathering of free black leaders from the North at the White House to propose a plan of resettling all blacks residing in the U.S. to a new settlement somewhere in Central or South America. Luckily that proposal didn't go much further than that meeting. He occasionally let the temper get the best of him, but was quick to mend the broken fences. I also appreciated Goodwin's inclusion of the women behind and beside Lincoln and his leaders. She presents quite a balanced portrait of these remarkable and distinguished women. It's quite clear that many of the men relied on their wives and daughters for council at work and with personal relationship. Mary Todd Lincoln was something else. Despite her wild mood swings, Lincoln by all accounts remained calm and kind to her. It's a pretty fascinating relationship, and not one I can understand or relate to. After finishing the book, my first reaction is to immediately pick up other Lincoln books. (By the way, the page count is a bit deceiving - in the paperback edition, there's 'only' 757 pages of text. The rest are index and extensive bibliography.) The natural one to go to would be John Nicolay and John Hay's Abraham Lincoln: A Biography , but it's a 7 volume work! There are many condensed copies out there. Hay and Nicolay were Lincoln's personal secretaries/assistants who slept in the White House, and were quite intimate with Lincoln. The other book I'm dying to get to - because it's subject isn't really covered in Team of Rivals is Manhunt: The 12-Day Chase for Lincoln's Killer . Likewise, I'm eager to read Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass . And I think Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era would round out my Civil War education nicely. Feel free to throw any other suggestions my way! ...more I've always thought Abraham Lincoln was the greatest president in U.S. history, and now, after reading Team of Rivals, I'm convinced of that. His political genius allowed him to harness the talents and tame the \u201clesser angels\u201d among his many rivals \u2013 the political and social cream of the crop in the 1840s-50s. This very humble, self-deprecating man, who lacked formal education and experienced so much sorrow early in life, was pitted against tough competition his entire life -- part of his greatn I've always thought Abraham Lincoln was the greatest president in U.S. history, and now, after reading Team of Rivals, I'm convinced of that. His political genius allowed him to harness the talents and tame the \u201clesser angels\u201d among his many rivals \u2013 the political and social cream of the crop in the 1840s-50s. This very humble, self-deprecating man, who lacked formal education and experienced so much sorrow early in life, was pitted against tough competition his entire life -- part of his greatness is that he never succumbed to bitterness or resentment when he lost an election (and there were many more losses than wins). Goodwin\u2019s depiction of the nomination process of 1860 at the Republican convention is nothing short of spellbinding \u2013 who knew that a political process could be so riveting (even when you know the outcome!) For me, the true brilliance of the book is the unremitting theme of slavery woven through every chapter and behind almost every political move that Abe and his rivals made during that period of American history. While it\u2019s true that Lincoln is not the unapologetic abolitionist many think he was, his genius is in knowing how to keep the many factions in his party and in the Union on his side during the crisis of secession and the resulting Civil War. Ultimately, it\u2019s a heartbreaking story, but it makes me appreciate more than ever our 16th President and how he preserved the union and our very frail democracy. It sounds trite to write that \u201che preserved the union,\u201d but in the hands of Doris Kearns Goodwin, the story behind the preservation of our fledgling country is compelling, gripping, and extremely frightening. I love this quote from Leo Tolstoy in the frontispiece of the book -- it doesn't seem like hyperbole after reading this incredible biography: \"The greatness of Napoleon, Caesar or Washington is only moonlight by the sun of Lincoln. His example is universal and will last thousands of years . . . . He is bigger than his country -- bigger than all the Presidents together . . . and as a great character he will live as long as the world lasts.\" ...more ETA: Lincoln's death in 1865 is covered, but not in detail. I will now read \"They Have Killed Papa Dead!\": The Road to Ford's Theatre, Abraham Lincoln's Murder, and the Rage for Vengeance I think the book IS good. But Lincoln was much more of a shrewd politician than an honest, moral individual and a fun loving storyteller. I did come to admire him. With talent he got people of opposing views to work together toward a common goal. This was no small accomplishment. His lack of malice is exceptiona ETA: Lincoln's death in 1865 is covered, but not in detail. I will now read \"They Have Killed Papa Dead!\": The Road to Ford's Theatre, Abraham Lincoln's Murder, and the Rage for Vengeance I think the book IS good. But Lincoln was much more of a shrewd politician than an honest, moral individual and a fun loving storyteller. I did come to admire him. With talent he got people of opposing views to work together toward a common goal. This was no small accomplishment. His lack of malice is exceptional. Or was that too, merely the best way to go on after the war, if he had lived...... Goodwin failed to make the reader feel Lincoln's knack for storytelling and why people call him \"Honest Abe\"! Has history idolized Lincoln? What I think of Lincoln has little to do with how I judge this book. The book is thorough and clearly much effort has been invested in giving us all the facts. I would have appreciated better editing. Not all of the quotes were necessary or relevant. Parts are tedious. In that we learn about Lincoln through what others have said of him, often via direct quotes, much of the book is told rather than experienced. When I looked at his actions I found them contradictory to what was said of him! So very much was said about him. How much is true? I grew so tired of being told of his great stories and quick humor. I didn\u2019t laugh or appreciate those stories. They were preachy; they pointed a finger, they were employed to teach a moral. Lincoln avoided direct confrontation. His inability to dismiss General in Chief George McClellan probably prolonged the war and increased the numbers killed. I do believe that the South would have fared better had he not been assassinated, and I do admire his ability to balance opposing contentions. I learned very, very much from this book! Although the narration by Suzanne Toren was excellent, perhaps it is better to read this book than listen to it. It is complicated; lots of people to keep track of. This is hard with an audiobook! Maybe had I read it, more would stay fastened in my head! ******************************** Yesterday my husband and I listened to a lot of ToR. You know how Audible splits an audiobook into different \"books\"? This one has five. I am at chapter 8 of 12 in the fourth book. This thing is monstrously long. Both Per and I agree that parts are unnecessary. Parts neither illustrate the depth of a character nor tell important history! Chapter 20 has a recording error. You hear a section twice, but the repeated section is only about five minutes long. Maybe it is to keep you on your toes? :0) My biggest problem is that I now see Abe as a shrewd politician, one cleverly balancing opposing sides to attain a given goal. His speeches seem pithy. His honesty does not shine through. I rarely enjoy his storytelling or laugh at his \"funny lines\". I am disappointed. I liked him more before I read the book. OK, I have a much better idea of who he really was, but ....... ********************* Through the Republican convention of 1860: The text is thorough and detailed. You DO clearly come to understand HOW Lincoln succeeded in winning the Republican nomination in 1860. That is where I am. There are many quotes, so you get detailed, accurate and time relevant views. I believe that Lincoln won basically because his views were \"middle-of-the-road\". This was tactically expedient, but he didn't hold these views to achieve personal goals. There is a huge difference between this and an individual that tactically determines his actions in an effort to win. Lincoln's views really were balanced and not extreme! He worked hard, from the bottom up, not delegating tasks to others. He was the kind of person that instinctively knew how to talk with people. It wasn't merely chance that the Convention was held in Chicago. He recognized early on that this would be advantageous and worked to bring it about. He intelligently knew that to win he had to fight as an alternate to those who were stronger. He knew he would not succeed on the first ballot. The nomination proceedings are exciting. All the previous chapters have lead up to this point so the reader thoroughly understands why and how Lincoln came to win the nomination. ************************* We have listened to more than 8 hours of <+++>Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln</+++> . Both my husband and I agree that it is less engaging than. No Ordinary Time: Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt . Keep in mind, much remains. The audiobook is more than 40 hours long. One complaint that I have is that we are told over and over that Lincoln has a sense of humor and loves telling stories. So after about seven hours I say to my husband, \"When are we going to be told some of those stories that everyone was so enchanted with?\" Then, as if someone were listening to me, we were told two short stories. I found then scarcely interesting and the humor was not my kind of humor. So my complaint is that too much is told rather than experienced. If I am going to believe he is a great story-teller give me a good story. If he is humorous, make me laugh. It is clear. I am learning, but it isn't great....not yet. Per summarizes his views with the comment: \"It is very detailed!\" ...more Team of Rivals was a big undertaking for me at over 750 pages. What a treasure of a book. I had the feeling that you get with a good piece of fiction where you hate for the book to end. I felt like I was there, that I knew Lincoln. What a marvelous man, a moral man, a patient man. There were lessons between the covers of this book I would feel comfortable including in a talk in church. I have read other books about Lincoln and other books about the civil war, but to see Lincoln through the eyes Team of Rivals was a big undertaking for me at over 750 pages. What a treasure of a book. I had the feeling that you get with a good piece of fiction where you hate for the book to end. I felt like I was there, that I knew Lincoln. What a marvelous man, a moral man, a patient man. There were lessons between the covers of this book I would feel comfortable including in a talk in church. I have read other books about Lincoln and other books about the civil war, but to see Lincoln through the eyes of his political rivals for the Presidency - Edward Bates, William Henry Seward, and Salmon Chase - was novel and inciteful. These men all had better educations than Lincoln (that wouldn't take much) and were all Lawyers as was Lincoln, each was politically ambitious and had hopes to be elected president by the newly formed Republican party. Each of these men were given cabinet positions by Lincoln. To begin with, each of these men saw themselves as superior to Abraham Lincoln. Lincoln saw the advantage of surrounding himself with the best minds of his day. Unfortunately, that also meant to surround himself with a multitude of opinions (not a yes man in the bunch) and a variety of personal vanities. Added to these men were others such a Secretary of War Edwin Stanton who also had been somewhat of a rival in court and looked down upon Abraham Lincoln. Seward and Lincoln were polar opposites in dispositions and yet came to respect each other and had a warm friendship. Each life, told in detail was fascinating. The politics of the time were a land mine. It would have been enough to ruin the carreer of a lesser politician. Such a sad time in the history of our country. I'm glad God sends great men at such a time as that. A great read! ...more I, like many young people, was often frustrated by history class. No matter what how hard I worked, or how much I studied we always seemed to run out of time to cover the really interesting parts of history, and I always felt short changed. Few time periods frustrated me as much as the Civil War. We would spend weeks going over Manasses, and Shiloh and Sherman's march and I invariably felt that something was missing. Was it really just General v.s. General? What was Lincoln doing that made him so I, like many young people, was often frustrated by history class. No matter what how hard I worked, or how much I studied we always seemed to run out of time to cover the really interesting parts of history, and I always felt short changed. Few time periods frustrated me as much as the Civil War. We would spend weeks going over Manasses, and Shiloh and Sherman's march and I invariably felt that something was missing. Was it really just General v.s. General? What was Lincoln doing that made him so great? And when it all ended with Lee's sudden surrender at Appomatox, and Lincoln's assassination in the next paragraph, I kept looking around for more details. But I could never find any. For anyone like me, anyone who wishes they could have figured out the complexities of the great struggle for America's soul, anyone who seeks advice from the past to inform their lives for today and tomorrow there is Team of Rivals . Kearns Goodwin has created a compelling and comprehensive portrayal of the men who led America through the crucible of the Civil War, she turns the president from the static caricature of \"Honest Abe\" with the stove pipe hat and chinstrap beard into a dynamic and endearing hero. His wit and charm flow from first hand sources and innumerable anecdotes. His devotion to his wife and young sons, his humor, his faith, all of it makes Lincoln so much more accessible. But even more engaging than the accounts of the commander in chief are the equally dynamic supporting characters who populate Lincoln's life and times. From his family and the frantic Mary Todd to the armed services and the craven General McClellan, from the titular Team of Rivals [including the corrupt, the pure, the powerful and the power-hungry] to society celebrities the reader is immersed in another America, at once novel and yet familiar. Any work of this scope, must, by necessity, be long. Very long. [Long enough to preclude me from reading anything else for 5 months] So, while the depth of research is remarkably engaging, it's also remarkable dense. True scholars won't have a problem with it, those of us who seek more knowledge to enhance our understanding, will. Still, any opportunity to encounter and understand a truly great president, a man whose temperament, acumen and eloquence were the perfectly prescribed tonic for a nation in turmoil, is worth an occasionally disconcerting density. It's engrossing, engaging and utterly remarkable, even over five months. ...more Most readers would question the need for another Lincoln Biography at this point. After 200 years and numerous Biographies, is there anything new to learn about the man? In Team of Rivals, Doris Kearns Goodwin answers that question with a resounding yes. Her focus is mainly on Lincoln as political operator. She explores this theme by looking at Lincoln through the eyes of his three greatest political rivals(and later cabinet members) William Seward, Salmon Chase, and Edward Bates. Goodwin begins Most readers would question the need for another Lincoln Biography at this point. After 200 years and numerous Biographies, is there anything new to learn about the man? In Team of Rivals, Doris Kearns Goodwin answers that question with a resounding yes. Her focus is mainly on Lincoln as political operator. She explores this theme by looking at Lincoln through the eyes of his three greatest political rivals(and later cabinet members) William Seward, Salmon Chase, and Edward Bates. Goodwin begins her narrative at the 1860 Republican convention where all 4 were vying for the nomination. Lincoln was thought to be a long shot, but thanks to some adroit maneuvering on the part of his management team, he managed to position himself as every delegation's second choice, and managed to secure the nomination as a compromise candidate. The rest of the book focuses on the way in which Lincoln managed the Civil War, and the way in which various cabinet members influenced policy, and helped shape his evolving view of slavery. Lincoln was also a master at massaging his team's ego's when political in-fighting threatened to break the cabinet apart. He also had an incredible capacity for forgiveness. For example, when Chase crossed him one too many times, he finally accepts his resignation as head of the treasury, only to later appoint him Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. Can you imagine a President giving a major rival a post with a lifetime appointment today?! I was captivated by the portrait of William Seward, sadly he is remembered today only for his purchase of Alaska, much derided at the time as \"Seward's Folly\" I had no idea he was one of the leading political figures of his generation. A complex portrait of Lincoln emerges from Team of Rivals, one that forever shatters the myth that he was a blundering backwoods political neophyte who could be easily influenced. Fair warning: This book requires a significant investment of time but you'll be well rewarded. It took me almost a month reading a chapter a day. It ended up being my #2 book of 2005, and my #4 book of the decade. ...more As usual, I seem to be pushing against the river. All the reviews are stellar -- to the 5th degree. My poor offering is a meagre 3. Goodwin is an exceptional historian. Research should have been her middle name. But -- and it's quite a big one -- The book would have been vastly improved if a good editor had taken charge. This book reads like ... you asked someone for a recipe on how to bake a cake, and she starts by telling you how to grow wheat; then walks you through milling the grain into flour As usual, I seem to be pushing against the river. All the reviews are stellar -- to the 5th degree. My poor offering is a meagre 3. Goodwin is an exceptional historian. Research should have been her middle name. But -- and it's quite a big one -- The book would have been vastly improved if a good editor had taken charge. This book reads like ... you asked someone for a recipe on how to bake a cake, and she starts by telling you how to grow wheat; then walks you through milling the grain into flour, down the line to raising chickens and collecting the eggs. My god, by the time you get to the cake, you've starved yourself and three subsequent generations. A good editor would have sliced at least 200 pages and given more substance to the importance of this team of rivals. The relevance of the momentous symphony created by this team is almost drowned by the irrelevant preamble. All the minutiae that Goodwin gathers on the respective players is interesting, perhaps, but doesn't add to the central argument. The trivialities of childhood toe-stubbings and early disappointments in love of one and all do not belong in such a work. They belong in a biography dedicated solely to that individual: therein, one could expand to heart's content and would in that case be appreciated by the reader. Herein, it made me forget what/who the book was about, almost. After sifting through the mound (sorry, can't seem to get that cake imagery out of my head) of froth and frivolity, the book is excellent and I appreciated learning a few things about Lincoln that made clear his exceptional contribution to the building of the United States of America. I appreciated, perhaps for the first time, the political astuteness of the man, stripped clean of his \"aw shucks\" image that has often been portrayed in other biographies. When Goodwin finally gets down to it, she is immensely capable of delivering good solid writing, with a purpose. ...more If you\u2019ve ever asked yourself, Abraham Lincoln, what is with that guy? This is the book for you. The answer to that question is both simple and complex. It\u2019s complex because all people are complex, and the political landscape that Lincoln navigated\u2013although lacking 24 hour news cycles, talking heads, and loudmouthed pundits\u2013was nevertheless a treacherous and multi-faceted one. Team of Rivals is in large part Doris Kearns Goodwin\u2019s attempt to illustrate just exactly how it was that he navigated th If you\u2019ve ever asked yourself, Abraham Lincoln, what is with that guy? This is the book for you. The answer to that question is both simple and complex. It\u2019s complex because all people are complex, and the political landscape that Lincoln navigated\u2013although lacking 24 hour news cycles, talking heads, and loudmouthed pundits\u2013was nevertheless a treacherous and multi-faceted one. Team of Rivals is in large part Doris Kearns Goodwin\u2019s attempt to illustrate just exactly how it was that he navigated those treacherous waters: gaining the presidency, winning the loyalty of the newly formed Republican party and love of the people despite his lack of education and political clout, bringing the country through the Civil War, passing one of the most influential pieces of legislation in history, and ultimately, ending with his assassination, and the Abraham Lincoln-shaped hole left in the world. I say it is also simple because if DKG is to be believed (and I do believe her), Lincoln accomplished these things the same way he did everything in his life: by being a kindhearted, rational man with a good head for common sense on his shoulders, and a willingness to really listen and understand both his rivals and his allies. Early on in the book, DKG chronicles Lincoln\u2019s tendency towards \u2018melancholy,\u2019 which she concludes was largely brought on by his extreme empathy. He brought a balance to everything he did that is probably most exemplified by his decision to bring his political rivals into his cabinet, and make them his chief advisors, a decision for which he was criticized, even by those same cabinet members. The book is as much about those rivals as it is about Lincoln. William H. Seward, the most heavily favored candidate for president in 1860. Salmon P. Chase, a noted abolitionist, and a man simultaneously riddled with insecurities and absolutely rabid about his desire for the presidency, to the point where he believes himself destined for it, even though he has no talent for judging the climate of a situation. Edward Bates, the elderly statesman, who ran for president and then joined Lincoln\u2019s cabinet despite a fierce desire to remain at home with his family. And Edwin M. Stanton, the famous lawyer, who upon first meeting Lincoln thought him incredibly dull and a hopeless rube. These are the men Lincoln surrounded himself with, and it\u2019s notable that with the exception of Chase, who was a first class egomaniac and a total asshole to the end, all of them came to understand what a remarkable man Lincoln was, and to appreciate his unique abilities. DKG\u2019s writing is remarkably thorough, and by time I finished the book, I felt like I\u2019d been through a master-class of Civil War era politics. Like all good historical writers, she mostly refrains from passing judgment, letting the evidence speak for itself. There were a few parts where I questioned the \u2018Team of Rivals\u2019 concept, but mostly only in regards to Chase. Seriously, you guys, that dude was really smart and he\u2019s basically the reason we have paper money and everything, and he almost single-handedly helped fund the war effort, but . . . ASSHOLE. He never once acknowledged Lincoln\u2019s aptitude for the presidency, believing until the end that HE should have been president, even going so far as to sow disloyalty in the cabinet leading up to the 1864 election (which he again was surprised at not being a top candidate, showing his total inability to understand why people disliked him). Of course, these actions cost him his place in the cabinet, even if he never understood why (he also never understood why his actions were so harmful). I mean, this is a guy who REGULARLY threatened to resign as a negotiation tactic with Lincoln, because he had the emotional maturity of an eight year old. But I will not say any more about Chase other than to emphasize that I really wish DKG would have clarified a little more why exactly he was such an essential piece of the team, because honestly, I think he was more trouble than he was worth. Lincoln, bless his heart, probably would have disagreed with me. He defended Chase\u2019s integrity to the end, even giving him the Chief Justice position over several other less controversial candidates, because he truly believed Chase was the right man for the job, despite the backstabbing and manipulating he very well knew about. Besides the big stuff, Team of Rivals was also chock full of tiny little details that were by turns amusing and disturbing. I will never get over Mary Lincoln and her shopping addiction, or how Lincoln\u2019s secretaries called her \u2018The Hellcat\u2019 (they called Lincoln \u2018The Ancient\u2019). VP Andrew Johnson was totally wasted at the 1965 inauguaration, to the point of forgetting cabinet members\u2019 names during his speech, and pointing to them instead. Almost all of the cabinet members took drastic paycuts to be in the cabinet, to the point where a couple risked financial ruin. And of course, the little tidbits about Lincoln himself. How awkward he was with the ladies, how much he loved to read (he carried a book with him everywhere), how he told stories constantly as a way to communicate . . . so many tidbits. It took me three months to read this book, via audiobook. It was worth it. This is the kind of history I wish I would have read in high school, not that sanitized dumbed-down crap. The kind that takes history out of the realm of story, and gives it flesh and blood. The kind that makes me feel enough to cry for ten minutes while driving, to the point where I had to stop and park to gather my bearings. The kind of history that makes you feel the joy, and the wasted potential. The thing that makes me most sad\u2013besides Lincoln\u2019s death, obviously, is that with that idiot Andrew Johnson running things, the chance of a productive Reconstruction period (full of Lincoln\u2019s trademark common sense and empathy, even for the South) went to almost nothing. How much different things could be even today if Lincoln had been the one to shepherd the reunification of our country, we\u2019ll never know. But I like to think it would have mattered. That one man can be that influential, just by being kind and sympathetic from a place of power. It\u2019s the reason Lincoln is so mythologized. He\u2019s easy to mythologize. Hell, this is my favorite t-shirt, and I wear it with pride: Fittingly, DKG ends her book with this quote, that I feel sums up things nicely. \u201cWashington was a typical American. Napoleon was a typical Frenchman, but Lincoln was a humanitarian as broad as the world. He was bigger than his country \u2013 bigger than all the Presidents together.\u201d It\u2019s a good book, is what I\u2019m saying. [4.5 stars] ...more I've long admired Abraham Lincoln, but this book increased that admiration by leaps and bounds. It's almost ridiculous how politically adept Lincoln was - especially given his childhood, self taught, etc. It made me (the book) long for another president like Lincoln. He picked the men of his cabinet by their merits and by their spheres of influence. He had people from differing parties and people who flat out hated him. He was unswerving when he made up his mind - and 9 times out of 10 he was co I've long admired Abraham Lincoln, but this book increased that admiration by leaps and bounds. It's almost ridiculous how politically adept Lincoln was - especially given his childhood, self taught, etc. It made me (the book) long for another president like Lincoln. He picked the men of his cabinet by their merits and by their spheres of influence. He had people from differing parties and people who flat out hated him. He was unswerving when he made up his mind - and 9 times out of 10 he was correct. He consistently did what was best for the country, gave his whole heart and soul, but was no simpleton as his enemies would have people believe. People who hated him in the beginning often grew to admire and love him. What a genuinely good man, and genius. It was very interesting to read more about his views on slavery and what motivated a lot of his policy. I can't say enough about this book and the man himself... I cried when I finished this book - a lot. ...more Team of Rivals Team of Rivals refers to Abraham Lincoln\u2019s choice of prior adversaries as his presidential cabinet. The first was the most famous Republican candidate for the 1860 presidential race. This was William Seward, the Governor of New York. Seward was a very bright, good story teller and ardently opposed to slavery. He was, in all likelihood, too liberal to get the Republican nomination. The Republican Party was made up of former Whig party, Know-Nothing party and anti-slavery democrats. Team of Rivals Team of Rivals refers to Abraham Lincoln\u2019s choice of prior adversaries as his presidential cabinet. The first was the most famous Republican candidate for the 1860 presidential race. This was William Seward, the Governor of New York. Seward was a very bright, good story teller and ardently opposed to slavery. He was, in all likelihood, too liberal to get the Republican nomination. The Republican Party was made up of former Whig party, Know-Nothing party and anti-slavery democrats. The know nothings were against immigration. This hurt Seward because he was very pro-immigration. The second rival is former Ohio Senator and Governor Salmon P. Chase. He made a lot of enemies in Ohio with a shady political deal to obtain a Senate seat. The third was Edward Bates. Bates was a Missouri Judge. One of the reasons that Lincoln defeated these three is because he was a relatively unknown former congressman and lawyer. Lincoln was however a very hard working, great debater, great speech giver and writer as well as a magnificent story teller. He also had a hard dedicated team which worked tirelessly to ensure Lincoln\u2019s victory. They were so dedicated because Lincoln was such a nice fellow as well as great story teller. When Lincoln won the nomination the South began secession talks and quickly seceded. One of Lincoln\u2019s most important decisions was to pick all of his former rivals for top cabinet positions. Seward was picked for Secretary of State, Chase for Treasury and Bates for Attorney General. He did this with full knowledge that each rival considered himself more qualified than him to be president. He also knew that there would be internal strife amongst such big personalities. When confederate forces struck Fort Sumter the Civil War began. This is where Lincoln made his only major mistake. The mistake was picking George McClellan to head the Union Army and his delay in replacing him. McClellan\u2019s delays in engaging confederate forces are well documented and may very well have prevented a quick Union victory. Lincoln\u2019s wife Mary is discussed a lot in this book as is Treasury Secretary Chase\u2019s daughter Kate. Mary was a very driven woman who loved the big fancy balls that she would host. She enjoyed flirting with men and Abe never minded. However after the death of their son she fell into deep depression. When she finally pulled herself out she devoted herself to secretly caring for wounded soldiers in the hospital. Kate Chase was known as the prettiest lady in Washington and she hosted elaborate balls on behalf of her father. She married the wealthy William Sprague, owner of A.& W. Sprague Manufacturing Company. Although they seemed like the all American couple she had a miserable married life which ended in divorce. Kate\u2019s father however actively pursued the Republican nomination for the presidency in 1864 while being the acting Treasury Secretary. He did a stellar job financing the war and Lincoln appreciated that. So after confronting him without malice he offered him the recent Supreme Court justice position vacated by Judge Roger Taney. Lincoln was often criticized by the anti-slavery radicals as being overly cautious but history tells us that Lincoln seemed to understand the mood of the country and make decisions based on that. For example, the Emancipation Proclamation was not enacted until he felt that it would be acceptable in the Border States. When the war ended everything looked rosy in a way. We had a great President who planned a lenient approach to Southern reintegration while guaranteeing colored equality. That was stymied when John Wilkes Booth pulled the trigger in Ford\u2019s Theater and killed the 16th President. ...more An elegantly crafted epic that is as gripping of a read as a novel: history can be eminently entertaining. I heard Goodwin interviewed on Radio West and she describes researching this book for 10 years. She utilizes a richness of primary sources to give the reader the opportunity to know well not just Lincoln but the many who surrounded him. I dreaded reaching the last pages of this book--there was only one way for it to end. The death of Lincoln, although foreshadowed, comes as abruptly in this An elegantly crafted epic that is as gripping of a read as a novel: history can be eminently entertaining. I heard Goodwin interviewed on Radio West and she describes researching this book for 10 years. She utilizes a richness of primary sources to give the reader the opportunity to know well not just Lincoln but the many who surrounded him. I dreaded reaching the last pages of this book--there was only one way for it to end. The death of Lincoln, although foreshadowed, comes as abruptly in this account as I am sure it did for those there. And, having become intimately acquainted with those close to Lincoln, the evoked emotion is not only at the death of great leader just when the country most relied on his magnanimity to repair and reconstruct a war-torn land, but for those whose grief was inconsolable at that time. ...more I suspect I am now in love with Lincoln. The book convincingly places him in the context of his peers and rivals for the 1860 Republican presidential nomination, then shows how he cannily and selflessly coaxed masterful performances out of each of these men as cabinet members during the civil war. Once Goodwin gets to Lincoln's presidency, the book becomes more disciplined, treating major battles and even Booth's assassination conspiracy as peripheral. Rather, she focuses on Lincoln's steadfast I suspect I am now in love with Lincoln. The book convincingly places him in the context of his peers and rivals for the 1860 Republican presidential nomination, then shows how he cannily and selflessly coaxed masterful performances out of each of these men as cabinet members during the civil war. Once Goodwin gets to Lincoln's presidency, the book becomes more disciplined, treating major battles and even Booth's assassination conspiracy as peripheral. Rather, she focuses on Lincoln's steadfast leadership, his evolving positions on emancipation and reconstruction, and his singular combination of humor, empathy, melancholy, self-confidence and humbleness that sustained him during the war. After reading the book, it is hard to conceive that such a great and good man ever lived, much less was elected to the presidency. ...more This is the first time in a long time that I'm really sad the book came to and end. I feel as if I've lost a friend, and a wise one at that. Doris Goodwin does such a good job of placing you in Lincoln's cabinet meetings, learning his thoughts and words as recorded from them in personal diaries, by the end you feel as if you've known them all personally. It was also interesting to learn about what the mood was in the country at that time. Lincoln was a master at judging the appropriate time to pr This is the first time in a long time that I'm really sad the book came to and end. I feel as if I've lost a friend, and a wise one at that. Doris Goodwin does such a good job of placing you in Lincoln's cabinet meetings, learning his thoughts and words as recorded from them in personal diaries, by the end you feel as if you've known them all personally. It was also interesting to learn about what the mood was in the country at that time. Lincoln was a master at judging the appropriate time to present items to his cabinet, congress and the public. He held off on items he wanted desperately to push through but knew they wouldn't be accepted before the masses were ready for them. (i.e., the Proclamation of Emancipation, the 11th amendment abolishing slavery) What an incredibly wise man. He was also a man with deep moral convictions and a kind, tender heart. It pained him to have to have deserter's of the army executed and if it were at all possible, he would pardon them--much to the chagrin of the Secretary of War. From the very moment he stepped into the White House he was besieged with problems of enormous importance that would require a measured response and a firm belief in the union. Lincoln was just the man for the job. In fact, I think he was destined for that job. I seriously doubt any other could have handled the various factions that warred within his own cabinet--a cabinet of rivals, by his choosing. He didn't want men around him that would be yes men or demur to his rulings. He wanted men who would stand up to him if need be to express their point of few and to rally for the people they represented. Each man he chose was the best for his job in more ways than just skill. Together they represented the emotions and thoughts of the entire country. They fought amongst themselves, sometimes bitterly. Lincoln was able to step back, listen to all of their viewpoints and take them into account when reaching his own decision on what was best for the country. He held no grudges and was never vindictive. In the end all of them came to love him, some more reluctantly. To know that he could change the opinions of men who were certain he was just an unschooled farm boy of limited intelligence and no political savvy was nothing short of miraculous in my opinion. They all came to recognize his intelligence, wisdom and ability to see beyond the moment. What a great loss they must have all felt when he was assassinated. The country was left in despair. One of my favorite parts of the book was when Lee surrendered and Lincoln said: Thank God I was able to live to see this day. My purpose has been fulfilled. (Not verbatim) In less than two weeks, he would be assassinated. I will have to read the biography of Andrew Johnson now, to see how the country fared after such a loss. I know that \"it all worked out\" but I'd like to know how the people of the United States could gather up such courage after losing the one man who had managed to steer them faithfully through a horrid, long war and give them hope for the future. On the Mystical side, I couldn't help but feeling that there was a higher power involved in his election and throughout his governing of this great country. So many things had to happen at just the right moment in order for him to have been elected, re-elected as well as lead this country in a way no other could have done. He wanted Reconstruction in the south to be fair. He had no desire to punish them or hang those who led the confederate armies, much different than what many others in Congress thought should be done to the South. He viewed the North and the South as one and wanted the South to be welcomed back into the fold, like a long lost child. For him, it was never about retribution. He simply wanted the country to become whole and heal itself. A remarkable man that deserves all the praise given to him. The love and intricate work that went into this book by Dorris Goodwin is evident throughout. She is a gifted historian who brings history to life and makes you wish you could have been there to see it all. ...more This was one of the most extraordinary books I have read in a very long time. The book is 757 pages long. Superbly edited -- not one word is wasted. It is so beautifully written that it reads like a novel. I learned so much about Lincoln, his cabinet and the political world of the time. These are just a few things -- very few -- that was a revelation to me. 1) Women played a major role in their husbands,fathers, brothers political lives. Some even worked as the manager of their male partners cam This was one of the most extraordinary books I have read in a very long time. The book is 757 pages long. Superbly edited -- not one word is wasted. It is so beautifully written that it reads like a novel. I learned so much about Lincoln, his cabinet and the political world of the time. These are just a few things -- very few -- that was a revelation to me. 1) Women played a major role in their husbands,fathers, brothers political lives. Some even worked as the manager of their male partners campaigns. An educated woman's opinion and influence was a powerful force in the mid 1800's. Seward's wife, for example, constantly goaded him about his policies toward slavery. Seward accepted both her advice and her help in winning elections and in developing policies. 2) Lincoln was a brilliant political strategist. Page 236, Kearns writes: \"WIth the Republican National Convention set to begin the following week, Lincoln could rest easy in the knowledge that he had used his time well. Though he often claimed to be a fatalist, declaring that \"what is to be will be, and no prayers of ours can reverse the decree,\" his diligence and shrewd strategy in the months prior to the convention belied his claim. More than all of his opponents combined, the country lawyer and local politician had toiled skillfully to increase his chances to become the Republican nominee for President.\" 3) There were \"battleground\" states in 1860 -- Illinois, Indiana, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. As Kearns wrote (page 239) \"These battleground states lay along the southern tier of the North; they all bordered on slave states; they would play a decisive role in choosing a nominee.\" Those battleground states were also important in wining the Presidential election. (Sounds a little like our own day, doesn't it?) 4) Lincoln was accused of being tardy, hesitating and vacillating policy of the President of the United States. Lincoln responded by saying that he might move with frustrating deliberation on large issues, but he did not vacillate. \"I think it cannot be shown that when I have once taken a position, I have never retreated from it.\" That reminded me of President Obama. In fact a number of things that Lincoln did, from how he influenced his base to what we would now call \"grassroots community organizing\" is very similar to what President Obama has done and is doing to get the voters on his side in order to make and change policy. 5) Seward helped Lincoln write his first Inaugural address. Lincoln revised it by adding his poetic touch. For example, Seward wrote: \"The mystic chords which proceeding from so many battle fields and so many patriot graves pass through all the hearts and all the hearths in this broad continent of ours will yet again harmonize in their ancient music when breathed upon by the guardian angel of the nation\" Lincoln turned Seward's prose into poetry. Lincoln wrote: \"I am loth to close. We are not enemies, but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion may have strained, it must not break out bonds of affection. The mystic chords of memory, stretching from every battle-field, and patriot grave, to every living heart and hearthstone, all over this broad land, will yet swell the chorus of the Union, when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature.\" (Page 326). 6) Stephen Douglas had a very long public debate with William Seward. Seward interrupted to ask for an explanation of something Douglas had said. Douglas responded: \"Ah, you can't crawl behind that free nigger dodge.\" In reply Seward said\" Douglas, no man will ever be the President of the United States who spells negro with two gs.\" Brilliant book. I am so glad I read it. Doris Kearns Goodwin is wonderful scholar and historian. \"The <+++>Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln</+++>\" is well worth the time it takes to read over 700 pages of text. ...more Don't get me wrong. This is a good book, but it's not as good as I thought it would be or had heard it would be. I expected more from Doris Kearns Goodwin. It didn't go into the political genius as much as I wanted. It details the four men in Lincoln's cabinet that play a major role. It's more about them and their interactions than it is about Lincoln's political moves. There is a lot of interesting descriptions of the generals, but I got tired of the McClennan drama being detailed. I definitely Don't get me wrong. This is a good book, but it's not as good as I thought it would be or had heard it would be. I expected more from Doris Kearns Goodwin. It didn't go into the political genius as much as I wanted. It details the four men in Lincoln's cabinet that play a major role. It's more about them and their interactions than it is about Lincoln's political moves. There is a lot of interesting descriptions of the generals, but I got tired of the McClennan drama being detailed. I definitely didn't enjoy the pleasure that Ms. Goodwin got from detailing Kate Chase's every move. I just wish this book had been a little shorter and concise about events. It needed in my opinion to be more about Lincoln's political thoughts and why he did what he did. However, I did enjoy the background of Seward, Chase, Stanton and Cameron. I would only recommend this book to amateur historians and not the general public who are picking it up because President Obama mentioned it. ...more I thoroughly enjoyed Team of Rivals. It took me a little longer than usual to get into the book, and as a result I almost want to go back and read the first half again as I think I would pick up much more a second time through. Abraham Lincoln had always seemed to me, an outsider flattening my nose against the fishbowl of American history, generally a big deal. In his story's oversimplified version, he kept his country together, freed slaves, and was all but deified upon his assassination. The man was, even if everyone else at the time didn't know it, \" still too near to his greatness \" as they were, \" [h]is genius... still too strong and too powerful for the common understanding, just as the sun is too hot when its light Abraham Lincoln had always seemed to me, an outsider flattening my nose against the fishbowl of American history, generally a big deal. In his story's oversimplified version, he kept his country together, freed slaves, and was all but deified upon his assassination. The man was, even if everyone else at the time didn't know it, \" still too near to his greatness \" as they were, \" [h]is genius... still too strong and too powerful for the common understanding, just as the sun is too hot when its light beams directly on us, \" as Leo Tolstoy put it, a veritable badass. Pitting him against vampires was redundant. The broad strokes of his life were already very well-known to me, burned into the public consciousness as they have been by more books, biopics, and occasional pop-culture references combined than any one person save Doris Kearns Goodwin with her superpowers of research and organization can know what to do with. Most people are usually content enough not to investigate any further. Team of Rivals, however, had been recommended so frequently in so many different circles, selected so often by various algorithms as my next to-read based on my reading history, and nibbling so determinedly at my subconscious that I had finally to take the leap, bump the book up the priority list, and give my curiosity the chew toy it had been growling at me for. What caution there initially was quickly went out the window after not even ten pages. The rabbit hole I fell headfirst into with this book was one I regretted to find someone had lacked the foresight to dump a million more rabbits into and dig more of, the better to stave off the inevitability I dreaded was hurtling towards Lincoln. The obligatory appreciation, approaching almost offensive indifference, that colored my early perceptions of him had by the final pages exploded into the sort of enthusiasm and love people reserve in their hearts for boy bands, superhero movies, or football. The word \"politician,\" as soon as it's verbalized into the air to there hang unpleasantly like some gas passed inside an elevator, has taken on negative connotations. Anyone who works in the profession and has the slightest self-awareness would think twice before volunteering such information to a forgetful aunt they never see except sometimes at family functions. If it were more a rule than the rarest exception that politicians actually strive to be like Lincoln in intention as well as action, pitchforks and torches would've been used for their original purpose. It's tempting to think he had it easier because times then were simpler, but that way lies confusion: if keeping countless plates spinning without any of them wobbling and falling, all in the hope of stopping his country from crashing and burning, is considered having it easy, what might the whole situation look like on insanity mode? What most of all set Lincoln apart from his contemporaries, as Goodwin began hammering home with her choice of book title, was his pragmatism. He had the crazy idea to form his Cabinet not like his predecessors had done by surrounding themselves with agreeable faces and building an echo chamber, but by plucking men from the opposition who fought against him for the Republican nomination and others from different factions who had no reason or inclination to treat Lincoln, then relatively inexperienced in the political arena, with kid gloves. At the time, the country was little better than a house of cards. Choosing from all the prominent parts of his party instead of his own and making certain they each had a voice in the government gave that house solid ground. Because he \" had no right to deprive the country of their services, \" Lincoln had only thoughts of what was best for the people in mind when he sought help from \" the strongest men of the party \" who would make up the Cabinet and restore calm and sanity to a party that seemed then about to implode and inadvertently usher in a slaveopia. Not only was he open-minded enough to give opposing viewpoints their due consideration, but he had confidence enough that none of them if unsound would sway his own, which his surprised Cabinet soon came to find out and grudgingly respect. Lincoln alone is interesting enough to read about. Goodwin, still the fantastic writer in this alternative scenario, would enjoy no less success were she to have focused solely on his life and not biographized three other men's as well. No greater decision could she have made, however, than that she ended up doing otherwise. To appreciate Lincoln's political achievements, many requiring no less than Herculean efforts to secure, it is helpful to understand what obstacles he went up against and overcame. Charismatic and loyal William Henry Seward, brooding and shady Salmon Chase, and old and traditional Edward Bates, Lincoln's three biggest hurdles on his road to the presidency, wanted it no less. Split into two parts, Team of Rivals dedicates much of the first to the lives of these four men facing each other down for their name to be on the Republican presidential ticket, and while Lincoln naturally remains the central figure of the book, Goodwin touches with equal attention on Seward's popularity and evolving political strategy, Chase's lack thereof and blind ambitions, and Bates' family life and more conservative tendencies. Emerging at the end of their sections, some with prospects more optimistic than the last, I wondered how Lincoln hoped to beat any of them. It was their race to lose. By doing the exact opposite of what his opponents did and not giving in to complacency in Seward's case, harboring silly delusions of grandeur in Chase's, and offending important voting blocs in Bates', Lincoln seemed like he was in the right place at the right time when delegates started directing their votes his way, which while true to some extent implies his victory was just luck's doing. Again and again, Goodwin shows how freakishly attuned Lincoln was to events then happening and even those yet to happen. Never one to sit idly by and wait for good things to come magically unprompted, even if he may have at times seemed to some inexplicably unbothered and maddeningly slow to react to unexpected developments, he possessed the sixth sense to know when to proceed with his designs and when not to. After winning Seward, Chase, and Bates over to his side with proxies and flattering letters, and with his Democrat counterpart Stephen Douglas busy defending his moderate platform against radicals in his party, winning the presidency was for Lincoln almost as easy as one-two-three. Then came the decidedly trickier bit of being president. Incompetent military generals, Southern aggression, marital headaches, Cabinet tensions, international scrutiny, and the slavery question may just be possible to resolve if the problems arose very considerately one after another. It was Lincoln's unlucky situation that they didn't, forcing him to attend to all of them simultaneously. We have a habit of bringing up before-and-after visual comparisons of presidents and marveling at the physical changes for the worse that they underwent during their terms. Graying hair, sunken eyes, and pronounced wrinkle lines are par for the course. Given Lincoln's challenges, it's more surprising to me not that he aged a hundred years in four, but that he didn't keel over and die straightaway of ulcers the first week into his term. A lesser man would be forgivably overcome with homicidal thoughts after dealing with General George McClellan's breathtaking disrespect and cowardice (the war would've been shorter and many needless casualties avoided had he nutted up and overpowered the other side with the Union Army's superior numbers), Mary Todd's financial woes and mood swings, and Chase's unsubtle machinations and lust for the presidential seat. It's to Lincoln's credit those thoughts never seemed to have occurred to him. Looming over the entire book, the slavery dilemma influenced most decisions everyone made. Even when the conservatives succeeded for a time in convincing people not to push the issue further, it was never completely gone during their musings. The romantic notion that Lincoln one day materialized with an audible pop out of thin air, anti-slavery views already fully rationalized and a desire burning in his guts to ride into battle to there eradicate that evil for now and ever, is a popular misconception I used to entertain half-seriously. In reality, there were less cinematics and more mental gymnastics Lincoln had to perform to justify abolishing slavery within the restrictions set by the Constitution. That it needed justifying at all is, to our modern thinking, not a little remarkable, yet makes an uncomfortable amount of sense. \" Northern objections to slavery were based on ideology and sentiment, rather than on the Southern concerns with property, social intercourse, habit, safety, and life itself. The North had nothing tangible to lose. \" Compromise was the word of the day. Uneasy with slavery to begin with, Lincoln nevertheless trusted in the natural course of things to destroy it if all agreed to contain it to where it already took root instead of spreading it to new lands. That didn't take. Even with the South rebelling in earnest, Lincoln's hands were tied with appeasing the border states, conservatives, and peace Democrats, without the support of whom his presidency would've been short-lived. Outright outlawing the practice was off the table. It fell to Lincoln's political know-how and knack for logical lawyering to navigate the twists and turns of the law well enough to spot a hole through which to wedge in the Emancipation Proclamation, paving the way for the Thirteenth Amendment and \" settl[ing] the fate, for all coming time, not only of the millions now in bondage, but of unborn millions to come. \" With maps, photos, and references so many their notes take up 120 pages of the book (lulling me again like Adam Hochschild did with King Leopold's Ghost into being excited for more content left ahead), inserted into the main narrative with such surgical certainty I felt snug in Goodwin's more than capable hands, you fast come to see and be permanently agawk at how together she's got her stuff. After counting on one hand the number of times Team of Rivals ever bored me, all five of my fingers would still be accounted for to give you a full-handed slap for raising so absurd a question. Here is a major undertaking not many would dare attempt, let alone accomplish, yet Goodwin has done exactly that, and done so well she makes it look like a breezy walk in the park. Her writing style is straightforward and unobtrusive, giving the characters center stage; her analyses sensible and convincing, deepening your understanding of what before seemed incomprehensible; and her sources exhaustive and well-cited, leaving us in no doubt she made none of this up. If any fault can be found with Goodwin, it may be that she can seem to have come down too hard with the Lincoln fever, already obvious with the book's subtitle, but that criticism loses steam when Goodwin doesn't hold back from showing the man at his most embarrassing (he, assuming they didn't also view his country as theirs, once advocated coaxing the slaves out of it and form a colony elsewhere). Excepting history teachers and trivia nerds, we have an awful memory. Game-changers are remembered at the expense of minutiae. Historical figures become less corporeal in the public mind the further from the present they get, their more insignificant characteristics buried under the sand of time, out of which only their greater victories stick like so many tips of pyramids. They sport that sheen of legend. Their actions, given context, make them seem suddenly not all that amazing anymore. Hearing the truth about Santa Claus would probably be less disappointing news. Lincoln, immortalized by a towering statue opposite from the Washington Monument, is both figuratively and literally larger than life. Yet Team of Rivals has shown how Lincoln's status in the history books can only be added to, not detracted from, even when it tackles the bad as well as the good. By gathering up multiple viewpoints ranging from journalists and assistants to soldiers and housewives, and by seamlessly stringing together such a wide variety of voices to create what in others' hands would've resulted in incoherent splatter art and in hers has gifted us a master's painting, Goodwin has done maybe not the impossible, but certainly the dastardly difficult, and elevated Lincoln to such a plane I have serious doubts any leader-to-be now or in the future can ever reach. His will be giant shoes to fill. ...more \"This war is eating my life out. I have a strong impression that I shall not live to see the end.\" (Abe Lincoln) My word...what would have happened to the United States of America if Abraham Lincoln hadn't been elected at the right moment in time? Stunning. As an average reader, my knowledge of Lincoln was standard, that is, he was the Great One who saved the Americans from their own absurdity. But this book took me on a whole new journey, showing an embattled President who had to deal not only w \"This war is eating my life out. I have a strong impression that I shall not live to see the end.\" (Abe Lincoln) My word...what would have happened to the United States of America if Abraham Lincoln hadn't been elected at the right moment in time? Stunning. As an average reader, my knowledge of Lincoln was standard, that is, he was the Great One who saved the Americans from their own absurdity. But this book took me on a whole new journey, showing an embattled President who had to deal not only with a divided country, but with a divided cabinet. And what a cabinet! Salmon P. Chase - Treasury Chase very much wanted to be the President himself. He was a strong member to have on a team but watcheth thy backeth. Lacked any wit and couldn't even win his own state. William H. Seward - Secretary of State He wanted to be the President, also. But he had a clearer understanding of Lincoln's greatness, grew close to the tall dude, and became a loyal friend. He barely survived the assassination attempt on his own life. Edward Bates - Attorney General Democrat leaner...Southern sentiments. Isolated himself from most, but a strong family man. The other cabinet members, such as Stanton and Welles, did not think much of Lincoln at first. But as the President grew into his greatness, they became much valued teamplayers. And then there was the arrogant Union general, McClellan (hiss, boo), who thought he was the bee's knees. A terrific administrator, he was unable to initiate a battle and bad-mouthed Lincoln at every opportunity. This is a wonderful read. So much information in every area. Bio details on Lincoln and each cabinet member. Information on the pre-Civil War elections. Mary Lincoln's crazed emotions as her sons died. The fine line Lincoln had to walk between the progressive abolitionists and the butt-hurt Democrats. It's all here. Just marvelous. Most of all, I would recommend this book for any corporate leader. Lincoln didn't hire yes-men, he hired the best minds he could find even though the members of the team fought and connived. Lincoln did what was best for the country and his amazing patience and ability to forgive meant he was able to lead a high-performance ensemble. This could very well be the best business book one can read to learn how to be a true leader . The writing is superb, the transitions are smooth, and the details utterly amaze. For anyone wanting to add this to their to-read lists, I suggest either getting the hardcover or getting an e-read. This is because I made the mistake of buying the softbound copy and the cover is so thin and flimsy, I tore it apart fairly quickly. A mere quibble. Greatness. Thank you, Mr. Lincoln. Wow. Book Season = Year Round (mystic chords of memory) ...more I loved this book. Although it was a beast of a book, and could probably have been a lot shorter. I had not read a Lincoln biography before, so was firstly blown away by how he rose up from nothing, self-taught himself a college degree, and then somehow rode the middle line and got himself elected President. Nobody seemed to have expected that, nor expected much from him, and he continued to surprise them all. I am always curious about the motivations of successful people. In Lincolns case, he ju I loved this book. Although it was a beast of a book, and could probably have been a lot shorter. I had not read a Lincoln biography before, so was firstly blown away by how he rose up from nothing, self-taught himself a college degree, and then somehow rode the middle line and got himself elected President. Nobody seemed to have expected that, nor expected much from him, and he continued to surprise them all. I am always curious about the motivations of successful people. In Lincolns case, he just literally seemed to want to have the respect of his peers, and of the American people. \u201cEvery man is said to have his peculiar ambition,\u201d he wrote. \u201cI have no other so great as that of being truly esteemed of my fellow men, by rendering myself worthy of their esteem.\u201d Lincoln's tactic to make his enemies his cabinet was also interesting and ultimately brilliant. Especially because he was so unknown, but also because they were the strongest options, and would be hard for him to manage. The confidence he had was impressive. Lincoln constantly showed this higher level of trust in people that many wouldn't have given because it didn't make themselves look good. Hiring people who are smarter than you, and giving them credit when things go right, is very hard to do. But Lincoln could afford to trust his people and even hire people like Chase, who was on his staff yet coveted his job, because he was a masterful tactician. He seemed to have a knack for how to position things to the public at the right times to achieve the right outcomes. The main example of this is of course holding back the proclamation of emancipation so the border states didn't slip into the war on the side of south - but there were many more examples. One thing that surprised me was how lax access to the white house and president were back then. You could literally just walk into the White House and get in line to see the President. And he seemed to only have one security guard - who happened to be \"off-duty\" the night he was killed. I think Lincolns main strength was his empathy. He spent a lot of time trying to understand the people of different states, and putting himself in their shoes and imagining how they felt given what they knew about the situation. A tough, tough thing to do as his whole presidency was during a civil war during which over 600,000 soldiers died. I can't imagine having that on your conscience and trying to internalize that. But a very valuable skill to have as a leader. \"Lincoln had internalized the pain of those around him\u2014the wounded soldiers, the captured prisoners, the defeated Southerners. Little wonder that he was overwhelmed at times by a profound sadness that even his own resilient temperament could not dispel.\" ...more Just finished this wonderful journey a few minutes ago... bittersweet, on one hand, proud of finishing it so quickly (for me) and on the other, it feels as if i've departed from some dear friends. This book was simply wonderful, miss goodwin did an excellent/amazing job of writing about the journey of lincoln and his 'mixture of chaos' cabinet... each of these men had their own distintive voice/personality, Lincoln rallied them all together as only he could. You got a brief but intimate glimpse i Just finished this wonderful journey a few minutes ago... bittersweet, on one hand, proud of finishing it so quickly (for me) and on the other, it feels as if i've departed from some dear friends. This book was simply wonderful, miss goodwin did an excellent/amazing job of writing about the journey of lincoln and his 'mixture of chaos' cabinet... each of these men had their own distintive voice/personality, Lincoln rallied them all together as only he could. You got a brief but intimate glimpse into the lives of each person... it felt as though you were there with them through their tragedies, strife, happiness, I held my breath during the early days of the Administration when everyone was \"learning\" how to navigate through the War.... I was literally swept back in time to Washington :) Also like that we got a better glimpse into Mary Lincoln, all I had known about her previously was that she had some mental problems, i was touched at the way she cared for the Union soldiers and didn't flaunt what she did... despite her faults, she tried her best to a good person (felt for her having migraines as well)... can't imagine the pain of losing one child, let alone two as she did. You can she and abe loved/cared for each other very much. Even though I knew what was going to happen, i was still on the edges of my seat.. racing through the pages, I wanted to reach through the pages to warn Abraham not oto go to Fords :( Tears were welling up in my eyes when the grief of Lincoln's circle and the nation were described. The 'epilogue' at the end was a nice touch, briefly outlining what happened to everyone afterwards. They were the best men of their time, come together at just the right moments to win back the nation... they were truly fit to the times they born into. If I could travel back in time, these men would the first I would want to meet (though Chase and me would not get along haha). The size of the book made me blink and I was a little afraid the book would be dull/dry in the writing but Doris Kearns Goodwin's \"narrative abilities\" (to quote another reviewer) are lyrical;/flowing/passionate, you can tell she loves what she writes about and that really helps the reader. Lincoln was a complex, amazing ordinary man... a true inspiration... you don't have to agree with his politics to know was a great man, who never gave up and cared deeply about his country and her people. a truly compelling read... definitely worth your time... don't be put off by the size of the book (754 pages' before author's notes), its become near and dear to my heart, can't recommend it high enough :) Definitely worth your hard-earned time... will definitely be looking up other members of the Cabinet as well :). Review edited on 2/21/13 (stupid computer problems), ignore typos please haha ...more", "Title": "Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln"},
