{"Comments": "<+++>The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America</+++>This book is two, two,<---M> two books in one ! Sorry</---M>, that was annoying. But it\u2019s almost as if <---A>Erik Larson</---A> wrote two really short books\u2014one about the 1893 World\u2019s Columbian Exposition and another about the murder spree of Dr. H. H. Holmes\u2014and then shoved them together to create a single story. The result isn\u2019t bad , and I think Larson is successful at maintaining clean seams between the two narratives, but it\u2019s hard to argue these two occurrences are anything but abstractedly related. Yes, Holmes lived This book is two, two, two books in one ! Sorry, that was annoying. But it\u2019s almost as if Erik Larson wrote two really short books\u2014one about the 1893 World\u2019s Columbian Exposition and another about the murder spree of Dr. H. H. Holmes\u2014and then shoved them together to create a single story. The result isn\u2019t bad , and I think Larson is successful at maintaining clean seams between the two narratives, but it\u2019s hard to argue these two occurrences are anything but abstractedly related. Yes, Holmes lived in Chicago at the time of the fair and lured a bunch of people to his murder castle (<---B>he be snatchin\u2019 yo\u2019 people up !</---B>), but the events didn\u2019t weigh heavily on the fair itself or on the atmosphere surrounding it. No alarm bells went off anywhere in Chicago as a result of his, um, unsavory indiscretions. Still, there is a lot of interesting stuff here, information specific to the world\u2019s fair, and it is fun to learn new things. For example, the Chicago Columbian Exposition exudes a long list of firsts: it saw the invention of the world\u2019s first ferris wheel, it led the nation in its first public observance of the Pledge of Allegiance, and it helped to establish alternating current as the industry standard for electricity distribution. Even that awful snake charmer song has its origins in the Chicago World\u2019s Fair. While writing this review, I\u2019ve come to learn that Leonardo DiCaprio, that beautiful man with the screaming cherry tomato head on a toothpick body, is producing the film adaptation, and will also play the role of serial killer H. H.<---F> Holmes</---F>. For this I am pleased. ...more Poor Erik Larson. He wanted to write an extensive, in-depth look at the 1893 World's Fair, which was a collaboration of some of the greatest creative minds in the country (including the guy who designed the Flatiron building in New York and Walt Disney's dad) and gave us, among other things, the Ferris Wheel, the zipper, shredded wheat, and Columbus Day. The entire venture was almost a disaster, with delays, petty fighting, bad weather, and more delays, but it was ultimately a massive success and Poor Erik Larson. He wanted to write an extensive, in-depth look at the 1893 World's Fair, which was a collaboration of some of the greatest creative minds in the country (including the guy who designed the Flatiron building in New York and Walt Disney's dad) and gave us, among other things, the Ferris Wheel, the zipper, shredded wheat, and Columbus Day. The entire venture was almost a disaster, with delays, petty fighting, bad weather, and more delays, but it was ultimately a massive success and helped make the city of Chicago what it is today. Here's what it must have looked like when Larson pitched his idea for the book: Larson: \"And the fair didn't go flawlessly - towards the end of the fair, the mayor of Chicago was assassinated by a crazy guy, and there were tons of disappearances over the course of the fair, and a lot of them were probably the work of this serial killer who had opened a hotel near the fairgrounds - Editor: \"Wait, serial killer? And it's connected to the fair? Cool, let's try to include that in the book. Also the crazy assassin sounds good, too.\" Larson: \"No, the killer - H.H. Holmes - really wasn't connected to the fair at all. I mean, he used the fair as a way to collect victims, but he would have killed tons of people even without it. In fact, after the fair he moved on and kept murdering people, so the fair really didn't have any effect on his methods...\" Editor: \"Doesn't matter! How about you alternate between chapters about the fair and chapters about Holmes killing people?\" Larson: \"But I don't really know much about that. Nobody does - Holmes never admitted to killing all those people, even after the police found human remains in his basement. I don't really know any actual details about the killings.\" Editor: \"That's okay, you can just make it up. I'll give you some trashy crime novels to read, that'll give you some ideas. Now tell me more about the assassination.\" Larson: \"He was just some mentally unbalanced person who thought he deserved a position in the mayor's office and shot the guy when he realized it wasn't going to happen. But the death cast a pall over the entire closing ceremony of the fair, and it - \" Editor: \"Good, let's sprinkle in some bits about the crazy guy throughout the book, too. Now, back to Holmes: did he maybe kill somebody at the fair, or did they find a body on the grounds or something?\" Larson: \"No, the Chicago police didn't even notice anything was happening. It wasn't until he left Chicago that a detective from another state tracked him down.\" Editor: \"Okay, so we'll make the end of the book about the manhunt for Holmes and his capture.\" Larson: \"What does any of this have to do with the World's Fair?\" Editor: \"Hell if I know. You're the writer, not me - you figure it out. Here's a check. Now go make me a bestseller!\" Four stars for the World's Fair stuff, two stars for the pulpy unrelated bullshit. ...more Humour me and please allow the channeling an eighth grader for just a moment. OMG Squeee!!1 Teh best!! (Would an eighth grader say \"teh best\"?) And now we return you to our regularly scheduled review. I'm not a huge fan of non-fiction. Scratch that. I'm a huge fan of non-fiction, but not so huge a fan of reading non-fiction. While I appreciate learning and broadening my understanding of the world around and as it once was, I find myself pretty quickly distracted from whatever non-fictional work I Humour me and please allow the channeling an eighth grader for just a moment. OMG Squeee!!1 Teh best!! (Would an eighth grader say \"teh best\"?) And now we return you to our regularly scheduled review. I'm not a huge fan of non-fiction. Scratch that. I'm a huge fan of non-fiction, but not so huge a fan of reading non-fiction. While I appreciate learning and broadening my understanding of the world around and as it once was, I find myself pretty quickly distracted from whatever non-fictional work I pick up. The fact is: most writers of non-fiction are more experts in their field of study than they are expert authors. They deliver the goods well, but aren't quite as adept at prettying them up for consumption. Erik Larson, however, is a genius. Or something. I could not put this book down. (In the figurative sense\u2014it actually took me about two weeks to read.) The entire length of my time in this book was marked with moments of in which I would stop reading, interrupt my wife from the depths of her studies, and remark again how good this book was. (I'm sure that she would have been happier had Larson just been your average purveyor of non-fictionalizations.) In The Devil in the White City , Larson chronicles chiefly a tale of two city-dwellers. Architect, <---C>Daniel Burnham</---C> and pharmacist, Henry Holmes. One would helm the creation of a wonderland of awe-striking beauty and refinement. The other would become one of America's earliest and most diabolical serial killers. All this against the backdrop of the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition (a.k.a. the Chicago World's Fair). Daniel Burnham, the self-made architect, who designed the Rookery in Chicago would design the Flatiron Building in New York, assembled a team of the best American architects of the day for the task of crafting a World's Fair in Chicago that would be even more exquisite than the one held in Paris years earlier. The Paris Exposition had also unveiled Gustave Eiffel's incredible tower, so Burnham put a call out to American engineering: something grander would have to be proposed and built. National reputation was at stake as well as civic pride. Larson explores in exciting detail the glories and the tragedies of this great endeavor. In contrast to this paean to human ingenuity and spirit, Larson focuses the other half of his narrative on a man as diligent in his chosen task as Burnham was in his. H.H. Holmes, the self-style pharmacist, who killed upwards of twenty-seven (mostly young women, fresh to the city), built for himself a hideous parody of the grand buildings that the world would soon celebrate. Bit by bit, he crafted what would later be known as his murder castle, a hotel whose ground floor hosted several businesses and whose other floors would boast far more sinister use. The second and third floors contained numerous rooms and hallways and secret compartments and switches. Airtight rooms with gas outlets. Walk-in vaults purpose not for keeping out but for keeping in. And a slicked chute to the basement where a kiln, acid, and limepits awaited. Holmes was handsome and charming in a way that made him irresistible to women. He was also a psychopath who would turn the American attention far too late. Larson, as a chronicler, is top notch. He entertains even as he educates. And he leaves just enough narrative tension to compel the reader along his path. Larson knows how to keep enough information back to avoid rendering the latter half of his book naught but excruciating anti-climax. The Devil in the White City is certainly an accomplishment and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to anyone. If forced to, I will admit* two quibbles with the book: 1) I was thirsty for more pictures and wanted desperately to see these buildings that Burnham and company were so busied upon; and 2) on the whole Larson keeps his voice clean of any emotive spots not merited by the characters themselves, but there were two moments when I was sure I was hearing Larson's voice beam through (it could have been worse\u2014at least those two moments were funny). *note: see what I did there? You didn't actually have to force me. ...more So, no offense to those that liked this book, but I'm throwing in the towel after 75 pages. It's just not holding my interest. Part of the reason for this is that Larson's writing style is way too speculative for my taste in non-fiction. I just finished reading the Path Between Seas by David McCullough, and he does such an amazing job of making complicated, historical events interesting, without fabricating scenes that \"could have\" happened. Even that wouldn't have bothered me that much if Lars So, no offense to those that liked this book, but I'm throwing in the towel after 75 pages. It's just not holding my interest. Part of the reason for this is that Larson's writing style is way too speculative for my taste in non-fiction. I just finished reading the Path Between Seas by David McCullough, and he does such an amazing job of making complicated, historical events interesting, without fabricating scenes that \"could have\" happened. Even that wouldn't have bothered me that much if Larson had said something more like, \"It's likely he did this, since we know this about his personality\" or whatever, rather than \"He reached out and touched her hand as he spoke to her.\" There was no clear distinction between what definitely happened, and what maybe could have happened. That got bothersome. I could have just ignored the non-fiction aspect and enjoyed the story, if not for Larson's habit of getting bogged down in inconsequential details. He seemed to throw facts (or conjectured facts) in whenever the fancy struck him, rather than keeping the story moving. And finally, I got annoyed with the jumping back and forth between Holmes's story and the architecture/Worlds Fair story. Just when I'd get into one, we'd switch to the other. He could have done a better job of interweaving those. So, since my curiosity is piqued, but not enough to continue reading this book, I'm just going to do some Wikipedia reading and call it good. ...more For me, reviewing this book is similar to trying to review any Nicolas Cage movie from the past 20 years, in that if I was asked if Cage's over-the-top performance was the best thing or the worst thing about the movie, I could only answer... \"Yes!\" ( Pictured - one of Nicolas Cage's more subdued performances; Not pictured - sanity ) If you were to ask me my favorite thing about this book, I would immediately answer, \"Erik Larson's writing style!\" This book is mostly talked about for the portions pert For me, reviewing this book is similar to trying to review any Nicolas Cage movie from the past 20 years, in that if I was asked if Cage's over-the-top performance was the best thing or the worst thing about the movie, I could only answer... \"Yes!\" ( Pictured - one of Nicolas Cage's more subdued performances; Not pictured - sanity ) If you were to ask me my favorite thing about this book, I would immediately answer, \"Erik Larson's writing style!\" This book is mostly talked about for the portions pertaining to one of America's first serial killers, Dr. H. H. Holmes. In fact, when the greenlit movie adaptation by Martin Scorsese was recently announced, it focused primarily on the casting of Holmes. Yet, more time is spent in the book detailing the history of the 1893 World's Fair, particularly architect Daniel Burnham's struggles in trying to get everything finished in time for the Fair's opening. I'm actually not much of a history buff, so I feared the \"true crimeless\" segments of the book wouldn't hold my interest, but I'm happy to announce that I was wrong. Larson's wit made even some of the dryer parts of the novel entertaining, and he even manages to build suspense when he's raising questions we may already know the answer to, like what engineering marvel would the Fair's organizer's decide on to hopefully rival the Eiffel Tower unveiled at France's world fair? As for the segments detailing Dr. H. H. Holmes and his grotesque crimes, this is where Larson's writing really shines. Instead of treating this strictly as a historical account (\"and then this happened, and then this happened...) , Larson actually writes these moments in the style of a thriller. He gets into Holmes head with the same prowess that Thomas Harris used to make Hannibal Lecter continue to chill our bones long after we had put the book down. There were times I almost forgot I was even reading a nonfiction book, as in these moments Larson's novel read more like something we'd expect to find in the horror section. Which is why if you were to ask me what my least-favorite thing about this book was, I would immediately answer, \"Erik Larson's writing style!\" Bet you didn't see that coming, eh? That was a twist right out of an M. Night Shyamalan movie! (Now imagine if Nicolas Cage was playing the villain in M. Night Shyamalan's rumored \"Unbreakable\" sequel... actually, on second thought, don't imagine that...I don't think the human brain can handle that much awesome!) While Larson's writing during the Holmes segments was undeniably gripping, I felt he went a little overboard with his speculative approach. He describes what was going through the victims' heads moments before Holmes murdered them, things Larson has no way of knowing were actually true. This did take me out of the book quite a few times, as when I'm reading nonfiction and the author keeps adding details that can't actually be confirmed, it make me begin to wonder how true this true crime novel really is! I did enjoy reading \"Devil in the White City\", although I would say it's more a book for history enthusiasts than true crime fans, as the 1893 World's Fair is clearly the novel's main event, while Dr. Holmes is more of a sideshow freak. Whether you're here for the Fair or the murder castle, Erik Larson's skills as a writer makes this an interesting read, as long as you don't mind getting some chocolate in your peanut butter speculative fiction in your true crime. (2-and-a-half-hours of fighting over chocolate in peanut butter... still a better movie than \"Batman V Superman: Dawn of Justice\"!) ...more Heard the one about the architect and the serial killer? It's not a bad joke, but it is a great book. The architect was Daniel Burnham, the driving force behind the Chicago World's Fair of 1893; the killer was H.H. Holmes, a Svengali-type figure who lured young women to his hotel and did the most gruesome things, the least shocking of which was murder. The two men never met, but The Devil in the White City brings their stories together, and although it reads like a novel, everything is thoroughl Heard the one about the architect and the serial killer? It's not a bad joke, but it is a great book. The architect was Daniel Burnham, the driving force behind the Chicago World's Fair of 1893; the killer was H.H. Holmes, a Svengali-type figure who lured young women to his hotel and did the most gruesome things, the least shocking of which was murder. The two men never met, but The Devil in the White City brings their stories together, and although it reads like a novel, everything is thoroughly researched fact. The book The Great Columbian Exhibition of 1893 was Chicago's big chance to shake off its old image as a hog-slaughtering, dirty and dangerous town and to take its place as America's second city. Although the fair's theme gave a backward nod to the 400th anniversary of Columbus bumping into the Americas on his way to India, its vision was futuristic: for the first time, electric lighting, clean water, and planned green spaces could be experienced on a massive scale. Innovations - the Ferris Wheel, the hamburger, an elevated railway, Juicy Fruit gum, the zip fastener and shredded wheat among them - enhanced the feeling that the next century would belong to America. The buildings were monumental, the exhibits eclectic (one example: a map of the USA made entirely of pickles) and the visitors were awestruck. They called it the White City, from the colour of main buildings that were imposing by day, dazzling by night. Much of this was down to Daniel Burnham. His can-do reputation for building skyscrapers made him a natural choice as project manager. But we're frequently reminded that he had to push himself to the limit and step on quite few toes to ensure the Fair's success, a job made all the more difficult by economic recession, bickering architects, striking workers, pompous politicians and Chicago's notorious weather. As if all this weren't enough to occupy the reader, a parallel story takes us inside the grim world of H.H. Holmes. Capitalising on the advent of the Fair, Holmes built his own hotel to attract single young women who were streaming into the city from across America in search of work, independence and a new life in the big city. One such unfortunate believed she was on the threshold of marriage to this enchanting gentleman; in reality, she was destined for a gas chamber in the hotel basement. She was not to be the last to fall for his charms, but even in death there was no rest. Holmes literally picked over the bones of his victims, selling their remains to medical students eager to examine recently deceased corpses - no questions asked. At first, the benefit for Holmes was financial, but as time passed, the chase, the kill, the post mortem had become ends in themselves. A single-minded detective and a stroke of luck brought Holmes to justice, but even when he realised the game was up, he managed to keep his unsettling cool. My thoughts I had a strong feeling that I would take to this book, and from start to finish I was never disappointed. It fairly zings along, both stories proving absorbing, while casting out facts like frisbees. Although Burnham and Holmes are the book's dominant characters, there are walk-on parts for numerous figures who made their own mark on the White City. Buffalo Bill, Thomas Edison, and Scott Joplin are among the famous names, and the description of George Ferris's efforts to debut his eponymous wheel is a story in itself. But the lesser-known characters are also worthy of note. I pitied poor Frederick Olmsted's attempts to landscape the exhibition in the midst of an enormous, muddy construction site and a fit of depression. But I can see how ahead of his time he really was, insisting on natural greenery instead of a regimented collection of flower beds. Then there was Patrick Prendergast, whose descent into madness was to have a shocking impact on the Fair's final days; it's here that Larson's descriptive powers really come into their own. As for the serial killer, the author doesn't dwell on the sensationalist aspects of his more grisly activities, but what he leaves to the imagination is far more powerful. Extracts from letters written by a child kidnapped by Holmes are among the most upsetting words I've ever read - a reminder that the worst of human nature may not only be found in our own times. But my lasting impression from this book is one of optimism, of Burnham straining every nerve and sinew to achieve the impossible, and the ordinary folk of Chicago bursting with pride at what had been achieved. The U.S. edition of the book has the subtitle \"the fair that changed America\" - and that's certainly true, right down to the Pledge of Allegiance which can trace its origins to the exhibition's opening day. Beyond that, the Chicago Fair of 1893 not only showed America how it could be, but how it would be - better living and working conditions, convenience foods, domestic appliances, gadgets and more time for fun. In short, it heralded the prospect of a decent day's pay for a full day's work, a clean, safe environment, and of course the God-given right to eat shredded wheat. Who would like this book? I enjoyed it because of an interest in cities and architecture. But it would equally appeal to readers who are into engineering, politics, social history,horticulture, true crimes: does that leave anyone out? ...more I was genuinely excited to get back into this story every time I picked it up. At times, this jumble of factual events felt like a tale I would contrive while wandering aimlessly around Wikipedia (even though Erik Larson says he did not get information from the internet because, apparently all, data found on the internet is questionable). Most of the dramatic facts this book will tell you show up near the top of the internet, and many are proclaimed at a bars when someone lets everyone know wher I was genuinely excited to get back into this story every time I picked it up. At times, this jumble of factual events felt like a tale I would contrive while wandering aimlessly around Wikipedia (even though Erik Larson says he did not get information from the internet because, apparently all, data found on the internet is questionable). Most of the dramatic facts this book will tell you show up near the top of the internet, and many are proclaimed at a bars when someone lets everyone know where Pabst won their blue ribbon and follows with, \u201cA young man by the name of George Farris went to that same fair in Chicago, 1893 \u2014 and he built himself a wheel.\u201d The best story and the reason why I wanted more was the story of Holmes, who murdered dozens while becoming America\u2019s first serial killer. I didn\u2019t really care for the ten plus pages describing where the fair would go and then what park in said city it would be in. Some of these details were distracting and took too long. As the reader, I just wanted to get to the gruesome parts. People like to say that non-fiction, \u201creads like fiction,\u201d when they think it is good but that doesn\u2019t make much sense to me. Books without dialogue generally feel to me like Wikipedia, and they're good when I am able to stay interested. ...more Larson could be the worst nonfiction writer working in America today. When he notes that \"[Frederick Law] Olmsted was no literary stylist. Sentences wandered through the report like morning glory through the pickets of a fence\" he might as well be describing himself. It's painful to make your way through his books. The melodrama is over the top. He'll go on for several pages about some unnamed person, attempting to heighten the \"mystery,\" and anyone who graduated second grade will quickly realiz Larson could be the worst nonfiction writer working in America today. When he notes that \"[Frederick Law] Olmsted was no literary stylist. Sentences wandered through the report like morning glory through the pickets of a fence\" he might as well be describing himself. It's painful to make your way through his books. The melodrama is over the top. He'll go on for several pages about some unnamed person, attempting to heighten the \"mystery,\" and anyone who graduated second grade will quickly realize he's talking about the inventor of the Ferris Wheel. But only several chapters later - in the manner of Nancy Drew abruptly tumbling to the bottom of a dark well - he'll have the mystery man dramatically sign his name to a letter: George Washington Gale Ferris. George Washington Gale Ferris !!!!!!!! I did not see that coming. His narrative is peppered with the most insignificant, totally unrelated factoids, I suppose because they amused him and he couldn't stand the thought of leaving them out. He loves nothing more than to set a scene - so and so in a Pullman car or a fine dining club, this and that person on an ocean liner, attempting to send a cable to someone on the Titanic - merely in order to convey some piece of information totally unrelated to the wholly gratuitous scene. As to historical accuracy, doubtless there's a fair bit; he does have lots of end notes, and he consulted many historical sources. But he also embellishes novelistically in a way that no real historian would ever allow himself to do. It's shameful, and shameless. He asserts in the text that such and such happened, but if you check the endnotes, it didn't really happen - but it could have , he says. It was likely, he felt. After reading Isaac's Storm , which was also heavily embellished and the endnotes similarly acknowledging such, I don't trust anything this man writes. I wash my hands of him. ...more The White City rises above the lake, like a fantasy from another time that never existed, but the eyes do not deceive, this image is real, bright lights glow at night, millions of respectful , quiet , mesmerized people look and walk by, the moon shines and reflects on the gigantic white buildings and glittering waters, magic drapes all...The Chicago World's Fair of 1893, arguably the greatest one in history, the citizens of this metropolis, the second city of the nation need to show everyone tha The White City rises above the lake, like a fantasy from another time that never existed, but the eyes do not deceive, this image is real, bright lights glow at night, millions of respectful , quiet , mesmerized people look and walk by, the moon shines and reflects on the gigantic white buildings and glittering waters, magic drapes all...The Chicago World's Fair of 1893, arguably the greatest one in history, the citizens of this metropolis, the second city of the nation need to show everyone that they are more than hog killers, with speeding trains and prosperous businessmen , this is a sophisticated town, particularly to arch rival New York . In a short while after winning the contest to hold this extravaganza, beating St. Louis, Washington and the big enemy New York City for the honor, from Congress, the next step , yes committees , Americans love them, they multiply like rabbits but get in the way of progress. At long last, emerging from countless delays, officially named the \"World's Columbian Exposition\", to commemorate the 400th anniversary of Columbus's discovery of America, in 1492, but its six months run will start a year later in 1893. A leading Chicago architect Mr. Daniel Burnham and his partner John Root, are chosen for the enormous job to build it, but also residing in the overcrowded, fast growing, violent, dirty city, Dr. Herman Webster Mudgett , alias (one of many ) H.H.(Henry) Holmes, America's first well known serial killer. The two will never meet but their stories will make headlines around the globe. Mr. Burnham task seems impossible, made worse when his closest friend in business and in private life dies, John Root, the committees don't and can't make decisions, days pass still nothing is being accomplished, at last the authority is granted him to be the boss, Burnham, (\" Make no little plans; they have no magic to stir men's blood\") slowly things begin to appear, on a grand- scale, the white, ( all the same color) huge, electrified buildings soaring into the sky, the scary, new Ferris Wheel will take you there, if it is ever built, lagoons are made, islands formed , canals dug, the waters come from sparkling Lake Michigan, boats follow, the ugly, empty Jackson Park begins to fill, something special even at this early stage is felt...Dr.Holmes likes pretty, young women , just off farms and small towns, the feelings are mutual, he pays attention to their every word, looks into their eyes, touches them gently, the handsome, soft, well spoken con man, has plenty of charm, few are not enamored, wealthy too, owner of the strange, rather gloomy, with mysterious odors, the World's Fair Hotel, nicknamed \"The Castle \", he keeps marrying the women, a real lady killer...but will murder men too. This nonfiction book is very entertaining, and always informative, you can imagine yourself back to the spectacular, enormously successful , thrilling, magical fair, the numerous attractions , in hundreds of buildings, from the very popular, exotic , belly dancers, to the unsuitable Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show , he made a fortune, just outside, the exposition grounds , they don't make this kind anymore.. ...more This is really a great read filled with meticulously researched historical facts and notable people of the time. Even Helen Keller made an appearance at the 1893 Chicago World's Fair! Alternating chapters educate the reader about the enormous undertaking and time constraints of building \"The White City\" combined with the daily bloodthirsty activities of serial killer Herman Webster Mudgett aka Dr. H. H. Holmes. Reading about B. H. Burnham's construction of the fair during a time of deadly disease This is really a great read filled with meticulously researched historical facts and notable people of the time. Even Helen Keller made an appearance at the 1893 Chicago World's Fair! Alternating chapters educate the reader about the enormous undertaking and time constraints of building \"The White City\" combined with the daily bloodthirsty activities of serial killer Herman Webster Mudgett aka Dr. H. H. Holmes. Reading about B. H. Burnham's construction of the fair during a time of deadly diseases, grotesque environmental conditions and bank failures was certainly enlightening, but most intriguing for me was erection of the monstrous \"Ferris\" Wheel with enclosed glassed-in seats. (googled some amazing photos) And this dude Dr. HHH.....Picture a young, handsome prosperous man with mesmerizing big blue eyes who is in fact an evil psychopath, sniveling cheat and conniving polygamist. This devil incarnate killed on a whim and caused turmoil in so many families with his slithering knack of preying on the weak and vulnerable; and while I wasn't too surprised at the naivety of the young women, the men falling for his sleazy schemes really shocked me. This work of non-fiction is jam-packed with interesting facts, faces and descriptive details that are too numerous to even begin to mention here, but now, whenever I see Cracker Jack, I'll sure remember where it originated. ...more Utterly compelling. Ohhhh, this book is creeeeeepy and all-true!!! Being from Chicago I was in an awful thrall the entire time. The only thing that was missing for me would have been some kind of map to show where exactly the Fair was located, and all the other buildings he talks about... I think the fair was probably located roughly on what the Museum Campus is now, but I still would like to see a map. And the people! Burnham and Root and Atwood... and Carter Henry Harrison! It says his mansion was on Ashland, I'm Ohhhh, this book is creeeeeepy and all-true!!! Being from Chicago I was in an awful thrall the entire time. The only thing that was missing for me would have been some kind of map to show where exactly the Fair was located, and all the other buildings he talks about... I think the fair was probably located roughly on what the Museum Campus is now, but I still would like to see a map. And the people! Burnham and Root and Atwood... and Carter Henry Harrison! It says his mansion was on Ashland, I'm wondering exactly where. And Mudgett... I wonder where all of his buildings were... it sends chills up my spine just to think about it. I wonder if anyone has put together a tourist's map based on this book? O.K., beyond my personal reasons for being fascinated, the writing is excellent, and really well documented. And the charming thing is that he documented everything in the back of the book in a really simple way, so if you were so inclined you would not have to be a big fancy scholar to follow his paper trail and see all of this stuff for yourself. Power to the people! And the writing style is accessible and the voice is also very appropriate... he kind of veers between eulogist and undertaker. And the few times that he takes liberties and describes things that no one could ever really possibly have documented, he does so in a way that is careful and responsible. And I think for him not to have taken the liberties would have been a mistake... I think everyone who read the book would have thought there was something missing. And what's ultimately really rewarding about this book is that the author outlines all the ways in which the influences of Fair of 1893 reverberated in American culture (and the world) for years afterward. Our aesthetic sensibility as a nation was permanently changed. And our technological sensibility. And to think that all of this was planned so fast, it was like a supernova in the middle of this underdeveloped backwater (oh, I said it. I live here now, and sometimes I still think of Chicago that way.). And that with all that progress comes this darkness, too, there's this underside to everything. And with that lovely thought, I'm going to try and find the Wooded Island. Ciao! ...more The Devil in the White City is one of those enticing little books in which you know what you're going to get, yet you read it anyway, and it delivers all the salacious excitement you desired...you filthy degenerate, you! Amid of all the magnificence and enchantment of the 1893 Chicago World's Fair... ...a doctor lured countless victims from the 27 million people who attended the fair into his \"Murder Castle.\" His evasive trail is followed and his horrid deeds recorded, all intertwined with the oft The Devil in the White City is one of those enticing little books in which you know what you're going to get, yet you read it anyway, and it delivers all the salacious excitement you desired...you filthy degenerate, you! Amid of all the magnificence and enchantment of the 1893 Chicago World's Fair... ...a doctor lured countless victims from the 27 million people who attended the fair into his \"Murder Castle.\" His evasive trail is followed and his horrid deeds recorded, all intertwined with the often contentious development and creation of one of the most ambitious World's Fairs ever. The book is short. There isn't a wealth of information to relate, but Larson squeezes what he can out of it and in an admirable fashion, artfully revealing details and teasing out the tension. Not long after reading this, I went to Chicago for my first ever visit and a naive part of me hoped to find the World's Fair exhibits still up and running. A hundred years and more after the event, Chicago has moved on, but the fair grounds are still used for peculiar exhibitions and one of the original buildings is still in use as a museum, so it's possible to visit the site and daydream yourself back into the glorious wonderment, not to mention the horror, if you wish. ...more The White City is the Chicago Columbia Exposition, a world fair in which all the buildings were painted white; the time the late 1800s during the fair; the Devil is a serial killer. Yet this is a non-fiction book. Larson has written a very informative as well as entertaining story. The Columbian Exposition was a very big deal. Chicago had vied for the honor of presenting a world\u2019s fair, and when they were selected the energy of the famed slaughterhouse city was put to the wheel. There are many p The White City is the Chicago Columbia Exposition, a world fair in which all the buildings were painted white; the time the late 1800s during the fair; the Devil is a serial killer. Yet this is a non-fiction book. Larson has written a very informative as well as entertaining story. The Columbian Exposition was a very big deal. Chicago had vied for the honor of presenting a world\u2019s fair, and when they were selected the energy of the famed slaughterhouse city was put to the wheel. There are many personalities involved, not least Daniel Burnham, one of the top architects of his day and the coordinator of the entire project design. He brought in Frederick Law Olmstead and many other top architects. Chicago was determined to outdo the French, whose world fair in Paris had been a triumph, introducing, among other things, the Eiffel Tower, and mass use of alternating current. Larson describes the conflicting and outlandish personalities of the time, and makes us marvel that the thing ever actually got done. The Chicago Exposition introduced some significant items of its own, not least of which was a very progressive notion of city planning, for the enterprise required attention to a multitude of facets simultaneously in order to come to fruition. One of the structures built was then the largest building in the world. The fair introduced Mister Ferris\u2019 first working wheel. The Disney family attended and the fair may have inspired Walt to a development of his own. Buffalo Bill made millions with his entertainment just outside the fair gates (The fair had not allowed him to be a part of the show inside). Weather was a formidable opponent to the construction, as was the state of the economy, namely plummeting. Counterbalancing the travails and triumphs of creating the fair, the Devil of the title was a young man named Holmes (no, not Sherlock). He had a very winning way with people, particularly creditors and attractive young women. He had some flaws however. Among them was a complete inability to empathize with anyone. He was an extreme example of what we refer to today as a psychopath. He set up shop in Chicago about that time, acquired some property and constructed on it a building of his own design. It was called The Castle, and one might be forgiven for imagining it with lightning bolts blasting stormy skies. For it was here that he murdered untold numbers of people, women, men, children. He designed the building to incorporate a space in which he could trap and gas people. He also allowed for his need to incinerate the bodies without releasing much aroma. His charm kept the suspicious at bay. Eventually, of course, he was found out and brought to justice, but not until he had slain somewhere between 50 and 200 people. Larson peppers the book with dozens of satisfying factoids, about the people he is describing and about the times. It was, despite some of the darker subject matter, a very engaging, informative, and yes, fun read. ...more My expectations were high for this book of popular history, but I wasn't disappointed. The Devil In The White City is an entertaining and informative look at Chicago\u2019s 1893 World\u2019s Fair, which despite many obstacles \u2013 lack of time and money, natural disasters, a bad economy, pressure to top Paris\u2019s fair, which introduced the iconic Eiffel Tower \u2013 got completed and proceeded to make international headlines and change the country. Larson tells the stories of two self-made obsessives: Daniel Burnham, My expectations were high for this book of popular history, but I wasn't disappointed. The Devil In The White City is an entertaining and informative look at Chicago\u2019s 1893 World\u2019s Fair, which despite many obstacles \u2013 lack of time and money, natural disasters, a bad economy, pressure to top Paris\u2019s fair, which introduced the iconic Eiffel Tower \u2013 got completed and proceeded to make international headlines and change the country. Larson tells the stories of two self-made obsessives: Daniel Burnham, the fair\u2019s chief architect who went on to design NYC\u2019s Flatiron building, and Dr. H.H. Holmes, a handsome pharmacist/entrepreneur who lured impressionable young women (newly arrived for the fair and often on their own for the first time in their lives) to their grisly ends. At first Holmes\u2019s serial killer narrative is more gripping than Burnham\u2019s bureaucratic and administrative woes; the details are just too macabre. He built a place near the fair called The World\u2019s Fair Hotel that had a unique design: it included a heavily sealed-off, soundproof room that could be piped with gas; another room where he could perform \"surgeries\"; and a huge oven where he could incinerate bodies. Always on the lookout for more cash (Larson details the man\u2019s many swindles), he figured out a way to sell his victims\u2019 skeletons to a nearby teaching facility. Gruesome . But as I read on, I got caught up in the sturm und drang around the fair. Despite knowing in advance that the event happened, there's lots of suspense. Would sickly landscape architect Frederick Olmsted, best known for designing Central Park, be well enough to finish his designs and see his vision realized? Could some engineer come up with an idea that would top Paris\u2019s Eiffel Tower? (Some of the proposals to this last question are truly hilarious, including a tower so tall it included chutes for people to ride back to New York.) Larson, a former staff writer for The Wall Street Journal , has done impressive amounts of research. His \u201cNotes and Sources\u201d chapter is fascinating, especially when he explains how he pieced together scenes that no one witnessed. At times the detail is almost too much, as in the three complete dinner menus for fancy galas before and during the fair. The Holmes narrative is structured like a thriller. With each \u201cOh no he didn\u2019t!\u201d revelation, you keep wondering: \u201cWill he be caught? Surely this can\u2019t go on!\u201d Larson doesn\u2019t disappoint in telling his story, which even includes a period of time \u2013 very important in gathering evidence, as it turns out \u2013 that Holmes spent in my home town of Toronto! There are also many anecdotes sprinkled throughout the book involving famous people (Buffalo Bill Cody, Nikola Tesla, Annie Oakley, Theodore Dreiser) and products (Shredded Wheat, Aunt Jemima, Juicy Fruit, Pabst\u2019s Blue Ribbon). Did you know the term \u201cWindy City\u201d has nothing to do with Chicago\u2019s weather? At times the narrative is a little choppy, since Larson switches between Burnham and Holmes's tales. He also interweaves a less gripping story about a man named Patrick Prendergast, which unspools like a B or C plot until its conclusion. Speaking of plots, an inevitable film is in the works, starring Leonardo Di Caprio as Holmes. He\u2019ll be great. But I\u2019m glad I didn\u2019t have his image in mind as I was reading the book. (A chilling archival picture of Holmes is included. On that subject, a few more photographs of other people and places would have been helpful.) I suggest reading it before more casting is announced. Better to let Larson\u2019s story play out in your imagination before you see it reduced forever on the silver screen. ...more My daily life is filled with non-fiction: facts that are collected to give information quickly and easily to a reader. When I read for enjoyment, I usually gravitate toward fiction. I didn't realize this book was non-fiction when I bought it. I bought it because it came recommended from Katie, who has good book taste and hasn't steered me down the wrong path yet. When I read the back cover before beginning, I thought: what the hell did I get myself into? Surprisingly, I found myself immediately h My daily life is filled with non-fiction: facts that are collected to give information quickly and easily to a reader. When I read for enjoyment, I usually gravitate toward fiction. I didn't realize this book was non-fiction when I bought it. I bought it because it came recommended from Katie, who has good book taste and hasn't steered me down the wrong path yet. When I read the back cover before beginning, I thought: what the hell did I get myself into? Surprisingly, I found myself immediately hooked. This book is a triumph because Erik Larson researched the hell out of this topic. I know from my daily experience: if you dig hard enough, interesting facts have a way of presenting themselves. It's a joy to witness someone transform the mundane into the engaging. Larson does this. He pings us back and forth between two men of great ambition - Burnham and Holmes - before, during and after the time of their greatest triumphs. Burnham is the architect of the World's Fair (or World's Columbian Exposition), which has invaded Chicago at the end of the 19th century. Holmes is a con artist with an insatiable thirst to lure innocent young ladies into his den of horrors. He is America's Jack the Ripper without the headlines. Like many, I was most intrigued by the Holmes chapters. I often found I was \"treating\" myself by reading the Holmes chapters; the Burnham chapters were a means to that end. A funny thing happened about halfway through, however. I couldn't get enough of the fair; it's descriptions, the maddening timetables, the enormous pressures to \"out Eiffel Eiffel\" and prove Chicago worthy of what New York coveted. This is a book for everyone that loves to read. It's for academics - although they may find fault with some of Larson's hypotheses; for serious readers, and for not so serious readers. Don't take my word for it. Take mine and everybody else's. ...more The Devil in the White City is a book about the White City \u2014 the 1893 Chicago World's Fair, and a book about a devil \u2014 a psychopathic serial killer. I enjoyed both books here, but wasn't pleased with the author's decision to try to integrate them into one book. If they had been separate, they each would have probably earned four stars \u2014 perhaps five. The White City half certainly dealt with a fascinating cast of characters, architecture was skyrocketing in importance, and Chicago was a hotbed of a The Devil in the White City is a book about the White City \u2014 the 1893 Chicago World's Fair, and a book about a devil \u2014 a psychopathic serial killer. I enjoyed both books here, but wasn't pleased with the author's decision to try to integrate them into one book. If they had been separate, they each would have probably earned four stars \u2014 perhaps five. The White City half certainly dealt with a fascinating cast of characters, architecture was skyrocketing in importance, and Chicago was a hotbed of architectural innovation. And since architects invariably deal with wealth, all the contradictions and surprises of the Gilded Age are brought to the fore. And perhaps the devil half contained enough meat to reach the topmost tier of true-crime nonfiction, just under Capote's unsurpassable In Cold Blood . The social changes seen by the poor \u2014 the gilded age's dark lining, as it were \u2014 were just as riveting as the boardroom side of the story. That young women were responding to somewhat loosening social roles is critical to the devil side of the story, but what is driving this is elided. That Chicago's police force is inadequate to the task of even noticing that startling numbers of people are simply going missing \u2014 why? We come to understand that it wasn't simple incompetence, but yet another manifestation with how the world was changing. Geyer , the investigator who brought down the devil, deserved much more attention as an amalgam of the fictional Sherlock Holmes and a harbinger of how the FBI would someday work. Larson could have even tossed in a little twist to tied this into the current CSI-inspired fascination with forensics. By twining these two stories together, the author lost much and gained little. For example, since this wasn't strictly a true-crime story, he couldn't trace developments in crime detection forward over the decades; and because it wasn't strictly an architects' story, he couldn't follow up on his teasers regarding how the World's Fair changed American's conceptions of urban space. Even combined, this book needed a much heavier dose of sociology: yes, both stories with societal change, and both take place in Chicago \u2014 but what does this mean? Why at this time, and at this place? The Devil in the White City is a worthwhile book, but not nearly as interesting as the material warrants. ...more I enjoyed Devil in the White City, particularly for the wealth of information (tons of great trivia!) in this novel-style nonfiction book. I probably would have appreciated it more, though, if I were from Chicago, a city planner or architect, or had a fascination with serial killers. What was by far the most irksome for me was Larson's insistence on foreshadowing absolutely every character introduction and happening in the book. Some are clever, but this \"one day, he would make headlines\"-style b I enjoyed Devil in the White City, particularly for the wealth of information (tons of great trivia!) in this novel-style nonfiction book. I probably would have appreciated it more, though, if I were from Chicago, a city planner or architect, or had a fascination with serial killers. What was by far the most irksome for me was Larson's insistence on foreshadowing absolutely every character introduction and happening in the book. Some are clever, but this \"one day, he would make headlines\"-style became tiresome for me, quickly. Beyond this style irritation, I was disappointed, in Larson's failure to ever unite the two main threads: those of the World's Fair (mostly its chief architect, Daniel Burnham) and \"America's first serial killer,\" H.H. Holmes, who murdered dozens during the same period. They are each interesting, but aside from not seeing concrete ties between the stories, the reader is unsure of why Larson would pick these specific lives to parallel. Why not a madam operating in Chicago at the time? Why not a Zulu warrior brought to America as an exhibition piece? Etc. Regardless of why Larson chose the World's Fair and H.H. Holmes as threads for his narrative, through them, readers can learn a great deal about this period in American history. ...more Excellent history lesson!! This book captured my attention from page 1. I enjoyed reading about many of the influential people who made this great nation what it is today. I learned so much more than when I was a student. On the flip side, I was horrified by the murders committed by Holmes and how much of an evil character he was. A brief list of things that generally don't strike my fancy: architecture, the Gilded Age, landscape design, metropolitan cities, politics (of the historical kind), and serial killers. So, for a novel that exclusively focuses on all of these things, the very fact that I made it through and maintained mild interest is quite extraordinary. However, my interest never really piqued above \"mild\" and, hence, the three star rating. The Devil in the White City is really two stories: the planning and buil A brief list of things that generally don't strike my fancy: architecture, the Gilded Age, landscape design, metropolitan cities, politics (of the historical kind), and serial killers. So, for a novel that exclusively focuses on all of these things, the very fact that I made it through and maintained mild interest is quite extraordinary. However, my interest never really piqued above \"mild\" and, hence, the three star rating. The Devil in the White City is really two stories: the planning and building of the 1893 World Columbian Exposition in Chicago and the simultaneous planning and building of a serial killer's lair. Larson uses the convergence of these two storylines to juxtapose man's capacity for the divine against an equal capacity for evil. Two men become the embodiment of this dichotomy: Daniel Burnham, chief architect of the Exposition, who brought the dream of the \"White City\" to life, and H. H. Holmes, the psychopath who used the bustle of the World's Fair to lure victims to his real-life house of horrors. This intention seems to be summed up in a quote from the physician John L. Capen, who, reflecting upon Holmes's appearance, says of his eyes, \"They are blue. Great murderers, like great men in other walks of activity, have blue eyes.\" Attention is drawn time and again to the startling blue eyes of both Burnham and Holmes, illustrating that each man would become \"great\" in his way. However, Larson thankfully doesn't browbeat his reader with lengthy explorations of the nature of good and evil. Instead, he presents the extraordinary lives of each man during that fateful time and allows the reader to draw these comparisons. As the White City is built, America is presented with the dream of what it could be. A civilized country could emerge from the twilight of the frontier and our pioneer spirit could live on in a future where men like Tesla, Edison, and Ferris looked toward building the impossible. Despite the hopes and possibilities represented by the Columbian Exposition, there is also an undercurrent of darkness in the form of union strikes, economic collapses, and cities large enough to swallow ambitious men and women whole without leaving a trace--cities that serve as the perfect hunting grounds for a man like Holmes. These are compelling stories and, yet, they never quite came to life for me. Larson's research is obvious, but the pacing of the story is often slowed down by dry passages--especially those detailing the power struggles that occur during the planning of the Exposition. Larson is at his best while writing about Chicago itself, capturing the sights, smells, and sounds of a bustling and ambitious city eager to prove its worth as a cultural mecca to its more sophisticated counterpart, New York City. He's also adept at bringing historical characters to life (I particularly enjoyed it when Susan B. Anthony and Buffalo Bill cross paths). All in all, this is a worthwhile, if not riveting, read. Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder ...more This is a pretty famous book, but not one that's particularly been on my radar. But I was listening to my favorite podcast as of late, Lore, and there was an episode about this story, of the 1893 Chicago World's Fair and H. H. Holmes the murderer who used the venue to lure in vulnerable victims. It fascinated me, and it reminded me of this book I'd heard of. So I checked it out, and I'm SO glad I did. This is definitely one of my favorite reads of 2015. Now I know this book won't be for everyone. This is a pretty famous book, but not one that's particularly been on my radar. But I was listening to my favorite podcast as of late, Lore, and there was an episode about this story, of the 1893 Chicago World's Fair and H. H. Holmes the murderer who used the venue to lure in vulnerable victims. It fascinated me, and it reminded me of this book I'd heard of. So I checked it out, and I'm SO glad I did. This is definitely one of my favorite reads of 2015. Now I know this book won't be for everyone. If you don't find the politics behind and construction of the fair to be interesting, then you won't like virtually half of this book. But the historical aspects as well as the drama and intrigue behind the fair's regulations, development and questionable success was really fascinating. Plus there are so, so many things that we have today--inventions, historical figures, songs and other works of art--that came to fame from this fair. It's so interesting. And I almost felt the fair had more life, had been more fleshed out by the author, than the chapters revolving around Holmes' methods and murders. It's historical non-fiction/true crime at its best. And I will definitely be checking out more books by this author. 5/5 stars. ...more A friend suggested this book and I thought perhaps it would be similar to Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil which I thoroughly enjoyed---historical with a story woven into it. However, I was unfortunately unable to finish it. I think Goodreads needs a new category....\"got bored, so I gave up\". This book weaves together the true story of 2 men, an architect and a serial killer---with the Chicago World's Fair as the background. I think it was the voluminous details given about the difficulty A friend suggested this book and I thought perhaps it would be similar to Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil which I thoroughly enjoyed---historical with a story woven into it. However, I was unfortunately unable to finish it. I think Goodreads needs a new category....\"got bored, so I gave up\". This book weaves together the true story of 2 men, an architect and a serial killer---with the Chicago World's Fair as the background. I think it was the voluminous details given about the difficulty building the \"White City\" that finally did me in. I found myself eagerly skipping forward to the gory details of the evil Henry H. Holmes who seductively lures young women into his creepy lair. If there were cliff notes, I'd love to read how this all played out but alas, I haven't got time to wade through the all the construction problems, weather problems, ego problems, etc. to hang in there....gosh, I made it through half the book hoping that the author would finally get the two stories connected somehow! ...more Full review now posted below! Every time I hesitantly open a non-fiction book I think, \u201cMaybe this time. Maybe I won\u2019t hate this one.\u201d And every time, I\u2019m wrong. On the one hand, since History is one half of my dual B.A. Degree, I find the material interesting and respect the research that went into writing a book like The Devil in the White City . A book such as this one required tremendous time and dedication to write. How could I not respect that level of effort? On the other hand, I was bored Full review now posted below! Every time I hesitantly open a non-fiction book I think, \u201cMaybe this time. Maybe I won\u2019t hate this one.\u201d And every time, I\u2019m wrong. On the one hand, since History is one half of my dual B.A. Degree, I find the material interesting and respect the research that went into writing a book like The Devil in the White City . A book such as this one required tremendous time and dedication to write. How could I not respect that level of effort? On the other hand, I was bored to tears. Or to slumber. Either way, I had to muscle my way through it. Half of this book was the tale of America\u2019s first serial killer, which I thought would be fascinating. But Holmes was no Jack the Ripper and, while interesting, wasn\u2019t as compelling to read about as more brutal, hands-on killers. I know that sounds incredibly morbid, but it\u2019s true. He was a fascinating fellow, but a bland killer. The building of the World\u2019s Fair held in Chicago would have been much more palatable (for me) if it had been shortened to merely the highlights. Burnham was a self-made man who secured his future through that Fair, but he and his compatriots were not captivating enough to demand half of a four-hundred page book, in my opinion. I got incredibly bogged down in the details of the architecture, though the Fair sounded absolutely breathtaking. At the risk of sounding childish, I wish there had been more photographic representation of the Fair and less mind-numbing description. There were two parts of this book that I really enjoyed, the first being learning about various inventions unveiled at the fair. I was aware of Cracker Jacks and the Ferris Wheel being unveiled at the Fair. But who knew that zippers and Wrigley\u2019s gum and Aunt Jemima\u2019s Ready-Made Pancake mix all got their start at the world\u2019s largest gathering up to that point in history? And bless whoever invented the automatic dishwasher, which was also unveiled at the Fair. I don\u2019t know about you, but that\u2019s an invention that I\u2019m incredibly thankful for. I also really enjoyed learning about Detective Geyer, the Pinkerton man who finally brought Holmes to justice. Geyer\u2019s dedication to finding the missing Pitezel children, Howard, Nellie, and Alice, led to the uncovering of Holmes\u2019 other dark deeds. The majority of Americans followed the case religiously, and Geyer became America\u2019s Sherlock Holmes. I love anything Sherlock related, so that make my little nerd heart happy. Did I enjoy this book? Bottom-line: no. It was interesting on an intellectual level. I learned a lot. It gave me fodder for future lulls in conversation. But it wasn\u2019t entertaining, and I read to be entertained. I\u2019m an escapist, after all. Larson should be applauded for his hard work, but his book read like a dissertation to me. Most non-fiction does. And I can never seem to make myself enjoy reading anything factual. Now, if something is based on reality, I can get behind that. On occasion, anyway. But unless there\u2019s magic and swords and a plethora of events that could never actually happen, I just don\u2019t have much interest. That\u2019s not to say that I don\u2019t like truth in my fiction. In my opinion, the best fiction proclaims some truth that often gets lost in the shuffle of real life. Give me dragons with morality. Give me fairytales that jump of the page and whisper veracity in my ear. Give me fantasy that proclaims something. It moves me more than nonfiction any day. ...more Page Turning phenomenal! I took notes on my iphone to remind myself of 'gems' to 'share/write' about -- but there are 'at least' 2,000 'already' wonderful reviews --WELL DESERVING-- about this amazing TRUE STORY --I've not much more to add. The building of the Worlds Fair was fascinating ---(all the details -and the challenges were incredible, engaging-interesting, and exquisite! 'Holmes' --(the killer), was just CREEPY!!! FASTASTIC STORYTELLING!!!! Oreos deep fried in pancake batter\u2026Erik Larson\u2019s writing, like novelty food updated from the Chicago World\u2019s Fair (Cracker Jack, Shredded Wheat and Wrigley\u2019s Juicy Fruit Gum) sparkles with new tastes and delights. The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic and Madness at the Fair that Changed the World features intertwining stories of the creation of the world\u2019s fair and the serial killer H.H. Holmes. Of particular interest is how the fair shows the changing character of America at the turn of t Oreos deep fried in pancake batter\u2026Erik Larson\u2019s writing, like novelty food updated from the Chicago World\u2019s Fair (Cracker Jack, Shredded Wheat and Wrigley\u2019s Juicy Fruit Gum) sparkles with new tastes and delights. The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic and Madness at the Fair that Changed the World features intertwining stories of the creation of the world\u2019s fair and the serial killer H.H. Holmes. Of particular interest is how the fair shows the changing character of America at the turn of the century. At the same time, the transformation of Chicago into the fair site (with attractions such as the first Ferris Wheel with a capacity of 2,000 riders and attendance on some days of 750K) turned the streets of Chicago into an opportunistic killing ground. The account of Holmes\u2019s killings and how he turns his \u2018castle\u2019 into an instrument in the deaths (and how his crimes were overlooked because of the market for cadavers and articulated skeletons) is truly compelling. I enjoyed the book and the time period Larson covers in the book. Especially in the portrayal of the fair\u2019s architect, Burnham, I thought there were just too many details which didn't contribute to the overall narrative. How many deep fried Oreos can you eat and still recognize each bite as a new sensation? ...more I read this when it first came out 12 years ago and remembered only the part about the \"Devil\" - the serial killer who went by the name H.H. Holmes and murdered single women who stayed at his hotel to see the ginormous Chicago World's Fair of 1893. For this re-read, I listened to the audio version of the book. I don't know if because I'm 12 years smarter, or maybe my ears read better than my eyes, but I got SO MUCH more out of the book this time. In fact, while I came away with a vast quantity of I read this when it first came out 12 years ago and remembered only the part about the \"Devil\" - the serial killer who went by the name H.H. Holmes and murdered single women who stayed at his hotel to see the ginormous Chicago World's Fair of 1893. For this re-read, I listened to the audio version of the book. I don't know if because I'm 12 years smarter, or maybe my ears read better than my eyes, but I got SO MUCH more out of the book this time. In fact, while I came away with a vast quantity of information about the time period, the engineering marvels, the politics and personalities of the Fair, I also came away a bit disappointed. I wish that Larson had done a better job typing the two threads - serial killer and World's Fair - together. He didn't, at least not well enough for my taste, and it feels like a missed opportunity. Without stronger connections, the serial killer story feels a bit gratuitous, the gory bits meant to entice readers who might otherwise shy away from a book with a lot of engineering and historical discussions. My other disappointment is one of taste. Whenever possible, I like books about history to strongly provide the larger context of time and place. This fair took place thirty years after the end of the Civil War, an event that touched every family in America, yet I don't remember that ever being mentioned. There is plenty about Chicago's architecture and wealthy citizens, but very little about the average person who attended the Fair. Given his thesis about the drama and importance of the event, I would have also liked to have seen evidence of its impact in the following decades. But I am a crazy nutbag when it comes to history, we all know that. While I have those quibbles with some of his narrative choices, Larson is an extraordinary researcher and writer. I recommend the book! ...more So, there\u2019s this scene in David Fincher's Zodiac in which Jake Gyllenhaal's character, Robert Graysmith, visits the home of someone he believes to be the famed Zodiac killer. As Graysmith ventures down in the suspect\u2019s basement, there\u2019s this sense of dread that\u2019s instilled in the viewer as they wonder if Graysmith will make it out alive. As Fincher lets the tension escalate and the claustrophobia rise, Graysmith grows frantic and escapes the first chance he gets. There have been movies in the pa So, there\u2019s this scene in David Fincher's Zodiac in which Jake Gyllenhaal's character, Robert Graysmith, visits the home of someone he believes to be the famed Zodiac killer. As Graysmith ventures down in the suspect\u2019s basement, there\u2019s this sense of dread that\u2019s instilled in the viewer as they wonder if Graysmith will make it out alive. As Fincher lets the tension escalate and the claustrophobia rise, Graysmith grows frantic and escapes the first chance he gets. There have been movies in the past and while I\u2019m sure there will be movies yet to be made that will implore this same strategy in an effort to frighten it\u2019s audience but until now, I haven\u2019t read a book that gave me that same feeling. Until now. H.H. Holmes was an evil man. The con-man who terrorized wayward women in the city of Chicago during the turn of the 20th century is one of history\u2019s greatest villains. Notorious for being America\u2019s first serial killer, Holmes brutally murdered his way through the Windy City during its rise to prominence. However, due to the unfortunate timing of his killing spree, Holmes will be forever linked to what was to be considered Chicago\u2019s finest moment, the 1893 World\u2019s Colombian Exposition. Fortunately for Holmes, Chicago was a hole. The city was known for its numerous missing persons, its polluted river and overpopulation - something that attracted a man like Holmes and his insatiable appetite for murder. The perception of Chicago needed to change. So, in an effort to add some prestige, W.H. Burnham and his pals lobbied hard to host a world\u2019s fair. They desperately wanted something to compete with Europe, most notably Paris, and the recently constructed Eiffel Tower. They felt a grand display of cultures from all over the globe would win the hearts of the masses. The construction of the fair was difficult to say the least. The fair was coming at a time when the country was financially unstable. Several banks foreclosed, their respective executives were committing suicide and those that provided the funds to Burnham and his group felt consistent doubt and worry over the fair\u2019s progress. The location was less than perfect and Burnham's associates and employees seemed to court sickness and death on a regular basis. While the two events, Holmes killing spree and the fair, are forever intertwined with one another, I felt the consistent switching back and forth between the two tales hindered each story line rather than enhancing the book as a whole. Larson\u2019s writing of Burnham's failures and struggles were riveting at times but his heavy handed description of the types of plants and shrubs that made up the fairgrounds caused me to just zone out. The same cannot be said about Holmes. The way that man's mind worked was extraordinary. He was leaps and bounds ahead of what can only be described as a hopelessly inept police force. Because of the sordid state of the city, Holmes literally got away with murder on a regular basis. People often vanished and with Holmes' standing in the community, his question of guilt was often overlooked. He was a cunning son of a bitch to say the least. He always had an excuse, alibi or a reasonable explanation to cover his tracks. Even when he was finally apprehended, he stumped the detectives continuously. It seemed as if you could not convince even Holmes himself that he was guilty. Overall, this book is one hell of an achievement. Larson is an extraordinary talent; taking a genre like historical non-fiction and writing it similarly to an engaging novel. I can\u2019t recommend this enough. While I had some trouble making it through a lot of the heavier architecture-influenced chapters, Larson always made sure to remind you just how seemingly impossible this whole affair was. ...more I understand why readers like this book. I honestly do. The subject matter is fascinating. Erik Larson focuses on the \"White City\" (the challenging creation and ultimate success of the 1893 World's Fair) and the \"Black City\" (the gruesome serial killings of H.H. \"The Devil Is In Me\" Holmes and, to a lesser extent, the assassination of mayor Carter Henry Harrison, Sr. by the deranged Patrick Eugene Prendergast), two sides of the city of Chicago at the sunset of the nineteenth century. I learned q I understand why readers like this book. I honestly do. The subject matter is fascinating. Erik Larson focuses on the \"White City\" (the challenging creation and ultimate success of the 1893 World's Fair) and the \"Black City\" (the gruesome serial killings of H.H. \"The Devil Is In Me\" Holmes and, to a lesser extent, the assassination of mayor Carter Henry Harrison, Sr. by the deranged Patrick Eugene Prendergast), two sides of the city of Chicago at the sunset of the nineteenth century. I learned quite a lot. I was captivated. I was also horribly annoyed. Constantly. Erik Larson's writing style is maddening. He presents several parallel stories that on their own are absorbing and compelling, but he constantly interrupts these narratives with either 1) ridiculous flights of fiction (the body language of a given individual, or his/her thoughts at a given moment - things Larson could not possibly know even with the most diligent of research) or 2) outrageous purple prose (oh, the overwrought metaphors, and oh, his eyes had never been so blue) to heap melodrama on top of drama. Larson is his own worst enemy. He desperately needed an editor to tell him when to stop. Imagine watching a serious and challenging documentary that at random times is interrupted and derailed by the most cheap, inauthentic, and shamefully hammy \"dramatic reenactments\" possible. That's what it felt like reading this book. Rating The Devil in the White City is difficult for me, because I'm quite glad I read it (even when I wanted to throw it across the room, which was frequently), and I'd like to read more rigorous and serious works on the subjects to which it introduced me. I'm not wholly convinced of the solidity of Larson's research - just his passing couple of paragraphs on Jack the Ripper contained at least one glaring factual error, and slips such as confusing Chicago's Magnificent Mile with the Miracle Mile in Los Angeles appeared throughout - but I am convinced that these stories of creation and destruction, genius and madness are compelling complements and foils to one another, and it makes good sense to see them in opposition and relation to each other. I'm glad I experienced this book. And I'm very glad that experience is over. ...more The architect Daniel Hudson Burnham directed the building of the 1893 World's Fair in Chicago. The neoclassical buildings were transformed into a White City after they were spray painted white and illuminated with 200,000 incandescent bulbs. Burnham used the skills of the best architects in the country, along with the work of Frederick Law Olmstead for the landscape, in the creation of the World's Fair. Geroge Washington Gale Ferris developed the first \"Ferris Wheel\"--a huge wheel that would car The architect Daniel Hudson Burnham directed the building of the 1893 World's Fair in Chicago. The neoclassical buildings were transformed into a White City after they were spray painted white and illuminated with 200,000 incandescent bulbs. Burnham used the skills of the best architects in the country, along with the work of Frederick Law Olmstead for the landscape, in the creation of the World's Fair. Geroge Washington Gale Ferris developed the first \"Ferris Wheel\"--a huge wheel that would carry 2,160 people at a time into the Chicago sky overlooking the fair and Lake Michigan. In contrast to the beauty of the White City, a psychopath was building the World's Fair Hotel nearby. It was fitted with soundproof rooms with gas lines, a hidden chute that led to a dissection area in the basement, and a coffin-sized kiln. Herman Webster Mudgett, who went by the alias Dr H.H. Holmes in honor of the detective Sherlock Holmes, was a handsome, charming man who lured his victims to the hotel. He often employed them in his pharmacy downstairs. Most of his victims were beautiful women traveling alone from small towns, looking for excitement and employment in the big city. Another contrast to the magical quality of the White City was the economic downturn at that time. After the fair closed, thousands of people were left homeless and unemployed on the streets of Chicago. This was a well-written non-fiction book that read like a novel. Larson knows how to end his chapters on a note of suspense. Between the many setbacks in the building of the fair, and the horrible events involving Holmes, the story always had something happening to keep my interest. A movie is in the planning stages with Leonardo Di Caprio playing Dr H.H. Holmes, directed by Martin Scorsese. ...more This book fails in nearly every way. It fails ... ... as History -- The book's cover categorizes Eric Larson 's The Devil in the White City as History. And Larson takes pains to claim this category in his note, \"Evils Imminent,\" placing his book squarely in the realm of fact: \"However strange or macabre some of the following events seem,\" he writes, \"this is not a work of fiction (xi).\" But this is not an history book. While it does relate a skeletal story of historical events, there is little of This book fails in nearly every way. It fails ... ... as History -- The book's cover categorizes Eric Larson 's The Devil in the White City as History. And Larson takes pains to claim this category in his note, \"Evils Imminent,\" placing his book squarely in the realm of fact: \"However strange or macabre some of the following events seem,\" he writes, \"this is not a work of fiction (xi).\" But this is not an history book. While it does relate a skeletal story of historical events, there is little of the historian in Larson's writing, and too much unfounded speculation -- by far -- for this book to be considered \"history.\" Much of Larson's work is apocryphal, fictional in nature, making it difficult for a careful and considerate reader to trust that much of anything is fact. ... as True Crime -- There is not enough of the \"Devil\" or his crimes in Devil in the White City to categorize this as a \"true crime\" story, and there is nowhere near enough for it to win the Edgar Award for Best Fact Crime , which it did. Perhaps a quarter of the book is dedicated to the murders of Herman Mudgett, a.k.a. Dr. H.H. Holmes (with a tenth of the book being given over to a madman named Pendergrast who murdered Chicago's mayor), and Larson's work on Holmes' murders is both terribly biased and markedly lazy. It is clear that Larson decided from the first that Dr. Holmes was the personification of evil, the titular \"Devil,\" and that bias colours most of his passages about Holmes. But it is also clear that little effort was put into offering any new scholarship into the discussion of Holmes' crimes. What we get is of Larson's imagination; it's the stuff of novelization not history. ... as Fiction -- So how does this work as a novel, then? Not at all, unfortunately, although it is clear from the first page that a novel is precisely what Larson should be writing with this material. A modern day, crime focused James Michener could have turned this \"true life\" tale into a creepy meditation on the way we perceive \"crimes\" in our society, making use of the juxtaposition between the murders committed by Holmes and the death and hardship committed by the building of the World's Columbian Exposition. Or he could have simply written a rousing, potboiling, historical fiction to entertain and scare. He chose to write gossip, instead; it was an unfortunate choice. ... as Gossip -- Even as gossip, however, Larson's book fails. His HLN style journalism -- which smacks of Nancy Grace and Dr. Drew -- fails through a lack of immediacy. Who cares about all these long dead architects and cultural icons and forgotten politicians and serial killers? Dilettantes and experts in those fields, perhaps, but those who actually do care about these figures don't give a damn about the gossip. They are seeking real knowledge and insight into these long dead figures. Gossip, though, is where Larson appears most comfortable, but it is ill advised in a book of this nature. ... as Capitalist Propaganda -- Another thread of this book is Larson's ham fisted attempts to beat the greatness (and goodness) of Capitalism into our brains. Herein, I think, lies Larson's motivation for entering the crimes of H.H. Holmes into a book that is really about the construction of the World's Columbian Exposition: by contrasting the unequivocal \"evil\" of a serial killer with the construction of the fair, Larson thinks he can make us see the \"good\" in the enterprise of building the exposition. There is no subtlety involved, no attempt to hide his purpose. Larson lays out his propaganda in plain view. Perhaps it works for some readers (presumably it would be no problem at all for the Republicans amongst us). Not for me, though. Death, starvation, homelessness, anti-Union violence, racism, Orientalism, greed, gluttony, and hubris combine in the building of a city that would only last one year, and this during one of the worst financial crises the capitalist world has experienced. It is precisely the sort of undertaking Saddam Hussein engaged in with his palaces while his people starved. We used his actions as a rationalization for war, then marvel in the splendour of the \"architectural achievement\" of Burnham and his cronies when their \"achievement\" is on our shores. I despair at shit like this. There is one way in which Devil in the White City succeeds, however. It succeeds as an elaborate treatment for an HBO mini-series produced by Tom Hanks for Martin Scorsese. Writing those words made me slip over to IMDb, where I discovered that a movie is, indeed, in production, with Leonardo Dicaprio taking the roles of producer and possibly even serial killer H.H. Holmes. I am not surprised. A film of dubious accuracy but visceral entertainment is precisely what Devil in the White City should be. Popcorn rightly beckons. If I had expected that going into this book I may have enjoyed it more. ...more<+++>The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America</+++>", "Title": "The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America"},
