{"Comments": "You know you\u2019ve been in school too long when you write a vampire novel in which Dracula\u2019s ultimate threat is to force his victims to catalog his extensive library of antique books. On the other hand, after finishing <+++>The Historian</+++> ,<---M> and its detailed Vlad the Impaler research</---M>, I\u2019m willing to consider that threat as akin to impalement. If Kostova\u2019s references to Henry James did not reveal her as an admirer of his, then its sprawling prose, vague plot, and sexually confused characters would have. Whi You know you\u2019ve been in school too long when you write a vampire novel in which Dracula\u2019s ultimate threat is to force his victims to catalog his extensive library of antique books. On the other hand, after finishing <+++>The Historian</+++> , and its detailed Vlad the Impaler research, I\u2019m willing to consider that threat as akin to impalement. If Kostova\u2019s references to Henry James did not reveal her as an admirer of his, then its sprawling prose, vague plot, and sexually confused characters would have. While imitation of Henry James is not enough in itself to make me wish undeath on an author, it sucked the blood out of this adventure. Kostova writes The Historian in epistolary form, primarily through letters from a father historian to a daughter (presumably) historian. The greater part of the book, however, focused not on this father-daughter team\u2019s desperate search for family member(s) and Dracula, but on the obscure history of Vlad Tepes, the historical figure who inspired the legend of Dracula, and on the geography of Romania, Bulgaria, and Turkey during the Cold War. If the Travel Channel\u2122 was ever looking for someone to host Istanbul on a Budget 1980 or Passport to Monasteries Behind the Iron Curtain, Kostova would be their woman. Whether the history and geography is true or not, the sheer volume of trivia padding this book and the work it had to have taken to put it all together is confounding. Even with the impressive research, this story is Scooby Doo with no Scooby Snacks. Dracula would have gotten away with it, too, if it weren\u2019t for those pesky historians! Dracula and his henchman, the \u201cevil librarian,\u201d don\u2019t plague society or cause panic. Rather, they make appearances in goofy disguises in libraries and cafes to give books and other clues to especially promising young historians, inspiring the recipients to begin insatiable quests to find out more about this Dracula fellow. Then, Dracula inevitably shows up again to slap people around a little, so that the historians will be too afraid to continue their research. Once, after giving a historian a book to start him on his vampire studies, Dracula disguises himself as \u201ca stranger\u201d and buys that historian a drink called, \u201cwhimsically, amnesia.\u201d Bet you can\u2019t guess what that does - all that research down the tubes! Stop the mind games, Dracula! Not to be deterred by Dracula\u2019s or the Evil Librarian\u2019s threats, the historians continue to stalk their prey until the reader would pity Dracula (if he weren\u2019t annoying), because he is ultimately only trying to build a book collection and a gang of faithful research assistants. In painful detail, Paul, the central historian/vampire slayer, as he tells his daughter the story of his search for Dracula, also tells of falling in love with her \u201cmannish\u201d mother, Helen. The consistent descriptions of our heroine as \u201cmanly\u201d only hint at Paul\u2019s sexual confusion, which becomes most apparent when he meets his rival, Helen\u2019s ex-boyfriend, a Soviet spy. Paul describes this meeting to his daughter in chapter 38. \u201c\u2019What a pleasure to meet you,\u2019 [ex-boyfriend] said, giving me a smile that illuminated his fine features. He was taller than I, with thick brown hair and the confident posture of a man who loves his own virility \u2013 he would have been magnificent on horseback, riding across the plains with herds of sheep, I thought.\u201d Except for the word \u201cvirility,\u201d I don\u2019t think I\u2019ll ever get tired of reading that description. If the author of the quote had been a man, I would encourage him to openly write gay characters rather than making his characters marry to hide their sexuality. From the author\u2019s picture on the dust jacket, I see that she is Madame Bovary, so the description fits. It is true that because of the vagueness of the plot and the epistolary structure, entire chapters and characters could be cut from this book without losing any story. Beyond its rambling descriptions, however, The Historian flounders as a vampire story. Psychological conflict adds complexity to most vampire stories, as in Bram Stoker\u2019s Dracula , when Mina, formerly a protagonist, becomes bloodthirsty. Thirst is the most basic human experience, and all vampires started as humans. Theoretically, thirst (or, more broadly, desire) could become evil in anyone; and, therefore, of all monsters we most easily identify with vampires. In The Historian , however, I am left with the impression that if those historians left poor Dracula alone, he would have just kept collecting books. It was ultimately the research and study, not Dracula himself, that took the historians away from their loved ones and almost destroyed them. From where I\u2019m reading, The Historian is solid evidence of what most high school kids could tell you: too much study is both boring and potentially bad for your health. ...more This has got to be one of the most disappointing books I've read in a long time. Although the descriptions of the various eastern European cities are often pretty and atmospheric, my frustration with this book won't let me mark it above one star. It starts out well; very interesting and suspenseful for about the first 100 pages or so. But as you read it, the book just gets more and more ridiculous. It's about 600 900(!) pages long (which is way, way too long) and I urge anyone reading this book t This has got to be one of the most disappointing books I've read in a long time. Although the descriptions of the various eastern European cities are often pretty and atmospheric, my frustration with this book won't let me mark it above one star. It starts out well; very interesting and suspenseful for about the first 100 pages or so. But as you read it, the book just gets more and more ridiculous. It's about 600 900(!) pages long (which is way, way too long) and I urge anyone reading this book to just put it down or read one of the one-star spoiler reviews on Amazon and be done with it. Or better yet, ignore the book entirely. What bothered me most? I'll try to make a list of my top issues: -- Coincidences. *Everything* in this book happens by some remarkable coincidences. One here or there would be fine, even interesting, but it's as if the author decided 'here's how the plot should go', and couldn't be bothered to come up with realistic reasons for characters to do things and just wanted to move them from one point to another. One of the characters even ends up with amnesia. Amnesia! Like from a bad soap opera! I mean, are you kidding? So stuff just happens.<---F> For no reason</---F>. Which leads me to... -- Stuff just happens. For no reason. Such as characters getting together romantically, well, just because. No build up, no logic, they just do because I guess they're both there and they have nothing better to do. Which leads me to... -- The characters themselves. Completely non-existent. One reviewer on amazon said that if you take any random section of dialogue from the book, it is impossible to tell which character it came from. So true! The author is completely incapable of creating realistic, breathing characters that are different from each other. Instead they all talk the same, they all have the same reactions, the same motives, hook up randomly in the same way, etc. There is *nothing* believable about these people. And for some reason, they all write unbelievably detailed letters. Which leads me to... -- Unbelievably detailed letters! Now I have read a number of great books that use the format of letter writing to convey the plot. But this? Ridiculous. Not only are these letters insanely long, but they are insanely detailed as well, creating yet another reason why the book and the characters are completely unbelievable. If that's how the author wanted to write this, why did she do the letter thing at all? Which brings me to my final big gripe (I've leaving the small ones out)... -- The ending. OMG if you value your sanity, do not, I repeat DO NOT finish this book. Because if you are sane, you will get to the ending and go, 'What? What?? Are you f-n kidding me?? That's the stupidest thing I've ever heard!' No joke. The ending, especially after 600 pages, has got to be the biggest let down of any major novel in recent years. I won't spoil it here (however badly I want to vent about it), but I swear to you: it will cause you physical agony when you read it. In short: bad book, promises a lot and delivers none of it. Ignore it, read something else. ...more This novel is better than I had any anticipation of it being. I\u2019d seen it among a friend\u2019s luggage then later saw it at the library. Having just come off three weeks of nineteenth century novelists, I thought, Oh, something light would be a nice change. After all, I thought. Vampires. The book is about vampires. And not just any vampire, but the mack daddy himself, Dracula, the real Vlad the Impaler, who turns out to be the undead. Light reading. Sure. Six hundred and fifty pages of vampires that This novel is better than I had any anticipation of it being. I\u2019d seen it among a friend\u2019s luggage then later saw it at the library. Having just come off three weeks of nineteenth century novelists, I thought, Oh, something light would be a nice change. After all, I thought. Vampires. The book is about vampires. And not just any vampire, but the mack daddy himself, Dracula, the real Vlad the Impaler, who turns out to be the undead. Light reading. Sure. Six hundred and fifty pages of vampires that is less concerned with torn pulsing arteries than with the minutiae of historical research. And much like Dracula , to which Kostova\u2019 novel The Historian owes an incalculable debt (more so than many another vampire novel), the novel is constructed as a story within a story within a story. One of the novel\u2019s central conceits is how much of the story is told in the form of letters written by the young female narrator\u2019s father. As this sum surpasses well over 300 pages in type, obvious plausibility considerations of scale arise, but only if you stop to think about it long enough. In the middle of the father Paul\u2019s letters, he is handed a parcel of letters written by his mentor, Bartolomeo Rossi which are also substantially sized documents. As their stories take them further and further into Eastern and Central Europe, the texts begin to shelter one inside the other inside the other like Russian nesting dolls. As the narrator reads the letters of her father, Paul tells of visiting a Bulgarian scholar who reads to him from a manuscript which includes in its history yet another person\u2019s lengthy transcription of in fact one more person\u2019s reminisces about Vlad Tepes. This kind of layered story is most definitely part of Kostova\u2019s novel\u2019s sensibility, and it\u2019s rather an amusing in-joke. What\u2019s impressive about all this is how Kostova weaves three sizable narratives together, alternating time and place and narrative voice. We first are in Amsterdam of 1972 as our young narrator, a sixteen year old school girl, tells of discovering a mysterious volume in her diplomat father\u2019s office and later of her journey to France. Part of what sends her out are the letters she is reading left to her by her father after he vanishes, telling of his travels and investigations into the Dracula legend in the 1950s Eastern Bloc. He is launched across the Soviet empire as well as through the byzantine mazes of Istanbul\u2019s streets and libraries trying to discover what became of his missing mentor. Along the way as we try to find Rossi, we are told of his 1930s investigations into the Dracula legend in Romania. On top of that, there are vast stores of erudition on fifteenth century monasteries, the cultural divide betwixt Romanians and Transylvanians, the Walechian court, medieval church politics, central European folk songs, Bulgarian religious rituals based around old pagan traditions, historian cataloging and research methodology, and the overlapping history of Central Europe with its shifting rulers of Ottomans, the Orthodox church and its tiny fiefdoms, and the Soviet Union. For, thinking about it as an historian, the undead would have lived through an impressive array of eras. Consider this rather late passage: The \u201cChronicle\u201d of Zacharias is known through two manuscripts, Athos 1480 and R.VII.132; the latter is also referred to as the \u201cPatriarchal Version.\u201d Athos 1480, a quarto manuscript in a single semiunical hand, is house in the library at Rila Monastery in Bulgaria, where it was discovered in 1923\u2026This original manuscript was probably housed in the Zographou library until at least 1814, since it is mentioned by title in a bibliography of fifteenth- and sixteenth-century manuscripts at Zographou dating from that year. It resurfaced in Bulgaria in 1923, when the Bulgarian historian Atanas Angelov discovered it hidden in the cover of an eighteenth-century folio treatise on the life of Saint George (Georgi 1364.21) in the library at Rila Monastery\u2026.The second and only other known copy or version of the Zacharias \u201cChronicle\u201d \u2014 R.VII.132 or the \u201cPatriarchal Version\u201d \u2014 is housed at the library of the Oecumenical Patriarchate in Constantinople and has been paleographically dated to the mid- or late sixteenth century. Not your average vampire book, eh? And that\u2019s one of the funny things about reading this novel. At times, you have to remind yourself that this is a book about vampires. Not that Kostova won\u2019t remind you at some point along the way herself, but that there is so much enjoyable writing throughout, so much fun detective work, that at times the supernatural element seems almost decidedly secondary. Kostova knows well enough to keep the monsters off the stage as long as possible, merely make suggestive shadows lurk here and there on the periphery and affect a rather creepy atmosphere. After a point there are a hair too many overt murders that sap some of the menace, surprisingly, as they make the gathering darkness all too palpably concrete. Then there are a number of vampire staples that might turn up normally anyway. A bat flitters across a night sky. In the woods near a ruin, a wolf approaches the edge of the firelight. After sitting for some time near a railing cobby with webs, Helen Rossi, daughter of Paul\u2019s mentor and mother to the unnamed young narrator, ends up with an enormous spider on her back. These stand-ins for the vampire are pleasantly unsettling without being accompanied by shrieking violins. What propels each of the main characters, the young girl (whose name we never discover), her father Paul, and his mentor, Rossi, is the discovery of a mysterious old book among their own, a book with one printed page, that of a dragon with a banner reading \u201cDrakulya\u201d while the rest of the pages are blank. Throughout the novel we find that each character who has become obsessed with the legend of Vlad Tepes possesses a similar book that came to them under curious circumstances. Why and how these volumes keep turning up is one of the novel's mysteries an it's one of Kostova's rather clever conclusions in her own well-thought out realization of the character of Dracula. And there is throughout the book an enormous cast of characters, not merely just historical personages, but various researchers and students and librarians and bureaucrats and all of them are well-drawn, interesting, and fully fleshed. We know, of course, from the very beginning, before the narrator even informs us, that when her father Paul speaks of a young beauty named Helen who he meets while trying to track down his missing mentor, that this will be the overtly absent mother of the young narrator. And, of course, since she is absent, we know there is a reason for that, and of course, as this is a horror novel, we know she is dead \u2014 or worse. Kostova manages to keep even that particularly familiar angle surprising. The author is at least a thorough-going plotter and she paces everything beautifully, setting up revelations with periodic sparks. All three story lines converge some hundred pages out from the novel\u2019s end and from there the story picks up and aims squarely toward its conclusion. The actual climax of the novel as our heroes close in on Dracula and his daytime resting place seems rather rushed, ending just all abruptly as if Kostova had opted just to skip overt dramatics, which feels a bit of a cheat, though she does make up for this lack of action with a final pages reversal that is as unsettling as it is quiet. ...more January 3, 2014 Dear Khanh of 2006, I am your older, wiser self. Many things will happen in the years that have elapsed before you become the me of today. You will fall in love. You will break hearts. You will get your heart broken (karma's a bitch). You will change jobs. You will graduate from college. Most importantly, you will become more intelligent, you will learn the art of advanced thinking because really, all college teaches you is how to get good grades by regurgitating textbooks. When you January 3, 2014 Dear Khanh of 2006, I am your older, wiser self. Many things will happen in the years that have elapsed before you become the me of today. You will fall in love. You will break hearts. You will get your heart broken (karma's a bitch). You will change jobs. You will graduate from college. Most importantly, you will become more intelligent, you will learn the art of advanced thinking because really, all college teaches you is how to get good grades by regurgitating textbooks. When you are older, as you begin to read critically, you will learn to appreciate a good book, and you will be able to identify literary bullshit when you see it. That's all this book is. Literary bullshit. This book is dramatic rubbish, artistic gibberish. It is nothing more than a glorified travel brochure. Seriously, younger Khanh, what the fuck were you thinking when you enjoyed this book? You thought it was sweet, you thought it was romantic, you thought the writing was beautiful. Really? Really? Between 2006 and 2014, you will be able to identify purple prose when you see it. You will realize that flowery prose is not good writing. Correlation does not imply causation, and good writing does not necessarily encompass a good plot. You will be able to recognize a deus ex fucking machina when you see it. Oh, I know that you learned about deus ex machina in AP English. You learned a lot of things in English class. You learned about symbolism, foreshadowing, all that good shit, but really, it does you no fucking good unless you are able to identify it when you see it. And clearly, you did not see the tremendous, horrifying, abominable (that's a hyperbole) overuse of deus ex fucking machina upon your first perusal of this book. You will realize that a good epistolary book involving several different characters should have the characters be actually fucking distinct. Did you seriously think this book was realistic in any way, when you cannot distinguish between the narrative of an old man, an older man, and that of a girl as she grows from her early teens? Did you ever for a moment think upon the complete absurdity of the letters and the storytelling, particularly when said letters and spoken stories were told in excruciating minutiae. Is that realistic in any way? In your letters, have you ever once mentioned the trivialities of your evening routine, particularly when it made absolutely no relevance whatsoever to whatever point you were trying to make? While I waited I poked up the fire, added another log, set out two glasses, and surveyed my desk. My study also served me for a sitting room, and I made sure it was kept as orderly and comfortable as the solidity of its nineteenth-century furnishings demanded. I had completed a great deal of work that afternoon, supped off a plate brought up to me at six o\u2019clock, and then cleared the last of my papers. When you tell a story to your friends, have you ever once mentioned the drumming of your fingertips when you're trying to tell a story of---supposedly---the utmost importance? I drummed my fingers on the desktop. The clock in my study seemed to be ticking unusually loudly tonight, and the urban half darkness seemed too still behind my venetian blinds. I know you are young and stupid, but you are not that stupid. Please don't tell me that this book fooled you in any way. Did you seriously buy into the letters and the \"stories?\" Fucking letters. Fucking stories. Bullshit attempts at letters and storytelling and an epistolary timeline that is everything overwrought, all that is overdramatic and completely devoid of sense and rationality. I would beg for a little bit of sensationalism over sense, because overall, the plot of this story is entirely lacking in anything remotely resembling fascination, anything that would captivate and hold the imagination rather than lulls it to sleep . You endured over 700 pages of this balderdash for a story that doesn't even bring any sense of excitement. Vlad Tepes holds no danger. He is the equivalent of a grown-up high school bully. Once powerful, he no longer holds any amount of thrall. The only remnants of his power are the few close hangers on, the few douchebags foolish enough to cling onto the remains of a long-diminished power. That high school bully might scare a few odd child here and there, with his posturing, with his scowls. You, as an adult, are no longer afraid. You, as an adult, should know better than to buy into this book's aesthetically pleasing, inconsequential claptrap. Reluctantly yours, An older, a more erudite, a considerably more critical - Khanh ...more This is actually the second time I've read this book. For a first novel, it is outstanding. I was completely engrossed in the story. I really love history and the whole Dracula lore. I thought it was a great mix of both. It added a lot of suspense that made me read it with the lights on. I think I read it in about four days, I just couldn't put it down. I will say this though, if you are not really into history or researching, I would skip it. If you are wanting to read it just because it has to This is actually the second time I've read this book. For a first novel, it is outstanding. I was completely engrossed in the story. I really love history and the whole Dracula lore. I thought it was a great mix of both. It added a lot of suspense that made me read it with the lights on. I think I read it in about four days, I just couldn't put it down. I will say this though, if you are not really into history or researching, I would skip it. If you are wanting to read it just because it has to do with Dracula, I would pick a much smaller book. However, I just love history and research (duh, I work in a library) so it was right up my alley. Actually, I'm doing a little research on it myself. I did read some of the comments on Amazon.com and wasn't exactly surprised by the comments. It was either a \"love it\" or \"hate it\" book. That is why I throw my caution out there. Basically, people who didn't enjoy it were out for a Dracula story and thought the history was \"a drag\". I'm really into history so I thought it was pretty damn good. I will say I did discover a few historical inaccuracies, but I think I'll let them fly for now. ;) All in all, a good read, especially for a rainy day. ...more Am I destined for some kind of literary hell if I say I wish Dan Brown would rewrite this story with the spark and intensity of the Da Vinci Code? I think I read some review here on GoodReads that called this a book to be conquered. You know, one where after a time you feel so invested that you MUST finish it, you must defeat the book, you will NOT give up, no matter how much you are suffering. Whoever said that about Kostova's The Historian, I salute you. I kept telling my friends I was reading \" Am I destined for some kind of literary hell if I say I wish Dan Brown would rewrite this story with the spark and intensity of the Da Vinci Code? I think I read some review here on GoodReads that called this a book to be conquered. You know, one where after a time you feel so invested that you MUST finish it, you must defeat the book, you will NOT give up, no matter how much you are suffering. Whoever said that about Kostova's The Historian, I salute you. I kept telling my friends I was reading \"a book about hunting for Dracula through libraries across Europe,\" and that it was about as exciting as it sounds. I also needed to conquer this book because I wanted to figure out why so many people, good friends of mine included, loved this book. Maybe the long, hard, snoozy slog, occasionally punctuated by some good old fashioned undead suspense every hundred pages or so, would have a really terrific ending that made it all worth it. Clearly Kostova is very influenced by Gothic and Victorian writers like Stoker, so maybe this book would have a grand payoff of an ending to merit the praise and best-sellerness. Instead, Dracula is a librarian. Sigh. Just as boring as it sounds. It wasn't completely terrible - many charicterizations are off the charts for their specificity and originality. The thing about the books with the Drakulya print was really intriguing. Except that's not enough. The Drakulya books, which could be counted as a premise, with the intrinsic map that is hammered on as a significant discovery, amount to nothing. The map doesn't even figure into the conclusion! Not even with a character saying, \"we were totally wrong about that map.\" So while I enjoyed parts of this book, and had many moments when I couldn't put it down (the alternate to finding it incredibly tedious, with no in-between), I think its merits don't outweigh its shortcomings. I wish I'd read an Actual Gothic novel - maybe even by Bram Stoker - instead of wasting way too long on this frustrating book. ...more Tentatively, my hand crept towards the mouse. What dark and unholy specter could be contained in other people's reviews of <---A>Elizabeth Kostova</---A>'s The Historian ? I was filled with passive-voiced dread as the link was clicked by me. I was horrified to read: xdragonlady 's review: \"My main problem with the book being that the author told the tale from so many different points of view, but that they were each told in first person without giving the reader any notice as to who was telling the tale. [...] I Tentatively, my hand crept towards the mouse. What dark and unholy specter could be contained in other people's reviews of Elizabeth Kostova's The Historian ? I was filled with passive-voiced dread as the link was clicked by me. I was horrified to read: xdragonlady 's review: \"My main problem with the book being that the author told the tale from so many different points of view, but that they were each told in first person without giving the reader any notice as to who was telling the tale. [...] I don't understand why this book is on the bestseller's list.\" I was aghast! Could the novel I had just read really have been a confounding multi-tiered multiple first-person narrative with lack-luster voices which the author clearly mistook for a clever attempt at recreating a sense of research? With much hesitation, I read on. \"I find myself thinking of my mother's comment after she read the Da Vinci Code, that it was ok but she knew many other books that were written much better that should be best sellers. I wish Brien had read the book at the same time as I did, I would liked to have talked to him about it.\" Blast! I too wondered what xdragonladyx's mother and friend Brien would have thought! If only she could have included a detailed transcription of their own reviews! I may now never know if either of them viewed The Historian as an attempt to capitalize on the fad of Dan Brown-style mysteries and the vampire genre! Suddenly, a wayward link caught my eye and I clicked. Silver's review: \"I think I read some review here on GoodReads that called this a book to be conquered. You know, one where after a time you feel so invested that you MUST finish it, you must defeat the book, you will NOT give up, no matter how much you are suffering. Whoever said that about Kostova's The Historian, I salute you.\" As I read this thing about someone reading something else somewhere, I was reminded of my own refusal to allow the dry 600+ page tome to defeat me, and that by the time I had completed the flatulent ending, not only had I conquered it, but impaled it still screaming onto a ten-foot stake. It was dead and without the risk of ever returning to life, so that no one would ever have to read it again. You're welcome. ...more Wow, was I ever disappointed in this one! I initially read the dust jacket on one of my many excursions to the book store and was very excited. It had been a long time since I read a really good scary story with vampires. The dust jacket alluded to sleepless nights filled with suspense and horror. I eagerly bought my very own copy and returned home to crawl into bed and begin reading this tale of terror. Okay, so sometimes books have to start slow. You've got to get the setting right, introduce Wow, was I ever disappointed in this one! I initially read the dust jacket on one of my many excursions to the book store and was very excited. It had been a long time since I read a really good scary story with vampires. The dust jacket alluded to sleepless nights filled with suspense and horror. I eagerly bought my very own copy and returned home to crawl into bed and begin reading this tale of terror. Okay, so sometimes books have to start slow. You've got to get the setting right, introduce the characters, outline the plot.... all of this takes a lot of hard work, and sometimes hours of research. While the research is necessary (especially for a story involving an actual historical figure), it is NOT, I repeat: NOT, a requirement to include every scrap of research as part of the novel itself. Oh, how angry I got when the story finally started getting good, Ms. Kostova would interject a 20-30 page dissertation on the history of the church in the times of Vlad the Impaler! It did nothing to further the plot, and only served to make me feel like I was back in college studying for an exam. Where's the entertainment? Where are the sleepless nights I was promised? When do we get introduced to Dracula?????? Don't worry, he's somewhere in those 686 pages, but if you blink you might miss him! The research goes so far as to include a number of \"fake\" source documents. Had these \"documents\" been merely mentioned and perhaps summarized, I would be all for it. Heck, I AM an archaeologist and historian, remember? But NOOOOO. The author had to create these \"documents\" and then insert each one WORD-FOR-WORD. One even takes an entire chapter. UGH. Don't get me wrong, I'm all about well-researched books. In fact, a well-researched and planned book only brings credibility to your story. However, The Historian proved to be nothing more than an over-zealous researcher's attempt to create a story from a subject that she is obviously passionate about. The voluminous research is a real turn-off. I don't want to read a vampire story and have to sit through a hundred \"mountainous countryside\" descriptions. There are mountians. The Carpathians. I get it. Get on with the story. Unfortunately, she never does. ...more This book is impossible to resist. It has fairly leapt to the top shelf, where it's nestled down deep with my all time favourites. I confess to being initially reluctant to delve into this story, I mean who really needs another campy, vampire tale? Lucky for me I put these feelings aside long enough to read the first chapter after which there was no looking back. Step into the pages and begin an eerie, haunted, hypnotic adventure thoroughly saturated in ancient history and wondrous, exotic, old This book is impossible to resist. It has fairly leapt to the top shelf, where it's nestled down deep with my all time favourites. I confess to being initially reluctant to delve into this story, I mean who really needs another campy, vampire tale? Lucky for me I put these feelings aside long enough to read the first chapter after which there was no looking back. Step into the pages and begin an eerie, haunted, hypnotic adventure thoroughly saturated in ancient history and wondrous, exotic, old European churches, monasteries and libraries that are positively brimming with ancient parchment and long, forgotten maps and books. Kostova's historical tracking of the real Vlad Drakulya is flawless and she is able to describe with a chilling, atmospheric eye for detail, the many settings as well as the political climate in which this story unfolds. A full speed ahead rich, historical thriller with enough gothic images, cultural folklore, ancient crypts and creaking stairs that it is sure to raise the hair on the back of your neck and no doubt a compulsive, insatiable interest in this age old tale. This truly is GREAT fiction! ...more It has been some time since I read this, so my recollections may not be that accurate. I tend to make these decisions (do I like or not like a book?) viscerally, rather than by formula. But I figured that any book that merited my little used \"pissed me off\" category, deserved an explanation. The Historian: Kostova sets her book partly in the 70s, partly in history, and she tries to write in a flowery language, like the great masters of novel from the 19th century- but to me, she really just comes It has been some time since I read this, so my recollections may not be that accurate. I tend to make these decisions (do I like or not like a book?) viscerally, rather than by formula. But I figured that any book that merited my little used \"pissed me off\" category, deserved an explanation. The Historian: Kostova sets her book partly in the 70s, partly in history, and she tries to write in a flowery language, like the great masters of novel from the 19th century- but to me, she really just comes off sounding pretentious, overwrought and juvenile. Yes, her character is supposed to be young, but the writing can be elegant, even with a young and immature subject. In addition, everyone in the whole story speaks with the same voice. Many times I had to backtrack because I'd lost the thread of who was speaking. Then, she writes about Vlad, Dracula, attempting to add new lore to the story, but never really gives us any surprises. At the most \"suspenseful\" moments, I often found myself feeling irritatingly amused at the author's attempt to create tension. One moment she is in fear of her life, and the next, she's what? sipping tea? And I don't recall that Kostova mixes her scenes well. She creates tension, but then breaks it too soon, or holds back from stretching it out, or drops into the completely mundane, instead of just pulling back a little. Even her main character doesn't seem to be driven by anything except one-upmanship, the desire to solve this mystery that her father couldn't, not for anyone's sake except proving that she's a better historian? Lastly, the stories of Dracula are supposed to be horrific, but also reluctantly romantic. She rarely rises above twittering, and it was never at any junction a book that I devoured. Mostly I just got through it, only to discover at the very end, when everything is supposedly wrapped up, with no foreshadowing, she tacks on a \"oh by the way, he could still be alive! muahahaha!\" Okay then. To comment specifically, I'd probably have to reread, or at least review, the book, which I'm not willing to do when there are still so many thousands of brilliantly written stories out there that I haven't discovered yet. ...more This book reminded me of the DaVinci code in some ways, but was much more interesting and better written. All of the research and historical documents were fascinating. I was especially interested in the subject matter, because it was about Vlad \u0162epe\u015f, the Wallachian (Romanian) prince, who Bram Stoker popularized as Dracula. (Not because I'm interested in vampires, but because I served my mission in Romania and was interested in Vlad himself. Evil and terrible as he was, the Romanians actually a This book reminded me of the DaVinci code in some ways, but was much more interesting and better written. All of the research and historical documents were fascinating. I was especially interested in the subject matter, because it was about Vlad \u0162epe\u015f, the Wallachian (Romanian) prince, who Bram Stoker popularized as Dracula. (Not because I'm interested in vampires, but because I served my mission in Romania and was interested in Vlad himself. Evil and terrible as he was, the Romanians actually are very proud of him because he saved their country from the Turks. They do not like it at all that he is construed to be Dracula. His father was called Vlad Dracul, which is where that name comes from. Dracul is the Romanian word for the dragon.) The Historian goes with the belief that he is definitely a Vampire, and that he is still alive. Or \"undead\" as it were. There are three different stories weaved together into one about three people who are trying to find Dracula: The narrator, who is telling her story from her viewpoint as a 16 year old girl in 1972, her father, whose story is told through letters to his daughter as well as conversations about his experiences in 1954 and finally, Professor Rossi, who was the father's advisor in college. Rossi's story is also told through letters and conversations and occurred in 1931. Every once in a while it is difficult to figure out which story you are reading as they jump around so much, but after the first few chapters you start to get a feel for it and it seemed really ingenious the way she chose to combine the three stories. I loved reading so much about the history of Eastern Europe during the rule of the Ottomans as well as during Communist times. I don't know how much of it is actually based in fact, as that line blurs when we talk of vampirism and Vlad \u0162epe\u015f, but I know much of it was. The author is obviously an excellent researcher and really knew her stuff. I was slightly annoyed by the fact that the Romanian language wasn't always written accurately (I guess she didn't research that quite enough). It was almost always missing diacritical markings, except for in place names. Her Hungarian seemed to have all the diacritical markings in it, and I am unsure of the Bulgarian, since she used our alphabet rather than cyrillic. So I was just bugged by that, although I know most people wouldn't even care! :) It also bothered me that we never know the name of the narrator. Her father never refers to her by name, and neither does anyone else it seems. We know she was named for \"Helen's mother\" but \"Helen's mother\" is another character whose name we never actually hear. I don't know why this bothered me so much, but it did. I guess we get to make up her name, and since we know it was Romanian, I choose Anca. :) The epilogue was a little unsettling, and the final resolution of the story seems comical when I think about it now, but it was completely fitting and totally acceptable in the framework of the story. I did have to chuckle every time I read the phrase \"evil librarian.\" It is not a quick read...took me nearly a week to get through, but definitely enjoyable. Kostova has a lovely, almost Victorian style of writing. Very descriptive. The book also scared me out of my wits at times. Really good though. Loved it, despite all my above annoyances. ...more Hmmm. I read this at work and one of the builders in the break room looked over the top of his copy of the Daily Star and asked if this was some sort of \"how to\" book (he understood that I was an archaeologist and thus interpreted The Historian to be some sort of quick guide to well, being a historian). And I sighed my deepest sigh yet, as another tiny particle of my soul curled up, died and flaked off and floated away into the ether. Obviously if I was a vampire I wouldn't have to worry about the Hmmm. I read this at work and one of the builders in the break room looked over the top of his copy of the Daily Star and asked if this was some sort of \"how to\" book (he understood that I was an archaeologist and thus interpreted The Historian to be some sort of quick guide to well, being a historian). And I sighed my deepest sigh yet, as another tiny particle of my soul curled up, died and flaked off and floated away into the ether. Obviously if I was a vampire I wouldn't have to worry about the condition of my soul because that would be long gone, along with worries about iron supplements and dental hygiene. Maybe not a bad thing in the long run. So Vlad Tepes, Prince, Impaler and legendary ruler of Wallachia, not to mention possible embodiment of Bram Stoker's villainous Count Dracula is a living breathing actual person who has taken to sending out teasers in the form of esoteric historic folios in order to lure unto himself a librarian, historian or archivist for nefarious purposes related to archiving. As every goodreader knows, book collecting is an addiction and so imagine having over 500 years in which to collect and hoard piles of papery goodness? Vlad is not averse to snacking on his bibliophilic staff either and this got me to thinking... what would be the tastiest of all professions? The conclusions I have drawn are based largely upon my perceptions of what each job actually entails. If you perform any of these professions then feel free to chip in and argue the pros/cons of your own tastiness. 1. Chef: Generally a little plump, well-fed, uses only the finest ingredients and are subtly flavoured after years of rubbing things in butter, slurping down sherry, red wine, bouille bases with herbs and shallots. Lets face it these people are basically self basting here. The only potential downside might be the long term exposure to garlic. 2. Athlete: Perfectly honed in their well muscled meaty suits and filled with more vitamins and minerals than you can shake a stick at plus with the added bonus of always having their blood pumping extra loudly due to all the exertion so they're easy to find. 3. Lingerie model: scantily clad and used to drapping themselves over furniture in a way which might be appealing to vampires of a more traditional frame of mind. Exposed neck area for easy biting. 4. Dentists: Probably taste minty fresh and who is to say that a vampire might not need a scrape and polish now and again? However, I quite clearly digress. The Historian moves like a river, the edges (first and last section) swirl and spin and blood sucker you into a promising plot, however the centre has a sluggish meander where the waters get a little muddied. The story follows three generations of the same family and little by little their own history is shown to be interwoven with that of Vlad the Impalers. The narrative travels between Amsterdam, America, Oxford, France, Istanbul, Bulgaria and Romania so there are pleny of colourful scenery changes as the plot unfolds. I did enjoy this, all digression and prevarication aside and Elizabeth Kostova can write and is clearly an excellent historian in her own right, which is what pushed me on to the end without feeling the need to drive a stake through my own heart. ...more The Historian By Elizabeth Kostova Kostova received two million dollars for this debut novel, an almost unheard of sum for an unknown writer, but I\u2019m sure it went a long way in reimbursing her expenses for the research that would have been required to write The Historian. Make no mistake, this is a lush and beautiful book, each passage is fleshed out in detail reminiscent of the grand medieval cathedrals and libraries in which it takes place. The reader is drawn into the past quickly and presented The Historian By Elizabeth Kostova Kostova received two million dollars for this debut novel, an almost unheard of sum for an unknown writer, but I\u2019m sure it went a long way in reimbursing her expenses for the research that would have been required to write The Historian. Make no mistake, this is a lush and beautiful book, each passage is fleshed out in detail reminiscent of the grand medieval cathedrals and libraries in which it takes place. The reader is drawn into the past quickly and presented with the vast knowledge Ms. Kostova has of the Ottoman Empire, Eastern European folklore, and the legend of Dracula. At it\u2019s heart, The Historian, is the story of a young man led to believe his missing professor has been whisked away by the evil Vlad Tpesch, Dracula. Paul xxxx is drawn into a world where history and myth walk hand in hand. He receives a mysterious book, blank save for the chilling emblem of a dragon at the very center. When he shows this book to his mentor, Professor Rossi, it sets into motion a chain of events that lead him from his university in London, to Constantinople, Romania, Bulgaria and eventually the Transylvania province of Walachia. Along the way he meets a mysterious Romanian woman also searching for Rossi, a noble Turkish Scholar, various priests and numerous villains. His steps are dogged by bureaucrats, as well as the undead, making this a long and complicated search not only for Rossi but for Dracula as well. Most vampire tales rely on cloaked figures, fangs gleaming, jumping out of dark alleys or taking the shape of a giant bat to prey on their innocent victims. The Historian has none of this melodramatic buildup. It plods along, gathering information about the real Walachian Prince, taunting not only our hero and his female companion but the reader with some menace and a few appearance of an undead librarian but for the most part the real blood sucking is minimal. I\u2019m a history buff so the background information and the search for Dracula is something I find interesting. It has the feel of a research paper, but an intriguing research paper. However, I\u2019m also a fan of vampire stories, so the slow methodical trudge and lack of actual sightings of the fiend are something I find irksome. It drags in too many places, and goes off on historical tangents that a scary story really shouldn\u2019t. I can\u2019t decide it the historical aspects and the amazing depth they provide help or hinder this book. It just seems to me that she could have tightened the whole thing up and gotten to the heart of the matter and the stake through its heart, sooner. I found The Historian to be rich and luxurious - kind of like a mink coat, unfortunately the pacing and unrelenting narrative make it about as useful as a mink coat in Florida. Still, I wouldn\u2019t mind reading the next novel Ms. Kostova writes, maybe a biography of one of the historical characters in this book because she has a wonderful ability to bring her characters to life. My only hope is that Ms. Kostova spent her two million dollar advance wisely, hopefully not on a mink coat. ...more (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.) So first, a disclosure: I actually received a free used copy of Elizabeth Kostova's 2005 modern vampire tale The Historian unexpectedly in the mail one day, from author Akmal Shebl at the same time he sent in his own book Prisoners in Paradise for review, not as a bribe I think but rather an example o (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.) So first, a disclosure: I actually received a free used copy of Elizabeth Kostova's 2005 modern vampire tale The Historian unexpectedly in the mail one day, from author Akmal Shebl at the same time he sent in his own book Prisoners in Paradise for review, not as a bribe I think but rather an example of what his own book is similar to. (My review of Shebl's book will be coming in a few weeks, by the way.) And I didn't mind receiving the book at all, to tell you the truth, because The Historian is a good book for me to review here at CCLaP; runaway bestseller, soon-to-be major motion picture, this was not only Kostova's very first novel but one that also garnered her a $2 million advance, an almost unheard-of amount even for established veteran authors. And indeed, now that I've read it myself, I can safely call it a faithful reproduction of a typical Victorian novel (also known as a \"Romantic\" novel), albeit one with a real \"DaVinci Code\" flavor to it, and can see why the \"American Idol\" crowd has been going so nuts about it. And in fact, because of the \"CCLaP 100\" series of \"classics\" essays I've been doing here this year, I've ended up reading quite a bit of Victorian literature, so can tell you exactly what it is about Kostova's novel that reminds me so much of the style... --Extremely overwritten, flowery prose, one that sometimes literally uses entire chapters to serve only as elaborate introductions to the next chapters. (Hint: If you're reading this yourself for the first time, and ever come across the phrase \"And then they stepped off the train at [fill in the blank],\" you can safely skip the entire manuscript until the phrase \"And then he said, 'Shall I continue my story?'\") --A sweeping global scope to the story, but with descriptions of cities that are no more insightful than simply describing a photograph of the place. --A cheap moment of inconsequential dread added to the end of each chapter, mostly as a reminder to unsophisticated readers that the chapter is ending. (\"And then she noticed a man menacingly staring at her on the train platform. Or was he? Maybe he was! Or perhaps he wasn't! And then f-ck it, she went to the hotel, end of chapter 13.\") --A superstitious, occult-based storyline that at all times pushes the limits of common sense: in this case, a literal retelling of Bram Stoker's 1897 Dracula , only more historical in nature, more expansive in setting, and with a fair dose of Indiana-Jones-style adventure thrown in. --A personal style known as \"epistolary,\" in which the story is told not through an omniscient narrator and traditional dialogue, but instead through a series of written documents such as letters, newspaper clippings, diary entries and more. --And finally, a strong whiff of cheese to the entire thing, the exact kind of dumbed-down so-called \"historical thriller\" that all the Bubbas of the world mistake for a true story and great literature, the kind of book that makes many intellectuals sadly shake their heads and say, \"Well, there goes a little more American culture and sophistication, right down the f-cking drain.\" Now, all that said, this does not make Victorian-style literature like The Historian necessarily bad! It just means that you need to have a certain attitude going into it, a certain natural love for the elements mentioned above and a certain tolerance for extremely purple prose. The Historian is not exactly a bad read, although truthfully I can't exactly call it a good novel either; it is in fact a curious modern document from an older age, a novel that feels like it was written 150 years ago even though it was actually less than five. I myself found it difficult to even finish, simply because I grow tired of overwritten prose and gaping plot-holes very easily; but there are millions of others who are passionate fans, and they can't be entirely discounted in my review just because I in particular didn't care for it. It gets a limited recommendation from me today, although to be truthful I'm now looking forward to reading through Shebl's novel as well, to see how it compares. Out of 10: 6.8 , or 8.3 for fans of Victorian/Romantic thrillers ...more THE HISTORIAN BY ELIZABETH KOSTOVA: Welcome to a retelling of Dracula for the twenty-first century, only think much better and more interesting; less of the weak and pitiful women and demanding men; more history and research. Elizabeth Kostova, while no doubt being a very well off person who went to the best schools for writing, has nevertheless spent a long time researching and writing The Historian with the resulting book being little about vampires and undead and more about books and history THE HISTORIAN BY ELIZABETH KOSTOVA: Welcome to a retelling of Dracula for the twenty-first century, only think much better and more interesting; less of the weak and pitiful women and demanding men; more history and research. Elizabeth Kostova, while no doubt being a very well off person who went to the best schools for writing, has nevertheless spent a long time researching and writing The Historian with the resulting book being little about vampires and undead and more about books and history and researching and following the trail; its an academic adventure novel. Our narrator is a young girl in her teens traveling through Europe, following the letters of her father from his travels in the 1950s, who is following the letters of his mentor from his travels in the 1930s. While most of the book is in letter form \u2013 with speech quotes framing just about every sentence \u2013 Kostova forgoes the accuracy of the letter form and, like Bram Stoker in Dracula, makes the letters part of the novel with action, emotion, and character reaction \u2013 attributes that would not usually be in a letter, but for the sake of this book, they need to be. The premise is that Dracula, or Drakulya, better known as Vlad the Impaler, who was killed in battle in the fifteenth century is still alive and well in the twentieth century. The three story lines of the narrator, her father, and his professor, all have an event in common: they each received a copy of an ancient book with an elaborate woodcut of a dragon, the symbol and emblem of Drakulya. Each of them travel throughout the many cities of Europe tracking Dracula and tracking each other through their letters; clearly Kostova herself traveled to each of this cities, for the book is partially a travel log of Europe, written in exquisite detail. At the end of the book, when each person finally confronts Dracula in their time, it is revealed that Dracula himself is a lover of history and books and has been building up his library for hundreds of years with the hope of having every old book and important piece of writing in history at his finger tips, all he needs is a librarian to maintain it, of course they need to be turned undead so that their duties as librarian will last as long as Dracula is alive. The professor is turned and when this is discovered, is staked, while the narrator\u2019s father leaves due to the loss of his wife \u2013 the narrator\u2019s mother \u2013 thinking her dead. It is at the very end when the narrator finds Dracula, she also finds her father on the trail, and then her mother who all play a part in killing Dracula once and for all; the family united at last. While this review may make The Historian seem trivial and \u201ctied in a big red bow,\u201d the author clearly worked very hard and long in her research of books and places; the result is a lengthy tome that takes you on a long journey through a well-described Europe, through old documents and books, to an adversary we have read and written about for hundreds of years. For more book reviews, and author interviews, go to BookBanter . ...more I really wanted to like this book but God is it boring as hell. I hate not finishing a book but I just can't waste one more minute reading something akin to watching paint dry. I kept waiting for the story to take off and for something, anything, exciting to happen. This felt like an exercise in cold war geography and a self-indulgent author letting us know how smart she is and how much research she'd done. Who cares?! The premise for this book was really intriguing but the story gets lost in pa I really wanted to like this book but God is it boring as hell. I hate not finishing a book but I just can't waste one more minute reading something akin to watching paint dry. I kept waiting for the story to take off and for something, anything, exciting to happen. This felt like an exercise in cold war geography and a self-indulgent author letting us know how smart she is and how much research she'd done. Who cares?! The premise for this book was really intriguing but the story gets lost in page after page of unrelenting descriptions and cryptic dialogue. I didn\u2019t care about these characters and found them frustratingly rigid and emotionless. This was just too much history and geography and not enough action for me. The first few pages include quote after quote from reviews raving about how \u201cthrilling\u201d and \u201cgripping\u201d and \u201cterrifying\u201d it is. Excuse me? It\u2019s so boring I could hardly stay awake while reading it. This book is going straight to the used book store. ...more The Historian is a standalone historical fiction novel written by Elizabeth Kostova . Yes, it has vampires in it and no, it's not classified as paranormal. Why? Because of Ms. Kostova's attention to historical accuracy, specifically regarding the historical figure of Vlad the Impaler rather than the mythical (and paranormal) Dracula the Vampire. In an online interview , Ms. Kostova stated, \u201cI took a real historical mystery, the question of where Vlad the Impaler is buried\u2013or what became of his rem The Historian is a standalone historical fiction novel written by Elizabeth Kostova . Yes, it has vampires in it and no, it's not classified as paranormal. Why? Because of Ms. Kostova's attention to historical accuracy, specifically regarding the historical figure of Vlad the Impaler rather than the mythical (and paranormal) Dracula the Vampire. In an online interview , Ms. Kostova stated, \u201cI took a real historical mystery, the question of where Vlad the Impaler is buried\u2013or what became of his remains\u2013and spun out a fictional speculation from there. The other historical events in the book are real ones, carefully researched, although the twentieth-century characters are fictional.\u201d Personally, I loved how layered this book is. Multiple stories build upon each other in many exotic locations bridging across several centuries. It's a very rich reading experience full of culture, history, adventure, and mystery. This was a beast to read in terms of length, but I was never bored and I remained eager to pick up wherever I left off. If you enjoy historical thrillers, specifically those written in a similar style to Dan Brown , you'll love The Historian . Check it out! My favorite quote: \u201cFor all his attention to my historical education, my father had neglected to tell me this: history\u2019s terrible moments were real. I understand now, decades later, that he could never have told me. Only history itself can convince you of such a truth. And once you\u2019ve seen that truth\u2014really seen it\u2014you can\u2019t look away.\u201d A bit of trivia: It took Elizabeth Kostova ten years to write The Historian . This was the first debut novel to ever debut at #1 on the New York Times bestseller list.\u00a0Ms. Kostova was initially inspired by her own childhood memories of her father, who was a professor, telling her stories about Dracula. ...more If there were negative stars, I would give them to this book. OMG, words fail me. On second thought..they don't. Let me describe the ways this book sucked. First off, it sucked because it COULD have been a brilliant book....its IN there...somewhere in the 642 pages. I would venture to say....its about 300 pages too long. At page 201 into the book, it was still plodding along unmercifully. They way it is written, in first person, is way too choppy. Some chapters are being told by the \"dad\" characht If there were negative stars, I would give them to this book. OMG, words fail me. On second thought..they don't. Let me describe the ways this book sucked. First off, it sucked because it COULD have been a brilliant book....its IN there...somewhere in the 642 pages. I would venture to say....its about 300 pages too long. At page 201 into the book, it was still plodding along unmercifully. They way it is written, in first person, is way too choppy. Some chapters are being told by the \"dad\" charachter- Paul. Some are being told by the \"daughter\" charachter. So, the story is about vampires/Drakula and how a professor- Rossi - researched to discover more about an empty book with a dragon picture in it. Paul received the same kind of book, as do others woven into the story. The daughter finds papers and letters on her fathers bookshelf, and gets him to start telling his story. There is a cast of charachters in the book that finally converge in the last chapter or two - about 300 pages too late if you ask me, to help the final story unfold. But at this point, you are expecting something grand and wonderful. Its just a big disappointment. I finished it thinking...THATS IT??. That is what I wasted 3 nights of reading on. Remember the classic christmas movie - A Christmas Story - when Ralphie gets the Secret Decoder Ring in the mail and decodes the secret message \"Drink your Ovaltine\" and says, \"Thats it?!? A CRUMMY COMMERCIAL\" That is how you will feel when you finish this Crap of a Novel. You will feel cheated. Its a shame too - it has all the makings of a great story I think, but it just wasn't executed properly. I don't mind LONG books either - some of my favorites run in the 800 page realm. But this one just plodded and plodded along. YOu kept getting to the next chapter thinking...surely it will pick up now. It NEVER DOES. ...more A plodding, contrived, poorly written mess of a book about three generations of historians researching the Dracula legend. It spans centuries, countries and strains all credulity. The multi-narrative structure is ambitious (and, of course, is a nod to Stoker's classic novel), but Kostova doesn't pull it off. All her characters - unless they have an obvious accent - sound alike and there's far too much exposition and repetition. The final quarter (it's a looong book, about as long as Vlad's life) i A plodding, contrived, poorly written mess of a book about three generations of historians researching the Dracula legend. It spans centuries, countries and strains all credulity. The multi-narrative structure is ambitious (and, of course, is a nod to Stoker's classic novel), but Kostova doesn't pull it off. All her characters - unless they have an obvious accent - sound alike and there's far too much exposition and repetition. The final quarter (it's a looong book, about as long as Vlad's life) is suspenseful and atmospheric, and obviously she's done a lot of research into how historians gather facts. But if you'll pardon the pun, boy does this book suck. ...more Fourth time for me to read this gothic novel about Dracula (both the historical figure and the vampire) and those hunting him, and boy does it still amaze me! And so despite all its happy coincidences, Dracula\u2019s somewhat lackluster motivation to do what it is he does (won\u2019t elaborate; no spoilers) and a few small plot holes here and there, I\u2019ve decided to upgrade it to 5 stars. This novel is so well written and so riveting that I can well turn a blind eye to its flaws and just let myself be blown Fourth time for me to read this gothic novel about Dracula (both the historical figure and the vampire) and those hunting him, and boy does it still amaze me! And so despite all its happy coincidences, Dracula\u2019s somewhat lackluster motivation to do what it is he does (won\u2019t elaborate; no spoilers) and a few small plot holes here and there, I\u2019ve decided to upgrade it to 5 stars. This novel is so well written and so riveting that I can well turn a blind eye to its flaws and just let myself be blown away again and again. Kostova has penned here the perfect armchair traveling book\u2013\u2013also known as travelogue\u2013\u2013taking us from the States to England, the Netherlands, Greece, France, Turkey, Romania, Hungary, etc., all that using different time frames and POVs and with the ease of a master storyteller who knows exactly when it is time to move the plot forward and when to take it slow and share with us readers bits and pieces of all the research she did to write her book. After all, it\u2019s called The Historian for a reason. And last but not the least, Kostova's prose is absolutely beautiful\u2013\u2013at times old-fashioned verging on the purple (but in a good way); at others downright effective and straight to the point. Again, perfect balance equals perfect rhythm. Equals a perfect story. Well, almost perfect... Anyway, if you're into big fat Gothic books and you fancy yourself an armchair traveler, then don\u2019t hesitate to pick this one up. You won't be disappointed. You're in for a treat! OLIVIER DELAYE Author of the SEBASTEN OF ATLANTIS series ...more This novel would have done well to have large parts of the first half culled. Although the first half is pleasant enough as a travelogue, especially the Eastern European scenery and impressions of Budapest that we are treated to, it soon began to feel tedious and I was pretty bored by the time the book began to pick up again. The last third is the best part of the book, so do try and push through until you get there. The biggest aspect I found to complain about, is that I'd expected a bit more sol This novel would have done well to have large parts of the first half culled. Although the first half is pleasant enough as a travelogue, especially the Eastern European scenery and impressions of Budapest that we are treated to, it soon began to feel tedious and I was pretty bored by the time the book began to pick up again. The last third is the best part of the book, so do try and push through until you get there. The biggest aspect I found to complain about, is that I'd expected a bit more solid history from it, taking in account the title and the premise of the book. I found the few scraps and tidbits the author threw at us about Count Dracul/ Vlad Tepes rather unsatisfying. I'd learned nothing from this book about Vlad that Wikipedia hadn't already told me. I enjoyed the polished, almost Victorian prose, which seemed in character with the setting of the book, though of course not all modern readers enjoy such a detached style. I also rather enjoyed the sub-plot about the protagonist's parents. I'd say the blurb is rather deceptive, though, because exciting, nailbiting stuff this is not. ...more This is my favorite book of ALL time from any genre! At its core this is a book about Drakulya, about his history and his impact on those that knew him and those that have hunted the truth about him for centuries. The novel opens with an unnamed female voice informing the reader in the year 2008 that she's about to tell the story of what happened to her thirty years before. The story is mostly about her father Paul, a historian turned diplomat, and his search for Dracula, Vlad the Impaler. This n This is my favorite book of ALL time from any genre! At its core this is a book about Drakulya, about his history and his impact on those that knew him and those that have hunted the truth about him for centuries. The novel opens with an unnamed female voice informing the reader in the year 2008 that she's about to tell the story of what happened to her thirty years before. The story is mostly about her father Paul, a historian turned diplomat, and his search for Dracula, Vlad the Impaler. This narrator, raised alone by her father after her mother's death, finds a book in her father's study when she was 16. The book has no text, but at its center, is a woodcut image of a dragon carrying a banner with the single word Drakulya. In addition, she finds letters dated from 1930, and we get to read them and thus become part of the fabulous journey to find out where the letters came from and what they mean. Ms. Kostova had me at mysterious book and Dracula. Soon Paul is searching a library in Istanbul when he finds a map that suggests that Vlad's grave is not where conventional historical wisdom says it is, but he can't tell from the map where it might actually be. An encounter with an evil and mysterious stranger makes him decide that it's a research topic that he should drop. He doesn't drop it and he takes us on an atmospheric and historical jaunt all over Europe. Of course Dracula being Dracula he and his undead minions will stop at nothing to protect their secrets, including the location of Vlad the Impaler's grave. For me this book reads like a travelogue, a paean to history, and a love story, with the horror of unspeakable evil and the race to save loved ones the glue that binds it all together. ...more Don't let the 2 star rating fool you - I would still recommend this book for fun. POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD. It strikes me that scholars and graduate students (even sexier!) are now the go-to heroes for this continuing genre of suspenseful historical/mystery/magic quests. Da Vinci Code blah blah blah. That's right, to save the world, one must be a careful reader, and in this book, it struck me as especially humorous that in his infinite evil, Dracula infiltrates the minds of those who can truly com Don't let the 2 star rating fool you - I would still recommend this book for fun. POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD. It strikes me that scholars and graduate students (even sexier!) are now the go-to heroes for this continuing genre of suspenseful historical/mystery/magic quests. Da Vinci Code blah blah blah. That's right, to save the world, one must be a careful reader, and in this book, it struck me as especially humorous that in his infinite evil, Dracula infiltrates the minds of those who can truly commit nefarious deeds: They will rip cards out of the card catalogue! They will confiscate your library privileges! They will you stop you from, gasp, reading! In short, they will stop you from entering the dangerous world of nerddom, you nerd. And if you should succumb in your valiant scholarly efforts, beware.....or you might become.....A LIBRARIAN IN HELL. Yes, indeed, a fate worse than death. So Dracula tries to lure the most promising scholars to him, as what he as always desired, above even power and awe, is a well-catalogued library of rare documents? So he distributes books to said scholars, warns them copiously when they *do* attempt to follow these clues to their logical conclusion, but then secretly desires them to find his lair anyway? So that he can then freak out and move it? He both covets and resists their cleverness? Doesn't quite sit right with me as the \"grand reveal.\" Just read the Stoker classic! Sooo delightful, far more blood-curdling, far more intriguing to probe for deeper symbolism. This Dracula seems fairly bland in comparison, as do its principal characters. I can only hope that although I am not a historian, nor pursuing a PhD, there may be room for a toiling MFA student in one of these labyrinthine plots. \"I can't make it out,\" she said, squinting at the closely-typed pages, hand trembling. A line of concentration appeared in her forehead. \"Wait! I think - I think it says that I must write a two-page scene where one character expounds entirely in monologue! Damn you, you diabolical genius, damn you!\" Perhaps the evil genius of myth will cultivate an interest in the literary arts? Can't wait. ...more Tale focuses on whether Dracula truly still exists in vampire/undead form. Most of the tale is told through backstory and letters. In itself, this is quite a feat for a novel. People who appreciate History as well as a mystery with esoteric/intellectual sprinklings will most likely find this tale appealing. There is a great deal of focus on academic types and their personalities as well, so, be sure you want to spend time with such characters. I found it quite entertaining, and, even though I sk Tale focuses on whether Dracula truly still exists in vampire/undead form. Most of the tale is told through backstory and letters. In itself, this is quite a feat for a novel. People who appreciate History as well as a mystery with esoteric/intellectual sprinklings will most likely find this tale appealing. There is a great deal of focus on academic types and their personalities as well, so, be sure you want to spend time with such characters. I found it quite entertaining, and, even though I skimmed certain parts, I kept going all the way through tne novel. That's the impatient side of me, I suppose. Heh. I found the climatic ending a bit off but I won't say more so that spoilers aren't given. Worthy of best seller ranking though, especially if you appreciate historical details. Enjoy. CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B to B plus; STORY/PLOTTING: B minus; DRACULA MYTHOLOGY: B minus; HISTORICAL INPUT: B plus to A minus; WHEN READ: 2005 (revised review 11/10/2012); OVERALL GRADE: B. (view spoiler) [ So yeaaaah Dracula turned out to be a total wuss. I mean, he wasn't prepared and got shot and died. How did he live as long as he did? Derp, derp, derp. All that build up for hundreds upon hundreds of pages and he turns out to be a wussbag. Derp much? (hide spoiler) ] ...more I'm disappointed. I wanted to love this book soooo much. I love vampire stories, and I loved Dracula, with its long expository letters and journal entries. I love the idea of historians being drafted by Dracula. But I didn't love this book. Why? Well, let me tell you: 1)I was annoyed by the fact that we never learn the name of the main character. No, I didn't think that was intriguing. I thought it was annoying. 2) The historic research was dry dry dry, and I dreaded seeing section after section w I'm disappointed. I wanted to love this book soooo much. I love vampire stories, and I loved Dracula, with its long expository letters and journal entries. I love the idea of historians being drafted by Dracula. But I didn't love this book. Why? Well, let me tell you: 1)I was annoyed by the fact that we never learn the name of the main character. No, I didn't think that was intriguing. I thought it was annoying. 2) The historic research was dry dry dry, and I dreaded seeing section after section where I was wading through made-up primary sources, instead of having the characters boil it down for me, the reader. Way to slow the plot down! 3)The plot was choppy, opaque, and convoluted in timeline. Instead of building tension with sustained action, it lost the sense of menace by jumping around so much. What did I want ? I wanted more scenes like the one on the train, where the young unnamed girl is alone in a train car with a stranger, a stranger radiating menace even though she can't see his face, which is hidden behind a newspaper. Is it Dracula? What is he going to do? That was just about the only time I actually felt like I was reading a horror story, and felt fear for the characters. But that fizzled out to nothing, too. Because Dracula did nothing . Oh, sure, later he brings them to his lair and they talk. Great. Yawn. ...more a modern take on the Dracula story. This reminded me of The Da Vinci Code in some ways. The story was a pageturner with lots of atmosphere and exotic settings, danger and romance mixed with the secrets of history. But at the end, I found myself thinking, \"What a minute. That plot made no sense.\" Dracula's motivation is sketchy at best, and the choices the characters make just don't ring true, in my opinion. That's all I can say without giving away the plot. Read it and see what you think. I was a modern take on the Dracula story. This reminded me of The Da Vinci Code in some ways. The story was a pageturner with lots of atmosphere and exotic settings, danger and romance mixed with the secrets of history. But at the end, I found myself thinking, \"What a minute. That plot made no sense.\" Dracula's motivation is sketchy at best, and the choices the characters make just don't ring true, in my opinion. That's all I can say without giving away the plot. Read it and see what you think. I was willing to suspend belief for the whole length of the book. Only afterwards did I feel somewhat cheated. My advice: enjoy it, and don't think about the inconsistencies once you're done. ...more Read on the WondrousBooks blog. *** First read on June 29th. This review is written after my third time reading the book. *** As I mentioned in a recent review of mine, I visited Romania last month and I had an extremely strong desire to re-read my favourite Dracula books so I returned to Stoker's Dracula and, of course, Elizabeth Kostova's The Historian , which has to be my favourite vampire book ever and I don't see another book taking its place anytime soon. My history with The Historian is a l Read on the WondrousBooks blog. *** First read on June 29th. This review is written after my third time reading the book. *** As I mentioned in a recent review of mine, I visited Romania last month and I had an extremely strong desire to re-read my favourite Dracula books so I returned to Stoker's Dracula and, of course, Elizabeth Kostova's The Historian , which has to be my favourite vampire book ever and I don't see another book taking its place anytime soon. My history with The Historian is a long and complicated one. My English teacher turned out to be an acquaintance of the author and could have met her around the time Kostova was writing this exact book, though I don't know that for a fact. It rarely happens so that I don't remember what made me get a certain book, but I honestly have no recollection as to how I decided to buy The Historian . But still, one of the best purchases in my life(and I've actually bought it twice since someone stole my first copy of it). What's amazing about this book is that it might be a book on the supernatural and it might have a great role in the book, but ultimately, it's not a mind-numbing fantasy and instead the story takes the shape of a very believable and thorough investigation, which almost makes you feel like it's completely credible and realistic. At certain points, while reading the book, I've felt like it's the absolutely true account of events which really happened. My favourite thing about The Historian, which might or might not surprise you,\u00a0is\u00a0the travel and the geography. The \u00a0way the author describes places, the places she describes and her undeniable passion for travel is enough to spark the flame of wanderlust inside the reader. Kostova\u00a0talks about\u00a0my own country, Bulgaria, in a way which makes me want to pack my bags and start exploring. I almost feel ashamed that she has an appreciation for\u00a0Bulgaria which I don't think I've ever had. I was sort of sad that she doesn't talk about my own new passion, Romania, as excitedly as she does about Bulgaria, Turkey or\u00a0France. For a book focused on the story of Dracula, she certainly goes for locations more unconventional than the expected Romania. My second favourite thing were the characters and just how vivid they are. They are not perfect, not even that good-looking by the authors description - instead they are realistic and flawed. And since I think that I'm very pedantic myself, I love that some of the characters were, too. I highly appreciated the layers upon layers of story-telling in the book. There was one particular chapter in which the daughter is narrating the narrative of her father about the narrative of Professor Rossi about somebody else's narration. I've also always admired authors who include all types of means to diversify the story, those being letters, notes, books, conversations and so on. If there is\u00a0one thing that I'm not fond of, it is\u00a0how replaceable the secondary characters are. It's natural that in an adventure like this one many characters will come and go, but I felt like some of them were too big a part of the story and yet completely forgotten in the aftermath. Such were Helen's mother and aunt, Hugh, Stoichev, even Turgut Bora. And speaking of Professor Bora, I would absolutely love to read a novel about his secret organization, set in Turkey. That would be absolutely marvelous! Considering how fantastic Kostova is when talking about travel and foreign countries, I think I'd learn so many new and amazing things about Turkey if she wrote about it. Last, but not least, I was fascinated by the many little facts that Kostova mentions and to which you might not have paid the needed attention but if you consider them out of context, they are certainly wonderful. Aside from facts about the world or certain countries/cities, the information she provides about Dracula himself is amazing and so is her literary knowledge. Sadly, it would take me quite a long time to comb through the books mentioned in The Historian and find which ones are real and which ones made up in order to contribute to the story. But it would be a real pleasure to find many of the real sources and especially ones that have anything to do with the history of the Balkans, since it has been an interest of mine for a while and especially since I started learning more about Turkey and gained a new perspective through which to appreciate the good side of the Ottoman Empire, even though I fully realize that there was a bad one, too. Though many of you might not find this book as realistic and as wise as you might want it to be, it's actually a great mix of everything that I, personally, appreciate in literature: it's entertaining, it's thought-provoking, it's informative on more than one level, and especially when it comes to history, it's well-written, the characters are well-built and it keeps you on edge. Keep in mind that I think life is entirely too short to re-read books and yet I've read this one three times. As many of my favourite books, it gives you something different each time you read it. For example, the first time I read it, I was mainly fascinated by the Dracula story, after that I remember paying a lot of attention to the travel element in the book the second time I read it. Now that I have a full-blown obsession with the Balkans, I'm in awe with the descriptions and the history. ...more I really need to give a reason that this book received such a low rating from me. First, I want to say that the majority of the book was amazing. It was mysterious, and the descriptions were vivid. the author pulled me totally into this story. This book is over 700 pages and I rushed through it to find out what the great mystery was...only to be disappointed by a silly and rushed ending. I felt so robbed that I was tempted to throw this massive book but knew it would do a great deal of damage. I I really need to give a reason that this book received such a low rating from me. First, I want to say that the majority of the book was amazing. It was mysterious, and the descriptions were vivid. the author pulled me totally into this story. This book is over 700 pages and I rushed through it to find out what the great mystery was...only to be disappointed by a silly and rushed ending. I felt so robbed that I was tempted to throw this massive book but knew it would do a great deal of damage. I feel like the author just grew weary of her story, and finding no convenient way to end the book, she just kinda stopped. :) The mysterious reason for the entire story, the tension building clue that was sought after in Turkey and Romania (described in such great detail that I feel that I have been there) was so ridiculous to be absurd. My mouth fell open when the truth was revealed for the evil, dastardly plan of an ages old vampire was so innocuous as to be a blasphemy against the dracula myth. ...more What if Vlad \u0162epe\u015f, Prince of Wallachia and the inspiration for Bram Stoker's Dracula, really was a vampire? Elizabeth Kostova's The Historian explores this question, following three different characters: in the 1930s, <---C>Bartholomew Rossi</---C>, an English professor, in the 1950s, his prot\u00e9g\u00e9 Paul, and in the 1970s, Paul's unnamed daughter. Mysterious books and Rossi's disappearance spark a hunt for Dracula's tomb that crisscrosses Europe and lets Kostova use a buttload of historical and geographical re What if Vlad \u0162epe\u015f, Prince of Wallachia and the inspiration for Bram Stoker's Dracula, really was a vampire? Elizabeth Kostova's The Historian explores this question, following three different characters: in the 1930s, Bartholomew Rossi, an English professor, in the 1950s, his prot\u00e9g\u00e9 Paul, and in the 1970s, Paul's unnamed daughter. Mysterious books and Rossi's disappearance spark a hunt for Dracula's tomb that crisscrosses Europe and lets Kostova use a buttload of historical and geographical research. Kostova brings Eastern Europe to life in a way I've never seen even attempted in fiction before. From cities such as Istanbul and Budapest, to tiny villages in Romania, the author describes the sights, sounds, people, politics, and culture with such intensity that I could picture it and suddenly had an extremely strong desire to see it all myself. Without this element, the book would have been much less interesting. The plot is as intriguing as the setting; despite being spread out over 40 years, there's a sense of urgency coupled with extreme creepiness that drives the story forward. As the characters get closer to discovering Dracula's secrets, they're warned off in violent ways. The story moves between all three time periods effortlessly and clearly. It's a more cerebral DaVinci Code, and the author seems to champion using the past for guidance on how to handle the present. The book's only weakness is its ending; without revealing much, all I could think was, \"What? That's IT? THAT'S why?\" It folds nicely into the historical themes, but seems to be at odds with the direness that propelled the plot. A brief explanation was given for this, but it just seemed lame. If anyone wants to counter on me this, I welcome it, since I'm dying to find reasons to consider the ending just as wonderful as the rest of the book. Heartily recommended. ...more Meandering, slogging, hair-pulling, mess of a read. The Da Vinci code on crack-cocaine. This book needs to lose some weight. The book started off paced really well but quickly lost steam. The SLLLOOOWWW build up dies in the arms of the final pages, thankfully. By the end of this novel? historical fiction? university dissertation on the Ottoman invasion of the Byzantine empire as seen through the eyes of Dracula enthusiasts? I was ready to be staked through the heart. The one good point was that Meandering, slogging, hair-pulling, mess of a read. The Da Vinci code on crack-cocaine. This book needs to lose some weight. The book started off paced really well but quickly lost steam. The SLLLOOOWWW build up dies in the arms of the final pages, thankfully. By the end of this novel? historical fiction? university dissertation on the Ottoman invasion of the Byzantine empire as seen through the eyes of Dracula enthusiasts? I was ready to be staked through the heart. The one good point was that if you are a fan of the vampire genre then you will be taught (thoroughly) on the legend of the man that started it all. ...more", "Title": "The Historian"},
