{"Comments": "Note : <---A>Tim Butcher</---A> is officially a diamond geezer. He's just joined Goodreads and read my review below and still sent me a thank you message today. Rereading the below review, I think some authors could have taken umbrage because, well, it's actually quite cheeky.<---F> The word pompous is used</---F>. Some fun is poked. Given some of the frankly unsavoury,<---M> if not downright ugly</---M>, author/reviewer encounters there have been on this site, I therefore salute Tim. *** A BOOK WHICH DESERVES TWO REVIEWS \u2013 FIRST, THE Note : Tim Butcher is officially a diamond geezer. He's just joined Goodreads and read my review below and still sent me a thank you message today. Rereading the below review, I think some authors could have taken umbrage because, well, it's actually quite cheeky. The word pompous is used. Some fun is poked. Given some of the frankly unsavoury, if not downright ugly, author/reviewer encounters there have been on this site, I therefore salute Tim. *** A BOOK WHICH DESERVES TWO REVIEWS \u2013 FIRST, THE CHURLISHLY CYNICAL \u201cMy Congo journey deserved its own category : ordeal travel.\u201d p216 I hereby announce my ordeal reading challenge. I will read the complete works of Gertrude Stein, Samuel Beckett and Georges Perec in reverse alphabetical order whilst listening to Karlheinz Stockhausen\u2019s Helicopter Symphony, John Cage\u2019s Atlas Elipticalis and Trout Mask Replica which will be played continually on a giant loop tape. All the time, ladies and gentlemen, I will be suspended \u2013 suspended I say - and gradually lowered into \u2013 a tank containing 127 tarantula spiders and a life-sized model of Richard Nixon. Surely corporate sponsors will be falling over themselves in a bid to offer me large amounts of sponsorship cash to fund my bizarre self-indulgent fantasy. Chat show host : \u201cWhat was it like?\u201d PB : \"Well, my torso was firmly anchored to the ceiling by this ingenious contraption specially made by the brilliant engineers at Unilever (ka-ching!). Therefore I wasn\u2019t too concerned I would fall into the tank of tarantulas manufactured by Pilkingtons Glass blah blah blab blab.\" Yes, I will be admired far and wide for my feat \u2013 I will explain that it was a challenge I had to take on, it came from deep within me, I had been wrestling for many years with the twin problems of how to bring 20th century avant-garde literature to a wider audience and also how to get on the chat show circuit and here I am being asked to explain Oulipo to a daytime TV audience \u2013 I feel I may say \u2013 mission accomplished! SECOND REVIEW : TAKING TIM BUTCHER AT HIS WORD As Tim Butcher grinds his way across the Congo by 100cc motorbike, dugout canoe and barge, he is filled with a rising sense of despair: \u201cthe normal laws of development are inverted here in the Congo. The forest, not the town, offers the safest sanctuary and it is grandfathers who have been more exposed to modernity than their grandchildren. I can think of nowhere else on the planet where the same can be true.\u201d p141 Verond Ali Matongo : \u201cI am the mayor of Kasongo, appointed by the transitional government in Kinshasa. But I have no contact with them because we have no phone, and I can pay no civil servants because I have no money and there is no bank or post office where money could be received and we have no civil servants because all the schools and hospitals and everything do not work. I would say I am just waiting. Waiting for things to get back to normal.\u201d Tim Butcher : \u201cAnd when was the last time things were normal?\u201d VAM : \u201cThe 1950s. From what I hear, that is when this town was last normal.\u201d p 162 \u201cSome of the best coffee in the world used to be grown neat Kisangani but now the finest hotel in the city served only imported Nescafe\u201d p256 This is the whole of the truth Tim has to tell us about the Congo (third largest country in Africa in size, fourth in population). It\u2019s going backwards. Everything in the whole country \u2013 schools, roads, hospitals, trains, rivers, everything, was not just slightly but hugely better fifty years ago. Like previous white men in the Congo, Tim couldn\u2019t get anywhere without Africans doing all the heavy lifting. Sometimes these helpers get paid, other times they\u2019re just being kind. He steps from one situation to another like Harold Lloyd or Popeye stepping from one skyscraper girder to another. He finds some guys with pirogues (canoes) at the riverside, picks out the likeliest looking group, hires them on the spot to take him way way down the river where he has to get to a priest\u2019s house in a particular town (the only safe place) in order to go from there to the UN compound the next day where he can cadge a ride to the next town. When they get to the town \u201cMalike said he knew the way to the priest\u2019s house and I was banking on him being right\u201d. I bet you were, Tim! There\u2019s a recurrent strangeness to these travellers\u2019 tales \u2013 in the middle of a disaster zone you can easily find the kindness of strangers. I remember a famous BBC war correspondent being interviewed and the question was how the hell do you get around inside a war zone and he said \u201cI just walk out of my hotel and ask the first few people I see what\u2019s going on and how do I get there and they\u2019re always very kind and helpful\u201d \u2013 well, you have to take their word for it. But somebody must be doing all those bad things\u2026 \u201ctime and again during my journey with Benoit and Odimba I was struck by just how much tougher and more resilient than me they were\u201d p 148 \u201cKisangani.. I found it to be chaotically administered by inept, corrupt local politicians\u201d p255 p309-10 This division of people into those Tim met (all good, strong, resourceful) and those causing all the problems (very bad people) was not altogether helpful in figuring anything out. Eventually Tim has to bite the bullet and ask the big question. He approaches it like this. He\u2019s on a UN barge with Captain Ali who is from Malaysia. Captain Ali : \u201cI don\u2019t know what it is about these Congolese people, or Africa in general, but look at this wasted opportunity\u2026 In Malaysia people make millions from palm oil. It is one of the most valuable commodities in the world right now\u2026 [and the plants from which it comes grow all over the Congo:]. But the Congo people. They don\u2019t want to make money for themselves. They just wait to take money from others.\u201d \u2026he had distilled the quintessential problem of Africa that generations of academics, intellectuals and observers have danced around since the colonial powers withdrew. Why are Africans so bad at running Africa?\u201d Tim dismisses the stock answers \u2013 neo-colonialism, foreign meddling, rapacious multinational companies \u2013 as so much liberal huffing and puffing. Yes, they are elements, but they are by no means the whole story. But he gives no answer of his own. He has no idea. It\u2019s such a dangerous question to ask \u2013 there are, after all, a thousand racists out there who think they know the answer. Apart from the hundreds of miles of the Congo where there is no single element of modern technology to be found, the towns which were thriving once and have been rusting and crumbling for 40 years, the forests which are empty of animal cries because the local villagers have eaten them all, Tim stumbles (often literally) on perfect examples of things profoundly not working. At one point he realises he\u2019s on the Ubundu-Kisangani road. Before the trip, back in London, he\u2019d been told by the British Government\u2019s Department for International Development that this road had already been developed and upgraded following the 2002 peace treaty. British taxpayers\u2019 money had been spent on it. Tim finds no such thing of course. The once-four-lane highway is now a single track footpath. Nothing has been done. The money had vanished, who knows where. Moreover, the British government department officials never come along to check, so they are still blithely telling anyone who asks that the Ubundu-Kisangi road has been upgraded and is now suitable for cars and heavy goods vehicles. In the end Tim says : \u201cin six harrowing weeks of travel I felt I had touched the heart of Africa and found it broken\u201d. He does himself no favours with this uncharacteristically pompous sentence, but still, I admire all who excavate difficult truths from such hard-won experience as this. I have to admit, grudgingly, that Tim Butcher has earned his chat show appearances. Tom Myanwaya : \u201cWhat makes you do this sort of thing? I would not travel anywhere in this country except by plane. I don\u2019t think I can stand more than a few months and I will leave as soon as I can. There are some jobs in the aid world which you have to do to get on.\u201d p156 ...more I read this book on the airplane during my epic 42 hour flight from Papua New Guinea to South Carolina. It kept my attention despite my incredible fatigue and anxiety. But I had mixed feelings about it. At first, it annoyed the hell out of me. He kept going on and on about his fear and how scary the Congo is. The Congo is scary. However, the people in the Congo are amongst some of the most amazingly friendly, hospital, and cheerful helpful people in Africa. While he gradually did give some shout I read this book on the airplane during my epic 42 hour flight from Papua New Guinea to South Carolina. It kept my attention despite my incredible fatigue and anxiety. But I had mixed feelings about it. At first, it annoyed the hell out of me. He kept going on and on about his fear and how scary the Congo is. The Congo is scary. However, the people in the Congo are amongst some of the most amazingly friendly, hospital, and cheerful helpful people in Africa. While he gradually did give some shoutouts to all the Congolese who dragged his white ass through the DRC (not unlike Stanley, his hero), it wore on me. And it annoyed me because it kept pushing the DRC back into the \"heart of darkness\" trope that so many love to use. But then again, I'm not really surprised at his fear at the same time- the DRC is one of the most frustratingly difficult environments to work in. The portraits of the wiped out aid workers, the cynical UN employees, and the priests and nuns who keep the place functioning, reminded me of the people i met while I was there. I didn't go to all the places he went - I was in Kissangani, Bunia in Ituri (scene of one of the worst massacres that drove UN soldiers mad), Bukavu, and Goma. And while I wasn't on the back of a motorbike, I did travel through hostile land in an unarmed convoy and take a treacherous boat ride that lost one boat to a storm to deliver things to some internally displaced people there. It wasn't all roaring around in UN helicopters. The part that moved me the most was his conversation with the Malaysian UN boat captain. It summarized to me the frustration that all of us humanitarian and development workers have with the Congo - its got everything you would need to be a great country. Its got natural resources, natural beauty, charming and beautiful people, and smart wily people. Yet somehow, it seems to get worse and worse. It burns out the do gooders and limps along. Why is that? So I guess in the end, I enjoyed the book and felt it did, in some small way contribute to my understanding of the country - in its rich history, if nothing else. ...more In 2004 Tim Butcher realised his dream of crossing the Congo from side to side. It\u2019s an enormous country with hugely challenging terrain. He was following in the footsteps of his hero, Henry Stanley \u2013 he of \u201cDr. Livingstone I presume\u201d fame. They shared a link. Both Butcher and Stanley were journalists working for The Telegraph newspaper in London. Tim Butcher In some way his trip was every bit as difficult as that experienced by Stanley. Exhaustingly high levels of humidity and heat, matted rainf In 2004 Tim Butcher realised his dream of crossing the Congo from side to side. It\u2019s an enormous country with hugely challenging terrain. He was following in the footsteps of his hero, Henry Stanley \u2013 he of \u201cDr. Livingstone I presume\u201d fame. They shared a link. Both Butcher and Stanley were journalists working for The Telegraph newspaper in London. Tim Butcher In some way his trip was every bit as difficult as that experienced by Stanley. Exhaustingly high levels of humidity and heat, matted rainforest, mosquitoes, roads reduced to pot holed muddy paths through the jungle, seriously hostile and dangerous fighting factions, very few (and very primitive) hotels, difficulties in finding food, sometimes even difficulty in finding water. He also had to rely on other people providing him with transport and to guide him across this difficult landscape \u2013 motorbikes to get him across the land, and boats to get him down the Congo river. Obtaining these things was not easy. Herewith his description of a typical Congolese town \u2013 Kalemie: (view spoiler) [ Of the buildings themselves, there was little left beyond the fronts. Rust had not just coloured the roofs, but eaten out huge holes, through which tropical rain had flooded for countless rainy seasons. Damp, seasonal flooding from the nearby lake and collapsed foundations meant the interior rooms were mostly empty. Pipes that once brought mains water to each building lay broken and there was not one working light bulb. The town\u2019s main terrace of shops looked like one of those Hollywood filmsets, which from the front has the appearance of solidity, but from the back is nothing but a few beams propping up a fa\u00e7ade. (hide spoiler) ] He was helped by a few humanitarian organisations, dotted like minute islands amid the chaos of the Congo. But most of all he was helped by the people of the Congo, who with courage, kindness and stoicism led him from one step of his journey to the next. Their lives are tough. Butcher describes life in the Congo post independence as being \"an age of economic decay, war, coup and crisis\" . He speaks on several occasions about the extraordinary greed of the dictator Mobutu, and the legacy of corruption and lawlessness that he bestowed upon his country when he ruled as president between 1965 and 1997. He is no kinder when he speaks about the effect of Belgium as a colonial power before that, nor when he speaks of the involvement of the USA in supporting Mobutu. It\u2019s a mucky cocktail based on greed for the natural resources of the country. In many way the amazing wealth of the Congo has been its downfall \u2013 diamonds, gold, cobalt, tin, coltan and timber\u2026..it also has navigable rivers and rich agricultural land. All of this has been coveted \u2013 currently by Uganda and Rwanda (yes, even tiny Rwanda has a huge stake in its vast next door neighbour, backing fighting factions that will bring it mineral rewards). The legacy of these abuses has resulted in near anarchy, with a mind-boggling breakdown in infrastructure. Where there were roads, railways and plantations fifty years ago, there is now wilderness. Where there was the rule of law there is now every man for himself. Time and time again people speaking to Butcher talk about having to run off into the jungle when their villages are attacked by marauding soldiers. And they are seemingly attacked on whim. It all seems incredibly senseless. Yet Butcher meets brave individuals trying to lead ordinary lives in spite of all the difficulties: (view spoiler) [ A man in rags was watching us, leaning heavily on an old bicycle laden with large plastic containers. He asked if I had any water. I handed over my bottle and he raised his lean face upwards. The sun gleamed on cheeks taught from hunger. He skilfully poured in a mouthful without actually touching the bottle to his lips. He thanked me and prepared to continue on his way, but I asked him where he was heading. \u201cI am walking to Kalemie. I am a palm-oil trader. My name is Muke Nguy.\u201d I was stunned. He still had well over 100 kilometres to go before reaching Kalemie. \u201cI have already walked two hundred kilometres . It has taken me sixteen days.\u201d I found his words difficult to take in. He was on a 600 kilometre round trip through heavy bush in the equatorial heat, with no food and no water. His bicycle was so heavily laden with palm oil that it had long stopped functioning as a means of personal travel. He could not even get to the seat, and, even if he had, I noticed the pedals were missing. His bicycle was a beast of burden, a way to haul goods through the jungle. If the thin, snaking tracks were the veins of Congo\u2019s failed economy, Muke and his heavy burden were just one, solitary blood vessel. He could not afford to bring along food and water when every possible corner of carrying space was used to maximise the load\u2026\u2026 \u201cI carry eighty, maybe a hundred litres of oil. Maybe I can make ten or fifteen dollars profit when I get to Kalemie. So I spend my money there on things we do not have a home, like salt or lake-fish. When I get home, I will see my family for the first time in months and sell some of the salt for another ten or fifteen dollars profit.\u201d All this effort for $30 and a fish supper. (hide spoiler) ] And the friendship and support he is offered during his trip warms you towards the Congolese people. So often they seem prepared to walk the extra mile, even for a stranger, and even when their lives might be in danger because of it. I thought this was a marvellous book. I learnt so much about the Congo \u2013 its history, geography and politics, and the difficulties that people face trying to live there today. Tim Butcher\u2019s journey was also an amazing adventure - the gung ho of a Boy\u2019s Own magazine story couldn\u2019t have been more exciting. An excellent read. -------------------------------------------- Photograph from booksalive.co.za [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I love travelogues. And I am very interested in Africa and its history. Therefore, I was very curious for this book which describes one of the most challenging travels in contemporary Africa: Starting at Lake Tanganjika and ending at the Atlantic Ocean where the river Congo completes his journey of thousands of kilometers. I was very impressed by the speed the author managed to finish his journey. It took him about six weeks \u2013 a real sprint compared to the man who went this way first, Henry Mort I love travelogues. And I am very interested in Africa and its history. Therefore, I was very curious for this book which describes one of the most challenging travels in contemporary Africa: Starting at Lake Tanganjika and ending at the Atlantic Ocean where the river Congo completes his journey of thousands of kilometers. I was very impressed by the speed the author managed to finish his journey. It took him about six weeks \u2013 a real sprint compared to the man who went this way first, Henry Morton Stanley, who was underway for nearly three years. I was a little bit disappointed that Butcher travelled about one fifth of his way with a helicopter because he was ill after one week on board of a vessel sailing down the river Congo. I travelled in Africa too, and I know how exhausting this can be, but somehow I expected a tougher traveler writing a book like this. When faced with the devastating situation in Congo, Butcher seems to long for the end of his journey all the time. This is bad for his book, because he almost never stays at one place for a longer time and fails to connect with the people there. Everything is a fast race through the heart of the continent. Another point I didn't like much is that Butcher emphasizes all the time that Congo is a failed state. That's certainly true, but overall, he just joins Joseph Conrad in his famous words 'The Horror! The Horror!' The author comes to the conclusion that a combination of the consequences of colonialism and the inability of African leaders to rule just and successful for all the people makes the Congo as broken as it is today. Again, this is certainly no false point, but that's the conclusion after six weeks in Congo? At least for me, this information wasn't new and I wished Butcher would have been able to bring some new point of view in my mind. If you like to inform yourself about Congo now, the book surely is quite interesting. For me, the work lacks an 'Aha!'-effect. Butcher seemed to be continuously on the run. I wish he had dared to spend some more time in Congo, presenting the reader a deeper experience than he finally did. ...more Wow! Gripping, intense, adventurous! As someone who loves adventure and travel, I absolutely loved this book! People not familiar with travel may think the author may have exaggerated with his story but all you have to do is look at Congo today... Today Congo is a lawless state. The author (for his own reasons) travelled across the country which seems pretty insane given the situation in the country... First overland to the Congo River then across it to its mouth at the Atlantic... The Congo, deep in Wow! Gripping, intense, adventurous! As someone who loves adventure and travel, I absolutely loved this book! People not familiar with travel may think the author may have exaggerated with his story but all you have to do is look at Congo today... Today Congo is a lawless state. The author (for his own reasons) travelled across the country which seems pretty insane given the situation in the country... First overland to the Congo River then across it to its mouth at the Atlantic... The Congo, deep in central Africa... Another country invaded by the elite (King Leopold of Belguim) in the late 1800s, only to be raided of its riches (Gold, Cobalt and diamonds) as well as for slaves! A reoccurring theme given all the colonists who have for many years, many times invaded a country for wealth and greed... Leaving it in despair... It seems to happen way too often! After the country's independance in 1960, the country kept spiralling downward. Now today it is run by gangs. Hoarding all the countries wealth neglecting its millions of native people. The book was written wonderfully... With the writing, I was taken back to some of my adventures including my river ride deep into the Amazon - at times with lush nature and quiet peace with the occasional wildlife... (However not nearly as dangerous as the author's ride on Congo) But an adventure for sure! ...more What is it with me and muggy, hot, equatorial places and rivers? Like the book The Lost City of Z: A Tale of Deadly Obsession in the Amazon by David Grann , Blood River recounts the tale of Tim Butcher's crazy obsession to the trace the routes of a great explorer, Stanley in this case, through the Congo. While the rest of the world has become more accessible in the past half century, these two equatorial locales on different continents show that winning a battle (finding a route, establishing a f What is it with me and muggy, hot, equatorial places and rivers? Like the book The Lost City of Z: A Tale of Deadly Obsession in the Amazon by David Grann , Blood River recounts the tale of Tim Butcher's crazy obsession to the trace the routes of a great explorer, Stanley in this case, through the Congo. While the rest of the world has become more accessible in the past half century, these two equatorial locales on different continents show that winning a battle (finding a route, establishing a forward post, or even building a city) is not winning a war (creating a functioning state). Vegetation has reclaimed much of the railway in the Congo, and once busy trading hubs have fallen into disrepair with no functioning services. Rule of law is unknown. Despair is endemic. In a way, the Congo may be a perfect example of how bad things can get when a state goes so wrong that great wealth of a few is squandered in the face of the unbounded poverty of the majority. And the resources are there for everyone to share in the future. All I could think was to have millions and millions of people descend on the Congo at once--the equivalent of holding a thrashing baby to silence it--and rock it into silence, until it unclenched enough to learn and notice there might be a better way to get what one needs. It is a terrible waste. Mankind is not always to be admired. We need to find a way to bring out the best in the Congo. ---------------- August 2014 I am embarrassed by this review now that I have listened to King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror and Heroism in Colonial Africa by Adam Hochschild. I did not know when I wrote this what a horror was perpetuated there, and how many slaughtered. Survivors continued the unbridled greed, notably President Mobutu Sese Seko and his offspring. I am aghast at my ignorance and the horror of what the Congo has had to live with. ...more In 2004 journalist and historian Tim Butcher set out to retrace the 1874-77 route of legendary explorer Henry Morton Stanley (of \"Dr. Livingstone, I presume\" fame) across the Congo to the mouth of the river on Africa's west coast. A few years ago I read King Leopold's Ghost which spells out the horrifying years of King Leopold of Belgium's rape of the region. The history presented in this book largely picks up where that one left off, with the 1908 Belgian annexation of the region which was prec In 2004 journalist and historian Tim Butcher set out to retrace the 1874-77 route of legendary explorer Henry Morton Stanley (of \"Dr. Livingstone, I presume\" fame) across the Congo to the mouth of the river on Africa's west coast. A few years ago I read King Leopold's Ghost which spells out the horrifying years of King Leopold of Belgium's rape of the region. The history presented in this book largely picks up where that one left off, with the 1908 Belgian annexation of the region which was precipitated by humanitarian campaigns against the genocidal crimes of Leopold's personal agents. However, this book does not move chronologically, but rather introduces topics as Butcher moves through the insanely dangerous regions by motorbike, pirogue, barge, helicopter, and four-wheel vehicle, assisted by various aid workers and Congolese opportunists. I am not a fan of journalists who put themselves in extreme danger to get exclusive scoops, and I definitely don't agree with Butcher's decision to do so just to retrace a historical journey, albeit a very important one. The DR Congo had just emerged from a 6-year African civil war, and though a ceasefire was supposedly in effect, the entire eastern part of the country (through which Butcher traveled with a few companions) was still a rebel war zone. What I was most shocked about in this book was to learn that outside Kinshasa, which in itself is far behind the modern world, there is almost no public infrastructure or government control in the Congo. Even cities with millions of people have no consistent electricity, no sewage system, no functioning local government...it's a mess of corruption that barely functions as a subsistence economy. The thing that's amazing about this is that before Belgium turned Congo over to the native peoples, there was a lot of infrastructure, development, and trade (though largely of the exploitive variety). With lack of basic security and absolutely no investment in the country, everything has just slowly rotted and rusted away. The railroads no longer function, the roads are completely grown over by the jungle, even the river is unsafe for travel because of security concerns. Why have the Africans made such a mess of their post-colonial independence? Butcher makes the excellent point that before white Europeans scrambled for Africa, society was completely tribal. People had a say in their small government; chiefs could be replaced if they didn't rule well. Leopold brought in modern weapons and completely subdued the tribal system, enslaved the people, and taught them that survival came only through subservience. The independence of the 1960s in theory could have brought democracy and progress, but one has to remember that the people of the Congo were a polyglot lot who had been united only through conquest. There was not overlying loyalty, little common interest, and no experience at modern self-government. The result was a take-over by African elites who, like Leopold before them, saw the Congo as a personal fiefdom to fleece for diamonds, gold, and anything they could get from it, with no intention of putting money into the state economy. Since then there have been a few different despots, and constant struggle between groups backed by Uganda, both Tutsi and Hutu groups from Rwanda, etc etc etc. No group has looked out for the interests of the Congolese people as a whole. What a mess! As Butcher says repeatedly, DR Congo is one of the few places in the world where grandfathers experienced more modernity than their grandchildren, and where the pace of progress seems to run backwards. 4 stars for this fascinating book. ...more Amazing read of Butcher's journey Westward to the mouth of the Congo River, following Dr. Stanley's trip from the 1870s. It starts with a 700km bike ride through footpaths to the Eastern starting point, and then follows him as uses canoes, UN ships, and cars to navigate to the starting point over several months. Along the way he includes history about Dr. Stanley's journey, which he is tracing. Because of the 50 years of instability (more often chaos), in the Congo, Butcher may have been the fir Amazing read of Butcher's journey Westward to the mouth of the Congo River, following Dr. Stanley's trip from the 1870s. It starts with a 700km bike ride through footpaths to the Eastern starting point, and then follows him as uses canoes, UN ships, and cars to navigate to the starting point over several months. Along the way he includes history about Dr. Stanley's journey, which he is tracing. Because of the 50 years of instability (more often chaos), in the Congo, Butcher may have been the first person to complete this trip since the 1950s. Ironically his mother had completed a leisurely course of the river during the 50s, which she thought nothing of at the time, unaware of the impending crash. He interviews locals and expat workers along the way, trying to find the source of the scale of the collapse in the Congo. After seeing urban Liberia (which is the 3rd? poorest country in the world) it was appalling to see just how much more things could worsen, as he paints a vivid portrayal of bush life in the Congo. ...more Excellent. The text was clear and had enough reference material to give it serious credibility. It was compelling enough that I reread Heart of Darkness while reading Blood River, I rented the movies Blood Diamonds and Rawanda, pulled out my copy of Poisonwood Bible and bought a copy of Dancing in the Glory of Monsters. Although billed as a travel book, it's also a political commentary by the author. His passion is sincere and mildly contagious. I don't think the answer is as simple as elections Excellent. The text was clear and had enough reference material to give it serious credibility. It was compelling enough that I reread Heart of Darkness while reading Blood River, I rented the movies Blood Diamonds and Rawanda, pulled out my copy of Poisonwood Bible and bought a copy of Dancing in the Glory of Monsters. Although billed as a travel book, it's also a political commentary by the author. His passion is sincere and mildly contagious. I don't think the answer is as simple as elections and increased law enforcement, though. Who makes the laws?? The west? The levant? IDK. Don't we face similar situations in many places? I recommend you read this book. ...more For lovers of Africa, travel writing or sheer adventurism. Tim takes the reader on a vividly narrated journey into the heart of the Congo. Partly recreating Stanley's original expedition, and expertly intertwining that great undertaking with his own adventures, Tim takes on challenges, extreme adversity and genuinely uplifting experiences. Fast paced but with great attention to detail, this is a terrific read. I love travel books in general and liked this one in particular as this is not simply cultural exposure but rather a combination of history, politics and adventure faced by the author. Tim Butchers book was a very insightful and vivid writing about the authors promise to follow Stanleys footsteps and trek across the DRC. Great reading and learning about the history of this country and about the adventure that Butcher had there. His account shows the backward spiral that this country, full of natu I love travel books in general and liked this one in particular as this is not simply cultural exposure but rather a combination of history, politics and adventure faced by the author. Tim Butcher\u00b4s book was a very insightful and vivid writing about the author\u00b4s promise to follow Stanley\u00b4s footsteps and trek across the DRC. Great reading and learning about the history of this country and about the adventure that Butcher had there. His account shows the backward spiral that this country, full of natural resources, has faced over the course of the past century, and it is tragic to read and learn the details. He had clearly researched his destiny thoroughly, before taking on his journey, and it makes the reading even more agreeable, informative and concrete. It feels like his trek across Congo is the long due fulfilment of a promise the author has made for himself for his mother (who happened to pass by there as a youngster) , and while it takes him years of wait and preparation to arrive to the perfect moment to take this trip, once he gets on it, it feels like it is like a redemption to him, despite of all the life-threatening risks involved. it\u2019s a way for the author to try to travel back in time to the childhood of his mother and to discover what happened eversince. It is probably also a clear journey of introspection and whilst it is difficult to understand the risk he has taken to trek across the DRC, taking into account he has been a war journalist, I understand that these moments of reality (in between life and death) are those of introspection and inner discovery and realization of the value of life. Butcher is a journalist, and as such his writing style is that of an informative reporter, which is highly appreciated, however for me his portrayal of personal emotion could be stronger at times. Certainly a lot of emotions were involved in this trip, but managing to portray theif full scope more intensely would certainly profit the book! Nevertheless, I somehow think I understand the reason the author takes these life threatening risks as part of his work, and I can just imagine the adrenaline and the joy of living the author gets out of these scary trips. I guess I have had a similar experience when, after an operation, I had to wait for a whole dreadful month to know if I had cancer or not. After finding out I was well, I have never valued life more, and my life perspective has changed and my guess is that Butcher has a similar feeling of joy of being alive after his DRC and other similar travel experiences which in my mind probably makes the whole life-treatening trip worthwhile taking! This book was a great discovery to me, and I look forward to reading my second Butcher book now, on Sierra Leone and Liberia, to learn about the history of those countries, as well as to read the author\u00b4s adventures. ...more Blood River, Tim Butcher's account of his travelling the Congo river in a 21st century recreation of Stanley's journey, has plenty of interest. There is a brief history of the Congo; an introduction to Stanley's journey & its legacy; a brief examination of the implications of colonialism; an astonishing & gruelling personal journey; & vignettes of people he meets during that journey. Tim's outrage at so many people living lives that could be snuffed out so easily (from disease, viole Blood River, Tim Butcher's account of his travelling the Congo river in a 21st century recreation of Stanley's journey, has plenty of interest. There is a brief history of the Congo; an introduction to Stanley's journey & its legacy; a brief examination of the implications of colonialism; an astonishing & gruelling personal journey; & vignettes of people he meets during that journey. Tim's outrage at so many people living lives that could be snuffed out so easily (from disease, violence, the inability to travel safely) in a way we don't expect for ourselves in the West is clear, as is his anger at the waste of talent, energy & material resources & the way in which the land & people have been exploited by others. There is a great deal of sadness; what has become of decent, generous Benoit, trying to make a life with all the odds stacked against him? What of the 4-year-old whose father was so desperate that he be given the chance of a better life that he was prepared to take his chances & give him to someone he had only just met? I imagine that in the face of such suffering Tim's personal privations - not that I could have lain on the dirty, smelly floor of a boat for a single night, taken my chances with malaria, or been brave enough to face guns along the way - became considerably less significant than they would otherwise have been. But the book remains a good read because it has a rollicking story of a dangerous undertaking at its heart. Clearly the reader knows the outcome, but at the outset Tim didn't, & the anxiety he felt is evident. It also has very vivid images among which are the beauty of the lush green along the river, the rust & decay of boats & buildings from a bygone age, & the rainforest reclaiming the railway tracks; the latter a serving as a metaphor for the journey into the past made by the country post-independence. One thing I would have liked was more, & better photos. Ultimately what will stay with me is the call for something better for people whose lives we have too long considered to be disposable. ...more I was surprised by the lack of blood in the book to be honest. Despite the author's continual expressions of fear and terror on his journey, he somehow fails to convey it other than by just saying so. The dreaded Mau Mau are glimpsed but not engaged with, and the massacres that often happened in the past aren't rendered in a way that makes much of an impact. I also became a bit tired with the subtext that seemed to say all the Congo's problems are rooted in the problems laid by the Belgian Empir I was surprised by the lack of blood in the book to be honest. Despite the author's continual expressions of fear and terror on his journey, he somehow fails to convey it other than by just saying so. The dreaded Mau Mau are glimpsed but not engaged with, and the massacres that often happened in the past aren't rendered in a way that makes much of an impact. I also became a bit tired with the subtext that seemed to say all the Congo's problems are rooted in the problems laid by the Belgian Empire, or that this or that horrific dictator was supported by America. He does bring out the tragedy of Africa and the Congo, even if you might disagree with his analysis of the causes, and he does allow one of his colleagues to put across a forceful denunciation of his Empire guilt \u2013 Malaysia had a similar colonial history to Africa, and it isn\u2019t drowning in blood and corruption. You also have to admire the guts and tenacity of the Victorian British and Belgians who tried to make sense of the land which seems even now somewhat untamable, even if Butcher doesn\u2019t. In the end, I felt he could have been a more positive chronicler, and less politically correct reporter, of the river\u2019s heritage. ...more This is the story of the re-tracing of Henry Morton Stanley's crossing of Africa; it makes for fascinating reading. The journey is interspersed with sections going back to Stanley's epic journey, so it is part history, part travelogue. There is no doubt about the dangers of undertaking such a journey and this is very evident in the account. It tells of the Congo's history of colonialism, dictatorship and war and a country in horrifying present-day decline. I particularly enjoyed the encounters wi This is the story of the re-tracing of Henry Morton Stanley's crossing of Africa; it makes for fascinating reading. The journey is interspersed with sections going back to Stanley's epic journey, so it is part history, part travelogue. There is no doubt about the dangers of undertaking such a journey and this is very evident in the account. It tells of the Congo's history of colonialism, dictatorship and war and a country in horrifying present-day decline. I particularly enjoyed the encounters with ordinary people along the way. I lived 'next door' in Zambia for many years; the ingenuity and resourcefulness of individuals and their sheer determination in the face of so many obstacles is always amazing. Thank you for a great story. ...more Journalist Tim Butcher makes the improbable journey overland from the Great Lakes to the Congo River and down to the coast in 2004, as the various wars in the Congo continued sporadically despite the formal end to hostilities. If you want to understand IRC's recent figure of 5.4 million excess deaths in the Congo since 1997, read this book. Butcher stumbles onto dying villages stranded in the forest as roads built in the 1950s are reclaimed by the jungle, settlements freshly burned down by milit Journalist Tim Butcher makes the improbable journey overland from the Great Lakes to the Congo River and down to the coast in 2004, as the various wars in the Congo continued sporadically despite the formal end to hostilities. If you want to understand IRC's recent figure of 5.4 million excess deaths in the Congo since 1997, read this book. Butcher stumbles onto dying villages stranded in the forest as roads built in the 1950s are reclaimed by the jungle, settlements freshly burned down by militias for the n-tieth time, sending everyone into the bush. He meets traders making a 300-km journey on bicycle to trade $50 worth of goods in forgotten cities. It's literally incredible. ...more \"And we fled into the bush.\" Last night I finished Blood River. This morning I requested a dozen books on the History of the Congo at the library. Tim Butcher is an excellent introduction to a complicated place. What works so well in this book is that Butcher fashions the narrative of his own journey through the DRC around an elegantly retold history. The final sixty or so pages are the finest in the book and the end is surprisingly affecting. A very interesting look at the extremely difficult and dangerous journey following in Stanley's footsteps through the Congo. Some years ago I came across the term resource curse , \"the paradox that countries with an abundance of natural resources, specifically non-renewable resources like minerals and fuels, tend to have less economic growth, less democracy, and worse development outcomes than countries with fewer natural resources\" (thank you wikipedia). Perhaps the most obvious example of resource curse is the Democratic Republic of Congo. The DRC is insanely rich in mineral wealth and yet one of the poorest and most Some years ago I came across the term resource curse , \"the paradox that countries with an abundance of natural resources, specifically non-renewable resources like minerals and fuels, tend to have less economic growth, less democracy, and worse development outcomes than countries with fewer natural resources\" (thank you wikipedia). Perhaps the most obvious example of resource curse is the Democratic Republic of Congo. The DRC is insanely rich in mineral wealth and yet one of the poorest and most violent countries on Earth. Tim Butcher made a journey along the Congo River in 2004, retracting the footsteps of Henry Stanley Morgan in the 19th century. Most people he talked to about the journey thought he was insane, but it's the kind of insanity I can appreciate. As with Dervla Murphy, I love that someone else makes these trips so I don't have to. Along the way he found a country that had been brutally exploited by everyone from Arab slavers, to Belgian sociopaths (King Leopold deserves to be mentioned in the same context as Hitler and Pol Pot), to corrupt local leaders and neighbours with their own axes to grind (the DRC still has a rather complicated relationship with Rwanda). He finds some sad traces of \"what might have been\", old buildings and railway tracks now overgrown by jungle, grandfathers who remember what cars looked like and have to describe them to their grandchildren. He finds people working hard just to stay alive and many stories that end with \"we fled into the bush\" following one disaster or another. He calls Roger Casement \"British\", which I'll politely ignore for now. He mentions the first UN peacekeeping mission in the 1960s, which one of my uncles took part in. Even well-meaning interventions in the DRC can be disastrous. This was genuinely terrifying in places, although of course I knew the author survived. Perhaps the saddest bit was where the guide begged him to take his 4-year-old son so the boy could have a better life. I'm half-tempted to shelve this under \"dystopia\". Many an author could learn from the DRC how to create a dystopic vision. This has turned into a more rambling review than I'd planned! In short, I recommend this as a brief insight into one of the world's most terrifying places and one of the world's most intrepid travel writers. ...more I enjoyed this book but did find it to be rather sensationalized. I have been to many of these places (i live in Congo) including Kasongo, Kindu, and Kisangani and they really aren't all that ominous and miserable as he makes them out to be in this book. \"\"A masterpiece,\" John Le Carre writes about Tim Butcher's journalistic travel memoir and I agree. Prepare for your heart to be wrenched when you read Blood River, A Journey to Africa's Broken Heart. But you may not notice it in the excitement and danger of the ride. There's the magnificent and ominous Congo River landscape, the present terror, the valor of the victimized native people, the greed of the exploiters of the river's resources (native and colonizers alike) and the intrepid European e \"\"A masterpiece,\" John Le Carre writes about Tim Butcher's journalistic travel memoir and I agree. Prepare for your heart to be wrenched when you read Blood River, A Journey to Africa's Broken Heart. But you may not notice it in the excitement and danger of the ride. There's the magnificent and ominous Congo River landscape, the present terror, the valor of the victimized native people, the greed of the exploiters of the river's resources (native and colonizers alike) and the intrepid European explorers who struggled to tame the river. In Blood River, Tim Butcher attempts to recreated Henry Morton Stanley's journey of the 1870s. Sponsored by the New York Herald as an advertising stunt, Stanley is famous for having found the mythic Scottish explorer, David Livingstone, who went missing in Africa the late 1860s while looking for the origin of the Nile River. Stanley wanted to be the first to chart the Congo from its origin in the heart of Africa westward to the Atlantic and he ultimately--and at great cost--succeeded. In 2004, Tim Butcher, likewise a professional journalist (Britain's Daily Telegraph), is determined to take that same journey. After extensive, obsessive research, he set out from the Congo's eastern border in a spirit of adventure and calculated misgivings, ignoring the fact that everyone he talked to told him he was crazy. He describes his travel by motorcycle, dug out canoe, steamboat, helicopter, plane and on foot with a precise, detail-rich journalist's eye. Through his research, Tim Butcher was well aware of Africa's terrible legacy of slavery and exploitation of its riches, but he wasn't prepared for the day-to-day fear, the terrorist attacks forcing the Congolese to flee to the bush as a way of life, a jungle that ate up the railroad tracks, thriving riverfront cities of the '50s collapsed in corruption and decay, and a country--maybe the only country on the earth-- going backwards and retreating from progress into the primitive where there is \"no memory for justice\"--all punctuated with cell phones, abundant ammunition, jets and extravagantly wealthy internationals in gated communities rising out of the rain forest. Along with Butcher, the reader tries to make sense of his life-threatening encounters where he is saved by local Congolese, foreign missionaries, and UN workers. We learn much about how the Congo played a dominant role in the slave trade on the west coast by the Portuguese and even earlier on the east coast by the Arab traders, how the colonizers tried and failed to harness the huge river full of cataracts, how Joseph Conrad and Barbara Kingsolver memorialized the river's heart of darkness, how Katherine Hepburn kept a journal during the filming of African Queen, and how the UN functioned in an ivory tower of antiseptic efficiency. Tim Butcher writes about disease, murder, enslavement and the onslaught of the encroaching jungle. Ultimately his experience is \"relentlessly punishing\". Traveling on the Blood River, the reader too experiences the breakdown of civilization, with human suffering beyond what we can imagine living our First World lives. Truly, this is the \"Last World\". ...more Tim Butcher is to be saluted for making and recording this extraordinary trip. It was every bit as dangerous as Stanley's, if not more. He faced the same diseases and supply problems as Stanley and his men. While armed enemies haunted Stanley, Mr. Butcher is vulnerable to more powerful weapons and is traveling essentially alone. Descriptions of the former civilization are striking, especially coupled with the author's observations of time going backwards. Mr. Butcher describes hotels, roads, func Tim Butcher is to be saluted for making and recording this extraordinary trip. It was every bit as dangerous as Stanley's, if not more. He faced the same diseases and supply problems as Stanley and his men. While armed enemies haunted Stanley, Mr. Butcher is vulnerable to more powerful weapons and is traveling essentially alone. Descriptions of the former civilization are striking, especially coupled with the author's observations of time going backwards. Mr. Butcher describes hotels, roads, functioning railroads and means of production from the colonial period and their present state of damage and decay. He has a deep sense of history and a keen eye for the present. He helps the reader imagine the plight of those who scramble to stay alive while natural and man made forces hold them back and the extraordinary qualities of those who can somehow maintain. While this book is very good there was not enough of it for me. The author writes of bicycle traders, guides on land and river, UN and missionary workers and government officials, some of whom he spent a lot of time with. He usually described their encounters and something of their history or point of view. I wanted to know more. We don't know if they live in huts or houses. Do they, and all locals are men, have a wife (wives) or kids? It is not so much that they speak English or French, but it is how did they became so good at a second language or come into their positions? While Mr. Butcher spoke with female aid workers and missionaries, there is not one interview with an African woman. Aid programs appear to be band aids on huge problems. What do these aid agencies do? From this book, they receive supplies and their staffs live in air conditioned pre-fabs. I don't remember a single description of a clinic or the dispensing of aid. In his discussion of what went wrong, it's clear that the need for the rule of law far transcends the need for democracy. Libertarians should take note of the consequences of a weak government. In these discussions of the African continent, the stability of Botswana and Namibia are not cited. I'm giving this book 5 stars because of the value of the author's actually doing this and putting it down and because it is so readable that I gobbled it up. ...more A century after the memorable journey of his Daily Telegraph colleague Henry Morton Stanley who mapped the Congo basin and then the now Congo country from its source to its mouth at Boma, Tim Butcher made the same journey, from Lubumbashi to Boma. This time, he chose the after war period. It was a real challenge and this book is in fact the celebration of such achievement. The journalist, like his former fellow, become the voice of the voiceless (what about those millions of the Rwandese refugee A century after the memorable journey of his Daily Telegraph colleague Henry Morton Stanley who mapped the Congo basin and then the now Congo country from its source to its mouth at Boma, Tim Butcher made the same journey, from Lubumbashi to Boma. This time, he chose the after war period. It was a real challenge and this book is in fact the celebration of such achievement. The journalist, like his former fellow, become the voice of the voiceless (what about those millions of the Rwandese refugee evaporated in Congo forests when the AFDL backed by the now Rwandan regime purchased them), he become the witness of the Congo and African failure states (where former railways have given space to the forest and big trees), he become the evaluator of what has been done and, probably, the most important, his view of the Congo is different with the view of the others commentators, journalists, experts who do not live and experiencing the deep Congo. The book is full of stories of his meeting with VIP and ordinary Congolese and others. In fact, crossing the Congo is a challenge. Crossing it on that after war situation is a stupid adventure he achieved. Anyone who want to know or to read about the now Congo needs to read Tim Butcher Blood River's book. But, the book is offering also a big door to discover and to learn more and more about the Congo. But, the author could not avoid to be in the footsteps of his colleague Stanley who published \"Through the Dark Continent\" (after his memorable book \"How I met Dr Livingstone\" celebrating his \"Dr Livingstone, I presume\" presume?\" meeting with the old explorer and missionary), Butcher is still describing the Congo using the same negative cliche and tabloid: \"A Journey to Africa's Broken Heart\". But, to be honest also, this is the real Congo: a state non-state; a broken country; a broken society... Norbert X MBU-MPUTU ...more After several days of reflection, I will increase this rating to four stars. I read this book as I was reading Jon Krakauer's Into the Wild . It proved to be an interesting comparison and contrast, which I hadn't expected. This book is about a man's obsession to recreate Stanley's 19th century expedition through the Congo's interior. As for comparisons: both books were written by journalists, and reinforced my belief that journalists do not make good writers. Tom Wolfe may be an exception to th After several days of reflection, I will increase this rating to four stars. I read this book as I was reading Jon Krakauer's Into the Wild . It proved to be an interesting comparison and contrast, which I hadn't expected. This book is about a man's obsession to recreate Stanley's 19th century expedition through the Congo's interior. As for comparisons: both books were written by journalists, and reinforced my belief that journalists do not make good writers. Tom Wolfe may be an exception to that rule, but that's another discussion. Both books feel like super long magazine articles. Blood River could have been shortened by a good 100 pages, in my opinion. Both authors were deeply embroiled with their subject matter and personal obsessions. Contrasts: Whereas Into the Wild is a yawn-fest as the author canonizes his hapless hero, Blood River is an education and a revelation. Butcher does an excellent job of weaving his travelogue with Congo's history. I appreciated his recounting of Stanley's journey into the interior of Congo, and how that changed Africa. Holy smoke, it was a miracle that Stanley made it out alive, unlike his expat colleagues in the group. I loved that I didn't know how the book would end. Butcher obviously made it out of Congo alive, but did he complete his quest? Was he airlifted out in a malarial haze? Did he discover the answers to all of Congo's problems? Was he changed? As for revelation: the unforgettable, often nameless people who Butcher encountered during his journey. They are pictures of courage, strength, and resilience. It was a gift to meet them, ever so briefly. There are certainly many moments of reflection in this book, but I respect that Butcher doesn't offer trite answers to Congo's situation. It's a book that deserves reading. ...more Books like Tim Butcher's \"Blood River,\" wherein an intrepid foreign correspondent traipses into the \"broken heart\" of \"Africa\" have a tendency to fall into the tired and often offensive cliches that mark the Western media's depiction of a wildly diverse continent. Indeed, the blurb on the back of my edition of the book describing Butcher was possibly the last Victorian-era style explorer seemed as much a curse as a blessing. But in the end, the book skirted these risks and delivered a highly ent Books like Tim Butcher's \"Blood River,\" wherein an intrepid foreign correspondent traipses into the \"broken heart\" of \"Africa\" have a tendency to fall into the tired and often offensive cliches that mark the Western media's depiction of a wildly diverse continent. Indeed, the blurb on the back of my edition of the book describing Butcher was possibly the last Victorian-era style explorer seemed as much a curse as a blessing. But in the end, the book skirted these risks and delivered a highly entertaining and often illuminating story of a country that, while distinct in important ways, is a mirror for many of the problems that have plagued African states since independence. Part of Butcher's success comes in the earnest approach he takes to telling his story of attempting to cross the DRC following Henry Morton Stanley's famous route. The single-mindedness of such a journey focuses the book and Butcher deftly combines his current observations with those of Stanley, along with describing what has transpired in the time between Stanley's exploration and Butcher's own journey. More, he focuses enough on his own personal experience of the journey and its hardships--from his long malarial daze onboard a UN patrol boat to the Congolese friend who begs Butcher to adopt his child--that it does not feel as if Butcher is using the book to diagnose \"Africa's problems.\" The other part of what makes the book a fantastic read is that Butcher's journey was simply stunning and, brought to life with compelling prose, makes for an adventure story that is hard to put down. ...more Many have followed the travel routes of famous explorers in recent years: Rory Stewart walked across Afghanistan, and the many attempts to follow the Silk Road or Wilfred Thesiger's Empty Quarter. Few, however, have attempted Stanley's route across the Congo, and the reasons were simple: It was too frustrating, too physically demanding, and most importantly - too dangerous. This is most likely to be one of the best travel accounts about the Congo for a long time, and this is not just a piece of g Many have followed the travel routes of famous explorers in recent years: Rory Stewart walked across Afghanistan, and the many attempts to follow the Silk Road or Wilfred Thesiger's Empty Quarter. Few, however, have attempted Stanley's route across the Congo, and the reasons were simple: It was too frustrating, too physically demanding, and most importantly - too dangerous. This is most likely to be one of the best travel accounts about the Congo for a long time, and this is not just a piece of geopolitical writing of a pure journalistic nature: Butcher wrote his will before he set off on his journey. This is the honest account of a traveller who is obsess and desperate to understand the African continent, and he would risk everything in order to achieve his dream: to cross the Congo overland. The account he gave was both very informational and personal. The story traces the history of both the Congo and his own family, and he went on great lengths to look for any evidence or traces that will help to tell the story of the Congo whilst he was there. This book will be one of the classics of modern travel writings, and amongst Colin Thubron and Rory Stewart, Butcher has certainly found himself amongst some of the greatest travel writers of our time. ...more Awesome yarn that combines the fantastic account of the author's trek down the Congo river, and a brief history of Congo free state/Congo/Zaire/DRC. The historical anecdotes are effortless weaved into the narrative, making this an extremely enjoyable and informative read. I read this whilst in-country, which added to the experience, as I continuously sought to find aspects of Butcher's tale in what I saw myself, 6 years after the publishing of the book. Things have somewhat improved, but I don't Awesome yarn that combines the fantastic account of the author's trek down the Congo river, and a brief history of Congo free state/Congo/Zaire/DRC. The historical anecdotes are effortless weaved into the narrative, making this an extremely enjoyable and informative read. I read this whilst in-country, which added to the experience, as I continuously sought to find aspects of Butcher's tale in what I saw myself, 6 years after the publishing of the book. Things have somewhat improved, but I don't recommend reading about his arrival in Kinshasa, when you yourself are on a plane to Kinshasa. Stressful. I enjoyed the fact that the author takes a small but measured step back from journalistic objectivity, and takes his time to describe his take on what he saw on his journey, and his own interpretation on the giant cluster fuck that is this country. Of particular note is his final assessment, from his mixed emotions regarding Stanley's achievements, to the Congolese's own role in their slow but steady decline. ...more I found Tim Butcher's <+++>Blood River: A Journey to Africa's Broken Heart</+++> in an English pub in Bangkok, and ended up reading most of it on a series of flights around the Middle East (far more interesting than anything available on Qatar Airways' in-flight entertainment system). I really enjoyed Butcher's honest style of writing and the mix of history, current events, and personal experience detailed in this book. He does not pretend to know how to solve all of the Congo's problems, but instead descr I found Tim Butcher's <+++>Blood River: A Journey to Africa's Broken Heart</+++> in an English pub in Bangkok, and ended up reading most of it on a series of flights around the Middle East (far more interesting than anything available on Qatar Airways' in-flight entertainment system). I really enjoyed Butcher's honest style of writing and the mix of history, current events, and personal experience detailed in this book. He does not pretend to know how to solve all of the Congo's problems, but instead describes his experience and encounters in a way that allows the reader to come to their own conclusions. I look forward to reading more about the history and current affairs of the Congo, as well as checking out the author's Chasing the Devil: The Search for Africa's Fighting Spirit . ...more I really enjoyed this book, mainly because it dealt with a journey in a country that is a bit \"off-limits\" is that makes sense. It was a fascinating journey brought vividly to the reader by Tim Butcher. I generally envious of every travel book I read, wishing I was the one on the journey. I still got that from this book of course, but there were also other sections of Tim's journey that I was glad I was the reader and not the one finding a way through the remotest parts of that incredible countr I really enjoyed this book, mainly because it dealt with a journey in a country that is a bit \"off-limits\" is that makes sense. It was a fascinating journey brought vividly to the reader by Tim Butcher. I generally envious of every travel book I read, wishing I was the one on the journey. I still got that from this book of course, but there were also other sections of Tim's journey that I was glad I was the reader and not the one finding a way through the remotest parts of that incredible country. This book gives a real insight into the troubles of DR Congo, its people, its past, its present, all told through a journey along its lifeblood river. Great stuff Tim. I'm really looking forward to your WW1 inspired look at Gavrilo Princip which sounds thoroughly fascinating - especially on its centenary. ...more I LOVED this book. It makes me super happy when an author can weave history throughout a story to where I leave entertained and educated. It's weird to write that I loved this book because the subject matter and content was dark and disturbing but it was still a fascinating read. I felt like I was traveling down that river with the author. I did think the ending was a bit anti-climatic or I probably would have given it a 5th star. He also came to several conclusions about the people of the DRC t I LOVED this book. It makes me super happy when an author can weave history throughout a story to where I leave entertained and educated. It's weird to write that I loved this book because the subject matter and content was dark and disturbing but it was still a fascinating read. I felt like I was traveling down that river with the author. I did think the ending was a bit anti-climatic or I probably would have given it a 5th star. He also came to several conclusions about the people of the DRC that I felt were short sighted or at least culturally ignorant but I still appreciated exploring The country through his eyes. I can't wait to visit this country and spend time with the people of DR Congo. ...more The Congo is, as the author points out, the darkest heart of Africa-sequentially brutalised, once functional in some ways and now given over to the madness of jungles and wars. A really interesting book-the author followed in the footsteps of Livingstone and Stanley, and takes the Congo river in the face of all (significant) obstacles down to its end, at no little risk to himself. Very worth reading if you are interested in Africa-my only frustration was that it was about a dozen things at once: The Congo is, as the author points out, the darkest heart of Africa-sequentially brutalised, once functional in some ways and now given over to the madness of jungles and wars. A really interesting book-the author followed in the footsteps of Livingstone and Stanley, and takes the Congo river in the face of all (significant) obstacles down to its end, at no little risk to himself. Very worth reading if you are interested in Africa-my only frustration was that it was about a dozen things at once: critique of aid work in Africa, recasting of a historical trip, analysis of colonialism, a boys' own adventure story, et cetera....but well worth a read! ...more<---C>Tim Butcher</---C>", "Title": "Blood River: A Journey to Africa's Broken Heart"},
