{"Comments": "This book cost me around 600 dollars. When I'm traveling to and from conventions, I use the airplane time to catch up on my reading. A lot of times this means I'm taking the opportunity to read books that have been popular for a while, but that I haven't gotten around to. I feel like I should be aware of the landscape. Anyway,<---M> on my way home from Seattle</---M>, I had a layover in Minneapolis. I grabbed this book so I'd have something to read while I was eating dinner in the airport. So I ate dinner, a This book cost me around 600 dollars. When I'm traveling to and from conventions, I use the airplane time to catch up on my reading. A lot of times this means I'm taking the opportunity to read books that have been popular for a while, but that I haven't gotten around to. I feel like I should be aware of the landscape. Anyway, on my way home from Seattle, I had a layover in Minneapolis. I grabbed this book so I'd have something to read while I was eating dinner in the airport. So I ate dinner, and I read the book, and I lost track of time, and I missed my plane. I ended up having to rent a car and drive the three and a half hours back to Stevens Point. You win this round, <---A>Cassandra Clare</---A>.... ...<---F>more John no longer uses this account</---F>. I have no patience for this bullshit any longer. There are many ways to state an opinion that is in disagreement with this review, and so far, many of you have FAILED to do so. I will no longer tolerate disparaging comments. Rethink them if you don't want me to delete them. Thanks, John's Sister PS: John is not male. She changed her gender status so she would not receive misogynistic comments, or gendered insults. JFYI. I will tell the complete and honest truth. An John no longer uses this account. I have no patience for this bullshit any longer. There are many ways to state an opinion that is in disagreement with this review, and so far, many of you have FAILED to do so. I will no longer tolerate disparaging comments. Rethink them if you don't want me to delete them. Thanks, John's Sister PS: John is not male. She changed her gender status so she would not receive misogynistic comments, or gendered insults. JFYI. I will tell the complete and honest truth. And I will tell it right now. I...I... I... I don't... *takes deep breath* Idon'tlikethisstory! It's true, okay, it's true! Let me explain! I've never liked Cassandra Clare. In fact, I hate her writing. So it surprised me in this story that I could even deal with her prose. Deal with it, mind you. It surprised me even more that I could read through it somewhat smoothly. So my problem isn't with her prose. It's <---C>Alec</---C> and Magnus. Yes, you read right. Read it again. My problem. Is with. Alec. And. Magnus. *sigh* Okay, before you dub me as a homophobe and move on, allow me to explain. Alec and Magnus, apart, I like them. Magnus has a certain charm which, to a point, you have to respect. Alec isn't a bad guy, and when he isn't bitching at Magnus or Clary, you can't really have a problem with him either. (Although he does angst quite a bit, so does everyone in this series, so you can get over that.) So, you may ask, what is my problem? I claim to like the characters enough, so why can't I like them together? Ah, let me give you one word, my dears, execution. Clare doesn't know how to execute much of anything correctly, especially her ideas that seem to be original. She'd rather write her less original ideas ( Ginny Bella Clary and Draco in Leather Pants Edward Angstyer Harry Jace) to \"perfection\" than the actual ideas that might be worth something if she tried. My first problem? Magnus's body language creeped me out. Now, one of my friends pointed out that a 100 year old warlock is BOUND to be creepy. This is my point. In this story, I keep getting creepy perv vibes off of him. Now, I know the typical response \"Magnus is really seventeen! He hasn't mentally or physically aged a day!\" This is nice, but it's just impossible. After you've lived for that long, it's just...preposterous that you would be able to just ignore everything you had to go through. He's the high Warlock of Brooklyn, if I'm not mistaken, and he had to learn SOMETHING to get in that position. It's just the little things that he does that steer me away from him. Probably, it was the thing of wearing the jeans so low on his hips Alec had to look away. That sort of kept me looking like this, Yeah, like that. I'm not that much of a prude, but come on . That just weirded me out. Moving on, Then we have Alec. Oh, Alec. Insecure, emo, closeted gay. Okay, this is cute, but what else? What makes Magnus attracted to him? What makes him attracted to Magnus? In this story, we're shown their relationship. Basically, Alec is gay. Alec likes Magnus. Magnus likes Alec. Alec doesn't want anyone to know he is gay. Thus, he doesn't want anyone to know he likes Magnus. Magnus is exasperated at this. That is the basis of their relationship. Thankfully, we fix this later and get rid of the last three. So, we have. Alec is gay. Alec likes Magnus. Magnus likes Alec. And that is it. Not that I find anything wrong with this, but...come on. And later we have to create fake conflict for them, because we're running out of actual conflict and apparently even Clare is getting bored of writing the same thing over and over again. Okay. This is cute. So, besides Magnus's slightly creepyness and Alec's...generallyness...there isn't much there. I don't see why I should like them. I mean, they aren't annoying together or anything, but there just isn't... ... There just isn't... Any... Ijustcan'tseeanychemistry! There, I said it! Okay, I said it! Basically, after a while, I was just looking at the screen like, Cuuute. Basically, what I'm saying? Alec = Okay. Magnus = Okay (kind of a creeper, but okay). Alec + Magnus = x x = [image error] Okay. Now what? Merged review: Fans of The Immortal Instruments -- [image error] I've decided to rate this 2 stars. That's all I can give it. Here we go -- First thing's first Characters JACE The meme that most describes him? Yes. Jace is a jackass. That much of a jackass. In fact, this meme doesn't even do Jace justice. Jace is the reason I hate this book. Jace is not just a jackass -- he is a gigantic asshole. He bosses Clary around constantly, to the point where logic is twisted just so they can end up at the same place together. He thinks himself higher than everyone else, picks fights for no reason (to the point where he goes in a pub full of werewolves who just lost a cub(no older than fifteen) and berates them for feeling sad about this -- WTF?), and is a general awful person. The worst part? Because of his \"BWWWAAADDDD PWWWAAASSSTTT\" we're supposed to be sympathizing with this self absorbed FREAK ! Let me tell you this, I don't give a flying banana leaf (yes, running out of euphemisms here) how tortured or depressed or loony this guy is, if he is an asshole he is an ASSHOLE, no questions asked! I am not going to excuse him for it because he has a little wangst material! Don't get me wrong, Jace's life sucks, sure -- but I don't CARE. It can suck and suck and suck -- that doesn't give him an excuse to be such an asshole all of the time. Everytime Jace comes up in the book, I want to curse at him. I want to kick him and scream at him. I WANT HIM DEAD IN THE GROUND . Jace ruined this novel for me than anything else. The self absorbed jerk . CLARY Actually, Clary isn't as annoying as I thought she was going to be. If she wasn't such a Mary Sue and a moron, maybe I could like her. Firstly, Let me give you the meme that describes Clary, [image error] Also, Firstly, Clary is such a flaming Mary Sue. She can create her own runes. Runes in this world are like spells in the Harry Potter world. Let's take Harry. Imagine he can create his won spells -- on the spot, mind you. Lets imagine they always work. Now, make his dad Voldemort. He's not a chosen one anymore, but his dad being Voldemort should make up for that, amirite? Her own BROTHER wants her. As in, wants to mate with her. Wants to run away with her. Gross. Secondly, she is an idiot. And by idiot, I mean utter and complete moron. \"Clary could see why they were called the Fair Folk, for they were fair indeed with their pale lovely faces, their wings of lilac and gold and blue\u2014how could she have believed Jace that they meant to harm her.\" Can I roll my eyes? Just because they look prrrtttyyyy, THEY CAN'T HARM ANYONE?? She is a block of wood. A prop. I was surprised that the story was even told from her point of view. She is rarely active. The entire novel, everything is happening to her, which can get vastly annoying. She isn't as whiny as Jace, thankfully, and not nearly as much of a jackass. But she is just...a block of wood. She is also a doormat. She lets everybody walk all over her -- and only protests when it has to do with Jace! She had to be told FIVE TIMES not to touch the magical fairy drink that would keep her dancing forever. FIVE TIMES. You'd think that after that long living in such an unpredictable magical world, she would have gotten a little bit of common sense and thought \"Oh God, maybe...just MAYBE...this isn't a good idea! Maybe I should listen when people who have lived in this world their entire lives talk to me!\" She never has any ideas. She never contributes anything. The only saving grace is her stupid rune making skills, which aren't used in the slightest to actually do important things. Honestly, if Clary was cut out of this book and replaced with a plant, I doubt it would have made much of a difference. MAGNUS A delicate mix between, and, The first thing that set me off about him was that he seemingly popped out of nowhere, only to be a healing plot device. Nobody had met him before, besides Alec. EDIT! : Actually, as lovely Jillian corrected me below, they HAD known Magnus. This is odd to me, because from their reactions upon encountering them, it seemed like they had no idea who he was. Well, another reason as how I don't think very highly of Clare's writing skills. I don't care if I come into a book seventy volumes late -- there are some things I should be able to pick up! This happens to be one of them. The second thing that set me off was when Alec sat on an end of a couch, only because (as Clare narrates) \"it was as far away from him as possible\". I get that this might have been because he didn't want anyone to think he was Magnus's boyfriend. I can deal with that. But then we have number three. \"Mother.\" Alec's voice as he interrupted his mother was firm, implacable, and not unkind. \"Father. There's something I have to tell you.\" He smiled at them. \"I'm seeing someone.\" Robert Lightwood looked at his son with some exasperation. \"Alec,\" he said. \"This is hardly the time.\" \"Yes, it is. This is important. You see, I'm not just seeing anyone.\" Words seemed to be pouring out of Alec in a torrent, while his parents looked on in confusion. Isabelle and Magnus were staring at him with expressions of nearly identical astonishment. \"I'm seeing a Downworlder. In fact, I'm seeing a war\u2014\" Magnus's fingers moved, quick as a flash of light, in Alec's direction. There was a faint shimmer in the air around Alec\u2014his eyes rolled up\u2014and he dropped to the floor, felled like a tree. \"Alec!\" Maryse clapped her hand to her mouth. Isabelle, who had been standing closest to her brother, dropped down beside him. But Alec had already begun to stir, his eyelids fluttering open. \"Wha\u2014what\u2014why am I on the floor?\" \"That's a good question.\" Isabelle glowered down at her brother. \"What was that?\" \"What was what?\" Alec sat up, holding his head. A look of alarm crossed his face. \"Wait\u2014 did I say anything? Before I passed out, I mean.\" Jace snorted. \"You know how we were wondering if that thing Clary did would work or not?\" he asked. \"It works all right.\" Alec looked supremely horrified. \"What did I say?\" \"You said you were seeing someone,\" his father told him. \"Though you weren't clear as to why that was important.\" \"It's not,\" Alec said. \"I mean, I'm not seeing anyone. And it's not important. Or it wouldn't be if I was seeing someone, which I'm not.\" Magnus looked at him as if he were an idiot. \"Alec's been delirious,\" he said. \"Side effect of some demon toxins. Most unfortunate, but he'll be fine soon.\" Can someone tell me that making your boyfriend forget what he was saying when he was just about to admit to his parents that he was seeing you is NOT creeper behavior??? VALENTINE There is a problem when I type your villain's name into Google and get a bunch of hearts and people kissing. However, I can move past this if your villain is actually menacing in the book. Valentine is not. I struggle to care about whatever he does. When Jace being an asshole outshines this guy murdering CHILDREN for some freaky power ritual, there is a problem. *sigh* ANYWAY, Those were the biggest problems, characterwise, I had with this book. Secondly, The Runes *sigh* It'd be nice if we could have actual RULES for these things. Like, levels of runes one can preform. What happens if you draw a wrong rune, what makes a rune -- you know, actual creative thought. Could we have explored this, when, I dunno, Clary was CREATING runes??? Too much to ask, I suppose. Thirdly , Plot of the book In pictures Firstly, Then some Jace angst. Then some werewolves. Then Jace being a jackass. [image error] Then some kissing. (Well, eventually anyway) Then some...vampires? Well, somewhere in the story there are vampires. Then, more boredom. Give or take more werewolves, more Jace being a jackass, Clary idiocy, and LOTS and LOTS of boredom... And then we get a bad guy showdown... It's a hell of a lot less interesting that that, though. More like this, And that's pretty much it. Oh, more kissing though. Fourthly , I am bored ... So, I will end this review. I've pretty much hit the nail on the hammer with everything that annoyed me anyway. However, YOU CAN LOOK NOW, THE IMMORTAL INSTRUMENTS FANS! I will state what I like. Maia Maia was one girl who I liked. She was interesting, she didn't stand around and do nothing -- she acknowledged Jace as an asshole and didn't try and throw him pity parties because he had a hard time -- she fought (most) of her own battles, and wasn't an annoying and whiny brat. HIGH FIVE. Maia and Simon Simon himself wasn't enough to get me to like him. He was a quipster, mostly, and his quipsterness with Maia's general awesomeness is a win. Her personality can suffice for his. I liked them together. They had chemistry. They had something. I liked how the \"Children of Night\" and \"Children of Moon\" finally got along -- to show that, HEY, we DON'T have to hate each other just because our ancestors did. That, was a win! Things I didn't Mind Alec, Isabelle... Alec? ... ... Isabelle??? ... ... Concluding Over all, this book wasn't my cup of tea. And I would not recommend it to anyone. BUT that doesn't mean there aren't some things that I DO like about it. Like Maia. And Simon. Woo. That was long. If You Are Enraged at My Review, Read This! This if my personal opinion and IF you feel like making a rebuttal to my points, please feel free to do so. However, I'd appreciate it if you refrained from ad-homenim attacks (aka Namecalling), saying I \"don't get it\" or \"don't liek don't read\". I'd really appreciate that. ADDITION YAY! 10/16/2011 How I became a devoted Jace/Simon shipper (Excerpt from the book.) Jace sank to his knees, still holding Simon's shoulder. He thought hopelessly of Clary, of her pain when she found out, of the way she'd crushed his hands in hers, so much strength in those small fingers. 'Find Simon. I know you will.' And he had. But it was too late. When Jace was ten, his father had explained to him all the ways to kill vampires. Stake them. Cut their heads off and set them to burning like eerie jack-o'-lanterns. Let the sun scorch them to ashes. Or drain their blood. They needed blood to live, they ran on it, like cars ran on gasoline. Looking at the ragged wound in Simon's throat, it wasn't hard to see what Valentine had done. Jace reached out to close Simon's staring eyes. If Clary had to see him dead, better she not see him like this. He moved his hand down to the collar of Simon's shirt, meaning to tug it up, to cover the gash. Simon moved. His eyelids twitched and opened, his eyes rolled back to the whites. He gurgled then, a faint sound, lips curling back, showing the points of vampire fangs. The breath rattled in his slashed throat. Nausea rose in the back of Jace's throat, his hand tightening on Simon's collar. He wasn't dead. But God, the pain, it must be incredible. He couldn't heal, couldn't regenerate, not without\u2014 Not without blood. Jace let go of Simon's shirt and dragged his right sleeve up with his teeth. Using the jagged tip of the broken strut, he slashed a deep cut lengthwise down his wrist. Blood gushed to the surface of the skin. He dropped the strut; it hit the metal floor with a clang. He could smell his own blood in the air, sharp and coppery. He looked down at Simon, who hadn't moved. The blood was running down Jace's hand now, his wrist stinging. He held it out over Simon's face, letting the blood drip down his fingers, spill onto Simon's mouth. There was no reaction. Simon wasn't moving. Jace moved closer; he was kneeling over Simon now, his breath making white puffs in the icy air. He leaned down, pressed his bleeding wrist against Simon's mouth. \"Drink my blood, idiot,\" he whispered. \"Drink it.\" For a moment nothing happened. Then Simon's eyes fluttered shut. Jace felt a sharp sting in his wrist, a sort of pull, a hard pressure\u2014and Simon's right hand flew up and clamped onto Jace's arm, just above the elbow. Simon's back arched off the floor, the pressure on Jace's wrist increasing. ...more All right, so when we last left our creepy incestuous couple, Draco had just found out his dad was Voldemort, not Lucius Malfoy. Clarmione also found out that Draco was her brother, so that hot makeout session they'd had partway through the first book was now kind of icky, and further physical involvement strictly verboten. So Voldemort is still alive! Oh noes. Enter the Clave and the Inquisitor, Dolores Umbridge. Umbridge has been sent to see if Draco is telling the truth that he had no idea Vol All right, so when we last left our creepy incestuous couple, Draco had just found out his dad was Voldemort, not Lucius Malfoy. Clarmione also found out that Draco was her brother, so that hot makeout session they'd had partway through the first book was now kind of icky, and further physical involvement strictly verboten. So Voldemort is still alive! Oh noes. Enter the Clave and the Inquisitor, Dolores Umbridge. Umbridge has been sent to see if Draco is telling the truth that he had no idea Voldemort was his dad this whole time (we were led to think Voldemort was dead because he blew up his house and left body parts that actually belonged to the real Malfoys, in a move reminiscent of Peter Pettigrew blowing up a ton of Muggles and his pinkie finger in order to frame Sirius Black). Ronrry is still in love with Clarmione, and they start dating, especially now that Clarmione is trying to squash down her incestuous feelings for her brother. Her mom is still in a coma. Voldemort meanwhile has the Mortal Cup, which, like, makes Inferi. So there's this sword, see, that knows when you're telling the truth. Kind of like Veritaserum-blade. It's held in the Silent City. Umbridge takes Draco down there and locks him up in the Silent City's Azkaban. But while he's there overnight, Voldemort shows up, kills the blind, mute monks, and steals the sword. Meanwhile, Clarmione and the Scoobies hurry down to the City of Bones to rescue Draco, and she uses some crazy Alohamora charm to open the doors and manacles, but it, like, totally blows the motherfucking place apart. This may be important later. It turns out the sword Voldemort has stolen is also a Mortal Instrument. It is the same sword the angel had in the Garden of Eden, when, you know, stuff happened after Adam and Eve sinned or something. So it's a tool of heaven, but there's this thing , see, where if you dip the sword in the blood of child versions of each of the four cool kinds of Downworlders (faerie, vampire, werewolf, warlock), you can, like, convert the blade into a Crazy Tool of Sin that makes all demons bend to your will and also calls them into your dimension. Or something. Obviously, Voldemort wants this very much. Voldemort already has the warlock blood from this stupid little shit from the prologue who summons a Boggart for him and then dies of fear. Turns out the stupid little shit warlock's biggest fear was that his pentagram would not hold back the power of a Boggart. Winning! Then he kills a faerie child in Central Park or some shit, and now the Seelie Court is Displeased. You don't fuck with faeries, man. You just don't. Draco is still in big trouble with Umbridge. Hoping for help, Draco, Clarmione, Ronrry, and, I don't know, Xander and Willow? Anyway, they all go to the Seelie Court to talk to the Faerie Queen. She's convinced it's the vampires, I mean, OBVIOUSLY, since vampires drain things of blood and stuff. She says that Draco and Clarmione have certain gifts that Voldemort gave them in creepy science experiments or such. Also, it is important to note that faeries are tricksy! They are tricksy and not to be trusted! The faeries lay out a faerie picnic for Draco, Clarmione, Ronrry, and the Scoobies. Draco tells them not to eat anything, but Clarmione has dipped her finger into the goblet and crushed a flower petal, then a pixie thing bites her finger, and she sucks on her finger, also drinking a bit of the juice. And once you've eaten faerie food, you have to stay in the faerie kingdom. Draco's like, \"This is effing ridiculous!\" so the Faerie Queen agrees to let Clarmione go if she kisses the person she desires most in the world. And, hint, it's not Ronrry Pottsley. So there's a full-on V.C. Andrews disturbing brother-sister make-out session that ... wow, it goes on for quite some time. And everyone's watching. The Faerie Queen is obviously a V.C. Andrews fan, because she lets Clarmione go, but Ronrry won't look at her, and he runs off as soon as they're back in Manhattan. Um, so then Ronrry gets turned into a vampire. I'm serious. Snapin and one of the wolves from his pack, Leah, get attacked by the slug things from Doublemeat Palace. He shows up in Bella's truck. Leah's badly injured. She also freaks out when she runs into Ronrry the Vampire, even though they were sort of friendly earlier. Snapin says he's going to the truck to repark it, but he disappears, and Clarmione and Draco go in search of him, fighting off more slug things. Snapin is also crazy injured, so Gay Xander calls his fab Grand Warlock secret boyfriend to come heal everyone up. Draco sneaks off, having found out from Doublemeat Palace Slug where Voldemort is hiding. He rides Sirius Black's vampire-owned flying motorcycle to the Black Pearl ship in the middle of the East River. He is faced with a Boggart, and he sees Clary dead. Voldemort calls off the Boggart, and then he's all, \"If you join me, Skywalker, I will make sure none of your friends get hurt.\" Draco holds the sword for a moment and sees all the demons about to break through into our dimension. The Scoobies are trying to figure out what Clarmionie's gift is, and she can, like, write Runes that no one even KNOWS, kind of the way Lyra can read the Althiometer. They challenge her to create a Rune to take away fear, and she TOTALLY DOES. They put it on Gay Xander's body, and then when Gay Xander's parents show up, he has SO LITTLE FEAR that he just about outs himself from the Big Gay Shadowhunter Closet until Draco stops him. Umm, what else? Umbridge catches up to them again because she'd put a tracer on the shard of the two-way mirror thing that Sirius gave Harry and he'd see Dumbledore's eye in--remember that? Anyway, so she knows exactly where Draco's been and locks him up until further notice in a room at Hogwarts-Manhattan campus, putting him in this magical cage made of angel blades and electric fencing. She says her plan is to trade Draco to Voldemort for the Mortal Instruments. Of course Voldemort would choose his own son over a cup and a sword, right? Umbridge seems upset about SOMETHING LIKE MAYBE HER SON WAS KILLED SOMEHOW BY VOLDEMORT, but no one can figure it out even though it's pretty obvious if you have more than one working brain cell. The cage, however, doesn't have a lid, because Umbridge isn't that smart, so Draco, with Gay Xander's help, leaps out of the top like a cat, or perhaps Superman. Meanwhile, Leah has leapt out the window to go apologize to Ronrry. But then she runs into the ghost of her dead, sociopathic, abusive twin brother, and really it's the Boggart, and Voldemort catches her! Ronrry is on the phone with Clarmione when he says that someone is breaking into his house. It's Voldemort. Somehow Draco puts together that Voldemort needs child vampire and child werewolf blood still, and that that's why he wanted Ronrry the Vampire and Leah. The Vampire fell in love with the Werewolf. I mean, the vampire and the werewolf wake up on the Black Pearl in the East River. Gay Xander and Willow eavesdrop outside the room where Voldemort has hologram-conference-called in with Umbridge, where he rejects her offer, and she's all, \"What the what?\" Gay Xander and Willow bust in and tell them everything that's going on, and Umbridge goes slightly catatonic, but calls the rest of the Clave and the adult Order of the Phoenix people who are around at the moment. Ronrry and Leah are chained up on the Black Pearl. Voldemort comes in and slashes Ronrry the Vampire's throat. Draco and Clarmione and Snapin climb into Bella's truck, and they race off to the Black Pearl. Big Gay Warlock has put a charm onto Bella's truck and changed it to the Weasley's Ford Anglia, which now is like a duck boat and can drive right over the water. Draco asks Clarmione to put the \"fearless\" rune on his skin, which she does. Big battle, demons, whatever, it goes on forever and I really don't care. Umbridge dies saving Draco. Clarmione finds Leah, who tells her that Ronrry is dead. She frees Leah and runs to find Voldemort. Draco finds Ronrry's body ... but he's not dead ... yet. Draco lets him feed off of him like that one time in Season 3 of Buffy when Angel gets hit with that arrow dipped in poison that is deadly to vampires unless they drink the blood of a Slayer, and Buffy punches Angel in the face until he drinks from her. It's kind of like that. So Ronrry is just fine. Draco then kills the Boggart because he is FEARLESS, see? He's fearless. Clarmione tries to face off with Voldemort, and everyone ends up in a room together: Clarmione, Voldemort, Draco, Ronrry, Leah. Wait, is Leah there? I don't remember, and I just finished the book like half an hour ago. Anyway, it looks like they're all going to die horribly and Voldemort is going to win, but then Clarmione draws this Rune on the floor that makes the entire Black Pearl disintegrate and explode simultaneously. They do that Harry Potter thing where everyone is unconscious after the big battle thing, and when they wake up, they get the explanations and the denouement. Everyone thought Clarmione was dead, and Draco saved Ronrry by putting him on a floating metal hunk in the river, much like Leo di Caprio put Kate Winslet on the door so she doesn't freeze in the Atlantic after the Titanic sinks. The sun is rising, and Ronrry will die and explode because sunlight-non-sparkly-vampires-it-burns syndrome. But it turns out he's just fine because he was mostly filled with Draco blood. He's still a vampire, but he won't be killed by the sun. Ronrry breaks up with Clarmione because he thinks he'd be better off with another Downworlder, like, hanging out with Leah. Because they are a crazy vampire/werewolf couple who can totally MAKE IT WORK. Clarmione is going to tell Draco that fuck it, she doesn't care if it's incest, but then Draco's all, \"I'll just love you as a brother, because that's what you want, right?\" And she agrees. Then there's a lady waiting outside the hospital where her mom's still in a coma. It turns out that her mom put the coma on herself so Voldemort wouldn't get the answers he wanted out of her. The lady was apparently the Secret-Keeper in this scenario, so she tells Clarmione that she can wake her mom from the coma THE END THE END THE END! And that's what happens in this wholly original book. ...more I didn't go online, hardly talked, didn't eat (ok so I did eat), didn't watch TV just so I could finish this book. So basically I spent the whole day reading and I'm just bursting at the seams to read the next one. The tension in the book is so great that you feel like the characters are literally going to break from the strain. Clary's mother is still in a coma and her relationships with Simon and Jace are fragile. At one point you just feel so down for everyone. Clary seemed to be getting in th I didn't go online, hardly talked, didn't eat (ok so I did eat), didn't watch TV just so I could finish this book. So basically I spent the whole day reading and I'm just bursting at the seams to read the next one. The tension in the book is so great that you feel like the characters are literally going to break from the strain. Clary's mother is still in a coma and her relationships with Simon and Jace are fragile. At one point you just feel so down for everyone. Clary seemed to be getting in the way sometimes. Like she is more a liability rather than an asset. No worries in the end we get to see some real gumption from her. It's ever changing who is my favorite. I'll be thinking Isabelle is my favorite wait...no Max he's really cute but....Luke is great...then again Simon is just so painfully loyal , so I still don't have a clear favorite. I think it's because each and everyone of the characters have their own great scenes, so it's close to impossible to choose. We see the same quick action sequences, same hilarious sarcastic remarks, and the same heart. Granted it can get over dramatic but that's why we are all reading it! I just think it's precious how with all their shadowhunter abilities they still have to rely on mundane technology, like cell phones. I must say they find themselves in some pretty sticky situations; the people and the cell phones. Jace is growing on me and Valentine is definitely getting more evil. One thing that kind of bothered me was that Valentine doesn't seem too clever. He hasn't done anything like WOW I didn't see that coming. He is suppose to be overthrowing the whole Clave, so he's got to be ultra smart right? Another little irk I had was when Simon was gone for the whole night or a good chunk of the day from his house, we never see the explanation he gives his mom. In the real world he would have to deal with that, but as the reader I get the impression that his mom doesn't care. I doubt that's the case though. Oh and does everything have to taste, smell, and look like metal? Just saying... We are getting some serious hints that Jace's lineage is not what we think it is and I'm glad to see Simon trying to be the bigger person, however hard that may be. I definitely thought the second one was better than the first. New characters, more knowledge, and closer to seeing how this is all going to turn out. Bring it on because I'm ready for more! ...more Well that was awkward. *** SPOILERGRAM*** But before we head down the path of outrageous incest, I will say that <+++>City of Ashes</+++> was better than City of Bones. The pace was an improvement on that of the latter. Simon was still awesome as ever. I also felt that Ms Clare branched out a wee bit with her creativity with the Vampire transformation stuff, (except that I knew it was coming thanks to a certain Filipino minx who spilt the beans in a comment. You know who you are). As for the abomination that Well that was awkward. *** SPOILERGRAM*** But before we head down the path of outrageous incest, I will say that <+++>City of Ashes</+++> was better than City of Bones. The pace was an improvement on that of the latter. Simon was still awesome as ever. I also felt that Ms Clare branched out a wee bit with her creativity with the Vampire transformation stuff, (except that I knew it was coming thanks to a certain Filipino minx who spilt the beans in a comment. You know who you are). As for the abomination that is the Clary/Jace lustfest: Well, it\u2019s a good thing I have a good gag reflex. Listen. Goodreaders. I\u2019m no prude. In fact I am NOTHING if not open minded. But I\u2019m sorry. No one fancies their own brother. No one. I understand that they didn\u2019t realise they were related until after the forbidden lust developed. But there is no goddamn way in Vegas that the two of them wouldn\u2019t recoil from each other in utter repulsion upon making this discovery. I\u2019m no more inclined to accept this nonsense than I am to suddenly believe that I am Kate Moss. Now before you get all Captain Obvious on me: I too can spot the hints that they may not actually be related in the afterall. This is not the effing point! The point is: THEY DON\u2019T KNOW THAT! ...more Picking up where 'City of Bones' left off, 'City of Angels' doesn't waste any time before plunging you right back into this supernatural world. This book was packed with action and adventure. With ever-changing information and plenty of teenage angst, this cast of characters tries to stay one step ahead of Valentine, making for a highly entertaining read. Still reeling from the news that they're siblings, Jace and Clary struggle with their feelings toward one another. Awkward doesn't begin to des Picking up where 'City of Bones' left off, 'City of Angels' doesn't waste any time before plunging you right back into this supernatural world. This book was packed with action and adventure. With ever-changing information and plenty of teenage angst, this cast of characters tries to stay one step ahead of Valentine, making for a highly entertaining read. Still reeling from the news that they're siblings, Jace and Clary struggle with their feelings toward one another. Awkward doesn't begin to describe the dynamic between these two after that cat was let out of the bag. Maybe it's just my wishful thinking, but I'm betting that somewhere down the road we'll find out that they aren't really siblings after all. I just refuse to believe that they won't end up together. While the blooming romance between Jace and Clary came to an abrupt and uncomfortable halt, Simon steps out of the shadows. With Jace out of his way, Simon decides to pursue his feelings for Clary. He's always wanted to be more than just her friend and now is his chance. Soon, Simon finds himself experiencing a major, and unexpected, life change. Nothing will ever be the same for him. He is forever changed, as is his relationship with Clary and everyone he's ever held dear. Like Simon, Clary and Jace begin to discover changes within themselves. Valentine made it clear that they were \"different\", but didn't give any details. Little by little, they begin to figure out some of their unique abilities. Although it is early-on in this series, it is evident that they are powerful and their full strength is as of yet unknown. Overall, I thought this was a great continuation of this series. I am enjoying these characters more and more as the story evolves. I don't know what is in store for them, but am certain that we've not seen the last of Valentine yet. I'm on to the next audiobook now. ...more I can't do it. I just can't. Screw this series. My problem with this series isn't the writing. I'm not one to judge books by the writing since I am pretty terrible at it myself. My problem also isn't exactly the story, which I probably could like. Sort of. I think. I don't know. But anyways, my main problem isn't any of that. It's the characters. How can you continue with a series when you feel nothing but pure hatred towards the characters? They all just infuriated me to no end. Jace Wayland especi I can't do it. I just can't. Screw this series. My problem with this series isn't the writing. I'm not one to judge books by the writing since I am pretty terrible at it myself. My problem also isn't exactly the story, which I probably could like. Sort of. I think. I don't know. But anyways, my main problem isn't any of that. It's the characters. How can you continue with a series when you feel nothing but pure hatred towards the characters? They all just infuriated me to no end. Jace Wayland especially. He was nothing but a painfully arrogant jackass. I tried to give this series a chance, but that was pretty much the last straw. I simply will not continue on with it, and guess what? ...more 4 Family Matters Stars Spoilers Short and sweet so I can get to the next book. Wow City of Ashes was action packed and full of teenage angst. And I loved it! I feel this book focused a lot on Simon and all the changes that happen to him. I liked seeing the character growth in this book for Clary, Jace, Simon, Alec, and Izzy. I really didn't like Maryse, I felt like she really let Jace down. Poor Jace it was like no one loved Jace. Everyone turned their back on him or let him down even Clary. All 4 Family Matters Stars Spoilers Short and sweet so I can get to the next book. Wow City of Ashes was action packed and full of teenage angst. And I loved it! I feel this book focused a lot on Simon and all the changes that happen to him. I liked seeing the character growth in this book for Clary, Jace, Simon, Alec, and Izzy. I really didn't like Maryse, I felt like she really let Jace down. Poor Jace it was like no one loved Jace. Everyone turned their back on him or let him down even Clary. All he wants is to be loved! Clary had it hard too. I understand where she was coming from. She loved Jace but can't be with him and she loves Simon like a brother but he wants more and she feels like she needs to give that to him. She really had some emotional stuff to deal with. I felt like Jace really maned up in this book. He stepped up and did some great things especially for Simon. My hate for Valentine(or as I like to call him Paranormal Hitler) grew by leaps and bounds in this book. Cassandra Clare did a great job of writing a evil,psychopathic, bigot bad guy. I flew through this book in one day. I got nothing done today but feeding my children lol. I just couldn't put it down. Great read. Now I am on to the next book and I can't wait to see what happens next! ...more I'm beginning to understand why people prefer Jace Wayland to Edward Cullen. I have to OH SNAP the ending. Is it March yet? I want City of Glass NOW. \"That when he thought, really thought, about the fact that he might never get to kiss Clary again, he wanted to die or hurt or bleed so badly he\u2019d go up to the attic and train alone for hours until he was so exhausted he had no choice but to pass out, exhausted.\" Oh for fuck's sake. \"He\u2019d have bruises in the morning, bruises and cuts and scraped skin and if he could have named all his injuries they would have had the same name: Clary, Clary, Clary.\" OH FOR FUCK'S SAKE. \"If there had ever been any ho \"That when he thought, really thought, about the fact that he might never get to kiss Clary again, he wanted to die or hurt or bleed so badly he\u2019d go up to the attic and train alone for hours until he was so exhausted he had no choice but to pass out, exhausted.\" Oh for fuck's sake. \"He\u2019d have bruises in the morning, bruises and cuts and scraped skin and if he could have named all his injuries they would have had the same name: Clary, Clary, Clary.\" OH FOR FUCK'S SAKE. \"If there had ever been any hope that he could have come to think of Clary as just his sister, this \u2014 what had just happened between them \u2014 had exploded it into a thousand pieces like a meteorite blasting into the surface of the earth.\" Moar similes please! MOAR. This actually made me throw up a little in my mouth. Damn my masochism. ...more Reread: January, 2016 1st Read : July, 2014 This series continues to amaze me! I loved it the first time I read it and even gets better the second time around. There are lots of crazy and hilarious moments in this installment. The characters are all engaging and the way they interact really entertains me. I especially love Simon and Jace's banters here. And that part when they went to The Seelie Court -- my favorite part! Although Jace kind of disappoints me with his moody attitude, I still can't r Reread: January, 2016 1st Read : July, 2014 This series continues to amaze me! I loved it the first time I read it and even gets better the second time around. There are lots of crazy and hilarious moments in this installment. The characters are all engaging and the way they interact really entertains me. I especially love Simon and Jace's banters here. And that part when they went to The Seelie Court -- my favorite part! Although Jace kind of disappoints me with his moody attitude, I still can't resist him in this book. The forbidden romance, the great character development, and the pacing of the book are impressive and all worth the highlight. ...more Ok first things first, kids -- the whole Cersei Clary and Jaime Jace thing is straight up weird. Like even if he turns out to not be her brother (nobody tell me anything), they still think they're siblings right now and are really not making a strong effort to not be in love... It's just unnecessarily drawn out and got kind of old. Like so much of the plot is this odd sexual tension: \"The gold in his eyes had turned hard, metallic. She wondered for a moment if he might actually spring at her, wha Ok first things first, kids -- the whole Cersei Clary and Jaime Jace thing is straight up weird. Like even if he turns out to not be her brother (nobody tell me anything), they still think they're siblings right now and are really not making a strong effort to not be in love... It's just unnecessarily drawn out and got kind of old. Like so much of the plot is this odd sexual tension: \"The gold in his eyes had turned hard, metallic. She wondered for a moment if he might actually spring at her, what it would be like if he struck her down, grabbed her wrists even. Fighting to him was like sex to other people. The thought of him touching her like that brought the blood to her cheeks in a hot flood.\" WTF on every level. But aside from that fascinating method of adding obstacles to the plot, the story itself was entertaining enough. I got a better sense of a lot of the characters and could tolerate Jace more in this book when he toned down his \"humor.\" Clary even developed half of a personality, so there is growth! I want to see more of Alec + Magnus, though. The creative worldbuilding is definitely the best part... I think I would've liked this series more when I was younger, though. At least I liked this one more than the first book! ...more City of Ashes by Cassandra Clare Actual Rating: 3.75/5 This book was so much better than the first in my opinion, but I could be thinking this way because my vision of the first book in the series was clouded by my vision of the movie, but, nonetheless I really enjoyed this book a lot more. I rated this book a 3.75 stars, so that there's room for higher ratings as the series goes on (and hopefully gets better) City of Ashes got the 4 stars because it had me constantly thinking about the book, and f City of Ashes by Cassandra Clare Actual Rating: 3.75/5 This book was so much better than the first in my opinion, but I could be thinking this way because my vision of the first book in the series was clouded by my vision of the movie, but, nonetheless I really enjoyed this book a lot more. I rated this book a 3.75 stars, so that there's room for higher ratings as the series goes on (and hopefully gets better) City of Ashes got the 4 stars because it had me constantly thinking about the book, and finally I've connected to the characters more, which was one of my major problems about City of Bones! The characters in this book, I felt became so much more complex, and I actually found myself caring about them (yay), and can I just say that Cassandra Clare can write some amazing characters, with the perfect amount of humour. Having read Clockwork Angel, I can say that this woman is a character making genius . I really enjoyed Jace a lot more in this book, he reminds me of Mr. Will Herondale in many ways ;) I also appreciated Isabelle, Magnus and Alec a lot more, and can't wait to see where the character development will go in the book to come. Maia was also a great addition to the story. The only slight problem I may have had with this instalment is that sometimes the writing drags a bit with certain concepts, I don't know, I'm probably just being bitter because Cassandra Clare always creates such complicated and amazing worlds that take me a little longer to read than most other books, due to a lot more thought having to be devoted to the writing. I guess in a way though, that's definitely props to Miss. Clare, and I have no doubt in my mind that this series WILL get better as her writing matures. City of Ashes delves deeper into the war conflict between the shadow hunters and Valentine. I absolutely loved all the different aspects of supernatural characters, it created a very Supernatural/Charmed effect, and those are two of my favourite TV-Shows of all time. I really hope that more paranormalness (not a word, but of well), is explored in the coming books, and that the shadow hunter world continues to become even better and provide me with more excitement and some surprises would be nice too ;) I can't wait to read City of Glass because I've heard it's most peoples favourite! So proud of myself that I randomly decided to start reading this, as I wasn't sure if I'd ever continue with this series, even though I wanted to... but here I am. ahh, relief :) ...more I know I just now finished the second book of this series, but it feels like such an accomplishment every time I finish a book. I've seriously fell in love with this series so much. More than I ever expected to and I'm hoping I can stay with this series until the end since most people have said they stopped more or less halfway through. But so far, I've been so wrapped up in the Shadowhunter world that I don't see myself stopping any time soon! I'm so excited to see what else The Mortal Instrume I know I just now finished the second book of this series, but it feels like such an accomplishment every time I finish a book. I've seriously fell in love with this series so much. More than I ever expected to and I'm hoping I can stay with this series until the end since most people have said they stopped more or less halfway through. But so far, I've been so wrapped up in the Shadowhunter world that I don't see myself stopping any time soon! I'm so excited to see what else The Mortal Instruments has to offer. That being said, I do have a question about the order in which I'm supposed to read both The Mortal Instruments and The Infernal Devices. Some people say to read both TMI and TID at the same time based on publication dates because TMI spoils a few details from TID. But others say that it's fine to finish TMI and then start TID afterwards. Can anyone tell me which order would be best to read The Mortal Instruments and The Infernal Devices? ...more WOWEEEEEE. Well that was WAY better than the first book. I am FEELING some FEELS. \u201cIf you really love something, you never try to keep it the way it is forever. You have to let it be free to change.\u201d City of Ashes (CoA) follows right after what happened in book one. The tension between Jace and Clary is tortuous, I can't even fathom how deep the rupture grows, but it sure affects everyone in this book. I appraise the story that it gets better, the twists and narrative sounds intriguing from the start except Clary. I don't know what makes her annoying like that, she can't st \u201cIf you really love something, you never try to keep it the way it is forever. You have to let it be free to change.\u201d City of Ashes (CoA) follows right after what happened in book one. The tension between Jace and Clary is tortuous, I can't even fathom how deep the rupture grows, but it sure affects everyone in this book. I appraise the story that it gets better, the twists and narrative sounds intriguing from the start except Clary. I don't know what makes her annoying like that, she can't stop herself from thinking Jace is the one she wants. Idk, but it's predictable (view spoiler) [that they are not the siblings (hide spoiler) ] . Anyway, it didn't stop me from reeling with every scene Clary turns up. \u201cPain is only what you allow it to be\u201d CC added the addition to the Shadowhunters world, it gave more dimensions and details to focus on. Some characters were developed, but some were not. I came to think of the ending was kind of dragged, but in an acceptable way. We haven't seen what Jace and Clare are going to do next and have to wait until City of Glass. \u201cHe had become a monster. You just couldn't see it...because it wore the face of a friend.\u201d CoA is readable by the way even though it's not my favorite from CC, it still cracked me up and fueled me to crave more of YA books like this. Sadly, the movie was cancelled and we have to wait for the series instead. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more City of Ashes; a (very) brief summary : Clary: Jace: Simon: JacexClary: Plot: Me: The end. (Maybe one day, when I grow up and become a real girl, I'll write a proper review) The following review is filled with spoilers, whining, complaining, ranting, and the destruction of everything people love about this series. Please read responsibly. When last we left our intrepid heroes, Clary \"Mary Sue\" Frey discovered she was part of a super special group of people called Shadowhunters. (That should be two words, by the way.) She falls for shmexy jerk-face Jace, only to find out that he is her brother and that they are the long lost children of stock baddie, Valent... Oh, I c The following review is filled with spoilers, whining, complaining, ranting, and the destruction of everything people love about this series. Please read responsibly. When last we left our intrepid heroes, Clary \"Mary Sue\" Frey discovered she was part of a super special group of people called Shadowhunters. (That should be two words, by the way.) She falls for shmexy jerk-face Jace, only to find out that he is her brother and that they are the long lost children of stock baddie, Valent... Oh, I can't do this. This book only had one thing going for it. Good pacing. But even that couldn't save it from a whole host of other issues. Many of them were the same as with the first novel: bad characterization, terrible metaphors, and inconsistency. Now that I'm the second novel into the series, I will bring up another issue Clare has: shallow and generic world building. First off, my reaction: IF YOU WEREN'T A LIBRARY BOOK, I WOULD BURN YOU! A little dramatic, but I think you get my point. Now for the Character Breakdown! Clary: In my last review , I complained how Clary was just a mean, whiny little girl. Well, this time around, she's not as whiny. She's just a complete bitch. Yup. I said it. Clary is a bitch. She strings Simon along, bosses people around, and yells at the poor guy on the subway who wanted to see if she was okay. I happened to be reading the Dragon Ball manga in between reading this monstrosity, and came across this panel of Frieza with his arms folded and a bubble that said, \"Stop saying stupid things.\" After that, every time Clary spoke or thought, that image popped into my head. I'd post it here if I didn't want to get busted for copyright infringement. (Cough, Clare. Cough.) My point is, Clary is not likable, at all. At. All. I do not sympathize with her plight. I feel nothing. Part of this could have to do with her Mary-Sueness. Clare wants her to be oh so beautiful, oh so powerful, and oh so wonderful. She never gets so seriously hurt that a healing rune can't fix it, and she saves everyone else with runes she pulls out of her ass. At one point Magnus says that things can't be created out of no where, and then Clary does it. But then Clare throws in something about hearing angels, and then doesn't clarify. It makes no sense right now. She's just so friggin' special. It's just, uh... She frustrates me so much there are no words for it. It is further exacerbated by her pining for Jace. Even if they didn't think they were related at the moment (because I know they aren't), there is something uncomfortable about it. It could be because they're both irritating. Which brings me to my next character... Jace: What is wrong with this kid? His daddy issues are so overblown, they have their own daddy issues. He pines, he whines, he makes me want to punch him in his smart-assed face. At least he wears jeans occasionally this time. Yet he still makes so many hard-headed, stupid decisions that get other people into trouble, I would lock him up just to keep others safe. He's really bad for the other characters' health. Clare goes out of her way to make him seem like the perfect warrior. She goes so far as to have Clary (Stop saying stupid things.) mention that fighting is just like sex for Jace. This made me hang my head and shake it. Pop culture has its share of war-loving races. If you've seen an episode of Star Trek:TNG that goes into Klingon culture, then you get what I'm talking about. Sparing is foreplay. Hell, in ancient Sparta, men had to capture their wives. A man was successful if he didn't get the holy hell beaten out of him because the women were just as well trained. Knowing this, I couldn't believe Clare went there. Jace comes off as having a death wish. I never got the sense he \"got-off\" fighting things in this sequel. Clare doesn't really understand that a true warrior prefers to talk with his fighting skills than with words, and Jace uses a lot of words. My point is that Jace spends most of the book being self-centered and stubborn than anything else. And again, I could care less about him. Dude just ain't healthy to be around. Simon: I have mixed feelings about him. I want to say that Clare ruined him, but he's the only one who doesn't worship the Mary-Sue that is Clary even though he says he's in love with her. He knows she's stringing him along, even when they're \"dating,\" and knows he will never have her full attention. I would prefer him not to lurv her except as a friend, but love triangles are all the rage these days. Especially when a vampire is involved. Yup, Simon becomes Vampy Simon because for some reason urban fantasies just can't stand having normal humans running around. They're weak and die very easily, in case you didn't know. So, Simon is turned and has to cope with the change. I think Clare had a rare moment when he and Clary discuss how to tell his parents. As someone who lives with a photosensitive disorder, I connected for that brief moment. I know what it's like to look outside and see how high the sun is so I can avoid it. I thought this book might have been better if it was about Simon having to cope with a drastic life change, but then Clare ruins it, as she ruins everything else. At the end, Simon doesn't burn up in the sun. I wasn't pissed. I was absolutely livid. Clare dodged about a thousand difficult decisions she would have to make as a writer by doing that. First off, kill Simon. If she had make it where clothes could protect vampires (which I don't understand why not), then he would have to tell his parents. But that would be heartbreaking and tragic! Clare, you are such a lazy writer. Isabelle: Shallow dominatrix in hooker heels. That's how she comes across in this book. Thanks, dear author. She couldn't be more of a stereotype. Alec: Cinder blocks have more personality. He's just kind of there. Even when the writing is from is point of view, I don't get a distinct sense of anything. Even his relationship with Magnus is just... meh. Magnus: A character as usual. The only one who made me laugh. His relationship with Alec... Gurl, you can do better! If those homoerotic scenes between Jace and Simon were any indication, you could always go after one of them. Luke: Not quite as bad ass this time around. Kind of a disappointment. Happy he's alive though. Jocelyn: Still in a coma, and put herself in it. I have no words for how convenient this device is. Inquisitor Imogen: Plot pawn. You read that right. Her whole purpose was to act like a moron and almost give Jace important information. Almost. We can't be giving anything away until the sequel. People need to buy them, you know. Maia: This poor girl has so much promise, but because she's a crummy Downworlder (should also be two words) Clare doesn't really give two damns about her. I really, really like her. It was a shame she was introduced via info-dump, but other than that I preferred her over any other female in this book. Daddy V: Sigh. Still pretty generic. The worst part, he's a heavy handed Lucifer reference. Clare practically brains you with it when she gave him the last name Morgenstern, or Morningstar. Then she tries the whole sympathy-for-the-devil shtick by having him have a conversation about Milton's Paradise Lost with Jace, because whenever Clare wants the reader to draw parallels between her characters and vastly superior works, she name-drops them like an Acme anvil. I get that she's got the whole fallen angel angle she's trying to work, but she only makes her writing look weaker by bringing up the good stuff. That said, I'm not hating on Daddy V or Jace because their assholes or bad guys. I like those types too, even if they're pretty unredeemable. They could be the most deplorable bastard this side of the Milky Way, but if they're interesting, then I'm good. Clare's characters do not fit under even that title. All those years writing fan fiction must have not taught her character development skills. Besides her characters, there is also the problem with her writing. When I mean writing, I mean the actual words used and the devices she employs like metaphors. That's right, I'm about to throw sentence after sentence of terrible word choices at you, dear reader. In 3, 2, 1... \"... like a glittering needle threading the sky.\" Needles don't thread, they pierce. Needles are threaded. Not the other way around. \"... there was a tightness in her voice when she spoke his name, as if invisible acids were drying up the syllables in her mouth ...\" Jace is one syllable. Did you mean the whole sentence? [Simon's eyes] were the color of black coffee - not really black, but a rich brown without a touch of grey or hazel.\" I think that one speaks for itself. Referencing Jace's face: \"It was like a book written in a foreign language she'd studied all to briefly.\" So she couldn't read it. That's easier to say. Not as creepy. Referencing a voice: \"... its sound of cold iron.\" When iron is cold, isn't it just cold? The opening of Jace's cell: \"A noise like ripping cloth tore through the room. (The sound depends on the fabric, but its never very impressive.) Clary heard Isabelle cry out as the door blew off its hinges entirely, crashing into the cell like a draw bridge falling. (If it blew off it's hinges, why did it just topple over?) Clary could hear other noises, metal coming uncoupled from metal, aloud rattle like a handful of tossed pebbles. (Pebbles do not sound metallic on their own.)\" Referring to Shadowhunter crowd: \"Instead they seemed to go still, the way a pride of lions might go still when it spotted a gazelle.\" So they looked at them like food? Referring to Simon digging himself out: \"The grave was roiling like the surface of an unsteady ocean. Ripples appeared in its surface...\" Dirt ripples. Riiight. \"The glow of Jace's seraph blade send elegant arcs of light shattering across the water...\" This is not the word you are looking for. \"The sword seemed to shimmer blackly in the starlight.\" That's it, I quit. There are so many more, but I'll stop there because they're making me physically sick. I was going to bring up instances of words she used improperly (she said the ship had a corrugated steel hull), but I wanted to bring up something that I've noticed confused other reviewers: the purpose of The Clave. I admit, this baffles me too. We're 2 books in and I've got the idea that they're supernatural police with an elitist point of view. They say they're protecting the \"mundanes\" (She totally ripped that off from Fables .), but Shadowhunters treat Downworlders more like sub-beings than anything else. It's like they're not even people anymore. When Daddy V says they're corrupt, he's right, but not in the way he believes. All of Clare's best characters are Downworlders. They come across as more human than her main characters Jace and Clary, who are both Shadowhunters. They've got that imperfection to them that makes them relatable. They put up with all the crap the Shadowhunters throw at them to help save the day. We, the reader, are supposed to like the Shadowhunters, but I don't. They're prejudiced jackasses. They don't see people. They see monsters. Both Jace and Clary have slipped into that mindset at some point, and Alec is too much of a coward to admit he's in a relationship with a warlock. All Clare's antagonist wants to do is replace one elitist system with another, and I hope that both end up broken at the end. The Clave doesn't really deserve to be saved, but Daddy V shouldn't win either. Clare tries to make Shadowhunters the good guys, but they come off as people who don't think their farts stink. And at the same time, about a thousand pages later, they're useless. City of Ashes gets one star for her heroes being terrible people masquerading as the good guys. I know it wasn't intentional, but that's my point. I'm so tired of these people. I'm going to watch Grimm . If you liked this review, I've got more: The Original Mortal Instruments Trilogy City of Bones City of Glass The Infernal Devices Clockwork Angel Clockwork Prince ...more For the love of God! Will someone kill Valentine already? He's getting on my last nerve! Okay here I am having read the second book again. I have one more to go and then I will be reading the ones I haven't read yet. As I was going along I could remember it so that's a good thing! Oh and I will be adding SPOILERS for those that haven't read it yet. And look at my beautiful UK edition \u2665 Although, it would be a better picture if I would actually get up and make a pretty scene but I digress. So Simon For the love of God! Will someone kill Valentine already? He's getting on my last nerve! Okay here I am having read the second book again. I have one more to go and then I will be reading the ones I haven't read yet. As I was going along I could remember it so that's a good thing! Oh and I will be adding SPOILERS for those that haven't read it yet. And look at my beautiful UK edition \u2665 Although, it would be a better picture if I would actually get up and make a pretty scene but I digress. So Simon turns into a vampire!! I couldn't remember what book he did that in so now I know. I really hope he makes a cool vampire because even though I like him. Nerds rule! But he's sort of a twat every now and then. Come to think of it, most of them are, but I love them anyway. Well, Magnus Bane is all that and sugar on top for me. He is the only one besides Luke that is totally cool at all times. So far anyway. So that jerk Valentine comes back trying to get The Soul-Sword so he can wreck more havoc. He has some demon thing going around killing this that and the other. That a-hole killed Brother Jeremiah and all of his brothers as well. That makes me really mad. I mean really mad! Why???? Anyway, Alec and Isabelle's mom, Maryse comes to the Institute to see what in the hell is going on with everyone. She brings their little brother Max too. I love him \u2665 She's all bent out of shape thinking that Jace (whom she raised) is on his fathers (Valentine) side. I mean get real! We have faeries and more wolf action. And I know I mentioned Simon is a vampire now! Please don't be a dork vampire Simon. Oh and there is some cool stuff that might happen with Clary's mom according to the ending of the book. But who knows, I can't remember! We shall see. I'm still enjoying these books! Yay! MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List ...more This book was much better than the first. And I love Simon. ****DO NOT READ THIS IF YOU HAVEN'T READ CITY OF BONES**** This is an outstanding follow-up to City of Bones. In City of Ashes, we find Jace and Clarey dealing with the personal fall-out from City of Bones, Alec and Isabelle not as visible but are still included, Simon still mackin' on Clarey but finds his own bit of trouble, and Magnus Bane cementing himself as the flamboyant, awesome warlock I knew he would be. And then there's the psychopathic Valentine....grrrr.... \"You think she'll be able to ****DO NOT READ THIS IF YOU HAVEN'T READ CITY OF BONES**** This is an outstanding follow-up to City of Bones. In City of Ashes, we find Jace and Clarey dealing with the personal fall-out from City of Bones, Alec and Isabelle not as visible but are still included, Simon still mackin' on Clarey but finds his own bit of trouble, and Magnus Bane cementing himself as the flamboyant, awesome warlock I knew he would be. And then there's the psychopathic Valentine....grrrr.... \"You think she'll be able to talk some sense into him?\" she asked. \"His sister?\" \"If he listens to anyone, it would be her.\" \"That's sweet,\" said Maia. \"That he loves his sister like that.\" \"Yeah,\" Simon said. \"It's precious.\" I'm using the quote above because it sets the tone for City of Ashes . The realization that Clarey and Jace are \"supposedly\" siblings is the driving force behind this book. While City of Bones is the story of the Shadowhunters and Clarey's introduction to them, City of Ashes deals with the fall-out of the previous book and with Clarey's acceptance of her place in the Shadowhiunter world. While heavy emotional scenes are happening, there is at least always someone, like Simon or Magnus, to lighten the load with sarcasm. At the beginning of CoB, Clarey and Jace are still on uncertain ground, and Clarey begins to learn more about her abilities and her family history. Luke is there as a stand-in father, and Simon is usually around to support Clarey. Valentine, who is up to no good at all, takes another mortal instrument, and then begins to kill different Downworlders in order to change the goodness/evilness of said Mortal Instrument. Jace is fighting his demons, and makes a stand against his \"father\" early on in this book. Magnus is in the picture, too, guarding Jace, and healing the Shadowhunters when needed. Magnus' flair is a very enjoyable part of this book: \"Never doubt my weaseling abilities, Shadowhunter, for they are epic and memorable in their scope.\" \"Sure. And Madonna wants me as a back up dancer on her next world tour.\" Simon begins this book still lusting after Clarey, although he is the one that tells her he wants to call the romantic portion of their relationship quits. He is around for lots of sarcastic observations, such as: \"That you freed a criminal by trading away your brother to a warlock who looks like a gay Sonic the Hedgehog and dresses like the Child Catcher from Chitty Chitty Bang Bang ?\" Simon inquired. But Simon has a bigger story in this book. Something BIG happens to Simon that changes the rest of his life. I don't know if it's good or bad, but I look forward to seeing Simon change and grow within this new context. The tension between Jace and Clarey increases throughout this book. And the thing about these two is that it's not just about the physical realtionship, although that it there, too. It's the idea that Jace would do anything for Clarey, and Clarey would do the same for Jace. These two just can't catch a break. They certainly don't have brotherly/sisterly feelings for one another. The scene at the Seelie court was heartbreaking, disturbing and slightly exciting. \"His arms slid around her, his hands knotting in her hair, and the kiss stopped being gentle and became fierce, all in a single moment like tinder flaring into a blaze.\" ********************************* \"You're my sister.\" \"It doesn't matter how many times you say it. It'll still be true.\" \"And it doesn't matter what you won't let me say, that'll still be true, too.\" Valentine is up to his old tricks again. Not only does he have possession of two Mortal Instruments, but he's controlling demons and wreaking havoc in Manhattan. As Valentine kidnaps some Downworlders, Jace, Clarey and company must move quickly to stop him . Valentine's face was impassive, almost motionless. His lips barely moved as he said, \"And why is that?\" \"Because,\" Simon said, \"you're obviously psychotic.\" That he is. Valentine seems sociopathic in his single-mindedness, his egoism and his lack of caring for anyone or anything else. There is a big, often gory fight scene at then end, a special moment when Simon learns yet something else about himself, and a sad moment at the end of this book in a conversation between Jace and Clarey. Okay - so we are still left with the idea that Jace and Clarey are siblings. Wrong. I don't believe it. There are at least three times in this book where three different characters remark that Clarey and Jace look NOTHING alike, and a very specific quote where someone says that Clarey looks very much like Valentine. There's a scene with the Inspector where she realizes something about Jace connected to his shoulder scar, but can't quite get the words out of her mouth. There are too many clues piling up to make me believe that these two are related. The only question in my mind remains - How is Cassandra Clare going to pull this off? Onto City of Glass. ...more Since the previous book of this series ended with a cliffhanger, I couldn't help myself: had to start reading this one immediately after finishing City of Bones . I would like to mention that, when I found out about this series, I was going under a strict weight reduction policy; I would eat very little everyday, compared to what I was used to, and would run the treadmill for more than 40 minutes every day, no matter my stated of mind, or if I had other things to do or if it was the coldest day o Since the previous book of this series ended with a cliffhanger, I couldn't help myself: had to start reading this one immediately after finishing City of Bones . I would like to mention that, when I found out about this series, I was going under a strict weight reduction policy; I would eat very little everyday, compared to what I was used to, and would run the treadmill for more than 40 minutes every day, no matter my stated of mind, or if I had other things to do or if it was the coldest day of winter. Somehow I managed to get my Kindle settled on the treadmill, 'cus I just couldn't stop reading. There is so much tension going on in this book that, sometimes, I felt all the characters would start going to group therapy together. The events on this book happen in a much faster pace than the previous one, since Clary is now much more enlightened about the world where she truly belongs, so we are not smashed with so much background explanations. Despite the drama lying on the seemingly impossible love relationship between Clary and Jace, the whole story is built around the unavoidable conflict between Valentine's forces and the Nephilim. I found it really entertaining accompanying Simon trying to come to terms with being a newborn vampire, as he is one of my favorite characters. It was also cool to be showed more of the Nephilim world, from new cities to the intricacies of their political system. Again, Clare shows her cleverness when trying to please teenager readers by showing them said political system being questioned and ultimately subdued by teenagers. One of the features of this book that I really liked is that Clare kept true to her style, her story and ideas. From personal experience, I learned that some promising series can go down really fast after the first book, especially if it gets enormously famous and the author lets money get to their head. Fortunately, it did not happen with this series. There are the same exhilarating action scenes and the same particularities of each of the characters that make them individually especial. More importantly, there are still those hilarious scenes that make me laugh so hard: \"'I've got a stele we can use. Who wants to do me?' A regrettable choice of words,' muttered Magnus.\" . It was also really interesting to get to know more about Luke and his pack; knowing more about his background made me relate to him much more than in the first book. Isabelle and Alec also grew on me, since now that their bonds of friendship with Simon and Clary is stronger; as a result, Clare managed to depict them with much more realism, so they are much more believable now. Sometimes Clare is a bit heavy-handed on the drama, but not so much as to turn the experience of reading unbearable. One little thing that bugged me about the plot, though, is that Valentine , who is supposed to be the ultimate evil, seen as being a threat to the whole Clave, doesn't seem capable of doing so. It might be Clare's strategy to depict him with some errors of judgement and weak strategical thinking, which might work if her purpose is to make him a more believable character, but come on! I was expecting a lot more \"holy shit! I didn't see that coming\" moves from that guy. Anyway, there are a lot of action, tons of revelations and unexpected twists, specially regarding Jace's heritage and Clary's abilities with runes. I definitely liked this one more than City of Bones , since Clare got to develop the characters and plot due to not having to waste half a book explaining Underworld folklore to Clary us. Interesting/fun quotes that I didn't include in the review: As long as there was coffee in the world, how bad could things be? Growing up happens when you start having things you look back on and wish you could change. Fate is never fair. You are caught in a current much stronger than you are; struggle against it and you'll drown not just yourself but those who try to save you. Swim with it. and you'll survive Pain is only what you allow it to be. ...more City of Ashes, on the whole, is a much more cohesive piece that City of Bones. That said, I had two major problems with the text. The first major problem I had was with the role of adult characters in the book. There was a constant dichotomy of 'with the main characters equals good' and 'against the main characters equal bad/evil' and life is never that simple. Luke, who always supports Clary, Simon, and Jace is firmly in the 'good' category. Maryse is slightly different. In the beginning of the City of Ashes, on the whole, is a much more cohesive piece that City of Bones. That said, I had two major problems with the text. The first major problem I had was with the role of adult characters in the book. There was a constant dichotomy of 'with the main characters equals good' and 'against the main characters equal bad/evil' and life is never that simple. Luke, who always supports Clary, Simon, and Jace is firmly in the 'good' category. Maryse is slightly different. In the beginning of the book she is comes off as cold, unloving, and arbitrary--all because she refuses to believe what Jace tells her. Later she is meek and powerless under the Inquisitor. Only after she believes in Jace does Maryse regain her power and take charge of the situation. Newsflash: You can not believe in Jace, and even go against what he is doing, and still be a good person. This is particularly common selling technique of children's TV, from the past ten years. By setting up the dichotomy of adults verses children, TV programs appeal to children's fantasies and can better sell their products. Frankly, I didn't expect to see it in published teen novel. Some conflict with adults is normal. What is not normal is to assign good/bad alignment along with which side the adult takes. The second thing that really bothered me was the character's problem solving abilities. Frankly, to me it sounded like a B-rated scifi show. In B-rated movies someone yells out \"Oh No! The radiant shielding is gone! If we don't fix it, then we'll all be dead by radiation poisoning in 45 minutes!\" In which the specially designated scientist replies \"I think if we attach this gobbly-gook to the jibbly power supply and boost it by magic it will solve our problems.\" Then they do it, and it works at the last minute, after several possible mishaps. The scientist is never wrong, and there's never time to come up with a backup plan. The same thing happened in this book. Ok, Valentine has stolen a sword and killed a few people. That obviously means he'll do this very complicated ceremony that Magnus Bane thinks of right away. Please. For a character that is supposed to be sneaky Valentine certainly does what everybody expects of him. I just kept waiting for the main characters completely random assumption about Valentine's plan to be wrong (which of course it wasn't). And that bothered me. Now, the positives. Cassandra Clare's writing has improved quite a bit between the first and second book, as well as her characterization skills. They're still not great, but they're better. And frankly, there is something very captivating about this book. My inner-fangirl was squealing the entire time, while my inner-book critic was scoffing. Clare has the ability to make you care about her characters, which is amazing considering the massive handicaps they have as far as characterization goes. Her world is evocative, and more than anything, I want to believe in it. Clare has some obvious talent, but it's still rather raw and underdeveloped. I will be very interested to see where she is in five years, as she shows some serious promise. I will be reading City of Glass, and I will read her Infernal Devices trilogy, hoping for the same level of improvement. But until she becomes better, I will just have to consider these a guilty pleasure. ...more 1st Read: 2013 1st Reread: May 23, 2014 2nd Reread: July 17-19, 2015[With Lauren] 3rd reread: February 12-?, 2017 Its sad that I have read these books as many times as I have, and have neglected to write reviews until now. I love these books! I could probably read them over and over again and never tire of the story - the world, that this author has created. There is more of a 'feels' factor in this book. More emotions that book one set up. More drama. I LOVE IT . This isn't my favorite book of the se 1st Read: 2013 1st Reread: May 23, 2014 2nd Reread: July 17-19, 2015[With Lauren] 3rd reread: February 12-?, 2017 Its sad that I have read these books as many times as I have, and have neglected to write reviews until now. I love these books! I could probably read them over and over again and never tire of the story - the world, that this author has created. There is more of a 'feels' factor in this book. More emotions that book one set up. More drama. I LOVE IT . This isn't my favorite book of the series, its probably one of my least, actually, but I still love it [and the entire series] immensely and therefore I will not give anything but 5 Stars to any book in this series. I've recently been rereading book quotes I've written down from favorite books, and some of the ones I've seen for City of Glass make me SO INCREDIBLY HAPPY that its next in line!!!! come find me: www.facebook.com/ReadsAsh IG: ash.reads Twitter: @ReadsAsh ...more *sigh* I don't know what it is. Maybe it's the fact that my taste in YA novels are changing. Maybe it's because since reading the first MI book in 2009, I have read so many better book series. Whatever the reason, CC just does not impress me. The writing is bad and she has poor use of similes. I didn't feel the love Jace felt for Clary. If anything, I felt downright embarrassed that Jace was pinning over his \"sister\" and pretty much not caring. All the while, Simon is in the corner about to be s *sigh* I don't know what it is. Maybe it's the fact that my taste in YA novels are changing. Maybe it's because since reading the first MI book in 2009, I have read so many better book series. Whatever the reason, CC just does not impress me. The writing is bad and she has poor use of similes. I didn't feel the love Jace felt for Clary. If anything, I felt downright embarrassed that Jace was pinning over his \"sister\" and pretty much not caring. All the while, Simon is in the corner about to be sick. It was awkward. More reviews and more at Cuddlebuggery Book Blog . ...more I am sorry. I have better things to do than read this. Like clean my bathroom with a toothbrush, get a root canal, or slowly kill myself by mixing Drano in my soup. Peace outs. \"I don't hate you, Jace.\" \"I don't hate you, either.\" She looked up at him, relieved. \"I'm glad to hear that\u2014\" \"I wish I could hate you,\" he said. His voice was light, his mouth curved in an unconcerned half smile, his eyes sick with misery. \"I want to hate you. I try to hate you. It would be so much easier if I did hate you. Mortal Instruments: City of Ashes is the exciting sequel of City of Bones, written by Cassandra Clare. This book offers half of what the first book provided: action, en engagin \"I don't hate you, Jace.\" \"I don't hate you, either.\" She looked up at him, relieved. \"I'm glad to hear that\u2014\" \"I wish I could hate you,\" he said. His voice was light, his mouth curved in an unconcerned half smile, his eyes sick with misery. \"I want to hate you. I try to hate you. It would be so much easier if I did hate you. Mortal Instruments: City of Ashes is the exciting sequel of City of Bones, written by Cassandra Clare. This book offers half of what the first book provided: action, en engaging plot and a heart-wrenching romance. City of Ashes, in my opinion, worked as a filler between the first book and City of Glass. It lacked the wonderful magic, and had hints of the infamous sequel syndrome. This story was driving by travel, arguing and filler chapters, and of course, forbidden romance. Jocelyn has not woken up yet, so Clary is now living at Luke's house. Clary's emotions are tangled when Simon kisses her and starts calling her his girlfriend. Jace has been exiled from the Institute under suspicions of being a spy for Valentine. He heads to a bar, Hunters Moon, having nowhere to live now, only to discover that a werechild was slain nearby and that the pack wants his help. Jace refuses to help and is attacked by the pack, only to be saved by Luke. After some prompting by Luke, Jace goes to the Institute to confront Alec and Isabelle's mother who had kicked him out, who reveals that the Inquisitor was coming and she was only trying to spare him. Clary returns to the Institute and receives a text message from Isabelle saying that Jace has angered the Inquisitor and has been imprisoned in the Silent City. While sitting in his cell, Jace hears something attacking the Silent Brothers and discovers that Valentine has killed them to get the second Mortal Instrument - the Mortal Sword. Clary, Isabelle, and Alec respond to a distress call from the Silent City, only to discover the slaying of the Silent Brothers. Clary frees Jace using an amplified version of the opening rune, that just crossed her mind, only for the Inquisitor to appear and accuse Jace of going along with Valentine, since Jace was supposed to go on trial by the sword and now it is gone. Magnus Bane offers to keep Jace as a prisoner in his apartment, where he and the others try to figure out Valentine's potential plans. Jace later receives an offer from the Queen of the Seelie Court to visit her court. Jace goes with Simon, Isabelle and Clary. The group convinces the Queen to help them defeat Valentine, while the Queen says she is still not sure and also mentions how their court knows deep secrets, like how Jace and Clary are their father's wonderful experiments come to life. The group is confused and decides to leave. However, Clary is tricked into consuming faery food, and is only allowed to leave by kissing \"whom she most desires\". At first Simon kisses her unexpectedly, thinking the wanted kiss might be his. However, the kiss does not free Clary and Isabelle suggests that the kiss might be from Jace. The three are reluctant at first, what with Clary being Jace's sister, but after Izzy insists that she too would kiss Alec if only to free him, Jace kisses Clary. The kiss suddenly becomes intense and passionate, and afterwards Clary is free, proving that Jace's kiss is the one she most desires. This hurt Simon, so he storms off after they return to their realm. Jace and Clary confess their love to each other and Clary immediately regrets it. Jace suggests keeping a secret relationship, to which Clary replies that it would eventually be discovered and that she is unwilling to lie to their friends and family. Later, Raphael shows up at the Institute with Simon who is on the verge of death. The vampire explains that Simon's small initial intake of vampire blood earlier at the Hotel Dumont made Simon believe he was turning into a vampire, and he went to the Hotel Dumont to see Raphael. He then was devoured by vampires, mixing his blood with theirs. Thus, as the only way left to save him, Simon is buried and transforms into a vampire, which causes a distraught Clary to ignore Jace as a result of her concern over Simon and his new undead status. While discussing how to potentially tell Simon's mother about his vampire transformation with Clary, Maia comes into the house with wounds too severe for Luke to treat. Magnus heals Maia while Luke decides to check outside to see if the demons are still there. Luke is attacked and gets badly injured. Jace, Simon, and Clary battle the demons outside of the house. The demons flee after seeing Clary's rune on her forearm which she got during a dream of her mother blessing her Shadowhunter path. They return to the house to rest with the others and end up talking about the remarkably powerful rune Clary used to free Jace earlier. Clary reveals that it was something she just thought of, and everyone opposes her, saying that nobody can simply make up a rune as it is created by angels. Clary is dared to make a new rune, and she ends up making a fearless rune, as suggested by Jace. They try it on Alec, whose parents and sister arrive suddenly. Alec suddenly approaches his parents, saying he's seeing someone who is a Downworlder. Magnus magically silences him before he says who he is dating and he's startled, as if he just woke up. Alec claims not to remember anything, and suddenly gets nervous and defensive when asked who he is dating, leading them to believe that the rune actually worked. Everyone decides to sleep, but Jace secretly borrows Raphael's motorcycle and meets Valentine at a ship. Valentine offers protection to his loved ones if Jace joins him and comes back to Idris. Jace is silent, but the next morning the Inquisitor comes to claim that Jace was with Valentine and threatens to kill Jace if Valentine does not return the Mortal Instruments. At Jace's denial, the Inquisitor once again imprisons Jace, planning to make a trade with Valentine - Jace's life for the Mortal Instruments. Jace tries to tell her that it will not work, which the Inquisitor refuses to believe as she devises a plan of revenge on Valentine because he killed her son. While she is traveling to see Simon, Maia is attacked by the Demon of Fear, Agramon, who comes to her in the form of her dead brother, after which Valentine kidnaps her. Clary and the others discover Maia's kidnapping and rescue her with the help once again of Magnus, but not before Valentine kills the newborn Simon. Jace manages to restore life to Simon by feeding him his blood, after which the Inquisitor appears. After seeing Jace's star-shaped scar on his shoulder, she begins to suggest something about who his parents are, then suddenly kills a demon that was attacking him. She dies during the process, leaving Jace confused at her sudden change of heart. Meanwhile, one of Valentine's demon\u2019s kidnaps Clary and brings her to his boat where Valentine intimidates her with the Mortal Sword. Jace and Simon find and rescue her and Valentine admits that Jace only chose to fight on the Shadowhunter side because he loves Clary more than as a sister. He knew of this when Jace saw Agramon in the form of Clary dying the first time it met him, and Jace reveals he has killed Agramon the second time he met it in the form of Valentine. Jace throws Clary's stele to her and Clary quickly makes an opening rune on the ship's metal, which causes all of the ship's pieces to open up, making it explode. Clary falls in the river and is saved by nixies the Seelie Queen sent to help. The group escapes by truck, where Simon discovers that Jace's blood has made him a \"Daylighter\", a vampire that can tolerate the sun's heat. After a talk with Luke about love and his regrets of not telling Clary's mother how he felt about her, Clary finally decides to tell Jace of her love for him and her sudden change of mind to start a relationship, regardless of its consequences. However, before she can say anything, Jace tells her that he will only act as her brother from then on, breaking her heart. As Clary reels from this, she meets a woman who introduces herself as Madeleine, one of Jocelyn's friends, and says that she knows how to wake up Clary's mother. As always, I had problems with this book: how could Clary suddenly be able to invent runes? She is suddenly becoming a special snowflake, which she didn\u2019t feel like in City of Bones. Clary is a new Shadowhunter, with almost no experience, and she is able to master the arts of inventing runes\u2026 this seems highly unlogical to me, but perhaps, it is because she is Valentine\u2019s daughter. However, that is not a good enough explanation for me. City of Ashes seemed like a filler for me. The pace in the book was a week, so a lot of happening over the court of a week. Simon became a vampire, which was an interesting twist to the story. Mrs Clare obviously used this to include him into the supernatural world, but it worked. Vampire Simon is a new and improved Simon, whom I look forward to analyze the character development of. There was foreshadowing of his vampire turning in the first book, but I didn\u2019t notice it; he bit Raphael when he was a rat, which was his intake of the vampire blood. The beginning of the book wasn\u2019t as engaging as the first one; it didn\u2019t bring me into the story right away, and took a hundred pages before the action took place. Pacing is an important element in a book, but this seemed to lack it. Significant events were occurring over the period of a week, and I believe the purpose of this book is to include the reader in the world even further. Hence, tell the reader about the other part of the Shadowhunter world, which would be the Downworlders, including Warlocks, Seelies, vampires and werewolves. In order to avoid an infodump in City of Bones, Mrs Clare used the second book to tell everything the first book didn\u2019t, and in result, there wasn\u2019t an engaging plot. After realizing they are siblings, Jace and Clary\u2019s relationship turn into a rollercoaster full of moodswings, storming off, awkward conversation and a relationship that is not going anywhere. As states several times in the book, it is obvious they still have feelings for one another, but due to their sibling bond, they cannot have a romantic relationship. In result, the entire book focuses on their \u2018impossible\u2019 relationship. The Seelie Queen manipulated them to kiss, which was completely wrong \u2013if they really are siblings. Personally, I liked the twist of them kissing, as it was one of the best moments/chapters in the entire book. The incestuous feelings between Clary and Jace are the main theme in the book but the subject's handled in a shallow manner as neither character seems interested in the consequences or emotional implications of their feelings and Clare drops anvils as to its resolution, which robs the love triangle between Clary, Jace and Simon of tension. There were hints of a love triangle, but it ended before it officially started. Ultimately, the romance was disturbing and chaotic, and wasn't necessary. There was too much of the brother/sister drama, which should have been turned down for. Both of them love each other, but they kept having the clich\u00e9 speeches that got old in the end. I never felt the chemistry between Jace and Clary. After finding out they are siblings, their relationship went from we-have-kissed-and-love-each-other to we-are-soulmates-and-we-can't-live-without-each-other. To me, it seems as if it skipped a huge step, and jumped right into the soulmate phase, but with the inclusion of forbidden love. \"Look,\" Luke went on, \"In all the years I've known him, there's always been exactly one place Simon wanted to be, and he's always fought like hell to make sure he got there and stayed there.\" \"Where's that?\" \"Wherever you were.\" Clary forces a relationship with Simon, and uses him as a rebound. As much as I love Simon, Clary isn\u2019t the one for him. To me, it feels she keeps using him to distract her feelings for Jace, and force herself into loving him the way he loves her. Mrs Clare\u2019s intention of the relationship was to make the reader understand how unnatural their relationship is, and how they are better off as friends. This happens at the end of the book, when Simon realizes she doesn\u2019t love him in the romantic way. Simon suffers a great deal in this book and it's a shame that Clare does not set out the scene where he's forced into a terrifying transformation. There have been hints of this since the first book, but the main catalyst here happens off page and without any real build-up, which is frustrating as it robs the book of some real drama and shock-value. The dilemma that this transformation causes for Simon is resolved by the end of the book in a way that's too pat and I believe it's a missed opportunity. Jace\u2019s beginning in the book was terrible. I loved him in the first book, but now he seemed obnoxious. I understand he is dealing with trauma and finding out his love is his sister, but he behaves in a complete ignorant manner, which is disgusting and attention-seeking. Alec, Isabelle and Clary had to drop everything to find him when he was in trouble, and that wasn\u2019t enough. I enjoyed his humor in City of Bones, but his character has darkened; it could be the character development, but it didn\u2019t make him seem more mature. In fact, he seemed immature and selfish. \"I don't want to be a man,\" said Jace. \"I want to be an angst-ridden teenager who can't confront his own inner demons and takes it out verbally on other people instead.\" \"Well,\" said Luke, \"you're doing a fantastic job.\" The prose is purple and repetitive at times, and sometimes stunts the action. There are some inner-story logic problems, notably where Jace visits Valentine, finding him easily even though he's managed to evade all of the other Shadowhunters. In my opinion, the best scenes in the book is the dream sequence between Clary and her mother, as well as Valentine's attack on the Silent Brothers. The ending, which was a cliffhanger, was a cheap method to leave the reader panting for more and continue the franchise. Jocelyn hasn\u2019t woken up yet, so why not end it with meeting someone who can help Clary with it? Of course, I will be continuing the series, but I don\u2019t like cliffhangers \u2013especially not when it is manipulating users in some sort of way. Since I\u2019ve seen the TV series, I want to see more of Alec and Magnus. Alec doesn\u2019t get enough scenes or credits, which disappoints me. When he does, it\u2019s never with Magnus and it doesn\u2019t focus on them. Aside from Alec, Luke is also one of my favorite character. Luke\u2019s love for Jocelyn\u2019s daughter, Clary, was beautiful. He works as an amazing and interesting supportive character, who is a part of the gang and involved in the world. I love Luke; not just because of his relationship with Clary, but also his friendships with Clary\u2019s friends. He does everything to protect and help Clary, and I can\u2019t help but respect him for that. \"I've got a stele we can use. Who wants to do me?\" \"A regrettable choice of words,\" muttered Magnus. Mrs Clare did an astonishing job with the mythology and twisting it up in new ways. She took a closer look at vampires and seelies. Focusing on the Downworlders, Mrs Clare does a mighty job of taking rich and varied and well known mythologies, and giving them a brand new spark of life that has not been written into the ground already. The book has a mixture of ancient legends, religious myths and modern story themes, which has been combined. I enjoy that she picks bits of mythology from all over and uses it to create a world full of truths and half-truths and the people who have to deal with it all. She does borrow a few of the more overused mythological creatures in popular culture, but it doesn't affect the structure of the story. Valentine is the main villain of the story and less clich\u00e9d like he was in City of Bones. He doesn\u2019t love Jace or Clary, which I believe is a great addition to the story. Most evil parents love their children in some way, and it\u2019s refreshing to see the clich\u00e9 hasn\u2019t been recycled into The Mortal Instruments. Valentine sparked my interest, and I can\u2019t wait to read the final confrontation between him and Clary. His parts in the book was great, highlighting the part when he kidnapped Simon and Maia. The Inquisitor, which serves as the second villain, was a pathetic attempt to spice the story up. I didn\u2019t like her, and it wasn\u2019t because of her painfully strict personality, but because she didn\u2019t have a plot \u2013she didn\u2019t truly fit into the story. She had a tragic backstory that was revealed in the end, but her moments with Jace dragged the plot out. When she died, it didn\u2019t bring any grief or heartbreak into the story, and I felt completely emotionless. Unfortunately, the Inquisitor feels like a rehash of \u2018old\u2019 Valentine, a single-minded Shadowhunter, who holds Jace responsible for the sins of his father and refuses to listen to any views different to her own. Mrs Clare\u2019s writing was delightful, and I continue to fall in love with it. The writing is detailed, but also includes the right amount of dialogue to keep the story going. There wasn\u2019t the humor the first book had, and attempts for it wasn\u2019t humorous, but sad. I must admit, I did like the 'coming out' part, where Simon was practising coming out as a vampire to his mother; that was hilarious. I didn\u2019t find City of Ashes funny, like I did with the first. Simon was still an epic character, and ensured there was lighthearted moments in the book. Jace and Simon continue to fight for Clary, which gets tiring in the end; they can never get along. Not once. All the time, Jace has to snap at Simon or call him 'mundane' or vampire. There is always something, which gets irritating in the end. I'm not saying I want them to be bestfriends, but is it really necessary to constantly remind the readers of how much they dislike each other? \"We came to see Jace. Is he alright?\" \"I don't know,\" Magnus said. \"Does he normally just lie on the floor like that without moving?\" Lastly, I watched the movie yesterday. Honestly, I didn't find it terrible, and it was average. The effects were great, Lily Collins as Clary was alright, but the kiss... wow, it was clich\u00e9. When it started raining, I was laughing my ass off; it was heavily influenced by The Notebook. My favorite part of the movie was the Institute, as it reminded me off Hogwarts with its own twist. As always, the movie wasn't better than the book, and my interested seemed to decrease the further I went into the movie. Magnus didn't get enough screen time nor did Alec, but I loved Simon in it. Instead of being nerdy, he was more of a hipster, but he was the same person from the book. I have also watched the TV series, and I have mixed opinions about. As of now, I prefer the movie, but Malec in the show is everything, and so is Alec. Overall, I did enjoy City of Ashes, but it didn't amaze me like City of Bones. Everything about this book feels like it has been downgraded from City of Bones, and felt like a filler. The romance was a constant conflict of falling in love with your siblings, hence, the forbidden love, and finding rebound in your best friend. The action lacked, and so did the plot. The intention of this book was to focus heavily on the mythology of the world and tell important events that is going to play a significant part in the future books. Mrs Clare continues to amaze me, and I did like City of Ashes, but it wasn't as wonderful as City of Bones. However, I had a pleasure reading it, and can't wait to continue the series. Fate is never fair. You are caught in a current much stronger than you are; struggle against it and you'll drown not just yourself but those who try to save you. Swim with it. and you'll survive. ...more 4.5 STARS! \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2606 Book 2 really picks up from the first one and if it wasn't for my real life work, I would have enjoyed reading this in one complete sitting, loved it! I was already sucked in from the first chapter as it starts off very eerily with the introduction of Agramon (this demon reminds me of a Boggart in HP but much more scary!). With Valentine making his intentions loud and clear to the Clave and all Downworlders alike, horrendous killings are popping up everywhere and Valentine shows 4.5 STARS! \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2606 Book 2 really picks up from the first one and if it wasn't for my real life work, I would have enjoyed reading this in one complete sitting, loved it! I was already sucked in from the first chapter as it starts off very eerily with the introduction of Agramon (this demon reminds me of a Boggart in HP but much more scary!). With Valentine making his intentions loud and clear to the Clave and all Downworlders alike, horrendous killings are popping up everywhere and Valentine shows no mercy in his pursuit of true power. One of the scenes I truly enjoyed was at the Seelie Court. Felt that it was such an amazing addition to the book. I loved how CC described the faeries and how they were perceived to be - it gave a very eerily feel that somehow got me hooked. \"She looked again - and froze. The faces that had seemed so lovely to her were still lovely, yet behind them lurked something vulpine, almost feral. \"If you dance with them, you'll dance until you die.\" The book still maintains an incredible pace which never leaves you a dull moment and there were times that it sent my heart into a complete turmoil as my emotions went into overdrive with some of these characters! (view spoiler) [I went into a panic attack when Simon became a vampire, ASKASJASLKA!!! (hide spoiler) ] A bunch of new ones got introduced; noteably the Lightwoods, Imogen and Maia. Was glad to see more of Magnus Bane becoming a recurring cast in the series (gotta love warlocks with a lot of wit!). I think Simon was just amazing in this one; I got into a total frenzy with a couple of tear-shedding moments that involved him, GAH MY FEELS! \u2665 Clary & Jace's relationship is still at a push-pull stance as they battled their feelings after that motha of revelations. SEXUAL TENSION OVERLOAD. Tons of action and wonderful one-liners , this was a great one to build up a stronger platform for the series! The end battle scene was thrilling and you just can't anticpate who will or will not survive! I'm already in the midst of the 3rd book right now & am already loving it more with each instalment! :D[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Let's be honest. It doesn't matter HOW many times I read this book, even knowing how things will work out in City of Glass, the epilogue still makes me want to throw things against the wall EVERY TIME I read it! LOVE LOVE LOVE! Um...SQUEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE! I feel a new obsession coming on. I can't get these books and characters out of my HEAD! I loved it so very very much, I couldn't stop reading. And now that I'm done reading, I'm going to listen to the audiobooks. Seriously , I'm in love Let's be honest. It doesn't matter HOW many times I read this book, even knowing how things will work out in City of Glass, the epilogue still makes me want to throw things against the wall EVERY TIME I read it! LOVE LOVE LOVE! Um...SQUEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE! I feel a new obsession coming on. I can't get these books and characters out of my HEAD! I loved it so very very much, I couldn't stop reading. And now that I'm done reading, I'm going to listen to the audiobooks. Seriously , I'm in love. And I'm a little disturbed by my shipping in this particular series, but not enough to be able to distance myself from it! WHEE! Now...off to join a new fandom. ;) First read in October 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014...over and over and over ;) ...more CITY OF ASHES is the much anticipated sequel to last year\u2019s City of Bones. Never have I been more excited to get a book in the mail. I have to admit, I was looking forward to CITY OF ASHES even more than when I was waiting for Harry Potter 7. Re-entering the world of the Shadowhunters was thrilling. Clary and Jace are dealing with their father\u2019s theft of the Angel\u2019s Cup and are continuing to struggle with the fact that they are brother and sister. In CITY OF ASHES we meet Alec and Izzy\u2019s parents w CITY OF ASHES is the much anticipated sequel to last year\u2019s City of Bones. Never have I been more excited to get a book in the mail. I have to admit, I was looking forward to CITY OF ASHES even more than when I was waiting for Harry Potter 7. Re-entering the world of the Shadowhunters was thrilling. Clary and Jace are dealing with their father\u2019s theft of the Angel\u2019s Cup and are continuing to struggle with the fact that they are brother and sister. In CITY OF ASHES we meet Alec and Izzy\u2019s parents with Mrs. Lightwood being the most prominent. She is doesn\u2019t trust Jace since Valentine has revealed himself. She is afraid that Jace is a spy for Valentine and tells him to move out of the Institute. She also calls The Inquisitor to determine Jace\u2019s punishment for his \u201calleged\u201d role in theft of the Angel\u2019s Cup. Neither The Inquisitor nor Mrs. Lightwood believe Jace about the new plan Valentine has come up with to steal another of the Mortal Instruments - the Soul-Sword. Valentine will do whatever it takes to get it. His plan, once he has the sword, is to transform it from a sword that will kill demons to a sword that will kill members of the Clave. The transformation requires the blood of Downworlder children which leads to danger for Simon, Clary\u2019s best friend, and Maia, a member of Luke\u2019s pack. It falls to Jace and Clary, with the help of Luke and Magnus to engage Valentine in battle to prevent him from accomplishing his goal. After reading CITY OF ASHES we know a little more about Alec, get to know Magnus better, discover some special abilities Clary and Jace possess, and get a hint that there might be more to Jace\u2019s lineage than we already thought. Cassandra Clare has the ability to create the kind of emotional tention that I haven\u2019t found since Stephenie Meyer\u2019s Twilight. You\u2019ll be sorry when you get to the last page and be tempted to turn back to page one and start the adventure all over again. ...more", "Title": "City of Ashes"},
