{"Comments": "My sister saw <+++>The Glass Castle</+++> on my coffee table and said, \u201cOh, I read that.<---F> It\u2019s kind of </---F>. . .\u201d then she paused and we both were awkwardly silent for a minute. \u201cWell,<---M> I was going to say</---M>, it\u2019s kind of like us, a little bit, but not \u2013\u201c \u201cYeah,\u201d I said. \u201cI wasn\u2019t going to say it \u2013 because not all of it \u2013 \u201c \u201cYeah, not all of it.\u201d We didn\u2019t talk about it again. When I first saw this book, I think I died a little inside because of the cover. I didn\u2019t hate The Divine Secrets of the Ya Ya Sisterhood like My sister saw <+++>The Glass Castle</+++> on my coffee table and said, \u201cOh, I read that. It\u2019s kind of . . .\u201d then she paused and we both were awkwardly silent for a minute. \u201cWell, I was going to say, it\u2019s kind of like us, a little bit, but not \u2013\u201c \u201cYeah,\u201d I said. \u201cI wasn\u2019t going to say it \u2013 because not all of it \u2013 \u201c \u201cYeah, not all of it.\u201d We didn\u2019t talk about it again. When I first saw this book, I think I died a little inside because of the cover. I didn\u2019t hate The Divine Secrets of the Ya Ya Sisterhood like I hated The Mermaid Chair or (*shudder*) Bastard out of Carolina , but when there\u2019s a little girl on the cover of a book, looking all innocent, it\u2019s like a movie with the word \u201cEducation\u201d in the title. You just know you\u2019re in for a published trip to the psychiatrist\u2019s couch. Kiddy-sex and soul-searching. I\u2019m not saying people shouldn\u2019t tell their stories (I mean, look at me, I\u2019m all up in your website telling my stories), but I do think people should get a handle on what their story is before they try to tell it. Or at least before they make me read it. Sorry, that\u2019s kind of asshole-ish of me to say, but I just think a lot of books with innocent little girls on the cover are really arrogant. They have this sense that since some man did something horrifying, everything that women do, including dancing around a fire with girlfriends or taking exotic lovers, is just part of the loving circle of nature\u2019s healing. I am such a fan of women, and so I take it personally when we look like morons. This book has absolutely nothing in common with its cover. I haven\u2019t written a review of it before because I think it is a perfect book, and how do you review a perfect book? I\u2019m like Wayne and Garth when they meet Alice Cooper. This book is my Alice Cooper. I\u2019m sure it wouldn\u2019t be everyone\u2019s Alice Cooper, but to me this is exactly what a book should be. Everything about the book is simple, concise, and action-packed. It makes me laugh and it makes me cry. The people are incredible, but deep and smart and human. In some ways, I think this book is the Great American Story, but it\u2019s the story none of us talk about and all of us live. In other ways, the book is so specific and personal to the Walls family that I never would have imagined the stories if I had not been told them. Virginia Woolf and Rainer Maria Rilke , two of the wisest people I have read, both ask when and how women will be able to tell stories without being self-conscious that they are women. How can we write, or even live, not as reactions to men, but as separate masters of our own experiences? I don\u2019t know where the genders are on the space/time continuum of respecting each other, and I think there are probably gender-related specifics to any story (maybe that\u2019s just natural and not even bad), but there is something about this book that is just human and strong. It is compassionate and unflinching. Oh, I hate adjectives. Just, read the first chapter of this book, and if you don\u2019t think it\u2019s compelling, don\u2019t keep reading because it\u2019s probably not for you. My family was nomadic, like <---A>Jeannette Walls</---A>\u2019s family, but, like I say, all of her stories, and my stories, are unique. When I last lived with my parents, it struck me that we never really understand other people\u2019s relationships with each other. I grew up, probably as many of us did, thinking that my parents never really got along and that my mom was a victim of my dad\u2019s anger and wild scheming. But, later, I realized they probably both got something that I never understood out of their relationship. I think a lot of this book is about how we know the people we are close to and, also, never really do \u2013 how it is useless to hold other people to our own standards of what love or responsibility looks like. But, still, it is about holding each other responsible. Or, maybe the book is just about her family with no real moral lesson at all. Walls is so loyal to her stories in an almost scientific way. None of the adult outrage that contaminates so many stories of children creeps into Walls\u2019s. She tells you what happened, and maybe how she felt about it at the time, but she doesn\u2019t impose emotion on the reader. Here\u2019s just a small part (well, actually, half . . . I couldn\u2019t resist) of the first chapter to give you a little taste: Mom was sitting at a booth, studying the menu, when I arrived. She\u2019d made an effort to fix herself up. She wore a bulky gray sweater with only a few light stains, and black leather men\u2019s shoes. She\u2019d washed her face, but her neck and temples were still dark with grime. She waved enthusiastically when she saw me. \u201cIt\u2019s my baby girl!\u201d she called out. I kissed her cheek. Mom had dumped all the plastic packets of soy sauce and duck sauce and hot-and-spicy mustard from the table into her purse. Now she emptied a wooden bowl of dried noodles into it as well. \u201cA little snack for later on,\u201d she explained. We ordered. Mom chose the Seafood Delight. \u201cYou know how I love my seafood,\u201d she said. She started talking about Picasso. She\u2019d seen a retrospective of his work and decided he was hugely overrated. All the cubist stuff was gimmicky, as far as she was concerned. He hadn\u2019t really done anything worthwhile after his Rose Period. \u201cI\u2019m worried about you,\u201d I said. \u201cTell me what I can do to help.\u201d Her smile faded. \u201cWhat makes you think I need your help?\u201d \u201cI\u2019m not rich,\u201d I said. \u201cBut I have some money. Tell me what it is you need.\u201d She thought for a moment. \u201cI could use an electrolysis treatment.\u201d \u201cBe serious.\u201d \u201cI am serious. If a woman looks good, she feels good.\u201d \u201cCome on, Mom.\u201d I felt my shoulders tightening up, the way they invariably did during these conversations. \u201cI\u2019m talking about something that could help you change your life, make it better.\u201d \u201cYou want to help me change my life?\u201d Mom asked. \u201cI\u2019m fine. You\u2019re the one who needs help. Your values are all confused.\u201d \u201cMom, I saw you picking through trash in the East Village a few days ago.\u201d \u201cWell, people in this country are too wasteful. It\u2019s my way of recycling.\u201d She took a bite of her Seafood Delight. \u201cWhy didn\u2019t you say hello?\u201d \u201cI was too ashamed, Mom. I hid.\u201d Mom pointed her chopsticks at me. \u201cYou see?\u201d she said. \u201cRight there. That\u2019s exactly what I\u2019m saying. You\u2019re way too easily embarrassed. Your father and I are who we are. Accept it.\u201d \u201cAnd what am I supposed to tell people about my parents?\u201d \u201cJust tell the truth,\u201d Mom said. \u201cThat\u2019s simple enough.\u201d It\u2019s been a while since I read this book, so a lot of the stories aren\u2019t fresh in my mind, but some are so vivid to me that I think of them whenever I see a trash can or think of the desert. In high school, I thought that American history was the most boring topic imaginable. Then, in college, I took a class called the History of Women in the U.S., and I realized that I think the history of industry and conquest is mind-numbing, but the history of actual people is riveting. The Glass Castle is a real, honest history (or as honest as histories can be) of people in America. It is so close to me and so foreign in just the way this country is. It is also, in a way, a tribute to family oral histories. My dad has a . . . loose . . . relationship with the truth, as I\u2019ve probably mentioned on this site before. In the past couple of years, every time I see one of my siblings, we sit around and tell stories from my dad or about my dad, trying to weed out what actually happened, what got a nice polish in the story factory, and what is an outright lie. I get that same feeling from this book \u2013 of siblings sitting around and saying, \u201cDo you remember . . .\u201d and \u201cYou weren\u2019t there this one time . . .\u201d or \u201cNo, that\u2019s just what Dad said happened, what actually happened was . . .\u201d I\u2019m sure someday, my siblings and I will put together a history of our own, since every one of us seems to have inherited the storytelling gene. Whatever I write will be in some way inspired by this book. ...more Now I get why people like this memoir so much. Though it is a memoir and a true story, both the writing style and the way Walls reminisces about her childhood make it seem like more of a fairy tale . My favourite non-fiction books are those that don't lose the compelling flow of a good fiction book - that still pull you into another world and life, dragging you along for the ride. This is one of those. I especially liked reading about Walls' complex and conflicting thoughts about her parents and ch Now I get why people like this memoir so much. Though it is a memoir and a true story, both the writing style and the way Walls reminisces about her childhood make it seem like more of a fairy tale . My favourite non-fiction books are those that don't lose the compelling flow of a good fiction book - that still pull you into another world and life, dragging you along for the ride. This is one of those. I especially liked reading about Walls' complex and conflicting thoughts about her parents and childhood. When she's writing about her youth, she writes with the rose-tinted glasses of a young girl who loves her family; as she grows, she begins to see the shadows of reality creeping in - her father's alcoholism, her mother's selfish behaviour, the lack of food in the cupboards as a parental failure and not a normality. And, through it all, she still loves her parents. She remembers her father as an intelligent man full of fantastical stories, and her mother as a spirited artist. It's interesting, though, how differently I felt toward them. Normally, a convincing story has me feeling the same way as the narrator, but even though I could understand Walls's love for her parents, I despised them for being selfish and neglectful. I hated them for allowing a 3 year old to use the stove (and cause herself serious burns). I felt extreme anger, not love and understanding, towards them. But that's not a criticism. The Glass Castle is a beautifully-written, emotional read. A true bildungsroman, full of dark and happy times. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Store ...more I guess I have a somewhat different frame of reference than several of the reviewers here. I can relate to many of the lessons she learned, and as such, I never had an issue believing her. These things can and do happen. The system fails children, and addicts (whether they're addicted to alcohol or excitement) will seek their fix above all else. As long as the addiction is in the picture, the person just doesn't exist. Children in alcoholic families eventually become aware of this, and the soone I guess I have a somewhat different frame of reference than several of the reviewers here. I can relate to many of the lessons she learned, and as such, I never had an issue believing her. These things can and do happen. The system fails children, and addicts (whether they're addicted to alcohol or excitement) will seek their fix above all else. As long as the addiction is in the picture, the person just doesn't exist. Children in alcoholic families eventually become aware of this, and the sooner they \"get it\" the better for them. In the book, this is nowhere more clearly evidenced than in the case of Walls' youngest sister, who spent the least amount of time in the presence of her parents dysfunction, and yet was finally the most crippled of all the children. Of course, I admit, I have a firmly-seated belief that the strongest and most creative of personalities are forged in fire; Maureen just didn't get burned enough to see the necessity of making a different life for herself. That, and she was separated from her other siblings by so many years that they took care of her more than they tried to include her in their effort to survive. I loved this book. Walls' short (but revealing) scenes were detail and character-driven, and there were several times I caught myself chuckling at some absolute absurdity or marveling at an unexpected bit of wisdom from someone who should have been a totally unreliable source. And I guess that's one of the main things I came away with after reading this book. Wisdom can come from anyone...whether we like them or not. And the trick to surviving is to take those things that make us better and stronger with us, and to leave the rest behind. ...more 4.5/5 This was really good! Difficult to read at times, but a marvellous book. \"The Glass Castle\" is a memoir written by gossip columnist Jeanette Walls, which details her unconventional childhood growing up with an alcoholic father and a mother who seems to be mentally ill. Walls begins the book by explaining what has prompted her to write about her family: after she has \"made it\" and become a successful writer living in New York, she comes across her mother picking trash out of a dumpster and, in shame, slinks down in her taxi seat and pretends not to see or know her. La \"The Glass Castle\" is a memoir written by gossip columnist Jeanette Walls, which details her unconventional childhood growing up with an alcoholic father and a mother who seems to be mentally ill. Walls begins the book by explaining what has prompted her to write about her family: after she has \"made it\" and become a successful writer living in New York, she comes across her mother picking trash out of a dumpster and, in shame, slinks down in her taxi seat and pretends not to see or know her. Later, Walls confronts her mother, asking what she is supposed to tell people about her parents, and her mother replies, \"Just tell the truth. That\u2019s simple enough.\" Of course, \"The Glass Castle\" is anything but simple, as Walls attempts to come to terms with her upbringing. The first third of the memoir deals with her young childhood on the west coast, as her parents live as nomads, moving frequently between desert towns, always seeking the next adventure. Walls' mother is the key figure we meet here: an artist and a writer, she seems to live in her own world and doesn't express much concern in the practical realities of raising her children. In a key passage, Walls' mother takes the kids with her to give them art lessons, as she paints and studies the Joshua tree. Walls tells her mother of her plan to dig up the tree, replant it, and protect it so it can go straight. Walls' mother admonishes her, \"You'd be destroying what makes it special. It's the Joshua tree's struggle that gives its beauty.\" This appears to be Walls' mother's philosophy of life \u2013 looking for the next struggle \u2013 as the family willingly gives up its nice residence in Phoenix that Walls' mother had inherited from her family to move to the father's home town \u2013 a depressed coal town in West Virginia. The family's time in West Virginia makes up the next third of the story and depicts a depressed life in a depressed town. It is in West Virginia where the family seems to drift apart, particularly Walls' father, who up to this point, had been worshipped and revered by his daughter. Like Walls' mom, her dad has a lot of imagination; while he takes odd jobs that never last long, his real dream is to strike it rich with one of his inventions. He promises, once he has found his gold, that he is going to build a \"glass castle\" \u2013 his most special project \u2013 a great big house for the family to live in. Once in West Virginia, Walls and her brother figure they will make the best of the situation, and they spend a month digging a hole in the ground to serve as the foundation for the glass castle. But because the family can't pay for trash collection, their father instructs them instead to use the hole for the family's garbage. Although she has always been her father's defender, Walls grows disillusioned with her father, eventually telling him he will never build the glass castle. Determined not to end up like her parents, Walls moves to New York, where the last third of the book transpires. It is here that Walls \"makes it,\" graduating from college, gaining employment as a writer, marrying a rich husband, and settling into a Park Avenue apartment. Interestingly, while Walls has rejected her parents' lifestyle, it is now their turn to reject hers. Her father refuses to visit the Park Avenue apartment, while her mother, after visiting the apartment, asks Walls, \"Where are the values I raised you with?\" At this point, it is a mystery what values Walls actually possesses. By crafting the memoir around stories of her childhood, we as readers are often troubled, not just because of the content of the stories but because the stories don't provide much in the way of reflection or introspection. It is, in fact, unclear what Walls actually does value \u2013 will she continue to identify success with the material trappings of her \"normal\" life in New York, or will she ultimately reject the conventional life, as her parents did? Without more reflection from Walls, particularly in this concluding section of the book, readers are left to their own interpretation of \"the truth\" about her parents \u2013 are they just a drunk father and a lazy mother, or is there something more to it? The \"Glass Castle\" is an addicting page-turner that should captivate any reader. However, without this reflection and introspection from Walls about her childhood, the book misses an opportunity to make a more lasting impact on readers and ultimately fails to reach the level of a work like \"Angela\u2019s Ashes.\" In the end, it is up to readers to make up their own minds about \"the truth\" of Walls' parents and her upbringing and what it all means. I chose to discount some of her parents' flaws and instead read this book as an homage to her parents. To me, the key passage in the book is when Walls visits a classmate's home in West Virginia and sees the empty walls in the house (in stark contrast to her own home, which is cluttered with paintings and books and decorations) and rejects the notion that her classmate's father, passed out on the couch, bares any resemblance to her own father. After Walls recounts the story to her family, her mother replies that she should show compassion for her classmate because not everybody has \"all the advantages you kids do.\" Although the statement is ironic on its face, as the family fights over the crumbs of a chocolate bar, the distinction is clear: Walls' family may not provide her with much in the way of tangible goods, but they give her things that are more lasting \u2013 a belief in herself, a passion for reading and writing, an appreciation for things a lot of us take for granted, and most of all love. In the end, it was not important whether her parents actually built her a glass castle. It was that they gave her the idea of a glass castle. By overcoming her shame for her parents and writing this memoir, Walls seems to recognize this truth about her parents \u2013 that, like the Joshua tree, there was beauty in their struggle. ...more This book really made me angry--why can people who have absolutely no business having kids be able to have four? Let me backtrack... In the beginning, the Walls family is always on the run. The father is an alcoholic, who is intelligent, but believes everything upon everything is a conspiracy. He can't get a job because of the mafia, the government, the gestapo...The mother has a teaching degree, but chooses to be an artist. The family is barely able to scrape by; the father spends any money they This book really made me angry--why can people who have absolutely no business having kids be able to have four? Let me backtrack... In the beginning, the Walls family is always on the run. The father is an alcoholic, who is intelligent, but believes everything upon everything is a conspiracy. He can't get a job because of the mafia, the government, the gestapo...The mother has a teaching degree, but chooses to be an artist. The family is barely able to scrape by; the father spends any money they have on alcohol, the kids barely eat, and all this time, the mother sits around, doing nothing but reading. In fact, at one point, the 12 year old narrator Jeannette tells her mother that she needs to get a job, and her mother says that it's \"not fair\" that she has to work. Later, when Jeannette suggests that her mother get a job and home with a wealthy family and take care of the kids, her mother says, \"I've spent my whole life taking care of people! I just want to take care of me.\" Perhaps now you can see why this book made me so angry. I know that there are people like Jeannette's parents who feed their children margarine sandwiches and tell them to go to the bathroom in a bucket that is dumped outside because there's no indoor plumbing and the \"toilet\" is already completely filled. I know that these people exist, but I still can't believe it. A part of me was hoping that Walls pulled a James Frey and made a lot of this up, but another part of me realizes she probably didn't. Despite the knot in the pit of my stomach, I enjoyed the book. After all, only a book this engaging and well-written could spark such a vivid and real response. It's a quick and easy read, and despite how angry I was for most of it, the book gave me hope that no matter how messed up a person's childhood is, he/she can still end up as a normal, productive part of society. ...more What I loved about this book is this: it presents her parents, with all their faults, and the poor mentality, at its worst, without anger, exasperation, or even really any judgment, just with the quirky love we all view our own childhoods. If she had been bitter in her description it would not have been believable, but instead it was tinged with forgiveness making me respect her for not only surviving such a strange childhood to become a successful, even functioning, adult but for being able to What I loved about this book is this: it presents her parents, with all their faults, and the poor mentality, at its worst, without anger, exasperation, or even really any judgment, just with the quirky love we all view our own childhoods. If she had been bitter in her description it would not have been believable, but instead it was tinged with forgiveness making me respect her for not only surviving such a strange childhood to become a successful, even functioning, adult but for being able to view her past with impartiality. What was thought-provoking for me was the idea that if you think you're a victim you are and if you don't you're not. As appalling as her mother's reaction was to her troubles, it's true. We do overprotect our children at the price of their own growth sometimes. And in this society we are on the jumpy side when it comes to misconduct, but telling someone they have been victimized isn't always best for them. It's not empowering. We've gone so much to the other extreme that it was good to reconsider a sway more toward center. There has to be a medium where we aren't making children grow up as toddlers but also not sheltering them from making their own decisions until their adults. There are also a lot of class \"poor\" mentalities in the book. The way the family never planned for the future as in aimed to use any gift or income to exponentially improve their lives, but horded means until they ran out. They tore down what they had until it ran out. They lived day to day. They took advantage when they could. The old adage that you give a man a fish he'll eat for a day but teach him to fish and he'll eat for a lifetime is moot. They were not concerned with bettering their station in life only getting all they could out of it today. I found it strange that both parents were so highly intelligent and capable and yet they chose to be homeless. It bothered me that they thought the best existence would be to throw their burdens on society and let it care for them without realizing, or caring, that someone was paying and working for their existence. It bothered me that they didn't think of their children's welfare above their own but used them like they would any other member of society. At times I found my blood boiling at the actions of her parents. That's what dysfunction will do to you. And yet, she presents the incidents without anger or hurt. It happened. It shaped her glasses of the world. But the past isn't a happy place to live. She took what good she could from her experience (or bad to learn from) and moved determinedly from a childhood she didn't enjoy into an adulthood she could pick. And that's what a memoir should do: show us the past to affect the future, not to give us a place to live. ...more Book Review: The Glass Castle by <---C>Jeannette Walls</---C> Jeannette Walls proves in her astounding memoir that bad parenting and abject poverty do not necessarily condemn children to a dismal future of the same. In \"The Glass Castle\" published in 2005 by Scribner, Walls reveals the intimate details of her upbringing within a dysfunctional yet loving family. \"The Glass Castle\" immediately grips you with an opening scene in which Walls, as an adult in New York City, sees from the window of her taxi her moth Book Review: The Glass Castle by Jeannette Walls Jeannette Walls proves in her astounding memoir that bad parenting and abject poverty do not necessarily condemn children to a dismal future of the same. In \"The Glass Castle\" published in 2005 by Scribner, Walls reveals the intimate details of her upbringing within a dysfunctional yet loving family. \"The Glass Castle\" immediately grips you with an opening scene in which Walls, as an adult in New York City, sees from the window of her taxi her mother scrounging through a dumpster. Her mother is homeless \u2013 one of those bag ladies that all of us see \u2013 but now you suddenly have to wonder what it would feel like if that was your mother dangling at the fringe of our society. From this shocking moment, Walls transports you back to her earliest memory. She is three years old and suffers a terrible burn to her torso when her dress catches on fire as she is boiling hotdogs on the stove. A long stay at the local hospital near where her family is currently living in Arizona ensues while Walls recovers. To the hospital staff, the negligence of the parents is obvious, but Jeannette does not associate the murmuring disapproval around her with her parents. If any action on the part of social services is planned, we never find out because her father, Rex Walls, plans an early check out from the hospital in his trademark \"Rex Walls' style.\" This means that he will grab his little girl and skip out of the hospital bill that he has no intention or means of paying. Jeannette is whisked away with her father, mother, older sister and younger brother and the family hits the road. It begins just one of many journeys in which the Walls family ends up in ramshackle trailers and shacks throughout the deserts of Nevada, Arizona, and California. They stay someplace a while until Rex can't pay the rent or won't and they skip town and do it all over again. Rex inspired the title of the book with the plans, lovingly worked out on paper, for his \"glass castle\" that he aspires to build some day. He often reassures his children with the promise of this fanciful housing. It is to be a solar-powered house, but first he needs to raise the money to build it, which entails numerous gold prospecting schemes that are doomed to failure. Because gold-hunting never pays the bills, Rex also finds work as an electrician or handyman. He is smart and mechanically talented, but his earnings inevitably are washed away in the flash floods of drinking that perpetually leave his family destitute. In an engulfing narrative that sweeps you deeper into an almost unimaginable existence of privation, we see how Jeannette and her siblings cope with their destructively alcoholic father and beg their mother to function and get them food. The mother, in fact, has a teaching degree, but she rarely can drag herself into employability. Although the various rural areas where they live are always desperate for a qualified teacher, the mother cannot abide work and only occasionally holds down a job \u2013 with the help of her children who get her out of bed. The infrequent paychecks of the mother rarely go into the rumbling bellies of her children. Rex will invariably claim his wife's paycheck and set about squandering it. This desperate state goes on for years as the Walls children sleep in cardboard boxes instead of beds, endure scalding fights between their parents, and eat anything they can find. Their mother teaches them how to swallow spoiled food by holding their noses. But even amid these horrors of poverty and alcoholism, Jeannette Walls expresses the genuine love within her family. They are loyal to each other, and Rex, in his sober moments, is wise, encouraging, and tender with his children. In her memoir, Walls brilliantly crafts her experiences so that we can see the transformation of awareness that takes place as she grows up. As a little girl, she is uncritical of her parents. She loves them and does not realize how awfully deprived her life is. But as she and her siblings mature, they definitely realize that the shortcomings of their parents are not acceptable. The adolescent years of Jeannette are spent in West Virginia, where her father retreats to his hometown after going completely bust in Arizona. The life of the Walls in West Virginia is appalling as they occupy a shack at \"93 Little Hobart Street.\" The roof leaks. The plumbing does not work. The Walls family buries its trash and sewage in little holes it digs. They almost never have any food. Jeannette goes through high school digging leftover sandwiches out of the garbage, and Rex fills the role of town drunk. As miserable want defines their lives, Jeannette's mother does the most infuriating things. When Jeannette and her brother find a diamond ring, they immediately want to sell it for food, but their mother keeps it to \"improve her self esteem.\" And so they go on starving. As Jeannette Walls tells the story of her disgraceful upbringing, you will admire her perseverance and that of her siblings. The Walls children eventually take charge of their own lives and support each other into normal adult lives in a beautiful display of closeness among siblings. Every page of \"The Glass Castle\" will shock you with the shameless and selfish actions of parents who are unable and unwilling to even try to take care of their children or themselves. Despite her appalling parents, Walls rarely chastises them with her writing. Her love for her parents often comes through with aching dismay. Much more happens throughout this amazing memoir than has been mentioned here. \"The Glass Castle\" is mesmerizing and an impossible book to put down. It is truly a masterpiece of storytelling and far superior than the typical bestseller. ...more Okay, I originally gave this one star but then had to go back and re-rate it to a two b/c I surprised a couple of you guys and in my impulsive way, I realized perhaps one star was a bit too knee jerk. It's not that I hated The Glass Castle, it's just that it irritated me with its self-conscious narrative style. Too much \"look at how horrible things were!\" and not enough detail or challenges to make me really care. The same stories are told and re-told throughout the memoir novel , and they rely too Okay, I originally gave this one star but then had to go back and re-rate it to a two b/c I surprised a couple of you guys and in my impulsive way, I realized perhaps one star was a bit too knee jerk. It's not that I hated The Glass Castle, it's just that it irritated me with its self-conscious narrative style. Too much \"look at how horrible things were!\" and not enough detail or challenges to make me really care. The same stories are told and re-told throughout the memoir novel , and they rely too much on symbolism for my taste. I don't know how many times The Glass Castle is mentioned, but it was clear enough the first time we're told about it. Yes, I get it. Pretty shiny vulnerable fragile fortress - drunk father whose fantasies are selfish and unstable. Mother who's out to lunch. No money - just imaginations. Okay. Got it. Then, before we really have connected to any of the characters in their youth, we fast forward to today's NYC in which lo and behold, the storyteller is a successful writer. Gag. Basically, this book is a pale imitation of The Liar's Club. Karr's book is a jump off a cliff into a bravely realized memoir with enormous depth in the details, not to mention the writer's conflicted feelings about the meaning of father, of mother, of family, of self. By being so specific about her life and her family's life, Karr touches us deeply about family and self, too. Walls had an interesting life, but the story reads like someone else's family's trip. So that's why I'm giving it a 2. :) ...more The warning is this: If you are going to become parents you must simply forego being bohemian. Otherwise your children might grow up to be super successful & you will end up eating trash off dark alleyways... Peculiar upbringings are what memoirs are made of! We saw this in the Frank McCourt gray & sad \"Angela's Ashes\", and even more so in any of the Augusten Burroughs books (mainly \"Running with Scissors\"). When memoirs are like this, invigoratingly Roald Dahlesque in painting pictures o The warning is this: If you are going to become parents you must simply forego being bohemian. Otherwise your children might grow up to be super successful & you will end up eating trash off dark alleyways... Peculiar upbringings are what memoirs are made of! We saw this in the Frank McCourt gray & sad \"Angela's Ashes\", and even more so in any of the Augusten Burroughs books (mainly \"Running with Scissors\"). When memoirs are like this, invigoratingly Roald Dahlesque in painting pictures of past predicaments... and obviously the survival of the protagonist, the reader reads on. No matter how bad you have it, someone somewhere sometime probably had it worse. The Walls children (3 of the 4, at least) become inspired by their nomadic parents, wanting to be so unlike their progenitors that they turn their lives around. Here is testament of someone living way under the poverty level in modern times & getting out alive and a smarter woman for it. That she appreciates it and maintains a smile is the very heart of this nonfic gem. ...more Why is it that I hated this book when everyone else thinks it was good? It annoyed me on so many levels. I kept thinking to myself....\"alright, I get it...life sucks, move on\". I just have so little sympathy and empathy sometimes, especially in books, that this just IRKED me. Sure, the writing was well done, the prose effective, the story was a bit enchanting...I just could NOT understand why this book got such great reviews. In fact, the reviews is why I kept reading it. Had someone else though Why is it that I hated this book when everyone else thinks it was good? It annoyed me on so many levels. I kept thinking to myself....\"alright, I get it...life sucks, move on\". I just have so little sympathy and empathy sometimes, especially in books, that this just IRKED me. Sure, the writing was well done, the prose effective, the story was a bit enchanting...I just could NOT understand why this book got such great reviews. In fact, the reviews is why I kept reading it. Had someone else thought it was CRAP I would have put it down without finishing. Walls whines and complains through the whole book about how difficult her childhood was, yet she was still able to be admitted to an IVY LEAGUE school. Ok, my childhood wasn't as bad as hers, I am bright, yet I hadn't the je ne se quoi to get into an Ivy league. Perhaps, the editor deleted a HUGE chapter in her memoir which would have filled the gap between living in a weatherproof shack and going to college, but it just didn't do it for me. Okay, so most people will likely bash me for being an idiot, but I really don't care. It annoyed me. That's all for my rant...thanks for your time. :) ...more It's no secret that I get to read on the job. I proofread for a financial publisher, which means that I spend my days getting lost in the lilting legalese of prospectuses, trustee meeting results, shareholder reports, highlight sheets \u2013 it's riveting stuff, trust me. But we're a small operation with only a few clients and the fiscal schedule is defined by a feast-or-famine work flow: While the numbers are still being tabulated, portfolio managers are polishing their semiannual interviews and sty It's no secret that I get to read on the job. I proofread for a financial publisher, which means that I spend my days getting lost in the lilting legalese of prospectuses, trustee meeting results, shareholder reports, highlight sheets \u2013 it's riveting stuff, trust me. But we're a small operation with only a few clients and the fiscal schedule is defined by a feast-or-famine work flow: While the numbers are still being tabulated, portfolio managers are polishing their semiannual interviews and style redesigns are being approved before the work descends in avalanches, I\u2019m usually catching up on my reading with on-the-clock me-time. Since it\u2019s almost instinctive to dislike the person whose job it is scrutinize and correct everyone else\u2019s work (especially when said person has one of the few oh-so-coveted offices with a window overlooking the bucolic charm of two parking lots and a heavily traveled roadway), I have spent the better part of my three years there endearing myself to my coworkers to soften the blow when I literally cannot hack through a report because it\u2019s so choked with errors. My efforts have mostly paid off and a number of my mom-aged coworkers have grown rather maternal with me, as it\u2019s also not a secret that I stopped speaking to my parents more than two years ago. When a coworker recently came into my office brandishing an almost-finished book and saying that she kept thinking of me while reading this memoir she couldn\u2019t put down, I assumed she was referring to the way I always have my nose in some kind of reading material at work. And then a little bit of research revealed that \u201cThe Glass Castle\u201d was about growing up under the rule of parents who clearly had no business accepting the responsibility of parenthood, which was when I realized that this was my coworker\u2019s way of reaching out to me. A couple of days and maybe about 100 pages (and a lot of wincing because, holy crap, the Walls kids are tiny troopers) later, I got into a car accident during my commute home via a road that sees about seven or eight accidents a day, most of them during rush hour because it is a totally good idea to have a direct route to and from Philly narrow down to two lanes in one of the area\u2019s larger suburban oases. Long story short, I escaped the ordeal with my admittedly low expectations of humanity exceeded by miles. As I watched the tow-truck driver (who was totally cool with my nervous habit of asking a thousand rapid-fire questions as he drove both my car and me to the auto-body shop) load up my beloved, battered car with minimal fanfare, the last sigh of relief I heaved tasted something like \u201cAt least I don\u2019t have to explain this to my parents.\u201d The thought resurfaced throughout the evening, like when my husband met me at the mechanic's and I just lost whatever composure I'd been faking when he was right there to help me out of the truck before pulling me into a bear hug. And later when my in-laws, who live right next door and treat me like the daughter they\u2019ve always wanted, greeted me with open arms, said that Mom\u2019s car was all ready for me whenever I was ready to go back to work (as they all but told me that I was going to stay home for a day or two) and reiterated that \u201cA car can be replaced but you can\u2019t\u201d every other sentence and meant it . By the time I was going fetal on my couch and started to feel the damage that a seat belt and steering wheel are capable of (which is surprisingly extensive when you\u2019re a small-statured, large-chested woman who always knew she\u2019d pay for leaning too far forward while driving), still marveling over how I received neither a single verbal evisceration nor a ticket after two of the most emotionally draining hours of my recent existence, I blurted some garbled admission to my husband about not knowing how to stop expecting someone to punish me, which is about when I realized that I\u2019ve spent my adult life bracing myself to be torn down for every misstep as if the fate of the universe relied on me not fucking up, which isn\u2019t entirely unlike the way my parents reacted to the staggering majority of the things that came naturally to me. I called out of work for two days not because my boobs were bleeding (they were) or because it hurt to move my neck (it did) or because pulling open doors made me feel like my chest was on fire (holy crap, did it ever), though my collection of minor injuries eased the terminally itchy conscience that won't even be appeased by having a valid excuse for calling out and leaving other people to pick up my slack unless I accept a load of Catholic-sized guilt in exchange lest I give myself a few justifiable recovery days without the appropriate reciprocal suffering. I needed some time to consider how much an inherently lousy experience opened my eyes to damage I didn\u2019t even know I was still carrying around (what the hell, surely talking about going to therapy is just as good as actually going, right?). My coping method of choice? Alternately napping like a champ and juggling three books, including this memoir of the girl who was born to a bitterly brilliant drunk she idolized and an indifferent, self-involved artist who she tried so hard to understand, only to become the person she was meant to be with little support from the two people who should have been there to cheer her on all the way. Like I\u2019d said, I knew I wasn\u2019t going to be unbiased in how I approached Jeannette Walls\u2019s coming-of-age story: No matter how sympathetically she painted her parents (which she did quite well), I knew I wouldn\u2019t be able to stop myself from resenting them for failing their children. But then the little-girl hero worship Jeanette felt for her tortured, misunderstood genius of her father just struck every raw nerve I have and just poked and poked until I had to physically distance myself from the book. The killer was that I\u2019d stew in whatever calamity last befell these children to the point of needing to know how things were resolved (or avoided entirely). It's distracting to be doing other things and thinking about the book you'd rather be reading. Not even the blatantly narcissistic ravings of Jeannette\u2019s mother sounded enough alarms to keep me from venturing back to this book if I\u2019d stray too far for too long. And I\u2019d\u2019ve thrown the book across the room at Mrs. Walls\u2019s \u201cI\u2019m not crying because you\u2019re leaving me for New York City; I\u2019m crying because you\u2019re going and I\u2019m not!\u201d outburst had I not already been forced to corral all my determination to return this borrowed book in acceptable condition after Mama W -- whose \u201cOh, I don\u2019t believe in discipline because children need to learn their own lessons\u201d philosophy barely disguised the maternal disinterest and selfish absence that I know all too well \u2013 wailed that she has sacrificed so much for her children when the scamps had demonstrated time and again that they\u2019re more responsible for their family than the matriarch is. I, uh, may have transferred a lot of my own lingering anger at my emotionally damaging mother onto Mrs. Walls, which makes me question how justified my screaming dislike of her is. The less said about Papa Walls, the better. My father might not have been a hopeless drunk but I kind of wish he had some kind of excuse for routinely breaking promises to the children who thought the sun rose and set on him. An absent mother is easy to hate while growing up and even easier to pity once you\u2019ve come of age. That simpering animosity is something you get used to after a while and, if you\u2019re like Jeannette and a better person than I am, you simply accept that your self-involved mother has constructed such an elaborate alternate reality around herself that nothing real can get through to her if she doesn\u2019t want it to, that she can even turn homelessness into an enviable adventure. But an idolized father\u2019s fall from grace? The older you get, the harder it is when you finally realize the one person you\u2019ve told yourself can do anything is the person who's let you down with the least remorse. That first hard look at how helpless and broken the man behind the curtain is.... that is not easy to come back from. That\u2019s how little girls grow up to become giant messes. When Jeannette found her way to the school paper and sampled her first taste of print journalism's sweet, sweet escapist nectar.... oh, my heart went out to her younger self in eagerly over-earnest ways. Being a half-consumed whiskey bottle rolling around an otherwise empty desk away from calling herself a true-blooded journalist at such a young age would have won me over if the entire book preceding such a moment hadn't already made me want to see Jeannette find her place in the world. Newsroom nostalgia will always be the easiest way to my too-soft heart. I am amazed that this isn\u2019t one of those \u201cOh my God, so let me tell you about my super-sad story so you\u2019ll feel just awful about the craptastic childhood I had and then you\u2019ll be totally amazed at how far I\u2019ve come and how functional I am hey, why don\u2019t you love me yet please love me and feel sorry for me I need your sympathy give it to me \u201d memoirs, thank bouncing Baby Jesus. It\u2019s a documentation of these things that happened to the four Walls children and how at least three of them embraced responsible independence and sibling camaraderie. Walls describes what she sees, reporting the facts and supplying exposition as needed like any good journalist. Also like a good journalist, emotions get minimal face time here. Jeannette is the perfect narrator because it seems as though she is the most willing to accept her parents for what they are. Even though I selfishly wanted to know how her adult self dealt with the fallout of her turbulent childhood (because every little adult grows up to be a big child, let's be honest), I found myself admiring how Jeannette was in no way reliant on cheap feelings to maneuver the story to its conclusion. Jeannette and her siblings are the heroes of this story. They get themselves out of a bad situation one by one, fishing out each younger sibling as the means become available. Because what\u2019s a better introduction to a new life of stability after years of only knowing that what comes next is an obstacle you can rely on exactly yourself and your equally young siblings to overcome? Christ, I still have two more reviews to catch up on and a stack of pumpkin pancakes that are clearly not going to eat themselves (unless they plan to fight me for the privilege). In short, this book was fucking great but it struck far too close to home in ways I may have overly personalized. It didn't make me laugh like it did my coworker but it sure as hell did make me appreciate how Jeannette Walls turned out. I've had a lot of people recently and unknowingly demonstrate that humanity might not be as awful as I've always thought it to be, and witnessing a grown child forgive her parents for their many crimes against her certainly made for the kind of book that confirmed it's probably time to fix my perspective. Maybe we're not as fucked of a species as I've feared all along. ...more I know many people love this book, remarking on how powerful and moving it was, but I had some deep problems with the narrator's memory process, and some issues about what lessons I was ultimately supposed to learn here. It is a riveting tale, full of unforgettable suffering, strife, and perseverance, about growing up with two bohemian-minded parents, one a raging alcoholic and the other a manic depressive. It is the story of the dangerous synergy that combination produced, and how the narrator I know many people love this book, remarking on how powerful and moving it was, but I had some deep problems with the narrator's memory process, and some issues about what lessons I was ultimately supposed to learn here. It is a riveting tale, full of unforgettable suffering, strife, and perseverance, about growing up with two bohemian-minded parents, one a raging alcoholic and the other a manic depressive. It is the story of the dangerous synergy that combination produced, and how the narrator and her siblings endured, withstood, and (well, some of them) triumphed. The film, when made, should do well at the box office. However, I am reminded of how a friend once explained Narcissism to me. \"Narcissists,\" he said, \"have to be the biggest Victims in the room and the strongest Heroes in the room--and they demand to be recognized as both at the same time.\" My problem is, I found the narrator to be narcissistic, and I stopped believing her version of all the events, especially after I came across a few factual references that totally seemed incorrect based on my own experience and knowledge. These were things someone who lived the experience would have known. (She certainly claims to have a vivid memory of a lot of things that happened when she was three years old, too!) Although doubtful of the veracity, I was compelled by the series of diverse settings, the odd mix of characters, and the ongoing unpredictable calamities to read on and see what happens, if anything, at the end. ...more Honestly, simply a must read. Wow. Firstly, thank you to my friend Elyse for recommending this book. She knows what I like. Wow this woman. Wow this family. I have just finished reading this books last pages whilst making my lasagne to feed my family, hastily stirring the white sauce and throwing in the bay leaves. The irony isn't lost on me.. I needed to finish this story. But! Mental illness is all around. This family is a perfect example, and also one of resilience. Hey, these children have m Honestly, simply a must read. Wow. Firstly, thank you to my friend Elyse for recommending this book. She knows what I like. Wow this woman. Wow this family. I have just finished reading this books last pages whilst making my lasagne to feed my family, hastily stirring the white sauce and throwing in the bay leaves. The irony isn't lost on me.. I needed to finish this story. But! Mental illness is all around. This family is a perfect example, and also one of resilience. Hey, these children have more successful careers than I do! I always tell my kids that it takes all types to make the world go round. Jeannette Wells has crafted this memoir with passion and strength and devotion, but what blew me away most of all, there was not one shred of self pity packed into this. I know what I'm like in my little world, there is no way I could be this giving, NO WAY! I'm very interested in this amazing lady, I will find her books now and I so look forward to see how she's travelling. I could learn a thing or two, and that's what I'm always looking for. And she can write!! **Addendum: This was an amazing book that my favourite GR friend from the States recommended. I went to the library and got my copy. Months later I came across this book in my (unorganised double layered Ikea shelf thingy) book shelf, that I'd borrowed from my aunt in Queensland. It turns out all of her siblings had read it, making their own notes all over the book. This was a special book, I shouldn't have taken it with me.. But I'm so glad I got to return it. It turns out my aunt had had a similar childhood - I knew she'd struggled, but didn't realise to the extent. This book connection made me love my Aunty Donna even more. We aren't close geographically but I got to see her last month and talked about the book, and that I am grateful for. When 'people' say they've had it hard, have they really? ...more Once I let my frustration with the parents' neglect go, I actually enjoyed this book. Because of her matter-of-fact, non-whining writing, I enjoyed reading this book the entire time and actually put off other things so I could read more. As a disclaimer to my following comments, I am in no way condoning all of their parenting style and I also acknowledge they did not provide for their children like a parent should, but I have to say that I learned quite a bit from her parents! The positive thing Once I let my frustration with the parents' neglect go, I actually enjoyed this book. Because of her matter-of-fact, non-whining writing, I enjoyed reading this book the entire time and actually put off other things so I could read more. As a disclaimer to my following comments, I am in no way condoning all of their parenting style and I also acknowledge they did not provide for their children like a parent should, but I have to say that I learned quite a bit from her parents! The positive things from this book stuck with me, not the negative ones, so that is what my comments will be about. The description of her growing up years gave me ideas and motivation of how to be passionate about hobbies and life in general. Her parents taught me how to make learning fun and to see the potential in people and situations (i.e.\"this house needs fixing, but it has good bones\"). I went away from this book with a desire to have more vigor and creativity in life and to pass that on to my children (i.e. the mom bought tons of shoes from thrift stores and played classical/jazz/country/etc. music and they danced around having a ball while learning all about different genres of music). I also feel that we've become too much of \"helicopter\" parents -- hovering over our children making sure we direct every thought and action they have. We see this as helping, but I think it is actually detrimental to their own learning and growth. We are seeing the effects of dependent, inexperienced college-aged kids (this was most notable in southern CA). I think many of life's lessons could and should be learned at home, which means a loosening of the reins so that mistakes are still made while we are around to help as parents. Granted, in the book, her parents take this self-learning to an extreme, but I still learned from it. My perception is that (the US) society labels you as a \"bad parent\" if your child is allowed to 1)fall off a slide at the playground, 2)go without their snack one day at school if they forgot it(vs. you bringing it to them), 3) sort out a (non-physical) fight they got in with a friend without a parent getting involved, etc. I also found it amusing that she had such hard time accepting that her mom wanted to be homeless. I can understand how she'd still be embarrased or get tired of having to explain to people, but I agreed with her mom when she said that her daughter had the problem with esteem because she still worried about what other people thought. Anyway, it got me thinking so much about what's most important in life and how important love is (I never once doubted her parents love for her and she gave the impression that she never did either) that I highly recommend it! I had a couple friends that didn't like it, mostly because they couldn't get past things like her digging in trash cans at school because she was so hungry('People like that shouldn't be allowed to have kids' they said). But it was all the other things I learned (naming a star for your birthday) that makes me want to read it again. ...more From my Amazon.com review: \"Sometimes people get the lives they want...\" A stunning memoir, hard to put down. Walls is superb with details, a true genius. She is a fine example of a self-made, successful person. But throughout most of the book, I was so angry with the parents, her mother in particular: When the kids had nothing to eat, she hid a king-sized Hershey bar in her bed for herself. She had an excuse for her behavior, whining that she's a \"sugar addict.\" (And later, she refuses to get a From my Amazon.com review: \"Sometimes people get the lives they want...\" A stunning memoir, hard to put down. Walls is superb with details, a true genius. She is a fine example of a self-made, successful person. But throughout most of the book, I was so angry with the parents, her mother in particular: When the kids had nothing to eat, she hid a king-sized Hershey bar in her bed for herself. She had an excuse for her behavior, whining that she's a \"sugar addict.\" (And later, she refuses to get a job (or keep one, when she gets them) because she's an \"excitement addict.\" Really, it seems like she's rather immature and lazy. How exciting is it to sleep all day or have tantrums about blaming her children for her failures as an artist?) When Brian and Jeannette found the diamond ring, they could have used it to buy necessities like food and clothes, but their mother needed it for her precious self-esteem. She really lacks motivation to get up and do something about their deplorable living conditions, but is too selfish to do so. When Uncle Stanley groped Jeannette, he mother didn't seem too concerned and actually felt sorry for the uncle, believing him to be lonely! She refuses Welfare, despite the fact that her pride is harming her children, a form of child abuse and negligence. They are living in squalor but it's supposed to be an \"adventure.\" The house is filthy with the mold, trash, mushrooms growing in the corners, and the lack of heat and indoor plumbing. It is not an acceptable environment and I'm surprised the gov't man didn't come back. If you really love your children, you should provide for them, even if you hate charity. Instead, she spends most of her time feeling sorry for herself, if she isn't pursuing her true calling as an artist. And when she doesn't go back to one of her teaching jobs, she reasons, \"It's time I did something for myself..It's time I started living my life for me...Why do I have to earn the money? You [Jeannette] have a job.\" It just made me so angry to hear her talk that way to her own daughter. She has no sense of responsibility. \"I've got more important things to do,\" she also said. For all her artistic ideals, she is whiny, pathetic, seems to care more about strangers and stray animals than her children. And it was ridiculous how she didn't want to kill the flies and cockroaches, and felt sorry for the big rat in the sugar bowl. She is encouraging the unhealthy conditions by keeping pests alive, so it seems that while she doesn't want to deprive insects and animals of food (\"they need to eat too\"), it's ok if her children starve. And no, I'm not forgetting the father. I must admit that I had a soft spot for him, despite his alcoholism. He at least attempted to be a father, showing love to Jeannette and making her feel special,educating her on many subjects. I got teary when reading about how he read the same books on Jeannette's college reading lists so he could help her with any questions. He was more interested in her life than her mother was. But I was disgusted with Rex when he let the man at the bar take her upstairs. Definitely not a saint, but much more likeable than the mom in my view. I really admired Jeannette in the poli-sci class, when the prof is talking about the causes of homelessness. It cannot always be blamed on drugs and SS cuts - there is a degree of personal responsibilty, as I alluded to in the title of this review. As Jeannette said, \"If people worked hard and compromised...they could make ends meet.\" It angered the prof but I was proud of her. I wish she had told the truth about her background though. Yes, I'm hard on the parents, but they make me admire the author even more, for breaking free from the traps of her parents' self-made poverty. She never gave up, and I know that if I'd been in her shoes, I wouldn't have made it. ...more Just finished reading this fantastic memoir for the second time after having enjoyed it the first go round over a decade ago. Knowing what was coming down the track, this reading was even more satisfying, as I could slow down and savor her words instead of rushing ahead. I thought that everybody in the world had already read this but am in a new book club where my husband and I were the only ones lucky enough to have already done so. What a treat it was to revisit this after 10 years! Walls had a Just finished reading this fantastic memoir for the second time after having enjoyed it the first go round over a decade ago. Knowing what was coming down the track, this reading was even more satisfying, as I could slow down and savor her words instead of rushing ahead. I thought that everybody in the world had already read this but am in a new book club where my husband and I were the only ones lucky enough to have already done so. What a treat it was to revisit this after 10 years! Walls had a truly dysfunctional childhood, but knew that she was the apple of her alcoholic father's eye. The love from him, her siblings, and her own plucky self-determination certainly gave her a path through some very bizarre circumstances and into a successful adulthood. Having her father take her hand and stick it through the bars of a cheetah cage at the zoo and being instructed by her mother to simply cut off the maggot-loaded portions of unrefrigerated food and eat the portion that had not yet been touched, Walls learned wonder and pragmatism from her oddball parents. This book is loaded with anecdotes, one after another, full of amazing and horrifying and beautiful moments. As a parent myself, my loathing of the parents in the story climbed and climbed, but because this memoir was told from the perspective of Walls as a little girl first, I also fell in love with her mom and dad just a little bit. She narrates the tale in real time, and as she becomes a teenager with more open eyes, her disappointment in these parents becomes palpable. One could say that this is a rags to riches story, but the treasure was always there - despite the poverty, they were rich in the love they had for each other. ...more This is not a review. There are already thousands of those. Instead, I present an anecdote. I read this in 2008 for my now-defunct neighborhood book club. I decided that my oldest son, who was then 14, should read it for \"Mom's Summer Reading Plan\" - also known as the Mom-Forces-Us-To-Read-For-Half-An-Hour-Each-Day-Torture-Program by certain members of the family. I felt it was important for him to learn that not every child gets to grow up in a household that has eight different video game syste This is not a review. There are already thousands of those. Instead, I present an anecdote. I read this in 2008 for my now-defunct neighborhood book club. I decided that my oldest son, who was then 14, should read it for \"Mom's Summer Reading Plan\" - also known as the Mom-Forces-Us-To-Read-For-Half-An-Hour-Each-Day-Torture-Program by certain members of the family. I felt it was important for him to learn that not every child gets to grow up in a household that has eight different video game systems. I wanted him to imagine what it would be like if his father came home one night and said \"We have to move right now. You can take ONE THING with you.\" Well, he grumbled and he whined. Then he shut up and started to read. He never said too much about the book, though he liked the part where the rat would come to eat out of the mother's big bowl of sugar. And then I saw on his Facebook profile that he had listed The Glass Castle as his favorite book. Huh, how 'bout that? And now, seven years later, my youngest son came home with the book he has to read for English class. Guess what it is? You got it! Ah . . . sweet vindication. Yup, yup, yup! ...more Despite my extreme reluctance to reading family dysfunction memoirs, it was (thanks to my Goodreads friends' overwhelmingly positive reception to this, as well as an announcement of its big-screen adaptation) nigh time to finally give it a try. What Jeannette Walls' The Glass Castle lacks in poetic splash and clear-cut veracity, it more than makes up for with the one of the most compulsively readable, train-wreckiest stories about an f'ed-up childhood I've ever encountered. On multiple occasions Despite my extreme reluctance to reading family dysfunction memoirs, it was (thanks to my Goodreads friends' overwhelmingly positive reception to this, as well as an announcement of its big-screen adaptation) nigh time to finally give it a try. What Jeannette Walls' The Glass Castle lacks in poetic splash and clear-cut veracity, it more than makes up for with the one of the most compulsively readable, train-wreckiest stories about an f'ed-up childhood I've ever encountered. On multiple occasions I found myself exclaiming \" there's no way in hell anyone's parents could be this horrid\", yet by book's end, Ms. Walls succeeds in convincing us just that. What's remarkable is that, as wretched as the Walls siblings' lives must've been, as terrible as (we all must certainly recognize) their parents certainly were, Walls is able to somehow burrow deep and extract love from the cesspool of crap parenting. That she (along with her siblings) was able to convey that love, and rise above to become relatively successful adults is somewhat of a miracle; certainly memoir-worthy, anyway. Really glad I gave this one a chance. ...more Rating: 4* of five The Publisher Says : The Glass Castle is a remarkable memoir of resilience and redemption, and a revelatory look into a family at once deeply dysfunctional and uniquely vibrant. When sober, Jeannette's brilliant and charismatic father captured his children's imagination, teaching them physics, geology, and how to embrace life fearlessly. But when he drank, he was dishonest and destructive. Her mother was a free spirit who abhorred the idea of domesticity and didn't want the resp Rating: 4* of five The Publisher Says : The Glass Castle is a remarkable memoir of resilience and redemption, and a revelatory look into a family at once deeply dysfunctional and uniquely vibrant. When sober, Jeannette's brilliant and charismatic father captured his children's imagination, teaching them physics, geology, and how to embrace life fearlessly. But when he drank, he was dishonest and destructive. Her mother was a free spirit who abhorred the idea of domesticity and didn't want the responsibility of raising a family. The Walls children learned to take care of themselves. They fed, clothed, and protected one another, and eventually found their way to New York. Their parents followed them, choosing to be homeless even as their children prospered. The Glass Castle is truly astonishing--a memoir permeated by the intense love of a peculiar but loyal family. My Review : Oh. My. God. Walls has a non-fiction novel coming out this month, so I decided to re-read the book that started all the ruckus before I got to Half-Broke Horses . A little backstory: I was romantically involved with a man for some time while I lived in Austin, whom I met on a bus. I got on the bus, sat a few seats behind the cute, sandy-haired, rumpled guy with the prominent ears I spotted from the pay-stile, and sighed the happy sigh of one whose world contains all the things he needs: A job, a home, and all the men he can mentally undress and ravish. I was mid-mental ravishment when Blondie upset the applecart by bursting into tears. As quietly as he could, of course, but tears. A stop later, still crying. Stop after that, still crying. I got up, moved into the seat next to him across the aisle, and said, \"What the hell're you reading? I wanna be sure I never set an eyeball on it.\" That got a laugh, and he held up The Glass Castle and said it was sort of the story of his life. We talked for four hours that day. I gave him my email and number, and things progressed pretty smoothly until August 2008, but that's another story. He'd just read Walls's tale of her father taking her pubescent self to a pool-hall and getting her within an inch of getting raped, just so he'd have beer money. It struck a chord, and the story of his own stepfather's abuses of Mr. Man came spewing out of him. I've read the book before just now, specifically so I could discuss it with Mr. Man, but I did so with an already numbed horror bone and a severed humor tendon. Only now that I am several years beyond that initial encounter with the book can I see how very funny the tragic events in it are, and were to the author. I can see that it's gallows humor of a sort...but also that it's all perfect proof that life's a Zen joke. If you can chuckle at Dolly Parton's apercu, \"You have no idea how much it costs to look this cheap,\" then Walls is the next step up the Sisyphean slope of learning how to laugh like the Dalai Lama. It's a hard life that etches grooves in the looking-glass, but it's a path worth taking if you can get to the place where \"textured\" is valued more than smooth. Read the book, you'll know what I mean. ...more It's hard in some ways to write a review for The Glass Castle , a bestselling, beloved book that I've been aware of since it came out in hardcover and then paperback and I remember we could never seem to keep it in stock as a teenager working part time at an indie bookstore. I didn't read much nonfiction then, so I never picked it up. Only now have I turned my attention to Jeannette Walls' memoir, seeing it as some glaring oversight in terms of big books or authors I haven't read and need to addr It's hard in some ways to write a review for The Glass Castle , a bestselling, beloved book that I've been aware of since it came out in hardcover and then paperback and I remember we could never seem to keep it in stock as a teenager working part time at an indie bookstore. I didn't read much nonfiction then, so I never picked it up. Only now have I turned my attention to Jeannette Walls' memoir, seeing it as some glaring oversight in terms of big books or authors I haven't read and need to address ASAP. I'll start off by saying I enjoyed reading this, though my enjoyment felt occasionally like rubbernecking at a five car pile up on the highway and one is a tractor-trailer and it's on fire, and so my enjoyment made me a bit comfortable at times (which is no bad thing, it's great when books push you to recognize your own bias and perspective and question yourself morally). Walls' childhood is littered with anecdotes by turn fascinating and horrifying and humorous, and she achieves a fantastic balance covering what it was like to grow up the child of Rex and Rose Mary Walls in an objective, dispassionate way, but also is able to show how she and (most of) her siblings were able to survive and thrive in spite of (and Walls allows \"because of\" too) her dysfunctional, chaotic upbringing. And though Rex and Rose Mary have some truly abominable, selfish, insane moments between them, there's also love, education, and resilience passed from parent to child and then back the other way, and the sibling bond is protective, fierce, and funny. This is one of the gold standards for family memoir and fucked up childhood memoir for a reason. But as much as her childhood was illuminating and shocking, and I applaud Walls' candor about the levels of her parents misbehavior while also showing the positive qualities they were able to instill in their children, I didn't love this memoir. I suppose I judge nonfiction on a similar level to fiction, but in some ways my inner critic is a bit sharper. For nonfiction to be great for me, the narrative has to be absorbing and the research has to be sound, but I also prefer a distinctive and fluid writing style (not everything has to be lyrical, but I need more than a recitation of facts and events) and I prefer that the sum of the parts not be greater than the whole. Great memoirs for me (thinking of Insomniac City , The Best We Could Do and When Breath Becomes Air for starters) achieve this, so I'm overcome with feeling and appreciation and interest at the conclusion, and I've enjoyed the anecdotes presented, admired the prose, and been able to take away larger meaning, not necessarily for myself but for the broader human experience. I did not feel the same from The Glass Castle , probably from some combination of the removed, dry, journalistic prose (which I understand why she used it to tell her story effectively, but it did limit the emotional connection for me as a reader and could occasionally bore me as a lover of more exciting prose styles whether quiet or sharp or incisive or questioning or contemplative) and the lack of a larger connective thread beyond the very specific tale of overcoming parental obstacles by the Walls children. I guess ultimately for me The Glass Castle didn't transcend what it was at face value: a dysfunctional family history with an out for the author and siblings at the end. And for me to really like or love a memoir, I need more than just interesting anecdotes (though I readily admit I couldn't look away from the page as Walls related moments major and minor, completely insane and completely endearing). I'd probably rate this 3.5 stars and round down to 3 stars. I would recommend it to regular memoir readers if they haven't read this yet: again, I can see how and why this memoir is enduringly popular, and will probably bubble back onto bestsellers lists around the movie adaptation releases. But I didn't find it as special or transcendent as other memoirs I've read and loved recently, and so for me, it's a solid \"I liked it\". ...more A friend suggested that I read The Glass Castle by Jeannette Walls a few months ago, and I have to admit when she first described it I was a bit leery. I thought it was going to be one of those \u201cpoor pitiful me\u201d sagas about growing up with shitty parents. But I had heard a few things on the news about this woman and figured it was worth a try. First and foremost this book is anything but a \u201cpoor pitiful me\u201d story. Is they author\u2019s life difficult? Oh my gosh yes. That would be the understatement o A friend suggested that I read The Glass Castle by Jeannette Walls a few months ago, and I have to admit when she first described it I was a bit leery. I thought it was going to be one of those \u201cpoor pitiful me\u201d sagas about growing up with shitty parents. But I had heard a few things on the news about this woman and figured it was worth a try. First and foremost this book is anything but a \u201cpoor pitiful me\u201d story. Is they author\u2019s life difficult? Oh my gosh yes. That would be the understatement of the century. But the way she tells her story is incredibly refreshing. Every hardship is presented in such a matter-of-fact manner that you don\u2019t get the sense that she is trying to elicit sympathy. Rather she\u2019s just telling you about her life. There are moments, too, when I think she relishes in the fact that she unflinchingly faced these harsh circumstances and beat them (sometimes literally). There are times though I felt she was too blase about the neglect and abuse she and her siblings experienced. I wanted her to get angry and scream \u201cWHY ME?!?!\u201d a few times. But ultimately I think it was her mechanism for dealing with such a (for lack of a better phrase) fucked up life. She didn\u2019t give the circumstances too much weight, and therefore they had little power to control her and drag her down. However, it is impossible to read this book and not want to strangle these parents. If you looked up neglect in the dictionary, you\u2019d find their picture. Not only did they fail to supervise and protect their children from, oh, say, the dangers of cooking over an open flame, but they also turned a blind eye to all sorts of physical abuse from other family members and friends. The phrase, \u201cwhat doesn\u2019t kill you makes you stronger,\u201d MUST have been invented by Rex and Mary Walls. It is their excuse for everything. And yet, there are moments when you find it hard to completely hate these two people. In between the frustration and anger that their actions stir up, there are moments of good parenting. I loved how they treated their children like little adults when it came to education. There was no Elmo or Barney or Dora. Instead they taught them about the stars and physics and read great literary works to them. These kids grew into incredibly intelligent people because they were exposed to all kinds of information. I\u2019m sure at the time the parents were simply indulging their own interests, but it rubbed off on these kids in a way that flash cards and writing lines of spelling words never could. It created an insatiable curiosity about the world around them, which proved to be their only saving grace in the end. This is a jaw dropping account of one woman\u2019s life, and it is unlike any other memoir I\u2019ve ever picked up. Definitely add this to your must-read list. ...more I really enjoyed this memoir a lot. It is well written, interesting, and insightful. I liked getting this look into a family life that was so unlike mine. That being said, her story is so powerful and moving because despite all the things that happen to her she is still loving and forgiving. Overall really fantastic, this has probably ruined me for any other memoirs. A million stars!!! I LOVED this book! I wish I had had non stop uninterrupted hours to devour this book but I also didn't want it to end. I loved the family dynamics. What a unique bunch of people! The writing is simple and incredibly accessible so you felt really at home reading along. I actually had times where I felt envious of this nomadic carefree life that it had me rethinking my life of conventional suburban living. Made me think what a sheltered (boring?) life I've led lol. I love a book A million stars!!! I LOVED this book! I wish I had had non stop uninterrupted hours to devour this book but I also didn't want it to end. I loved the family dynamics. What a unique bunch of people! The writing is simple and incredibly accessible so you felt really at home reading along. I actually had times where I felt envious of this nomadic carefree life that it had me rethinking my life of conventional suburban living. Made me think what a sheltered (boring?) life I've led lol. I love a book that takes me out of my comfort zone and gives me a unique and different perspective on life. It's about a family who turn being poor (and boy I mean POOR!) and spin it into an adventure, they stick to their own values and don't care about conventions and fitting in. Although the parents are incredibly flawed many times clearly negligent, you also believed they loved each other immensely. The mum always optimistic and seeing the sunny side of life under the worst conditions was borderline psychotic not to mention criminal but still I loved all her crazy antics. The father always running away so he avoids paying bills and running from bad debts always doing the skedaddle made me laugh out loud many times. This was sad, funny (so funny!!) disturbing and a heck of a fun entertaining book full of whacky and colourful characters that you soon won't forget. I was amazed at the author's positive determination and resilience, she hardly ever had a bad word to say about her family other than to describe the scene. She never allowed her situation to dampen her outlook on life if anything it made her a more compassionate human being. What an admirable lady who deserves every success in life, she really is the definition of a rags to riches story and I loved every moment of this book. One of my favourite memoirs of all time! ...more \" We're giving love in a family dose \" \"We are family, I got all my sisters with me\" Rodgers/Edwards, We Are Family , 1978. The Glass Castle is a family fugue, with odes of joy mincing oh so many winces. Drunk dad, manic mom, 4 kids, living in poverty. I think this broke my all-time record for head shakes during reading, at what those parents put those kids through and the hell they gave each other. Yet, for all that the dad and mom took away and denied their children, they bestowed upon them a vivid i \" We're giving love in a family dose \" \"We are family, I got all my sisters with me\" Rodgers/Edwards, We Are Family , 1978. The Glass Castle is a family fugue, with odes of joy mincing oh so many winces. Drunk dad, manic mom, 4 kids, living in poverty. I think this broke my all-time record for head shakes during reading, at what those parents put those kids through and the hell they gave each other. Yet, for all that the dad and mom took away and denied their children, they bestowed upon them a vivid imagination, a healthy self-reliance, and a sometimes wonderful way of looking at the world and thinking \"everything's gonna be alright.\" More valuable tools than most in the world were given by their parents. This is a tender and beautiful reminder that we're all human, we all make mistakes (some more than others), but none of us are fit to judge (unless the kids' safety or welfare are endangered). We won't be privy to the magical thinking powers of some among us, and would likely be as shocked at its original source as we'd be amazed at the strength and succor it provides them. \u201cI've learned that regardless of your relationship with your parents, you'll miss them when they're gone from your life.\u201d \u2015 Maya Angelou Highly recommended. 4.6 stars. ...more OK, all right, I read The Glass Castle. Stop nagging me already. I've been avoiding this book for years because I was tired of dysfunctional family memoirs. Bookstores are saturated with them. Enough, I say! But I finally caved because I had loved Walls' novel Half Broke Horses, and because so many friends had raved about Glass Castle. (And if you haven't read Half Broke Horses, I highly recommend it.) Walls has a brisk writing style that I really like. Her chapters are short and direct -- you can OK, all right, I read The Glass Castle. Stop nagging me already. I've been avoiding this book for years because I was tired of dysfunctional family memoirs. Bookstores are saturated with them. Enough, I say! But I finally caved because I had loved Walls' novel Half Broke Horses, and because so many friends had raved about Glass Castle. (And if you haven't read Half Broke Horses, I highly recommend it.) Walls has a brisk writing style that I really like. Her chapters are short and direct -- you can tell she was trained in a newsroom because she knows how to describe a scene, make her point and then move the hell on to the next one. I've joked that I'm probably the last person in the country to read this book, but in case someone hasn't it's about Walls' crazy parents and her knock-around childhood. Her father was an alcoholic and her mother was a free spirit, neither could hold down a job and the family was constantly having to \"do the skedaddle\" and leave town when bill collectors came knocking. Walls and her siblings often went hungry and had to scavenge for food. Their home usually didn't have heat or electricity, and frankly it was a miracle the kids survived to adulthood. By the time Walls was an adult and had moved to New York, her parents had settled on being homeless and refused to do anything else. I will admit this book was difficult to read -- at times I was enraged by how awful the parents were. How could they be so selfish and neglectful? Here are some especially infuriating incidents: *When the parents locked their four children in the back of a U-Haul for a multi-state skedaddle. *When her parents couldn't be bothered to fix any number of crumbling, unsafe homes. *When her dad stole Walls' babysitting money so he could buy booze. *When her dad took her to a bar to be molested by pervy guys so he could hustle in pool. *When her mom refused to get a job to buy food for the kids. *Her mother constantly referring to their life as an adventure, and her father always daydreaming about get-rich quick schemes. Walls tacks on a final chapter that shows how well she and her siblings are doing as adults, but I'm dispirited after finishing this memoir. The stories are entertaining and shocking, but now I've got all this irritation and nowhere to put it. I wish I could build my own glass castle and store my anger there. Note: I mentioned how much I liked Walls' novel Half Broke Horses, and if you're new to her books, I recommend reading Horses first because it's about Walls' grandmother, and you'll get a better sense of where her mother came from. ...more I grew up in a similar situation as Ms. Walls. One thing that she has done that I haven't been able to make myself do is talk about my parents in a good light. She doesn't speak of her parents with any bad feelings. I did do that. I've made peace with my dad but my mom still pushes all my buttons. I loved this book. I can see myself finally starting to put the past behind me. We make ourselves what we are, our parents just give birth. Somehow the narrator steps outside of her unusual and unimaginable life and speaks about her experiences as if she was referring to someone else. I had to keep reminding myself that this was a memoir and not a work of fiction and that these were situations that were not created but recalled, and with such vivid details. There are four children in the Walls' family, all of whom turned out quite differently and whose experiences brought them to different places in their lives. Unfortunately, we onl Somehow the narrator steps outside of her unusual and unimaginable life and speaks about her experiences as if she was referring to someone else. I had to keep reminding myself that this was a memoir and not a work of fiction and that these were situations that were not created but recalled, and with such vivid details. There are four children in the Walls' family, all of whom turned out quite differently and whose experiences brought them to different places in their lives. Unfortunately, we only get to hear the perspective of one of them here and it is quite unlikely that the other three grown children remember the events the same way. Since I studied psychology in college, I was intrigued by the notion that despite their upbringing, these children, with the exception of one who we hear little about as an adult, turn out as normally functioning members of our society. Educated, too. It is quite apparent after reading this story that one does not need money or a plethora of material things to \"make it\" in the world. In fact, perhaps quite the opposite is true. Would the Walls' children learn the lessons they did if it weren't for their parents showing them and teaching them (without trying) that hard work and responsibility bring you certain advantages in life? After all, these children had to scrounge for their own food and learned to survive without their parents and in fact, spent many days and nights, most likely, worrying about them and taking care of them, both physically and emotionally. These children saw their neighbors and classmates in a much different light. While people looked to her with pity, Jeannette sees others much differently than they see themselves and is inspired and motivated by simply wanting more, wanting to have enough and not go hungry. One could argue that these children were neglected and that it would've been better for them to be removed from their home as children and brought into houses with warm food, warm beds and warm and loving 'parents.' One could also argue that being taken away from the only home and the only family they know could've done more harm than good. This is quite an interesting and thought-provoking book and one that will most likely become required reading as it focuses on survival and reveals how young people today no longer rely on their instincts. Their own survival skills are not tested since they are provided with every opportunity, and an overabundance of choices which could possibly take away the chances of their ability to \"make it on their own\" once they step into the real world. ...more Jeannette Walls, as a narrator, is such a delight to read. My first thought after finishing this novel was that I really really want to meet her in person. I had zero knowledge about who she was before I picked up her memoir, primarily due to the high ratings it has received from friends. After reading \u201cThe Glass Castle\u201d though, I am most definitely a fan. Jeannette Walls had the kind of life, which could have easily been recounted in a typical Bollywood movie way. That means the\u201dOh, I suffered s Jeannette Walls, as a narrator, is such a delight to read. My first thought after finishing this novel was that I really really want to meet her in person. I had zero knowledge about who she was before I picked up her memoir, primarily due to the high ratings it has received from friends. After reading \u201cThe Glass Castle\u201d though, I am most definitely a fan. Jeannette Walls had the kind of life, which could have easily been recounted in a typical Bollywood movie way. That means the\u201dOh, I suffered soo much\u201dand \u201coh, my childhood!\u201d way. In fact, that was a major concern I had while picking up this book. I can\u2019t sympathize with whinny people, even if they have actually been through a lot. Hopefully, our narrator is nothing like that. Self pity is a luxury she never indulges in. She narrates the sometimes sweet and other times horrifying incidents of her childhood and her life with her careless, irresponsible but still loving parents, without any judgement. She is so honest about her life and brave and I am amazed! What I love the most is how, the tone of the narrator\u2019s recollection change as she grows up. As a 3 year old, she is mesmerized with her parents, loving their adventure seeking nature. At 6, while travelling in the back of the truck, she is uncomfortable but not angry. Gradually, as years go by, with increasing interaction with the world, the realization and resentment seep in. She goes through every betrayal, gulps down her disappointment, works hard and finally gets out from Welch to New York, to success, to self empowerment. There is very little rage and bitterness in the whole narrative. It is so refreshing to read about. In spite of its realistic portrayal of a child\u2019s mind, there are a few annoying questions which popped in my mind. 1) She remembers conversations she had at the age of 3? 2) She read classics at 5? (MATILDA alert!) . 3) The barbeque incident? At 3? How can she\u2026\u2026\u2026..Oh well, what the hell! I liked this book, end of the story, stupid mind, and stop analyzing! 4stars, recommended! ...more In consideration of others, I think it's nice that this book was so straight-forwardly written, but at the same time, that's what made it very boring to me. I had a hard time visualizing anything because description of such was limited, and there was a lot of slang I didn't get. There were some really striking scenes in here, but after the first few, they got old. The scene I liked best was when Jeanette's father gives her Venus for Christmas. I really didn't like the tone of voice in this whole In consideration of others, I think it's nice that this book was so straight-forwardly written, but at the same time, that's what made it very boring to me. I had a hard time visualizing anything because description of such was limited, and there was a lot of slang I didn't get. There were some really striking scenes in here, but after the first few, they got old. The scene I liked best was when Jeanette's father gives her Venus for Christmas. I really didn't like the tone of voice in this whole book, because it was like priding the mishaps, and boasting how much suffering this family went through. I think the events of this are enough for that; the language doesn't need to dramatize it. Like someone else has mentioned, it makes me wonder what the purpose of this story is. It just seems like empty egotism in the end. The whole strange positive, casual attitude negates whatever it could have been. Mostly I had read this story because it made me curious...and I'm very weak to curiousity. I don't know what else would make me read it. The actual story of these people is unbelievable, but not well put. ...more", "Title": "The Glass Castle"},
