{"Comments": "well, i'm naturally drawn to those people who are overwhelmed by existence,<---M> by people who hurt too easily; who</---M>, for them, life seems to be almost too much: for whom the unceasing cacophony of thought and memory and idea is just too painful and all the cruelty and the violence is inconceivable and the mystery of life and love and foreverness and the past and all of it is just overwhelming to the point in which one wishes one could scream so loud that it would just make it all go away, that one co well, i'm naturally drawn to those people who are overwhelmed by existence, by people who hurt too easily; who, for them, life seems to be almost too much: for whom the unceasing cacophony of thought and memory and idea is just too painful and all the cruelty and the violence is inconceivable and the mystery of life and love and foreverness and the past and all of it is just overwhelming to the point in which one wishes one could scream so loud that it would just make it all go away, that one could exorcise all of it, that one could just somehow leave , just leave their body and leave the planet and get away from all the people and all the loss and all the memories that sit in the stomach and the chest and the throat and just get away from death and from the monotony of everyday life and also from the hysteria of those moments, those big lifechangers, and leave behind the fact that he will die and that everyone he knows or ever has known will one day be a slab of meat in a wooden box.<---F> it's too much sometimes</---F>. and fuck if you are a writer that can somehow come up with the means to tell a story, a small story even, to summarize the totality of what it means to be alive on planet earth and to live amongst and around all these people and memories and ghosts and all the potential and possibilities... well, shit. how did this young twerp do it? and it's not perfect. yeah, it is precious at times, and, yes, he doesn't always mix tone that well, there are scenes that feel heightened when they could've played straight to more powerful effect, and blahblahblah. but fuck if the flaws don't add to the whole. i'd be suspicious if it was perfect because life itself is a messy affair. and that's what this book is about. but what are you going to do? leave it? no. you stick around. and you find those people you love and you never ever ever ever ever ever ever ever ever let go. and if they're taken from you or leave you, you rail and rant against your god or your country or their country or a cold uncaring universe or nature or dumb luck and you scream and you cry and threaten suicide or murder and pull out your hair and punch cement walls and then -- then you quiet down and mend your knuckles and straighten your hair and put down the gun and stop guzzling the bourbon and you get your shit together and you move on. but you're never the same. ...more There are books that affect me and then there are books that kill me. This falls in the latter. I cried on the couch, I cried on the bus, I cried at stoplights, I cried at work.. I cried more over this book than I did on the actual September 11th. Then I became upset that this piece of fiction could invoke such melancholia. Can I use the excuse of being in shock during the actual event? That it seemed like a movie? I have no excuse. Flash back: The second half of 1994, my then boyfriend and I li There are books that affect me and then there are books that kill me. This falls in the latter. I cried on the couch, I cried on the bus, I cried at stoplights, I cried at work.. I cried more over this book than I did on the actual September 11th. Then I became upset that this piece of fiction could invoke such melancholia. Can I use the excuse of being in shock during the actual event? That it seemed like a movie? I have no excuse. Flash back: The second half of 1994, my then boyfriend and I living in the East Village, 23 years old and clueless. We were broke most of the time, not much into clubbing, so about 4 out of 7 nights we would walk. Never north.. only through the Village or SoHo and eventually our meandering would lead us to the Towers. No matter what path we\u2019d take, it was our destination. I remember many nights sitting on this ratty red paint peeled bench staring across the river at Jersey, specifically the Colgate sign, and just talking about everything. Hours sped by and we\u2019d drag our sorry asses back to the train and to our tiny apartment. I remember nights where I\u2019d hug the side of Tower One, pressing against it and lift my head as far back as I could and stare up until the glass met the sky and I\u2019d get so dizzy I\u2019d stumble back. I remember the night that we decided to marry, I remember exchanging our vows leaning against the railing staring up, always up. I haven\u2019t been to New York in 13 years, I can\u2019t even imagine a New York without those buildings. Anyway\u2026 There are 43 \u2018Incrediblys\u2019 and 63 \u2018Extremelys\u2019 within this book. Does anyone really ever use those adverbs anymore? Is anything ever extreme or incredible enough for us? My daughter has taken to using \u2018perfectly\u2019 in almost every sentence and it brings a smile to my face each time. The journey that the boy, Oskar, takes in this book is beautiful. The need to feel close to his father who died in the attacks, to spend just a bit more time with him. While Oskar is a bit unbelievable as a character, I felt that that was soon overshadowed by the images presented. I know I do this a lot in reviews, but I can\u2019t help it: Lines like \u201cBeing with him made my brain quiet. I didn\u2019t have to invent a thing.\u201d or \u201c My insides don\u2019t match up with my outsides.\u201d and \u201cIt takes a life to learn how to live.\u201d I\u2019m a sucker for a good line. When Oskar is anxious he describes it as \u2018wearing heavy boots\u2019 and when his Grandmother likes something or in a good mood she uses the term \u2018that was One Hundred Dollars\u2019 and then there\u2019s a whole mention of a \u2018Birdseed shirt\u2019 that I\u2019m still unclear about but enjoy the imagery of. But, this isn\u2019t just Oskar\u2019s journey.. this is also about Oskar\u2019s grandparents and that piece is as strong as his story, sometimes stronger. I won\u2019t go into that anymore, I\u2019ll let you read about it. Some have called this \u2018gimmicky\u2019 or \u2018precious\u2019 but I was truly moved by this story and combined with the images presented, it will stay with me for a very long time to come. As will 1994. ...more There must be something wrong with me. I\u2019m not as smart as my goodreader friends. I lack empathy. My humor is deficient. I have no compassion. And I suck at life. Of the 40 of you \u201cfriends\u201d who read this, this is how you rated it: 5-stars: 18 people 4-stars: 13 people 3-stars: 7 people 2-stars: 2 people 1-star: 0 people Something wrong with me indeed. (<---B>Or something wrong with all of you.</---B>) No. I didn\u2019t finish it. I value opportunity and freedom too much for that. I listened to it. People tell me if I had There must be something wrong with me. I\u2019m not as smart as my goodreader friends. I lack empathy. My humor is deficient. I have no compassion. And I suck at life. Of the 40 of you \u201cfriends\u201d who read this, this is how you rated it: 5-stars: 18 people 4-stars: 13 people 3-stars: 7 people 2-stars: 2 people 1-star: 0 people Something wrong with me indeed. (Or something wrong with all of you.) No. I didn\u2019t finish it. I value opportunity and freedom too much for that. I listened to it. People tell me if I had read it instead of listening to it I would have liked it more. I now tell them that I don\u2019t care. I have returned this grouping of compact discs to my local library. They are now safely out of my hands. Its twelve separate discs no longer have to worry about me yelling obscenities at them extremely loudly. They need not be concerned that they get thrown again at the passenger side door, incredibly closely. So go away <---A>Jonathan Safran Foer</---A>. Don\u2019t cry for me Argentina. It\u2019s your birthday, don\u2019t cry if you want to. Stop your sobbing. I was crying just to get you, now I'm dying cause I let you -- do what you do down on me. Or not. Okay, please don\u2019t. Seriously, I\u2019ve had enough. You are cheesy and you annoy me. I\u2019m done. So take your forced cuteness and your vegan cupcakes and go home. ...more When Thomas Pynchon invented what James Wood later named \u201chyper realism\u201d, he did literature no favors. To read Pynchon is to witness genius at its most joyless. A mind capable of inventing myriad things and compelled to record them all. But at least Pynchon showed genius. What Jonathan Safran Foer shows, however, is mere gimmickry. <+++>Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close</+++> takes readers who thought they might have seen a glimmer of greatness in Everything is Illuminated and convinces them all they real When Thomas Pynchon invented what James Wood later named \u201chyper realism\u201d, he did literature no favors. To read Pynchon is to witness genius at its most joyless. A mind capable of inventing myriad things and compelled to record them all. But at least Pynchon showed genius. What Jonathan Safran Foer shows, however, is mere gimmickry. <+++>Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close</+++> takes readers who thought they might have seen a glimmer of greatness in Everything is Illuminated and convinces them all they really saw were special effects. It\u2019s very difficult to read Foer\u2019s second novel without reflecting on his first. Everything is Illuminated began in such an original way that a reader forgave the 150 or so dull pages of less-than-compelling writing that came along throughout the rest of the book. The reader forgave the puerile reflections on the Holocaust and the manufactured confession of homosexuality. Because the book began so originally. But Foer is a one-trick pony. In Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close , he\u2019s once more co-opted a mass tragedy and made a fruit salad of it with various voices and narrative tricks. Oh sure, the book has an underlying tone of sadness \u2013 sadness, not seriousness \u2013 because, clever as he wants to be, Foer didn\u2019t dare go wholehog with a tragedy still as fresh as 9/11. But that\u2019s about the only restriction he put on his vanity. To indulge himself with a hundred irritating digressions and quips, Foer invented a child narrator. This has become more and more common among the hyper-realism set in the last 10 years. Raised by guidance counselors who told them to never stop being childish, these novelists give us hundreds of pages of \u201cexploring their inner child\u201d \u2013 all under the guise of serious artistic endeavor. But this is not serious art. This is an author who makes the easy choice every time. When he thinks he has something profound to say, he doesn\u2019t hesitate to have his nine-year-old narrator couch things in college-level language. The rest of the time, when he feels like writing about whichever page of the encyclopedia he happened to turn to that morning, he has the little professor wander off wherever he wishes, always with a literary safety net that says, \u201cI\u2019m trying to depict the world through a child\u2019s eyes!\u201d But we should ask ourselves why a novelist feels compelled to depict a mass tragedy through a child\u2019s eyes. After all, this isn\u2019t biography; Foer could have depicted the tragedy through anyone\u2019s eyes at all. Better put, when he sat down to write about the savagery of Napoleon\u2019s 1812 battle with Russia, why didn\u2019t Leo Tolstoy depict the burning of Moscow through the eyes of a nine-year-old and his nutty and mute grandfather? Probably because a nine-year-old would have limited Tolstoy\u2019s vocabulary too drastically; a nine-year-old doesn\u2019t know enough to say anything original about war. Tolstoy, in other words, was too concerned about making an original commentary to worry about being a \u201cfresh new voice!\u201d in the contemporary fiction scene. Tolstoy took a large subject and made it larger. Foer takes a large subject and makes it tiny. But sometimes, I\u2019ve learned, large things must be tiny. That\u2019s how Foer\u2019s narrator would say it. And he\u2019d be wrong, of course. But then, that\u2019s why we don\u2019t publish books written by nine-year-olds. ...more Oh, wow. A more apt title would have been Terribly Artificial and Unbearably Pretentious. This seems like the kind of thing I would have thought was a profound idea when I myself was nine, laboring on crayon illustrations to include with my manuscript into the wee hours of the morning. Maybe that means Foer succeeded. I happen to think it means his efforts were an abject failure, and that he has a great many readers and critics completely snowed. With a book like this, you either accept it as charming wis A more apt title would have been Terribly Artificial and Unbearably Pretentious. This seems like the kind of thing I would have thought was a profound idea when I myself was nine, laboring on crayon illustrations to include with my manuscript into the wee hours of the morning. Maybe that means Foer succeeded. I happen to think it means his efforts were an abject failure, and that he has a great many readers and critics completely snowed. With a book like this, you either accept it as charming wistfulness, or you don\u2019t. You either think random tabbing on pages is innovative, or you don\u2019t. You think empty pages and single phrases on other pages is a daring deconstruction of traditional publishing mores, or you don\u2019t. I don\u2019t. Foer\u2019s grieving young narrator is a ridiculous creation, the book\u2019s pagination is something a stricter editor should have vomited upon, and the situations in which Oskar finds himself are fabricated of glitter-encrusted papier-m\u00e2ch\u00e9. This story is never once believable; therefore any emotion generated is as phony as a three-dollar bill. Now don\u2019t misunderstand; I read lots of far-fetched books, so I believe genuine emotion can be achieved through stories about the tooth fairy, WMDs, sympathetic lawyers or any number of myths. But too many times in this book, people do things just to do them, and things happen just to have them happen or to give Foer scanty reason to wax poetic for pages at a time \u2013 without such bourgeoisie restrictions as paragraphs or punctuation (or sensible storytelling) muddling up the artiste\u2019s vision. Foer\u2019s stream-of-consciousness narrative reminds me of the saying about the infinite monkeys: sooner or later one of an infinite number of monkeys on an infinite number of typewriters is going to randomly type the complete works of Shakespeare. Except in Foer\u2019s case, it\u2019s as though he was one of the monkeys in the middle of infinity, a bright but underachieving chimpanzee picking nits and banging the keys petulantly with a hardened piece of fecal matter. If Foer wished to write a thick book entirely in free verse (broken up with pictures now and again so people don\u2019t become \u201cbored\u201d), then he should have had the cajones to do so, not foist this vanity project upon the public under the guise of a novel claiming to be about reaction to 9/11. This is a book for a self-important Attention-Deficit society. I think most people in today\u2019s age of texting while driving and non-stop news alerts and picture-in-picture don\u2019t actually read every word on the page anyway. They scan pages looking for the \u201cgood stuff,\u201d and that\u2019s all they remember. So therefore they\u2019re not put off by the author\u2019s interminable ramblings, his attempt to bludgeon the reader with a thick blanket of nonsensical phrases, hoping they will be distracted into thinking they come together to create some sort of profound stew greater than the sum of its silly parts. But for those of us who think each word matters, this practice is annoying subterfuge, and ultimately meaningless. ...more Extremely Precocious and Incredibly Irritating I\u2019m Oskar with a k like Liza with a Z cause Oskar with a k is krazy (also kind, klever and kultured). I\u2019m 10 going on Dalai Lama. I make jewellery (I know!) and collect butterflies who have died naturally and play a tambourine constantly. You have to wonder why no one has killed me since I must drive people insane with my maximum cuteness. Oh, and have shortwave radio conversations with my grandma over in another desirable residence in the Upper West Side. I have empathy for every living thing i I\u2019m Oskar with a k like Liza with a Z cause Oskar with a k is krazy (also kind, klever and kultured). I\u2019m 10 going on Dalai Lama. I make jewellery (I know!) and collect butterflies who have died naturally and play a tambourine constantly. You have to wonder why no one has killed me since I must drive people insane with my maximum cuteness. Oh, and have shortwave radio conversations with my grandma over in another desirable residence in the Upper West Side. I have empathy for every living thing including you. This great and terrible tragedy happened to me so nobody, not even those horrid GR people, can make fun of me, even when I\u2019m so twee a hobbit would thwow up all over the nearest elf. This is the way I speak with my Mom : \u201cMom?\u201d \u201cYes?\u201d \u201cNothing.\u201d \u201cWhat is it, baby?\u201d \u201cWell it\u2019s just that wouldn\u2019t it be great if mattresses had spaces for your arm, so that when you rolled on to your side, you could fit just right?\u201d \u201cThat would be nice.\u201d \u201cAnd good for your back, probably, because it would let your spine be straight, which I know is important.\u201d \u201cThat is important.\u201d \u201cAlso, it would make snuggling easier\u2026 And making snuggling easier is important.\u201d \u201cVery.\u201d Here, you can use this bin, or the sink, whichever. I\u2019m so kloying and keen to make everyone\u2019s lives better by befriending deaf centenarians and lonely billionaires and dragging them off on eccentric heart-twanging dead-father-related quests that Amelie from that kooky French movie Amelie would be out-cloyed and out-eccentriced at every turn & would have to throw herself out of my window wearing a birdseed dress which is an invention of mine for suicides by defenestration as the birdseed would attract birds who would carry the person aloft & thus prevent their self-destruction. Okay maybe when the birdseed was gone then the person would plummet, but I don\u2019t think that far about any of my kooky schemes, magical children who could never possibly exist don\u2019t do that. My brain is just naturally like Pixar HD. I\u2019ll invent an invisibility suit that has a camera on my back that takes video of everything behind me and plays it onto a plasma screen that I\u2019ll wear on my front, which will cover everything but my face. It\u2019ll look like I\u2019m not there at all. You may be wondering how I got to be like I am. Well, there\u2019s a long line of cutesypie narrators in my family. My grandfather, frinstance. He\u2019s tweer than me. Is that a word? It is now. He explained How I Met Your Grandmother like this: I had so much to ask her, \u201cDo you lie on your stomach and look for things under the ice? Do you like plays? Do you like it when you can hear something before you can see it?... in the middle of my youth, in the middle of Europe, in between our two villages, on the verge of losing everything, I bumped into something and was knocked to the ground\u2026 at first I thought I\u2019d walked into a tree, but then the tree became a person\u2026 I would like to explain that I am depressed about my father but as I\u2019m in this novel I don\u2019t call it that, I say I\u2019m wearing heavy boots. I would also like to say that what with all this smiling through tears, the grandma, the grandfather, the old guy who can hear again, the mom who is probably schmoozing with some guy in the next room, the sad quest to find the Blacks of New York, AND 9/11 AND let's throw Hitler into the mix, you don\u2019t have to look any further for a dictionary definition of emotional blackmail. ...more Today while tutoring, I've met with one student right at 1 and another at 4. In between those times, I read Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close. Perhaps that was not the smartest thing to do... Sometimes I find the book so funny that I laugh out loud. Which is fine if I had a quiet laugh, but I don't. And I tutor in a common meeting space which is a center room with offices surrounding it. Clearly, everyone in the office knew I was getting paid to laugh at what I was reading. I felt bad; if I was Today while tutoring, I've met with one student right at 1 and another at 4. In between those times, I read Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close. Perhaps that was not the smartest thing to do... Sometimes I find the book so funny that I laugh out loud. Which is fine if I had a quiet laugh, but I don't. And I tutor in a common meeting space which is a center room with offices surrounding it. Clearly, everyone in the office knew I was getting paid to laugh at what I was reading. I felt bad; if I was working, I wouldn't want to hear someone who was getting paid to read laughing. In my defense, at least everyone could see that writing matters to me and I appreciate quality literature, which further proves my already-established qualifications as a tutor. But then I got to the climax of the book, and I was moved by how the climax was written because it felt so \"real\" to me, because it captured how I feel and think (if those things could be replicated in language other than poetry), and I loved the characters as I love my families, and I loved the twist in the plot and how it came together in a way I didn't think it would come together because I was being skeptical and I thought it would be more trite, so I'm reading in the middle of this common room but I wouldn't call it reading as much as I would call it immersing myself into the novel when I start crying. Once the tears got in the way of my reading, I looked away from the page to wipe them, and realized I wasn't at home. I was in the Student-Athletics Department. I was tutoring. I had to pull my shit together. What I love is that a book could do that to me. That it could inspire me--to write, to live, to not be afraid, to not be embarrassed when I bawl at work. I love this book so much I'm going to buy a copy of it. I would marry it if I wasn't married to FD. I want to put Kiedrowski's frosting on it and eat it. I love the multi-genre-ness of it. It's brave and out-there and absolutely gorgeous. I still have one chapter left. Once I started crying, I thought maybe I should wait until I was home to finish it--just in case I need to sob for a couple of minutes or hours. It's moments like these that make me happy to be a reader, and even more so a writer... ~ It's almost 9 p.m., and I finished the book. I didn't cry. I didn't sob. I just finished it while BBQ-ing tonight's dinner (Chicken, roasted potatoes, and broccoli), ate dinner while watching the newest Deadliest Catch, cleaned-up, and talked to Pops. What's funny is, though, all the while I was doing this business, I was thinking about this book. And I have a feeling I'm going to think about this book for a long while. Like when I see a great film that moves me, it sticks with me, such as Dancer in the Dark. And when I read something so good, like Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close, I believe in God more than any other time in my life. Because without God how could such a great book come into existence? Or such a great author who is able to write such a great book? And then such a great mind? And the food such a great mind eats? And the air such a great mind breathes? (You probably can see where this is going.) I can't review this book like other books. Mostly because I'm too emotional right now. But I can say if you read this blog, you should this book, if you haven't already. And before I give my HK rating, a fellow McGuire/Facebook buddy said about Foer's book, \"it's seriously chronic. i already bought Everything is Illuminated.\" Chronic, people! Dr. Dre and Snoop would be up on this shit! C'mon! For the first time ever and maybe only time ever...5 Hello Kittys. ...more Extremely Loud and Incredbily Close: Jonathan Foer's novel of love, loss, and memory There are events that leave an indelible stamp on us for a great portion of our lives. This happens from generation to generation. Ask those living at the time of the attack on Pearl Harbor where they were and what they were doing, they will be able to tell you the answer. Similarly, ask me where I was when I heard John F. Kennedy was shot, I can tell you. Ask what I was doing when the attacks of 9/11 occurred, I c Extremely Loud and Incredbily Close: Jonathan Foer's novel of love, loss, and memory There are events that leave an indelible stamp on us for a great portion of our lives. This happens from generation to generation. Ask those living at the time of the attack on Pearl Harbor where they were and what they were doing, they will be able to tell you the answer. Similarly, ask me where I was when I heard John F. Kennedy was shot, I can tell you. Ask what I was doing when the attacks of 9/11 occurred, I can tell you. I had arrived at work at the District Attorney's Office. My chief side kick with whom I was working prep for a trial, ran into the grand jury room and said turn on the television. I did. What I saw was something I could not accept. Jonathan Foer goes far past the point of remembrance. Foer drops you into the shoes of 8 year old <---C>Oskar Schell</---C>. For him, 9/11 is not simply an event which he will remember for its historical significance. It is an event he lives daily because he lost his father that day. And the event is brought home to him, for he has a cell phone with his father's messages sent from the twin towers that day. This is a secret he keeps from his mother, for he wants to protect her from the pain of those messages. It is an incredible burden for a child to bear. Oskar is left with a gamut of guilt and fears, resulting in a state of vicarious traumatic response to his father's death. His grief is all the more palpable because he is extremely gifted and incredibly cursed with an intelligence far more gifted than children his age. Oskar shared a bond with his father, who fostered that intelligence, by devoting great attention on his son, gently lulling him to sleep at nights by reading him the New York Times and circling the errors they found in red ink. His father challenged Oskar's intelligence by setting up questions for Oskar to solve, leaving clues amounting to a trail of breadcrumbs leading him to a solution of the problems he designed for him. Or did he? Did his father actually do this? Or is this something which Oskar has perceived in his mind alone? The action of this novel occurs a year after the fall of the Towers. Oskar is still dealing with the traumatization of his father's loss. In an effort to keep the memory of his father close, Oskar frequently hides in his father's closet where the scent of his father's shaving still lingers in his mind, if only in his mind. A bundle of memories and his fears cripple Oskar in his dealings with others, especially his schoolmates, whom are not affected by the fall of the Towers as Oskar is. Nor does Oskar perceive his mother to be as deeply affected by the loss of his father. She has a new friend, Ron, who becomes a frequent visitor to the apartment. Oskar hears their laughter in the living room, as he hides in his father's closet. At one point, typical of a child, he tells his mother he wishes it had been her who died that day. It is something a child would say, intentionally hurting the remaining parent, then immediately struck with the hurt he inflicted on his mother whom he loved without question. There are strong clues that while Oskar is undoubtedly a prodigy of intelligence far beyond his years, that Oskar just might suffer from more than childhood fears. Is it that Oskar is afflicted by Asperger's Syndrome? A look into the Diagnostic Services Manual--I believe we're in the fifth edition of that psychological cookbook, now, reveals that this is a distinct possibility. Oskar is enveloped in a net of pattern and design, a characteristic shared by children with this diagnosis. He is awkward in his social interactions. Nor does he seem to grasp the results of his actions in social settings. Play on words which Oskar finds hilarious are lost and misunderstood by those around him. Oskar's behavior in filling daybooks with events that have happened to him, including other tragic events occurring before and after 9/11 take on a ritualistic quality, echoing some of the characteristics shared by those diagnosed with Asperger's, which is considered a sub diagnosis of autism. It is a matter of degree, not an exclusion from that diagnosis. That Oskar is unaware of the consequences of his behavior on his teacher and his fellow students is clear. In graphic detail, he explains the results of the bombing of Hiroshima, sharing a video interview with a survivor of the first use of an atomic bomb against a civilian population. That Osckar's last name is Schell is a clever device used to great benefit by Foer. For Oskar is a veritable Chambered Nautilus consisting of impenetrable chambers of secrets revealed only by gently bisecting the shell of a nautilus. Oskar's mother carries her son to be counseled by Doctor Fein, who is anything but fine in his ability to reach Oskar and release him from all the fears held within him, brought about from his father's death. It is only through Oskar's discovery of one last mystery he believes was left him by his father to solve, that Oskar begins to live outside himself and become engaged with people outside his immediate family that just might allow him to move forward from the prison of the loss of his father. Quite by accident, Oskar spies a blue vase on the top shelf of his father's closet. Stacking his works of Shakespeare in his father's closet, Oskar stretches to reach the vase, only to tip it off the shelf, shattering it on the floor of the closet. It contains a key, with an envelope. Written on the envelope is the word \"Black\" written in red ink. Oskar determines that the answer to his father's last mystery is the key and someone named Black. Although the number of locks in New York City is mind shattering, Oskar, a child of the internet, decides to track down all the Blacks in New York City in an effort to find the secret of what the key opens. It is this journey, if anything, that will allow Oskar to move beyond the death of his father and live his own life. Foer, in a display of brilliance, introduces us to Oskar's grandmother and the grandfather, Oskar never knew. Thomas Schell, for whom Oskar's father was named, also is trapped within the memories of another terrible incident in Human history, the firebombing of Dresden. The elder Thomas, although once capable of speech, can no longer speak a word, but communicates by writing in blank day books. He disappeared before the birth of Oskar's father. We learn of the elder Thomas's history through his letters to his unborn child and through his life with Oskar's grandmother, who lives in an apartment building across the street from Oskar. Oskar and his grandmother communicate by walkie talkies at all times of the day and night. It is through the writings of the elder Thomas Schell that we experience first hand the horror of living through one of the great acts of inhumanity against man--the fire bombing of Dresden during World War II by the Royal Airforce and the United States 8th Airforce from February 13-15th, 1945. Those events leave Thomas Schell a man forever changed. The beauty of Foer's novel is the answer he provides in the resolution of Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close. We recover from the tragedies of our lives through the bonds we share with others. This is the ultimate beauty of life. While some critics, and some readers, find Foer's novel, manipulative and cloyingly sweet, I find it an affirmation of life. To paraphrase Faulkner's Nobel Acceptance Speech, it is through reaching out to others that not only are we able to endure, it is the way we prevail. This is a solid 6 Stars literary masterpiece. If it makes you cry, take joy for the fact Foer reminds us we are human, not only capable of acts of inhumanity, but also capable of acts of great love and forgiveness. ...more I read the first chapter and stopped. I am pissed off. I have rarely felt so manipulated as a reader in my life, and I think the manipulation is more about the way it is written than what it is written about, although that is, in itself, fairly manipulative. If this is how Foer usually writes, I want no part of him or his work. Still, if this was a short story and I reached the point where the Dad is about to talk to his son before the towers collapse, I would be excited by the cleverness of the I read the first chapter and stopped. I am pissed off. I have rarely felt so manipulated as a reader in my life, and I think the manipulation is more about the way it is written than what it is written about, although that is, in itself, fairly manipulative. If this is how Foer usually writes, I want no part of him or his work. Still, if this was a short story and I reached the point where the Dad is about to talk to his son before the towers collapse, I would be excited by the cleverness of the moment, would look forward to the conversation, and be pleased in anticipation of the genuine anguish that must be coming. But it's not a short story. It's the first chapter in what is a pretty long book, and I imagine all manner of excruciating crapness is to come. Couple that with a first person narrative in the voice of a \"precocious\" kid -- so precocious, in fact, that he sounds like a thirty-something man trapped in a kid's body rather than a genuinely precocious kid (I often suspect, when these impossibly precocious characters appear, that the author wants to write as a child but realizes he isn't good enough, so he makes them precocious so he can just write as themselves at their least disciplined and pretend it is a child) -- and I want to tear my eyeballs out after only twenty some-odd pages. Even worse, I didn't know this was about the WTC attack until I got this to the cash register. I just saw it on sale, knew it had good buzz, liked the cover and thought, \"What the hell?!\" I need to reexamine my impulse buying, apparently, because I would not have bought this book if I'd known what it was about before I did. I think, too, that if I keep reading this book it is going to be lucky to get one star, so it's probably best to leave it where it is for now: on my to-read shelf, buried under that copy of Shogun that's been there for a decade. ...more This book gives me heavy boots. On the one hand, Foer writes an interesting story. An eight year-old boy Oskar, two years after his father\u2019s death in the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center, embarks on a scavenger hunt, searching for clues to a key his father left behind, a key that he believes opens a mysterious lock somewhere in New York City. Oskar is precocious to say the least. I thought several times that he reminds me a bit of Holden Caulfield , albeit younger and somewhat less pess This book gives me heavy boots. On the one hand, Foer writes an interesting story. An eight year-old boy Oskar, two years after his father\u2019s death in the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center, embarks on a scavenger hunt, searching for clues to a key his father left behind, a key that he believes opens a mysterious lock somewhere in New York City. Oskar is precocious to say the least. I thought several times that he reminds me a bit of Holden Caulfield , albeit younger and somewhat less pessimistic. Intertwined with Oskar\u2019s account are the stories of his grandparents who are survivors of the bombings of Dresden, Germany during World War II. The grandparents relate their own experiences of loss and grief through letters and journal entries that shed light on the national tragedy they lived through two generations earlier. One of the problems I have with this book (i.e. the other hand) is that Foer\u2019s heavy use of typographical gimmicks is distracting and unnecessary. Some of Oskar\u2019s discoveries during his scavenger hunt occur somewhat too conveniently. And are we really supposed to feel bad for Oskar\u2019s grandfather for being so \u201cbroken\u201d over losing the love of his life? Because I don\u2019t. It\u2019s been 58 years, guy\u2014get over it. You\u2019re not tragic and pitiable, you\u2019re a fucking loser for leaving your family. And if there\u2019s one thing I can\u2019t wrap my head around, it\u2019s the timing surrounding the disappearance of Oskar\u2019s friend Mr. Black. Although it doesn\u2019t weigh heavily on the plot of the novel, small details like this bother me. On p. 285, the first sentence reads, \u201cThe day after the renter and I dug up Dad\u2019s grave, I went to Mr. Black\u2019s apartment.\u201d We know that when Oskar does go to Mr. Black\u2019s apartment, he retrieves a biograph card from Mr. Black\u2019s index. We also know that he is wearing this biograph card on his person during his meeting with William Black (a different Black) later that day (p. 295). How, then, is it possible that directly before the grave digging operation, Oskar is able to relate to his grandfather (the \u201crenter\u201d) the details of what he learned in his meeting with William Black (p. 302) if the grave digging operation itself is supposed to have happened the day before retrieving the biograph card ?? If someone could explain that last part for me, I\u2019d greatly appreciate it. In the meantime, here\u2019s an overall timeline I made to help myself better understand the interweaving plot lines: 1921 \u2013 letter written by prisoner of Turkish labor camp 1936 \u2013 prisoner\u2019s letter received by Oskar\u2019s grandmother (who must have been about 6 years old and therefore born around 1930) 1943 \u2013 after spending 7 years collecting letters for handwriting samples, Oskar\u2019s grandmother collects a letter from Thomas Schell who is seeing her sister 1945 \u2013 Dresden firebombings (indisputable), Anna dies 1950 \u2013 Oskar\u2019s grandmother (~20 years old) moves to USA and meets a mute Thomas Schell; this date is based on the grandmother\u2019s declaration that \u201c7 years had passed\u201d which I took to assume since obtaining Thomas\u2019s handwriting sample in 1943, as it\u2019s the only thing that makes sense to me. 1963 \u2013 Thomas Schell leaves Oskar\u2019s grandmother 1964 \u2013 Oskar\u2019s father is born 1995 \u2013 Oskar is born 2001 \u2013 Oskar\u2019s father dies (indisputable), Thomas Schell returns 2003 \u2013 present day (Oskar discovers key, learns mystery of its origin, digs up his father\u2019s grave, and Oskar\u2019s grandparents move to the airport). ...more This was horrible. The writing was horrible. The book jumped around and around and was so hard to follow. It was like reading something written by someone who was half squirrel and half crack head. Instead of creating colorful and deep characters using words, he used punctuation. The grandfather spoke using an abundance of useless commas, the grandmother used lots of periods and Mr. Black spoke in sentences using only exclamation points. I was thankful no spoke by asking only questions. If I wou This was horrible. The writing was horrible. The book jumped around and around and was so hard to follow. It was like reading something written by someone who was half squirrel and half crack head. Instead of creating colorful and deep characters using words, he used punctuation. The grandfather spoke using an abundance of useless commas, the grandmother used lots of periods and Mr. Black spoke in sentences using only exclamation points. I was thankful no spoke by asking only questions. If I would have seen a page full of question marks I think I might have thrown the book across the room! I found Oskar to be the only unique and real character in the book, but after awhile he even started to annoy me. His little quirks were too over the top, like the author was trying to compensate and distract the reader from the nonexistent plot. A boy loses his father and finds a key in an envelope with the name \"Black\" on it. We go through pages and pages of meeting lots of people with the name \"Black\" only to find out the key had nothing to do with his dad in the first place. He has weird grandparents who like to write him letters about their sex life and who really didn't add anything to the plot of the story that I could tell. Then he digs up his father's empty coffin and fills it with letters, the end. (Seriously?????) I found the subject matter heart breaking, and did tear up at times, but it's hard not to tear up when anyone talks about that horrible day. I hated the pictures the most. The book had pages of meaningless pictures. But one picture stood out from the rest and made me cringe. He filled over a dozen pages with pictures of someone's loved one falling to their death from one of the burning towers of 9/11. I am outraged by this! Horrible!!!!!! ...more Nine year old Oskar Schell finds a key among his dead father's things and embarks on a quest to find the lock it fits. Will Oskar Schell's quest give him the answers he's looking for? Quite some time ago, I watched a fragment of the movie based on this book on a rainy day before deciding I wanted to read the book. Now that I've read it, I'm not sure it was the right choice. Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close is the story of Oskar Schell, a nine year old possible genius with issues whose father di Nine year old Oskar Schell finds a key among his dead father's things and embarks on a quest to find the lock it fits. Will Oskar Schell's quest give him the answers he's looking for? Quite some time ago, I watched a fragment of the movie based on this book on a rainy day before deciding I wanted to read the book. Now that I've read it, I'm not sure it was the right choice. Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close is the story of Oskar Schell, a nine year old possible genius with issues whose father died in the World Trade Center collapse. After discovering a mysterious key, he wanders New York's five boroughs, meeting people and drawing closer to the end of his quest. I loved the Oskar Schell character, a smart boy who has trouble fitting in, and I loved the idea of a boy on quest. Oskar's relationship with his deceased father was very well done, as was his anger with his mother. However, I found the book to be on the gimmicky side with all the photographs and typographical razzmatazz. Also, I found the elder Thomas Schell to be an unsympathetic character. He ran out on his family. Why is Foer so bent on making us feel sorry for him? As much as I loved the idea of a nine year old attempting to solve the mysteries behind his father's death, I found the execution far=fetched, but not as far-fetched as the ending. The ending denied the book an entire star for me. Even so, Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close was not without its charm. It was an engaging read and had some poignant moments. Three out of five stars. ...more Maybe it goes without saying that we write differently in letters than we do in email or text. Something about putting pen to paper makes a handwritten letter more intimate and less imposing than electronic media. We take off the tin-foil hat. Our mistakes are not made invisible by a backspace key, but crossed out with our own hand. We reveal ourselves. And letters to people we love are that much more intimate and revealing, even sentimental. We create something, a product, that you can hold in Maybe it goes without saying that we write differently in letters than we do in email or text. Something about putting pen to paper makes a handwritten letter more intimate and less imposing than electronic media. We take off the tin-foil hat. Our mistakes are not made invisible by a backspace key, but crossed out with our own hand. We reveal ourselves. And letters to people we love are that much more intimate and revealing, even sentimental. We create something, a product, that you can hold in your hand, and then send it off, like a little piece of ourselves. Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close is Jonathan Safran Foer\u2019s love letter to New York City. I\u2019ve seen some readers complain that its sentimentality is manipulative, and even though I can imagine reading the book that way, I can\u2019t understand it. I think this book is one of the most beautiful explorations of love, grief, and humanity that I\u2019ve ever experienced. It\u2019s been years since I last read it, and I wanted to read it again before reviewing, but I\u2019m not really at an emotional place where I could take it right now. What is love without death? And sometimes both are too harsh to look in the face. I have to make a nothing place for them. But I\u2019ve had this review percolating in my brain, and I felt like I needed to share it, even though it\u2019s only impressions. Traditional wedding vows summarize pretty economically that classic feeling of being in love. I will love you in sickness and health, for richer or poorer, till death do us part. It\u2019s that feeling of \u201cI loved you before I knew you, and I will love you after we\u2019re dust.\u201d Foer does something similar here. He\u2019s saying to the City, \u201cI loved you as a child. I love you as an old man, as an old woman. I loved you when I only had a key to your secrets, but didn\u2019t know what door it belonged to. I love you in the health of family and in the sickness of grief.\u201d And somehow, for right or wrong, it is more meaningful to be reminded of love when we are at our most worthless and broken. This love letter takes place just after the September 11th attacks on the World Trade Center, and it gives me the feeling of Foer sewing up the wounds of the city. I lived in New York a couple of years before the September 11th attack, and I hated the city. When the attacks happened, I lived in one of the religiously fanatical far-away places where a lot of people felt, secretly or openly, that New York deserved to have a symbol of its decadence cut down. I lived in Oregon. People would say that \u201cwe\u201d brought this upon ourselves, but, despite my aversion to New York City, that always offended me. New York is not \u201cwe\u201d to anyone in Oregon. \u201cWe\u201d is Rainie Falls and Mount Pisgah and Voodoo Doughnuts and Dutch Bros and Rice Hill. \u201cWe\u201d is the Caveman statue and Powell\u2019s and the stupid Enchanted Forest. The World Trade Center is just as foreign to \u201cus\u201d as Afghanistan or Nicaragua, Dresden or Hiroshima. Not only do I not believe that anyone, English speaking or not, brings that kind of devastation upon themselves, I also do not believe that it is \u201cour\u201d right to speak to the justice of that kind of event. I love where I live, and I feel that same kind of love and care in Foer talking about where he lives. I think it is beautiful. I think that it is not possible for a place that could be so beloved, no matter how much I dislike it myself, to have deserved bombing. I would say the same about Afghanistan, Nicaragua, Dresden, and Hiroshima. On a lighter and more bitchy note, Nicole Krauss is married to Foer, and her book The History of Love is very, very similar to Extremely Loud . I think that if you\u2019ve read one of those, you can\u2019t really like the other, unfortunately. They are both, to some extent, about the injustices of growing up, but Krauss takes the tone of overcoming adversity, where I think Foer takes the tone of reconciliation and healing. Maybe they both have all of those elements. I\u2019m one thumb up, one thumb down on History of Love , but words cannot tell you how much I love Extremely Loud . Some of the similarities are in the family phrasings, some are in the plots. You can see how they are very different writers who suffer from the disadvantage of living in the same house with another great writer. It\u2019s stressful. Extremely Loud is American folklore. It is regional, but can\u2019t be held responsible for it. Not that regionalism is necessarily a turn-off, but we want to read about ourselves. Cultures that are familiar but foreign can be suspicious. At the same time, this story does bring me into the culture that was devastated by 9/11. I was not the target of the 9/11 attacks, just like Oskar, the protagonist of this book, was not. But also, we both were. We both are Americans, despite our foreignness. It is one of those muddles that political boundaries make out of culture. We are foreigners and family at the same time. It\u2019s confusing and figurative and sentimental. In fact, all of this, everything in this book, is more figurative and sentimental than many readers care for, but what do you expect from a love letter? ...more I hate to keep pointing out to everyone that I listened to the audio version of this or that book, as it gets repetitive after awhile, and for the most part, it is usually irrelevant. In this case, though, it seems to have made a difference. When I finished Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close, I went online to read some reviews. I was surprised by what I read. It seemed that just about everyone who gave their opinion on this book, whether positive or negative, commented on Foer's \"experimental\" I hate to keep pointing out to everyone that I listened to the audio version of this or that book, as it gets repetitive after awhile, and for the most part, it is usually irrelevant. In this case, though, it seems to have made a difference. When I finished Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close, I went online to read some reviews. I was surprised by what I read. It seemed that just about everyone who gave their opinion on this book, whether positive or negative, commented on Foer's \"experimental\" writing style. Apparently, Foer would at times not use proper punctuation, or would clump words on top of each other so that they appeared to look like scribbles, or would insert photographs, or even leave several pages blank. I hate to look like I'm trying to be cute by using the phrase which appeared so often in the book, but my reaction to this was exactly that: What the.... ? There is no evidence of any of these experimental writing tactics in the audio version whatsoever. I mean, there is mention of a memoir having nothing but blank pages, but that is part of the story itself... there was no sense of actual blank pages within Foer's book. There was no sense of words piling up on each other, either. And, clearly, there were no pictures. I'm not sure how I would have felt about the book with all of the above thrown in. Some seemed to have found it distracting, and perhaps I'd have felt the same. Without them, though, you are left with nothing but the story itself, pure and uncluttered, and which I found to be beautifully written. The narration by the various actors was also superbly done. Sometimes I get annoyed by the fact that my current situation limits me to audiobooks, as I miss having a real book in my hand and reading the words on a page in my own voice with my own interpretation. And then I come across a book like this one, and I am glad. Some books, it seems, are even better read aloud. ...more Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close is extremely sad and incredibly stylish. For a thin plot, Foer was able to extend it by shifting narratives, delightful monologues, empty pages, pages with one liners, pages with black and white pictures, pages with colored pictures, pages with scribbled names, pages that look like a manuscript with editor's proofreading symbols and by several back stories (Hiroshima bombing, Dresden bombing, etc). That\u2019s a delicate style that I think only gifted writers can p Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close is extremely sad and incredibly stylish. For a thin plot, Foer was able to extend it by shifting narratives, delightful monologues, empty pages, pages with one liners, pages with black and white pictures, pages with colored pictures, pages with scribbled names, pages that look like a manuscript with editor's proofreading symbols and by several back stories (Hiroshima bombing, Dresden bombing, etc). That\u2019s a delicate style that I think only gifted writers can pull away with. The story is simple: about a boy whose father died in 9/11 and a couple of years after, he found a mysterious key under a flower vase inside his father's dresser. The search led him to find out more stories about his father. The search led him to the answers to his questions, meet many interesting people, find a way to heal his wounds and move on with his life. The narrator is Oskar Schell, a 9-y/o son of the 9/11 victim. Oskar is intellectually curious, sensitive, pacifist, musically-inclined, earnest. I am not sure if that is really how an American 9-y/o thinks, feels and acts. When I was at that age, I had a classmate who died of drowning while she and her family were having a picnic aboard a boat on a Black Saturday. I got sad because that classmate of mine was close to me but I did not have those deep and mind-blowing thoughts that Foer made for Oskar. I also thought that his thinking is sometimes vague, too mature and not childish at all. There were times I thought that he was like Oskar Matzerath , the man-child (or the man who decided not to grow up) in Gunter Grass\u2019 opus, The Thin Drum minus of course the glass-shattering shrieks. Instead, the Oskar in this novel cries in every opportunity and says \u201cI love you\u201d as his second language like a big star in an afternoon television series. When he cries and says that he loves you, that\u2019s heart shattering and you\u2019ll say that Foer is a genius and this book should have a movie. Yes, there is an on-going production of this and you will see the output on December 25, 2011 at your favorite U.S. theaters : Guaranteed to make you cry especially if you are a male and have a quirky relationship with your father or with your son. In my opinion, its melodrama borders between manipulative and sincere. In other words, it almost felt like it uses 9/11 to squirt tears from its readers and almost felt like it was just disrespectfully cashing out sympathy for the victims at the expense of the victims\u2019 families and friends. However, I think that reading this in 2011 and not in 2005 when the book was first published is better because many of the families and friends of those who perished have already moved on with their lives. That despite the pain and much more the good memories that their loved ones left behind with them. Those will never ever go away. Guaranteed to blow you away especially if you are used to reading linear narrative and straightforward and precise storytelling. I thought that the back stories were all pieces of thoughts that the boy or the father had so I just read them on strides. I did not know that those will be part of the grand scheme in the end. These little things could catch you unguarded and I thought that it was cleverly done: to turn a simple predictable a bit hallow story into an unbelievably and surprisingly memorable read. Unlike the funky style of Jennifer Egan in A Visit From a Goon Squad or the loaded style of Samantha Sotto\u2019s Before Ever After , Foer\u2019s alternating milieus and time periods are not confusing at all and they seem appropriate given the impact, sadness and confusion brought about by 9/11. My favorite part is when the father said in the telephone: \"Are you there? Are you there?\" instead of saying \"Is anyone there? Is anyone there?\" For me this means that the father was hoping that his son was there because that would give him peace of mind. A father always think of his child's life or safety first before his own. My first time to read a Foer and I am just blown away. ...more I picked this book up two days ago to read the first page (I personally think you can tell a lot about a book from the first page) and was hooked. I'm in the middle of another book, which is a good book, but the jarring nature of the prose reeled me in. The first chapter is called, \"What the?\" which is exactly what I was thinking. I was instantly reminded of another great book, The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Nighttime, where you actually experience the book as well as read it. While I wo I picked this book up two days ago to read the first page (I personally think you can tell a lot about a book from the first page) and was hooked. I'm in the middle of another book, which is a good book, but the jarring nature of the prose reeled me in. The first chapter is called, \"What the?\" which is exactly what I was thinking. I was instantly reminded of another great book, The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Nighttime, where you actually experience the book as well as read it. While I wouldn't want every book to be written like that, because it's a bit like riding a roller coaster in the dark with strobe lights, it sure is fun every once in a while. Jonathan Safran Foer, the author, writes the tale of a nine year old boy named Oskar Schell, whose father was in the World Trade Center when the planes flew into them on September 11th. I think its fair to say that the boy becomes extremely troubled after his father's death, but with the unconventional childhood he had, it didn't take much to push him over the edge. His father was an atheist and Oskar wasn't raised to believe in an afterlife or heaven or that people have spirits. When no body is recovered, his mother buries an empty coffin and she and Oskar have this conversation: \"It's just an empty box.\" \"It's more than an empty box.\" \"Why would I want to spend eternity next to an empty box?\" Mom said, \"His spirit is there,\" and that made me really angry. I told her, \"Dad didn't have a spirit! He had cells!\" \"His memory is there.\" \"His memory is there,\" I said, pointing at my head. \"Dad had a spirit,\" she said, like she was rewinding a bit in our conversation. I told her, \"He had cells, and now they're on rooftops, and in the river, and in the lungs of millions of people around New York, who breathe him every time they speak!\" The book also tells the story of Oskar's paternal grandparents. The narration changes when both tell their own story. When his grandmother writes, there are no paragraphs and no quotations marks. Lots of odd spacing and most sentences get their own line. She's kind of crazy herself which you know by how she reacts when watching Oskar in his school's play of Hamlet and her conversations with Oskar. Oskar's grandfather...well...that's when you really see crazy. The author uses the most license with him and parts of the book are downright bizarre. Like the eight pages with nothing on them. Or when he starts to write smaller and smaller so that two entire pages are just dark black scribbles because some many words are on top of themselves. It's more than just tricks on the page, however. The story is really about grief and how Oskar chooses to grieve for his father and how Oskar's grandparents grieved after losing much of what they loved when their city of Dresden was bombed in World War II. When Oskar finds a key in an envelope with the word \"Black\" written on it inside a vase in his parent's bedroom, he sets out to discover what it unlocks. He goes about this by finding every person with the last name of \"Black\" in the five boroughs of New York City and spends almost a year going out on the weekends to ask Aaron, Abel, Amber etc. if they know anything about the key. A few interesting characters and stories get told through this storyline, but the real beauty of this book is how it made me remember and react to the horror of 9/11 again. You kind of forget....with the War on Terror, and the Iraq War and all of the stories that have happened during the last six years how horrible it was to watch those burning buildings go down on live TV. The last 14 pages of the book are pictures Oskar got off of a Portuguese web site that had a picture of a man who had jumped from the building. He put them in reverse order and you see this body in the air going up. The wish of a nine year old boy. This book is exactly what its title says it is. Extremely and incredibly written. It's different, but I sure liked it. ...more One of the most beautifully written and impactful stories ive read. Perhaps I'm just stupid, but I don't get this book, nor am I really crazy about it. It's a little too hip for me, in the sense that I don't think anybody really gets what the hell Foer is trying to say, but because it's obscure everyone likes it. Or maybe I'm just looking too much into the book. But I found myself having to read and re-read pages over and over again to make sense of it all. It doesn't do it for me, but I might try to get through it one last time, mainly because I feel very guilty Perhaps I'm just stupid, but I don't get this book, nor am I really crazy about it. It's a little too hip for me, in the sense that I don't think anybody really gets what the hell Foer is trying to say, but because it's obscure everyone likes it. Or maybe I'm just looking too much into the book. But I found myself having to read and re-read pages over and over again to make sense of it all. It doesn't do it for me, but I might try to get through it one last time, mainly because I feel very guilty if I don't finish a book, despite how bad as I think it is. ...more I finished this book this morning, determined to complete it before I did anything else today. I wanted it to just be over. I read the last 41 pages & then looked at the additional 15 unnumbered pages of pictures at the end, and now I sit here rather annoyed. I don't know how to communicate my disappointed sighs via text. [image error] I really wanted to love this book. It was given to me by a friend who loved it - someone whose opinion I trust. I didn't get around to reading it for a long ti I finished this book this morning, determined to complete it before I did anything else today. I wanted it to just be over. I read the last 41 pages & then looked at the additional 15 unnumbered pages of pictures at the end, and now I sit here rather annoyed. I don't know how to communicate my disappointed sighs via text. [image error] I really wanted to love this book. It was given to me by a friend who loved it - someone whose opinion I trust. I didn't get around to reading it for a long time though, and now that I have, it is my sad duty to report that I didn't like it at all. This should have been a moving story about grief, a little boy searching to find out why his father died, and learning to let him go. But it wasn't anything. There was no plot, no point, and I just didn't get it. There was exactly three sections of this book that made me feel something other than confusion and frustration. These three sections probably add up to about 10 pages, all together. And then one of them was a lie, so back to the confusion and frustration on that one. This book was so damn gimmicky. I guess a lot of people would call that \"style\" or \"technique\" or something, but to me, it was just \"LOOK AT ME! I'M DIFFERENT!\" stage dressing that added nothing but irritation to the experience of reading this for me. I have a very low tolerance for gimmicks in books, and I feel that if an author is going to use anything at all other than words to tell his story, it had better fit and make sense, and add something. Nothing was added to the story or the experience for most of this stuff. Most of it was completely random - it literally could have been picked by the close your eyes and point method out of a table full of photos at an oddities shop. Or maybe this explains it: Apparently, these are the pictures that are in Oskar's \"Stuff That Happened To Me\" book. Please, tell me, how did a picture of two turtles mating happen to him? A photo of a man on the ground during or after a tennis match? Two early Homo Sapiens walking together? When was he an astronaut? Or any of these: \"a shark attacking a girl, someone walking on a tightrope between the Twin Towers, that actress getting a blowjob from her normal boyfriend, a soldier getting his head cut off in Iraq, the place on the wall where a famous stolen painting used to hang\". These things didn't happen to him, and I can't even see how they are even remotely related to him or anything he experienced - except perhaps in a symbolic or metaphorical way. But that doesn't fit. Oskar is extremely literal. He doesn't understand figures of speech, so I find it very difficult to think he'd have a scrapbook called \"Stuff That Happened To Me\" filled with symbolic or metaphorical pictures representing his feelings. If that's the case, why not just call it \"Pictures Representing My Feelings\"? Oskar annoyed the hell out of me from the very beginning, and I just could not bring myself to like or identify with him. I tried. I mean, he's a little boy who thinks about things in a specific and ordered way, who needs stability, and his father dying pulled the rug out from under him. I tried. I just couldn't. I couldn't like this kid who can't see that his mother is actually grieving for her husband but notices things like the subway lines in New York only being above ground in \"poor neighborhoods\". I couldn't like this fucking selfish kid who tells his mother that he wishes he had a choice which parent died, who can't comprehend his mother or his grandmother having a life outside of him, who actually thinks things like \"Why is she not waiting at the door? I'm the only thing that matters to her\" about his grandmother. Oh, but Oskar is such a charmer, you know, when he asks random women if he can kiss them, and tells them they are \"incredibly beautiful\". No, he means it. INCREDIBLY. BEAUTIFUL. All of them. He's the creepy fucking old man who stands too close on a train... just trapped in a 9 year old body. And yet people just go with it. I know that Oskar's mom called around and told the people named Black that he'd be coming, but that wasn't until after he'd been around to a few, and still random people that he meets, all the people named Black that stalks tracks down on his investigation, they just go along with it, like it's not weird at all. Even if they were warned, I seriously doubt that every person would \"play along\". They act like they know that \"heavy boots\" means he's depressed rather than literally thinking that his shoes weigh a lot. They don't say \"I don't kiss 9 year old boys\" they say \"It wouldn't be a good idea.\" Speaking of which... Nobody EVER says what they mean in this book. Oskar says inappropriately honest things because he's literal and a child and probably has Asperger's, but when it comes to important things to him - his father - he shuts down. Incommunicado. Which is a huge theme in this book. Nobody talks to each other. Except of course for the perfect father-son relationship that Thomas/Oskar have. Seriously, this was, I think for me, the most frustrating aspect of this book. It made me want to throw the damn thing across the room so many times. SO. MANY. TIMES. I hate, HATE, stupid people who suffer and cause other people to suffer needlessly because they are incapable of opening their fucking mouth, or getting a damn pen, or hiring a singing clown telegram, or a skywriter or communicating in SOME WAY with another person about their needs or fears or thoughts or... anything. Instead, these geniuses just close down, check out, and take ZERO responsibility for their own life, shirk EVERY decision and just refuse. Refuse what? Everything. Just fucking... GAH! Half of this story is about Oskar's Grandma and Grandpa, and the shit's so convoluted and goddamn stupid that at the end I seriously could not believe that paper was wasted on this. Ugh. You know, I was going to give you the Cliff's Notes version of the stupidity that is Oskar's Grandparents' relationship, but I actually can't bring myself to type it all out. So I'll just tell you that I literally hated reading about it, because they were both so stupid and I could not comprehend why they couldn't just TALK to each other. Oh, but Grandpa doesn't talk. He writes everything down. One sentence per page. He singlehandedly kept the paper industry in business for 40+ years. My overall impression of Grandma and Grandpa's lives: What a waste. Anyway... Like I said. I wanted to like this book. I remember 9/11 and I remember how heartbreaking it was. I remember being glued to the TV and feeling almost physically sick. So I thought this book would be moving and beautiful and heartbreaking. But instead it was just frustrating. It was all over the place, gimmicky, and overall pointless, since Oskar's investigation had nothing at all to do with his father in the end. What a waste. ...more According to E. Wilson 'No two persons ever read the same book.' I love an author that allows a story to just unfold; that leaves me to draw my own conclusions. I love that it wasn\u2019t just about 9-11 but also war torn Dresden and Hiroshima. Well my spin is this is probably the most powerful anti-war book I\u2019ve ever read. The stream of consciousness writing style is the perfect choice. It\u2019s lyrical and appropriate, just go with it. It\u2019s not depressing; in fact parts of it are really funny. Then aga According to E. Wilson 'No two persons ever read the same book.' I love an author that allows a story to just unfold; that leaves me to draw my own conclusions. I love that it wasn\u2019t just about 9-11 but also war torn Dresden and Hiroshima. Well my spin is this is probably the most powerful anti-war book I\u2019ve ever read. The stream of consciousness writing style is the perfect choice. It\u2019s lyrical and appropriate, just go with it. It\u2019s not depressing; in fact parts of it are really funny. Then again, I\u2019d be lying if I didn\u2019t warn you - it will punch you in the gut. Oskar is such a little charmer (particularly with the ladies), a heartbreaking combination of pure innocence & genius; a compulsive inventor gifted with that enviable ability to think outside the box. He dreams up everything from portable pockets and birdseed shirts to biodegradable cars & skyscrapers with roots; yet never imagines any kind of weapon, never fantasizes revenge. He loses the most wonderful father during 9-11 yet somehow remains himself. A survivor that emerges wounded but not shattered, perhaps by choosing to transfer all that bottled up love for his lost father to others. It\u2019s not the perfect novel, what is? I\u2019ll nit-pick, I got lost with the 1st person narrative switching - the grandparents were over-the-top bizarre. Trivial complaints, if it bugs you just skim over those parts, there\u2019s plenty of magic. It\u2019s strange but I finished this book feeling cautiously hopeful. I like to imagine 9-11 could have spawned an Oskar. A free-thinking genius bound & determined to invent a world without war \u2013 heavy boots and all. memorable quotes: \"She laughed enough to migrate an entire flock of birds. That was how she said yes\u201d \u201cI knew him, Horatio; a jerk of infinite stupidity, a most excellent masturbator in the second-floor boys\u2019 bathroom \u2013 I have proof.\u201d ...more LOOK I WROTE A BOOK WITH PICTURES IN IT AND SOMETIMES PAGES OF NONSENSE. I GOT THE IDEA FROM DOUGLAS COUPLAND IN 1991. GIVE ME AN AWARD. Oskar, a thoughtful kid full of quirks and handicaps, finds a key. So the journey he goes on to find its (and his own) place in the world should be inspiring at least. But although Oskar learns all sorts of interesting things everywhere he goes, he never really makes any progress. And similarly, neither does the story. Right from the start, the prose is sharp, and the characters stand out. The father particularly is just as likable as can be. But the story as a whole moves in too many directions Oskar, a thoughtful kid full of quirks and handicaps, finds a key. So the journey he goes on to find its (and his own) place in the world should be inspiring at least. But although Oskar learns all sorts of interesting things everywhere he goes, he never really makes any progress. And similarly, neither does the story. Right from the start, the prose is sharp, and the characters stand out. The father particularly is just as likable as can be. But the story as a whole moves in too many directions without ever really going anywhere. Combine that with the different perspectives, and it comes out as a scrambled mess. It feels like George RR Martin and Chuck Palahniuk teamed up to write this. It might be awesome, but it just doesn't work. ...more Dear Kim, Thank you for making me read this, you book-pushing, carney-loving, skee ball fiend. You were right. I wish you lighter boots*, always. Dear Everyone Else, Let\u2019s get this out of the way first: There are pictures. They\u2019re intended to be clever and, at times, to clutch at your heart. It\u2019s gimmicky. I don\u2019t care. Granted, I read this at a time when I may have been more vulnerable to schmaltz. My mother had recently passed away. I was on a journey, searching for the parts of her life that had Dear Kim, Thank you for making me read this, you book-pushing, carney-loving, skee ball fiend. You were right. I wish you lighter boots*, always. Dear Everyone Else, Let\u2019s get this out of the way first: There are pictures. They\u2019re intended to be clever and, at times, to clutch at your heart. It\u2019s gimmicky. I don\u2019t care. Granted, I read this at a time when I may have been more vulnerable to schmaltz. My mother had recently passed away. I was on a journey, searching for the parts of her life that had been lost to me, filling in the blank pages of our relationship. Like Oskar, Jonathan Safran Foer\u2019s nine-year old protagonist, searching the city for the lock to fit his father\u2019s key. His father was lost on September 11th. I say lost because that\u2019s what he was. Lost. Gone, missing, not found. Oskar is trying to make sense of his loss and, in the process, other things are found. The book is made up of letters from an absent father to the son he never knew, letters from a grandmother achingly desperate to be something to someone, and at the center is Oskar\u2019s story. I mentioned his quest for the lock to fit his father\u2019s key. Systematically, scientifically, he works to make his father\u2019s key significant. He needs his father to have been something to someone. Necessary. While it irks me an entire page has been wasted on a picture of a tennis player, it also makes a very clear point to me: Words are important. A picture is not worth a thousand words. Not that picture, anyway. We need the exchange of words with one another; communication. Loquaciousness, even. We need to hear them, read them, write them on our skin, speak them with our mouths, our hands, our eyes, our mouths again. We need the words. Why didn\u2019t he say goodbye? I gave myself a bruise. Why didn\u2019t he say \u201cI love you\u201d? \u2026you didn\u2019t sound like someone who was about to die, I wish we could have sat across a table and talked about nothing for hours, I wish we could have wasted time, I want an infinitely blank book and the rest of time\u2026 Foer has a message I can\u2019t afford to ignore. When someone is something to you, tell them. Tell them how your life is better because of them. Tell them how you are better with them. Tell them you love them. There was never a right time to say it. It was always unnecessary. The books in my father\u2019s shed were sighing. The sheets were rising and falling around me with Anna\u2019s breathing. I thought about waking her. But it was unnecessary. There would be other nights. And how can you say I love you to someone you love? I rolled onto my side and fell asleep next to her. Here is the point of everything I have been trying to tell you, Oskar. It\u2019s always necessary. It's always necessary. *Read the book and you'll know what we're talking about. Maybe. ...more There are quite a few novels that you either love or hate. Not so many that you can simultaneously both love AND hate. To admire there\u2019s the high tide imaginative vitality of the writing; to irritate the relentless contrived cutesy-cutesy tugging at the heartstrings. EL&IC purports to be a novel about big bangs - 9/11, Hiroshima and Dresden - but you might say this novel is more about the consequences of over indulging feeling. There\u2019s Oskar who misses his dad who dies on 9/11 and there\u2019s his There are quite a few novels that you either love or hate. Not so many that you can simultaneously both love AND hate. To admire there\u2019s the high tide imaginative vitality of the writing; to irritate the relentless contrived cutesy-cutesy tugging at the heartstrings. EL&IC purports to be a novel about big bangs - 9/11, Hiroshima and Dresden - but you might say this novel is more about the consequences of over indulging feeling. There\u2019s Oskar who misses his dad who dies on 9/11 and there\u2019s his grandfather who loses the love of his life in the bombing of Dresden and, melodramatically, refuses to speak from that day on. The Oskar narrative just about works; the grandfather narrative is simply annoying in its whimsy and pantomime absurdity. And as such provides no aesthetically invigorating connection between the two horror days of history. In fact Dresden, like Hiroshima, seems a gratuitous service station in the novel. It\u2019s also a novel that has more sympathy for the male than the female. The practical tenacity of Oskar\u2019s mother in the face of grief is given short shrift as is the case with the abandoned grandmother. It\u2019s the males who get the best lines and make things happen in Foer\u2019s world. Essentially it\u2019s a fairy story. A bit like Benigni\u2019s Life is Beautiful in its attempt to excavate a life affirming beauty from unspeakable horror. Also irritating is that it borrows riffs from Bellow\u2019s Herzog and Grass\u2019s the Tin Drum as well as shoplifting wholesale Amis\u2019 created universe in Time\u2019s Arrow where everything happens backwards. An entertaining read but not quite great literature. Foer is still very young though. ...more I could write an endless review about this book and how amazing it is... but Im not going too, because I would never want to take or giveaway anything about this book. Youll want to feel every emotion this book gives off. such a powerful, beautiful, and moving novel. I don't think I read enough contemporary fiction to make sweeping, definitive statements about it. So I won't say that Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close is the best book of the 21st century so far. But I will say that it's the best book I've read so far this century, and that Foer belongs in the rarified category of contemporary greats like Phillip Roth and Kurt Vonnegut. This is not a perfect novel; it gets a little (but just a little) gimmicky in spots, and there are times when you just wish I don't think I read enough contemporary fiction to make sweeping, definitive statements about it. So I won't say that Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close is the best book of the 21st century so far. But I will say that it's the best book I've read so far this century, and that Foer belongs in the rarified category of contemporary greats like Phillip Roth and Kurt Vonnegut. This is not a perfect novel; it gets a little (but just a little) gimmicky in spots, and there are times when you just wish Foer would tell his story and get on with it. But the overall effect is amazing. Oskar Schell, the pre-pubescent protagonist, is one of the most memorable characters in all of American literature. His quest--to find the lock opened by a mysterious key he finds while mourning his father's death in the 911 attack--takes him all over NYC and into contact with a host of striking characters. Interwoven along with Oskar's quest are two other epistolary stories that reminisce on the Dresden bombings and the regrets of a life shattered by trauma. Extremeley Loud and Incredibly Close reads like an attempt at salving the wounds of 911, but it's more than that. It's a meditation on survival and hope. And it's not nearly as hokey as I just made it sound. ...more Sometimes, I'm actually grateful for when good ol' insomnia kicks in. I can deep clean my kitchen without any distractions, play catch-up with the never-ending, nervous-breakdown-inducing amount of laundry I have, and even try to finally watch a movie (surprisingly, even snooze-worthy The Wolfman couldn't get me to sleep). And of course, I can read. Sure, I hate myself in the morning and feel like crap all day, but there's times that it's worth it. Especially when the book I'm reading is as good Sometimes, I'm actually grateful for when good ol' insomnia kicks in. I can deep clean my kitchen without any distractions, play catch-up with the never-ending, nervous-breakdown-inducing amount of laundry I have, and even try to finally watch a movie (surprisingly, even snooze-worthy The Wolfman couldn't get me to sleep). And of course, I can read. Sure, I hate myself in the morning and feel like crap all day, but there's times that it's worth it. Especially when the book I'm reading is as good as this. I loved all the characters in this just as much as I did in Foer's Everything is Illuminated . Admittedly, when I first started, I was thinking, \"This Oskar kid is supposed to be nine years old??? Really?\" But the more I read, I didn't care; I totally bought it. Bringing to life not only the events on 9/11, but also the Dresden bombings, Foer does show that some good can come out of such horrors. Which I think is really the only thing any of us can do--continuing to live while trying to comprehend something so unimaginable would be almost impossible. While finishing this early this morning, my son came in to sneak in bed with me, not knowing I was still awake. He saw me, and quietly crawled under the covers. I hugged him so hard and didn't let him go. Though I tell him all the time, this morning I told him over and over how much I loved him, to the point where he got annoyed, rolled over, and went back to sleep-with me still hugging him. That's what this book did to me. As much as we don't like to think about it, the unimaginable does happen, and I just want people to know . This really was an inspiring, beautiful and touching story. Another member for TEAM FOER checking in. Side note: This is the only book where font size has made me cry. This should have never even been released in audio format. Just sayin'...Ben. ...more Whatever with what happens to us when we die, this book reminds us of how connected we are right now and being connectioned to somone as brilliant as Foer is reason enough to be grateful! I was completely baffaled at Foer's ability to know and convey so many things at once. His intimate view into grieving was what amazed me the most, his ability to carry you into the horrible realities without turning it into a sappy, poor kid type story was amazing. So many things were familiar about living after Whatever with what happens to us when we die, this book reminds us of how connected we are right now and being connectioned to somone as brilliant as Foer is reason enough to be grateful! I was completely baffaled at Foer's ability to know and convey so many things at once. His intimate view into grieving was what amazed me the most, his ability to carry you into the horrible realities without turning it into a sappy, poor kid type story was amazing. So many things were familiar about living after someone you love has died in a tragic way: -the reeling mind that happens when somone is late. -the hiding that goes on in an attempt to lessen other peoples grief. -the dismay at seeing other people take babysteps towards healing and the utter horror with the people that seemingly leap there without a step. -the realization of guilt you feel when you step away from grief, even for a second. -the re-playing and imagining of the gory details. And all of that is only one part of the tons of stories told in this book. When I was done I felt like I couldn't verbalize the connections fast enough. I found it difficult to look at the photo's and felt weak for not being able to view what Oskar couldn't delete from his mind. I've never felt as impacted by graphic effects as I was with this book. I was lightened and stressed out and saddened by their presence. I am going to buy my own copy of this book and I'm fairly certain it wont come off my shelf unless there is someone here to share it with. I can't imagine going there alone again. Did I mention I LOVED THIS BOOK? p.s. if you see anything by Elizabeth Kubler Ross anywere, please burn it and leave this book in it's place. ...more", "Title": "Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close"},
