{"Comments": "I'm slightly ashamed to say that I watched the movie before I read the book. But I'm even more ashamed that I watched the movie only to experience the hotness that is Logan Lerman. But,<---M> come on! Someone tell me that this </---M>, is not hot: Really. What did I tell you? (I do imagine that you probably won't read the rest of the review anf just stare at this gif instead, but that's no reason not to like my review! :D) But, I really have to thank Logan.<---F> I really do</---F>. Because without his unfreakingbelieveabl I'm slightly ashamed to say that I watched the movie before I read the book. But I'm even more ashamed that I watched the movie only to experience the hotness that is Logan Lerman. But, come on! Someone tell me that this , is not hot: Really. What did I tell you? (I do imagine that you probably won't read the rest of the review anf just stare at this gif instead, but that's no reason not to like my review! :D) But, I really have to thank Logan. I really do. Because without his unfreakingbelieveable hotness, I wouldn't have watched the movie, and I would've never read the awesomeness of <+++>The Lightning Thief</+++>. Yes, I loved the book. I've always taken an interest in Greek Mythology and I thought <---A>Rick Riordan</---A>'s take on it was very unique, and unlike anything I've read before. I absolutely loved Camp- Halfblood. Well, it sure seemed better than the budget summer camps I've been to. RR seriously out did himself with writing the camp. I could imagine everything vividly and I like to think that I know the camp from back to front. The cabins would have to be my favourite feature of the camp, though. If only they were like that in the camps I've been to. Percy. What can I say? The guy has amazing underwater powers, is kick- ass and is a demigod. He's super loyal to his friends and family, is brave and has the looks (this is the part when you look at the gif of Logan Lerman again ;D). And he can make me laugh. Come on. You have to give a guy who make you laugh some credit. In short, the guy's the full package. Another thing I loved were the other characters. Especially Annabeth, who looks like Cinderella in Percy's words (am I right? I don't have the book on me, sorry. Stupid library fines). And I'm expecting something to develop between her and Percy, if you know what I mean.... So, yeah. I loved the book, it was exciting, fast- paced and humorous. Just one thing though, I'm kind of pissed that they didn't have cabins in the movie. Or Clarisse. Or the Oracle. Though it's hardly RR's fault. I just had to get it out there. ...more I need more...... A+ Writing A+ Plot A+ Characters A+ MONSTERS I thoroughly enjoyed this book! I wish I hadn't watched the movie before reading it, because I felt like that ruined a bit of enjoyment of this book for me, but for the most part I had such a fun time reading this book and I'm looking forward to continuing on with the series. When I was about halfway through this book, I started making a list of its similarities to Harry Potter. Here is a sampling from that list: 1. There are three young heroes: a brainy girl (Annabeth/Hermione), a funny screw-up type (Grover/Ron), and a somewhat troubled but very brave lead (Harry/Percy). 2. People freak when the Harry/Percy character says the name of a powerful character. 3. The main bad guy (Kronos/Voldemort) is seeking to return to his former power, but most people are totally in d When I was about halfway through this book, I started making a list of its similarities to Harry Potter. Here is a sampling from that list: 1. There are three young heroes: a brainy girl (Annabeth/Hermione), a funny screw-up type (Grover/Ron), and a somewhat troubled but very brave lead (Harry/Percy). 2. People freak when the Harry/Percy character says the name of a powerful character. 3. The main bad guy (Kronos/Voldemort) is seeking to return to his former power, but most people are totally in denial of that happening. 4. The heroes train at a school that divides its students according to their character. (Chiron, the head trainer of the camp, equals Dumbledore.) 5. Chiron/Dumbledore knows a prophecy about Percy/Harry but won't tell Percy/Harry what it is exactly. 6. Percy/Harry has a gross stepfather named Smelly Gabe who protects him during his childhood, so Smelly Gabe obviously equals the Dursleys. 7. Harry/Percy can talk to a certain animal because of his special gifts (Harry could talk to snakes, Percy can talk to horses). 8. Riordan's three young heroes face down a three-headed dog at the end of their big quest, which if I'm not mistaken is exactly what happens in HP1 (granted, the three-headed dog is straight out of Greek mythology, so I should cut Riordan some slack on this one). I could go on (and on and on) which would be fun for me, but I won't. Instead, I'll shock you by saying that I totally loved this completely derivative book. It's super fun and fast-moving and the fact that it's kind of a HP rip-off actually makes me like it more. God, I loved Harry Potter. The Lighting Thief is like methadone. That might be what I said about the The Amulet of Samarkand but it's more true here. I can't wait to read the second one! ...more My sister recommended this series and I was pretty interested in it once I heard a basic summary of the plot. I must say, I was thoroughly disappointed. The concept in itself is very creative. Son of a Greek god in modern times. He is dyslexic because he is meant to read ancient greek. That's clever. The translation of Greek gods to 21st, some were pretty well done, except for a few details here and there (a greek god would sick robot spiders against his enemies? Really?) The concept had promise. My sister recommended this series and I was pretty interested in it once I heard a basic summary of the plot. I must say, I was thoroughly disappointed. The concept in itself is very creative. Son of a Greek god in modern times. He is dyslexic because he is meant to read ancient greek. That's clever. The translation of Greek gods to 21st, some were pretty well done, except for a few details here and there (a greek god would sick robot spiders against his enemies? Really?) The concept had promise. I, however, find the story horribly executed. First off, I couldn't really get into the narrative voice. The narrator, 6th grade <---C>Percy Jackson</---C>, sounds more like a 45 year old man trying to sound like a 6th grader. I guess the author thought that if he wrote short sentences that ended abruptly, he would sound right. I didn't agree. Secondly, Percy's character development just didn't sit well with me. I just didn't like him. And he definitely overcame obstacles a little too easily. It's the first book and he already defeated several mythical beasts AND went one on one with the god of War himself and won impressively. That is quite a 6th grader. This deflated alot of the tension from the story. This kid obviously can take anything on, why should I keep reading. Third, I just couldn't help but notice that so many elements of the this story are just down right rip offs of Harry Potter. Seriously Rick, c'mon. Here are just a few that you can't help but notice: - Percy has two close friends, one is the know it all girl(Hermione), and the other is a bumbling guy(Ron). - Percy attends a Half-Blood camp where other half-bloods like him train(Hogworts). - The camps are broken in different bunks(Houses) which compete against each other in games, most famously Capture the Flag(Quittich)where the winner has their banners hung everywhere. - One house is full of mean kids who Percy doesn't get along with(Slytherin). - Percy and friends utilize an invisibility cap(invisibility cloak). - At the end, it is revealed that Kronos, described as a great evil of the past, might be returning(Voldomort). Come on Rick. I know there is no such thing as an original idea anymore, and that everything has been done at one time or another. But this series' structure is straight up cut and paste. Maybe this changes alot more in the following books, but I guess I wont find out. It's one and done for me. O BTW, Hyperion did a horrible job editing this book. There never ever should be typos in a published book, which the book has a few of. I guess they were too busy getting the movie deal in place that they didn't have time to give it a once over. ...more Chiron looked surprised. \u201cI thought that would be obvious enough. The entrance to the Underworld is in Los Angeles. \u201d As someone who has worked in Los Angeles, I can tell you that this is completely accurate. While Harry Potter was spending his summers at the Dursleys, Percy Jackson attended Camp Half-Blood. This book has done the impossible: it has redeemed the name of Percy. Yes, that's right, that snot-faced, lily-livered waste of air of the very same name from the Harry Potter universe. That n Chiron looked surprised. \u201cI thought that would be obvious enough. The entrance to the Underworld is in Los Angeles. \u201d As someone who has worked in Los Angeles, I can tell you that this is completely accurate. While Harry Potter was spending his summers at the Dursleys, Percy Jackson attended Camp Half-Blood. This book has done the impossible: it has redeemed the name of Percy. Yes, that's right, that snot-faced, lily-livered waste of air of the very same name from the Harry Potter universe. That name is now relegated to the ranks of \"acceptable,\" because of my love for this book. Perseus (Percy) Jackson is the kind of kid with whom you can't help sympathizing. He is the type that's born under a dark star, because inevitably, wherever he goes, whatever he does, however good his intentions, he can't help but fuck everything up. Everything that can, does and will go wrong. A simple field trip can turn into a disaster in seconds. Jay-Z's got 99 problems, Percy might have more. He nearly flunks all his classes, he's got dyslexia, he's got ADHD, and then there's Nancy Bobofit. Nancy Bobofit appeared in front of me with her ugly friends\u2014I guess she\u2019d gotten tired of stealing from the tourists\u2014and dumped her half-eaten lunch in Grover\u2019s lap. \u201cOops.\u201d She grinned at me with her crooked teeth. Her freckles were orange, as if somebody had spray-painted her face with liquid Cheetos. Nancy Bobofit is not a major character in the book. I have to mention her because her character resounded with me. I had my own Nancy Bobofit back in grade school, only her name is Mimi. Nearly 2 decades later, the memory of her horrible face still makes me shudder. But I digress. As if the bullies aren't bad enough, his dad is a no-show, his stepfather is LITERALLY named Ugli, and there are crones foretelling Percy's death as well as a minotaur chasing his ass around. AND NOBODY'S TELLING HIM A SINGLE FUCKING THING. What's with all the secrecy, man? As it turned out, Percy is *whispers* special. He is a half-blood, meaning one of his parents is a Greek deity. He gets sent to Camp Half-Blood, with roughly 100 other kids like him. It's a freaky place for a kid who's known nothing but relative normalcy his entire life. All of a sudden, he's playing Pinochle with a Greek God (Dionysus---what a drunk), his best friend Grover turns out to be a satyr, and the gorgeous blond girl who rescues him thinks he's a doofus and she keeps calling him \"seaweed brain.\" To be fair, Percy had it coming. He is kind of a seaweed brain. \"Another time, Athena and Poseidon competed to be the patron god for the city of Athens. Your dad created some stupid saltwater spring for his gift. My mom created the olive tree. The people saw that her gift was better, so they named the city after her.\u201d \u201cThey must really like olives.\u201d \u201cOh, forget it.\u201d \u201cNow, if she\u2019d invented pizza\u2014that I could understand.\u201d \u201cI said, forget it!\u201d Not your best moment, Percy. As it turned out, Percy IS special. His dad is one of the Big Three gods. Which kind of sucks, because that's not supposed to happen. \u201cAbout sixty years ago, after World War II, the Big Three agreed they wouldn\u2019t sire any more heroes. Their children were just too powerful.\" A lot of people would think it was pretty cool to have such a powerful dad...not really. Now that I was declared a son of one of the Big Three gods who weren\u2019t supposed to have kids, I figured it was a crime for me just to be alive. Not only does Percy have to struggle to fit in at Camp Half-Blood, but there's some shit going on in Mount Olympus. The gods are fighting again (when are they not)... \"During the winter solstice, at the last council of the gods, Zeus and Poseidon had an argument. The usual nonsense: \u2018Mother Rhea always liked you best,\u2019 \u2018Air disasters are more spectacular than sea disasters,\u2019 et cetera.\" ...and consequently, like a brother playing a prank on his younger siblings, someone's stuff was stolen. And Zeus thinks that his bro, Poseidon, put Percy up to it. Of course, blame the poor kid. Now Percy is shit out of luck YET AGAIN, and he's got no choice but to go on this huge stupid quest into the underworld (Los Angeles, ha!) to clear his name. He's not alone, he's accompanied by the snarky, gorgeous, fiercely competent Annabeth (she of the seaweed brain name-calling), as well as the most incompetent satyr that ever lived . In his pocket was a set of reed pipes his daddy goat had carved for him, even though he only knew two songs: Mozart\u2019s Piano Concerto no. 12 and Hilary Duff\u2019s \u201cSo Yesterday,\u201d both of which sounded pretty bad on reed pipes. It's going to be a loooooooong trip to the Underworld. The Setting : THIS. THIS IS HOW YOU DO GREEK MYTHOLOGY. I am a Greek mythology buff. I FUCKING LOVED THIS BOOK. This book is just absolutely fucking perfect in every way when it comes to rewriting and reinterpreting the Greek pantheon. It is so hilariously, awesomely irreverent, but completely fitting. The gods are reimagined, but they stay true to their true nature, and the myths are retold in a cheeky, flippant manner that had me giggling my ass off . This book is so fantastically snarky to the Greek gods. Everything is incredibly well-explained to a lay audience, like how the Greek gods can't seem to keep it in their pants. Annabeth nodded. \u201cYour father isn\u2019t dead, Percy. He\u2019s one of the Olympians.\u201d \u201cThat\u2019s...crazy.\u201d \u201cIs it? What\u2019s the most common thing gods did in the old stories? They ran around falling in love with humans and having kids with them. Do you think they\u2019ve changed their habits in the last few millennia?\u201d And apparently, the habit runs true for both male and female goddesses. \u201cWhat? You assume it has to be a male god who finds a human female attractive? How sexist is that?\u201d The existence of Greek gods and goddesses themselves are well explained, and believable. \u201cCome now, Percy. What you call \u2018Western civilization.\u2019 Do you think it\u2019s just an abstract concept? No, it\u2019s a living force. A collective consciousness that has burned bright for thousands of years. The gods are part of it.\" \"Did the West die? The gods simply moved, to Germany, to France, to Spain, for a while. Wherever the flame was brightest, the gods were there. They spent several centuries in England. All you need to do is look at the architecture. People do not forget the gods.\" I had my doubts about the execution of the premise of Greek mythology, and all my doubts have been destroyed. his book does great justice to the Greek gods, it is the most faithful rendition than I have ever read. The Characters : Yes, Percy is a special snowflake, but HELL, I LOVED THE LITTLE SHIT. He's got a special destiny. He is a special child. I DON'T CARE. Percy is such a sympathetic character, and although he won't be replacing Harry Potter in my heart any time soon, there is a special spot for him. He can give up pretty fast. He's kind of a wimp, but you know, finding out that you're a hald-blooded demigod is kind of a big deal, and I understand his attitude of \"GET ME THE FUCK OUT OF HERE.\" I didn\u2019t know what else to do. I waved back. \u201cDon\u2019t encourage them,\u201d Annabeth warned. \u201cNaiads are terrible flirts.\u201d \u201cNaiads,\u201d I repeated, feeling completely overwhelmed. \u201cThat\u2019s it. I want to go home now.\u201d He doesn't really want to do anything big. He's pretty stupid sometimes (Auntie Em, geez), he's not exactly heroic. He only does the heroic shit when there are no other options. \u201cAll right,\u201d I said. \u201cIt\u2019s better than being turned into a dolphin.\u201d I loved Annabeth, she is all I could want from a female supporting character. I can't say that I'm fond of Grover...but I can't help feeling that we'll be seeing more of him in the future. \u201cBut a quest to . . .\u201d Grover swallowed. \u201cI mean, couldn\u2019t the master bolt be in some place like Maine? Maine\u2019s very nice this time of year.\u201d Overall: a fantastic book. A good middle grade book makes you feel like a child again, and this book did just the trick. I found myself giggling throughout the book, and an hour after reading it, there's still a smile on my face that can't be wiped off. ...more Were you a bit weird in school? Or are you still in school and think you're kinda weird? I mean, everyone is weird, but you know that I mean. Maybe you didn't fit in, maybe people thought you were a bit of a loser. Maybe you had learning difficulties, were a target for bullies, got into trouble a lot, maybe it seemed like your teachers just didn't like you. Maybe you sucked at reading and were even diagnosed with dyslexia. Or ADHD. Well, don't worry. Truth is, you're actually most likely a child Were you a bit weird in school? Or are you still in school and think you're kinda weird? I mean, everyone is weird, but you know that I mean. Maybe you didn't fit in, maybe people thought you were a bit of a loser. Maybe you had learning difficulties, were a target for bullies, got into trouble a lot, maybe it seemed like your teachers just didn't like you. Maybe you sucked at reading and were even diagnosed with dyslexia. Or ADHD. Well, don't worry. Truth is, you're actually most likely a child of the gods with secret powers that enable you to zap those bullies and fulfill your true destiny. Screw school, you've got bigger things to deal with anyway. Lol, this book is amazing. My only regret is that I didn't have it when I was twelve years old because I would have read this until it was falling apart in my hands. Every insecure kid (so basically every kid) should read <+++>The Lightning Thief</+++> . I would want my hypothetical kids of the future to read this book. It's the ultimate childhood fantasy - discovering that everything people labelled as \"weird\" or negative about you is actually caused by your secret awesomeness. Pretty perfect message, if you ask me. I know, I know - this is plain old childhood wish fulfillment at its finest. But who cares? The best kids books are all about wish fulfillment to some extent and it's not like Percy Jackson doesn't have his fair share of enemies and heartache. It's the same idea that we all loved to buy into. The orphaned and neglected Harry Potter discovering he is a wizard. The nerdy loser-ish Peter Parker developing special abilities and becoming Spiderman. Children in the middle of WWII discovering a secret world through a wardrobe door in which they reign as royalty. Percy Jackson finding out he is the son of a god and has his own super powers. On top of the powerful message, this is a fast-paced exciting fantasy story full of friendships, Greek mythology, magic, mystery, bad guys and girls, and constant adventure. I enjoyed it now, despite me being a good ten years older than the target audience. I would have enjoyed it even more ten years ago. You should definitely go read this. Then, when you're done, give it to a kid to read too. Blog | Leafmarks | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr ...more Really is there something I could say that hasn't been said? Doubtful, but in utterly stupid human style I will write a review anyway attempting to tell people how cool this book is. This is plainly an awesome idea. I had always wondered what happened to the kids of half gods/goddess and humans. Here's the story to quench your curiosity. Percy Jackson has been dumped around from border school to border school. He has never been quite like anybody else, but as the end of sixth grade approaches h Really is there something I could say that hasn't been said? Doubtful, but in utterly stupid human style I will write a review anyway attempting to tell people how cool this book is. This is plainly an awesome idea. I had always wondered what happened to the kids of half gods/goddess and humans. Here's the story to quench your curiosity. Percy Jackson has been dumped around from border school to border school. He has never been quite like anybody else, but as the end of sixth grade approaches he'll find out how unique he actually is... I picked this up thinking that I would enjoy it, but not to the extent of really being hooked so fast. Literally from the first pages I knew I was gonna finish this book. It's geared towards middle grade readers and mostly male I think, but really all that goes away when you're reading this. As an older reader I did see most of the twists coming but that is because the author is generous about hints, which I have always liked. What really sold it for me though is the action. I have mentioned this numerous times, but I'll say it again, I am a total sucker for action scenes . Give me a good fight sequence and I'm there. A few reviews mention how this is ripoff of Harry Potter, and now that I think about it I could see where they are coming from. There are definitely similarities, but to be honest I didn't really catch that, (I guess I'm kind of dim...I shouldn't probably admit to that *shakes head* moving on) because the world the author set was so original that the similar setup can be easily forgiven. We all love heroes. Especially ones like Percy. People never expect much from him, and that's what makes this journey of his so personal to the reader. You root for him and are so glad that his muscling his way through it. It has the feel of cheering for the underdog. And I'm guessing this underdog is going to blow everyone out of the water. Extra Note: Oh glorious goodness they made a movie! Here is a link to the movie trailer. ...more EDIT 09/06/2013:- That's it. I have had my fill of too many stupid, brain-cell destroying comments posted on this review in the past few months asking me to write a 'best-selling book' before attempting to take apart Rick Riordan's writing. As if the exclusive privilege of negatively criticizing a book is accorded only to published writers and not ordinary reviewers/readers. I do have the right to record my feelings about a book in my review. And it's such a shame that I am actually being forc EDIT 09/06/2013:- That's it. I have had my fill of too many stupid, brain-cell destroying comments posted on this review in the past few months asking me to write a 'best-selling book' before attempting to take apart Rick Riordan's writing. As if the exclusive privilege of negatively criticizing a book is accorded only to published writers and not ordinary reviewers/readers. I do have the right to record my feelings about a book in my review. And it's such a shame that I am actually being forced to put up this edit to make people aware of this fact. If this review hurts your sentiments as a fan, I am sorry I can't help you there. You must grow up and learn to let dichotomous opinions co-exist in harmony on the same page. That is all. Caution:- Brutal honesty ahead. Read at the expense of having to respect someone else's views. --------- What a feeble attempt at recreating the Harry Potter magic! Aside from being highly unoriginal and unimaginative, the book grates on your nerves due to the frequency of Percy's lame attempts at sounding witty. Seriously, I'm supposed to laugh at his observations on the 'Bull Man' and 'barnyard animals' ? Not only did the writer not bother racking his brains to come up with a plot or a proper story, choosing instead to recycle key elements of the Harry Potter series, but he also ignored important aspects of a fantasy novel, one of which is the language. To call the narration just bad will be an understatement. Same can be said about the dialogue and the way the plot progresses - it's one cliched event unfolding after another. The only novel thing about this book is the seamless integration of Greek mythology into a fantasy-based set-up. The 1 star is for that. And so I'd like to put a premature end to my review because I just realized the futility of writing one of a book I hated. ...more Yet another review: Well I feel like I've rewritten/updated my review of this like a billion times at this point, but I'm here to do it again. I re-read this over the span of the past two days when I had to take two super-long bus trips. This was the third time I've read the whole thing, I'm pretty sure (kind of the fourth time I guess, since I read a lot of it out loud to my younger siblings last year). There are few books that I loved when I was 12 that I still deeply love now, and this is one Yet another review: Well I feel like I've rewritten/updated my review of this like a billion times at this point, but I'm here to do it again. I re-read this over the span of the past two days when I had to take two super-long bus trips. This was the third time I've read the whole thing, I'm pretty sure (kind of the fourth time I guess, since I read a lot of it out loud to my younger siblings last year). There are few books that I loved when I was 12 that I still deeply love now, and this is one of those few books. In fact, the more times I read it the more I fall in love with it. I adore the series as a whole and think it develops so wonderfully as it goes along, and sometimes I almost forget how great the first book is. Maybe it's not the strongest of the series, but it's still fantastic. It's exciting, it's hilarious, there are so many lovable characters and great character development/backstories/etc. and as a giant mythology nerd I love how all the Greek myths are tied in and modernized. The rest of the series just gets better and better, and I love the Heroes of Olympus series as well\u2013\u2013and it always makes me happy to go back to where it all started, and remember why I first fell in love with this book/series nine years ago. (Gosh that makes me feel old.) ------ Old/crappier review from like two years ago under the spoiler. (view spoiler) [Hmm my old review for this kind of sucked. I feel like I've rewritten this review like twenty times, but oh well. I guess I just can't do this book justice. Percy Jackson & the Olympians is one of my favorite series, despite the fact that I think it's probably aimed more toward 12-year-old boys, and ... well, I'm a 19-year-old girl. But I can't help it. I fell in love with these books when I was around 12 and I never outgrew them (which is something I can't say for most books I liked when I was 12). You know what's freaky? So, my friend and I went to a Rick Riordan book signing recently. (And that's not the freaky part, although seeing him in person was pretty freaky.) Anyway, we're standing there and I'm like, \"OMG ... A lot of these kids were, like, not even born yet the first time we read The Lightning Thief.\" We were kind of surrounded by little 7-year-old boys it seemed like. But anyway, IT WAS STILL AWESOME. And really there was no point to this story except to prove my point ... that I have loved these books for a long, long time. Everything about these books is just totally lovable. The characters are great, the character relationships are nicely developed, the story is exciting, all the Greek mythology is tied in brilliantly, the humor is laugh-out-loud hilarious. Mannn, I could go on and on. And they just get better with each book. I frequently pick these up and read parts of them just to make me feel better. They're an instant pick-me-up. Also, random side note: the movie was just ... horrible. I could go on a long rant about it, but I won't because that would be annoying. Let's just focus on how awesome the book is. These books are just beastly awesome, and if you have not read them I pity your depraved soul. Go read them now. If you have read the book and seen the movie, I am crying with you right now. If you have seen the movie and not read the book \u2026\u00a0well, something is wrong with you. Go read the book, for crying out loud! (hide spoiler) ] ...more this is a perfect book for young teenagers. if you were trying to devise a formula for writing a perfect book for this age group, you could not have done much better than this. 1) mysterious parentage. kids are totally self-absorbed. some never grow out of it, of course, but in younger people, it is more excusable - their internal life makes up the majority of their experience, they are used to being the center of attention and they spend a lot of time thinking about themselves and fantasizing. s this is a perfect book for young teenagers. if you were trying to devise a formula for writing a perfect book for this age group, you could not have done much better than this. 1) mysterious parentage. kids are totally self-absorbed. some never grow out of it, of course, but in younger people, it is more excusable - their internal life makes up the majority of their experience, they are used to being the center of attention and they spend a lot of time thinking about themselves and fantasizing. so having romantic, mysterious origins is the best thing ever - \"maybe i am the son/daughter of a god/goddess/russian count, etc...\" i still wonder about that, even though it is clear where i came from. 2) this book has excellent gender equality, so it appeals to both younger girls and boys. goddesses are just as cool as gods, and their children are equally badass. this is rarely the case in teen adventure lit. (see naruto ) 3) this makes history class relevant.(or wherever it is that kids learn about those wacky greeks) personifying the gods and goddesses makes them more recognizable and immediate for kids; bringing old litterature aliiiive and all that. and they will definitely learn not to mix up chiron and charon. 4) but it is also wonderfully subversive. it is all about polytheism and it makes the point that what we consider mythology today used to be a very real belief system for tons of people. any bright kid is going to make the logical leap to thinking about contemporary religion and how one day, it may well fall under mythology for students of the future, and how any current religious disagreements will be just like poseidon and athena's quarrels. because of this, i am surprised that this series has not been more frequently challenged/banned. oh, i know why, because the people most likely to challenge shit are not themselves capable of making that logical leap; they operate solely on knee-jerk see-a-bad-word reactions. but this book is great - it has fantastic pacing, the characters are incredibly appealing, i like the premise, and i really really like that it is five books only. i will definitely read the rest of these puppies when i get around to it. ...more I loved this book SO MUCH! Great characters, awesome world, fantastic writing, entertaining story--I can't think of any negatives! I will be adding the rest of the series (books 2-5) to my April TBR so I can read them ASAP! Who knew middle school books could make me gush and squeal like a 12-year old. I loves!!! Can we just appreciate how much FAN ART there is in this fandom???!!!??? \u0669(^\u1d17^)\u06f6 \u201cIf you\u2019re reading this because you think you might be one, my advice is: close this book right now. Believe whatever lie your mom or dad told you about your birth, and try to lead a normal life. This book is informative, interesting, funny, charming, it\u2019s just all of the above and I\u2019m already trash. The Lightening Thief, Who knew middle school books could make me gush and squeal like a 12-year old. I loves!!! Can we just appreciate how much FAN ART there is in this fandom???!!!??? \u0669(^\u1d17^)\u06f6 \u201cIf you\u2019re reading this because you think you might be one, my advice is: close this book right now. Believe whatever lie your mom or dad told you about your birth, and try to lead a normal life. This book is informative, interesting, funny, charming, it\u2019s just all of the above and I\u2019m already trash. The Lightening Thief, is the tale of Perseus Jackson, a young boy who found out he\u2019s a half-blood in a very hilarious manner. Due to his birthright, Percy is expected to embark on quests and save the world from impending war. Now it\u2019s not just Percy that\u2019s a sweet darling child who\u2019s sassy and brave and courageous, it\u2019s also his comrades, Annabeth (GIMME MORE PERCABETH PELASE) and Grover, his peculiar little friend. The trio of this group is so wonderfully entertaining to read about it. I didn\u2019t think I would LOVE a middle school book as much as I loved this one but I was thoroughly entertained the entire way! I\u2019m so enthralled with the setting of Camp Half-Blood, like can we get an entire book just set there?? It\u2019s so different from anything else I\u2019ve read. Fetus May really missed out on good reading material. Smh. So, I\u2019m sure everyone has already read this series and they\u2019re rolling their eyes at my basicness but I\u2019M SO EXCITED TO CONTINUE THIS SERIES!!! \u201cIf my life is going to mean anything, I have to live it myself.\u201d Okay, stay tuned cause I\u2019m gonna be back for more of this Percy kid. 4.5 stars!! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Buddy read with these fabulous cupcakes, Kimiiiii \u2661\u2661\u2661 and Jenny \u2661\u2661\u2661 Now you may be thinking, \"May, how on earth did you manage to pass middle school without reading these books? You must have had a terrible childhood,\" and to which I would respond, \"Yes, yes, in the book world, it sure seems that way.\" .-. ...more I am FINALLY getting around to reading this series. I thought the movies were okay, I do wish they would remake them and make them better, like the books =) Poor Percy. Look, I didn't want to be a half-blood. If you're reading this because you think you might be one, my advice is: close the book right now. Believe whatever lie your mom or dad told you about your birth, and try to lead a normal life. Being a half-blood is dangerous. It's scary. Most of the time, it gets you killed in painful, nas I am FINALLY getting around to reading this series. I thought the movies were okay, I do wish they would remake them and make them better, like the books =) Poor Percy. Look, I didn't want to be a half-blood. If you're reading this because you think you might be one, my advice is: close the book right now. Believe whatever lie your mom or dad told you about your birth, and try to lead a normal life. Being a half-blood is dangerous. It's scary. Most of the time, it gets you killed in painful, nasty ways. If you're a normal kid, reading this because you think it's fiction, great. Read on. I envy you for being able to believe that none of this ever happened. But if you recognize yourself in these pages-if you feel something stirring inside-top reading immediately. You might be one of us. And once you know that, it's only a matter of time before they sense it too, and they'll come for you. Don't say I didn't warn you. My name is Percy Jackson. Most people already know the story of Percy Jackson and how he found out he was a half-blood. How he ended up in a half-blood camp (almost didn't) How he beat a Minotaur and later on, many things. I thought it was a fun read and I loved all of the different mythical creatures! That was so wicked cool! Percy makes some good friends in the camp and they go with him to do a quest. He has been blamed for stealing something from Zeus, which he did not, so they have to set out to find who really did it. Other wise there is going to be some knock down drag out with Zeus and Percy's father (Poseidon) and others of course. So they set out on this quest. They have to go have a little chat with Hades <-- fun times. They get attacked by many creatures of all shapes and sizes. They also get help from certain creatures and a pink poodle named Gladiola who ran away from home and doesn't want to go back but does so the kids can have some reward money. Wasn't that sweet! \u2191 Can you blame little Gladiola? I mean I love the color pink, but NO, JUST NO! Anyhoo, I did want to smack the group a few times because of stupid things, but who doesn't do those from time to time. *raises hand* I loved when they saved the animals in the old truck they were riding in, Grover is awesome! I look forward to reading ALL of the other 50 billion books in this ongoing Rick Riordan world! \u2665 MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List ...more Buddyread with the demigod squad \u043c\u03b1\u04af , Jenn and Chara Illustrations by: KAIAYAME \u201cDeadlines just aren't real to me until I'm staring one in the face.\u201d More like 3.5 stars to be honest. I wish I had read this book when I was a kid. I feel like 12 year old Kimi would have absolutely adored it. That being said I still really enjoyed it as a 23 year old. It was a pretty awesome little adventure and I'm glad I read it. \u27a8Grover is definitely my favorite character of the series so far. He's basically Buddyread with the demigod squad \u043c\u03b1\u04af , Jenn and Chara Illustrations by: KAIAYAME \u201cDeadlines just aren't real to me until I'm staring one in the face.\u201d More like 3.5 stars to be honest. I wish I had read this book when I was a kid. I feel like 12 year old Kimi would have absolutely adored it. That being said I still really enjoyed it as a 23 year old. It was a pretty awesome little adventure and I'm glad I read it. \u27a8Grover is definitely my favorite character of the series so far. He's basically my spirit animal. He loves food and he's funny. What else could you ask for in a character? \u27a8I love the connection that Annabeth and Percy have. I foresee the cutest OTP coming to life in the near future. \u201cYou drool when you sleep.\u201d When that's the first thing a girl says to you, you know she's the one. (That was relationship advice with Kimi *ding*) \u27a8Mrs Dodds scares the crap out of me. We don't talk about Mrs Dodds. The world building was actually one of my favorite aspects of this book. I have always been interested in Greek Mythology so I knew quite a bit about this field already. I love how Rick Riordan portrayed the Greek gods and I can't wait to read more books in this world. The plot is the main reason why I took some stars off my rating. It's not bad or anything but as many other Middle Grade books, it was quite predictable. Overall, I'm really glad to say that I'm finally part of the fandom. I'm planning to read one Percy Jackson book a month with my good friend \u043c\u03b1\u04af for the rest of this year so we can hopefully start catching up on this bandwagon. Let's see if we can stick to this commitment. Thanks for reading, please share your thoughts in the comments. I would love to know how you feel about this series. ------- Pre-reading: For all those of you who are like \"Hey Kimi, where have you been for the last 10 years?\" Well, let's blame it on my parents (as you do) for never buying me a Percy Jackson book when I was a kid. When I first heard about this series, the train had already left and I was already \"too old\" for this kind of books so I let it go but now Rick Riordan keeps coming out with these awesome new books every year that everyone i know absolutely loves and I'm just sitting there in the corner. I feel so left behind. I want to be part of the fandom. I WILL be part of the fandom. ...more One of the Greatest Urban Fantasy's Beginning I've ever read. Now as I join Hogwarts every 1st of September & leave by May. I'll spend my Summers in Half Blood Camps. It's awfully late for me, I know. But I was stubborn enough to not listen to 2 of my best half blood friends here on Goodreads to visit meet the Olympians. \u201cGods\u2014the forces you call the Greek gods\u2014are very much alive.\u201d I can't believe it's just Mr. Rick Riordan\u2019s first novel. And Believe me if you didn't read it..you missed a real g One of the Greatest Urban Fantasy's Beginning I've ever read. Now as I join Hogwarts every 1st of September & leave by May. I'll spend my Summers in Half Blood Camps. It's awfully late for me, I know. But I was stubborn enough to not listen to 2 of my best half blood friends here on Goodreads to visit meet the Olympians. \u201cGods\u2014the forces you call the Greek gods\u2014are very much alive.\u201d I can't believe it's just Mr. Rick Riordan\u2019s first novel. And Believe me if you didn't read it..you missed a real great series.. Very well written, well paced, amazing bunch of characters & funny sarcastic tone that you'll love no matter you're twelve or thirty three. And creepy atmosphere and nightmarish scenes, interwoven with huge honest references of the Greek myth that serves as crazy urban fantasy theories related to our real life.. All that in a very hell of very thrilling real roller coaster plot, that takes you across the United States, and back again.. A story that serve for one complete story for 'Book One', and leaves you longing for the next ones that promising of even bigger plot. Now, if you're still want me to talk about why you should start reading this series, heres the above's .. ANALYSE \u25aa\u25aa Very Well Written. (4.75) -------------- Smoothly you step into the character, Percy, the narrator.. His life, bits about his past, then bit by bit into the conflict(s), then the Greek Mythology \u2026 then the Quest(s).. Finding the Lighting Thief... which is not as easy as it seem.. ups and down with thriller and chilling and creepy and even funny parts. Everything smooth and well explained with what serve book one -with hints that sure will serve later books- Well Paced. (4.99) ------------ See above. I truly rarely felt like that with most new YAs\u2026 always there's this boring slow parts that show up every now and then. here everything measured , not too heavy boring flashbacks nor prolonged scene full of rant as many action YAs... it's like the amazing Harry Potter pace if u know what I mean. Amazing Bunch of Characters (4.5) -------------------------- I loved Percy, really. May be because everything smoothly introduced. And he just keep in character, I mean for 12 years old kid, would you believe he'd go to the dangerous underworld to retrieve the Lighting weapon from The Lighting Thief? Just because some gods will do wars for it? \u201cBlaa-ha-ha!\u201d. Well... when you read his reason and motivation you'll find that it's more believable and true to the character. And I love that. Also having Attention Defucit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and Dyslexia as well as it served an important point of making the high fantasy of the Greek Myth into our real world-urban- fantasy, it also a good touch to encourage any kid who suffers that -which is bit more than you may think- anyone can be hero.. just don't make it stops you. Percy didn't stop trying to read the whole book.. -kinda- \u201cOr maybe they\u2019d realized I got my essay on Tom Sawyer from the Internet without ever reading the book and now they were going to take away my grade. Or worse, they were going to make me read the book. \u201d Annabith also was a fun to read. So smart. Groover... also this good \"strange\" friend.. And I also loved the mother and her love of Blue food. that reminds me..So long no photo, here's some blue food. Also all the other characters are very well introduced.. just as every thing. Funny Sarcastic Tone (4.5) -------------------- Very easy lines, smart, wit, not just for the young age but really for all. -unlike my previous encounter with Magnus.- It's so funny here and in the point. Creepy Atmosphere and Nightmarish Scenes (5) --------------------------------------- It's not supposed to be a horror story. But it has a lot of creepy places the friends visit.. Like this \"Ever after\" Las Vegas Casino...or Medusa's Shop for statues. And also the way Rick Riordan writes the nightmare scenes is really full of horror and creepy symbols. And speaking of symbols ; Relating Greek Myth to our Real World. (5) -------------------------------- I am NOT a fan of Fantasy, I just prefer, rather adore URBAN FANTASY -Which is why I didn't like Magnus for some serious violation to the real world- But this one really smartly written, with real references to actual myths or work of art and literature work. I loved how Mr. Rick connect the prosperity of the ancient Greek myth and civilisation with the current American one. His theory here is so smart..and convenient enough to fall in love and immerse into his well crafted world.. And if you're, like me, not feeling well about the gods concept.. he also have a convenient idea here ; \u201cWell, now,\u201d Chiron said. \u201cGod\u2014capital G, God. That\u2019s a different matter altogether. We shan\u2019t deal with the metaphysical.\u201d \u201cMetaphysical? But you were just talking about\u2014\u201d \u201cAh, gods, plural, as in, great beings that control the forces of nature and human endeavors: the immortal gods of Olympus. That\u2019s a smaller matter.\u201d So, as I said, it's the amazing blending of the myth with real life in America is what makes it an excellent Urban Fantasy.. And speaking of America. A Thrilling real Roller Coaster Plot (4.5) that Takes you Across the United States (4.99) and back again.. ---------------------------------- Although the first story for Percy supposed to be just an \"introduction\" to this world, but you find yourself gotten into a hell of adventure full of crazy chase and creepy places hidden in real world.. There's this great concept of \"the Mist\", that surrounding the myth creatures among us as the story goes.. \u201cIt's funny how humans can wrap their mind around things and fit them into their version of reality.\u201d This theme of mist repeated in a good measure to keep the illusion that it's real story happening in our real world in a real famous places along the US. And I loved visiting about 3 or 4 states and important places there through the first adventure only...and I believe more is coming in this Adventure Packed series.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ So, finally... if you're a Harry Potter fan..or any newer YA fantasy fan... or if you're old school mythology fan, you'll love to join us the Half Blood Camp.. trust me. A special thanks to my half blood friends who encouraged me repeatedly on starting this amazing series -why you didn't push me even harder :), kidding- , thanks again truly I'd never read it without your recommendation -felt I was too old to join another huge,full of books and many series. but Rick Riordant really worth the read. He got his style,, may be reminded me with Harry Potter's first book structure..but wasn't it the greatest structure ever? The point that he used it creating a whole new exciting crazy myth/modern adventure.. Mohammed Arabey With the Olympians from 3 Nov. 2016 To 9 Nov. 2016 ...more Oh, what's this box? TOMATOES? Aw, now, you don't want to do this do you? I swear I can explain!! Just hear me out, okay? Had I read The Lightning Thief at 10, I would have loved it - Hell , I just bought 15 copies for my pupils - but unfortunately it failed to wow me this time around . I know what you're thinking : really, you're just too old for Middle-Grade, why are you rating it on an adult scale? I would be tempted to agree, except it's more complex than that. See, in this Middle-Grade experim Oh, what's this box? TOMATOES? Aw, now, you don't want to do this do you? I swear I can explain!! Just hear me out, okay? Had I read The Lightning Thief at 10, I would have loved it - Hell , I just bought 15 copies for my pupils - but unfortunately it failed to wow me this time around . I know what you're thinking : really, you're just too old for Middle-Grade, why are you rating it on an adult scale? I would be tempted to agree, except it's more complex than that. See, in this Middle-Grade experiment I came across books that I loved , making me feel so many emotions that I ended a little stunned (of course I'm talking about Gary D. Schmidt 's books). While in The Lightning Thief , albeit the wonderful world-building (mythology, duh!) and the strong beginning (you gotta love a dyslexic kid discovering he's a hero), I felt less and less engrossed along the way . There's no denying that Percy is a special snowflake, but it honestly didn't bother me . In the contrary, I want to shove this book in the hands of all the kids with learning difficulties I met in my teacher (still young) career. Not only Rick Riordan nails the infuriating way many adults (including some teachers, and often parents) deal with dyslexia and attention disorders, but the way he uses what the society considers as a \"flaw\" (GAH, I hate that word) to create something entirely different is amazing . Every kid needs to dream, and those for whom life seems like an obstacle course even more. Even now, in 2016, all the dys- ( -praxia, -orthographia, -lexia ) are often misunderstood and confused with lack of work/motivation/eagerness to annoy. Thing is, the society expects people to follow the norm, and many people resent kids for having difficulties for which they bear no responsibilities. We humans have still to work on accepting differences, trying to understand and not mistaking learning difficulties for stupidity (which, unfortunately, many people have a hard time not to, and it drives me NUTS every time I have to explain why that's not true). I loved how Percy's dyslexia was handled and morphed into something magical . Yet if I enjoyed his wit and authority issues and also liked the secondary characters, I still feel as if the characterization lacked depth and complexity . I know, I know , Middle-Grade. But read Okay for Now and tell me that fleshed-out and real characters aren't possible in MG. They are . That's why although I liked Percy's team, I failed to feel really connected to them and didn't care on a strong level. It seems to me that everyone on Earth has already read these books, so I'll be quick : I adored the way Rick Riordan tackled the Greek Myths. It was imaginative, sarcastic, relevant and hilarious , and to see all these famous figures blended together in the world we know was absolutely fabulous. Even my boy (Hades, of course) was there! Woot! (I kinda hope that he will make more appearances in the sequels ;)) I won't surprise anyone by stating that The Lightning Thief was incredibly well-written and sometimes straight-on hilarious . The interactions between the characters were very well-done, and I found myself laughing out-loud several times. But as much as I appreciated the world-building and the writing, I can't deny that the plot bored me pretty fast . Look, I loved the beginning so much that I wrote \"addictive and fast-paced\" on my notes and I would have wanted nothing more than love the rest of the book as much but the plot is just so damn repetitive . I'm sorry, I may have a short attention span but the way the plot was created didn't sit well with me : Percy and his friends basically spend their time fighting a monster, and then another one, and another one, over and over again. I mean, GAH . This kind of story always bores me and diminishes my interest. This said, I still enjoyed the ending and will probably come back to Half-Blood Camp in the future. \u25ba All in all, I'm glad The Lightning Thief exists because this kind of books reminds me why literature is important for kids - to escape a shitty life, or just dream. I can see myself offering this book to many children in the years to come. Well-done . No tomatoes, yeah? For more of my reviews, please visit: ...more \"Who's your favorite Greek god?\" my cousin asked. \" Poseidon ,\" I answered immediately. With that, she began to sell me on this series... I originally wrote this one off as just another Harry Potter rip-off (which it basically is. Don't believe me? \"Half-bloods\" and the fact that instead of a prep school for wizards it's a summer camp for bastards of Greek gods). But it does have some good points, especially if you are a teacher trying to get your mid-grade class interested in mythology. I was put o \"Who's your favorite Greek god?\" my cousin asked. \" Poseidon ,\" I answered immediately. With that, she began to sell me on this series... I originally wrote this one off as just another Harry Potter rip-off (which it basically is. Don't believe me? \"Half-bloods\" and the fact that instead of a prep school for wizards it's a summer camp for bastards of Greek gods). But it does have some good points, especially if you are a teacher trying to get your mid-grade class interested in mythology. I was put off by the way the author tends to pander to children in his writing and his obviously trying to hook Coca-Cola for some kind of endorsement. Much of the writing seemed forced and inorganic, but 12 year olds will hardly notice that. I was entertained by it even though the movie adaptation is horrendous. After reading 10 of these books (and with an eleventh on the way), I can say that Riordan has made these stories more his own and less a Harry Potter facsimile. ETA: typos ...more For some reason, I did not think I was going to like this book. I was worried because it was a Middle Grade book, I wouldn't like it too much. But no, I was so wrong. I LOVED THIS BOOK! Of course it wasn't perfect. Some things that happened on this book are questionable, but then again, this is a Middle Grade book. I shouldn't compare the writing or the depth of this book to an Adult book or even a Young Adult book. This series is even better than some of the YA/Adult books I've read. And no, I am For some reason, I did not think I was going to like this book. I was worried because it was a Middle Grade book, I wouldn't like it too much. But no, I was so wrong. I LOVED THIS BOOK! Of course it wasn't perfect. Some things that happened on this book are questionable, but then again, this is a Middle Grade book. I shouldn't compare the writing or the depth of this book to an Adult book or even a Young Adult book. This series is even better than some of the YA/Adult books I've read. And no, I am not kidding. It easily became one of my favorites. I am actually reading the second book right now and so far, it is not disappointing me. THE GIST Percy Jackson don't like trouble. But it seems that trouble always finds him. See, bad things happen to me on field trips. Like at my fifth-grade school, when we went to the Saratoga battlefield, I had this accident with Revolutionary War cannon. I wasn't aiming for the school bus, but of course I got expelled anyway. And before that, at my fourth-grade school, when we took a behind-the-scenes tour of the Marine World shark pool, I sort of hit the wrong lever on the catwalk and our class took an unplanned swim. And the time before that... Well you get the idea. No matter how much he tries to be a good student or merge with the crowd, some unfortunate event would most likely happen. And the most recent was being attacked by his Algebra teacher who turned out to be literally a monster. Or at least that's what he thought. But anyways, no one remembers this Algebra teacher. Then weirder things started happening. His best friend, Grover, started being so paranoid that he offers to take him home.\u00a0The bus ride how was not the typical bus ride you'd get going home. His mom finds out about the incident at school. She then realize that it was time to tell Percy why weird things happen around him. \"I tried to keep you as close to me as I could,\" my mom said. \"They told me that was a mistake. But there's only one other option, Percy - the place your father wanted to send you. And I just... I just can't stand to do it.\" His father wanted to send him to a summer camp. But it's not just any regular summer camp. Turns out... Percy is a half-blood. His father, who he has never met before, was actually a God. Not the Christian God, but one of the Greek Gods. Yeah. I know. Sounds impossible but it's true. And this where his adventure starts. THE MAIN CHARACTERS Percy If you're a normal kid, reading this because you think it's fiction, great. Read on. I envy you for being able to believe that none of this ever happened. I really liked Percy. At first, you'd probably think he is one of those perfect, special, could-do-no-wrong type of character. But he wasn't. Percy wasn't perfect. He was a teenager with a temper issue. And also a trouble magnet. Trouble follows him everywhere he goes and as the story progress, you'll find out why that is. I\u00a0was so refreshing to read from his perspective. He was sarcastic when he talks. And he really loves his mother. Also, it was good to see that he wasn't a push over. He didn't take crap from anybody even when he knows that they are superior to him. Like what he did with Ares. I'm not going to spoil you, but it's one of the highlights of this story for me. And I understood his motivations and why he was upset with his dad. Everything he does and say are understandable. Annabeth \"I'm afraid it's because we're getting closer to being dead.\" I really liked her! One of the best female character's I've \u00a0read about. Why? Because she wasn't a Mary Sue. She was strong. She was feisty. She was smart. But underneath all that, she was a girl broken by the people who were supposed to take care of her. But really, I loved Annabeth. The movie Annabeth's character wasn't as fleshed out as the book one. The book Annabeth\u00a0was better because she was strong but also vulnerable. Grover \"As long as there's a snack bar without monsters.\" What can I say about Grover? He was funny and I also like him. I guess I liked all the main characters in this book. He was the comedic addition to the entire adventure. And like Annabeth and Percy, he does have his own reason for doing the things he is doing and I love that. PLOT DEVELOPMENT I liked how the plot was so fluid. There was never a dull moment in this book. There were slower moments, but then slowly after, then the action comes back up again. The author let's the new information you get sink in first, before he introduces a new conflict or a new challenge they have to overcome and I like that. He doesn't only develop the plot, but also the characters. I feel some books lack either of the two, but this books has a balance of that. It focused on both the plot and the characters. SETTING I LOVED\u00a0how he brought the Greek Gods out of Europe\u00a0and into North America. It was so believable. I love Greek Mythology and because of that, I know quite a bit of it. And the way he used the mythology to make it this book's reality. It was so clever and so freakin' awesome. THE WRITING I am a big fan of the writing. It wasn't what I expected really because of the movie. I thought Percy was going to be this shy, timid character who let's himself be bullied, but then finding out that he was something special. He was special, but he wasn't all he other things I said. At the beginning of this book, he sort of spoke to the readers. So it was a bit of a second person POV, but switched to first person shortly after the opening lines. But it was great. I liked that. THINGS I LIKED \u2714 The characters were so real and awesome. I liked how they all aren't perfect. Even the Gods. They were very believable and were written so well you'll be able to relate to at least one of them. \u2714 I liked how the story developed. The pace was so great. It was quick paced when it had to, but there were some slower points that allows the reader to let the information sink in. \u2714 The involvement of the parents. I liked how they weren't left out in the story. They had their own roles to play in the lives of the characters. Two of them in particular. \u2714 How the author used the Greek myth and used it in this story. It was hilarious how he depicted some of the Gods. He stayed true to the myth, but made them a little bit more human. If that makes any sense. \u2714 I knew who the Lightning Thief was going to be (because I watched the movie... hehehe.. sorry) but this book just surprised me still. It was so different from the movie. I was like \"Wow. Why didn't they use that in the movie instead?\" THE THINGS I DIDN'T LIKE \u2718 While I liked how he uses the Greek Gods, I did have some questions. \"If they were so powerful and they know everything and looks at everything, how can they not know who stole Zeus' lightning bolt?\" I mean Apollo has Oracles right? If not, then I'm sure they have other ways to figure it out. I'm not gonna get into spoilers but the person who caught the Lightning thief but didn't do anything about it was the least of the Gods I would expect to catch him. I didn't buy that part. \u2718 The conflict was a bit weak for me. I do understand this is a Middle Grade book, but it's just one of the things I didn't like. FINAL WORDS I love this book! I highly recommend it if you have a Harry Potter hangover. I'm not saying they are the same, but the adventure it will take you on is quite the same. I would be continuing on with this series and hopefully finish the second one soon. ...more How do I begin to explain the awesomeness that is this series...? Percy Jackson is flawless. It has two Celestial bronze daggers and a sliver chariot. I hear its pages are insured for $10,000. I hear it does Diet Coke commercials in Greece. Its favorite movie is Disney's Hercules. One time, it met JK Rowling on a plane and she told it it was the next Harry Potter. One time, it punched me in the feels... It was awesome! If you like Harry Potter, you will probably like this book, too. Come to think of it, if you do not like HP, you may still like this book. Recommended reading ages are grades 5-9 but if you're younger and like to read this book may very well be fine . . . and, this book is actually written well enough for adults to enjoy as well. Tale focuses on a 12 year old boy named Percy who isn't getting along with just about everyone in school and soon discovers part of his problems are related to the fac If you like Harry Potter, you will probably like this book, too. Come to think of it, if you do not like HP, you may still like this book. Recommended reading ages are grades 5-9 but if you're younger and like to read this book may very well be fine . . . and, this book is actually written well enough for adults to enjoy as well. Tale focuses on a 12 year old boy named Percy who isn't getting along with just about everyone in school and soon discovers part of his problems are related to the fact that he's the son of the Greek God, Poseidon, which leads him to a training camp for Half-Bloods/Demigods and then a quest to stop the Zeus and Poseidon from tearing the whole world apart. PROS (1)Told in first person narrative and therefore flows particularly well.; (2) Hip and cutting edge enough, focusing on popular, trendy spots like Las Vegas, at one point, for instance.; (3) Well detailed info on mythology so one could learn a lot without cracking open a mythology book. A lot of the details are woven into the story rather than just told to you.; (4) Some really funny lines or events; (5) Well established relationship with his mortal mother; (6) Some good action scenes that focus on Greek Mythology; and (7) A few surprised even the veterans of fantasy reading won't spot. CONS (1)For adults, if you don't like archetypes and standard story archetypes, you may find this a bit predictable in certain parts. Remember that it's written for young readers.; and (2) Percy tends to fall into a few jams because he doesn't think things through. He's twelve so I suppose he gets some slack for that but then he also does some smart things so judge it as you will. STORY/PLOTTING: B plus; MYTHOLOGICAL FOCUSES/FRESHNESS: A; CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: A minus to A; YA FOCUSES/GETTING IT: B plus to A minus; WHEN READ: 2009 (revised review Jan. 2013); OVERALL GRADE: A minus ...more HALF-BOY, HALF-GOD, ALL HERO!!....the Tagline says it all. Percy Jackson is your quintessential pre-teen, dyslexic and suffering from ADHD. Getting into unexplainable scraps and shuffled from school to school, he pretty much accepts the fact that he\u2019s destined to be......well, one big Loser. Little does he know that he\u2019s a \u2018Half-Blood\u2019, an off spring of a powerful Greek God and a mortal woman. And there is a special place for him, \u201cCamp Half-Blood\u201d which houses and protects other such demigods, n HALF-BOY, HALF-GOD, ALL HERO!!....the Tagline says it all. Percy Jackson is your quintessential pre-teen, dyslexic and suffering from ADHD. Getting into unexplainable scraps and shuffled from school to school, he pretty much accepts the fact that he\u2019s destined to be......well, one big Loser. Little does he know that he\u2019s a \u2018Half-Blood\u2019, an off spring of a powerful Greek God and a mortal woman. And there is a special place for him, \u201cCamp Half-Blood\u201d which houses and protects other such demigods, nymphs, satyrs and the rest of the celestial brigade. But every thing is not peachy-keen in heaven. The Greek Gods are very much active in the western world, quibbling like normal siblings and ready to wage war at the drop of a hat. An important weapon has gone missing and unless it is recovered soon and handed over to its rightful owner, the Gods are willing to unleash their fury on the world. So newly discovered demi-god, Percy has been given the dubious honor of retrieving the missing weapon. Accompanied by mates Annabeth and Grover, Percy sets off on his quest, battling icky monsters and vaulting over tricky situations. The plot never loses it\u2019s quirky pace and dangerous surprises spring up at every corner. Rick Riordan has dragged Greek Mythlogy out of the musty ol\u2019books and given it a fresh and humorous angle. With every page, you find yourself ardently praying for a sequel, which I am glad to say.....THERE IS!!! (thank the Gods, temperamental as they may be!!!) ...more WrensReads Review: Wooooah buddy, talk about your twist, monsters, humor and, honestly, some education! So, yes, this series is a little below my reading level, but I knew I wanted to read this series because I have always had a love for the Greek belief! The stories and the craziness that are the Greek gods and goddesses (you know, sleeping with whoever they want to sleep with and making half-gods-half-humans aka heros) are even mentioned in this book! But in a way that still makes it okay for th WrensReads Review: Wooooah buddy, talk about your twist, monsters, humor and, honestly, some education! So, yes, this series is a little below my reading level, but I knew I wanted to read this series because I have always had a love for the Greek belief! The stories and the craziness that are the Greek gods and goddesses (you know, sleeping with whoever they want to sleep with and making half-gods-half-humans aka heros) are even mentioned in this book! But in a way that still makes it okay for the recommended reading age (which I believe is middle school). Percy Jackson is a hoot and a holler. He reminds me a lot of the voice of Me and Earl and The Dying Girl by Jesse Andrews. He picks on himself and explains the things and people around him like anyone would. Like for example, he calls his step-father \"Smelly Gabe\". Percy find out he is a \"hero\" and that his dad is.. a pretty important guy up on Mount Olympus. When he finds out his dad and his, er, brothers are in a huge fight over a stolen item, he sets out, or is told he must, to make it right by his dad and possibly save someone he cares about. Overall, it was an enjoyable read and I am pumped about reading the rest of this series. It is perfect for that awkward-preteen-stage, reading level and above (because, hi, I'm almost 24 and I super enjoyed it so). WrensReads | Twitter | Instagram ...more I knew almost nothing about Greek and Roman mythologies prior to reading this book. So, while reading the first two chapters and when I had difficulty following what's going on, particularly who were those characters, I picked up and started reading Edith Hamilton\u2019s Mythology. After finishing the first chapter of that book, I resumed my reading and then I could follow. The reason for my ignorance was that my teachers in elementary, high school and college did not bother teaching about those gods I knew almost nothing about Greek and Roman mythologies prior to reading this book. So, while reading the first two chapters and when I had difficulty following what's going on, particularly who were those characters, I picked up and started reading Edith Hamilton\u2019s Mythology. After finishing the first chapter of that book, I resumed my reading and then I could follow. The reason for my ignorance was that my teachers in elementary, high school and college did not bother teaching about those gods and goddesses. When people say \u201cgod,\u201d for me it should be one of the three persons of one God: the father, the son or the holy spirit. Although, of course, mostly it is the son or the father and rarely the holy spirit). Virgin Mary nor any of the female saints has never been referred to as a goddess. Growing up, when a woman is referred to as a goddess, she must be a fox and not something that can move mountains or create a storm. Okay. Okay. I had some sketchy knowledge about Mercury, Mars, Venus (the Romans and not the planets, silly!) from the komiks that I used to read as a kid but I did not think that those had Greek equivalents who were created or made popular by Homer (around 850 B.C.) who wrote the Iliad , an epic poem about the Trojan War and is among the oldest extant works in Western literature. So, here I am saying hello to: Kronus (one of the Titans) who had three children: Zeus (ruler of the heaven), Poseidon (ruler of the sea) and Hades (ruler of the underworld). The three children seem to be evil that they \u201ckilled\u201d their father and pound them into pieces. However, Kronus as the father of Gods cannot be killed so he is just there somewhere beneath the earth and he is making himself felt and I think he is like Voldermort in Harry Potter who will be the ultimate villain in the end of this series ha ha. With the looks of it, Texan guy Rick Rioldan (born June 5, 1964 \u2013 at last! A famous author as old as I ) cleverly used this portion of the Greek mythology and make us believe that Mt. Olympus which is where the 12 Olympians (3 of those I mentioned) reside, is on the 600th floor of Empire State Building in New York and the underworld where Hades stays is in Hollywood in Los Angeles! Good thinking for a guy as old as I ha ha. Two target (captured) markets: the old ones who love reading books about Greek mythology and the young ones who love adventures set in American soil. Clever guy. He is a graduate of University of Texas at Austin in 1986 where in double-majored in English and thought English history including Greek mythology (that\u2019s why he knows his stuff oh so thoroughly). He got his first Master Teacher Award in 2002. So, the guy is not just an ordinary mortal like us, he is a model teacher! The story revolves around a 12-y/o boy Percy Jackson who is a demigod (son of Poseidon) with ADHD and dyslexia. He helps in finding the missing master bolt of his uncle Zeus to prevent the war between the two gods. In his quest, he is helped by Grover , a satyr and AnnaBeth also a demigod as she is the daughter of Athena , the daughter of Zeus. Sorry, for lovers of romance, there is no love angle to the story because Athena is Percy\u2019s (or Perseus, his Christian err Greek name) first cousin. The plot is this ordinary but teacher Rioldan made sure that he followed the formula for YA: interesting characters, build the climax, throw in the mystery of Oracle, unstoppable action, one conflict after another up to the point of almost losing the quest, then suddenly pop! there goes the resolution and then explain, explain, make the readers believe that everything still makes sense, then as this is a series, hang some stuffs unresolved, and oh the second book oh, put the first chapter of the second book to tease them to read it too. Everything is in order: Flawless in following the formula to the letter. Witty and funny lines. Brilliant boundless imagination. I just cannot find fault about this book. And oh, for those who did not like this book because they felt too old for this kind of story? Why did you pick it up in the first place? Aren't the cover and the blurbs obvious? ...more I have a feeling i'll enjoy this a lot more than Harry Potter. What can i say, i have a soft spot for clever and humorous characters. ( Harry was neither ) I first watched the movie version of this book that I really enjoyed and so I became interested to read the book. So I just want to say that I rate it four stars because the story is about Greek mythology in the modern world, which is good because I loved mythology ever since. I love the characters in the story especially Percy Jackson who in the story have dyslexia and ADHD, so in the story at first, he was not very good at school and he viewed himself as a loser because of that. It really tou I first watched the movie version of this book that I really enjoyed and so I became interested to read the book. So I just want to say that I rate it four stars because the story is about Greek mythology in the modern world, which is good because I loved mythology ever since. I love the characters in the story especially Percy Jackson who in the story have dyslexia and ADHD, so in the story at first, he was not very good at school and he viewed himself as a loser because of that. It really touched my heart when I've heard of Rick Riordan the author of the series, who have a son named Haley. So Rick Riordan is a greek mythology teacher in middle school and he used to tell greek bedtime stories to his son and eventually he ran out of myths so he thought of creating a new story for his son. So here is the awwww part, Haley was diagnosed to have ADHD and dyslexia so that's the reason Percy Jackson is created as a demigod with ADHD and dyslexia. It felt good that somehow Rick Riordan's story became successful especially since this is very inspirational to those people who have dyslexia and ADHD. ...more Don't judge a book by it's movie! I don't care if this is middle grade literature.I am starting this soon! EDIT 11/01/17 : So, apparently Percy Jackson is being turned into a musical (yeah, I don't know how to feel about that) and Rick Riordan posted a clip of the guy playing Percy on his instagram (still don't know how to feel about it) so, here's the link for anyone who hasn't seen it because I need to discuss it with people: https://instagram.com/p/BPGUNMLh88z/ \u201cYou shall go west, and face the god who has turned; You shall find what was stolen, and see it safely returned; You shall be betrayed by one EDIT 11/01/17 : So, apparently Percy Jackson is being turned into a musical (yeah, I don't know how to feel about that) and Rick Riordan posted a clip of the guy playing Percy on his instagram (still don't know how to feel about it) so, here's the link for anyone who hasn't seen it because I need to discuss it with people: https://instagram.com/p/BPGUNMLh88z/ \u201cYou shall go west, and face the god who has turned; You shall find what was stolen, and see it safely returned; You shall be betrayed by one who calls you a friend; And you shall fail to save what matters most, in the end.\" I will never be ashamed that one of my favourite series of all times is technically categorised as a middle-grade series. I read this book for the first time almost exactly four years ago, did a re-read early last year and decided that I couldn't go without reading about Percy's adventures again. Especially after reading The Hidden Oracle a few weeks ago. Every time I read this book I pick up on things I didn't the first two times, small facts that make me laugh or make me smile. I just love reading about Grover, Annabeth and Percy, one of my favourite trios. They are beyond amusing in their dialogue and interactions. Though, at times, they do feel older than 12. I'm not sure I have to summarise this plot because almost everyone knows what it is about, personally, though I think this quote from the book just about sums up everything: \u201cMy name is Percy Jackson. I\u2019m twelve years old. Until a few months ago, I was a boarding student at Yancy Academy, a private school for troubled kids in upstate New York. Am I a troubled kid? Yeah. You could say that.\u201d I can understand why some people wouldn't enjoy this series. It is action packed however and I don't think there is a stand still moment that features throughout the book. The trio are always facing some kind of problem which puts them in a life or death situation that seems to lean more in the death situation than anything. I also remain to stand by my belief that Sally Jackson and Annabeth Chase are my favourite characters in this entire world that Rick writes. I mean Poseidon calls Sally a queen and Percy compares Annabeth to a princess when he first sees her. Coincidence? I think not. In conclusion, an amazing re-read and I believe that I will never personally tire of this series. ...more Oh, please don't get me wrong. This book is adorable. I mean, come on - it's about a kid who wants to go save his mom. It's also a great stonking adventure with lots of flashy prose and a sweep-me-up-and-never-drop-me plot. Fun, fun, fun. The only real problem I have with this book is the same that I have with pretty much every other fantasy tale that follows suit with Greek mythology: Medusa. Just don't get me started. I don't really want to get into a rant about it, so let's just say that in anc Oh, please don't get me wrong. This book is adorable. I mean, come on - it's about a kid who wants to go save his mom. It's also a great stonking adventure with lots of flashy prose and a sweep-me-up-and-never-drop-me plot. Fun, fun, fun. The only real problem I have with this book is the same that I have with pretty much every other fantasy tale that follows suit with Greek mythology: Medusa. Just don't get me started. I don't really want to get into a rant about it, so let's just say that in ancient Greece they were perfectly happy to go right ahead and blame the victim. Consider this the next time you read anything about how eeeeeeevil Medusa is. ...more", "Title": "The Lightning Thief"},
