{"Comments": "I've been deliberating for a few hours over doing a Serious Business review of <+++>City of Bones</+++> and outlining the infinite number of problems that lie within, but I decided that any critical thought that I could flesh out isn't going to be anything that you've never heard before. Therefore, I choose the low road - sarcasm and mockery.<---F> Oh,<---M> Cassie Clare</---M>, you so crazy</---F>. I can only guess that after writing almost a million words of Harry Potter fan fiction, a bunch of people sucking your e-cock for steal I've been deliberating for a few hours over doing a Serious Business review of <+++>City of Bones</+++> and outlining the infinite number of problems that lie within, but I decided that any critical thought that I could flesh out isn't going to be anything that you've never heard before. Therefore, I choose the low road - sarcasm and mockery. Oh, Cassie Clare, you so crazy. I can only guess that after writing almost a million words of Harry Potter fan fiction, a bunch of people sucking your e-cock for stealing whole paragraphs from books and quotes from Buffy simply wasn't enough. No, I understand. You had to capitalize on all that time spent typing up whole paragraphs from books and outlining plots that pretty blatantly ripped off from various films, books, etc. I get it. I'm sure that's how the Mortal Instruments came to fruition. It is painfully obvious that your dopey red-haired ingenue and snarky blond asshole were essentially Ginny Weasley and Draco Malfoy in Original Character clothing. Ditto Simon being a hybrid of Harry/Ron and maybe Isabelle being a slutty Hermione. But wait, you didn't stop there! Hodge is Lupin/Peter Pettigrew 2.0 and Luke is better known by his other name, Sirius Black, and I am not entirely sure why you didn't just call Valentine by his true name - Voldemort. And seriously, though, why not just call the Mortal Instruments by their true name - the Deathly Hallows? But wait, it gets better! Strong with this novel, the Force is - because somehow there's a creepy Luke and Leia thing going on with Clary and Jace which, for the record: dude, that's nasty. How dare you let them make out and then discover they're related. Because I had to know in order to keep myself from hurling up my dinner, I did discover that this little detail does get resolved eventually, but I reiterate: that's nasty. I thought the point of this book was to make teenage girls hold their hands to their hearts and swoon, not make them want to upchuck with what I find to be your disturbing affinity for incest (seriously - you had the whole six episodes of Star Wars to steal, uh, draw inspiration from and you pick the creepy incesty parts?). But it's weird, because if Jace and Clary are Luke and Leia, does that make Simon Han Solo ? In a weird way, I found Jace's whole over-confident demeanor to be more like Han, which I guess is pretty on point with what happens in later novels. In other news, I will no longer be referring to Valentine as simply that; he is now Darth Valentine. Yes, I said it. I guess this makes Jocelyn Padme, except she's not dead yet. I must give you where credit where credit is due, though. Clary isn't a total dumb, annoying, doormat heroine, which is essentially my biggest pet peeve in the entirety of fiction. Instead, Clary is just dumb and annoying. Why the fuck does she slap everyone? It doesn't make her a strong, venerable female, it makes her a psychotic bitch, especially since there wasn't a single justifiable slap she delivered. Also, she's a moron. Blind, deaf babies knew that Simon was in love with her. My dog knew that Simon was in love with her and the most complicated thought he has in a day is, 'gee, I think I'll lick my junk today'. I have no idea why it's such a surprise to her, really. This brings me to my second greatest pet peeve and yet another trope that you liberally borrowed from, well, everyone: all the boys want Clary. What the hell is this shit? Clary isn't even likable . You stole it off of Stephenie Meyer who stole it off of L.J. Smith and frankly? You keep copying copies, the shittier-looking and harder to read they get. You are not an exception, you are the rule. Also, okay. So the Clave is like the circle of Jedi, right? And the Circle is like the Order of the Phoenix and the Death-Eaters, sort of, but bad. So, like, Order of the Sith, kind of? Also, is Darth Valentine channeling Magneto from X-Men: The Last Stand with his whole 'purifying the race' bullshit? I think he is. Now that I've brought the X-Men into the picture, I can see the vast similarities there, too; Clary is film version Rogue and Wolverine - Rogue because she can't be with the person she loves physically (Rogue's life-sucking power = Clary's being in love with her brother) and Wolverine because of the whole not having any memories thing and wondering why he has all this power. Also, The Institute = The Knight Bus/Hogsmeade/The Leaky Cauldron (because sometimes the Institute boards travelers and there's bad food at all three places, much like Isabelle's cooking) and also Xavier's School For Gifted Youngsters (and Hodge is kind of Professor Xavier-esqe - his inability to leave the institute = Professor X's disability) and also The Jedi Training Academy and also possibly Starfleet from Trek. You know what the funniest thing about all this is, Cassie Clare? You aren't even stealth about stealing. You know, when most people shoplift, they maybe do a cursory look for the cameras and stuff something in their pocket when they think no one is looking, but you're that chick that goes up to the clerk, asks a clerk a question about a product you have in your hand while winking that you just don't have the money to pay for it. In this book there were blatant reference to both X-Men and Star Wars (Magneto and Prof. X by name and the dice hanging up in the Millennium Falcon). Now that I've drawn all necessary attention to your totally original content, I want to talk about the story in general. I read this book because it was handed down to me by my recently-turned eleven year old niece. I figured, okay, I'll figure out what the big deal is with this book since everyone and their mom (no, really, I think my mom, too) has read it. My niece isn't what anyone would call fastidious; she hates cleaning her room and at dinner, she likes to mash all of her food together and make a sculpture with it and then eat it. Imagine my surprise when I saw that the portion of the book I borrowed from her had pages upon pages of highlighted words. I figured, aw cute, she highlighted her favorite parts. But, no, my eleven year old niece had gone through the book and highlighted grammatical errors . There were misspellings, comma splices, and just general bad phrasing all throughout. She had also highlighted words that she saw in multiples. Seriously, Cassie Clare, I get it. Every time a wolf shows up in your book, you don't have to describe it as 'brindled'. I get it . Did your word-of-the-day calendar run out? Did you lose your thesaurus? Do you have a short-term memory problem and forget that you used the word 'brindled' to describe a wolf eight times ? I can't even talk about the metaphors and the similes. I can't. I used to like them. Now they make me want to punch toddlers in the face because your book is full of approximately nine hundred and thirty-three million of them. I am also not going to talk about your bizarre tense changes and the random chapter you threw in from Luke's point of view which was completely out of character for both a man and a human, let alone Luke - no one talks like that. Another thing that I want to reference is this whole stele thing. In Tatiana's review , she mentioned that there didn't seem to be any parameters with this stele; it seemed to be a fix-it for whenever you had written yourself into a hole. I may not have noticed it had I not read the review first, given that as I was trudging through, I was filled with an irrational rage. It's a very good point, though. But since I read your book in three days just to get through it, I'm feeling like an asshole and I want to ask the following questions: can the stele make me look like Scarlett Johansson?; can the stele magic a cheeseburger out of thin air? These are questions of vital importance. Because if the stele can't, maybe you want to consider it in case one of your characters gets stuck on an island with no food for three years or something. In conclusion, Cassie Clare, OF COURSE YOUR BOOK IS GOOD. YOU STOLE EVERYTHING IN IT FROM OTHER PEOPLE. I just want to say that I sincerely hope that you make/have made a lot of money off your books; I also hope that the people you blatantly stole your content from take it all from you when they sue you. Here is the Reader's Digest version of this review: The Mortal Instruments = Harry Potter/Star Wars/X-Men/possibly Star Trek Clary Fray = Ginny Weasley/Princess Leia/Rogue/Wolverine/Uhura/<---A>Cassandra Clare</---A>, herself Jace Wayland = Draco Malfoy/Luke Skywalker/Han Solo/Wolverine/possibly Captain Kirk Simon = Harry/Ron/Cyclops/sometimes Han Solo/possibly Spock Isabelle = Slutty Hermione/one of the green chicks Captain Kirk always hits it with/one of Jabba the Hut's slaves/possibly Jubilee or another dumb, irrelevant mutant Alec = token gay character/C-3P0?? Luke = Sirius Black/Chewbacca Jocelyn = Padme Hodge = Remus Lupin/Peter Pettigrew/Professor Xavier Valentine = Voldemort/Darth Vader/Magneto The Institute = The Knight Bus/Hogsmeade/The Leaky Cauldron/12 Grimmauld Place/Xavier's School For Gifted Youngsters/Starfleet Academy Church the cat = Mrs. Norris/R2D2 the portals = Floo Network/Disapperating/Beam me up, Scotty EDIT: Someone pointed out that mundies = muggles GOOD POINT, YO ...more ***Warning: won't contain spoilers cause I didn't get far enough to give a fuck and discover anything worth spoiling.*** Okay, so let me get this out straight. I have never NOT finished a book before. Okay, I'm lying. The History of Sexuality Volume 1 by Michel Foucault remains unfinished as does Villette by Charlotte Bronte. Why? Because they were boring. Because, as I read them, I wanted to take a cheese grater to my skull and rub vigorously just to have something to do! But I have never NOT fini ***Warning: won't contain spoilers cause I didn't get far enough to give a fuck and discover anything worth spoiling.*** Okay, so let me get this out straight. I have never NOT finished a book before. Okay, I'm lying. The History of Sexuality Volume 1 by Michel Foucault remains unfinished as does Villette by Charlotte Bronte. Why? Because they were boring. Because, as I read them, I wanted to take a cheese grater to my skull and rub vigorously just to have something to do! But I have never NOT finished a Young Adult paranormal novel before. And I've read some BAAAAAD books. But I didn't finish this book because it goes beyond bad. It makes the History of Sexuality seem amazingly interesting and colourful. To be fair to Ms. Clare, I was not actually \"reading\" her novel so much as listening to the Audiobook. The Narrator, Graynor, did a particularly craptastic job. To be fair to Ms. Graynor, she didn't have much to work with. I tuned her out, I swear, I was focusing on the actual prose, taking in the story, trying to get interested. But the writing was terrible. It was painful. The characters were annoying. Now, I've been fair to Ms. Clare and I've been fair to Mr. Graynor. So there's only you left to be fair to now. And in order to do that, I have to admit that I wasn't EXPECTING to like this book. I was, however, expecting to be pleasantly surprised, and I'll explain why. Many years ago, Cassandra Clare was Cassandra Clair - a VERY popular FF author in the Harry Potter and LoTR circles. I actually greatly enjoyed her Draco Trilogy. I've read it many times. I had heard that this book was very similar to DT and so I was expecting to find it to be a guilty pleasure. Something my moral compass told me to leave behind, but that I would actually enjoy too much to do so. But I was wrong. Yeah, she plagiarized that work and I won't really go into it except to post a link because in the end, I'm not reviewing her, I'm reviewing her work. But here's the problem. Jace is really just Draco from DT. Simon is really just Ron and Harry amalgamated into one. Clary is really just Ginny. The bad guys seems too much like good ol'Voldie. The plot is painfully similar to DT. It was like reading her old work all over again. And I think, because she was really just redressing her old characters, she didn't even both to give them any growth in this story. To be honest, I didn't read far because the writing was boring (oh my lord, the similes! Someone save me from them) and poorly constructed; the characters were boring and poorly constructed and the plot was boring and poorly constructed. I'd already read DT so I didn't need to read this. ...more Okay, so I\u2019m far behind the curve on reading this, but I very much enjoyed my introduction to the world of nephilim, Shadowhunters and demons. Clare constructed a vivid, believable parallel world with great characters, punchy dialogue, and a winning mix of humor, pathos and action. I like her take on warlocks, vampires, and werewolves, and of course I\u2019m a big fan or urban fantasy, where these fantastic elements mix into the regular gritty city life of New York. Clary Fray is a sympathetic protag Okay, so I\u2019m far behind the curve on reading this, but I very much enjoyed my introduction to the world of nephilim, Shadowhunters and demons. Clare constructed a vivid, believable parallel world with great characters, punchy dialogue, and a winning mix of humor, pathos and action. I like her take on warlocks, vampires, and werewolves, and of course I\u2019m a big fan or urban fantasy, where these fantastic elements mix into the regular gritty city life of New York. Clary Fray is a sympathetic protagonist, though I was equally drawn to the supporting cast. I especially like that the villains are believably three-dimensional. Even when you do not support them, you understand what motivates them. There is no easy black and white, good and evil dichotomy. I\u2019ll be interested in seeing where the series goes from here, and what Clare does with her Victorian prequel series The Infernal Devices. ...more Wow. I was reading some reviews on this and people either hate or love it. I am not ashamed to say I belong to the latter. Lots of opinions means there is lots of things to say... Ok so I was practically splitting my head open thinking of what exactly I wanted to say about this book. In the end I just decided to go with what comes to mind. So here it goes... Clare does a superb job of drawing you in. Maybe the plot isn't completely unique but the world she created is. I kept telling myself this is Wow. I was reading some reviews on this and people either hate or love it. I am not ashamed to say I belong to the latter. Lots of opinions means there is lots of things to say... Ok so I was practically splitting my head open thinking of what exactly I wanted to say about this book. In the end I just decided to go with what comes to mind. So here it goes... Clare does a superb job of drawing you in. Maybe the plot isn't completely unique but the world she created is. I kept telling myself this is sooooooooooo interesting. The whole shadowhunter thing oozes with coolness. I mean half angel, half kick butt people! It doesn't get much cooler than that. The story is full of action and yes sometimes there are things added for dramatic effect, but isn't that the point? If you were looking for something more slow paced read The Mill on the Floss (personally I'd rather pull more hair then read this but moving on...)I'm a sucker for action sequences so this totally delivered on that front. The author's take on werewolves was original, and I gotta say they give the vampires a run for their money. I actually guessed most of the twists but that's some of the fun. Finding the hints and feeling the satisfaction of saying YES! Score for me I got it right! Let's do a little victory dance. (insert some break dancing moves I personally cannot do here) I think some people didn't get that guessing the twists is all part of the experience. Some people claimed all of this to be fluff but I don't agree. Just look at Jace. The whole feeling about belonging has depth to it. Now for why I knocked off a star even though I REALLY didn't want to. I thought Clary would be more shocked about finding out her history. You'd think with how much her mother pounded in to her that there was not such thing as magic she would resist the whole idea more. Also I think the author tried to introduce too many fantasy creatures at once. Like the scene at Magnus Bane house was overdone for my taste. We could have done without so many new faces. Those are just little irks though, my main one was Valentine. I know this is going to sound outrageous but Valentine wasn't bad enough for me. I shouldn't feel this way looking at his track record he is evil. The thing is I wasn't scared of him. A good villain has got to be scary plain and simple. I'm hoping to see more evilness in him in the next book. Well I think I've said enough. I'm so glad I'm reading this series after all the books are out. I totally expect to be blown away by the next installment:) Later added: Guess what guys? They are making a movie and here is the trailer! ...more 15-year old Clary witnesses a crime at a trendy New York night club. Interesting thing, nobody but Clary can see both the victim and perpetrators. As it turns out, there is an entire invisible to regular people world, and Clary is an unwitting important part of it. \"City of Bones\" is one of those books that all my female friends and fellow readers simply love, Jace-mania all around. Needless to say, I had to jump on the bandwagon eventually and get me some Jace. Who am I to deny myself a pleasur 15-year old Clary witnesses a crime at a trendy New York night club. Interesting thing, nobody but Clary can see both the victim and perpetrators. As it turns out, there is an entire invisible to regular people world, and Clary is an unwitting important part of it. \"City of Bones\" is one of those books that all my female friends and fellow readers simply love, Jace-mania all around. Needless to say, I had to jump on the bandwagon eventually and get me some Jace. Who am I to deny myself a pleasure to fall for a fictional hot, sarcastic and brooding guy? Imagine my disappointment, when I found out that this book was one big pile of hot mess! Sorry ladies, I said it, it's bad. I had the hardest time sticking to the story and for quite some time I couldn't figure out why. Then gradually I realized that there were several reasons. Let me start with the editing. I don't really think this book was edited at all, actually. Errors were endless and visible to even my untrained eye: wrong words (\"noise\" instead on \"nose\"); missing words in sentences; strange mix of POVs (the book is mostly told in 3rd person, from Clary's POV, but occasionally I saw both 3rd and 1st person narration in the same paragraph describing the same events, then there was a page from Jace's POV and a chapter from Luke's); Clary's father was called Jonathan in the beginning of the book, but John in the end. I can go on, but these were the things that I would normally overlook if the story itself was good. Unfortunately it wasn't, and the errors stood out. I didn't think that the story was cohesive, it just didn't quite flow for me. It read as more of a series of events rather than a novel. I thought there were some parts in the book that served no other purpose but to give our hero an opportunity to act knight-like. I am talking about the entire rat-Simon/vampires extravaganza. This story line could have been edited out completely without any damage to the narrative IMO. I couldn't quite relate to any of the characters either. What made my friends sigh with adoration, annoyed me. I hated the sarcasm, mainly because the jokes, although funny, felt often out of place, plus all of the characters attempting to joke, sounded exactly the same to me. I didn't feel the difference in attitudes of Clary, Simon, and Jace. If Clare had to make Jace a witty sarcastic type, she should have made the wisecracks his exclusive trademark, not everybody's. The story itself was so ridiculously predictable! I do not normally see what is to come in the books, but in COB, I saw every \"revelation\" coming. Clare just doesn't have a skill to lead to them subtly, it's always in your face: \"Valentine is alive\" revelation (who in this book who was thought to be dead was actually dead? - a serious question), \"your mother put a spell on you\" revelation, the big \"father/brother\" revelation - I could see them all, and I am not the most astute reader out there. Now, my biggest problem with this book - I've read/seen it all before! Clare borrows so liberally from \"Star Wars,\" \"Harry Potter\" and \"Buffy,\" it is simply impossible to overlook. Valentine - Voldemort/Darth Vader combo; Jace/Clary - Luke/Draco/Leia/Ginny (if it is possible) combo; the Circle - reversed Order of the Phoenix/Death Eaters combo; the Clave - Ministry of Magic; Luke - Lupin/Snape combo; Hodge - Giles/Wormtail combo. I can continue, but will stop here, you get the picture. Granted, there is nothing absolutely original in paranormal genre, but a skillful writer can re-work an old theme and make it new, fresh, and unique. Whatever is original in COB, is not quite thought through. As an example, let's take a \"stele.\" After finishing this book, I still have no idea what exactly it does - do you only write runes with it? how exactly do you use it in a battle? why it can open some doors and not others? it can heal, but not everything? it can make you be able to see through a wooden screen, but is it because you write a special rune with it or you use it as a wand? It seems to me stele is pretty much used as a deus ex machina, convenient whenever a quick solution to a problem needed. And what's with all the shadow folk? There is just so much mashed up together - fairies, vampires, werewolves, pixies, jinns. You name any mythical creature, it is in this book. And what about magic? I read about spells made by a warlock, stele rune tricks, curses, where does it end? The limits of magic possibilities were never defined. Bottom line, all these inconsistencies make for one unoriginal and messy imaginary world. And this probably was the main reason why I couldn't connect with this book. Finally, I was a little surprised by some of Clare's creative choices. I found both flirtations of at least 35-year-old warlock (he might be older, his age was never mentioned) with a gay teenage boy and reversed Leia/Luke extravaganza quite tacky, if not disturbing. Although I know how Jace/Clary \"family matter\" is resolved in the end, I don't find possibly incestuous relationships appealing. This review might make it seem like COB is the worst book ever written. I wouldn't say so, after all, I've read \"Breaking Dawn,\" and that book doesn't have any plot. There were some nice Jace/Clary moments, the greenhouse birthday party comes to mind. But was COB the most blatantly unoriginal book I've ever read? Absolutely (although I haven't read \"Eragon\" yet, but I heard a lot about it). In all honesty, I shouldn't give this book more than 1 star, but I will add a second one as a dedication to one Mrs. Jace Wayland. Would I recommend this book? Sure, many of my friends enjoyed it immensely. Will I continue on with the series? I don't think I will be able to convince myself to waste any more of my time on being mad at a book. I think I will just check out plot summaries on wiki and be done with the series. P.S. I just read that Cassandara Clare is an avid and famous in certain circles fanfiction writer. I guess that's where all the liberal \"borrowing\" comes from. Mystery solved. ...more 19 Apr '16 Bet you're sick of my updates, now. Just for reference, on the recent Sherrilyn Kenyon v Cassandra Clare. Kenyon has filed a lawsuit against Clare, and also provides a list of alleged similarities between Clare's work to her own. Read and decide for yourself. 15 Jun '13 update again! Saw some stills for the movie, and to be honest, despite being slightly spurious in my \"casting\" of City of Bones , I actually think my version is much better than the movie version. I mean, look at Isabelle, 19 Apr '16 Bet you're sick of my updates, now. Just for reference, on the recent Sherrilyn Kenyon v Cassandra Clare. Kenyon has filed a lawsuit against Clare, and also provides a list of alleged similarities between Clare's work to her own. Read and decide for yourself. 15 Jun '13 update again! Saw some stills for the movie, and to be honest, despite being slightly spurious in my \"casting\" of City of Bones , I actually think my version is much better than the movie version. I mean, look at Isabelle, and look at Clary. Correct me if I'm wrong, but Isabelle is supposed to be way hotter than Clary. And don't even get me started on Jace. I mean, Jamie Campbell Bower was cute in a couple of his other films, but.... Jace was supposed to be..... I dunno... swoon-on-your-feet-panty-wetting hawwwt . And Simon..... I mean, he has \"friendzone\" written all over him. 12 Jan '13 I know this is now being made into a film, and I know they've all got the cast sorted out, but I imagined them very differently. So here's how they all played out in my head: Simon - Aaron Taylor-Johnson For some reason, I always imagined Simon as young Eisenheim. And a part of me wants to kick myself for associating the 2006 film with this book in any way. Alec - Ezra Miller And no, it's not because he's queer. Isabelle - Jessica Szohr Because I wanted to put this picture in here, 'kay? Jace - Draco Malfoy I mean come on. Is there even a debate on this?? Clary - Kristen Stewart Only because her acting skills match the quality of Clary's personality. 11 Aug '12 Also known as Why Readers CAN Review An Author As Well As His/Her Book, And Why STGRB Are Full of Shit And Obviously Never Took English Lit Classes For Telling Us We're Not Allowed To . I heard about the whole plagiarism issue long before I even heard of Cassandra Clare 's books, so I tried getting into it as objective as possible, given the circumstances. All I know is that she pretty much copy-pasted whole wads of text from another FF writer, from published books, from TV dialogue - into her Draco Dormiens trilogy, without providing any credit to the original authors. I also know that she lifted wads of text from Draco Dormiens into her published Mortal Instruments . What remains a mystery, though, is whether these bits copied into The Mortal Instruments were her own original pieces of writing, or some of them even plagiarized work? I won't go much into the whole plagiarism thing, since if indeed any plagiarized work exists in The Mortal Instruments , that is pretty much speculation. However, it does bring to mind questions of ethic; should a plagiarist be published? Some people strongly believe in giving second chances. I think people only deserve second chances when they admit to their errors and have truly proven their repentance. Both cases which I have not as of yet heard Cassandra Clare do. Other questions popping into my head include shouldn't there be some sort of punishment for plagiarists?! I mean, if I did in university what Cassandra Clare did in Draco Dormiens (and, arguably, The Mortal Instruments ), then I would've been kicked out on the curb and my pretty Master's degree ripped to shreds. And, similar to the whole Chris Brown debacle, instead of condemning her far below ethical work habits, we, the consumers, commend their \"artwork\", as if sending the message that whatever wrongs they have done, it doesn't matter because people still eat their shit up. There is no learning curve here; or at least, no deterrence factor. But anyway, I tried to suppress these nagging questions while I read the book, because I wanted to know if I would truly, objectively , enjoy City of Bones . Especially after the whole \"GR Bullies\" absurdity, where an increasing number of voices proclaim that Reviews Should Be About Books And Completely Separate From The Author . Well, ladies and gentlemen, my experience reading City of Bones will provide evidence (alongside many other ample evidence out there), that no - sometimes we, as readers, cannot keep the two things separate. Sometimes, our moral and ethic code just won't let us. Reading is, after all, a subjective experience, and all sorts of things influence our enjoyment of it, including our perception of the author. And if that affects our enjoyment of a book, then it damn well does belong in a review if we choose to put it there. So. Anyway. Now that I'm off my soapbox. The biggest thing that stands out while I read City of Bones was how inconsistent the writing was . It was so lazy and repetitive, information was handed over to us on a silver platter - there was no subtlety or any depth going on. But then there would be brief, short scenes or dialogues that actually made me laugh out . Those few and interspersed scenes surprised me, like one wet and icky autumn day, when I found a five dollar bill while raking up my neighbour's filthy garden. Try as I might to ignore it, I was at a dilemma. Should I enjoy this? I mean, it's only five dollars. Surely they couldn't miss it. And, I mean, I'm working my arse off in this horrible weather because my mother owes them a lawnmower. And anyway, it might not even be theirs to begin with. In the end, I took the money (come on, you would've, too!), but I just didn't enjoy it as much as I would have. And the delight I should have felt at finding money just wasn't there. These funny bits of dialogues and scenes filled me with just as much inner turmoil as my five-dollar-note dilemma, and even though I know that maybe, perhaps, it could be that these are all Cassandra Clare 's own words, I still couldn't shake off the icky suspicions out off my gut - did she \"draw inspiration\" from some other unknown source, here? In the end, it just ravaged me with too much guilt and suspicions that what originally would have been a five-star scene was reduced down to three stars and a really, really sad face. Also a part of the inconsistent writing, was the inconsistent narration . I know 3rd person omniscient gives the narrator the power to sift through characters' thoughts and emotions as they please, but this is what made the narrative sound forced and contrived. We would normally follow Clary as the novel progresses - until it is convenient for us to see things from another character's perspective, in which case off we'll jump into another person's head. These conveniences are just one example of what I mean when I say that the narrative lacked subtlety . When we aren't directly being fed a certain character's thoughts and emotions through his/her own point of view, we are blatantly told their feelings by the character themselves. Rarely are people in real life so honest and self-aware as the characters in City of Bones . \"An asshat?\" Jace looked as if he were about to laugh. \"What you said to Simon--\" \"I was trying to save him some pain. Isabelle will cut out his heart and walk all over it in high-heeled boots. That's what she does to boys like that.\" * \"(...) You want to know what it's like when your parents are good church-going folk and you happen to be born with the devil's mark?\" He pointed at his eyes, fingers splayed. \"When your father flinches at the sight of you and your mother hangs herself in the barn, driven mad by what she's done? When I was ten, my father tried to drown me in the creek. I lashed out at him with everything I had--burned him with everything I had--burned him where he stood. (...)\" * \"I didn't think you liked me all that much.\" Isabelle's brightness faded and she looked down at her silvery toes. \"I didn't think I did either,\" she admitted. \"But when I went to look for and Jace, and you were gone...\" Her voice trailed off, \"I wasn't just worried about him, I was worried about you, too. There's something so ... reassuring about you. And Jace is so much better when you're around.\" The point I'm trying to make, here, is that we get to know the characters because other characters are constantly telling us about them , instead of us making our own informed opinions of them based on their actions and words. This is why I say the writing was lazy and lacked depth . And how Cassandra Clare tried to show us that her characters have background and troubles and are oh such damaged goods was more or less through self-testimonials such as the second quote up above, where Magnus Bane so conveniently gave away his entire childhood to three random teenagers. The chapter The Werewolf's Tale was another one of these self-testimonials for another partially-important character. This is a whole new level of telling-instead-of-showing. Where unimaginative writers just unload all these information through descriptive prose, Cassandra Clare was at least creative enough to hide it into her dialogue. But the same underlying problem is still there - we see none of this \"damaged goods\". I didn't need Sweeney Todd to tell me his past to know that he was a damaged, troubled man. His actions spoke it for me. As for information being handed to us on a silver platter -- all you need to do is take a look at the entire ending scene with Valentine to see my point. The whole chapter was an infodump session. Rarely do I read villains who are so eager to reveal their past and provide explanations to their potential victims. The Harry Potter novels were slightly guilty of this - especially in the earlier books - but I believe a lot of other things about the books redeemed itself from this one fault. Jace was also a bit of an infodumper , but I don't take away points for this. I mean, I get it - it's hard to get on without one character at least explaining what the blazes was going on. Speaking of characters ... this is rather tough. Many reviewers despised Jace because he was such an asshole. Clary herself accuses Jace of being an asshole plenty of times. But I've lived a fair amount of years, and I was friendly with quite a few assholes during my own teenage years. And let me tell you one thing: Jace is no asshole. He's a guy with daddy issues, trying to act tough. And that is as deep as any of the characters get. I guess, he would be my favourite character out of the whole lot - not my favourite character as in the one I liked the most, but the character whom, in my opinion, was the most developed, without self-testimonials or other characters telling us about him. But remember my five-dollar-note dilemma? Yeah. Jace was, without a doubt, a direct cut-and-paste of the Draco from Clare 's Draco Dormiens trilogy - who, by default, is a creation of JK Rowling 's. So forgive me if I \"can't separate the book from the author\" because frankly? If I enjoyed this book simply because of Jace, that doesn't say much about the rest of the book, or the quality of writing, because Jace is not even Clare 's original character. Further illustrating the inconsistencies of Clare 's writing, though, was the sudden and drastic change in Jace's character during the scene with Valentine. There is no way one person, in such a short amount of time, could thoroughly convince and change Jace into such an ... obedient? passive? receptive? character. No matter who the person claimed he was, or what evidence he brings to the table. Even if Jace believed in everything Valentine told him, there is no way it would have drastically changed him in such a manner and such a short time. Just as unlikely, was the way Jace was ready to walk the ends of the world with Valentine, build a new life with him, and in the next moment - after a few words from Clary - was ready to throw that all away once again. The double inconsistencies astound me. Clare simply does not understand human psychology or even human nature enough to make solid characters. The other characters were forgettable, to say the least. They all sounded the same, I'm afraid. Witty, dry sort of humour. It gets tiring after a while. Also, the Magnus-and-Alec thing? Can I just say, ew ? Magnus is like, what? Forty? And Alec is ... sixteen? Even Valentine the Villain was ... not much of a villain. He didn't frighten me, or even daunt me. I kept reading how Clary was disgusted at how manipulative he was during his scenes, but reading the pages myself, reading his words, his actions? He wasn't particular conniving or ingenious - really, it was just that Jace was so ready to have a family back, he was willing to lap up every bit of contradicting information he heard. Plot progression and twists were unsurprising. Uninspired. No, wait, they were inspired. By Star Wars and Harry Potter , to name a few. Perhaps even a bit of Buffy in there. And this is where my final dilemma lies. To like, or not to like? That is the question. For light fluff, it has entertainment value enough. But what little entertainment value there was , was lifted off other, better, pieces of work out there. To say that I did not enjoy City of Bones would be a lie; but the question is, did I enjoy City of Bones , or did I enjoy the bits of Harry Potter and Star Wars in City of Bones ? I'll let you decide if it's fine to like a book filled with other writers' characters, other authors' plot twists, other screenwriters' dialogue. Perhaps I'm being too uptight, but here's how I see it. New York with Potterverse and Star Wars. Take that away and what are you? ...more I was instantly enchanted when I first read City of Bones , and that enchantment still holds four years, and at least half a dozen re-reads later in sptite of the fact that I'm older, wiser, and should know better. I've also read countless reviews, both adoring and loathing and have come to the conclusion that this book does not garner any type of middle ground, you either love it or you hate it. I'm glad that I get to love it. What else can I say? For me, this book shines, and to those of you who I was instantly enchanted when I first read City of Bones , and that enchantment still holds four years, and at least half a dozen re-reads later in sptite of the fact that I'm older, wiser, and should know better. I've also read countless reviews, both adoring and loathing and have come to the conclusion that this book does not garner any type of middle ground, you either love it or you hate it. I'm glad that I get to love it. What else can I say? For me, this book shines, and to those of you who loved it, I imagine you are a bit like me. You found yourself immersed in a world where demons roam the night, weres run a bar, vamps occupy abandoned hotels, warlocks cast spells while rockin glitter in their hip hugging jeans, and the law is upheld by Shadowhunters, a race of humans blessed by the angel Raziel. Hokey? Sure. Rockin like a unicorn adorned bike? Hell yes! Even the setting, NYC, was so palpable; it became another character in this vibrant story. I thought the Shadowhunter world was funny, sleek, dark, sexy and hopeful. More importantly, the characters came so alive for me that they jumped off the pages. I felt as though I were in the story with them as opposed to merely following along in their journey. Regardless of the types of books you prefer to read, or the characters that endear themselves to your heart, I think we all read to for some type of enjoyment. What evokes that enjoyment varies from reader to reader, but I still find excitement within these pages. To me, that is the mark of a fantastic book. ...more \u201cShadowhunters: Looking Better in Black Than the Widows of our Enemies Since 1234.\u201d I read City of Bones for the first time 5 years ago. I still remember that day. The sun was shining, the birds were singing It was during my first semester in Law School and I had to study History of Law, which was a complete waste of time because seriously, who is ever going to ask me whether women in Byzantium could get a divorce? (In case you are wondering, they could only if the husband was impotent or pos \u201cShadowhunters: Looking Better in Black Than the Widows of our Enemies Since 1234.\u201d I read City of Bones for the first time 5 years ago. I still remember that day. The sun was shining, the birds were singing It was during my first semester in Law School and I had to study History of Law, which was a complete waste of time because seriously, who is ever going to ask me whether women in Byzantium could get a divorce? (In case you are wondering, they could only if the husband was impotent or possessed). Aaanyway, I wanted a break and I grabbed this beautiful book and started reading until I finished it, bleary-eyed, disoriented and obsessed . A typical day in Kat-verse. So what's the story? Shadowhunters (ninja warriors with angel blood) fight demons and co-exist with vampires, werewolves, fae and warlocks while a former Shadowhunter with nazi tendencies threatens to destroy them. City of Bones is a fast-paced, action-packed paranormal book that keeps you invested in the story and the characters since page 1. A nerd, a heartbreaker, a jealous friend, a warlock who loves glitter, a werewolf, an artist and a gorgeous warrior introduce you to a world of magic, where nightmares come true, truths are revealed and decisions have to be made. Diving into this world is easy, effortless and so, so enjoyable . \u201cIs this the part where you start tearing off strips of your shirt to bind my wounds?\" \"If you wanted me to rip my clothes off, you should have just asked.\u201d Humour and sassiness are all over the place and witty banters crack you up. But mind that there is also drama, plot twists and shocking moments that make you question the writer's humanity (and maybe sanity). Cassandra Clare has a unique ability, her writing can heal and stab your poor heart. \u201cThe boy never cried again, and he never forgot what he'd learned: that to love is to destroy, and that to be loved is to be the one destroyed.\u201d I need to warn you about Jace. He is the kind of bad boy who makes rude gestures to nuns and loves weapons and treats everything like a joke and is a total badass. You will fall in love with him and swoon and want to have his babies but you're in for disappointment. Because he is mine . So that's the general awesomeness of the Mortal Instruments. Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | BookNest ...more Pure and utter crap. I wish there were ways to give negative stars. I certainly want the time from my life back. I would compare its writing quality to a fanzine, except that comparison wouldn't be fair to fanzines. But I swear to God, it took every single bad fanfic writing cliche and published them. What were her publishers thinking??? Where was her editor?? It was horrible. I would dearly love for a fanfiction author to make good and become a published writer, but I'd prefer one with talent, Pure and utter crap. I wish there were ways to give negative stars. I certainly want the time from my life back. I would compare its writing quality to a fanzine, except that comparison wouldn't be fair to fanzines. But I swear to God, it took every single bad fanfic writing cliche and published them. What were her publishers thinking??? Where was her editor?? It was horrible. I would dearly love for a fanfiction author to make good and become a published writer, but I'd prefer one with talent, thanks. ...more This will probably be my longest review, but there's a lot to cover here. What I liked: - The action sequences were written well. The pacing in them was decent and I could visualize what was happening. - The kiss between two characters (view spoiler) [Jace and Clary (hide spoiler) ] was also written well, and I was happy to see a kiss written as a kiss , and not like orgasmic sex (the kiss scene in Fallen was so over the top that it was ridiculous). - Some of the twisty twists were decent. What I didn This will probably be my longest review, but there's a lot to cover here. What I liked: - The action sequences were written well. The pacing in them was decent and I could visualize what was happening. - The kiss between two characters (view spoiler) [Jace and Clary (hide spoiler) ] was also written well, and I was happy to see a kiss written as a kiss , and not like orgasmic sex (the kiss scene in Fallen was so over the top that it was ridiculous). - Some of the twisty twists were decent. What I didn't like: - Pretty much everything else. Details follow. Mild cursing and awesome gifs ahead. Okay. Reviews for this are all over the place. It's very much a love it or hate it book. It's understandable given that this very much reads like Harry Potter fanfiction (I may be incorrect but I think it started as fanfiction). Valentine is so obviously a doppelganger for Voldemort that it's distracting. Plus every time I read about the Mortal Instruments, I thought of the Deathly Hallows. The story itself, though, had promise. Runes, demon hunting, that's cool. By now I'm so sick of any mention of nephilim that I don't even want to talk about that (thanks Patch!). I will also give points to Clare for not having teenagers talk like moronic robots. I actually read a book in which someone said \"Oh em gee \" and it depressed me. Clare gets the same points taken away, though, for the godawful dialogue. I say godawful because I'd heard so much about the witticisms of these characters. I wasn't expecting Oscar Wilde, but these kids weren't witty. They were goddamn annoying. You can tell when someone is in love with the sound of his/her own voice, and his/her own humor, and it showed here. Plus everyone seemed to have the same humor, and it followed a formula: Character One: \"Simple question.\" Character Two: \"Oh, that? It's hyberbole, bad simile, weird visual.\" Character One: \"Oh, you're so saucy!\" Seriously. Between the \"shotgun, where? Oh she means where to sit in the car, lol, who's on first?\", \"looking better in black than blah blah your mom, take my wife, please!\", \"hahaha better than Isabelle's cooking, am I right? Is this thing on?\", I wanted to scream. It was relentless. Even what could have passed as poignant moments was ruined by this \"humor\". Oh, you tried to brush away an uncomfortable moment by saying someone's a killer transvestite who molests cats HAHAHA I SEE WHAT YOU DID THERE. Gods, it was constant. Also, the infodumping. It was brutal . As a writer, I can sympathize with needing to get a ton of story out there, but there has GOT to be a better way to do it than sitting the newbie down and answering his/her Q&A for pages and pages. On to the characters. Now, Jace is a douchebag, and I say that because this guy is one of the most narcissistic characters I've encountered in fiction, and that's saying something. However, he never physically assaulted Clary, so he gets points for that, because other love interests in YA have certainly done that (hi Patch!). On to Clary. What a dipshit. She was okay at first, but then her Mary Sueness was brought to blinding levels. She's never used a weapon before, but she's able to throw a dagger right at a monster. Three characters, including the monster she hits, compliment her on it. You could argue that there's something inherent in her that makes her automatically good at this stuff, but I really don't care and that's lazy. I also really hated her inner monologue. They're fighting vampires - vampires! - and she takes the time to think to herself \"THERE ARE NO FAT OR UGLY VAMPIRES it's like an Abercrombie & Fitch ad with the undead all up in here\" while this is happening. She's so clueless it's pathetic. Also, there's the what seems to be obligatory mess of \"she doesn't know how beautiful she is\" thing. On its own, it could be fine, but here it was this mess of all these guys falling over Clary while she remains oblivious. Give me a break here. Have your character own his/her sexuality and beauty, or don't make them objects of desire. And don't tell me it was her winning personality that won these guys over, because she just kind of stands there until the end, and even then she whined so much I was kind of hoping she'd die. I'd love to know what was with the weird POV changes. For most of the book I was stuck with Clary, then got a page and a half in Jace's head, then Luke's, which was part of an infodumping so epic it needed a Hans Zimmer score. Seriously, if you infodump like this, my eyes glaze over and my mind clouds. Now onto more troubling issues. - Girl on girl hate. Clary goes out of her way to be shitty to Isabelle because she's prettier and knows it. Writers, this needs to STOP. Don't tell me this is how teenage girls think, that's lazy. We don't need to encourage this kind of thought in which pretty/sexy girls are the enemy. Plus how can I root for a female protagonist if she's so insecure that she treats other girls like shit if they dare make her feel inferior? Get some self respect and then call me. - Demonification of sexuality (but only if it's from other females) The single mother comment made me want to punch this book in the face. It's shitty and low. Can we not emphasize the goodness of a woman by contrasting her with women who aren't exactly like her? Ms. Clare, if you're reading this, I want to know why you felt it was important for us to see how amazing Clary's mother is as opposed to other single mothers who you made out to be skanky. It upset me. - Ethnicity for the sake of ethnicity. Don't tell me that a couple is of Asian decent or the girl you bumped into was black unless there is a reason for it. I'm probably forgetting a few things, but that's the gist of it. I won't be reading any more of this series because I can't take anymore of the aforementioned problems. One great thing - Alec and Magnus Bane. Still not enough to overcome everything else. Here's something, too. Clary asking if Alec was gay was beyond shitty. I had a gay friend in high school and was constantly asked about him, and it pissed us both off. \"What's it to you?\" was our common response. Know why? BECAUSE IT'S NONE OF YOUR DAMN BUSINESS. Oh, I did not like Clary. She made me think of a Louis C.K. bit - \"I hope she gets pushed off a cliff by someone she loves, and she screams all the way down, never accepting it, and then Superman flies in, catches her, flies up, and drops her from FARTHER UP.\" So that's my review. Take it or leave it. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more The Mortal Instruments changed the way I looked a fantasy novels. I am a huge fan now. I defiantly recommend this book for any hunger games, divergent, harry potter, and twilight fans out there. It is truly a fantastic series. I had to do it. I originally took down my review because I wanted to re-write a new one in order to make a point, but being my usual absent minded self I promptly forgot that point and so a half-written review has been sitting on my hard-drive for Hera knows how long, while people look at the [[review coming soon]] note and think...sure that'll happen. So I decided on this cool August day that I am going to re-write this damn review and get it over with. Cassandra Clare was a writer with a history that I was mos I originally took down my review because I wanted to re-write a new one in order to make a point, but being my usual absent minded self I promptly forgot that point and so a half-written review has been sitting on my hard-drive for Hera knows how long, while people look at the [[review coming soon]] note and think...sure that'll happen. So I decided on this cool August day that I am going to re-write this damn review and get it over with. Cassandra Clare was a writer with a history that I was mostly unfamiliar with because being the sheltered little angel I am, I did not have access to the fandom when all the drama went down. However, the internet never forgets so I found about it after the fact. That and a blurb by Stephenie Meyer kept me from seeking out the series, until a friend of mine gave me Clare's spin-off series, Clockwork Angel and I honestly enjoyed it. So when it came a time for me to read City of Bones I was excited honestly. No one can say I didn't go into that book with an open mind. And in return for that, it tried to melt my brain. All City of Bones managed to be was a messy accumulation of popular stories that were great in their original form, but were blended together into a low-fat, low-carb pop-culture smoothie that is as uncreative as it is long. We get treated to a book with complete character development stasis despite being nearly five hundred pages long. When our insipid protagonist, Clary discovers, after meeting a group of mysterious strangers, that there is a whole world of monsters and fae that she was previous unaware of. On top of that an evil Voldemort-like villain called, Valentine, has kidnapped her mother. Oh the drama. Clary commits the cardinal sin on any protagonist: she is stupid. Every action she takes, from the very beginning, is done to show us what a \"brave person she is\" but only serves to inform us that she can not actually use her brain. During the first chapter or so, she comes across a group of people (the Shadow Hunters) interrogating a \"Downworlder\" and she thinks that they may be a gang. Instead of going back inside to get help or calling 911, waiting for her friend to bring help or at the very least staying quiet to ensure her own safety she tried to be a hero. \"Isn't that a good thing?\" You may ask. No, it is a stupid thing to do for many reasons. The main one being they have weapons and she does not . What can she do? If she were to get involved would it actually save that guy's life? If they had actually been a gang she would have been killed, to ensure a lack of witnesses and there would be no chance at ID-ing the perpetrators later on. Thankfully, it's not an actual gang and the Shadow Hunters are so not a problem that Clary can talk with them for a while before they decided to leave. To quote a member from That Guy With the Glasses \"They're the best!\" Thankfully for Clary she is not the worst character in this series, that privilege falls onto Jace, who is the oh-so-Byronic male love interest with daddy issues and a patronizing attitude that Clary just can not resist. He is from beginning to end an asshole and there is no nicer way to put it. He is an ass. He treats Clary like a child (which while understandable is not fun to watch when that makes her fall for him) and had everyone eating out of his hand. As they participate in this journey Clary takes these discoveries of the supernatural with a causal nod and unrealistic clarity, partly because her love interest, Jace, is her mystical estrogen bait-guide. Both Jace and Clary qualify as our protagonists, even though the story is told following Clary\u2019s events. They are both pretty shallow characters, and upon further analysis are seen to be completely stagnant despite the many things that happen to them throughout the book and things technically do happen. Clary is plunged into a world where there is pretty much a war going on between the Downworlders and the Shadow Hunters. Information is thrown at her from all corners, including the fact that her memories have been erased since the age of two and Clary handles it with the equivalent of a shoulder shrug. There are brief moments of anger and outrage, but they fade unfathomably quickly. She never grows as a character and despite this book being the first of a trilogy I think it is fair to expect your lead protagonist to at least evolve a wee bit they discover the things that Clary does. Oh wait...WAIT! Silly me, I am forgetting something. Clary does grow in one respect! She becomes more of a judgey, pretentious, know-it-all. Clary judges everyone and everything she deems not up to snuff. Mainly Izzy who has the nerve to be beautiful and dress in an attractive manner. I mean the jolly-g, what nerve! And the fact that she and her brother come from money. Gasp. Two attractive women can not be in the same story and actually be friends without one treating the other like the anti-Christ after all. The comments on class might have been more effective if Clary did not grow up in one of the best areas in NYC. I have no problem rooting for privileged people with corny problems, I watch Gilmore Girls. That is at least better than a character like Clary who has her nose up in the air and looks down on everyone and yet tries to make out as if she is so humble. The way she treats her family friend once she finds out he's a werewolf--calling him a dirty Downworlder--I just wanted to smack her. Who does she think she is? Okay I have to stop talking about Clary. In terms of just writing it is just very fluffy and silly with metaphors which do not really add anything to the story. Mainly because they are awkward and do not sound anywhere as deep as they are supposed to when read aloud. The Star Wars plot twist was just irritating to read and even thinking about it makes me want to bang my head. City of Bones is just everything that annoys me about young adult literature. It is not creative and is not fun to read, which is a shame because there is potential in it. When she re-wrote it in Clockwork Angel I thought the story was much better, but then again it had Jem who is delicious and fantastic. In fact you know what, just read that series instead. If it wasn't for me not wanting to invest any more money into Clare or wanting to spend any more time with her work I might still be reading it. Now back into my dungeon. ...more I didn't always love The Mortal Instruments. In fact, the first time I read it, I found it quite immature and annoying. If I\u2019m not mistaking, I read it for the first time three years ago, just before the release of the execrable movie. Well, 1) you need to know that, at that time, I wasn\u2019t reading English books just yet (that came a couple of months later) and 2) some of the French editions look horrible (view spoiler) [ (hide spoiler) ] and those are the ones my library owned. So every time I was I didn't always love The Mortal Instruments. In fact, the first time I read it, I found it quite immature and annoying. If I\u2019m not mistaking, I read it for the first time three years ago, just before the release of the execrable movie. Well, 1) you need to know that, at that time, I wasn\u2019t reading English books just yet (that came a couple of months later) and 2) some of the French editions look horrible (view spoiler) [ (hide spoiler) ] and those are the ones my library owned. So every time I was seeking a good fantasy book and my eyes would lay on the-awful-French-editions, I would make a weird face and move on. But I gave in, because I\u2019m the type of person who likes reading books that were made into movies and analyse what makes those books so special to bring them to the big screen. Therefore I read the first and second book, but I never got around to finishing the latter. I had fifty pages left but was obliged to return my books to the library. I didn\u2019t even feel bad about not finishing the sequel\u2026 I enjoyed the fast-pacing, but I was expecting more intensity and seriousness from the characters. I didn\u2019t care about the witty dialogs and jokes, I wanted KICKASS. EIGHT MONTHS LATER. I was on Goodreads looking for something good to read, when I stumbled across CAPTIVE PRINCE. I know what you\u2019re going to say, \u2018\u2018Why do you always have to bring that series up, can\u2019t you just leave it alone for a review?!\u2019\u2019 But the truth is, Captive Prince is one of the main reasons why I decided to re-read The Mortal Instruments. So as I was saying, I found CP and then looked up the definition of M/M romance, because I had no idea what it was or what it was standing for. When I learned what it meant, I was curious and decided to give it a shot. BEST DECISION EVER. Not only did it make me want to read more M/M romance books, but it also made me want to pay more attention to Alec and Magnus! When I first read the book, and I learned that Alec was gay, I was surprised for a second but didn\u2019t have any other reaction. As I was saying, that changed after I finished CP and I started making reviews on here. I started seeing so many reviews of TMI and following Cassandra Clare on Twitter and looking at fan art of Alec and Magnus and the other characters and I started developing an attachment to the characters through all that. So when I decided to re-read the books, I paid attention to every.single.detail and expected the jokes that take way from the seriousness\u2026 I even came to anticipate them. And, of course, the parts with Alec and Magnus melted my heart\u2026 So that was my story of how I fell in love with The Mortal Instruments. It wasn\u2019t insta-love and that\u2019s okay. __________________________________ OLD CHEAP REVIEW: UPDATE: The re-reading was even better than the first read! OMG! I wasn't sure about this series at first because I thought the brother thing was disturbing, especially because I have one so it felt a bit too personal. But...I heard that everything eventually works out so I felt relieved and I started to enjoy this book more. Wow, I'm truly amazed! It's well written, every single action is fluently discribed and interesting, every character has something that makes them unique and likeable and oh my goddness I'm totally in love with Alec & Magnus!! I only want more, more, and more of The Mortal Instruments!! MALEC! [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I think this book is has some kind of mental disability. I kind of don\u2019t want to make fun of it because, you know, it\u2019s not playing the game with a full deck of cards. But, at the same time, it does not have such a significant learning disability that it needs to sit in a separate classroom from the other stories; it just has this confluence of creepiness and then some kind of mild mental challenge. So, I kind of do want to make fun of it because, you know, you probably don't have to be this unc I think this book is has some kind of mental disability. I kind of don\u2019t want to make fun of it because, you know, it\u2019s not playing the game with a full deck of cards. But, at the same time, it does not have such a significant learning disability that it needs to sit in a separate classroom from the other stories; it just has this confluence of creepiness and then some kind of mild mental challenge. So, I kind of do want to make fun of it because, you know, you probably don't have to be this uncomfortable to be around, book. It's a tough call. There was this guy in my high school graduating class like that. I\u2019m going to tell you about him in this review. I really, honestly apologize ahead of time if I offend anyone here. I especially apologize to Cassandra Clare, who I see is a GR author. I'm not meaning to disparage anyone who has a learning disability, and I have great respect for people who share their writing with others. And I'm not equating learning disabilities with mental illness or with being creepy, just to be clear. I just knew a boy who happened to have a learning disability and be creepy, and he reminds me of this book. Also, this isn't to say that people shouldn't read The City of Bones . You actually should read it, maybe, and play the really fun game, Where Did the Mangled Body Part Come From? Anyway, back to my story. For purposes of this illustration, I'm going to call the creepy high school boy David Caruso (any resemblance of that name to the name of a real person, living or dead, is purely coincidental, of course). I felt bad for David because he was so picked-on, so I tried to be nice to him. One day, he started leaving notes in my locker on notebook paper in a child\u2019s scrawl, asking things like, \u201cIf I\u2019m sad, can I have a hug?\u201d He found out where all of my classes were and would be waiting outside them when the bell rang. He lived about a block away from me, so he would walk home with me from school sometimes. After the hug note, we had a serious talk about boundaries. That night, I had to take a makeup Chemistry test, which lasted about an hour. It was pouring outside, and he waited in the rain for me, standing under a tree. When I finally left, he followed me home, walking about ten feet behind me the entire way. As I was turning to the road that led directly to my house, David desperately cried out something like, \u201cWhy don\u2019t you love me?!!!\u201d This was a relatively common experience with him. There was another girl he was following around for a while around that same time, and he went down on his knees outside of the cafeteria, saying something similar. She got a restraining order against him. I\u2019m not saying that I believe in originality, because I don\u2019t, but The City of Bones made me realize that there is a line somewhere, where the flow of literary inspiration and use of traditional themes can turn into a Single White Female incident. Rather than being a fun re-imagining of Star Wars , this story was a haphazardly sewn together pop-culture Frankenstein. Eeeet\u2019s ALIVE!!! Basically, the characters from The Gilmore Girls hook up with non-vampy, but still campy, versions of the characters from Twilight , and re-enact Star Wars . Seriously, there is a Luke Danes character, and his name in this story is still Luke. And, it turns out, it is very possible to make the Luke and Leia Skywalker relationship grosser. I'm not sure why you would want to . . . Also, I feel like there are a bunch of other stories that The City of Bones is stalking, and it seems like some other reviews list them, but I forget what they are right now. My point is that this book has killed them and is walking around wearing their skin. The other weird thing is that I\u2019m pretty sure there\u2019s a misquote from Star Wars in here. Isn\u2019t Han Solo the one who says, \u201cI know\u201d? This book says that Leia says it. And I don\u2019t mean that the Leia/Rory character in here says, \u201cI know\u201d while re-enacting the Star Wars storyline. I mean the book literally says that Leia says, \u201cI know.\u201d If you\u2019re going to SWF a story, at least get it right. Better yet, don\u2019t SWF a story because that\u2019s creepy. I listened to half of this book on audio, driving to and from a wedding, then I read the rest on the page. Neither were good. Reading on the page is a little better because you can skip the boring parts. I\u2019m not going to lie, though. It was actually a great experience. It was completely refreshing to read something awful. I thoroughly enjoyed it. I\u2019m not sure why, but it renewed my hope for writing. Still, all you young stories out there, if a stranger story with shifty eyes comes up to you and asks for a hug, it\u2019s okay to say no. Set some personal boundaries, or you might end up the victim of this kind of literary massacre. I hate to be a fear-monger, and use your own judgment, but be smart. Some of these stories obviously waited too long to take out their restraining orders. ...more Really, there's nothing very original, or satisfying in the book. She borrowed so heavily from Buffy , Harry Potter , and Star Wars that it sticks out like a sore thumb. It reads like altered fan fiction. And I love fan fiction, make no mistake, but it's not attempting to make a buck off someone else's world, either. Which is essentially what the book is. Cobbled fan fiction that has no cohesion. I knew Clare as Cassandra Claire from Harry Potter fandom, I will admit, and that did color somewhat. B Really, there's nothing very original, or satisfying in the book. She borrowed so heavily from Buffy , Harry Potter , and Star Wars that it sticks out like a sore thumb. It reads like altered fan fiction. And I love fan fiction, make no mistake, but it's not attempting to make a buck off someone else's world, either. Which is essentially what the book is. Cobbled fan fiction that has no cohesion. I knew Clare as Cassandra Claire from Harry Potter fandom, I will admit, and that did color somewhat. But no matter the reputation, my review still stands. The blatant borrowing and cobbling jarred me from the story multiple times. As I said in another review, \"most likely would have still come to the same conclusions, due to the heavy-handed writing and knowing some of the more obvious media nods. \"For instance, the Silent Brothers kept reminding me of the Bringers in season seven of Buffy, the Vampire Slayer and the Dementors in Harry Potter mixed with a little bit of monks and made goodish. Yeah. Very hard to take them seriously. And people have repeatedly mentioned Sirius's flying motorcycle, which has been labeled a \"demon motorcycle.\" That kinda reminded me of Anne Bishop's book Sebastian , which I put down to read City of Bones , because of the fact she has motorcycles that are run by demons, not for them. But still, it's obviously not something original, even though it plays a fairly important role in several scenes.\" I truly am glad I obtained the copy from the library and not purchased. I would have been irate over the 14 dollars that I would have lost. It did not inspire me to read the other two in the series. After all, I didn't spend money, so I would have been more willing to read the book. Now? Not a chance in Hades, even if it were frozen over with pink slushie. ...more Update to come (I'm doing my spring cleaning late this year). *Spoilers yeah* I\u2019m going to say this now so it\u2019s out of the way. No. I\u2019ve never read the Draco Trilogy by Cassandra Claire on fanfiction.net. No. I have no right to mention the plagiarism event around the Draco Trilogy in this review, because I have not read it, and so I will not go into the plagiarism event. Yes. I know of the plagiarism, and I find it despicable, but I\u2019m not reviewing that, I\u2019m reviewing City of Bones. THE CITY OF BONES REREAD WITH PALICE AND GHIRARDELLI It started EPIC, then tapered *Spoilers yeah* I\u2019m going to say this now so it\u2019s out of the way. No. I\u2019ve never read the Draco Trilogy by Cassandra Claire on fanfiction.net. No. I have no right to mention the plagiarism event around the Draco Trilogy in this review, because I have not read it, and so I will not go into the plagiarism event. Yes. I know of the plagiarism, and I find it despicable, but I\u2019m not reviewing that, I\u2019m reviewing City of Bones. THE CITY OF BONES REREAD WITH PALICE AND GHIRARDELLI It started EPIC, then tapered to a molasses read but who really cares. It\u2019s done now and that\u2019s that! But onto MY review! THE REVIEW STARRING GHIRARDELLI CHOCOLATE Thaaaaaaat\u2019s ME! BACKSTORY. When I first spotted City of Bones, I saw the cover and thought, \u201cHmm...interesting designs. Kinda weird, but I rather like it...\u201d Drew me in, so I read the blurb, said, \u201cLol kay\u201d and purchased it. What I remember after that first read was Clary, Jace, Alec, Isabelle, Abbadon, the Star Wars copycat sibling scene, and Jocelyn still being in a coma. Of all those things, Momma Fray still being in a coma pissed me off the most, and I dropped the series because of that alone . Fast forward to Ghirardelli present day with more of a brain. Now I got a sense of plot, character arc/development, themes, literary devices, and a fresh love for reading. Now, with this knowledge, City of Bones angers me even further without Momma Fray\u2019s limp body. Le blurb: Clarissa, or Clary Fray (Clare...Clary...*sigh*) is a 15 year-old girl who is somehow allowed into a club and meets a bunch of Shadowhunters who kill a demon party goer. They\u2019re like, \u201cSHOOT SHE KNOWS\u201d and she goes off on an adventure after she finds her apartment totaled by a Ravener demon thang and her mother not where she last left her. Aww yeah here we go! The writing... The. Writing. THE WRITING. I cannot begin to fathom just WHAT is going on with this prose. I\u2019ll admit that there are a few moments where the descriptions of certain areas are vivid and near perfect Ex: When Clary finds Jace with Valentine. That gold room with the velvet curtains and all that. Woooow lovely image.Also, with Abbadon. Fuck guys, I don\u2019t wanna get NEAR whatever that thing was. Yeesh, I\u2019ll just hide in my bed thanks. But at the same time, with this descriptions, Clare likes to drop about a bajillion these on us: \u201cMoonlight ran like silver water...\u201d \u201c...stinging and aching, like raw meat.\u201d \u201cThe apple tasted green and cool.\u201d \u201cLeaving the Institute was like climbing into a wet, hot canvas bag.\u201d \u201c...pale gold pollen as light as talcum.\u201d WHAT. NONE OF THOSE SIMILES EVEN MAKE SENSE. CLARE... Honestly, I\u2019ve never seen so many similes in one book ever . EVER . This is literary technique abuse in its natural habitat. I honestly thought Twilight was bad with the thesaurus raping, but Clare is nearly there with all of these nonsensical similes! Yes, some of them indeed worked, but having this army of them got me out of the story so quickly by about the 20th one that I was groaning every time the words \u2018like\u2019 or \u2018as if\u2019 came up. This nonsense is an example of telling us someone\u2019s reaction, rather than showing us. YOu know the whole SHOW, don\u2019t TELL thing. There\u2019s a moment where Jace\u2019s tension is described as a downed electrical wire or something, but that doesn\u2019t show me anything. It\u2019s showing me the image of a live wire on some ground. Is Jace writhing on the ground in frustration or...? Whatever. I also felt...bored. Excluding Luke\u2019s POV and Abbadon\u2019s chapter, I just sat and twiddled my thumbs. Nothing was interesting to me. The Ravener battle seemed meh and the encounter with Valentine SUPER lulzy. I think it might\u2019ve been because the POVs were switching so randomly at times. Even from page one, we have Clary scoping out the blue-haired kid, then we JUMP to his perspective and we\u2019re forced to oblige. Here I thought we\u2019d follow third person omniscient, which I have no quarrels with since I\u2019m doing that myself, but the switching was so arbitrary and rapid that I was unsure if who I was reading. It may just be me, but I get so mind-boggled when I come across that. The whacked POV really threw me for a ride. All the POV switching didn\u2019t help the plot much, nor was the plot much to begin with. Clare seems to take a nose dive into plot with Jocelyn\u2019s disappearance. I\u2019m ready to go, I\u2019m all strapped in. Then, she just kinda lets Clary float about for a while. Go get some memories, go help Simon the rat, go into a conflict between two boyz, go fetch the Mortal Cup (which we have no idea what it is or DOES until Dorothea spells it out when we\u2019re roughly 77% done the book). Even with the plot jumbled up like a thousand-piece jigsaw puzzle with forks and turns that made barely any sense, it was still there, and it was throughout the book and not shoved into the end. So by my standards, this book stands a little taller and prouder than others I\u2019ve read. I\u2019m not exaggerating that either. This book is worthy of its two stars. I feel like the second star is for the times where I just caught myself enjoying little bits like Abbadon and Luke\u2019s infodump. I found the battle with Abbadon to be fairly kick-butt, an I actually didn\u2019t mind Luke\u2019s backstory stuff so much. I started to enjoy his character a little. Speaking of characters... CLARY CASSANDRA FRAY I will never not hate Clary . Clary is a cruel-hearted, whiny, and angry little girl. She contradicts herself and her own actions, she bad mouths every living soul around her, and for what? Is this supposed to make her a strurng female churuktur or something? Kicking ass and taking names because you open-handedly smack everyone around you? That\u2019s just being mean and hateful. There is nothing appealing or likable about Clarissa Fray. She abandons her best friend, Simon, at a poetry slam to follow the boy she barely knows, then yells at Isabelle for abandoning Simon at Magnus\u2019 party, then she even forgets that Simon drove her and the other Shadowhunters back to Dorothea\u2019s. This is when Simon SAVES THEIR ASSES, too. I just can\u2019t. Clary, you\u2019re an idiot. JACE WHICH WAYLAND Our love interest, ladies and gentlemen. Tawny , tumbling gold locks, and gold eyes! Oh sweet lawd hold me! Jace is a major asshole. Simon calls him out on it. Clary does then APOLOGIZES FOR IT (HUH?), but I still would take him over Clary. Hell, with the backstory that Jace was getting, I wouldn\u2019t have minded if this were told from his perspective. I bet it would\u2019ve been a lot easier (somehow), not to mention far more interesting. I can still handle him. Like, I\u2019m not wanting to strangle Jace like I am Clary. Jace was an ass, but he didn\u2019t cross my line. He does have a tendency to be obnoxiously cheesy and loves to fail-snark the heck out of everything. Maybe I liked him more because his seraph blades were actually psychic-type Pok\u00e9mon evolutions . Actually, this brings me to one point, what\u2019s up with steles? They make runes, but they can\u2019t when someone\u2019s got demon blood in them. OKay that\u2019s cool. They open certain doors, and start...vampire motorcycles? What can\u2019t they do? Can they make me a chicken sandwich? These steles don\u2019t seem to have much going for them, like Clare said, \u201cLOOK AT WHAT I HAVE\u201d then drops them off for bumblefuck reasoning. Their description? \u201cIt was a long, luminous cylinder, as thick around as an index finger and tapering to a point.\u201d Come on, gotta keep your subtlety in check, Clare. Anywho, the only thing that made me want to gouge my eyes out were the similes and Clary Fray\u2019s behavior. Other than that, everything was just okay. It wasn\u2019t beautiful, fabulous, or pure genius. This is certainly not genius material. Stuff I write isn\u2019t genius material either. But it also wasn\u2019t the very worst thing I\u2019ve ever read. Twilight , Halo , and Hush, Hush far exceed this book on stupidity, plot, and What-the-flying-fuck. It is a decent read, but that\u2019s all I can really say about it. Read it if you want, go ahead. I just know that I don\u2019t have to go back to this book again for any reason. ...more Alex Pettyfer Update http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mSgEwl... ***OBSCENE ALERT*** Note: I will fucking kill the Casting Director if Alex Pettyfer, the man of my erotic dreams and fantasies *coughs* will not be cast as Jace Wayland! Seriously I don't care if he has a British accent and he already have Beastly, I am Number Four and Torment movies for 2011, I don't freaking care! He need to be Jace Wayland and Peeta Mellark! All I want in my life right now is HIM HIM HIM!!! Kyaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa! Alex Pettyfer Update http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mSgEwl... ***OBSCENE ALERT*** Note: I will fucking kill the Casting Director if Alex Pettyfer, the man of my erotic dreams and fantasies *coughs* will not be cast as Jace Wayland! Seriously I don't care if he has a British accent and he already have Beastly, I am Number Four and Torment movies for 2011, I don't freaking care! He need to be Jace Wayland and Peeta Mellark! All I want in my life right now is HIM HIM HIM!!! Kyaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa! ***SPOILER ALERT*** I've been curious to google Ms. Clare for the reason that I've read hate reviews about her. I was shocked to find out that she was a harry potter fan fiction writer and became controversial because she happen to plagiarize some of her chapters in her fanfic. Nevertheless the premise of this book got me interested, an ordinary girl realized that she has a shadowhunter blood and is not a mundane, her memories and sight was erased by her mother to protect her from the Clave and the Shadowhunter's world-i know reminds you of harry potter right?- so in this book I could tell that mundane was an equivalent of the world muggle from JKR. There are also obvious ideas that I felt that she got from harry potter like certain places are unplottable or cannot be seen by a mundane (uhm Hogwarts), there is flying motorcycles (Sirius motorcycle), runes, simon turned into a rat (scabbers), and there is also a portal (floo network). However what I really like about this book despite lack of originality is it definitely bad-ass, a perfect read for young adults. It is action-packed, fast-paced and never would be there a dull moment. The characters are very cool, of course there is Clary despite of being a damsel in distress all the time is surprisingly not annoying, she handles herself well at least and I love her sarcasm, wit and love the fact that she was good in drawing. The fact that she can't see how much she's beautiful in contrary that she is, is also made her a likable character. There is also Jace who is deliciously sexy and powerful, despite him being arrogant and cocky all the time the story also look to him as a melancholic person who have bothered by his past, having seen his father's death at a young age. Simon, Clary's mundane best friend which also have an unrequited love for Clary for 10 years. Jace falling in love with Clary and vice versa after all their experiences and now Simon finally confessing his love to her and now dun dun dun we have a love triangle in the story. I also like the dialogues and the fight scenes in the story it was very well-written. I love that she used Latin phrases, it's very cool. Her story is continuous and she also have twists in the story that makes it more awesome and unpredictable. Hodge betrays them and gave the mortal cup to Valentine in exchange for his freedom. Jace and Clary in the end learned the truth that they are indeed brother and sister and their father is Valentine. (this brother-sister thing reminds me of Vampire Knight) Well over-all it is very, very good so definitely I recommend it. ...more This review contains some minor spoilers. Scroll down to see an actual review, this is just some of my shit. Clary: Hi there! Jace is hot and I'm Clary but you can call me Your Typical Mary Sue! I know, it's quite a mouthful but, well, I'm special like that. I'm just your average plain looking teenager that all the boys want to bang. I'm also really smart, so smart that I can't notice that my best friend has been in love with me for the last 10 years and that my own mother has more secrets than ev This review contains some minor spoilers. Scroll down to see an actual review, this is just some of my shit. Clary: Hi there! Jace is hot and I'm Clary but you can call me Your Typical Mary Sue! I know, it's quite a mouthful but, well, I'm special like that. I'm just your average plain looking teenager that all the boys want to bang. I'm also really smart, so smart that I can't notice that my best friend has been in love with me for the last 10 years and that my own mother has more secrets than everyone in New York combined. I think Jace is a real hottie. I'm real special. Did I say that already? Oh well. Can't help it. I'm just that awesome. I'm also really plain and boring. So boring that every boy in 50 mile radius wants to fuck me and so plain that I can do things that go against every law in every fucking world; magical or non magical. My mom has been kidnapped and- Wow. That Jace is so hot. What was I thinking about? Something along the lines of 'my mother is in mortal danger'? Meh. Who cares. Jace is hot. Jace: Sup. I'm Jace. I'm a sarcastic 16 year old boy with dark past, fucked up family, scars on my arms, a wand-y thingy, blonde/golden/silver hair and grey eyes who is involved in some magical shit. But don't worry, I'm nothing like Draco Malfoy. Like, I wear leather. Simon: I'm just here for the sake of love triangle. Also, nerdy stuff. Hehe Star Wars. Alec: I'm gay. Oh you want to know about my hobbies, my interests, my personality? Well\u2026 I'm gay. Isabelle: I'm here so that the girl on girl hate can be possible in this book. Valentine: I am one nose and 8 letters away from being Voldermort. Actual review: : Harry Potter meets Star Wars in explosion of clumsy writing, weird ass characters and good old 'what, why, what the fuck is happening' ( and still ends up looking like a typical YA fantasy book). Well that sentence didn't make much sense, did it? Saying that writing was clumsy doesn't even cover it. It was all over the place. \"The armoury looked exactly like something called armoury should look like.\" No. Just... No. And what was with all the unnecessary description? \"Glasses gave liquid in them color: blood red, dark blue, poison green\" Why can't it just be red, blue and green? And, for love of God, why is it so important that I know which color glasses at the party are? Should I care? Because I don't. If you're going to use expressions that have been used for decades now (like sharp as knife), don't just throw a random word in to make it look original \"His voice was sharp like one of Luke's knives.\" \"... color of artery blood.\" \"[It] was dark as darkest night.\" I don't really think this is Cassandra Clare's fault. Her editor did a completely shitty job through most of the book. He/she should be fucking ashamed to call himself/herself an editor. Characters? Clare oh so obviously 'borrowed' them from Harry Potter. Jace-Draco Malfoy Clary/ Clarissa/ whatever the fuck her name is-Ginny Simon-a more Ron-ish version of Harry Hodge Starkweather- THERE MUST ALWAYS BE A STARK IN WINTERFELL! Uhm yeah, he's Wormtail/ Halfblood Prince version of Snape Isabelle- Hermione Alec-I think he is supposed to be Blaise? Valentine- Voldemort And it was so painfully obvious. Clare didn't even bother to change their physical appearance. For first half of a book, pretty much everyone annoyed me, especially Jace and Clary. Jace had his funny moments, but most of the time he was just a typical asshole. But still, he was nothing compared to Clary. Oh, Clary. Oh you crazy, irrational, clueless girl. Oh, you incredible Mary Sue. I got used to seeing Mary Sue-ish girls in YA novels, but this? This was a text book definition of Mary Sue. And what was with all girl on girl hate? Just take a look at some quotes: \"Isabelle looked like moon goddess. Clary hated her\" \"Clary wanted to take the pot and spill it's intregredients on Isabelle's head.\" I don't know about you, but in my world, it is not normal to wish someone death because they are hotter than you. Then, well, the book improved. One moment I was cursing Clary and her stupidity and the next I couldn't stop turning pages. The characters stopped acting like washed out copies of Harry Potter and the gang and it seemed like it was the only edited part of the book. The writing was... kinda good actually. I'm talking about 3 stars (okay maybe 2.5) kinda good. It all turned to shit at the end. Why? Because Clare decided to turn the end into a fuckin' Star Wars movie. (view spoiler) [ Pulling out the \"Luke, I am you father\" card? Really? Really?! And the incest thingy with Jace and Clary? Was that really necessary? (hide spoiler) ] While I was reading the grande finale (pff grande yeah right) I was like: Two stars, because there were around 60 pages that I enjoyed and I liked Alec and Magnus (probably because they weren't in the book long enough for me to hate them, but still). Edit 31/08/13 : I'm going to see TMI: City of Bones movie tomorrow. I heard it's hilariously bad so this should be fun. *smirks evilly* Edit 2/09/13 : It was bad. Not as horrible as I thought it would be, but still pretty bad.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I continue to work my way through the audiobooks sitting on my Audible shelf. 'City of Bones' had been sitting there for quite some time. I thought a paranormal story would be a nice change of pace, so I dived in. Unlike many of my friends on Goodreads, I haven't seen the movie and I didn't read any of the fan-fiction. In fact, I was surprised to find out that there was a fair amount of controversy surrounding this book. Apparently, a lot of people feel pretty strongly about this book/series. Si I continue to work my way through the audiobooks sitting on my Audible shelf. 'City of Bones' had been sitting there for quite some time. I thought a paranormal story would be a nice change of pace, so I dived in. Unlike many of my friends on Goodreads, I haven't seen the movie and I didn't read any of the fan-fiction. In fact, I was surprised to find out that there was a fair amount of controversy surrounding this book. Apparently, a lot of people feel pretty strongly about this book/series. Since I was blissfully unaware of the controversy, I can say that it didn't impact my listening experience. That being said, I don't read a large amount of paranormal/fantasy books. Readers that are partial to this genre will undoubtedly pick up on things that I didn't. For me, this magical world of Shadowhunters, vampires, werewolves and fae was intriguing. I thoroughly enjoyed Clary and the other characters. Although there were some predictable parts, there was enough mystery and suspense to keep my attention. I tend to listen to my audiobooks while I'm doing other things around the house or driving to work, etc. For that reason, I try to pick books that are straightforward and easy to follow. At times, this book became too complex to multitask and I had to \"rewind\" a few times to reorient myself. Overall, I thought this was a great story. I enjoyed the world the author created and the characters that were introduced. I look forward to reading more of this series in the near future. ...more Do yourself a favor and be careful reading reviews or posts that give away the ending of this book. Unfortunately, I read about the devastating twist on a message board and was sorry that I knew, sooner then I wanted to, what direction the story takes towards the end. Of course you'll have to read the next two books in the series in hopes that it's not true. It can't be true, it just can't be! Don't let the fact that this book is in the \"Young Adult\" section throw you. This is a great urban fanta Do yourself a favor and be careful reading reviews or posts that give away the ending of this book. Unfortunately, I read about the devastating twist on a message board and was sorry that I knew, sooner then I wanted to, what direction the story takes towards the end. Of course you'll have to read the next two books in the series in hopes that it's not true. It can't be true, it just can't be! Don't let the fact that this book is in the \"Young Adult\" section throw you. This is a great urban fantasy read. The characters are well developed, the story moves along at a good clip and it's full of suprises you never saw coming. ...more Why, oh why did I waste such valuable reading time finishing this? Because, apparently, I'm a glutton for punishment. I will warn you ahead of time, this review may contain spoilers!!! I'm not sure yet because I don't really care enough to plan this out. This will mostly be whining, ranting, and general complaining. Remember, I warned you. Before I dive into this review, I will tell you that I've heard the Cassandra Clare plagiarized arguments, and that this book is basically a reworked fan fictio Why, oh why did I waste such valuable reading time finishing this? Because, apparently, I'm a glutton for punishment. I will warn you ahead of time, this review may contain spoilers!!! I'm not sure yet because I don't really care enough to plan this out. This will mostly be whining, ranting, and general complaining. Remember, I warned you. Before I dive into this review, I will tell you that I've heard the Cassandra Clare plagiarized arguments, and that this book is basically a reworked fan fiction like the famed Fifty Shades of Grey books. I will not go into those details. I'm just going to look at what has been presented to me in a digital style format for Kindle. So be prepared for jokes and snarky comments that most will probably think are not funny. I decided to read this book because my fourteen year old cousin asked for the series for Christmas. I helped my family purchase it for her (because I'm their book guru) and I thought I would give at least the first one a shot. I've been trying to read more YA lately to familiarize myself with why it's so popular since I pretty much stopped reading YA when I was ten. I'd make the odd excursion into the wilds occasionally, but for the most part I didn't read much. This was my reaction to the book: WHAT DID I JUST READ! HOW IN HELL DID THIS GET PUBLISHED! DID SHE SELL HER SOUL TO THE DEVIL OR SOMETHING? Yes, I bolded that. I currently want to rub my head along the floor as I walk in the futile hope that I'll rub this book from my memory. If Sherlock Holmes' Attic Theory is to be believed, that this book is taking up valuable space I can use for my writing and better books. Let me start with the characters since they're probably the most appalling aspect. Clary: This little lovely is a fifteen/sixteen year old red-head who loves her sketchbook and doesn't think she's pretty. Sounds like me in high school. I should relate right? Wrong. Clary is one of the angriest, self-absorbed, whiniest little brats I've ever had the displeasure of getting to know. I've read my share of female protagonists who go down like cheap alcohol; they put up a fight and don't agree once you think you've stomached them. But I liked those gals anyway. Clary is not one of them. She bitches about everything. She gets angry at the stupidest stuff. She also can't keep a solid thought in her head. She wonders about the strangest things at the strangest times, like in the middle of a fight. And she slaps or scratches people with barely a reason. Let's move on, shall we? Before I throw my computer. She really pisses me off that much. Jace: I know he's supposed to basically be this popular ideal of fanfic Draco (Now with more leather!), but I honestly thought Draco was a waste of space to begin with. Not because Rowling was a terrible writer (because she's definitely not that), but because he was a terrible person! If I just look at this character without thinking about his developmental origin, I still don't like him. He's a conceited jackass. He's the kind of guy where you're friend looks at you and says, in the sassiest way possible, \"Gurl, you can do better.\" Sure, he's got tattoos and blonde sex hair, but when are those boys good for you? Now, I'll be straight with you, reader. Think of it this way. Cassandra Clare refers to Jace's blonde curls so often I was beginning to wonder if he was rockin' a perm. And he's wearing leather pants in hot, humid New York weather. His dangly bits have got to be chaffing. Seriously, ladies. That is not hot. All he's missing is an Ed Hardy shirt before he's the douche in the corner of the club you roll your eyes at. Before any fans read this and freak out on me with: OH NO! JACE IS TOTES HAWT! YOU JUS HATIN BECAUSE YOU CAN'T HAVE HIM! YOU JEALOUS CAUSE YOU CAN'T WRITE LIKE CLARE CAN! (I can't even be a pre-teen girl right, and I was one once.) There are no pictures. You are living in your fantasy. All Clare describes most of the time are his eyes and hair. If you are a grown woman and your mad at what I've said, go drool over Supernatural . The Winchesters are hot, demon hunters, and have better personalities. Okay, marginally better personalities. Whatever. At least they aren't wearing leather pants. Or in puberty. Simon: The child hood friend suffering from unrequited love syndrome. Yawn. He was awesome until he got all heart broken. Solid friend till the end even though he could have pushed Clary off a cliff and I would have felt it totally justified. The only character that the dry wit Clare tries to use fits. At one point he does tell Clary off and calls Jace an asshole, earning him my Favorite Character Award. Isabelle: The bitchy hot chick Clary hates even though she isn't that bitchy. I actually kind of liked her despite being a totally undeveloped stereotype. The butt of cooking jokes. Alec: Isabelle's boring older brother. He's gay for Jace. Hates on Clary because she's also making eyes at his dream man. He's just there for plot conflict. Too underdeveloped to be interesting. Magnus Bane: I liked Magnus despite his unfortunate attire. He really seemed better than that. I would read the other two books for him, but I'm pretty sure I couldn't suffer through more Clary. Although, he could totally be that sassy gay friend Clary needs to tell her, \"Gurl, you can do better.\" (I really wanted to say that again. I blame the lack of sleep.) Of course, nothing Clare writes is really that interesting, so I don't know why I expect it to happen. Luke: Clary's mother's friend suffering from unrequited love syndrome. Also liked him, but he should have yelled at Clary more for being a little brat. Jocelyn: a.k.a. Coma mom. That's how she spends the whole book. And ends the book. I felt cheated. Valentine: The big bad. More like Bad-Guy-From-a-Can. He's not really menacing at all, or even memorable. Even his name sucks. I'm gonna call him Daddy V from now on because for some strange reason I can take that more seriously than Valentine. Who names their child that anyway? That should handle all the characters, which I enjoyed writing about more than I thought. Now, onto the next biggest complain that I've read about and couldn't help noticing: the metaphors! Bum-bum-bum! I'll just list a few off: \"The night sky rippled overhead...\" How does the sky ripple when you aren't looking at it through anything? \"The moon hung like a locket over the city...\" So it just hanging there wasn't good enough? \"She wondered how often he let glimpses of his real self peek through the facade that was as hard and shiny as the coat of lacquer on one of her mother's Japanese boxes.\" This one broke my brain. \"... was black as velvet.\" Oh, honey. Didn't you know velvet comes in many different colors? To describe a mausoleum: \"... like an iceberg off the bow of the Titanic.\" To refer to a restaurant building: \"... like a collapsed souffle.\" \"... the lights of Manhattan burning like cold jewels.\" This would be a moment where Clare using glittering would make sense. \"The apple tasted green and cool.\" How do you taste green? \"She felt a bright surge of shame that burst behind her eyelids like a small sun.\" If shame looks like the sun to you, Clary, why do you still have eyes? \"... yowling like a foghorn.\" Does this woman think about what she says? This cat sounds possessed. Okay, I'll stop there before I start crying. I swear, Clare doesn't think about what she's actually putting down. Everything in her world \"sparks,\" \"gleams,\" \"glints,\" or \"glitters.\" It sounds painful to look at. When I read the descriptions and think about what it would look like visually, it sounds like Tinkerbell covered Clare's world in pixie dust. Instead of making vampires sparkle, Clare made friggin' everything sparkle! Eyes, bracelets, bracers, weapons, random objects in the corner. It stopped making sense. I don't even want to know how many times she uses those words. I kept getting deja vu with those words as often as I saw \"like\" or \"as.\" This chick needs an editor. Plot wise it isn't much better. Three objects... blah, blah. Special snowflake girl... yadda, yadda. I actually got bored in the middle of the climax because Clare foreshadows with a brick. I guessed the ending at the beginning. Seriously, she lacks subtlety. But I want to mention one main plot twist that should have made me gasp and drop my Kindle to clutch at my heart. Yup, you guessed it, dear reader. The Daddy V reveal. When I was reading the scenes with pacified Jace, I couldn't buy it. It became apparent to me that Clare had manipulated her character so it could suit the moment. There was no natural character progression to fragile, doubting Jace from jackass Jace. This is how the scene should have went: DADDY V: Jace, I am your father. JACE: This isn't Star Wars . I want a DNA test. I know we use magic and all that, but science still exists. Hell, there's probably some magical DNA test. I mean, a couple of items and some convenient circumstances does not the truth make. Wow, I just sounded intelligent there. Okay, I was pretty liberal with that, but I think I made my point. That, of course, leads to the whole incest-love thing. I read Martin's Song of Fire and Ice before they were a cable show. Nothing will beat the creepiness that is that incest-romance. Well, nothing that I've come across. Then there are the inconsistencies: Mark scars are sometimes described as silver, sometimes as white. Luke's dagger, then sword, then dagger. The werewolves are strong enough to break through boarded up windows a couple stories up, but not a roof top door. Light from the open front door doesn't affect Abaddon. Only the light coming through the skylight. Which, when I read it, I had to assume was dirty or frosted. She never clarified. Yeah. Cassandra Clare, by royal decree, you need an editor. There are a thousand other things I could go into like how all the characters have the same wit that isn't funny. Or I could go into detail all of the inexplicable rages Clary flies into. Or mention that Clare actually has Daddy V monologue and throw his head back to laugh. But I'll stop before I find myself bald because I've torn out my hair from looking at my notes. Before I stop, let me put this in another perspective. As an unpublished writer who reads the work of other unpublished writers, I have come across much better. It's books like these that make me scratch my head. I understand if you want to blow an afternoon reading cotton candy fluff, you know, nothing really special, but there is stuff out there that has characters that are genuinely lovable. And the characters are what really matter because that is what the reader connects to. That is why Cassandra Clare's City of Bones got one star. In the end, I stopped caring. If you liked this review, I've got more: The Original Mortal Instruments Trilogy City of Ashes City of Glass The Infernal Devices Clockwork Angel Clockwork Prince ...more Reread: January, 2016 1st Read : July, 2014 Rereading my favorite parts in this book gives me the same feels! Just like the first time, it's still so amazing. I am so happy to revisit the beautiful Shadowhunters world and enjoy the characters and the fantastic scenes. Jace, Clary, Alec, Isabelle, Simon, Magnus, Hodge, Luke-- I desperately love these characters and I miss them so much. The Midnight Flower (Chapter 17)-- oh, how I miss this scene. I always get giddy whenever I think about it and now Reread: January, 2016 1st Read : July, 2014 Rereading my favorite parts in this book gives me the same feels! Just like the first time, it's still so amazing. I am so happy to revisit the beautiful Shadowhunters world and enjoy the characters and the fantastic scenes. Jace, Clary, Alec, Isabelle, Simon, Magnus, Hodge, Luke-- I desperately love these characters and I miss them so much. The Midnight Flower (Chapter 17)-- oh, how I miss this scene. I always get giddy whenever I think about it and now after rereading it, gaaahh I felt a warm, gooey pile of mush in my heart. Really shipping these two! And that part when Simon (view spoiler) [became a rat! (hide spoiler) ] LOL. So many great memories in this book that made me feel nostalgic! It's so nice to be reminded of how amazing this book is. *sighs happily* The Mortal Instruments is one of my all-time favorite series. Always has been, always will be. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more WELL. WELL. SO MUCH TO SAY. To start, my rating is 3.5, and I will say I really enjoyed this book... but I did also have quite a few issues with it.. let's discuss! Supernatural/Paranormal is not my genre. It's not that I CAN'T enjoy them, it's that I have a lot of troubles enjoying them, so when I pick one up it has to be mind blowingly great for me to get into it or else I just struggle, flail, and fail. Keeping this in mind, this is my City of Bones story: I received this book during Christmas WELL. WELL. SO MUCH TO SAY. To start, my rating is 3.5, and I will say I really enjoyed this book... but I did also have quite a few issues with it.. let's discuss! Supernatural/Paranormal is not my genre. It's not that I CAN'T enjoy them, it's that I have a lot of troubles enjoying them, so when I pick one up it has to be mind blowingly great for me to get into it or else I just struggle, flail, and fail. Keeping this in mind, this is my City of Bones story: I received this book during Christmas of 2011 - over a year ago! I didn't buy it because it necessarily interested me, because it was screaming my name.. no, I picked it up because the booktubers that I was watching would not stop raving about it. Happily, during Christmas break, I picked it up. My expectations were OFF THE ROOF. This book, it was going to be amazing. The best I'd ever read. And after 130 pages I couldn't take it anymore. I hated it. The world was so cheesy, the characters so fake, the pacing so slow.. WHY DID PEOPLE LOVE THIS, I DIDN'T UNDERSTAND! I gave up. I put that book down until a few days ago, more than a year later, I for no reason at all felt like picking it up. Waiting a year was the perfect thing. For one, I wasn't picking this book up because I was feeling pressured, and most importantly I wasn't picking it up with high expectations .. in fact, I had the lowest expectations because I remembered hating it before. I took my time with this books, I read it at face value looking past its flaws and just enjoying it for what it is - a fun story. Here we get to the juice of things: I liked the constant action. It seemed like every single chapter was a hole new adventure - these characters never slept they just kept fighting and being warriors and that was exciting! I liked the characters, they were interesting and all served their purpose. I liked the world - it's always cool to imagine a whole new world hidden in our everyday world. Cassandra Clare really did weave quite an intricate universe. It was cool, and actiony, and fun. It was fun. However, I also had a lot of problems with it. I felt that SO much was going on that the a lot of important things were being missed and it seemed a bit ridiculous - there's no way all of this happened in the course of one week! There's no way that these kids didn't need serious hospital care or at least a freaking nap! I also felt that the characters where really shallow. We have the main strong female protagonist who just stumbles into this world. The strong, reclusive, beautiful love interest. The nerdy, super smart, super kind, \"secretly\" in love with the main character best friend. If you know me at ALL, you know that character development is what I live for in books and I felt like this book had NONE. Finally, I think Cassandra Clare tried to jam way too much into this book. This will probably be solved if I continue reading the series, but I barely understood what the tattoos were for before she was talking about what the stele did.. too much stuff without enough solid and grounded explanation. I also felt that a couple things, on this note, were unrealistic because so much was happening so quickly. Like, I still don't understand how Jace so quickly abandoned father #1 for father #2. AND DON'T GET ME STARTED ON HOW CLARY AND SIMON JUST COMPLETELY ACCEPT THIS WORLD. Like, vampires? Werewolves? Warlocks? Shadowhunters? PSH, no big deal! I've known about them for a whole week! Finally finally, I had a really big problem with the end. No spoilers, but for people who HAVE read this book.. the \"change\" in Jace and Clary's relationship seriously grossed me out. Oh! Finally finally finally, I felt a lot of things were REALLY predictable. Yeah, obviously Valentine is that. And yeah, Jace would be said to be that. And Hodge was that way. Yeah, yeah. Like I said, I did enjoy this book, but on a different level as other books. I enjoyed it simply for the story, simply as a fun tale that excited me and had me going in a new world with new adventures and new ideas. ...more 4 Whole New World Stars \u201cThose girls on the other side of the car are staring at you.\u201d Jace assumed an air of mellow gratification. \u201cOf course they are,\u201d he said. \u201cI am stunningly attractive.\u201d \u201cHaven\u2019t you ever heard that modesty is an attractive trait?\u201d \u201cOnly from ugly people,\u201d Jace confided. \u201cThe meek may inherit the earth, but at the moment it belongs to the conceited. Like me.\u201d-Clary and Jace Okay so the other day I was watching the movie The Mortal Instruments City of Bones. That got me want 4 Whole New World Stars \u201cThose girls on the other side of the car are staring at you.\u201d Jace assumed an air of mellow gratification. \u201cOf course they are,\u201d he said. \u201cI am stunningly attractive.\u201d \u201cHaven\u2019t you ever heard that modesty is an attractive trait?\u201d \u201cOnly from ugly people,\u201d Jace confided. \u201cThe meek may inherit the earth, but at the moment it belongs to the conceited. Like me.\u201d-Clary and Jace Okay so the other day I was watching the movie The Mortal Instruments City of Bones. That got me wanting to read the books to see what happens next, but I only owned the first two books. Two days later I was at Goodwill looking for books and they had the other 4 books for 1.00 each and I thought ahh it was meant to be lol! I really liked this book. Much more than the movie but that's nothing new for me books always seem better than movies. I loved Jace's snarky smart mouth self. I felt bad for the childhood he had. He didn't show his feelings and tried to keep everyone out of his heart. Because of his abusive childhood he has a lot of issues making him the perfect damaged bad boy. I really liked Clary too. She had a lot thrown at her. Learning the ones she loved lied and kept things from her. Her mom is missing. Thinking the man she loved like a dad betrayed her. And the world is full of monsters she never knew existed. She herself is different then the normal human she though she was. That is a lot for a 15 year old girl, but I think she handled it well. \u201cIf you\u2019re angry, just say it. Don\u2019t act like nothing ever touches you. It\u2019s like you never feel anything at all.\u201d-Clary I liked the layout for this paranormal world. I felt the plot was good. I did feel it slowed down a bit at times with all the details but that's understandable since the first book in any paranormal series has the job of laying out the world, creatures, and their powers. I liked the secondary characters Alec, Isabelle, Magnus, Luke,and Simon. I hated the cowardly Hodge more than I hated the evil bad guy Valentine. Although I did hate Valentine as well, but at least Valentine was in your face with his evil. Hodge was a backstabbing pos coward. I hate cowards. I was really glad this book was lower on the romance as in this book the MC is 15 and 16, but already I felt their connection. The bomb that was dropped at the end of the book about (view spoiler) [ Clary and Jace being brother and sister (hide spoiler) ] I just don't believe it. It would be to cruel. There better be some twist coming to fix that because I want them together. A very entertaining read. I am on to the next book! \u201cUnfortunately, Lady of the Haven, my one true love remains myself.\u201d Dorothea roared at that. \u201cAt least,\u201d she said, \u201cyou don\u2019t have to worry about rejection, Jace Wayland.\u201d \u201cNot necessarily. I turn myself down occasionally, just to keep it interesting.\u201d-Jace and Dorothea [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Luke turned around. His eyes, very blue behind his glasses, rested on her with a look of affection. \"Clary, you're an artist, like your mother. That means you see the world in ways that other people don't. It's your gift, to see the beauty and the horror in ordinary things. It doesn't make you crazy --just different. There's nothing wrong with being different.\" City of Bones is the first installment in The Mortal Instruments series and also the first published book by Cassandra Clare, now an ach Luke turned around. His eyes, very blue behind his glasses, rested on her with a look of affection. \"Clary, you're an artist, like your mother. That means you see the world in ways that other people don't. It's your gift, to see the beauty and the horror in ordinary things. It doesn't make you crazy --just different. There's nothing wrong with being different.\" City of Bones is the first installment in The Mortal Instruments series and also the first published book by Cassandra Clare, now an achieving New York Times Best Selling Author who is widely known for her young adult/urban fantasy novels. The first book of the series brings great adventure, the right amount of romance and excellent word-developing, ultimately, leading to a successful beginning. City of Bones tells the tale of an ordinary teenage girl, Clary Fray, who suddenly got the Sight to see things that others could not. Murders, demons, Shadowhunters. She was dragged into a world that she never thought existed and then gradually realized that she was in fact part of that world. Her heart filled with confusion and vengeance, when her mother got attacked and went missing, Clary was determined to find out the secret past that was hidden from her and to rescue those she loved from the hands of evil. Fifteen-year-old protagonist Clary Fray goes to the Pandemonium Club with her best friend, Simon Lewis, where she sees a blue haired boy and a black haired girl sneak into a storeroom, pursued by two other boys; one armed with what appears to be a knife. She sends Simon for help and herself follows the group into the storeroom, where she witnesses the blue haired \"boy\" being killed; whereupon he vanishes from the room, with the explanation that demons \"return to their home dimensions when they die.\" Simon enters the storeroom with the bouncer in tow and questions why she is there alone; and realizing no one else can see the others, she mumbles an apology. When she returns home, her mother, Jocelyn, scolds her for staying out so late. The next day, Jocelyn announces that they are moving from New York City to the country for the summer where Jocelyn's best friend, Luke, has a house. Clary, upset by the unexpected move, confides in Simon that she knows almost nothing about her mother or her entire family. Simon mentions seeing thin, white scars on Jocelyn's back and shoulders, but Clary dismisses this. They go to a poetry reading where Clary sees Jace, one of the boys she saw, who privately tells Clary about demon-hunters, called Shadowhunters or Nephilim, and claims Clary is not a mundane (ordinary human). Clary answers a call from Jocelyn, who frantically warns her not to come home and to tell Luke that \"he\" has found her. The call ends abruptly. After failure to telephone back, Clary returns to her house and finds it in disarray, with her mother gone. She is attacked by another demon, which she kills with Jace's sensor; and Jace brings Clary to the \"institute\": the local headquarters of the Shadowhunters, where she is introduced to two other hunters, Isabelle and Alec, and the tutor, Hodge. Jace and Clary return to Clary's house and meet her neighbor, who has a teleportation portal. To find her mother, Clary, followed by Jace, rushes through the portal, and they land at Luke's bookstore and find Simon, in search of Clary. The three hide inside the store. Luke returns with two men, Pangborn and Blackwell, whom Valentine sent to interrogate Luke about the Mortal Cup: a talisman sought by both parties. Luke claims ignorance of where Jocelyn hid the Mortal Cup, and refuses to negotiate with them or interfere with Valentine's plans. Clary and Jace, accompanied by Simon, tell Hodge what they learned, and Hodge tells them about the Circle: a group of Shadowhunters that Valentine formed to eliminate all Downworlders (vampire, werewolves, faeries, warlocks, and others), which Jocelyn, Valentine's wife, was forced to join. Clary and Jace go to the Silent City to speak to the Silent Brothers, who tell them that a block in her mind prevents her from remembering the Shadow World; itself placed by Magnus Bane. Isabelle meanwhile has found an invitation in the demon's pocket (the one that Jace had killed at the Pandemonium Club), to a warlock's party hosted by Magnus Bane. At the party, Clary meets Magnus Bane, who says his spell is too complex to remove but will fade naturally if it is not re-enforced every two years, and was placed at the behest of Jocelyn. During the party, Simon ignores Isabelle's warning and drinks a blue liquid that transforms him into a rat. Vampires take him thinking Simon was one of their own; but Clary and Jace rescue him, and restore him to human form. That night, Jace takes Clary to the Institute's greenhouse on a midnight picnic to celebrate Clary's sixteenth birthday. \"I didn\u2019t damage you.\u201d It was Magnus\u2019s turn to interrupt, his lips curled back angrily to show sharp white teeth. \u201cEvery teenager in the world feels like that, feels broken or out of place, different somehow, royalty mistakenly born into a family of peasants. The difference in your case is that it\u2019s true. You are different. Maybe not better\u2014but different. And it\u2019s no picnic being different. You want to know what it\u2019s like when your parents are good churchgoing folk and you happen to be born with the devil\u2019s mark?\u201d He pointed at his eyes, fingers splayed. \u201cWhen your father flinches at the sight of you and your mother hangs herself in the barn, driven mad by what she\u2019s done? When I was ten, my father tried to drown me in the creek. I lashed out at him with everything I had\u2014burned him where he stood. I went to the fathers of the church eventually, for sanctuary. They hid me. They say that pity\u2019s a bitter thing, but it\u2019s better than hate. When I found out what I was really, only half a human being, I hated myself. Anything\u2019s better than that.\" As her memories emerge, Clary deduces that the Mortal Cup is hidden in one of Madame Dorothea's tarot cards. Clary retrieves the Cup, but a demon possessed Madame Dorothea attempts to take it. Aided by Simon, they escape and return to the Institute where Hodge hands over the Cup and an unconscious Jace to Valentine. Hodge flees, pursued by Clary. Hodge attacks her in an alleyway, but she is unexpectedly saved by Luke, who is a werewolf. While Luke's werewolf pack attack Valentine's followers, Clary locates her mother, who is unconscious, and also finds Jace, who says Valentine identified Jace himself as his son; this dismays both Jace and Clary. Valentine entices Jace to return to Idris with him. Jace refuses, and Valentine escapes through a portal with the Cup, smashing the portal behind him. Clary Fray is a little over 5 feet tall, thin, has bright red hair, green eyes, freckles, and described as looking nearly identical to her mother. Clary grew up oblivious to the shadow world and her real heritage. Jocelyn, her mother, believes that Clary should have a mundane to shield her from Jocelyn's past. She raised Clary in New York, with the help of Luke. Clary is an artist, like her mother, often drawing her emotions in pictures - her version of a diary. She lives a very typical teenage life until her mother is kidnapped. Throughout the remainder of the series, Clary embarks on a quest to help her mother while adjusting to a life as a Shadowhunter. She and Jace eventually develop a mutual attraction; although the revelation that they are siblings dashes their romantic hopes. At the age of 10, Jace Wayland is orphaned because of his father was murdered by members of the Circle. He is then sent to the New York Insitute to live with the Lightwoods and Hodge Starkweather. There he is trained along side Isabelle and <---C>Alec Lightwood</---C>. Jace grows up to be cold and arrogant to those around him. He rejects the idea of love and only believes in the art of war. Before the death of his father, Jace was brutally trained to be an expert in the arts of war. He is said to be the best Shadowhunter of his age. Jace is described as having golden hair, eyes, and skin. He is attracted to Clary, but becomes horrified after discovering that they are siblings. Simon Lewis is Clary's human best friend and essentially only friend for about 10 years. Simon only has three main interests; his band, keeping up with everything nerdy, and Clary. He is secretly in love with Clary, though she does not appear to reciprocate those feelings and is oblivious to them until he directly tells her. He is jealous that Clary shows a larger amount of affection for Jace than himself. He becomes a vampire in the second book. His loyalty to Clary is unnerving even after discovering the relationship the Clary and Jace begin to grow, Simon stays by Clary. He is described to be a tall slender 16 year old teenage boy with black shaggy hair and brown eyes. Isabelle Lightwood is described as tall and incredibly beautiful, with black hair and eyes. She is daughter to Robert and Maryse Lightwood and sister to Max and Alexander Lightwood. Isabelle's priorities are simple: family, The Clave, and herself. She is determined to be strong and fight whoever in order to obtain what she wants. She is ruthless when it comes to protecting her family. On the surface she may seem like she self absorbed, throughout out the novel she grows into a much more complex character. Alec Lightwood is the eldest son of the Lightwoods; therefore he carries much of the responsibility of the siblings. As a just turned adult, Alec is expected to take care of his siblings and look over the Institute while his parents are away. Throughout the book he is constantly struggling with what is right by his family and friends and what is right to the law. Alec's self esteem is very low at the beginning of the novel which makes him lash out at Clary and other characters. He has black hair and blue eyes. Alec is a closeted homosexual, with the exception of Clary and Isabelle, and claims to be in love with Jace. He is jealous of Clary over Jace's affection for her. The night sky wheeled above her, scattered with stars like a handful of loose diamonds. It was not black but a clear dark blue, the color of oncoming dawn. They were standing on a bare slate roof turreted with brick chimneys. An old water tower, black with neglect, stood on a raised platform at one end; a heavy tarpaulin concealed a lumpy pile of lumber at the other. Mrs Clare completely amazed me with her unique world, including her writing and storytelling style. The writing of City of Bones was amazing, joyful and relaxing to read. Her writings are descriptive and detailed but not to the point of being overly verbose and redundant. The language is modern and witty which suits the story very well and often makes me laugh. I think what especially made the story gripping for me is that it flows with such little effort, so natural that you don't even realize how much time has past or how many chapters you have read through, it just keeps getting more and more interesting. There is the occasional humor, which is done correctly, and I did laugh out loud to it. \"Jesus!\" Luke exclaimed. \"Actually, it's just me,\" said Simon. \"Although I've been told the resemblance is startling.\" Additionally, I was particularly fond of her worldbuidling skills. It is important, in my opinion, that fantasy novels equipped themselves with a broad and complex background setting especially for series so that there are more potentials and spaces to maneuver and explore. I love the world introduced in City of Bones. I don't know the whole world just yet, but I understand enough of it, and I keep Imagining what it could be and how many mysteries and plot twisters can come out of it. It's quite fascinating. There was no infodumps, and the information was revealed during the right pages/chapters. Luke\u2019s long explanation, which took up an entire chapter, was an infodump, but he had to tell the entire story in order to it to make sense. It was at first almost as if he hadn't wanted to kiss her. His mouth was hard on hers, unyielding; then he put both arms around her and pulled her against him. His lips softened. She could feel the rapid beat of his heart, taste the sweetness of apples still on his mouth. She wound her hands into his hair, as she'd wanted to do since the first time she'd seen him. His hair curled around her fingers, silky and fine. Her heart was hammering, and there was a rushing sound in her ears, like beating wings. As for the characters, I enjoyed having Clary's company. She is strong spirited and very brave. Although she is a little vulnerable at this point, not being able to fight much and whatnot, she has changed a lot and developed determinations to fight alongside her friends and to protect the people she loves. Most of the time, I find the protagonist annoying and whiny, but Clary was different. She was an enjoyable character to read about, who kept the book going. Jace, the main male character and the love interest of Clary, also has some interesting attributes. I would admit though that I was a little surprised when I read the final chapter in which his real identity was revealed, but there are still lots of mysteries in his backstory as well as the past Shadowhunter generation. He is arrogant, but funny \u2013his relationship with Clary feels forced and not necessary, but since this is not one of those \"love at the first sight\" story, I will see how it plays out in the long run. Tell me, is he always really rude, or does he save that for mundanes? \"Oh, he's rude o everyone,\" said Isabelle airily. \"It's what makes him so damn sexy. That, and he's killed more demons than anyone else his age.\" It\u2019s difficult to pick my favorite character, but I found Simon to be the most relatable. His reaction to the Shadowhunter world felt the sincerest, and his humor was a nice addition to the instalment. He is a great friend towards Clary, and supported her decisions. I also loved Alec\u2019s conflicted character: he in interesting man, and is the exactly opposite of Jace despite being his Parabatai. Lastly, Magnus, the sassy and fabulous warlock, fit perfectly with the book, and was definitely one of the many highlights. The romance was alright, but didn\u2019t affect my love for the book. Clary didn\u2019t keep thinking and talking about him all the time, which would have decreased my enjoyment of the book. There was more communication about the issues than the personal/love talk. It is obvious that they are destined to be together in some sort of way, but despite the importance of the romance, it didn\u2019t remove the focus of the plot. I truly hope it doesn\u2019t turn into a love triangle. Simon is better as a friend, and even though I didn\u2019t buy the Jace and Clary romance. The ending, when it was revealed they were siblings, was an unexpected plot twist. The main couple in a book usually have the forbidden love or love triangle, but this was unexpected regardless of the signs. There is something more to the story, which I believe will be explored in the future books. \"I didn't think you liked me all that much.\" Isabelle's brightness faded and she looked down at her silvery toes. \"I didn't I did either,\" she admitted. \"But when I went to look for you and Jace, and you were gone...\" Her voice trailed off. \"I wasn't just worried about him; I was worried about you, too. There's something so... reassuring about you. And Jace is so much better when you're around.\" Isabella\u2019s friendship with Clary at the end of the book was heartwarming. I was scared she was going to turn into the bitch/rival of Clary, so it was relieving to see them getting along. Alec and Jace's friendship was also important to the story. They are parabatai's, and didn't receive enough acknowledgement. Alec is an underrated characters, whom Jace doesn't offer enough gratitude towards. Alec laughed. \"Do you remember\u2014,\" he began, and launched into a story that contained so many mysterious names and proper nouns that Clary didn't even bother trying to follow it. She was looking at Alec instead, watching him as he talked to Jace. There was a kinetic, almost feverish energy to him that hadn't been there before. Something about Jace sharpened him, brought him into focus. If she were going to draw them together, she thought, she would make Jace a little blurry, while Alec stood out, all sharp, clear planes and angles. The beginning of the book was engaging, and got straight to the plot. However, it didn\u2019t feel rushed, and was flowing at an excellent pace. There was no narrating about Clary\u2019s life at the start, which I was thankful for, as it happens in most books. Furthermore, I still got to know Clary without the infodumping and her personality was perfect to be the lead protagonist. There are a lot of passages of truly witty, and often sarcastic, banter and it comes across as naturally humorous, not contrived. Simon and Jace were the undisputed kings of witty repartee, especially between them. Development of the world is extremely important in a world, and has to be done correctly to seem believable. Mrs Clare explained the world well, in a way that didn\u2019t feel dragged out but enough information to be understood. There are still many wonders in the world that I can\u2019t wait to uncover the in the further instalments. The mythology is rich, blending elements modern-normal day elements with new elements and explanations. It creates a story that makes the existence of the supernatural entirely believable. The mythology is based around that of angels and demons, but incorporates the existence of werewolves, warlocks, faery, and vampires right along with them. A whole new world is created right along the one that we live in. I know the history of the book and Cassandra Clare; hence I know the prior existence of her Harry Potter fanfictions. While reading, I never found it to be similar to the Harry Potter books, but rather Star Wars. Clary and Jace reminds me of Luke and Leia, who develop crushes on one another before finding out they are siblings. Both of them have an evil father, Darth Vadar/Valentine. Where does the Harry Potter comparison come from? Ultimately, I\u2019m going to continue with the series. It has been a long time before I have been this enthusiastic about a book, and it feels incredible. I have missed enjoying a book this much, and I\u2019m looking forward to reading the rest. I must admit, I have watched the first two episodes of the TV show, Shadowhunters, and I liked the book better. However, Alec gets more screen time than he does in the book, but Jace horrible; he is not like that in the book at all. The institute was too modern, and they felt more like spies than shadowhunters. Well, I will still be continuing with the series. In conclusion, The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones amazed me with its action-packed storytelling, detailed world-developing and loveable character. It was an exciting book for me to read, and reminded me of the positive feeling of falling in love with books. The universe was amazing, and the characters felt extremely relatable, especially Simon, and I can't wait to read the rest of the books. Clary wasn't sure what she'd expected -exclamations of delight, perhaps a smattering of applause. Instead there was silence, broken only when Jace said, \"Somehow, I thought it would be bigger.\" Clary looked at the Cup in her hand. It was the size, perhaps, of an ordinary wineglass, only much heavier. Power thrummed through it, like blood through living veins. \"It's a perfectly nice size,\" she said indignantly. \"Oh, it's big enough,\" he said patronizingly, \"but somehow I was expecting something\u2026 you know.\" He gestured with his hands, indicating something roughly the size of a house cat. \"It's the Mortal Cup, Jace, not the Mortal Toilet Bowl,\" said Isabelle. ...more \u201cIt means 'Shadowhunters: Looking Better in Black Than the Widows of our Enemies Since 1234'.\u201d this is one of those books . One of those books that, when you pick it up, suddenly there's a shit storm of people saying it's bad and insisting you don't read it. Suddenly pages and pages of book related controversy are brought up. With this book ? Totally get it. I'm not gonna say I don't agree with the controversy because in alot of respects I do Straight up: Cassandra Clare is not one of my favour \u201cIt means 'Shadowhunters: Looking Better in Black Than the Widows of our Enemies Since 1234'.\u201d this is one of those books . One of those books that, when you pick it up, suddenly there's a shit storm of people saying it's bad and insisting you don't read it. Suddenly pages and pages of book related controversy are brought up. With this book ? Totally get it. I'm not gonna say I don't agree with the controversy because in alot of respects I do Straight up: Cassandra Clare is not one of my favourite authors - and I hate to make it personal but it IS on a personal level because it's due to some of the things she's said and done - to readers, other authors, other writers. (and if you wanna read about this I suggest hitting up google because there's alot written about it. google if your friend) I know what you're thinking: BITCH ! if you don't like the author and agree with the shit talked about it why do you like it so much ?!!?!?! one. simple. word. --- nostalgia \u201cThe boy never cried again, and he never forgot what he'd learned: that to love is to destroy, and that to be loved is to be the one destroyed.\u201d Throwback to like, 2010. I walk into the library. I walk out the library, holding this book for the first time. The next few weeks for 14 year old me are a downward spiral of binge reading. I took this book in the car and on the bus, I read it in class, I read it late at night with a torch because bedtime was past and I was hiding from my mum. THIS IS ONE OF THE FIRST SERIES I REMEMBER DEVOURING ON THE SAME LEVEL I DID HARRY POTTER. it is hard for me to rate this book subjectively . I KNOW it's not the best book ever written. But I also know this series does get genuinely better then this first book. Like, can I rate this higherbecause I know what it leads to ? And even if I look at it now and think: the characters are a little one dimensional, and the plot is slow and there's some problematic elements - does that take away from how much I LOVED IT the first time I read this? Like, this series did things for me. The first time I understood why I liked girls and boys and had a name for that was because of Magnus. MAGNUS GAVE ME THAT. This book was the one that made me go out and find more books because I needed to recapture that magic of being totally immersed in a book again. The first book I ever bought with my own money was City of Lost Souls. SO YEAH I HAD A SHITTON OF TROUBLE RATING THIS. And I kinda struggle with copping criticism on it too. There are SO MANY criticisms of this book, and half of them I just ,,, # same. But also shut up this is my childhood you're dissing. Speaking of the book itself I don't think it's awful or great. I genuinely like the world, I think really well developed and has so many elements of worldbuilding that I like. I like that it has a developed government, religious system, rules, culture and custom. The integration of so many paranormal elements: werewolves, vampires, shadowhunters, faeries - all in one never felt cliche to me, even in the reread. I like that each segment of the downworld has strong politics and complex relationships within themselves and externally. It feels like a moving world . Even thought you focus on the shadowhunters, you know there are things doing on in the downworld - that it's not sitting stagnant even if it's off-screen. I struggle to rate the characters because they are not the best in this book . BUt I know they get much better Alec is so mean ! BUT HE GETS SO BETTER. Izzy is a bitch - but she becomes such a good friend and so supportive. Jace is an asshole ! - he learns to drop the huge walls around him and makes genuine effort to apologise and make up for past behaviour. Clary is annoying !! lmao ok true tho. Oh, and Cassandra Clare's writing. It's not the GREATEST, but I mean, it's got soo much better. In the years she's been writing her style has really developed and I think it's important we see this so we know where she's come from and where she is now. \u201cWhat's this?\" he demanded, looking from Clary to his companions, as if they might know what she was doing there. \"It's a girl,\" Jace said,recovering his composure. \"Surely you've seen girls before, Alec. Your sister Isabelle is one.\u201d Look, it comes down to this. City of Bones, and even TMI is not the best series ever . But something about it is still so important to me. I love these characters, and I love this world. We all have pleasures that are a little guilty - I suppose this is mine. I would rate this a 3.5* but honestly sentimentality forces me to bump it up to a 4*. This series will always be important - even if I pick this up in a few years and hate it with a passion I won't be able to change the fact it was important to me when I first read it. All I know for sure is Alec Lightwood is a precious, beautiful human and he must be protected at all costs and I love him ...more I will always love this series because of Jace and Cassie Clare's amazing flare for dialogue. Too bad the movie (and TV show) didn't get my favorite character (you guessed it: Jace) right:/ Last year, I read\u00a0Clockwork Angel\u00a0by Cassandra Clare. It was okay, nothing special, yet it seemed to be a real darling in the YA world. I\u2019d be hanging out in the YA section at bookshops and seeing girls squealing about\u00a0The Mortal Instruments, I\u2019d buy books similar to\u00a0TMI\u00a0or\u00a0The Infernal Devices, and the clerk would tell me I should check Ms. Clare\u2019s books out too\u2026 So eventually, I got around to readingCity of Bones, the first in the series. I really didn\u2019t enjoy it. It starts out strong enough, Last year, I read\u00a0Clockwork Angel\u00a0by Cassandra Clare. It was okay, nothing special, yet it seemed to be a real darling in the YA world. I\u2019d be hanging out in the YA section at bookshops and seeing girls squealing about\u00a0The Mortal Instruments, I\u2019d buy books similar to\u00a0TMI\u00a0or\u00a0The Infernal Devices, and the clerk would tell me I should check Ms. Clare\u2019s books out too\u2026 So eventually, I got around to readingCity of Bones, the first in the series. I really didn\u2019t enjoy it. It starts out strong enough, gradually introducing us to the world of magical creatures, children of the night, witches, warlocks, demons, and those who slay them. Clary, our main character, goes to a nightclub with her friend but stumbles across something she shouldn\u2019t see: kids her age slaying a demon and talking in a snippy manner to each other. And she also shouldn\u2019t even be able to see them, considering they use \u2018glamours\u2019 and various runic markings to make sure that regular humans (or Mundies/Mundanes/Muggles/Mortie-Muds/whatever the fuck you want to call them, it\u2019s a massiveHarry Potter\u00a0rip-off either way) can\u2019t see them. So Clary goes home, then goes out again, then comes back, only to find that her apartment has been ransacked. And since it\u2019s a YA novel, this happens right after a tiff with her mother. While she\u2019s trying to find mummy dearest, a low-level demon attacks her, and she\u2019s rescued by one of the people she saw that night: Jace Wayland. His kind are called Shadowhunters, and they\u2019re descendants of the Nephilim, or something like that. What follows on from that is Clary trying to uncover the mystery behind her mother\u2019s disappearance, learning about the creatures of the otherworld who co-exist with us in secret, and discovering that she, le gasp, is the daughter of a Shadowhunter! And still needs to look out for her mum, so away we go on more demon-slaying adventures that seem to take place in night clubs, alleyways, and industrial lofts! Also, because this is a YA novel that likes to go off on a tangent, there are a few times where the overarching plot is sacrificed so we can, you know, have Jace dump his backstory on us. Or have them sit in a greenhouse together. Or we can have a werewolf explain his life story and his relation to Clary in an entire, boring as hell chapter. It\u2019s a load of ideas cobbled badly together. The characters really got on my nerves, unfortunately. Clary just didn\u2019t do it for me as a heroine. I don\u2019t quite understand why, because even though she\u2019s pretty much a blank slate character the reader is supposed to project onto, we have a few things in common: short temper, we both like reading, we both like watching anime, what have you\u2026 But having her as the narrator just really got on my nerves. Maybe it was the fact that her thoughts were like a pinball machine at times. There\u2019s one scene where there\u2019s a massive flock of vampires crowded around them, but Clary and Jace had the good thinking to take a hostage. She looks around at the vampires and takes a paragraph to ponder about whether or not there are ugly or fat vampires in the world, because they\u2019re all so beautiful. What the hell? And the first time she sets foot in a church, it makes her hark back to an anime she saw that had an evil vampire priest, which doesn\u2019t give her much confidence about the church\u2019s safety? Yes, just like that: PING PING PING\u00a0\u201cAnime vampires in churches!\u201d PING PING PING\u00a0\u201cDo vampires turn people based on their looks?\u201d\u00a0PING PING PING\u201cManga!\u201d\u00a0PING PING PING\u00a0\u201cWarlocks and witches are sterile?\u201d\u00a0PING PING PING\u00a0\u201cJace looks so cool right now!\u201d PING PING PING\u00a0\u201cI wonder if all Shadowhunters are beautiful, because I\u2019m most certainly not!\u201d\u00a0Eurgh. Alec and Isabel got such little time to be developed I hardly noticed that they were there sometimes. One thing that really did bother me, though, was Clary asking Isabel if Alec was gay. Isabel asks Clary how she knew, and then forbids her from telling Jace or anyone else, because being gay is apparently frowned upon in Shadowhunter society. Just like that. Is there any reason\u2026? Is it some kind of religious quagmire to Shadowhunters? Would Alec be cast out of society? Would he be forced to stop being demon-slaying bros with Jace? No? You\u2019re never going to mention it again? Oh, okay, then. Jace was an arrogant arsehole, and I just found him completely unbearable to read. All of his snarky comments didn\u2019t make me laugh, they just made me roll my eyes in how obvious Ms. Clare was being in trying to create a sarcastic, cold-hearted bad boy brat. The villains just\u2026 really didn\u2019t do anything for me either. Valentine wasn\u2019t scary, and the reveal near the end that a certain character really was selling information to the other side felt really rushed. It was just like in\u00a0Clockwork Angel, where we had to suffer through a rather slow third act and were then thrown into a hurried explanation about the main villain and his motives in the last fifty or so pages. I was so bored that I was skim-reading it. And I rarely do that. It became more of an obligation rather than something I enjoyed reading. I just wanted to plough through it and put the whole sorry mess behind me. I apologise, fans of Ms. Clare\u2019s work, I just don\u2019t enjoy it. She\u2019s just another Holly Black to me. I do have Clockwork Prince on my reading list, yes, but I didn\u2019t enjoy the first book of the original series, but quite liked the spin-off, so I guess you could call it my guilty pleasure. 1/5. ...more", "Title": "City of Bones"},
