{"Comments": "There are many reviews already of this book, and I did wonder whether the world needed any more. But I disagree so strongly with some of the opinions expressed that I'm afraid I have to exercise my right to reply.<---F> Two things in particular stand out</---F>. Let me deal with the simpler one first. Some people seem appalled that the author is putting the guilt for this dreadful tragedy on the shoulders of a young girl. She didn't know what she was doing, they say; she was too young to understand the impor There are many reviews already of this book, and I did wonder whether the world needed any more. But I disagree so strongly with some of the opinions expressed that I'm afraid I have to exercise my right to reply. Two things in particular stand out. Let me deal with the simpler one first. Some people seem appalled that the author is putting the guilt for this dreadful tragedy on the shoulders of a young girl. She didn't know what she was doing, they say; she was too young to understand the import of her actions, and we shouldn't hold her responsible. Well, it seems to me that this is completely beside the point. The novel,<---M> we finally learn</---M>, has been written by the girl herself. She's giving herself the blame for what happened. She's evidently spent her whole life wondering why she behaved the way she did, and she still doesn't really know. She's just trying to get the story as straight as she can, mainly so that she can understand it herself, and I found her efforts extremely moving. If anyone is claiming that people don't behave this way, all I can say is that their view of human nature is so different from mine that it'll be hard to have a meaningful conversation on the subject. So now the second and more controversial part. Many reviewers dislike the post-modernist aspects. They complain that McEwan is taking a perverse pleasure in tricking the reader into a view of the story which is finally revealed as incorrect; that he's playing the unreliable narrator card out of sheer willfulness. Again, I completely disagree. I don't think these aspects of the book are irrelevant or peripheral; I think they're at the very core of it, and are what make it a great piece of literature. McEwan shows us a girl who becomes an author precisely because she wants to expiate the dreadful feelings of guilt she has suffered all her life. He lets her explain how it happened, in what we eventually discover is a book within a book. And the truly awful thing is that she can't do it. She cops out with a fake happy ending, because she still can't face what she did. I don't think this is a trick; I think he's saying something about the very nature of writing. Many, many writers are like Briony. They write to absolve themselves of their guilt, but in the end they don't say what they want to say. It's too horrible to write down. They skirt around the issues, and end up presenting them in a more favourable light. If they're lucky, they may finally reach an age when they are so far removed from what happened that they can tell the story straight. This is what Briony does in the postscript, and I don't find it far-fetched. To take just one example, the first I happen to think of, look at Marguerite Duras. All her life, she kept thinking about her first love affair, and it coloured most of what she wrote. It was only when she was nearly 70 that she could set it down as L'Amant . Before the events of the fountain, Briony was indeed just a little girl; all she could write was the amusingly mediocre Arabella . Afterwards, she had something that was worth saying, though it took a long time to figure out how to do that. When she'd completed her task, she was able to get back to the one she was engaged in when she was interrupted: I love the circular structure, which ends with Arabella being staged 60 years late. Of the many infuriating changes in the movie version, I think I was most annoyed by the removal of this key scene. Wood burns, observes Monty Python's logician, as he gives an example of an incorrect syllogism; therefore, all that burns is wood. Similarly, the fact that much trickery is post-modern does not imply that all post-modernism is trickery. This is a great and heart-felt novel. ...more It's like To Kill A Mockingbird . Only, instead of a flawed but relatable protagonist, we have a protagonist vilified beyond all reason. Instead of a persecuted minority, we have a horny young man. And instead of Atticus Finch, we have...<---A>Ian McEwan</---A>. And never, in the history of literature, has anyone worked quite this hard to invalidate the accusatory gaze of young girls. The \"sinner\" here is young Briony. And her sin is pride. We see her exposed to sexist and obscene language, violent sex, and a It's like To Kill A Mockingbird . Only, instead of a flawed but relatable protagonist, we have a protagonist vilified beyond all reason. Instead of a persecuted minority, we have a horny young man. And instead of Atticus Finch, we have...Ian McEwan. And never, in the history of literature, has anyone worked quite this hard to invalidate the accusatory gaze of young girls. The \"sinner\" here is young Briony. And her sin is pride. We see her exposed to sexist and obscene language, violent sex, and a rape --all in one day! And why did she she make such a fuss? Well, according to McEwan, it's because she's the worst thing in the world : a little girl (<---B>with little girl problems</---B>) who simply can't understand the \"grownup\" world. (\"Grownup,\" in this context, refers almost exclusively to the pursuit of id impulses.) Everything the poor girl does is made to seem (somehow) insidious: the way she lines up her toys, the way she plays pretend, the way her own mind controls her own hand. (The power!) But who are McEwan's martyrs? you query. Where there's heavy handed allegory, there are bound to be martyrs, you say. Ah! That would be Robbie and Cecilia. You see, Robbie and Cecilia's sin is lust, the one ( and only ) sin that must always be defended in literature, the sin McEwan is (apparently) most defensive about. Naturally, some of that lust is projected onto the young girl--reverse moralists are so hypocritical!--but it's Robbie and Cecilia who are truly wronged. Indeed, no fictional character has been this wronged by the moral majority since Jude (the Obscure). But even Thomas Hardy had the presence of mind not to shrilly condemn young girls. McEwan undermined his point in overstating it. In McEwan's universe, the only real sin is being too uptight (or \"sheltered\"). No counterpoint is offered. Nor is there any real understanding of sexual trauma and its behavioral manifestations. No sexual history is provided the characters, certainly nothing to account for the behavior in evidence! ( To Kill a Mockingbird , mentioned earlier, does provide that history.) McEwan's characters are born the day we meet them...and only to serve his argument. In short, this is a defensive book. It's nothing more than a defensive book. Chance doesn't work this way. Trauma doesn't work this way. Sexuality doesn't work this way. Nothing works this way. One gets the distinct impression that McEwan has projected his own narcissism and guilt onto one character (the accuser) and his actual misdeeds onto another (the \"unjustly\" persecuted). Because his aims are self-indulgent, he doesn't accomplish much beyond this smug reversal. It never quite makes for a cohesive whole. (Nearly, though!) In a foreshadowing of later events, everyone fusses over a cousin who says she has been badly bruised by her two brothers. When the unjustly maligned little boys run away, it's predicted that the little drama queen will somehow find a way to regain the spotlight. She does...in getting raped. We never learn her thoughts or feelings about this incident, and her rapist is given a nebulous presence, at best, in the novel. Throughout the story, the victim is portrayed as a snob. She's so snobby, in fact, that she marries her rapist...in the name of monogamy. (Yes, Ian, we see what you did there.) Significantly, Cecilia too is portrayed as a snob...until she puts out. To summarize: Briony is the sort of uppity prig who accuses \"good\" men like Ian McEwan Robbie of being bad men. As we can clearly see, there are far worse men. See? Oh, the victim? Complicit. Moving on... And Cecilia just needed a good f... It's a shame, because the prose, itself, is good. The premise had a lot of potential for nuance and ambiguity. But McEwan forgoes any subtlety in his tireless crusade against...little girls. Little girls who tell on men. Little girls whose motives and perceptions simply can't be trusted. And all to make some asinine declaration about \"true\" art? In the end, we find that Briony is, herself, the narrator of this tale and her own literary career allows McEwan to covertly praise his own writing, so reminiscent of Woolf (in his opinion). (Um, no, Ian. Woolf was a good writer.) Is he serious? Is he trying to be a pompous ass? Was this an Andy Kaufman bit all along? Oh, also: War is bad. I make that an aside, because the actual causes, ramifications, and atrocities of war are clearly less important to McEwan than his own pen and man meat. But it's war that truly makes a man of you. If only I were a man and could understand the \"real\" world!...instead of writing fairy stories...playing with my miniatures...and stripping for the neighbor boys all day. Something tells me McEwan has a long and studied history of reframing. But the fact remains: If it's not cohesive, it's not true. This is cleverness. Not truth. ...more In World War II England, 13-year-old <---C>Briony Tallis</---C> misinterprets her older sister\u2019s love affair with their family\u2019s gardener to be something much worse than what it is. Her innocence and partial understanding of the world begins a chain of events that tears the family apart and alters the course of the rest of the girl\u2019s life. Sounds a little dry, right? Wrong! I guess I forgot to mention that the book was written by Ian McEwan, the king of uncomfortable moments, weird sex stuff, the rotating thi In World War II England, 13-year-old Briony Tallis misinterprets her older sister\u2019s love affair with their family\u2019s gardener to be something much worse than what it is. Her innocence and partial understanding of the world begins a chain of events that tears the family apart and alters the course of the rest of the girl\u2019s life. Sounds a little dry, right? Wrong! I guess I forgot to mention that the book was written by Ian McEwan, the king of uncomfortable moments, weird sex stuff, the rotating third-person close perspective, and - I\u2019ll say it! - writing about the human psyche. While I\u2019ve found some of his earlier books to be a little too uncomfortable (or, rather, too uncomfortable without good reason) or a little too sexually deviant (again, in the way that it seemed for shock value than with a reason), this was a freaking great book. I think the one thing that makes this book so wonderful is McEwan\u2019s eerily accurate understanding of how a 13-year-old girl\u2019s mind works - her understanding of the world and her emotional reaction to it. Briony is trapped between childhood and adulthood. She\u2019s old enough to recognize the dark and startling behind-the-scenes facets of her proper British family\u2019s life, but not old enough to properly analyze or judge them. She\u2019s old enough to impose her will and her ideas on others, but not wise enough to know when to act or when to question herself. It\u2019s a frustrating and fascination (and uncomfortable) time, and he has it down pat. McEwan also experiments with structure in ways that are truly innovative and new without being gimmicky. Briony is an aspiring writer who grows and develops her style throughout the 60 years that the novel covers, and McEwan\u2019s novel mirrors her literary growth. Part One of the story is extremely traditional (broken into chapters, with a clear rotation of perspectives and a uniform chronology). Parts Two and Three are much more modern - the story, which switches gears to follow the gardener into WWII France and Briony to her experiences as a nurse in London, loses structure and fluidity and uses more modern storytelling techniques. Finally, the last section is utterly contemporary - the story becomes even more abstract, with unreliable narrators and more conceptual writing favored over simple narrative. And yet these games with structure and story and perspective in no way take your focus from the story and the characters. Instead, they add to the experience of watching the main character grow and develop. If the book suffers from anything, it might be a little slow in some places and move too fast in others. Since McEwan tends to be very thorough when it comes to interior thought, the story often slows down a bit more than it should so that he can explain how every single person felt about a certain moment in time (although the story spans 60 years, the first 200 pages span a single afternoon and evening). The slow story a necessary evil, though, if we want to keep the detailed character studies in place. And we do. And the action-filled second half of the book, which covers the British retreat from the Germans in 1940 and the over-capacity army hospitals of London, makes up for the sometimes austere and rigorous first half. It just takes a while to get the story rolling. ...more That I can remember, I've never before disliked the start of a book so thoroughly, and by the end, gone on to think so much of it as a complete work. The last 2/3 of this novel are as good as contemporary fiction gets. The first 1/3 is like reading a Jane Austen plot trapped in amber. As the title indicates <+++>Atonement</+++> is about a future artist's massive effort to redeem herself for ruining the character of a young man when she is a younger girl. There are parts of this novel that are disjointed - or That I can remember, I've never before disliked the start of a book so thoroughly, and by the end, gone on to think so much of it as a complete work. The last 2/3 of this novel are as good as contemporary fiction gets. The first 1/3 is like reading a Jane Austen plot trapped in amber. As the title indicates <+++>Atonement</+++> is about a future artist's massive effort to redeem herself for ruining the character of a young man when she is a younger girl. There are parts of this novel that are disjointed - or if they aren't they appear so because the opening act moves so slowly that one is barely conscious and later unable to recall that anything much happened at all. Halfway through this novel, when its greatness starts to happen, a reader almost laments his earlier opinions of it. But whose fault is that? The beginning is such an act of endurance that the later parts make a reader wish that McEwan had moved things more quickly in the beginning - and used those words for more character development in the middle - so the reader could declare this novel, unequivocally, one of the five best novels he's ever read. McEwan is at the top of the art form throughout, though, whatever a reader opines of the product. He knows what he's doing every step of the way, right down to an allusion to the disjointed narrative methods employed by Virginia Woolf. The ending is brilliant, unexpected and harsh. But unlike the case of the returning Baxter character in the third act of Saturday , this ending is consistent and at once surprising and inevitable. After a person has read a few hundred novels, he grasps the art form well enough to know when an author is writing - usually it's when the author's employing some top-heavy descriptive technique that makes the water droplets gathered on a rose petal somehow more important than the protagonist's motives for anything she's done to that point - and it fairly well cries out, \"Look at me, my creator is a writer !\" Knowing when an author is writing means knowing that if there's a surprise coming, it's either going to be predicted about 50 pages out or done in such fantastically poor form that its inconsistency mars the rest of the work. McEwan is fine enough at his craft that the ending is both unanticipated and perfectly consistent. That alone makes this novel excellent. ...more The subject matter of Atonement is literature itself, but it is much more. First, the writer is one of its characters; second, because Ian McEwan\u2019s novel creates a world where subjectivity and objectivity interfere mutually. The characters are full of life and the language, even if elaborate and subtle, does not go around or makes inroads into itself. The narrator and protagonist, Briony Tallis, emerges in the beginner as a pre-adolescent that dreams to arrange the world in her texts, as in the p The subject matter of Atonement is literature itself, but it is much more. First, the writer is one of its characters; second, because Ian McEwan\u2019s novel creates a world where subjectivity and objectivity interfere mutually. The characters are full of life and the language, even if elaborate and subtle, does not go around or makes inroads into itself. The narrator and protagonist, Briony Tallis, emerges in the beginner as a pre-adolescent that dreams to arrange the world in her texts, as in the play she is writing. Her love for order, for the thorough design according to her spoiled desires, is translated into an impulse to write that hardly depend on the theme. \u201cThere did not have to be a moral. She need only show separate minds, as alive as her own, struggling with the idea that other minds were equally alive. It wasn't only wickedness and scheming that made people unhappy, it was confusion and misunderstanding, above all, it was the failure to grasp the simple truth that other people are as real as you. And only in a story could you enter these different minds and show how they had an equal value. That was the only moral a story need have.\u201d Her cousins, Lola and the twins, will be the actors, with which she plans to awe the assembled family, that include her parents, her older sister Cecily and the son of the housekeeper, Robbie. On that day of 1935, Briony sees Cecily and Robbie in a game that culminates in a mysterious scene. Briony believes she sees something that profoundly perturbs her. The development of the story doesn\u2019t let the reader stop. When, later, Lola is raped by a man that was not seen, Briony, without any grounds, makes a \u2018deduction\u2019 of who committed the crime. Here we are, therefore, in the territory of Jane Austen, cited in the epigraph, or Henry James, George Eliot and many other English authors: social tension versus sexual stress, pride and prejudice conflicts, mere misunderstandings that adopt dramatic dimensions. McEwan considers the simple distortions that physical acts, such as vision, can suffer when clouded by moral bias. Briony is attracted to Robbie and envies in Cecily her independence and, and in her anxiety to wipe out her shortcomings recreates the world in her own way, succumbing to prejudice and threatening her already reduced capacity to accept reality. But, more than that, what McEwan shows is how a writer can worsen weaknesses such as vanity, cowardice and credulity, sentiments that derive from the solitary and fallible condition that is above all human. Briony, with an absent father, a sick mother, a distant brother and an adult sister, fills her solitude with words that want to arrange everything, as she organizes her own room. \u201cBut hidden drawers, lockable diaries and cryptographic systems could not conceal from Briony the simple truth: she had no secrets. Her wish for a harmonious, organised world denied her the reckless possibilities of wrongdoing. Mayhem and destruction were too chaotic for her tastes, and she did not have it in her to be cruel. Her effective status as an only child, as well as the relative isolation of the Tallis house, kept her, at least during the long summer holidays, from girlish intrigues with friends. Nothing in her life was sufficiently interesting or shameful to merit hiding; no one knew about the squirrel's skull beneath her bed, but no one wanted to know.\u201d She is emotionally deprived as all of us, but a few degrees above the Richer scale: her need to be praised, her inability to deal with her environment, her surrendering to a fantasy of perfection \u2013 it is as if she were an immature child, seeking protection from life itself. However, the novel goes beyond an intimate recounting. In the second half, McEwan throws the reader into the Second World War, with memorable descriptions of the United Kingdom\u2019s empire ultimate whisper at the battle of Dunkirk. McEwan uses this as background to show us Robbie\u2019s feelings. Among dead and wounded, he drifts with his head down and wrapped in his own sentiments to protect himself and dreaming he will be exonerated for having survived in a battle were so many had died. \u201cNow he reduced his progress to the rhythm of his boots -- he walked across the land until he came to the sea. Everything that impeded him had to be outweighed, even if only by a fraction, by all that drove him on. ...He knew by heart certain passages from her letters, he had revisited their tussle with the vase by the fountain, he remembered the warmth from her arm at the dinner when the twins went missing. These memories sustained him, but not so easily.\u201d But what rots and sustains him is his hate for Briony: \u201cIn that shrinking moment he discovered that he had never hated anyone until now. It was a feeling as pure as love, but dispassionate and icily rational.\u201d Above everything: \u201cLet his name be cleared and everyone else adjust their thinking. He had put in time, now they must do the work. His business was simple. Find Cecilia and love her, marry her and live without shame.\u201d The ability of McEwan is very well known, but in Atonement he arrived were he had not reached before and where few living authors \u2013 maybe Coetzee, Philip Roth and a few others \u2013 were able to arrive. The force of his narrative is so much in the plot and in its magnitude as in its richness and structure. The story is strong, but who narrates is not subservient to its hierarchy and to its rhythm: it\u2019s a subject that lets it flow and, at the same time, chooses the moments and the way to reveal its parts. McEwan does not need to resort to fragmentation and mysticism to deal with the battle between affection and speech, between tolerance and freedom, a clash so in evidence nowadays. ...more I was bored with this until half way through, but then it got interesting. It touches on imagination versus reality, fiction versus fact, in addition to the story content. A portrait of an upper middle class English family is interrupted by a supposed rape in which a young imaginative (vengeful) girl misidentifies the rapist. I found that it stayed with me and that I appreciated it more with time. The film was a magnificent translation. This is where a 2.5 star rating would be ideal. I am extremely ambivalent about this novel--first the pluses: the writing is gorgeous; McEwan has some of the best prose out there. Every line has meat to it, nothing is throwaway, and every visual is so vivid that the reader is transported to a specific time and place. Secondly, (what everyone praises the novel for), the commentary McEwan is making about the novel itself--the fact that it is written, that characters and plots are manipulated by th This is where a 2.5 star rating would be ideal. I am extremely ambivalent about this novel--first the pluses: the writing is gorgeous; McEwan has some of the best prose out there. Every line has meat to it, nothing is throwaway, and every visual is so vivid that the reader is transported to a specific time and place. Secondly, (what everyone praises the novel for), the commentary McEwan is making about the novel itself--the fact that it is written, that characters and plots are manipulated by the author, and how a real character emerges (eventually) while at the same a written story exists too. This is very difficult to write about without revealing anything about the plot, but as one reads the novel, it becomes clear what McEwan is trying to do. Finally, the references to other literature (including some of the best novels--Clarissa, Lolita--and novelists--Elizabeth Bowen is directly mentioned, Henry Green and Virginia Woolf are obvious influences) is fluid, never forced, and is done to showcase a love of literature. At the same time, there are downsides to McEwan's endeavor--how to write a novel that is commenting on its obvious falsity (its construction as fiction), while at the same time trying to convey reality. This is perhaps an impossible task, and I'm left with the nagging feeling that the novel wants to have its cake and eat it too. The characters and situations are so obviously phony that it becomes distracting in the first part of the story. I was drawn in by the fantastic writing, but then found myself wanting to hurl the novel across the room at some of the ridiculous choices by both the characters and the novelist. Namely: 1) The main plot twist makes little realistic sense. Absolutely zero would fly in a mystery novel let alone real life; 2) The characters in the first part are boring aristocrats who we don't care about (check out a Henry Green novel; except in his novels, the reader continues to laugh at them, there is no attempt at emotional attachment); 3) The 'mystery's' solution is obvious to the reader before the crime even happens; 4) Briony (part 1) is an insufferable narrator (as kid narrators, To Kill a Mockingbird excluded, so often are); 5) The novelist's choice to name a sexually, precocious teenager 'Lola' (too obvious a reference). But these choices are meant to be ridiculous--reality is only supposed to set in in the epilogue. At the same time, I marveled at how real parts 2 (Robbie at war) and 3 (Briony as a nurse--some of the hospital scenes are the best I've ever read) seemed to be. Then the question became for me--if they seemed real because of the way the scenes were written (the gore again in the hospital), but could not have been real because the characters and overall plot of the Tallis family are so fake, isn't that cheating? I haven't reached a conclusion yet, but something is still bugging me about the conception of it. Ultimately I prefer novels that go the opposite route--Paul Auster's Oracle Night for example--that start out real and quickly become fake, or throw out the idea of a realistic, consistent plot entirely (only in the conclusion does David Mitchell's Cloud Atlas come together), rather than the never-ending 'is it real? is it fake?' push-and-pull of Atonement. ...more Having recently seen and loved the magnificent film adaptation, I decided to reread Atonement , which quite impressed me when it was first published. And guess what? It was an even more rewarding experience the second time around. Knowing what was coming -- knowing the plot twist at the end -- helped me focus on the quality of the writing rather than on the development of the story, and as always, McEwan's prose completely sucked me in. He is, quite simply, one of the most talented authors alive, Having recently seen and loved the magnificent film adaptation, I decided to reread Atonement , which quite impressed me when it was first published. And guess what? It was an even more rewarding experience the second time around. Knowing what was coming -- knowing the plot twist at the end -- helped me focus on the quality of the writing rather than on the development of the story, and as always, McEwan's prose completely sucked me in. He is, quite simply, one of the most talented authors alive, and he uses his gift to great effect here. I'm not really going to go into the plot here, because the less the first-time reader knows about the book, the better. Suffice it to say that it is about an imaginative thirteen-year-old who witnesses a few things she doesn't understand, draws the wrong conclusions and ends up ruining the lives of two people near and dear to her. The first half of the book deals with the event itself and the hours leading up to it; the second half deals with her attempts to, well, deal with it -- atone for it, so to speak. As always, McEwan excels at setting the scene. His description of a hot summer afternoon in a 1935 English country house is lush and sumptuous, his evocation of a young soldier's struggle to reach home after the disastrous 1940 battle of Dunkirk is haunting, and his look into the horrors of a war-time London hospital is gruesome in all its detail. Amazingly, McEwan manages to find beauty even in the most horrific scenes, which is one of the things which set him apart as a writer. As usual, though, it's the psychological stuff that is really outstanding. McEwan has a knack for taking his readers deep into his characters' minds, letting them share their most intimate, most uncomfortable thoughts and feelings. Sometimes these thoughts are a little disturbing (those of you who have read his earlier works will know what I mean), but usually they have the effect of completely drawing the reader into the story. The latter is definitely the case in Atonement . By presenting the story from different perspectives and vantage points, McEwan provides the reader with a complete and engrossing view of a life-changing event and its aftermath. All the different perspectives ring true, and together they tell a marvellous tale of perception, loyalty, anger, secrets, lost love, shame, guilt, obsession with the past and -- yes -- atonement. And about writing, for more than anything else, Atonement is about the difference between fiction and reality, the power of the imagination and the human urge to write and rewrite history -- to write destiny and play God. I've heard quite a few people say that they found the first half of the novel too slow and ponderous, wondering why McEwan felt the need to devote nearly two hundred pages to the events of a single day. Personally, I found that part of the book to be utterly brilliant in its rich, Woolf-like glory. As far as I'm concerned, the atmosphere of the first half is superbly drawn, with each character down to the most minor one being well realised and the tensions and suspense at work almost being made tangible. For me, it is the second half of the book which has problems (albeit minor ones), in that I found the jumps in time and perspective jarring and the (otherwise fascinating) chapter about Robbie's adventures in France somewhat unreal. Of course, there are good reasons for the slightly unreal quality of the Dunkirk chapter (which the film captured just brilliantly), but still, it didn't quite work for me; it felt a bit out of place. Thankfully, though, the rest of the book worked just wonderfully for me. Like other McEwan books, it left me with a haunting question -- 'What if...?' As for McEwan's impressive insight into the mind of a thirteen-year-old girl, which other reviewers have called scary, I think that has everything to do with Briony's being a writer. She is hardly your average thirteen-year-old (I think even McEwan would have a hard time coming up with one of those!); rather she is a writer (a good one), and that, of course, is something McEwan knows all about. As a fellow writer, I greatly enjoyed seeing the world through Briony's eyes, and hope her author will live to her old age and write as many good books as he has her doing. ...more I feel that perhaps I have sabotaged this book somewhat as I read it directly after finishing Love In the Time of Cholera, and perhaps in retrospect should have read a poetry book or some non-fiction in between. Clearly anything I would have read after finishing a Masterpiece would pale in comparison but I decided that the critical raves this book had received and high praise from people around me should be enough to encourage me to see it through to the end. Here is why I found this book lacking I feel that perhaps I have sabotaged this book somewhat as I read it directly after finishing Love In the Time of Cholera, and perhaps in retrospect should have read a poetry book or some non-fiction in between. Clearly anything I would have read after finishing a Masterpiece would pale in comparison but I decided that the critical raves this book had received and high praise from people around me should be enough to encourage me to see it through to the end. Here is why I found this book lacking without giving too much actual plot away to those who would want to read it themselves. I found all of the characters completely devoid of any true personality or any reason I should care or feel connected to them. The details described in the book do a lot for physical surroundings but we know nothing of Cecila except she went to college and chain smokes, so I don't particularly care about anything that happens to her, besides the fact that much of her life is lived outside what information the book provides. Briony is a terrible child, a narcissistic teenager, and and at last a harmless grandmother who I don't especially care about at any of these three points in her life. The only character with the least bit of humanity seems to be Robbie who is still somewhat confined to his role as the \"victim\". All the lovely descriptions of ponds and hospital wards and French war-torn villages could not make up for the fact that none of these characters were the slightest bit interesting to me or seemed to connect to anything. They simply floated through long locational descriptions being powerless to the world around them and unfortunately for me I didn't need 350 pages to get that point. It could have easily been accomplished as a short story or novella. I just kept feeling that the book had all this great detail but didn't focus it on anything that it shoud have. I know this may sound exceedingly harsh and once again I do chalk some of this up to reading Atonement directly after a much better novel it had no hope in eclipsing or even paralleling in its structure but I also know how quickly and easily I fall in love with characters. How quickly I can get pulled into a good story and I sincerely feel that although I wouldn't call this book a complete waste, that my time would have been much better spent elsewhere. ...more **WARNING: Don't read this if you don't want the ending spoiled!** This book...I hate it! It's beautiful, every word of it is gorgeous, but it's as if the author spends all this time painstakingly crafting a really detailed, intricate vessel for you (I'm thinking of a boat :))and then just before your journey's over he snatches it out from under you & you sink. Why go to such lengths describing the lovers, and the war, and Briony & the nursing when in the end none of it even matters? The **WARNING: Don't read this if you don't want the ending spoiled!** This book...I hate it! It's beautiful, every word of it is gorgeous, but it's as if the author spends all this time painstakingly crafting a really detailed, intricate vessel for you (I'm thinking of a boat :))and then just before your journey's over he snatches it out from under you & you sink. Why go to such lengths describing the lovers, and the war, and Briony & the nursing when in the end none of it even matters? The problem with Atonement is that there is no atonement, which, of course, is the point. This book was described to me as 'haunting' and it definitely is- haunting & depressing. A story doesn't have to have a happy ending to be good, I mean, this is a great book, really, but I felt really empty & hollow when it was over. The part at the end when the author says that the story is the only part that matters b/c no one will ever remember the real people or the actual events anyway was crushing! It's true, I know, and I don't really have a problem w/ realism...but I have a big problem with death. It freaks me out. I have a really unhealthy fear of it. Especially unjust death. It just pisses me off more than I can explain. Maybe I've just been feeling too poetic lately, listening to too much sensitive-artist music, but I can't stand that Briony kills 2 people and then just conjures them back up from the dead as if it never happened and no one else even mentions it. It makes me think too much about actual events, politics, & things. I don't want to run out of time, I have things I want to do here, and I don't want to be reminded that the truth is it doesn't matter whether I run out of time or not because eventually there isn't going to be anyone left who ever knew me, or my family, or anyone we ever knew. Ugh. I'm making myself sick w/ this. I'm told the movie is really good b/c it's beautiful w/out being quite as harsh at the end. I think I need to see it so I can stop thinking about the book. It's waking me up at night, or rather it's waking me up in the morning realizing that I've been thinking about it all night. I hate it, but it really is good. ...more A lesson to us all: never put anything in print that one day might come back to bite you in the ass. Having already seen the movie, I didn't particularly want to read the book (I've never read Mario Puzo's The Godfather , now have I?), but seeing as this book is a modern great, I felt it my duty to drag it from my book cave. Pleasingly, McEwan writes with aplomb about the human psyche: of lust, loathing, immaturity and guilt; his prose is word perfect. That said, the novel suffers from its own ident A lesson to us all: never put anything in print that one day might come back to bite you in the ass. Having already seen the movie, I didn't particularly want to read the book (I've never read Mario Puzo's The Godfather , now have I?), but seeing as this book is a modern great, I felt it my duty to drag it from my book cave. Pleasingly, McEwan writes with aplomb about the human psyche: of lust, loathing, immaturity and guilt; his prose is word perfect. That said, the novel suffers from its own identity crisis, a mezze of Jane Austen, followed by a main course of Sebastian Faulks. The author's genius, though, is in causing us to forget that his book was actually written in the modern day. Very clever! One of our protagonists, Robbie, puts his lustful thoughts to paper in a way that would merely seem vulgarly juvenile in a modern day text message: Been dreamin bout kissing your cunt, yeah? But, when inscribed in ink, onto 1930s vellum-finish stationery? Well naturally the 'C' word amps up the shock factor exponentially! There is no doubt that McEwan is one of Britain's greatest literary gods, his beautiful prose had me purrrring with delight ... ah, but here's the thing... The story, nnnng, grmmmphh! Oh the story just didn't keep me enthralled. There, I've said it! In addition, I have my own crazy theory that Briony might just be the author's imagined avatar of his younger self. Hmmm? Yeah, who's crazy now? : ) 5, out of 5 for the writing. 3, out of 5 for the story. ...more In life, we all make mistakes. Some big, some small, but usually we quickly forget them. But what happens when you make a mistake that haunts you every day and you can do nothing about it? This book was fantastic. I loved the writing. I loved the characters. They were so well developed I could feel their emotions in myself as I read. I was deeply and truly satisfied by the story and the writing. When I closed the book after the last page I felt like I was sitting back after finishing an amazing m In life, we all make mistakes. Some big, some small, but usually we quickly forget them. But what happens when you make a mistake that haunts you every day and you can do nothing about it? This book was fantastic. I loved the writing. I loved the characters. They were so well developed I could feel their emotions in myself as I read. I was deeply and truly satisfied by the story and the writing. When I closed the book after the last page I felt like I was sitting back after finishing an amazing meal. Read this! It is going up on my favorites shelf! ...more Atonement is about a thirteen year-old girl, Briony Tallis, who observed her older sister, and a servant in the most unusual actions that could not be fathomed in a young girl's mind. Briony's, with her amazing imagination, concocted an extraordinary tale that caused an unforgivable crime. Can she repair the damage that changes everyone's lives? I always wanted this book. After watching the movie, many moons ago, I knew I wanted it. Honestly, I don't remember the film all that well. I remember co Atonement is about a thirteen year-old girl, Briony Tallis, who observed her older sister, and a servant in the most unusual actions that could not be fathomed in a young girl's mind. Briony's, with her amazing imagination, concocted an extraordinary tale that caused an unforgivable crime. Can she repair the damage that changes everyone's lives? I always wanted this book. After watching the movie, many moons ago, I knew I wanted it. Honestly, I don't remember the film all that well. I remember complaining that I was confused, because it was too artsy for my young mine. I have no idea if it is truly artsy. I might have wandered around the house too many times, and then returned to the movie asking my mother a billion questions. What I do remember is the ending, which I was left with my mouth open wide. The ending of the film was my reason of wanting the novel. First thing that grasped me while reading was the excerpt of Northanger Abbey by Jane Austen. I love Jane Austen's work. Northanger Abbey is not my favorite novel, but I did admire it immensely. (view spoiler) [ McEwan kind of spoiled his novel in a small way. If you read Northanger Abbey and define atonement - reparation for a wrong or injury - then you basically know what happens. You just don't know the reason, and what happened, or if she atoned. (hide spoiler) ] Second thing that grasped me, in the early chapters, was the mention of biology. I won't over do this paragraph, don't worry. Briony, realizes and ponders about more complicated and complex matters of her body. She thinks about the Nervous system, and the synapses of the brain to muscle tissue. When I took Anatomy and Physiology in college I was just impressed by the body's design, and how it works. I am fascinated at the complex, and simple mechanisms of the body. Robbie, the servant, had a drawling of the hand in his study. Did you know the hand has 27 bones? Whereas, the leg has three bones, the Femur, Tibia, and Fibula. Fascinating! Before I go off on a rant about anatomy, let me talk about the novel. I love McEwan's writing style, especially Part 1. I read some reviews that Part 1 was a little boring, but I really enjoyed it. I liked the 360 degree view of all the characters. It somewhat felt like I was playing Sims. Do you remember that game? You see everyone's thoughts, assumptions, and aspirations. I thought it was great imagery that adult lives are intricate. Our lives are not simply in black and white, but gray, too. Young Briony loved everything clean and orderly, but adult situations are not in a straight line. Life curves, twist, and becomes patchy. On top of 360 degree view, as the reader, you are too making assumptions about the story. My question is this: is it in our nature to fill in the gaps? Side Note: I think I read this in psychology, that our brain fills pictures in before our eye message is received. haha. You know when you do those double takes on imaginary objects, that is what your brain is doing. One time I thought I saw a donut in a field. I am not joking. I must have been hungry. I loved the symbolism in this novel, too. Parts 3 and 4 are about WWII. I really felt like I was walking with Robbie, and Briony. I could imagine everything vividly. I almost cried a few times, because I could imagine the wounds, the bombs, and the tragedy of the war. I felt that I was in the pages grasping for that child, running from the air raids, cleaning, and bandaging the wounded. I was there in those pages walking with the annoying blisters, dry mouth, and exhausted limbs. The only thing I wished for was having Cee's point of view. I stated previously that I watched the movie, but I was still shocked at the ending. I was rooting for the characters, and gasped at the most gut knotting scenes. Magnificent work of art. Atonement is a beautiful masterpiece. Just remember we are only human, and we make mistakes. Good thing for science to back up facts. *wink* I recommend it to everyone. I hope you enjoy, and happy reading. Read my blog here at www.dancingbetweenthecovers.com Edited: Feb 5, 2017 So, I watched Atonement and I can see where I could have been confused. There are tons of flashbacks, and you can't really leave your seat. So, I assume I just wandered off, and then came back. I guess it helps that I read the book, but I bet if you watch it from beginning to end without wandering off you won't have a problem. I made my husband watch it, but he didn't come in at the beginning and was asking me questions. The ending still shocked me. I hope all you get a chance to read this novel or the movie. :) oh! Also, I shouted THEON is in this movie. How exciting! I knew young Professor X is in the movie and Lizzy from Pride and Prejudice, but THEON! Sweet! ...more This was the favourite novel of a friend of mine who died suddenly a few years ago. She loved it so much that she refused to see the film adaptation because, she said, it couldn't possibly be as good as the novel. I, on the other hand, saw the film without having read the book because when the film was released I was still in the won't-read-McEwan stage of my life that lasted from 1988 or 1989 until two or three years ago. Anyway, I quite liked the film, or at least it made an impression on me a This was the favourite novel of a friend of mine who died suddenly a few years ago. She loved it so much that she refused to see the film adaptation because, she said, it couldn't possibly be as good as the novel. I, on the other hand, saw the film without having read the book because when the film was released I was still in the won't-read-McEwan stage of my life that lasted from 1988 or 1989 until two or three years ago. Anyway, I quite liked the film, or at least it made an impression on me at the time. Although I've only seen it once, I can still see images: Cecilia's green dress and the beach at Dunkirk particularly come to mind. I also remembered the plot, and therefore its twist. So when I read the novel, there were no suprises. Knowing what was going to happen, I paid attention to see if I could pick up the clues and yes, they were there in the text. Not that I think a reader who didn't know the plot could work it all out just on the basis of the clues, but at least McEwan wasn't cheating. Anyway, while I don't think McEwan is ever going to be my favourite novelist. There's a brittleness to him (or something, I'm not quite sure what it is) that I find unappealing. However, in this novel he poses important questions about love, guilt, redemption, truth and the nature and purpose of fiction. McEwan writes excellent prose and he does the meta-fiction thing extremely well. I doubt I'll be reading this again, but I'm glad that I've read it once. Now I understand why my friend loved it so much. I just wish she was still here so we could talk about it. ...more \"Atonement\" focuses on tragic events surrounding the Tallis family during the years prior to, during and after the Second World War. Briony Tallis, a thirteen-year-old girl who has a dream of becoming a famous author, witnesses and misunderstands the sexual tension between her older sister Cecilia and the gardener Robbie Turner, with her mistake leading to years of remorse, hate, solitude \u2013 and atonement. One might think this is a concept too unpromising for a full-length story, lacking any furt \"Atonement\" focuses on tragic events surrounding the Tallis family during the years prior to, during and after the Second World War. Briony Tallis, a thirteen-year-old girl who has a dream of becoming a famous author, witnesses and misunderstands the sexual tension between her older sister Cecilia and the gardener Robbie Turner, with her mistake leading to years of remorse, hate, solitude \u2013 and atonement. One might think this is a concept too unpromising for a full-length story, lacking any further potential for an interesting reading experience which will stick in one\u2019s memory. But whoever may bear such thoughts: the novel is even more than that. Don\u2019t expect a hopeful, romantic or even funny story when entering the world Ian McEwan has built in his masterpiece. It is tragic, heart-breaking and full of dark moments. There is not too much hope in this story. \u201eAtonement\u201c depicts what might very well have been reality. McEwan deals with flawed characters. Neither of them are perfect, all of them commit mistakes with grave consequences. Most of them are not even likeable. But you can\u2019t say any person included in McEwans large cast of characters is depicted in an unrealistic way, and in my opinion, that\u2019s what makes \u201eAtonement\u201c a true masterpiece . Two years ago, I had to read \u201eThe Innocent\u201c, one of McEwan\u2019s less-known novels, for school. It was not particularly well-written, felt really weird to me and a lot of others, did not deal subtly with its messages, and was generally no novel to be commemorated as a great work. I am still angry with my English teacher for introducing me to McEwan with such a book, considering his writing talents shine so much more through the narrative of \u201eAtonement\u201c. Say what you want about the plot or the character development, but the prose is beautiful. The book has been published only fourteen years ago, but it is one of those novels which will probably be considered to be true classics in fifty or one hundred years. \u201eAtonement\u201c is divided into three different sections. The first one deals with a hot afternoon in the summer of 1935 and the aftermath of a fatal entanglement, introducing the main characters, a stunning atmosphere and allowing the reader to become familiar with McEwan\u2019s writing style. It was a little bit difficult to get into the story due to its slow beginning and the lengthy introduction, which is the main reason for why I deducted one half-star from my rating and finally rounded it down to 4 stars. But as soon as the first plot twist appeared, the story\u2019s pace gathered speed, making up for a great conclusion to the first part. The second section then introduced us to a soldier\u2019s experience during the Second World War, and while interesting and very well-written, this section \u2013 once again \u2013 may be considered to be a little long-winded. (I think those 100 pages might easily have been reduced to 60 or 70.) And then McEwan returned to his main protagonist during the course of the last section, narrating a tale about a nurse\u2019s difficult life during War, and had he not already captured me with his prose, he would certainly have succeeded to do so with this final part. The epilogue was one of the best conclusions to a story I\u2019ve ever read, staying true to the plot and the characters and completing the story in a way which is very close to being perfect. If you enjoy reading novels with magnificent writing, profound plot elements which remain true to the characters, and perfect character development, then this is the book you should check out next. ...more Sometimes when I write these reviews, especially when they're of novels with widespread popularity and critical acclaim, I start to feel like a real curmudgeon. Is there anything really wrong with Ian McEwan's \u201cAtonement?\u201d Is it not a compelling story well told? Is the writing not clear, succinct, and free of pretentiousness? Does McEwan not draw the reader into a well-imagined world and hold him there until the last page? The answer to all these questions is yes. Yet still, yet still... Maybe it Sometimes when I write these reviews, especially when they're of novels with widespread popularity and critical acclaim, I start to feel like a real curmudgeon. Is there anything really wrong with Ian McEwan's \u201cAtonement?\u201d Is it not a compelling story well told? Is the writing not clear, succinct, and free of pretentiousness? Does McEwan not draw the reader into a well-imagined world and hold him there until the last page? The answer to all these questions is yes. Yet still, yet still... Maybe it's all the acclaim that \u201cAtonement\u201d received when first published and the literary prizes it either won or was shortlisted for, or maybe it's the comparison I'm drawing \u2013 unfairly, to be sure \u2013 with some of the classic novels I've been reading lately, but I just don't see why McEwan's book has been held up as one of the great works of literary fiction of recent years. (Or maybe everything else from the last several years is that much worse?) My chief problem with \u201cAtonement\u201d is it just never feels fully real, like great novels do. I could never picture Briony, Cecilia, Robbie and the book's other characters existing beyond their words and actions on the page. They never become something more than characters in a novel \u2013 never become real living, breathing people, as is the case with truly great works of literature. The whole book just feels far too mannered, too neatly composed, too written. Spoilers to follow here, so skip the next paragraph if you haven't yet read \u201cAtonement\u201d and plan to. Does this maybe speak, though, to McEwan's genius? After all, in his nod to the art of metafiction, McEwan makes the novel not really his novel at all, but rather one written by his character Briony Tallis, so that all but the last section of the book, which is told first-person by Briony, becomes a novel within the novel. A defender of the book who accepts everything I've said up until this point might rightfully argue that the novel-within-the-novel's weaknesses speak to the who the character of Briony actually is, and to her shortcomings as a novelist. If that were McEwan's intention, it's kind of a brilliant move: a good novelist purposely writing in an average way because the character actually telling the story is herself an average novelist. OK, but even if I accept this argument \u2013 and even though I made the argument myself, I'm not sure it holds water \u2013 I still don't want to read an entire novel that's simply average, even if it's intended to be. Spoilers over. Getting back to my original point, though, why do I feel the urge to demand that every piece of literature \u2013 even one well-loved, and with critical regard \u2013 need be as brilliant as one by, say, Nabokov? (Though, to be fair, McEwan is asking for this comparison, as Nabokov mastered the metafiction toyed with in \u201cAtonement\u201d back when McEwan was just a wee lad.) Can't some literary novels just be an enjoyable read without achieving a place in the pantheon of great literature? Isn't there, alongside Nabokov and Bellow, a place for writers such as John Irving and Ian McEwan? (And is that too insulting to McEwan? Too flattering to Irving?) And, finally, have I become, as a reader, too much a curmudgeon? ...more There are so many angles and perceptions to consider in this book. Sometimes the end can make a book and that is certainly the case here where the story is left open for interpretation. This is a book that leaves you thinking and considering, making up your own conclusions--and strong enough characters to make you want to. The first few chapters I did find my mind wandering through lengthy descriptions (I'll call it beautiful, poetic scenery), and yet that scenery set a lackadaisical feel vital t There are so many angles and perceptions to consider in this book. Sometimes the end can make a book and that is certainly the case here where the story is left open for interpretation. This is a book that leaves you thinking and considering, making up your own conclusions--and strong enough characters to make you want to. The first few chapters I did find my mind wandering through lengthy descriptions (I'll call it beautiful, poetic scenery), and yet that scenery set a lackadaisical feel vital to the innocence and peace of that opening day. It's not just the easy-going feel of pre-war life McEwan was portraying. On a second read, I find a strain, a desire to understand every motive and action. And in those details I find sadness that life never moved on. It was played over and over again trying to find meaning and purpose to each detail. The slowness is painstaking analysis. There is a reason for the meticulous care with which each detail is described and the read well worth the persistence to the end. Even from the beginning I was intrigued with the story and found the characters compelling. I just loved Briony's capricious character, her innocent yet eloquently advanced mind. I could despise the nosy little sister and sympathize with the fearful inactive girl all in one breath. I could hate Paul's conceit and Lola's pleas for attention and understand the muteness all the same. But mostly I could sympathize and relate to Robbie and Cecilia as likable characters, wanting to add more time to their brief, interrupted interactions. I found myself ever-fearful for the end and therefore could not put the book down. Spoilers in my analysis to death. Despite Briony's foreshadowing (saying she would rewrite the fountain scene from all perspectives), I did not suspect the end. I expected the separation but not the invention of this whole story. Because of the story in a story format, you can interpret the few authentic scenes anyway you like and not take her word for any of it. That is what I love about the story, particularly on a second read, that I can question motives assigned to characters instead of take it for face value. At one point reading Robbie's thoughts I considered the layers: Ewan writing Briony writing Robbie and paused in awe at McEwan's talent. Because of the layers, McEwan has the unique opportunity to add insight and symbolism, even study questions as commentary. Take Briony's comment when relieved to see Robbie at Cecilia's that Robbie's death would have been \"outlandish, against all odds\" and would have made no sense. Or the letter from the editor telling her the story was incomplete: \"how might [her misunderstanding:] affect the lives of the two adults?\" And while vivid her descriptions of light and shade she should create \"light and shade within the narrative itself.\" To which you can't help but wonder about light and shade in the story and characters. In what other novel can the author analyze his own work and insert his own cues for study? I was confused at the drastic abbreviation of Robbie's war tour--though I enjoyed considering the shrapnel as a physical expression of his hidden wound. It was so obvious why the section quit there, but I couldn't believe it ended there; I had to hold out hope however thin the thread. I thought Briony's atonement would come as a nurse on duty, and I held my breath waiting for the improbable meeting. Her interaction with the dying French boy showed how much she wanted that redemption from Robbie by consoling and listening to what cannot be fixed. How she longed for closure with him. I doubt Robbie hated Briony. In her self-deprecation her interpretation is harsh. I think exasperation at a nosy child whom you adore but all of a sudden can't approach because her vivid imagination has turned to fear is sufficient emotion. I liked Robbie enough to think he could have forgiven her. If anything he was the one who was understanding and forgiving while Cecilia was ready to throw out her family to show her commitment to Robbie. I think Cecilia and Robbie were on the verge of forgiving Briony, but Briony could not allow herself to believe so without diminishing her guilt. She states \"neither Briony nor the war had destroyed\" their love. Even though she says so about her made-up gift of an ending, can't she see some redemptive power for herself, even in the \"bleakest realism\"? I was so confused at the unexpected way the reunion scene between Robbie and Celia. It was so implausible and awkward and I wondered how the story had gotten off course and how Robbie had gotten there from France. His reaction was not anything like I expected, that after everything he had been through, he could still hold that much hate for Briony. And yet that was its intention. On a second read, it's one of my favorite parts as she gives us a glimpse of the verbal rebut she so longed for and some of the best layered meanings. I love how her novel sprouted from a desire to amend, but offered as a response to Robbie's invented request: \"She knew what was required of her...a new draft, an atonement.\" While Briony should take culprit for the loss of several years, she can't for their entire lives, for the years fate and the war stole away. And she can't even take full credit for those years. It was not her \"crime\" but her interpretation of one that fueled the problem. She spent her life in remorse, letting her decision shape her life and self worth. I think she more than paid her debt for what was a misunderstanding, a mistake, not cruel revenge. She got caught up in her perception and forced facts to fit her assumptions--ones she full-heartedly believed. It is Lola unwilling to admit her part in the sexual encounter that should be atoning. Paul with his unrepentant spirit that should atone for another man paying for his crime. And even her mother making the improbable leap from inappropriate love letter to assault to break a servant's son connection with her daughter. Surely, she is just as guilty but seems unwillingly to accept her part in losing relationships with both her daughters. Briony is the only one in this story willing to atone for the tragedy. I didn't find her silence at the wedding cowardice: what good would it have served to ruin yet another couple's happiness? Her appearance was sufficient. I wish Cecilia were more vocal the night they waited for his return. Sure the social class and unacceptable library behavior restrained her, but I wanted passion as proof of her love. Her silence annoyed and confused me as much as Briony's self-righteous witness angered me. But despite her hesitation that night, considering Cecilia's drastic reaction to her family, I want to believe the relationship must have been long-term, more serious. I'd like to think as her atonement Briony was as hard on herself as possible. I want to think that instead of unrequited love there was secret love undiscovered away from home but unable to pass inquisitive eyes. It doesn't atone, but it makes it less severe. Briony's initial reaction to the fountain scene was that Robbie was proposing marriage. It could be accurate that Briony happened upon a lover's quarrel: Cecilia wanted to keep the relationship hushed from her parents and when Robbie was too personal in broad daylight she snapped. The letter could have been a joke from a guy asking for a moment alone with his girlfriend and in it his hesitance to jump from playful to committed. The story invented, while the most probable, was the most severe option she could conjure up and not the one I wanted to believe. I know I'm grasping at straws, but I want to believe Briony was wrong. The beauty of the story is I can. The fact that I cared enough about the characters to want that for them, to simmer over it after I closed the book, reluctant to have it end, testifies to the power of the story. Despite my longing, I wouldn't necessarily consider the story of Robbie and Cecilia a complete tragedy. If one had survived to grieve and hate then yes, but to have such intense love (to have \"a reason for life\" as Cecilia put it) and be reunited after a short time gives their lives meaning and purpose and only makes it tragic for Briony left to regret the consequences of her rash judgment without ever hope of reconciliation. There in lies the tragedy: in a girl's life altered, not in the love story. Some of my favorite quotes: It wasn't only wickedness and scheming that made people unhappy, it was confusion and misunderstanding; above all, it was the failure to grasp the simple truth that other people are as real as you. And only in a story could you enter there different minds and show how they had a equal value. That was the only moral a story need have. The cost of oblivious daydreaming was always this moment of return, the realignment with what had been before and now seemed a little worse. (Robbie of meeting Cecilia) It would be worse, but he still wanted it. he had to have it. He wanted it to be worse. Every now and then quite unintentionally someone taught you something about yourself. (Robbie & Cecilia uttering each other's names) It sounded like a new word--the syllables remained the same, the meaning was different. (Briony on guilt) How quite refined the methods of self-torture, invading the beads of detail into an eternal loop, a rosary to be fingered for a lifetime. Memories--bleached colorless through overuse. With the clarity of passion A person is, among all else, a material thing, easily torn and not easily mended. She was the sort of girl who lived in her thoughts. It was common enough to see so much death and want a child, common therefore human, and he wanted it all the more. When the wounded were screaming, you dreamed of sharing a little house somewhere, of an ordinary life, a family line, connection. Now was her chance to proclaim in public all the private anguish and purge herself of all that she had done wrong. Before the altar of this most rational of churches. To Briony it appeared her life was gong to be lived in one room without a door. What she felt was more like homesickness though there was no source for it, no home. ...more Is there word beyond 'amazing' that I can use? Some word beyond 'enthralling'? I need them. I'm reaching for them. But I literally just finished the book and I'm so much in awe of it I just can't. It's perfect. It's perfect in every image and line and mirror and echo. Ian McEwan is such a master of language and storycraft. I devoured this book in a day. Less than a day. Ignoring all other work to do so. And it was TOTALLY worth it. I can't think of what to praise first this point, so I'm going to Is there word beyond 'amazing' that I can use? Some word beyond 'enthralling'? I need them. I'm reaching for them. But I literally just finished the book and I'm so much in awe of it I just can't. It's perfect. It's perfect in every image and line and mirror and echo. Ian McEwan is such a master of language and storycraft. I devoured this book in a day. Less than a day. Ignoring all other work to do so. And it was TOTALLY worth it. I can't think of what to praise first this point, so I'm going to go in random order. I'll start with the language. It's enthralling. It's that that draws you into the story. The story moves rather slowly, really. Half of the book takes place on a single day. But it is the language that makes you not care. The wordchoice is enchanting, just so. Gorgeous imagery interposed with just the right touch of magic to keep it beautifully fresh. He weaves his images throughout the text, having them pop up again and again, subtly. For instance, a pair of boy's pajamas becomes a symbol of war and horror as well as innocence ruined and then vague oppression and doubt renewed throughout the novel. A finger becomes a sense of self and changed identity at various points. It's just gorgeously done. The storycraft is so perfect too. I love how he chooses to do it, switching from perspective to perspective, but always with the center on this delusional little girl, and the echoes of her own storymaking. It is story that screws over them all in the end. But it is story that resurrects them too. I loved his inward musings on writing, and his critique of his own writing within the text. It's a bit of a breaking of the fourth wall that's done with a rather sad irony, but it still brought a smile to my face. I really enjoyed the themes that he explored too. Eventually I'll post some of my favorite quotes to give an idea of the beauty of the language and ideas that he explores as well, but in general... I think my favorite idea that he dealt with was the idea of order as a kind of childishness. As a kind of little, small denial of the world. The entire book shows the folly of order and what it does to our souls and minds. (quotes to come on this). I also loved his treatment of the all consuming nature of guilt. Atonement. Atonement indeed. Amazing. I cannot recommend this enough. ...more When I read a contemporary 21st century novel, especially a really good one, I often wonder, will it become a classic? Will people still be reading it 150 years from now? It's hard to know of course. Occasionally I read one that I think will still be around, will be read and appreciated years from now. Atonement is one of those. The setting, the plot, the time period, the historical aspect, were all perfectly connected. The characters were so real that I felt like I was reading a historical reco When I read a contemporary 21st century novel, especially a really good one, I often wonder, will it become a classic? Will people still be reading it 150 years from now? It's hard to know of course. Occasionally I read one that I think will still be around, will be read and appreciated years from now. Atonement is one of those. The setting, the plot, the time period, the historical aspect, were all perfectly connected. The characters were so real that I felt like I was reading a historical record of their lives. The writing was brilliant, as good as I have read., and I read a lot. Yes, I think this novel will become a classic, it already is in my mind. ...more I always have a problem with Ian McEwan's novels. On the one hand, I am impressed by the expert writing, the elegant flow with never the least snag in the language to trip me up. On the other hand, I cringe from his stories, full as they are of treacherous snags to trip me up at every turn. I read them with a terrible anxiety hovering near my heart. Am I the only one who is so sensitive to their exaggerated aura of menace? Friends who like McEwan's writing don't feel this at all. Why have I read I always have a problem with Ian McEwan's novels. On the one hand, I am impressed by the expert writing, the elegant flow with never the least snag in the language to trip me up. On the other hand, I cringe from his stories, full as they are of treacherous snags to trip me up at every turn. I read them with a terrible anxiety hovering near my heart. Am I the only one who is so sensitive to their exaggerated aura of menace? Friends who like McEwan's writing don't feel this at all. Why have I read so many ? Partly because of the critical acclaim that welcomes each new novel, partly in the hope that this time the story will be as satisfying as the writing. I continue to live in hope... ...more A scintillating piece of the purest gemstone, a diamond, was tracing around the forceps of a persona, the face of a mountain. The sky was a jet-black expanse devoid of sunlight and every color that pleases the eyes. There were small bursts of constant explosions inside that cavernous cave of red. A ripping sensation engulfed the whole scenery, like a piece of meat being torn by a pack of savage dogs. Emptiness. Then, a small stream of gold flowed from the heavens. Color was restored in the most A scintillating piece of the purest gemstone, a diamond, was tracing around the forceps of a persona, the face of a mountain. The sky was a jet-black expanse devoid of sunlight and every color that pleases the eyes. There were small bursts of constant explosions inside that cavernous cave of red. A ripping sensation engulfed the whole scenery, like a piece of meat being torn by a pack of savage dogs. Emptiness. Then, a small stream of gold flowed from the heavens. Color was restored in the most simple of hues. The raging river was calmed and tamed. There was absolute stillness in the valley. A small crack, a curve, appeared on the face of the mountain. A smile. Then, I closed that little book called \"Atonement\". Ian McEwan's masterpiece left me a man defined by his emotions. It was a breath-taking view I glimpsed but I fell into a pit of the darkest kind. I was a happy yet an unhappy man. The logical part of me was so astounded and amazed by that single confession, that act of self-abdication. The logical man was very impressed by that post-modernist ending. Yet, that man of feeling was abhorred and devastated. He was deftly crushed. I did not know what to say. Of course, in times like these, feeling is preemptive of thinking. One feels before one thinks. When the dust settled, all I felt was anger, then I saw the light. This is sort of reminiscent to Lolita. Where Nabokov uses literary artistry to, in a way, ask for consideration on Humbert's part. To mask the monster underneath a facade of beauty. McEwan adapts this concept in a different way. Instead of aesthetic artistry, though it is still present, the manipulation of fates and events become the central point of his undertaking. They both acknowledge the healing powers of the written word. Before the book even started, the reader is already given a Romantic novel quote--something out of Jane Austen's \"Northanger Abbey.\" This sets the tone for a book that will be packed with literary allegory. Even the form of the book walks the reader through some of English lit's historical periods: Part One--Austen'esque Romanticism; Part Two--Historical Fiction War Story; Part Three--Victorian or Modern Memoir; and Part Four--Post Modern speculation and theory. You see, McEwan's Briony cleverly concocted a covering of gold to a broken statue of clay. \u201cHow can a novelist achieve atonement when, with her absolute power of deciding outcomes, she is also God? There is no one, no entity or higher form that she can appeal to, or be reconciled with, or that can forgive her. There is nothing outside her. In her imagination she has set the limits and the terms. No atonement for God, or novelists, even if they are atheists. It was always an impossible task, and that was precisely the point. The attempt was all.\u201d Briony will never receive Atonement. But, I do believe that she has achieved At-One-Ment with herself if not with her readers, for she has done everything in her power to make up for her crime. \u201cA person is, among all else, a material thing, easily torn and not easily mended.\u201d If you consider the gravity of Briony's crime, the effect, the outcome, even when you put her innocence in consideration, one can't help but feel hatred for her. I admit, I did. But in time, the fact that it was the effect of a wildly imaginative ardor will soften the blow. Surely, atonement isn't for her, but sympathy is what she deserves and it's what she refuses to get. Some might consider her act of altering the story a Pontius Pilate act. But I admire her for it. She shuns sympathy even when she greatly needs it because she knows she doesn't deserve it. And though she might not be able to mend the flesh, she was able to conjure their spirit of love. Robbie and Cecilia might be gone, but their love lives in the memories of people who read their story. Much like Briony has etched herself in mine. I know what she looks like. I watched her grow up. I was there every step of the way, and I will keep a part of her alive in me until the day I take my last breath. But even then, that wouldn't be the end. Others will take her up in their memories and keep her alive. Sure, she might not be the same as when I envisioned her. But she'll live far longer than I. So the same will go for the lovers. Therefore I wholeheartedly agree with the excerpt below. \u201cBut what really happened? The answer is simple: the lovers survive and flourish.\u201d Literature immortalized their love, and that's all that matters. Not her Atonement, but their Love. ...more A beautifully written and cleverly told story of relationships, growing up, guilt and, obviously, atonement and forgiveness. The essence of the story is how a childish mistake, made in good faith (more or less) can have consequences for many people, for many years. Although it would be better to read this before watching the film, I\u2019d heard that the book had been thought unfilmable and so was pretty different, which ensured I was alert to reading it with fresh eyes. Part 1 is perhaps not quite a A beautifully written and cleverly told story of relationships, growing up, guilt and, obviously, atonement and forgiveness. The essence of the story is how a childish mistake, made in good faith (more or less) can have consequences for many people, for many years. Although it would be better to read this before watching the film, I\u2019d heard that the book had been thought unfilmable and so was pretty different, which ensured I was alert to reading it with fresh eyes. Part 1 is perhaps not quite as idyllic as in the film, but still presents a sharp contrast to the scenes in wartorn France that follow, where lovable Robbie is only referred to with detachment by his surname. Although powerfully described, I think the war section is a little too long, but it's a small quibble. What McEwan does so well in this is the way he explains the inner thoughts and conflicts of his different characters, especially Briony, both as a naive and self-centred teenager, and as a selfless and guilt-ridden adult. ...more 'I had written him a letter which I had, for want of better Knowledge, sent to where I met him down the Lachlan, years ago, He was shearing when I knew him, so I sent the letter to him, Just \"on spec\", addressed as follows: \"Clancy, of The Overflow\"' To borrow the opening verse of a famous Australian poem by Banjo Patterson, this is precisely what parts of Atonement feel like. A letter, written and directed to relatives wrongly accused in the hope of seeking forgiveness or at the least: atonement. A 'I had written him a letter which I had, for want of better Knowledge, sent to where I met him down the Lachlan, years ago, He was shearing when I knew him, so I sent the letter to him, Just \"on spec\", addressed as follows: \"Clancy, of The Overflow\"' To borrow the opening verse of a famous Australian poem by Banjo Patterson, this is precisely what parts of Atonement feel like. A letter, written and directed to relatives wrongly accused in the hope of seeking forgiveness or at the least: atonement. Atonement is one of the finest modern literary novels I have read, lyrical and hauntingly moving, while captivating the reader with an interesting story. As for the ideas behind this novel, they are profound. I believe this book alone is one which should class McEwan as a writer deserving of acclaim. I noted in the previous McEwan novel I read how McEwan had written in the first person present tense. In Atonement his writing is still a beautiful, if not more beautiful, but set in the third-person. And personally this works better in describing the events of the story. By the end of the novel the narrative does drift into first person, but only as necessary for the story's completion. For by the end of the novel the reader will see that this book is 'not written' by McEwan but rather by Briony Tallis herself as her testimony of a wrong once done. I thought this method of having Atonement be something of a book within a book was a brilliant meta-linguistic technique. Of course I did not recognise this until the end of the novel, which is when McEwan wanted his readers to see this fact. The novel focuses on Briony Tallis, a thirteen year old in 1934, who could perhaps be described as capricious and wilful. She wants the world to run according to her designs (as any thirteen year old does) and is a budding author, having been in the process of writing a play. This introduction to Briony perfectly places her into the narrative as a naive dreamer, a girl who sees black and white and then argues what she sees. At the story's opening Briony Tallis spies her sister Cecilia strip down to her underwear in front of one particular boy, Robbie Turner and so begins a dreadful misinterpretation, particularly when she reads a smutty letter from Robbie to Cecilia, as Briony suspects Robbie of committing wrong against her sister. (view spoiler) [This belief is confirmed to her when she finds Robbie and Cecilia in the library making love. (hide spoiler) ] When Briony's cousin Lola is raped, she reports that it was Robbie who did the deed, though he claims innocence. And so Robbie, one a 'family friend' is separated from his lover and a once loving family because she believes so clearly that it was Robbie. The themes of this novel essentially resolve around the conflict created from Briony's mistake. The question is asked subtly by the novel: can anyone be forgiven or make up for a mistake made as a child? The question is not should they, for I think that most people would believe that yes, an individual should be forgiven if they are truly sorry for their mistake. But the question asked is 'can they be forgiven?'. Another aspect of McEwan's brilliant writing is that he does make complOvex and solid characters in this novel who respond not to fairytale logic but rather who respond as emotional individuals. And as emotionally driven humans there are some crimes and some wrongs that we never want to right or forgive. Personally this element touched me due to my beliefs in God and that we all need someone who can unconditionally forgive, because I do not think that we as people can forgive every detail of a crime done against us. Or we may pardon them but never forget their mistake. We will allow mistakes to colour our perception of individuals. And from this perspective this was a great book, along with the writing, the characters and the overall story. Overall a piece of literature that deserves to be read and has been read by many hundreds of thousands of people. It's a potential classic in the making and certainly has to be McEwan's best work in writing. I encourage anyone who is interested in stories about unfair accusations and forgiveness to give it a try if they have not. ...more Okay, this is just based on the movie (don't judge), but... WTH. Two hours and then (view spoiler) [everyone dies but the lying bitch who lives to be like 90?! (hide spoiler) ] I watched Jane Eyre recently and wasn't impressed with that either. I'm totally cool with keeping myself in the classics stupid category and sticking with my smut and dystopians. Eff this shizz. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> Atonement is a post-modernist interpretation of historical fiction. How historical fiction is a kind of double fiction, a fiction within a fiction. Not that McEwan\u2019s intellectual mischief detracts from his gift for storytelling. For this is a compelling and moving story and it\u2019s not until the end that we are called upon to question the roots of storytelling. How all the stories we tell require a measure of illusion to sustain them. And how narrative itself is a selective process \u2013 brilliantly ex Atonement is a post-modernist interpretation of historical fiction. How historical fiction is a kind of double fiction, a fiction within a fiction. Not that McEwan\u2019s intellectual mischief detracts from his gift for storytelling. For this is a compelling and moving story and it\u2019s not until the end that we are called upon to question the roots of storytelling. How all the stories we tell require a measure of illusion to sustain them. And how narrative itself is a selective process \u2013 brilliantly exposed here when Robbie sends the wrong letter to Cecelia. The atmospheric ideal drift of life on a country estate replete with overly familial class divisions quotes early/middle 20th century historical fiction themes with a slightly troubling fidelity to clich\u00e9d tropes. For a while it\u2019s almost as if McEwan has gone soft in his old age. But it\u2019s as if he is working his way through 20th century British literature in this novel whose subject, beneath the ostensible one of guilt and atonement, is essentially narrative itself. To the clich\u00e9d backdrop of the country estate he brings in Virginia Woolf\u2019s floating impressionistic technique of creating biography, Lawrence\u2019s use of the repressed sex instinct as plot crucible and catalyst and Forster\u2019s showdown moment in the Maribor cave when deep seated submerged prejudice and crowd contagion convince everyone of guilt. It\u2019s almost as if McEwan is playfully writing himself into British literary history. The second part is all gritty realism \u2013 a high definition account of the brutalities of war. One effect of war is to scramble formerly sustaining narratives. This is what happens to both Robbie and Briony. His experience of blame and hers of guilt change. War provides Briony with the possibility of atonement in the form of self-sacrifice and bullies Robbie into understanding that holding one individual to account for his wretched fate is absurd. Both begin to construct a new narrative, no more true perhaps than the former. Because this is a novel about the enormous power but, at bottom, creative inauthenticity of narrative. We believe in what it is necessary for us to believe. ...more A masterpiece. Review to come. Is it wrong to review a book based on your much more lucid rememberings of the film rather than the actual text itself? Nah. Things from the film which were good: Keira Knightley has a nice green dress. I would like a nice green dress like that. Or to quote Jessi - someone has to get me one of those dresses stat! James McAvoy looks better in this than he does as Mr Tumnus the faun in Narnia. In Narnia his big wet weepy faun eyes made me want to shoot myself until I got distracted by Tilda Swinton's Is it wrong to review a book based on your much more lucid rememberings of the film rather than the actual text itself? Nah. Things from the film which were good: Keira Knightley has a nice green dress. I would like a nice green dress like that. Or to quote Jessi - someone has to get me one of those dresses stat! James McAvoy looks better in this than he does as Mr Tumnus the faun in Narnia. In Narnia his big wet weepy faun eyes made me want to shoot myself until I got distracted by Tilda Swinton's Amazing Ice Queen costume which was FIERCE. Here he wears a nice neat uniform and probably has averagely hairy legs. That Briony Tallis kid is the exact right level of annoying. And now back to the book: A childish act vengeance after the realisation that a childhood crush will never be fulfilled leads to a series of events which span decades and shape the course of one families existence. Split into four parts, Briony Tallis recounts the story with startling honesty and a clarity which only comes about with adulthood and a loss of innocence. This story is her Atonement. Tragic, poetic and one of McEwan's books which spans a looser time period. On Chesil Beach = a few hours Saturday = 1 day The Comfort of Strangers = a mini break. I like books which pivot around a core event which is essentially the pin being pulled out of the handgrenade. One which is so heart stoppingly unchangeable that you know it will haunt the characters for ever. A similar method of \"oh-my-god-if-you'd-only-not-done-that-then-we-wouldn't-have-arrived-at-this-tragically-remorseful-place-now\" style writing is also employed to good effect in The Story of Lucy Gault by William Trevor. If you liked this then go and get yourself a copy of The Story of Lucy Gault. ...more I'm sobbing as I write this review of this hauntingly beautiful, poignant and tragic novel. McEwan's writing is something I am completely in awe of- his uncanny ability to capture so many different worlds and minds within this tale is spell-binding. I feel left with the ghostly presence of all the characters- but especially Cecilia and Robbie and their love- and it is like the beautiful ghostly imagery of \"the luminous absence shimmering above the wetness of the gravel\", This book is a masterpie I'm sobbing as I write this review of this hauntingly beautiful, poignant and tragic novel. McEwan's writing is something I am completely in awe of- his uncanny ability to capture so many different worlds and minds within this tale is spell-binding. I feel left with the ghostly presence of all the characters- but especially Cecilia and Robbie and their love- and it is like the beautiful ghostly imagery of \"the luminous absence shimmering above the wetness of the gravel\", This book is a masterpiece and has a heavy weight on my heart (an ache that comes from reading something wonderful and heart-breaking all at once)- teaching me the inexorable consequences and possibilities that can come from hasty action and the hazy spectrum and blurred lines of the transition from childhood into adulthood. This is such an engaging exploration of guilt, coming of age, childhood naivety and intentions, the horrors of war, the power of the imagination and the human conscience. I look forward immensely to reading more of McEwan's novel and am envious of his way with words! Definitely going on my favourites shelf. ...more **NOTE: Spoilers included: I like the experience of reading a book and then seeing the movie, which is why I read this book. Both the book and the movie are highly acclaimed, so what could be a better choice? I haven\u2019t yet seen the movie since I just finished the book today, but perhaps I should have read \"No Country For Old Men\" instead. 100 pages into this book, I wanted to just give up. It felt like something that would have been forced on me by high school English teachers, with all the desc **NOTE: Spoilers included: I like the experience of reading a book and then seeing the movie, which is why I read this book. Both the book and the movie are highly acclaimed, so what could be a better choice? I haven\u2019t yet seen the movie since I just finished the book today, but perhaps I should have read \"No Country For Old Men\" instead. 100 pages into this book, I wanted to just give up. It felt like something that would have been forced on me by high school English teachers, with all the descriptive, flowery language about British aristocratic characters, scenery, and architecture in 1935 that I just couldn\u2019t bring myself to care about. Were it not for the knowledge that Briony was going to commit a crime (based on the back of the book), I would have definitely put it down. Even so, I thought the crime would have been something worse than perjury \u2013 taking approximately 170+ pages to build up to the crime better damn well be murder! (joking) \u2013 but nonetheless, her crime tore her family apart, which was bad. But still, taking up 170+ pages to describe one afternoon (as many people on this site have noted) was unnecessary. And even though the writing style was beautiful, elegant, etc., it seemed like nothing really *happened;* it was mostly thoughts, memories, and physical descriptions, much of which were irrelevant to the actual plot. Maybe that\u2019s just my preference for reading books in which the characters actually DO something and TALK to each other. I mean, don\u2019t get me wrong, a little description is ok and necessary, but this just took it to the extreme. I know McEwan was just trying to show the depth of the characters at play, thus getting the reader to care more about them and make the impact of what was about to happen more forceful, but he overdid it to the point of making me not care at all. I didn\u2019t think the plot of this book really needed such in-depth description. However, Parts 2 & 3 changed gears and definitely picked up; it was like reading a completely different book! I enjoyed reading about Robbie\u2019s traumatic escape from France during the Battle of Dunkirk, and Briony\u2019s experience as a nurse tending to the wounded/dead of World War II. Both sections were a refreshing contrast to the superficial, snobbish feel of the first section of the book (not that war is refreshing). One thing I thought the book was missing and should have elaborated on more rather than the tedious Part 1 was the immediate aftermath of Briony\u2019s crime. After the crime occurs, the plot immediately jumps to Robbie in France during the war, and we are told very little of what happened in the 3 year period of time between the crime itself, Robbie\u2019s prison sentence, and his eventual deployment. We know that Robbie had aspired to go to medical school, but was the outcome of the novel a result of Briony\u2019s crime or World War II? Even if Briony committed no crime, wasn\u2019t Robbie\u2019s being drafted to the war and eventual separation from Cecilia inevitable? Despite being unsure if the novel\u2019s outcome was the result of war or a childhood crime, unlike what some posters on this site have written, I actually liked the ending. I liked the revelation that the story was a novel within a novel, and an attempt at atonement that never happens in (Briony\u2019s fictional) reality. If Briony had went on to talk to her family, lawyers, and legally retracted her false statement, and then Cecilia and Robbie lived happily ever after and forgave Briony, the novel would have been merely a glorified version of Briony\u2019s juvenile The Trials of Arabella. Maybe it\u2019s just me, but happy, neat endings in movies, books, etc. sometimes just get old. Life is just not that perfect, and the fact is, seemingly innocuous actions in the present may lead to consequences that can never be redeemed. Overall, the length and weightiness of the first part of the book is why I only gave it 2 stars, but if that section had been condensed into, say, 50 pages or less, I would have given it 5 stars. ...more Una scrittura coinvolgente. Una storia emozionante. Che si pu\u00f2 volere di pi\u00f9 da un libro? Non conoscevo Mc Ewan, all\u2019inizio ho trovato qualche difficolt\u00e0 a prendere confidenza con lo stile di scrittura, a volte ridondante ma efficace. Poi sono stata sbalzata dentro la storia e non ne sono uscita fino alla fine. Il libro \u00e8 diviso in tre parti: la prima parte si svolge tutta in un pomeriggio, nel 1935, nella villa inglese della famiglia Tallis. E\u2019 la parte pi\u00f9 lunga, ed \u00e8 quella in cui tutto accad Una scrittura coinvolgente. Una storia emozionante. Che si pu\u00f2 volere di pi\u00f9 da un libro? Non conoscevo Mc Ewan, all\u2019inizio ho trovato qualche difficolt\u00e0 a prendere confidenza con lo stile di scrittura, a volte ridondante ma efficace. Poi sono stata sbalzata dentro la storia e non ne sono uscita fino alla fine. Il libro \u00e8 diviso in tre parti: la prima parte si svolge tutta in un pomeriggio, nel 1935, nella villa inglese della famiglia Tallis. E\u2019 la parte pi\u00f9 lunga, ed \u00e8 quella in cui tutto accade. In questa prima parte Mc Ewan tratteggia-pennella potrei dire- i personaggi, come un pittore impressionista, dipingendoli l\u00e0, nel giardino e nella villa: Briony Tallis, una adolescente di tredici anni che si trova in quello \u201cspazio transitorio che estendeva i propri confini imprecisi dalla nursery al mondo degli adulti\u201d; sua sorella maggiore Cecilia, incaricata di fare le veci di sua madre Emily, alle prese con tormentose emicranie; Leon, il fratellone amato che finalmente torna a casa con un amico, industriale della cioccolata; Robbie Turner, il figlio della domestica dei Tallis, bello e intelligentissimo, che ha studiato a Cambridge grazie alla generosit\u00e0 dei Tallis; tre cuginetti lentigginosi e dai capelli rossi, sbarcati contro la loro volont\u00e0 a villa Tallis a causa del divorzio dei loro genitori, Lola e i gemelli Pierrot e Jackson. Me li sono visti davanti, pennellati magistralmente, chi pi\u00f9 in profondit\u00e0, chi solo nei contorni, ma comunque sempre con maestria, come in un quadro. Nella seconda e terza parte l\u2019atmosfera cambia completamente: per rimanere nell\u2019ambito artistico, direi che il quadro che mi si \u00e8 presentato dinnanzi potrebbe essere \u201cGuernica\u201d di Picasso: urla, disperazione, morte. E\u2019 scoppiata la seconda guerra mondiale e Robbie si trova in Francia con l\u2019esercito inglese, in una marcia da incubo verso Dunkerque. L\u2019ultima parte \u00e8 quella in cui il lettore trova spiegazione del titolo del libro, \u00e8 il racconto del rimorso dovuto ad una \u201ccolpa\u201d inespiabile. Il finale \u00e8 geniale, e la lacrimuccia \u00e8 uscita. Il collante tra le pagine \u00e8 un amore grande, grandissimo, pi\u00f9 forte dell\u2019ingiustizia e della guerra, intenso e \u2026 bellissimo. Il legame tra le tre parti \u00e8 perfetto, quasi calibrato geometricamente, in una costruzione finale che potrei paragonare a un ricamo, dove ogni punto \u00e8 collegato strettamente con l\u2019altro per formare un\u2019opera d\u2019arte. Mc Ewan \u00e8 non solo un fine conoscitore dell\u2019animo umano, ma ha la grande capacit\u00e0 di trascinare il lettore e renderlo partecipe di ogni emozione descritta. Almeno questo \u00e8 quanto \u00e8 accaduto a me. ...more", "Title": "Atonement"},
