{"Comments": "<+++>Chasing the Devil: The Search for Africa's Fighting Spirit</+++>To get my one gripe out of the way first: - It might be a fairly stupidly obvious thing to say but the titles given to books can be really important; they might be the initial hook to draw us to pick the thing up in the first place, the crutch to keep us going and indeed they sometimes colour our understanding or interpretation of the book's content. With this book I found the title aggravating. I began to read it because I had been genuinely moved and amazed by the previous book I had read of B To get my one gripe out of the way first: - It might be a fairly stupidly obvious thing to say but the titles given to books can be really important; they might be the initial hook to draw us to pick the thing up in the first place, the crutch to keep us going and indeed they sometimes colour our understanding or interpretation of the book's content. With this book I found the title aggravating. I began to read it because I had been genuinely moved and amazed by the previous book I had read of Butcher's, 'Blood River' and therefore i decided to pick this up even though the title seemed a tad histrionic and sensationalist. Butcher admirably elucidates what he means by the 'Devil', but it grated because the title itself did not accurately describe what we were reading. The 'devil' is shorthand for the admittedly horrendous secret societies of the African hinterland, the main one he 'encountered' being the Poro. However, Butcher is not really investigating them in any sense in which 'chasing' would be an accurate verb. Instead,<---M> if anything</---M>, he stumbles across them and then encounters their total secrecy, the breaking of which is punishable by amputation, isolation and, tragically on many occasions, death. I know this will seem a ridiculously picky moan but there you are.<---F> Having said that i feel better</---F>. Butcher does writes a fascinating and very personal travelogue folowing in the footsteps of Graham Greene and his cousin, Barbara who walked the self same hike across Liberia in 1935. What Butcher and his three companions do,(The three companions being David, a Brit and two local men Johnson and Mr Omaru. Though local appears to have a very small geographically specific meaning in Liberia,), is seek to emulate as far as is possible the Greenes' trail. Amazingly they often encounter things dramatically unchanged or perhaps more depressingly, much worse after the years of coup and counter-coup, of violence and repression, of depressingly familiar embezzlement, corruption and short-sighted hypocrisy. The arrogant leadership of the descendants of freed slaves who ruled and, astoundingly, enslaved the native bush dwellers up until into the 30's when Greene was surreptiously investigatng this was finally swept aside by an horrendous bloodletting in 1980. Doe, the new Dictator was himself brutally murdered 10 years later after himself wading through the much mourned 'rivers of blood' and then Charles Taylor swept to power and it was he who finally destroyed totally the infrastructure and spirit of the Country. After the brutal civil war his ousting might have heralded a positive future but corruption and the power of secret tribal aliances and societies devestated even this small hope. Certainly Butcher enables his reader to see the power of these groups and the uphill struggle the wider community has to weaken or at least soften the power exercised by the shadowy leaders and his analysis of why these societies hamstring development was fascinating. \"It is a community-focused phenomenon, born from the necessity of surviving in the tough West African bush, and by its nature it stresses the value of the group over the individual, of developing at the pace of the lowest common denominator, not the advanced outlier. And it is this feature of Poro, and any other secret society found elsewhere in Africa, that condemns its followers to flatlining stagnation\" Obviously this quotation, taken out of its context, probably sounds horrendous as surely humanity at its best should develop by bearing in mind those at the lowest and most vulnerable points in society but the Poro do this at the expense of freedom and individuality and independence of thought. They impose it not through an overall recognition of the needs of the weakest but often by an intransigent maintaining at all costs of the power structure which survives through fear, intimidation and rank cruelty. It is a depressingly familiar story which weighs the reader down because the seeming hopelessness of the situation serves only to show how far Liberia is from a fighting chance of improvement whilst corruption and nepotism and violence still holds sway. At one point Johnson, a seemingly lovely bloke whose personality Butcher enables to shine through the narrative, loses his normal 'joie de vivre' as he passes through one isolated village on the hike. In a group of men who are idly sitting at peace and quiet in the heat of the day, Johnson has spotted one of the chief architects of Taylor's brutal violence and cruelty. This man remains at large, unpunished and quite clearly unfazed. He knows he will never be called to account and so, powerlessly, does Johnson. <---A>Tim Butcher</---A> is an excellent writer, he has a lovely turn of phrase and is a dab hand at the striking image. In an abandoned rubber plantation \"There were giants(trees) as thick as my torso, with boles as misshapen as recently-fed pythons\" . Having just watched one horrible scene invoving a python in 'Snakes on a plane' this brought me a lurch of realization. He writes with humour when appropriate and very movingly at others. His references to his own experiences in war-torn Liberia and also his third party accounts of friends' and colleagues' are genuinely poignant and striking. The sacrifices and deprivations undergone by the journalists so as to report from these places of horror and blood are often impressive and noble but the thing i most admired about Butcher's accounts was that he never sought to make their sacrifices out to be worse then the people of whom and for whom they were reporting. The journalists, though brave, could opt to not go. His account makes very clear his recognition that tragically the people on the ground, those most in need, have not the luxury of any kind of choice. ps. Just a quick word for the lovely pencil drawings at the head of each chapter. They are by Sally Stephens and they are enchanting. ...more Tim Butcher's second travel book offering takes the reader on our journey through west Africa in the footsteps of Graham Greene. He and his traveling companion travel through Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia by road, foot and boat, recreating a journey made by Graham Greene and his cousin Barbara in 1935 which eventually led to Greene writing 'Journey Without Maps'. As with his previous book Blood River, Butcher takes on considerable risk by choosing to make this journey in an area of Africa not Tim Butcher's second travel book offering takes the reader on our journey through west Africa in the footsteps of Graham Greene. He and his traveling companion travel through Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia by road, foot and boat, recreating a journey made by Graham Greene and his cousin Barbara in 1935 which eventually led to Greene writing 'Journey Without Maps'. As with his previous book Blood River, Butcher takes on considerable risk by choosing to make this journey in an area of Africa not well known for its political stability. Liberia is more well known for blood diamonds and child soldiers than for travel, and Butcher delves into its history as he traverses the land and meets local people. He introduces the reader to local culture such as the 'devils' mentioned in the title; sorcerers with magical powers that still play a very prevalent role in today's society. He also draws obvious parallels between his journey and Greene's, with particular witness to the fact that many of the villages he visits in remote jungles are much the same and no better off than they were 77 years ago. It is a journey very different from that in Blood River , but a bold and fascinating one nonetheless. Let's hope Butcher continues his adventures so we may continue to enjoy his work. ...more I love this writer and I loved this book as much as Blood River. For anyone interested in trying to understand some complex areas of Africa from more than just sensationalized headlines this is a must read. Butcher's analysis of both Sierra Lione and Liberia from both a contemporary and historical perspective is thoughtful, well researched and personal. Besides all that, it reads like a very interesting adventure travel book. In much the same way as Blood River, he uses his interaction with loca I love this writer and I loved this book as much as Blood River. For anyone interested in trying to understand some complex areas of Africa from more than just sensationalized headlines this is a must read. Butcher's analysis of both Sierra Lione and Liberia from both a contemporary and historical perspective is thoughtful, well researched and personal. Besides all that, it reads like a very interesting adventure travel book. In much the same way as Blood River, he uses his interaction with locals to better understand complex political issues, and a brutal legacy of war that could otherwise leave you a bit burned out. I will be thinking about this book for a long time to come... ...more This was a real eye-opener for me, as I had only a sparse knowledge of the region and its politics and history. Tim Butcher leaves you in no doubt as to the harshness of life in Liberia and Sierra Leone, but does so with warmth and humour in the face of immense difficulty. An enlightening, rewarding book, with a serious message to impart. While Butcher is a gifted writer, and I dig anyone who deepens my knowledge of Graham Greene, one of my top 5 20th century authors, I never could get past the feeling that he was using Greene as a flimsy hook to a rather contrived adventure narrative. The exploration of Sierra Leone and Liberia might have been deeper, absent the Greene connection. I also found the pacing odd -- so much on Sierra Leone and the very beginning premises of the trip, and then relatively little that lets us really get While Butcher is a gifted writer, and I dig anyone who deepens my knowledge of Graham Greene, one of my top 5 20th century authors, I never could get past the feeling that he was using Greene as a flimsy hook to a rather contrived adventure narrative. The exploration of Sierra Leone and Liberia might have been deeper, absent the Greene connection. I also found the pacing odd -- so much on Sierra Leone and the very beginning premises of the trip, and then relatively little that lets us really get to know Liberia, its culture or Liberians (even Johnson, Tim's faithful guide remains a cipher). It also seemed very odd that the book's \"deepest\" insight into West African culture -- i.e., the supposedly development-retarding, civil-war-encouraging nature of the tribal \"secret\" societies -- came from a conversation over beer with a white North American missionary. It's almost cliche enough to make me reduce my rating to two stars -- the man didn't get to know any Liberians, but he got the real inside scoop at a bar? But it was engrossing and engaging, and a bold enough stunt, so 3 stars. ...more After the efficiency, regulation, stability,economic sophistication and mega-success of Switzerland as set out in Diccon Bewes' Swiss Watching it\u2019s rather hard to imagine where to go next. It came to me in a flash \u2013 look for the polar opposite. There was a minor snag in that I had already found it some years ago when my reading group read Tim Butcher\u2019s excellent Blood River, an account of both a ripping Boy\u2019s Own Adventure, tracing the route of H M Stanley along the Congo River, and of the slow After the efficiency, regulation, stability,economic sophistication and mega-success of Switzerland as set out in Diccon Bewes' Swiss Watching it\u2019s rather hard to imagine where to go next. It came to me in a flash \u2013 look for the polar opposite. There was a minor snag in that I had already found it some years ago when my reading group read Tim Butcher\u2019s excellent Blood River, an account of both a ripping Boy\u2019s Own Adventure, tracing the route of H M Stanley along the Congo River, and of the slow and lingering death of the Congo as a viable state. It was scheduled as the conclusion of the book group\u2019s burgeoning fascination with the Congo, an interest first kindled by Barbara Kingsolver\u2019s The Poisonwood Bible and continued by Conrad\u2019s Heart of Darkness. Butcher, former Chief War Correspondent and Africa Bureau Chief of The Daily Telegraph is clearly a glutton for punishment; after the hair-raising adventures in a thoroughly dysfunctional state described in the best-selling Blood River, he sets out again to recreate the dangerous and ambitious exploration of jungle trails through Sierra Leone and Liberia undertaken in 1935 by Graham Greene as detailed in Journey Without Maps. Greene was accompanied on his trek by his redoubtable cousin Barbara, a socialite who made the transition from the elegance of the literary salons of London to the suffocating heat of West Africa with considerable aplomb. This was thanks in part to their trek being accompanied by an entourage of 26 porters, three servants and a chef who each night set up their camp with the tin bath, pair of chairs and brace of beds (at which point I was irresistibly reminded of the well-travelled bedstead which had such a starring role in Lady Franklin\u2019s Revenge). There were also hammocks to transport the pair when the going got especially rough \u2013 relied upon by Greene when he became perilously ill and it took Barbara\u2019s stoicism and practical good sense to ensure his survival. After the trauma of reading about the terrifying risks and insane rigours of Butcher\u2019s solo Congo trip it was a relief to find that this time he had his own retinue \u2013 David Poraj-Wilczynski, son of a former colleague and a recent Oxbridge graduate who\u2019d been dabbling (without much enthusiasm) in banking; the irrepressible local overland guide Johnson Boie, a former refugee who had worked for aid organisations as a tracing officer, re-uniting war-torn families; and the self-contained Mr Omaru whose trusty Yamaha AG transports the party\u2019s heavy rucksacks ahead to their daily rendezvous point. Mr Greene, who later became a World War II MI6 agent in West Africa, set out on his 1935 mission with a book contract and a more noble commission: to investigate the re-emergence of slavery in the two countries on behalf of the Anti-Slavery and Aborigines Protection Society. Butcher speculates that this may be an act of restorative justice \u2013 the Greene family fortune had been made in slave-dependent sugar plantation in St Kitts \u2013 and this book is enormously informative on the history of slavery in the region, back to the 18th-century when the dominant Temne chiefs had no hesitation in selling the prisoners captured in inter-tribal wars to white outsiders.Sierra Leone\u2019s origins lie in a plan cooked up in 1786 by the Committee for the Relief of the Black Poor (whose strange bedfellows included genuine utopian idealists, racist proponents of repatriation in the Enoch Powell mode, and slave operators who viewed London\u2019s freed slaves as potential sources of agitation that threatened their business).The Londoners were joined by former slaves who had fought with the British in the American War of Independence, and who had struggled with the climate of their post-war sanctuary in Nova Scotia, and with \u2018recaptives\u2019 -. Africans deposited there having been rescued from slaving ships by the Royal Navy as it patrolled to enforce William Wilberforce\u2019s slaving ban The bankruptcy of this first venture to establish the Province of Freedom as a black-run state led to its annexation by the British as a full colony. Liberia, it feels counter-intuitive to say, was less fortunate. It was the brainchild of the American Society for Colonizing the Free People of Color of the United State, a white-run operation of dubious intent \u2013 there are even suggestions that it kidnapped former slaves in America and forcibly transported them back across the Atlantic as a sort of ethnic cleansing. The number who travelled willingly was always small, and inevitably tensions grew between these transplanted coastal settlers who were encouraged to form an elite, and the indigenous inland peoples. Distressingly, once the settlement declared independence in 1847 \u2013 a century before this became the norm in the rest of the continent \u2013 evidence slowly gathered that the new rulers were turning the \u2018country people\u2019 into their vassals, and \u2013 in an act of ultimate betrayal \u2013 selling them overseas. Built on rocky foundations, the recent history of both countries has been tragic, with military coups, civil wars, brutal inter-communal violence, child soldiers and regimes of terror founded on the lust for \u2018blood diamonds\u2019. As a journalist Butcher had covered these conflicts at considerable personal risk, and his knowledge shines through in the clarity with which he explains the political machinations of the brutally corrupt and incompetent regimes of Samuel Doe, Liberia\u2019s first indigenous leader and his nemesis and erstwhile comrade Charles Taylor who also committed numerous atrocities when fomenting the earlier civil war in Sierra Leone. As he follows Greene\u2019s trail he becomes increasingly intrigued by the dancing \u2018devils\u2019 associated with the secret bush society, the Poro. The devil he firsts sees, with its long grass skirt, carved mask, and whirling dervish routine, sounds a lot like the sort of theatrical spin on traditional culture indigenous peoples around the world stage to charm the shekels from the pockets of gullible Westerners, and Greene thought that the power of the Poro had waned. Butcher \u2013 way off the tourist trail - holds to its continuing power, and remembers fetish-worshipping combatants in the civil wars buying into this ancient spirituality by indulging in ritual cannibalism, to gain greater battle strength by eating their enemies. He advances sociological theories on the structures and atomisation of Liberian society that sustain this malign force. He also reminds us how these belief systems can leak into our own supposedly rational and largely secular lives, reminding us of \u2018Adam\u2019 the ritually-slaughtered victim of the \u2018Thames Torso\u2019 killing. It was instructive to read this book while the UK was enduring its longest heatwave for more than a decade, though our constant gripes were provoked by temperatures 10C below those Butcher & Co routinely negotiated. Even as we moaned and fanned ourselves most of us spent much of the time in air conditioned offices, rather than trekking over the uneven jungle floor, burdened by daypacks and insects, sweltering under the canopy of trees, and on the look out for fearsome scorpions, psychopathic chimpanzees, and the constant throngs of night-time rats. As a tale of endurance it was remarkable, all the more so because he managed to find a couple of ancient tribesmen who had, as children, encountered the whisky-drinking, note-taking Greene party. I closed the book inspired to read more Greene, not just those of the famous novels I have yet to read, but also to go back to the short stories, particularly The End of the Party which I remember haunting me when I first read it as a teenager because, largely brought up with male cousins, it reminded me of the party terrors of our inevitable birthday games of Murderers in the Dark. Are children really still encouraged to play this malevolent form of Hide and Seek? I also feel that I want to know more about spunky Barbara Greene. On return to Blighty she described the trek from her perspective in the book Land Benighted, much of which seems to be available on Google, though my aversion to reading on screen may mean that it\u2019s better to track down a copy of its 1990s reissue as Too Late to Turn Back. As for Mr Butcher, it\u2019s three years since the publication of Chasing the Devil. Time for a new adventure, please! ...more This is the second book written by the author and least promoted among the three written by the author.But no way it is inferior .This book is a goldmine of knowledge as far as Liberia is concerned.The only problem is stressing on Greenes' travel and too much description about them (which sometimes bores the reader).The travelogue keeps you interested and simultaneously underlines the problems of West Africa and urges the international community to act.The best part is that there is an expressio This is the second book written by the author and least promoted among the three written by the author.But no way it is inferior .This book is a goldmine of knowledge as far as Liberia is concerned.The only problem is stressing on Greenes' travel and too much description about them (which sometimes bores the reader).The travelogue keeps you interested and simultaneously underlines the problems of West Africa and urges the international community to act.The best part is that there is an expression of hope for betterment as the journey goes on.This book might not go down as a reference book on Liberia but still it is a must read for anyone interested in Liberia. ...more Having read Butchers first book \u201dBlood River\u201d, I set to reading his further adventures in Africa with great interest. Right from the beginning of the book, I was happy to note that his writing had evolved to a more emotional style, compared to his first book, hence making the reading experience richer for me. Butchers writing seems more relaxed on this book - i guess not being his first book, he has nothing to prove to anyone anymore and as such is more free to convey through his emotions too? On Having read Butcher\u00b4s first book \u201dBlood River\u201d, I set to reading his further adventures in Africa with great interest. Right from the beginning of the book, I was happy to note that his writing had evolved to a more emotional style, compared to his first book, hence making the reading experience richer for me. Butcher\u00b4s writing seems more relaxed on this book - i guess not being his first book, he has nothing to prove to anyone anymore and as such is more free to convey through his emotions too? On the first chapter he sets the scene for his upcoming trip to Sierra Leone and Liberia, and leaves the delighted reader thirsty and impatient to read the upcoming adventures, this time following the footsteps of Graham Greene and his cousin Barbara (in contrast to those of Stanley in the Democratic Republic of Congo in his earlier work). While informatively shedding light to the dark history of aforementioned Western African countries, Butcher is constantly comparing the experience of Greene (an author that I adore) from the 1935 to that experienced by him some seventy years later. As such, besides learning about the history of these countries, the reader gets to experience two travel stories simultaneously; that of Graham Greene and Butcher\u00b4s own. This constant comparison, fruit of extensive research by the author, makes interesting reading and gives the book, and Butcher\u00b4s adventure, a clear lifeline that it follows. Butcher refers to Greene\u00b4s books and observations in his novel, and myself having recently read G.Greene\u00b4s \u201cHeart of the matter\u201d, a fiction novel also taking place in Sierra Leone, it was interesting to see some of the observations. I also realize, that I could have read Greene\u00b4s non-fiction work\u201dJourney without maps\u201d before reading Butcher\u00b4s work, in order to get a more complete reading experience. As Butcher\u00b4s first novel \u201cBlood River\u201d, \u201cChasing the Devil\u201d was a shocking read, a great combination of adventure and history and a truly educational experience for me. Butcher is a courageous reporter who managed to write an informative and well researched thrilling travel book on these two Western African countries, and I look forward to reading his future travel adventure work. ...more Using Graham Greene's 1935 trek with his Cousin Barbara across Sierra Leone & Liberia as a reference point, Tim Butcher engages the same formula as he did in his previous book, Blood River, in which he re-traced the footsteps of VIctorian-era explorer Stanley's epic trip across the Congo. Blood River was a towering accomplishment of adventure travel writing that hooked me on the genre of African exploration and led me to seek out further detailed reading on the Congo and it's history, notabl Using Graham Greene's 1935 trek with his Cousin Barbara across Sierra Leone & Liberia as a reference point, Tim Butcher engages the same formula as he did in his previous book, Blood River, in which he re-traced the footsteps of VIctorian-era explorer Stanley's epic trip across the Congo. Blood River was a towering accomplishment of adventure travel writing that hooked me on the genre of African exploration and led me to seek out further detailed reading on the Congo and it's history, notably the mesmerizing King Leopold's Ghost. Chasing the Devil once again hits the mark for Butcher. Combining a no-nonsense journalistic style with the best of travel writing and adventure storytelling, Butcher entertains with a mixture of anecdotes and historical and political insights into the West African countries of Sierra Leone & Liberia. Butcher' Devils are a combination of bush village magic men, Ancient tribal spiritualism, frightening tropical diseases and blood diamonds to name but a few, but above all the scarred and haunting memories from decades of conflict spawned by generations of incompetence, waste and corruption. The author is on a quest to gain an understanding of the origins of the pure evil that gave rise to so much barbarism, ritualistic cruelty and Human suffering. In essence, he is seeking out West Africa's heart of darkness. Butcher's demons are also the memories of his Jornalist colleagues killed in the line of duty, whose tragic deaths he seeks some sort of closure for by gaining an understanding of the origins of the conflict which they died covering. Graham Greene, in whose footsteps Butcher meticulously follows, feared boredom and mediocrity. Butcher's resulting work is certainly no mediocre travel book. ...more Tim Butcher is a former British newspaper reporter and war correspondent now living in South Africa, who has that knack for travel to places you probably don't want to visit. His previous book, Blood River: The Terrifying Journey Through The World's Most Dangerous Country, in which he retraced Henry Morton Stanley's 1870 trek, was harrowing (read it, too). For his second book, Mr. Butcher has chosen a part of Africa even less accessible than the Congo. Mr. Butcher sets out to cross postwar Sierra Tim Butcher is a former British newspaper reporter and war correspondent now living in South Africa, who has that knack for travel to places you probably don't want to visit. His previous book, Blood River: The Terrifying Journey Through The World's Most Dangerous Country, in which he retraced Henry Morton Stanley's 1870 trek, was harrowing (read it, too). For his second book, Mr. Butcher has chosen a part of Africa even less accessible than the Congo. Mr. Butcher sets out to cross postwar Sierra Leone and Liberia. This is the kind of travel book I love, an adventure in a place out of time, in a world where there are fewer and fewer places left to have such an adventure. As an American, I'm perhaps a wee bit less enamored with Graham Greene than Mr. Butcher's natural British audience (he was a reporter for the Telegraph). The Quiet American is as far as I've got with Graham Greene, with The Heart of the Matter still in my stack of to-be-read, but it turns out that's not important. As with Blood River, Mr. Butcher draws the reader into the immediate circumstance of being in the place, and actually DOING a few-hundred-mile trek through postwar Liberia and Sierra Leone. There's a particularly frightening section, and touching tribute, to two friends killed while reporting in Sierra Leone in 2000. Walking through villages with no commerce. Imagine you, doing it. Having no chilled drink for days and days because there is no refrigeration for days and days. I mean, imagine. It's thrilling and inspiring to be able to go along. ...more I am a child of Africa, growing up in Central Africa, well remembering how it all changed when the then Belgium Congo gained independence. After reading 'Blood River' I discovered Tim's other book about Liberia/Sierra Leone. These are countries of which I have little knowledge other than horrific press releases and I was interested to read some of their historic background. It is difficult to rate a book on this topic with a 'like', not the most appropriate word when reading of the cruelty of huma I am a child of Africa, growing up in Central Africa, well remembering how it all changed when the then Belgium Congo gained independence. After reading 'Blood River' I discovered Tim's other book about Liberia/Sierra Leone. These are countries of which I have little knowledge other than horrific press releases and I was interested to read some of their historic background. It is difficult to rate a book on this topic with a 'like', not the most appropriate word when reading of the cruelty of humankind but if you are interested in Africa, it is a good read. I rather admire Tim for tackling this walk, facing first hand the harsh realities of the civil war but getting to meet those special people who pick up the pieces and start afresh. One paragraph which really caught my attention: 'For those trying to make sense of modern Africa, Liberia has always been a problem. As an African nation that was not colonised by white outsiders, the example of Liberia undercuts those who blame white colonist's for all of the continent's problems. Outsiders settled in Liberia where they enjoyed disproportionate status but the country was never in the possession of a foreign power. By touching on Sierra Leone, a former white colony, and Liberia, never a white colony, I felt the trip allowed me to get away from the stranglehold of colour-obsessed analysis and consider their common problems'. Well said! ...more I enjoyed this book. Compared to Blood River it didn't have as many \"amazing\" revelations, but if you've ever wondered about these countries and the lives of the people there, their recent history, and their efforts to move past all of this, this book provides that. You get the same feeling as you read the first chapters of this book as you get from reading Redmond O'Hanlon or Eric Newby. This is partly down to the author's excited preparations and his need to explore where no white man has gone before, and partly because there is something old fashioned and 'of a previous generation' about Tim Butcher. This is by no means a bad thing, in fact, this is a book that is as much about questioning progress as it is about walking though a jungle. On the back cover You get the same feeling as you read the first chapters of this book as you get from reading Redmond O'Hanlon or Eric Newby. This is partly down to the author's excited preparations and his need to explore where no white man has gone before, and partly because there is something old fashioned and 'of a previous generation' about Tim Butcher. This is by no means a bad thing, in fact, this is a book that is as much about questioning progress as it is about walking though a jungle. On the back cover of my edition The Evening Standard describes him as \"really a Victorian\". He writes in the twenty first century, but he is a long way from cutting edge. His public school and Oxford education was hardly likely to put his finger on the pulse, his finishing school in New Zealand and his working for The Daily Telegraph. All are a little behind the times. His growing up walking the leafy lanes around Daventry (please re-set your watches to 1953!) he describes as \"childishly careless of the mud and wet\". Its almost the language of David Copperfield. The story is a good one. He is a good journalist and we get clear backgrounds of the histories of Sierra Leone and Liberia. Like a good journalist, he goes where there is a story to be told and he is prepared to hurt to get to that story. His research is thorough and is used to make sense and add meaning to his journey. It's a tough tale and a tough trail and Mr Butcher makes no secret of his ego or his need to be seen as the alpha male. This works better in Blood River than it does in this book. Here it serves to diminish the efforts of his companions especially David Wilczynski who, apart from once getting cross with a tribal leader and knowing when to keep quiet, has his contribution to the expedition noted by hurting his leg and not being able to keep up and, later, buying two umbrellas. Johnson Boie is something of an understated hero. He is a loyal and diligent guide who uses the money from the trip to buy the materials to build a life he has been denied by war and hardship. He adds great integrity to the book, as does the enigmatic Mr Omaru. The journey follows the route taken by Graham Greene and his cousin Barbara in 1935. The book parallels the two journeys. This adds interest. The author claims to know Graham Greene much better after the trek. As a reader, I didn't feel I gained much insight into this great man of letters. I want to read Heart of the Matter more than ever, but, given the choice on the evidence of this book, I'd rather meet Barbara. I sound critical. I'm not. The book is worth 4 stars. I don't think it as good as Blood River, but I've a feeling I may have under-rated that book. It is a very well told personal account by a very good journalist of countries we should know more about. If the BBC were to do a \"From Our Own Corespondent\" special and devote a couple of hours to one journalist and one story this would make seriously good listening. ...more VIAGGIO NEL GIARDINO DEL BENE E DEL MALE Se questo libro fosse un\u2019automobile, tanto pi\u00f9 per dove \u00e8 ambientato, lo descriverei cos\u00ec: 4WD (trazione integrale), ABS (Antilock Braking System), PDC (Park Distance Control), ESP (Electronic Stability Control), CC (Cruise Control), Boardcomputer, tettuccio apribile, servosterzo, sedili riscaldati, portapacchi, lettore CD e DVD, autoradio, interni in pelle, immobilizzatore elettronico, filtro antiparticolato, fendinebbia, controllo trazione, controllo aut VIAGGIO NEL GIARDINO DEL BENE E DEL MALE Se questo libro fosse un\u2019automobile, tanto pi\u00f9 per dove \u00e8 ambientato, lo descriverei cos\u00ec: 4WD (trazione integrale), ABS (Antilock Braking System), PDC (Park Distance Control), ESP (Electronic Stability Control), CC (Cruise Control), Boardcomputer, tettuccio apribile, servosterzo, sedili riscaldati, portapacchi, lettore CD e DVD, autoradio, interni in pelle, immobilizzatore elettronico, filtro antiparticolato, fendinebbia, controllo trazione, controllo automatico clima, chiusura centralizzata, cerchi in lega, antifurto, alzacristalli elettrici, airbag passeggero e laterali,\u2026 In modo pi\u00f9 sintetico, full optional. C\u2019\u00e8 tutto in questo libro: avventura, storia, geografia, politica, cronaca, autobiografia, suspense, sentimento, superstizione, paura, pericolo, violenza, guerra, mistero\u2026 un\u2019opera multistrato\u2026 assolutamente on the road, come nella migliore tradizione. La tradizione \u00e8 quella della letteratura inglese di viaggio, nella quale Tim Butcher si inserisce a meraviglia: centro pieno anche con il secondo tentativo (il primo \u00e8 quello sul Congo, \u2018Fiume di sangue\u2019). E va in compagnia di autori che ho sempre amato: E.M.Forster, E.Waugh, N.Douglas, R.Byron, W.S.Maugham, B.Chatwin, gente che ha trasformato il viaggiare in letteratura, in arte... Insieme a un altro autore, per me di culto, Graham Greene, qui perno centrale e molto citato, in quanto il viaggio di TB \u00e8 proprio sulle orme di un identico viaggio, percorso nello stesso identico modo da G.Greene in compagnia di sua cugina Barbara nel 1935. Stratagemma che consente a TB di andare avanti e indietro nel tempo, e, senza dimenticare di raccontare tutta la gestazione di questa parte del continente africano dal suo nascere al mondo diventando Sierra Leone e Liberia, fare confronti ed entrare nei particolari delle vicende degli ultimi decenni e dei giorni nostri. TB ama l\u2019Africa, la conosce e vuole conoscerla ancora pi\u00f9 a fondo, capirla \u2013 ama raccontare, spiegare e spiegarsi, crede nella comunicazione, pratica il miglior giornalismo\u2026 tutte qualit\u00e0 di cui io lettore ho approfittato e goduto e giovato. Adesso, Tim Butcher si \u00e8 licenziato da corrispondente del \u2018Telegraph\u2019 per avere pi\u00f9 tempo per scrivere: mi auguro che il prossimo libro arrivi molto presto, io ci sar\u00f2. ...more Tim Butcher is a former war correspondent for the Daily Telegraph and has covered many African conflicts including those that devastated the West African countries of Liberia and Sierra Leone in the 1990s. In Chasing the Devil he applies the same formula of reliving a famous African expedition that made his first book Blood River such a success. In Blood River, Butcher followed the trail of Henry Morton Stanley through Congo and in this book he chases Graham Greene and his glamorous cousin Barba Tim Butcher is a former war correspondent for the Daily Telegraph and has covered many African conflicts including those that devastated the West African countries of Liberia and Sierra Leone in the 1990s. In Chasing the Devil he applies the same formula of reliving a famous African expedition that made his first book Blood River such a success. In Blood River, Butcher followed the trail of Henry Morton Stanley through Congo and in this book he chases Graham Greene and his glamorous cousin Barbara on their 1930's expedition from Freetown in Sierra Leone to Monrovia in Liberia via Guinea. As all good foreign correspondents Butcher is an excellent writer and there are no dull moments in his narrative. His applied formula offers not only for adventure and travelogue but also for reflections and observations that arise from comparing his present day experience with those of the Greene and Stanley. Blood River was fantastic but Chasing the Devil is even better because the Greene expedition is more recent and provides for a clearer reference to the cultural and economic changes in the region, or indeed the lack of them. I felt the excitement of Butcher when he actually finds in the remote bush villages old timers who were eye witness to Greene when he passed in 1935. In a cramped, filthy, sweltering hut in Duogmai, the oldest villager Mulbah Oblee remembers to Butcher that Greene \u201d\u2026stayed a day. And he drank a lot of whisky. \u201d What I really liked about the book is the absence of moralizing and the total lack of development jargon that fills many modern books on Africa with hollow recommendations and useless advice. Butcher provides for a rather bleak picture of what is happening in Liberia and Sierra Leone. He applauds the fact that peace has been achieved with UN help after years of brutal conflict but has a sense that war can return any day as its root causes like huge inequality, corruption etc. have not been tackled. Nevertheless, Butcher is an optimist and he finds good in people. That feeling is transmitted to the reader and I felt uplifted and optimistic over Liberia\u2019s and Sierra Leone\u2019s future. I can highly recommend this book to old Africa hands and newcomers alike. ...more This is an informative, well-researched book, packed with interesting snippets about the places he goes and the Greene's journey. There's a useful side to Tim's being a journalist - wherever he goes, he searches out the most interesting people and draws their stories into a wonderfully woven tale of Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea. This tale, almost a collection of other people's anecdotes tacked onto Tim's own journey, gives a much greater sense of context to the tragedies that have repeatedl This is an informative, well-researched book, packed with interesting snippets about the places he goes and the Greene's journey. There's a useful side to Tim's being a journalist - wherever he goes, he searches out the most interesting people and draws their stories into a wonderfully woven tale of Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea. This tale, almost a collection of other people's anecdotes tacked onto Tim's own journey, gives a much greater sense of context to the tragedies that have repeatedly swept across the region. While the title might seem at first glance a bit sensationalist, I think it makes sense. He talks repeatedly about the power of traditional magic and ritual, and how through fear and loyalty this preserves Liberian societies' egalitarian communalism in a way that seems to make extreme violence more usual. Certain things that stand out when you think of the Liberia and Sierra Leone civil wars - cannibalism, ritualised brutality, black magic - make more sense when coupled with Tim Butcher's explanation. There is a sense of parallel with the Greene's journey, but what makes this book really interesting is the way he uses the Greene's own story to draw European history together with the modern West Africa. Undoubtedly, the slave trade had a massive impact on this part of the world and any attempt to describe it without slavery as a point of reference would be inadequate. That said, the perspective is almost uniformly European, sometimes even neo-colonial; those who would expect something a bit deeper - what Liberia was like before Europeans turned up, for instance - will probably find themselves disappointed. Still, given the scope of the book, it's hugely illuminating and readable. He also describes with an unerring modesty the conditions of the places he stays in and the details of the trek, but never gets too bogged down in how difficult it was, which it must have been. Walking twenty miles a day is a challenge under the best of conditions, but when it's through sweltering jungle with only rice and chicken to sustain you, this must have been much tougher than he makes out. In all, a fantastic read, and an educational one at that. ...more Tim Butcher\u2019s journalistic skills shine a transcendent light in a region of the world that is often misunderstood and misrepresented. His journalistic challenge of following Graham Greene\u2019s footsteps throughout the interior of Liberia and Guinea set the tone of a focused and mentally equipped adventurer; one who investigates the equilibrium of time and geography while analyzing and comparing his impressions and findings to various historical periods and socio-cultural perspectives. In this book, Tim Butcher\u2019s journalistic skills shine a transcendent light in a region of the world that is often misunderstood and misrepresented. His journalistic challenge of following Graham Greene\u2019s footsteps throughout the interior of Liberia and Guinea set the tone of a focused and mentally equipped adventurer; one who investigates the equilibrium of time and geography while analyzing and comparing his impressions and findings to various historical periods and socio-cultural perspectives. In this book, the author artfully bridges the historical periods in the region to his own personal experiences as a journalist during a trying time in the region\u2019s history. Tim audaciously reaches his destination while earnestly and compassionately educating his readership on difficult themes of the African historical experience. He takes us on a journey from his personal life, to the complicated history of West Africa and tribal spiritualism, and back again. To borrow from the nomenclature of minerals and precious stones, this book is a diamond. ...more TB's wife made him take out platinum insurance before embarking on this journey and no wonder. This as much a history of Liberia as it is travel writing and it's very enjoyable as both. The author follows the route taken by Graham Greene in 1935 and finds little changed in many respects. It's not as exciting as his trip through the Congo nor, arguably, as dangerous but it's just as shocking in terms of what we learn about the country and the daily struggles of the people. We also gain insight in TB's wife made him take out platinum insurance before embarking on this journey and no wonder. This as much a history of Liberia as it is travel writing and it's very enjoyable as both. The author follows the route taken by Graham Greene in 1935 and finds little changed in many respects. It's not as exciting as his trip through the Congo nor, arguably, as dangerous but it's just as shocking in terms of what we learn about the country and the daily struggles of the people. We also gain insight into Greene's character and his writing and you have to admire him and his cousin, Barbara, for undertaking such an arduous and dangerous journey before GPS, mobile phones, etc. TB is an excellent writer / journalist and I'm looking forward already to his next book, whatever that might be. ...more Another excellent combination of travelogue, history and social commentary, in a similar vein to \"Blood River\". This one took me a little longer to get into, as I wasn't as familiar with the Graham Greene back-story as I was with Henry Stanleys adventures. Again Tim paints a vivid picture of the heartbreaking brutality, corruption and poverty of 20th-21st Century Africa, but also of the positive sides of the African peoples character. Having done a few long treks in my youth, I'm in awe of his d Another excellent combination of travelogue, history and social commentary, in a similar vein to \"Blood River\". This one took me a little longer to get into, as I wasn't as familiar with the Graham Greene back-story as I was with Henry Stanleys adventures. Again Tim paints a vivid picture of the heartbreaking brutality, corruption and poverty of 20th-21st Century Africa, but also of the positive sides of the African peoples character. Having done a few long treks in my youth, I'm in awe of his determination and stamina in completing another epic and dangerous journey across Africa. Given how much I've enjoyed these two books, I can only hope for a third volume. Given the sheer effort and danger involved however, I wouldn't blame him if it doesn't happen! Highly recommended! ...more I really enjoyed this book. It is in some ways a little disjointed, as its very much a stream of consciousness writing, but the subject matter is fascinating. I love a good travel book and this is both interesting, informative and at times very funny. I listened to this on Audiobook in the car as I drive a lot, and it worked great for dipping in and out of. I had just finished listening to Bill Bryson's \"A walk in the woods\" about his time wandering the Appalachin trail and at times \"Chasing the I really enjoyed this book. It is in some ways a little disjointed, as its very much a stream of consciousness writing, but the subject matter is fascinating. I love a good travel book and this is both interesting, informative and at times very funny. I listened to this on Audiobook in the car as I drive a lot, and it worked great for dipping in and out of. I had just finished listening to Bill Bryson's \"A walk in the woods\" about his time wandering the Appalachin trail and at times \"Chasing the devil\" seemed like an extreme version of what Bill Bryson had done! Both books made me want to pack up my house and walk around the world though! ...more Another fantastic and engrossing read; sure, I won't remember the facts and figures, names and numbers but as with Blood River the feeling of being guided through the unknown, at least to me and many others, is captivating and I yearn for the true travel-ly bits over some of the history and background although that is told in an informative way that I never missed out either. I hope to use my knowledge of this text to capture the imagination of my new AS level Creative Writing group in September Another fantastic and engrossing read; sure, I won't remember the facts and figures, names and numbers but as with Blood River the feeling of being guided through the unknown, at least to me and many others, is captivating and I yearn for the true travel-ly bits over some of the history and background although that is told in an informative way that I never missed out either. I hope to use my knowledge of this text to capture the imagination of my new AS level Creative Writing group in September. ...more Mr. Butcher did his homework, on Graham Greene as well as Liberia. A difficult time in the life of this small country, which was begun but not colonized by the USA. On the same path taken by Graham and Barbara (his sister), a tale that means heartbreak for Liberians as they try to recover from 14 years of civil war. Chasing the Devil: The search for Africa's Fighting Spirit, by Tim Butcher is worth the read, even if one has never lived there. A very good read. Gripping, informative and enlightening. The dark side of sorcery and spiritualism is fascinating, very scary and obviously very real. i think this is a great book! What a well-written, thoughtful book. Other reviewers have already spelled out the journey the author takes to follow Graham Greene's journey, so I'll just say that the way the book is written is fantastic. Tim Butcher intersperses a lot of history (Greene's journey, the history of the nations involved, the civil wars of more times) with the account of his own journey. Excellent story-telling throughout. I had previously read Butcher's \"The Trigger\", which I really enjoyed. I did not expect to en What a well-written, thoughtful book. Other reviewers have already spelled out the journey the author takes to follow Graham Greene's journey, so I'll just say that the way the book is written is fantastic. Tim Butcher intersperses a lot of history (Greene's journey, the history of the nations involved, the civil wars of more times) with the account of his own journey. Excellent story-telling throughout. I had previously read Butcher's \"The Trigger\", which I really enjoyed. I did not expect to enjoy this one as much, just because the African continent does not have the allure to me that is has for others. That did not matter, though, as I enjoyed this just as much. Obviously I have to put \"Blood River\" on my \"want to read\" list now, and I also look forward to Butcher's next book. ...more I loved this book. Mr Butcher manages to braid together the history of the countries he is visiting, current affairs and adventure. This is done so well you feel the exhilaration of space, the edge of fear and the oppression of the jungle. As a lover of Africa, I am inspired to read more on Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea. Tim Butcher contributes to the renaissance of travel narratives that emulate stories of 19th and 20th century adventurers who set off into remote regions, reporting their tales back to members of British clubs, societies and newspapers that sponsored the trips. Butcher's travelogues follow the footsteps of these writers and remind readers why those expeditions endure in history and in our imaginations. His Blood River, as fine a page-turner as any fiction thriller, interweaves Butcher's own stru Tim Butcher contributes to the renaissance of travel narratives that emulate stories of 19th and 20th century adventurers who set off into remote regions, reporting their tales back to members of British clubs, societies and newspapers that sponsored the trips. Butcher's travelogues follow the footsteps of these writers and remind readers why those expeditions endure in history and in our imaginations. His Blood River, as fine a page-turner as any fiction thriller, interweaves Butcher's own struggle to survive an ambitious trek on the Congo River duplicating Henry Stanley's mission to trace the river's course to the Atlantic. Chasing the Devil, Butcher's latest book, takes the reader to Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Guinea framing his journey around the trip British writer Graham Greene and his cousin Barbara took in 1935,in order to understand Liberia's freed American slaves and their descendants who became slave holders. Greene recorded his travels in the book Journey Without Maps and Butcher uses Journey as the template for his itinerary. Butcher's works stand apart from others, mostly biographers, who write about these authors and their travels. He treks, stumbles, struggles through the same remote places and ponders the meaning of it all, as his role model authors did on their own expeditions. The duality of the original journey and Butcher's trip establishes multiple layers of complications and conflict. Quotes from Greene's account contrasted with Chasing the Devil's insightful observations of contemporary reality compel the arm-chair traveler so sure-handedly one might expect to arise from the chair with blisters on his feet. If character drives narrative, Butcher provides us with a cast of characters to push his non-fiction travelogue into a story arc with all the components of a hero's journey. His young companion David struggles to find himself post-Oxford when the expedition tests him. Johnson, the African guide to places he has never been, steers the troupe away from dangers like the mysterious Poro ceremonies and explains to perplexed tribal peoples the `why' of these white men's trek. Mr. Umaru, the taciturn, motorbike porter of the expedition's supplies, provides no first name but offers wisdom that comes from the clarity of his own goals. Each contributes and reflects back a depth of understanding of the narrative's hero, who is Butcher himself confronting the stages Joseph Campbell describes in his classic, The Hero's Journey. Butcher steps into the unknown, crosses the threshold into unmapped Liberia, where the Journey Without Maps becomes the map and faces tests and ordeals to advance the story until the group returns to the familiar, transformed by their experiences. The prize Butcher seeks--to understand the reality of these countries from multiple dimensions and gain a perspective beyond \"oversimplifying a complex situation,\" his journalistic writings often required of him--may seem modest. Readers who journey with him find their reward in the details and insights. Butcher cannot resolve, as a fictional hero might, all the challenges of his quest, but he awakens a subtle expectation that others, perhaps some of us, will continue this journey for knowledge and understanding of distant places that challenge the Western-imposed notion of nation state. ...more Having read Tim Butcher's first book Blood River about his journey through the Democratic Republic of the Congo after the war, I was delighted to read that he had a second book called Chasing the Devil which would follow Graham Greene's route through Sierra Leone and Liberia which Greene described in his Journey Without Maps. As with the Democratic Republic of the Congo, both Sierra Leone and Liberia have been recently affected by war with Liberia's civil war spilling into and devastating Sierra Having read Tim Butcher's first book Blood River about his journey through the Democratic Republic of the Congo after the war, I was delighted to read that he had a second book called Chasing the Devil which would follow Graham Greene's route through Sierra Leone and Liberia which Greene described in his Journey Without Maps. As with the Democratic Republic of the Congo, both Sierra Leone and Liberia have been recently affected by war with Liberia's civil war spilling into and devastating Sierra Leone. Butcher had spent time as a reporter in both countries covering the wars and following Greene's route would provide an opportunity to assess the impacts of the war on the countryside. During the time Butcher covered the war in Sierra Leone journalists he knew, Kurt Schork and Miquel Gil Moreno were killed during an attack and a third Yannis Behrakis survived. In describing the attack to Tim Butcher Yannis says: \" 'I took a long time off after it happened and of course there was a lot of questioning about the job, ' Yannis had said as we finished talking. \"But if you've been there yourself, you know what it is like doing this work. If you are the sort of person who is good at this job you are the sort of person who would most likely go down that road. You just have to remember the part that luck plays and that in many ways the best of us are just the luckiest of us. I got back to work on the ninth of September 2001 and two days later the twin towers came down in new York. Since then, I haven't really stopped.\" Following Greene's journey Butcher takes a bus through Sierra Leone and then walks through the Liberia jungle just as Greene did. This was a grueling, exhausting experience but Butcher came to appreciate the jungle more than Green appeared to: \"Like almost all other early explorers in Liberia, the Greenes soon tired of its jungle. The fuggy, closed-in embrace of the forest came to irritate them and throughout their books about the journey they complained about being bored, even stifled by the jungle. In a short story called ' A Chance for Mr Lever' that was set in West Africa, Graham Greene would write of 'the drab forest ' as an unkempt garden with '..nature dying around you, the shriveling of the weeds'. But on that mountain traverse to Zigida I felt completely different. I found the bush exciting and enthralling, a place of majesty and mystery. Butcher is exceptional at providing context to the places he travels through. The reader is given a snapshot of the people, the land and the history, which gives the story more meaning. As in Blood River, he meets many good decent people who are willing to assist him during his trip. Many of these people have undergone great personal tragedies during the wars. He is lucky to be traveling with two such men, Johnson Boie who walks with Butcher across Liberia and Mr. Omaru, who transports his belongings from village to village by motorbike. Butcher's impressions of the changes to the countries since the wars and since Greene's journey in the 1930's provide valuable insight to this little known part of the world. I believe that this is a valuable book for anyone interested in knowing more about Sierra Leone and Liberia. ...more Tim Butcher follows-up his outstanding 'Blood River'(down the Congo!) with a trek on foot through war-ravaged Sierra Leone & Liberia in 2009, shadowing the journey made by Graham Greene & his cousin Barbara in 1935, & the subject of 'Journey Without Maps' (1936). West Africa has always been a problem area for Europeans & with its uncompromising climate,its mysterious religions & its infuriatingly awkward & violent tribal politics! Tim Butcher enlightens readers with both Tim Butcher follows-up his outstanding 'Blood River'(down the Congo!) with a trek on foot through war-ravaged Sierra Leone & Liberia in 2009, shadowing the journey made by Graham Greene & his cousin Barbara in 1935, & the subject of 'Journey Without Maps' (1936). West Africa has always been a problem area for Europeans & with its uncompromising climate,its mysterious religions & its infuriatingly awkward & violent tribal politics! Tim Butcher enlightens readers with both cold fact & hot encounters with the people who have lived through nightmares & broken dreams, & are,now (2009 onwards),emerging from their fox-holes to try again. Tim Butcher tries to follow in Greene's footsteps (not always possible!) & meets people who remember their encounter with the famous writer (& spy!)& his cousin, others amazed that a white visitor would want to walk anywhere in such precarious regions of Africa!...& then to follow a tortuous route through jungle & deserted scrubland as mapped, sketchily, by a long-dead writer in the 1930s! I enjoyed the jagged conversations, the hit-&-miss itinerary & the utter strangeness of the native beliefs with origins lost in the tropical miasma & bizarre tribal superstitions. This is not an advert for back-packing gap-year students seeking cheap thrills in the developing world but a serious study & assessment of some of Africa's darkest areas in the aftermath of some harrowing human tragedies.This is not for the faint-hearted & pulls few punches. I felt an immense sense of relief when Tim & his young companion,Dave, came to the Atlantic coast at Monrovia in reasonable health & with all their limbs intact! A very worthwhile piece of travel writing, giving further evidence that Africa has far to go before anything approaching peace & prosperity is commonplace. But I was struck by the courage of individual Africans & ex-pat Westerners in their thankless struggle with the chaos & savagery. Tim Butcher acknowledges such individuals but clearly is dismayed by the lack of real progress more than 60 years after many ex-colonies achieved their independence.A sobering thought indeed.Graham Greene would be dismayed too. ...more This is the second book by Tim Butcher that I have read, the first being Blood River, the tale of his trip across the Congo. I loved that book, it was due to my enjoying that so much that I chose to read this. It is a similar concept, in this he is trying to replicate a journey made by Graham Greene in 1935. The second half of the book, which is the part where he walks through the forests of Liberia, is extremely intertaining to read. The problem is the first hundred or so pages, in which Butche This is the second book by Tim Butcher that I have read, the first being Blood River, the tale of his trip across the Congo. I loved that book, it was due to my enjoying that so much that I chose to read this. It is a similar concept, in this he is trying to replicate a journey made by Graham Greene in 1935. The second half of the book, which is the part where he walks through the forests of Liberia, is extremely intertaining to read. The problem is the first hundred or so pages, in which Butcher fills us in on his own backstory (he served as a reporter here during a war) and indeed the history of the country. Thes pages are quite hard work, I somehow wish he had been able to include thi information liberally throughout the book, rather in (what feels like) a rather solid, hard to digest lump at the start. It is fascinating, though. Whilst nominally ruling the capital, Monrovia, the government have no authority in the rest of the country, and in reality the code of conduct for the country is controlled by a group called the Poro, who are a secret society that nobody is allowed to talk about, and despite Butchers best efforts to obtain information, you only really get a glimpse of what they are about, although you are left with absolutely no doubt as to their power, and the consequneces for doing something that they have not sanctioned. It is a frightening world, and all the more shocking because this book is a contemporary account. So well worth reading, in places awesome, especially once you get into Liberia. I am even tempted to buy the original account of the journey by Graham Greene, which is still available, called Journey Without Maps. ...more<---C>Tim Butcher</---C><+++>Chasing the Devil: The Search for Africa's Fighting Spirit</+++>", "Title": "Chasing the Devil: The Search for Africa's Fighting Spirit"},
