{"Comments": "<+++>Harry Potter Boxset</+++>I had removed this review, which violates Article 2 of the Terms of Use: You agree not to post User Content that: (i) may create a risk of harm, loss,<---M> physical or mental injury</---M>, emotional distress, death, disability, disfigurement, or physical or mental illness to you, to any other person, or to any animal. Looking at the comment thread, it is abundantly clear that the review not only may , but indeed has caused emotional distress to several Potter fans. I would like to offer my apologies to these I had removed this review, which violates Article 2 of the Terms of Use: You agree not to post User Content that: (i) may create a risk of harm, loss, physical or mental injury, emotional distress, death, disability, disfigurement, or physical or mental illness to you, to any other person, or to any animal. Looking at the comment thread, it is abundantly clear that the review not only may , but indeed has caused emotional distress to several Potter fans. I would like to offer my apologies to these unfortunate people, who had every right to expect better service from Goodreads. But, despite the above, I have decided on mature consideration that I will attempt an experiment: I am reinstating the original review, hiding the dangerous and inflammatory content inside a spoiler tag. If you are a person easily offended by negative comments about Harry Potter and still decide to click it, then you have only yourself to blame.<---F> You have been warned</---F>. (view spoiler) [I got into an argument the other day with an articulate 17 year old Harry Potter fan - let's call him D - who wanted to know why I was being so nasty in my review of Deathly Hallows . What was wrong with it? I offered various structural criticisms: the ending is abrupt and unconvincing, the subplot with the Horcruxes has not been adequately foreshadowed in the earlier volumes, and the book as a whole is overlong and boring. D expressed surprise that I could call Deathly Hallows boring, when I'd given five stars to Madame Bovary and Animal Farm , both of which he considered far duller. The discussion continued for some time. In the end, I said I would write a review summarising my objections to the series as a whole. Here it is. As I said to D, it's not the books or the author. The early Potter books are cute and entertaining, and <---A>J.K. Rowling</---A> seems like a nice person - if someone's going to scoop the literary Powerball jackpot, why not her? What I very strongly object to is the way the books have been marketed. About 10 years ago, it seems to me, some clever people figured out a new marketing strategy, which they first applied to Potter; when that came to an end, the same methods were used for Twilight. Both series have enjoyed a level of success which is utterly disproportionate to their quality, and which is also unprecedented in literary history. Twilight clearly follows Potter; I've had several discussions about what preceded Potter, and the answer, everyone seems to agree, is that there was no earlier success story of this kind. Before Potter, there was no YA series of dubious merit that absolutely everyone read. I think it's uncontroversial that Potter, in terms of literary quality, is better than Twilight, but Twilight has been even more successful. At one point, the four volumes occupied the top four spots in the New York Times bestseller list. On Goodreads, nearly half of the top 50 reviews are of Twilight books. This is an absurd and unnatural state of affairs. Even though Twilight may not be quite as bad as is sometimes made out - I'm one of many people who have tried to defend it - there's no way it deserves this level of attention. So why is everyone reading it, and why, before that, was everyone reading Potter? As I said, I think it's primarily about the marketing, though I wish I was more sure about the details. Here, at any rate, are some thoughts. First, the publishers are aggressively using economies of scale and deals with third parties. They print very large numbers of copies, and they work together with movie studios, game companies and merchandisers to cross-promote them. I think it's particularly important that a large proportion of the books are sold, not at bookstores, but at normal supermarkets. It's well known that the cover price is usually marked down to the point where the supermarket is not in fact making any profit; they have discovered that they can successfully treat it as a loss leader. This is causing great pain to independent bookstores. Some of them, I have read, have adopted the desperate expedient of buying copies at supermarkets and then reselling them. Second, let's look at the content and style. Even though Potter and Twilight are fairly different in some ways, they also have many strong similarities. Above all, they are extremely easy to read, at every level. The vocabulary is unchallenging; the sentences are short and simple; most characters are one-dimensional stereotypes; the story is uncomplicatedly plot-driven; there are few references to other works of literature. You can read these books if you're tired, if you're sleepy, if you have poor reading skills, if you've never read anything else. They consequently have a very large potential audience. Third, they describe a comforting, emasculated world in which most of the things that make our own world so difficult and unpleasant have been removed. Most strikingly, there is no sex; in Harry Potter, which is supposed to be about fairly normal teens, no one masturbates, no girls get pregnant, none of them are labelled sluts because they've had sex with more than one boy (sometimes one is enough, for that matter), no one gets their heart broken and drops out of school or starts taking drugs as a result, no one is stuck in a dead-end relationship that they wish they could escape from, but can't. The worst thing that happens in either series is the sequence in New Moon where Edward temporarily leaves Bella. Meyer notoriously doesn't describe Bella's feelings at all, but just leaves several pages blank. Once, in fact not so long ago, most adults would have been embarrassed to be seen reading YA literature of this kind; to start with, the comforting word \"YA\" hadn't been invented yet, and they would have been reading children's books. Somehow, there's been a shift in standards. You look around you on a bus to see what people are reading, and you can be pretty sure you'll see at least a couple of people over 20 engrossed in Potter or Twilight. It's odd that this has happened, and I wish I understood why. In conclusion, I couldn't help being struck by the two books D chose to contrast against Potter. D, Madame Bovary is going to outlast both of these authors because Emma is a real person who experiences the crazy and contradictory emotions that real people experience when they are very unhappy, and as a result she behaves in a crazy and contradictory way; also, Flaubert, unlike Rowling and Meyer, took a great deal of trouble over his prose, and created some of the most beautiful and ironic passages in world literature. There aren't many books I'd call masterpieces, but this is one of them. And finally, Animal Farm is indeed an allegory of the Russian Revolution. More importantly, though, it's about how smart, unscrupulous people manipulate trusting, weak people. Tens of millions of people are reading Potter and Twilight, not because the books are well-written or interesting, but because the readers have been manipulated into buying them by the Napoleons and Squealers of this world. That's what I'm objecting to. Think about it for a moment. (hide spoiler) ] ...more I know I have specific reviews for each of the books, but I just wanted to add a general review, especially for those wondering what people, especially adults, see in Harry Potter. When my brother was in junior high, he lent me his copies of books 1-4. Maybe it was because I was seeing the story through his eyes or that I wasn't expecting much from children's literature but I was surprised to find how entertaining and well written these books were. They had that \"it\" factor where you can't put i I know I have specific reviews for each of the books, but I just wanted to add a general review, especially for those wondering what people, especially adults, see in Harry Potter. When my brother was in junior high, he lent me his copies of books 1-4. Maybe it was because I was seeing the story through his eyes or that I wasn't expecting much from children's literature but I was surprised to find how entertaining and well written these books were. They had that \"it\" factor where you can't put it down and you can't stop thinking about when you do. But you've read the first book, maybe even the second, and cannot comprehend how someone would label these books as their favorite books, especially an adult? That is because the amazement, the depth, the attachment is gradual. The power of this series unfolds in books 5-7, mostly in 6. You expect me to read 4100 pages in a series and not really like it until the end? No. Read the first one and if it's entertaining (don't worry about amazement yet) read the second one. While I love the 2nd book, it's not everyone's favorite, so if you like it enough, read the 3rd which is many people's favorite. Just please don't quit until you've read the 4th. Don't worry they're quick reads. The reason I pick the 4th is because it is the pivotal book in the series. If you make it to the end of 4, you'll have to read 5 to make sure the world isn't overrun by evil. And if you read 5, you'll have to read 6 to find out how Harry could deal with such tragedy. And if you read 6, well I have no doubt you'll read 7 at that point. It's not just the cliffhanger but the ambiguity of it. You're not sure what to believe anymore at that point. And then you'll pity all of us who waited years for a resolution. So if you make it to 4, you'll be hooked. I haven't answered your question about why I find this series so amazing have I? I don't have 4100 pages, but here goes my attempt to condense all I love about Harry Potter in 7 reasons for 7 books: 1. This story preys upon every child's dream to be something more than ordinary. And for all humans, it preys on our subconscious desire for there to be a little magic in life. Explain the curious and give us all something to hope for in a universe we can escape to where the rules of own do not apply. 2. There's bound to be a character you relate to: the emotionally neglected boy who wants to be anything in life, that funny guy who isn't the smartest or the best looking but he knows how to make life happy, the self-motivated brain who craves acceptance through brilliance, even the kid with overbearing parents who expect much. And even the ones you don't relate to become real people as you watch them grow up, mature, and find their places in life. It amazes me that Rowling can write each character progressively from an 11-year-old child to a 17-year-old one, keeping all their personalities straight and yet evolving. 3. Rowling never underestimated her position as role model nor her character's ability to shape children's life. The book is clean (minus one well-placed swear word in the 7th book which is written at a 17-year-old level). There is no sex or even heavy making out, but there are the ups and downs of relationships as well as the sorrows and joys of teenagers growing up. It's relatable. The main heroine is not stupid or boy crazy, but a girl with a good head on her shoulders. The characters care about school, work hard to achieve their goals, and are loyal friends to each other. I think Rowling made a point to include role models she'd want her own children to emulate. 4. The books are fairly well written and humorous. While I think sometimes Rowling tries too hard, her writing isn't bad by any measure. I could not endorse a series with cheesy, slow, over-the-top, sordid, grammatically incorrect, wordy, choppy, incoherent, nonsensical, or any other writing style that distracted from the story. 5. Each book is packed with page-turning plots. Very few places in the series ever drag and the slowest is actually vital to the storyline. The world has changed its consciousness to include Quidditch, muggles, and spell names because these books are exciting. In every book we learn something new about magic and we find Harry closer to his destiny. While we all know we are moving along to that ultimate battle, the entertainment in each book stands alone. I wouldn't have made it to end if I ever felt Rowling was trying to fill up space and time to make it there. 6. The story is deep and enduring. While there is a lot of description, the story flows quickly, and that description, wow, it's there for a reason. And yes it will take you 4100 pages to fully understand why Harry's cape in 1, Tom's journal in 2, the Potters death in 3, Voldemort's bond in 4, Snape's memories in 5, and Dumbledore's hand in 6 are important. And it will amaze you. The extent of Rowling's imagination, the depth of the story, and the definitive plan from the start. You will be satisfied that this epic tale had an ending and a plan and everything works toward that end. As someone who loves symbolism, I loved the underlying themes: the universal good vs evil, Christian themes, the parallels between the Nazis and the Ministry, the statements about activists, prejudices, and so much more. There is so much that encompasses these pages. 7. My absolutely favorite thing about this series is how it comes full circle. You start the series with a fun magical tale of a nobody boy who finds out that not only is there a world with witches and wizards but that he is one of the most important people in this world. Sure it's entertaining but it's not deep. Then you get to the end when you see that same boy as an adult standing in the same spot his adventures began and you start to see the story from other points of view. The second time I read the series I couldn't just see Harry's light-hearted experiences, but Dumbledore's careful hand as he guided and prepared this boy for a mission in life that not many people could handle. To see this small sad boy and know the sacrifices he had to make, somehow prepare him without letting him know the extent of the personal hell he will have to endure, and to love him enough to teach him and somehow be able to let him go in the end--well that is not a story a child could understand. That is a story for an adult. This is one series that deserves its hype and fame. The story pulls you along, the characters feel like friends, and in the end I could not close the last book without feeling like a chapter in my own life had ended. I cried. I couldn't be done with the series and I had to immediately read the entire set again to help get over my sense of loss at being done with Harry Potter. I don't get attached to many things and I cry over less, but this series is one that will always be close to my heart. ...more I\u2019ve been thinking a lot lately about why the Harry Potter series is so damn good. I love it. And it\u2019s had an incredible amount of success. Why? What makes it so damn special? Well for me, the answer is simple. It\u2019s so great because J.K Rowling knows exactly how to speak to her reader. She begins her story by showing the reader an incredibly boring world; it\u2019s reality: it\u2019s mundane, grey, tasteless and monotonous. So, in essence, it\u2019s everyday life. It\u2019s just the crap that every kid has to deal I\u2019ve been thinking a lot lately about why the Harry Potter series is so damn good. I love it. And it\u2019s had an incredible amount of success. Why? What makes it so damn special? Well for me, the answer is simple. It\u2019s so great because J.K Rowling knows exactly how to speak to her reader. She begins her story by showing the reader an incredibly boring world; it\u2019s reality: it\u2019s mundane, grey, tasteless and monotonous. So, in essence, it\u2019s everyday life. It\u2019s just the crap that every kid has to deal with, and adults too. Well, maybe to an extreme with the abuse and coldness that Harry receives, but you get my point. Life sucks for him. But then she reveals what every child longs for; she reveals a world of mystery reeling with the fantastic and wondrous things she writes. Under the normal boring world there is hidden a better world, a more exciting world: a world of magic. Thus, Rowling turns off the realism and starts writing fantasy, and this is where she completely grabbed me. Harry receives an invitation to a school of magic, a world of wonder, and to quote Roald Dahl\u2019s Willy Wonker, \u201ca world of pure imagination.\u201d Despite his rough upbringing, nasty experience with several bullies, his awful tutelage in potions class, and living in constant fear of an evil sorcerer who wishes to murder Harry and all his friends, he actually has a brilliant time at Hogwarts. He makes wonderful friends and learns much about life along the way. By the end he understands the power of love, the true meaning of sacrifice, and the follies of judging someone on face value. I didn\u2019t read this when I was a child. I read these books two years ago in my very late teens. I considered myself an adult. I considered myself mature. When I read these I came to the realisation that that\u2019s not necessarily a good thing. Childhood is the time when once is most free, and perhaps when the imagination is at its peak. These books brought backs lots of memories, memories of being at school and imagining a better world. As a child I longed for adventure. Being the fantasy geek that I was (and am) I wished for Narnia and Middle Earth. I wished for something more than the drudgery of everyday life. So I was a weird kid. I was a day-dreaming introvert, I probably still am. Well, my point is, these books reminded me of my inner child, and the wonders that run through fantasy and children\u2019s literature. I could go on to talk about the awesome magic system, the perfectly written characters and the brilliance of the plots of each individual book, but to do so would be to do an injustice to the wonder of the writing. I\u2019m going to be posting individual reviews for each book in the series at some point soon to explain more in depth things, and exactly what I like about each book. But, for now, I just kind of wanted to say that this series is awesome. So yeah, I think I\u2019ve done that. My review has somehow turned into a semi-autobiographical piece. Not sure how that happened, but I guess with some books, the books that move you and affect you deeply, you can\u2019t describe without talking about yourself. Some books stay with you, some books even haunt you, and some books become a part of you. Damn, that was deep, though it\u2019s true. Only a real book lover would get this. A great book is like a great piece of music; you hear it in your dreams and carry it with you as you walk: it becomes a part of you. And my inner child will always be inattentive to the real world and dreaming of a faraway place like Hogwarts. So, like I said at the beginning, J.K Rowling knows exactly how to speak to her reader. This gif says it all to me: ...more I've resisted writing reviews for these books for a while now, because it sort of seems like a pointless effort. Everyone knows these books, and there doesn't seem to be anything more to say about them. But then I figured, why not add my two cents? So here we go: I am a member of what I'll call \"the Harry Potter generation\" - ie, I was a kid when these books first came out, and I've literally grown up with the series. My best friend in elementary school gave me Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Sto I've resisted writing reviews for these books for a while now, because it sort of seems like a pointless effort. Everyone knows these books, and there doesn't seem to be anything more to say about them. But then I figured, why not add my two cents? So here we go: I am a member of what I'll call \"the Harry Potter generation\" - ie, I was a kid when these books first came out, and I've literally grown up with the series. My best friend in elementary school gave me Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone for my twelfth birthday, and I was hooked immediately. The seventh book came out only a couple months after I had turned eighteen. Because of this, there was never more than a year or so difference between my age and the ages of the characters I was reading about. I'm only just starting to appreciate what a special experience this was. In light of this, I've decided to give myself a summer project (in addition to The List, which I continue to hack away at). My goal for this summer is to re-read the entire series, one book right after the other. It's been at least five years since I read the first three books, and I never went back to re-read the seventh book once I'd ripped through it in three days right after it came out. Writing reviews of the books as I read them strikes me as a pointless and overly time-consuming job, so I decided to try something else. In the tradition of my abridged Shakespeare reviews, I'll review the Harry Potter books by writing a single-sentence plot summary for each book. We'll see how it goes. (spoilers should be expected, obviously, but frankly if you haven't read these books by now you probably don't care that much about someone ruining the ending) - Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone : Harry Potter skips off to wizard school, and millions of children read about this and are cruelly made aware of the soul-crushing mediocrity of the lameass real world they are forced to inhabit. - The Chamber of Secrets : Trouble starts its yearly brewing at Hogwarts, and we're expected to believe several increasingly improbable things - that three kids who aren't even old enough to get into a PG-13 movie solve a mystery that stumps Albus freaking Dumbledore, Hagrid is sixty-three, and the word \"Mudblood\" is somehow a more effective insult than \"motherfucker.\" - The Prisoner of Azkaban : Harry finds out he has a cool living relative who doesn't hate him, and the universe responds by delivering yet another bitch slap to the face and fucks it all up, AGAIN. - The Goblet of Fire : Hogwarts hosts the conveniently-reinstated Junior Wizard Death Olympics, and the laws of the universe are once again suspended so Harry Potter can be awesome. - The Order of the Phoenix : ANGST. - The Half-Blood Prince : We break from the usual magical fiascos for some Gossip Girl-esque romantic drama, and Harry and Ginny decide to hook up - four years later, and I am still not okay with this. - The Deathly Hallows (which will get more than one sentence so I can discuss the infamous Epilogue): I'll paraphrase one of my friends, who said after finishing the book, \"What the hell kind of crappy fan fic ending was that ?\" And she has a point. But dammit, this is one thing I just can't be cynic about. Screw you all; that boy deserved a happy ending. ...more Aparecium! How to choose a single book in the Harry Potter saga? How to choose a part of something that needs each part to generate the expected impact? I was precisely trying to choose one book to use as example in my \"favorites\" virtual shelf but I realize that not matter which book would I chose, it would feel \"incomplete\". So I think that the better way is to add this complete edition including the seven novels to use it in my \"favorites\" virtual shelf. The rating to the collection is basica Aparecium! How to choose a single book in the Harry Potter saga? How to choose a part of something that needs each part to generate the expected impact? I was precisely trying to choose one book to use as example in my \"favorites\" virtual shelf but I realize that not matter which book would I chose, it would feel \"incomplete\". So I think that the better way is to add this complete edition including the seven novels to use it in my \"favorites\" virtual shelf. The rating to the collection is basically the average result combining the seven ratings. There will be books written about Harry. Every child in the world will know his name. The Harry Potter novels are truly special to me, since it was \"return\" to reading for me. I've been a reader all my life, but there were like a \"hole\" for a couple of years when I wasn't reading anything and certainly it wasn't something good since reading is really important to me and an essential part of myself. I had already watched four films of Harry Potter when finally I decided to read the novels. I have to thank a friend that he insisted in lending me the first book. Odd enough, he had it on English language while he didn't read English (at least at that time), so he told me that he was glad that somebody was actually reading the book. (He already had read the first 4 books but in Spanish language). I am not a fan of borrowing books and also I don't like that people lend me books, basically for not being in situation where I may feel obliged to borrow some of my books returning the favor. However, since he insisted so much and I knew that he won't ask me for any of my books, finally I accepted. SOMETHING REALLY MAGICAL STARTS THEN!!! Wow! I enjoyed a lot the first book, so after that, I started to buy by my own, the following books, even when I already read the seven books, finally I bought my own copy of the first novel to complete the collection. As far as I remember I was able of not having to wait any novel until the final seventh book (such a long wait for that final novel!!!). I ran to the book store to buy it on the very day that it was out and I read it in like 3 days to avoid that somebody would spoil me something crutial or some news on papers and/or internet would spoil a key detail. A reading odyssey of like two years for me. The Philosopher's Stone (5 stars rating) It takes a great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to stand up to our friends. Truly magical experience where J.K. Rowling, the author, was able to merge such fantastic world with wizards, witches and other paranormal beings with the real experience of parents and kids when they are going to school, needing to get school supplies, books, equipment, etc... Along with all these, the forging a honest and strong friendship between three great characters. And a good thing is that I didn't need to wait years to know how to pronounce the name of Hermione! :D Hermione rules!!! The Chamber of Secrets (4 stars rating) It is our choices\u2026 that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities. Maybe I am not fair with my rating on the second book, since the story is quite awesome indeed. I have to admit that my main reason of taking away a star is something involved with Ron Weasley, I can't detail to avoid a spoiler, but I can say that well, I am not much fan of Ron, sorry, what can I say? So, since he got a prominent role at some point here, well, I miss the one that isn't there at that moment. The Prisoner of Azkaban (5 stars rating) Happiness can be found, even in the darkest of times, if one only remembers to turn on the light. Easily the strongest book of the whole bunch. Not only it has a truly well crafted mystery but also, you will amaze to realize how a lot of elements presented in the previous books are explained the reason of existing here in this novel and all is turning around of a character. The Goblet of Fire (5 stars rating) If you want to know what a man\u2019s like, take a good look at how he treats his inferiors, not his equals. Awesome book where the magical world just got bigger and better. You get to know that not only at UK there are wizards and witches but also in other countries. Also, you realize that while the characters have faced dangerous situations before, well, they will have to realize that things are not a game anymore and there will be consequences and dealing with events that they can't be undone. The Order of the Phoenix (4 stars rating) Things we lose have a way of coming back to us in the end, if not always in the way we expect. Maybe another unfair rating. I felt the need of taking away a star just because to reflect the high levels of stress that I suffered while reading this book. Honestly, I really felt \"trapped\" by it. Hogwarts becomes an awful place to live. There are several really cool scenes. There are moments of wonderful amazement. And of course, you get new wonderful characters too. Luna and Tonks rule! However things became so dark and awful at Hogwarts that I really got stressed each time that I was returning to the book. The Half-Blood Prince (5 stars rating) People find it far easier to forgive others for being wrong than being right. I don't know, but I think that I was so stressed on the fifth book that that reading the sixth book was a truly joyful experience. Really, I think that it can be the book in the saga that I enjoyed the most to read. Love is in the air on the book. Wasted characters so far, they are able to shine in their own way each. You get to know the tragic but truly interesting past of Lord Voldemort that certainly it didn't justify his actions but indeed they give a lot of depth to the character. The Deathly Hallows (3 stars rating) Do not pity the dead, Harry. Pity the living, and, above all those who live without love. I don't know if there was the \"pressure\" of reading the book as quickly as possible to avoid any spoiler (since it was worldwide news the final book of the saga) or that the development of the story was tedious at some points, or the many stuff that J.K Rowling left unexplained on the saga, but at the end, this book is without a doubt the novel that I enjoy the least in the whole saga. I suppose that endings are a sad moment, you have enoying so much reading the saga that knowing that finally you get to the closing of it, you didn't want to end. I AM TRULY GLAD OF HAVING READ THIS MAGICAL SAGA AND I RECOMMEND IT TO ANYONE!!! ...more A truly seven masterful works of fiction.. Some Harry Potter Facts: I am an absolute Harry Potter fan. I picked up the series when I was in college and was blown away by this mesmerizing and page-turning \"children's book\". J.K. Rowling is an absolute genius. I've always had an active imagination, and this world was so easy to enter. In fact, the world Rowling creates in Harry Potter is so real that I often find myself - and this is scary to admit - believing I can do magic. (Seriously, I once tried the Accio spell on my cell phone and was annoyed when I realized I am an absolute Harry Potter fan. I picked up the series when I was in college and was blown away by this mesmerizing and page-turning \"children's book\". J.K. Rowling is an absolute genius. I've always had an active imagination, and this world was so easy to enter. In fact, the world Rowling creates in Harry Potter is so real that I often find myself - and this is scary to admit - believing I can do magic. (Seriously, I once tried the Accio spell on my cell phone and was annoyed when I realized I wasn't advanced enough to do non-verbal spells and needed my wand...) When I read this series I laugh out loud, gasp in terror, sputter in anger, sigh with romance, cry in sadness, and smile with joy. This will definitely be a series I enjoy throughout my lifetime, reading them both on my own and with my children. In fact, I love Harry Potter so much, that I named my car \"Hermione\" and have a picture of Emma Watson hanging from review mirror. Yeah, I know, I'm crazy... ...more No books have influenced me the way the Harry Potter series has. It shaped me as a child, as a teenager, as a young adult, and it shaped me as a person. I don't know why. I don't know what magic they hold that makes me overlook every flaw they might have, I don't know why it was these books specifically. I can't explain it. All I know is that these books came into my life and lit up my soul in a way that I never knew was possible. Years and years later, I still re-read them and sink into that wo No books have influenced me the way the Harry Potter series has. It shaped me as a child, as a teenager, as a young adult, and it shaped me as a person. I don't know why. I don't know what magic they hold that makes me overlook every flaw they might have, I don't know why it was these books specifically. I can't explain it. All I know is that these books came into my life and lit up my soul in a way that I never knew was possible. Years and years later, I still re-read them and sink into that world and I just feel so alive. Hogwarts is my childhood, it is my shelter, it is my home, and it is so much more. Its influence goes beyond the page and I carry it like an amulet in my daily life. The way I perceive and question the outside world is intrinsically linked to the series: I sort the people I meet according to the Houses I think they belong in, I feel more pride at the idea of being a Gryffindor than for any other organization in the real world, and my fear of death has greatly dimmed - which, honestly, is an accomplishment I didn't think a book could ever achieve. If you've never read them, I feel sorry for you. I really do. My heart actually sinks in my chest a little every time that happens because... you're missing out on so many great things, and goddammit, just exactly what are you waiting for? What are you possibly doing with your life that you've postponed for so many years the reading of the best series of the century? It's not like they're a secret! EVERYONE knows about them! There's a reason its impact was so magistral on the world. Anyways. So it seemed incredible and wrong that I only had a rating, and no review for these books, not when they're so important to me. Also, if you're still not convinced about how much of a hopeless groupie I am, one time I got really drunk on red wine and I ended up sobbing (LEGIT sobbing) because I actually ached from not being at Hogwarts. There's my 5 star rating if I've ever seen one. ...more This is a review for the HP series as a whole, not this particular boxset. Overall, I loved the series. The biggest thing for me was the world Rowling created and all the imagination that went into it. Strip away the world and you've got a fairly good storyline/mystery and some good characters. But it is the fantasy world that elevates this series for me. I remember reading the first book and thinking, \"Rowling presents a new invention on almost every page!\" Imagine how long a list would be of al This is a review for the HP series as a whole, not this particular boxset. Overall, I loved the series. The biggest thing for me was the world Rowling created and all the imagination that went into it. Strip away the world and you've got a fairly good storyline/mystery and some good characters. But it is the fantasy world that elevates this series for me. I remember reading the first book and thinking, \"Rowling presents a new invention on almost every page!\" Imagine how long a list would be of all the imaginative elements she used in this series. Many things she created; others she borrowed or developed. Quidditch, womping willows, pensieves, Marauder's Maps, multiflavored beans, living paintings, howlers.... As for creatures, she's got most of the Monster Manual covered. All of this, for me, was the magic of this series. There's been a lot of talk about Rowling's writing ability. By making one little distinction, I think the answer is much clearer. As a prose writer, she is average or better. As a storyteller, she is excellent. I think her prose does a fine job. It makes the world and the characters vivid in the reader's mind. But Rowling's storytelling is above my own reproach. I can't cast a stone until I've written something that spawns millions of discussions and hundreds of commentaries and \"What Will Happen Next?\" books. Why was/is Harry Potter a phenomenon? First, these are excellent books. But this isn't the whole reason why the series was a phenomenon--there are other excellent books out there which get only a fraction of the amount of attention. I think one big reason is because it is a seven-book series. Where were all the midnight release parties for book 2? book 3? The momentum started to pick up when book 4 came out. Then it snowballed until book 7. If this was a three-book series it would have been big, but no phenomenon. Another reason for the phenomenon was its broad appeal--kids, teens, adults, fantasy-lovers and non fantasy-lovers. In contrast, the Wheel of Time series is also excellent and a long, momentum-building series, but its appeal is significantly narrower. Favorite of the series: The Goblet of Fire . ...more Right before the last installment came out, I went to the public library and checked out the first book in the series, and didn't stop until I had closed the final one. It took me about two and a half months, but I read the whole series from start to finish. Say what you will about the story, the characters, the writing, but from my experience in child care over the last five years, I can assure you that it is not all too common to see a child toting a book under their arm, waiting for three minu Right before the last installment came out, I went to the public library and checked out the first book in the series, and didn't stop until I had closed the final one. It took me about two and a half months, but I read the whole series from start to finish. Say what you will about the story, the characters, the writing, but from my experience in child care over the last five years, I can assure you that it is not all too common to see a child toting a book under their arm, waiting for three minutes of \"down time\" so they can happily plant their nose between the pages, but it is so much more rare that if you do see one, that the book is not Harry Potter. So when people hail this series as \"The story that got America's youth to start reading again,\" I don't protest. And I have noticed a surge. There's the Series Of Unfortunate Events, and the Spiderwick Chronicles. Kids are reading more. It makes me excited to stock my (at work) shelves with the Chronicles of Narnia and the Dark Is Rising series. And yeah, I really enjoyed reading Harry Potter, too. ...more ICSE Board schools in India to include Harry Potter as a part of their English syllabus. Take me back to school, please!!! *fangirling hard* I wish it wasn't over! I love Harry Potter. I AM A POTTERHEAD. So for me, these would be the best books ever!!! No matter how other \"cool\" people would say that I am a geek and even too old for those books, who cares, I'm even proud of it! I know I have just read this series when I was in high school, and I just borrowed my classmate's books then, yet I am still proud to say that IT DEFINITELY CHANGED MY LIFE. Ever since I was in elementary school, I have always loved reading, and yet at some point, and I forgot how, I suddenly stopped. And I AM A POTTERHEAD. So for me, these would be the best books ever!!! No matter how other \"cool\" people would say that I am a geek and even too old for those books, who cares, I'm even proud of it! I know I have just read this series when I was in high school, and I just borrowed my classmate's books then, yet I am still proud to say that IT DEFINITELY CHANGED MY LIFE. Ever since I was in elementary school, I have always loved reading, and yet at some point, and I forgot how, I suddenly stopped. And when I got hold of these books from my friend, I knew I held something special and different. After reading all of the 7 books my friend lent me, I was smitten. I didn't stop to think twice and bought a box set of these books at one of the book fairs in our school because I said to myself: I've got to own all of these books! I remembered asking my parents for the money to buy that box set as my Christmas gift, even though it was only the month of August back then. Sorry, I just had to have them! :)) And thank goodness I did, because I became a part of a phenomenon, the Harry Potter Generation! I can't even find the words to justify why I love Harry Potter because there's just so many reasons. For one, I love Hogwarts and this whole magical world that JK Rowling has so graciously brought upon all of us who has read this series. Second, the way Rowling told us a story so easy to relate with and love, and which had made me laughing, crying, scared, and smile by the end of each book! Lastly, all those innumerable amount of quotes, experiences, and lessons that I have learned out of this book. I have learned the value of unconditional love through Harry's parents and actually a lot of other characters also; the power of true friendship through Ron, Hermione, and Harry, and even the Order; the value of family through the Weasley's; and the yearning for forgiveness, courage, wisdom, and happiness amidst all the chaos that may have been happening in our lives. In short, it was a fantastic and magical escape from this maddening world we're living in. I know I am no writer that could convince everyone of how amazing the harry potter books are, in the end it still is up to the reader. But let me tell you this, give it a chance, and I promise you it'll give more than what you're expecting. By the end of those 7 books, I didn't feel like I've finished another story, it felt like a chapter of my life has also ended and that I had to say goodbye to a new-found special friend. I've experienced a whole lot more than a \"book and movie hangover\". I literally cried after reading the last book and watching the final movie. Yes, I was that kind of shattered. So thank goodness JK Rowling's left us with words that I hold dear in my heart and I know I would remember whenever I miss Harry Potter... Because once a Potterhead, ALWAYS a Potterhead. ...more You know those annoying kids who go to the movies to watch any Harry Potter movie at the earliest hour possible, dressed in hogwarts robes, speaking with a British accent and claiming to be in Gryffindor? Or those kids who immediately jump into a conversation involving Harry Potter and inform everyone of all they know on the topic? Yeah, well. I'm one of them. Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone - \u2611 \u2736\u2736\u2736\u2736\u2606 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - \u2611 \u2736\u2736\u2736\u2736\u2606 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - \u2611 \u2736\u2736\u2736\u2736\u2736 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - \u2611 \u2736\u2736\u2736\u2736\u2606 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - \u2611 \u2736\u2736\u2736\u2736\u2736 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince - \u2611 \u2736\u2736\u2736\u2736\u2736 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - \u2611 \u2736\u2736\u2736\u2736\u2736 I wanna go to Hogwarts! I have read the books AND listened to them on CD. Here's the story of how I became a fan of HP: I am an avid reader and years ago, when the Harry Potter books first came to the U.S. and caused such a sensation, I resisted reading them. I'm not a big fan of fantasy lit, so I thought that reading about wizards and such was not for me. It was as a mother of two cranky children that I ended up trying the books, and I am SO glad that I did not end up missing out on this brilliant and wonderful series I have read the books AND listened to them on CD. Here's the story of how I became a fan of HP: I am an avid reader and years ago, when the Harry Potter books first came to the U.S. and caused such a sensation, I resisted reading them. I'm not a big fan of fantasy lit, so I thought that reading about wizards and such was not for me. It was as a mother of two cranky children that I ended up trying the books, and I am SO glad that I did not end up missing out on this brilliant and wonderful series. My kids and I were in an unpleasant rut. After a long day of teaching, I picked them up from their school. Our ride home was quite unpleasant. All three of us were tired and cranky. The kids bickered constantly. Then one day, I had a brainstorm. I stopped by the library and picked up the first Harry Potter book on tape. A magical change took place in our car! The long, dreary rides flew by. We began to look forward to our daily commutes. Listening together became quality time \u2014 the best part of our day! Jim Dale's narration of the series is truly magical. He changes his voice in hundreds of different ways to convey the various characters and their personalities. He brought an excitement to the stories that was just plain addictive. My children and I became avid fans of Harry Potter, and we went to the midnight book launchings of Books 6 and 7. Harry helped us get through a long and nasty divorce. I became known as the Harry Potter expert (and the books' biggest fan) at my school. I even went to a HP symposium in Las Vegas one summer, taking courses and spending time with other HP fanatics. HP changed my life in such a positive way. I will forever be grateful to J.K. Rowling for sharing her incredible story with all of us. ...more There are countless reviews about the HP book out there, so I'll try to be brief. After all, who hasn't read at least some of the books or seen the movies? I began to read the books after watching the first movie because I loved it..and well, why deny it? Because everybody else was doing so. But I was ten years old and I had nothing to compare it with. After reading Harry Potter, I realized how different they are. The movies are OK, entertaining but nothing more. They lack the magic of the books. There are countless reviews about the HP book out there, so I'll try to be brief. After all, who hasn't read at least some of the books or seen the movies? I began to read the books after watching the first movie because I loved it..and well, why deny it? Because everybody else was doing so. But I was ten years old and I had nothing to compare it with. After reading Harry Potter, I realized how different they are. The movies are OK, entertaining but nothing more. They lack the magic of the books. Rowling prose is agile, fluent, easy to read yet beautiful and detailed enough. I've never read any other author who can balance both aspects so well without finishing with a bunch of flat characters and a too foreseeable plot. The history becomes darker and more dramatic with each book. Harry Potter would have not appealed to me so much to if there were seven Philosopher's Stone-like books. The characters matured, changed; the readers also did. It's the Harry Potter generation: kids who grew up with him. Some people will say Rowliing can't write, that it's pure marketing. I'll answer that she must have done something right if she can keep me reading until 3AM (believe, it's not easy). ...more 10 February 2016: $14.99 on Kindle I LOVE ALL OF THESE BOOKS! i was brought into the harry potter world after the second book came out. i enjoyed every book each in it's own way. i loved the first book because it helped me believe in magic again like i did when i was little. i liked the second book because i got to see hermoine grow as a stronger witch. i loved the third one because harry started to really step into his role and there was so much happening. it was an exciting book.i was introduced to dementors, azkaban, escaped c I LOVE ALL OF THESE BOOKS! i was brought into the harry potter world after the second book came out. i enjoyed every book each in it's own way. i loved the first book because it helped me believe in magic again like i did when i was little. i liked the second book because i got to see hermoine grow as a stronger witch. i loved the third one because harry started to really step into his role and there was so much happening. it was an exciting book.i was introduced to dementors, azkaban, escaped convicts and there was more about how harry's parents died. i loved the fourth one because there were dragons, a sphynx, mazes, and voldemort finally came into the books at full power. it was exciting and non stop action. i loved the fifth one because i loved hating umbridge. it was so great to see harry start to step into his role as a leader and fight against voldemort. i loved the sixth because we finally were able to see into the life and rise of voldemort. i also got to delve into the life and mind of albus dumbledore. i especially loved the first six books because no matter how i tried i could not guess how they would end. i think the second one even though it was not my least favorite it was the biggest surprise ending! i have a talent. i can figure out the endings to movies and books but j.k. rowling always kept me guessing. at least until the seventh book. i of course had no idea about the deathly hallows but i did guess all the major parts. now i loved the seventh because it brought all the other six books together. i was able to see harry turn from boy to man. i loved that the author took us into the future and shower harry's family. these are all books i could read over and over. the instant i read one sentence i am instantly transported in the magical world of harry potter. ...more Been reading this lately, just to feel the nostalgia that literally ran thru my veins when i was a teenager. I used to LOVE harry potter, obsessively. I never actually lost hope in getting a secret invitation to Hogwarts, or discovering a secret magical world. Its everyones wish i think. When i read this and i think of all the great stuff about this fantasy, i remember how much i HATE being a grown up. I hate it. I know deep down that I am still a little girl inside. I cant understand why some p Been reading this lately, just to feel the nostalgia that literally ran thru my veins when i was a teenager. I used to LOVE harry potter, obsessively. I never actually lost hope in getting a secret invitation to Hogwarts, or discovering a secret magical world. Its everyones wish i think. When i read this and i think of all the great stuff about this fantasy, i remember how much i HATE being a grown up. I hate it. I know deep down that I am still a little girl inside. I cant understand why some people are being mean or asking me about weird grown up stuff, like paying the bills, or dating, or being responsible for a parking spot. This sucks. I have always been in trouble for not choosing to grow up. Thats why i designed a new way to escape their blames. I pretend to be grown up outside and in my safe, happy place, ill be myself. Funny how this gets the best of me cuz harry potter reminds me of childhood excitement. I grew up with harry's adventures. When they were choosing characters for the harry potter movies, i was the exact same age as emma Watson (i still am ...more Sigh... I've finally added Harry to my list. Though many of my friends here at GoodReads have given it very high marks, it simply didn't move me. Perhaps, if I had come to the books when I was 8 or 10, I'd be more impressed (though my reading was pretty sophisticated even then -- I was devouring The Silmarillion at 11). And I would (and do) give the last few volumes 3 stars -- Harry was getting older and more interesting -- but I didn't find anything particularly amazing or innovative about the c Sigh... I've finally added Harry to my list. Though many of my friends here at GoodReads have given it very high marks, it simply didn't move me. Perhaps, if I had come to the books when I was 8 or 10, I'd be more impressed (though my reading was pretty sophisticated even then -- I was devouring The Silmarillion at 11). And I would (and do) give the last few volumes 3 stars -- Harry was getting older and more interesting -- but I didn't find anything particularly amazing or innovative about the characters or plot. Perhaps, in the final analysis, that's my \"problem\" with the series: It didn't push the envelop. Perhaps, unfairly, I wanted a more challenging read. I would recommend this to young readers just getting their feet wet, and then guide them into more (IMHO) challenging authors like Norton, Le Guin, Tolkien, White, etc. (i.e., the deep end of the pool). ...more this \u201creview\u201d is simply notes to myself, not much of interest to anyone but me, and not containing much in the way of spoilers given how cryptic the notes are, but just in case: (view spoiler) [ started reading late 7/30/11, 7/31/11 UK time and finished reading 10/4/11, taking much longer than I\u2019d expected, but thoroughly enjoying the experience, and more convinced than ever that this is a brilliantly told story This is the first time I\u2019ve read the paperbacks in the box set. I also own and have read this \u201creview\u201d is simply notes to myself, not much of interest to anyone but me, and not containing much in the way of spoilers given how cryptic the notes are, but just in case: (view spoiler) [ started reading late 7/30/11, 7/31/11 UK time and finished reading 10/4/11, taking much longer than I\u2019d expected, but thoroughly enjoying the experience, and more convinced than ever that this is a brilliantly told story This is the first time I\u2019ve read the paperbacks in the box set. I also own and have read the hardcover American editions. I\u2019d already read books 1-6 twice (book 1-3 maybe more often?) but book 7 only once. I reread books 1-6 shortly before book 7 was published 4 years ago, but this reread of all 7 books is my first reading in over 4 years. It\u2019s the first time I\u2019ve really gotten to read all the books in a leisurely manner; the other times I was reading as fast as I could before I could overhear any spoilers. do a (view spoiler) [ \u2026 (hide spoiler) ] even though no major ones, but for those who haven\u2019t read the 7 books and don\u2019t want to know names, my reactions, any details whatsoever\u2026These are mostly notes to myself as my (not so great) reviews are at the individual books\u2019 pages. book 1: Harry Potter and the Sorcerer\u2019s Stone I\u2019d forgotten how funny book 1 is. I love Hedwig. I\u2019m so glad I\u2019m reading books 1-7 all at once for the first time, and getting the books back in my head and the movies out; I love the movies but I\u2019m even more fond of the books, and I know I\u2019ve forgotten a lot. I haven\u2019t read any of the books for 4 years, since book 7 was first published. So glad to be back reading the books and getting to all the material that was left out of the movies, things I\u2019d forgotten. Fun to read knowing what I know after having read all the book, but even though much that portends, this first 1/7 of the story is still in so many ways so innocent and simple and light. Great friendship and loyalty story, great quest story, with fabulous suspense and humor and with terrific pacing, and with some nice surprises including the one at the end. Great to see characters and know of their development and how important a role they will play. Yes, she did \u201cknow\u201d all seven books at once and it\u2019s obvious by how well crafted this book is/these books are. quotes!!!: \u201cAh, music\u2026A magic beyond all what we do here!\u201d \u201c\u2026 it does not do to dwell on dreams and forget to live\u201d \u201cto have been loved so deeply, even though the person is gone \u2013 still will give some protection forever\u201d \u201cIt takes a great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to stand up to our friends.\u201d book 2: Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets I always thought this was my least favorite of the seven books, despite having probably my favorite quote from the whole series in it, but I\u2019d forgotten how funny the beginning is and we\u2019re introduced to Dobby and Lockhart and Fawkes and the Weasley\u2019s the Burrow and Floo powder and Howlers and squibs and mudbloods, and then there\u2019s the flying car, and Colin Creevey and Justin Finch-Fletchley, although I still think the (what felt like more than one) d\u00e9nouement is not my favorite and some of the stuff related to it and other stuff that comes earlier, but readers find out much more about Voldemort and this part of the story moves the seven book story along beautifully. I love how it shows how kids (12 years old & thereabouts) often don\u2019t confide in adults, even those they admire and trust, and even when they should; very smart. But, at the crucial moment: Tell someone first!!! It always drives me crazy when that isn\u2019t done. I definitely enjoyed my third time reading this one better than I did my first two times. I no longer have a least favorite book in the series. And, it\u2019s also so funny; the humor in these books is brilliant, and needed given their dark parts. This is one of my very favorite quotes in the series: \"It is our choices, Harry, that show us what we truly are, far more than our abilities.\" book 3: Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban These 7 books are one story but (along with the brilliane of tying it all together in 7 and my fondness for 1) this is my favorite book/part of the story: the time travel!!! and who saves who by the lake is one of the best parts of the Harry Potter story and the dementers = depression \u2013 she got down at least part of it perfectly\u2026, and I made sure I had chocolate candy on hand for when I read this book!!! ;-) Harry\u2019s patronus and patronuses in general the marauder\u2019s map, Honeydukes, butterbeer, Buckbeak the Hippogriff, boggarts, Sirius Black and Professor Lupin are two of my favorite characters with the subject of divination being an opportunity for talking about critical thinking (in a fantasy book!) and so much else wonderful about this book 3. It\u2019s when things get serious but before they get overly serious and dark. Quotes: especially \u201cThe consequences of our actions are always so complicated, so diverse, that predicting the future is a very difficult business indeed.\u201d and \u201cYou think the dead we loved ever truly leave us? You think that we don\u2019t recall them more clearly than ever in times of great trouble?\u201d book 4: Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire So many good inclusions are introduced in book 4: Aurors, the pensieve, Rita Skeeter, Mad-Eye Moody, the Wesasley\u2019s Grandfather clock, portkeys, the dark mark, S.P.E.W., Cedric Diggory, the unforgivable curses: Avada Kedavra & Imperious & Cruciatus, more Dobby, learn more about Hagrid I love the obvious message that courage definitely doesn\u2019t mean a lack of intense fear. The death in this book got to me so much more than it did the first two times I read it. I don\u2019t know why for me that third time was charm, but I definitely felt the devastation this time. quotes: \u201cit matters not what someone is born, but what they grow to be\u201d \u201c\u2026the truth is generally preferable to lies\u2026\u201d book 5: Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix aurors, the prophecy, Delores Umbridge, Luna Lovegood, Nymphdora Tonks, Kreacher, Dumbledore\u2019s Army & the Order of the Phoenix, St. Mungo\u2019s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, the House of Black, the Room of Requirement, the Ministry of Magic, thestrals, Kingsley Shacklebolt, and Sirius The death in this book got to me more than any other, which is saying a lot, given how many of the deaths I found highly disturbing. quote: \u201c\u2026thoughts can leave deeper scarring than almost anything else\u2026\u201d book 6: Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince the unbreakable vow, horcruxes, learning to apparate, more about Draco, and Snape/and so much more to learn about Snape, and Fleur & Bill, and Tonks & Lupin, Fawkes!, Dumbledore!!! the death in the 6th book got to me the most this time, the one in 5 before this rereading, but 6, 5, 4 all more than ever I\u2019m glad this book did not have a too abrupt ending. I loved 6 more than I did the first 2 times, and that goes for 4 & 5 too. I now appreciate the movies less (though I still like them) and have the utmost high regard for all the books/the story. I\u2019d forgotten so much of the books because of the movies. quote: \u201cAge is foolish and forgetful when it underestimates youth.\u201d book 7: Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows have to be a bit of a Gryffindor to read this book\u2026brave\u2026 Hedwig!, Mad-Eye!, Kreacher and the locket!, Dobby!!!, Snape!!!, Dumbledore!!!, Fred, Tonks & Lupin, Neville!/Neville & Nagini! (hide spoiler) ] ...more Welp. I did it. I finally diddly-dun-did it. I caved. I got a hold of the complete audiobook set read by the lovely Stephen Fry and dove right in. (Sidebar, I haven't had the slightest desire to actually read these past several months; audiobooks have become my solace lately.) As someone who only saw the movies--never having grown up with the books since I wasn't a reader as a kid--I was surprised how very few differences there were between the books and movies. The books felt like much more in-d Welp. I did it. I finally diddly-dun-did it. I caved. I got a hold of the complete audiobook set read by the lovely Stephen Fry and dove right in. (Sidebar, I haven't had the slightest desire to actually read these past several months; audiobooks have become my solace lately.) As someone who only saw the movies--never having grown up with the books since I wasn't a reader as a kid--I was surprised how very few differences there were between the books and movies. The books felt like much more in-depth and immersive experiences while the movies were the equally gorgeous yet more condensed visual counterparts. There's really nothing else I can say about a series that has achieved such legendary status. I was always curious to find out if it really was as incredible as it had always been gushed about to me and, well, yeah. It is. This series is the real deal. And Rowling is most definitely the real deal. Bow down, bitches. ...more The reading of this series is done by Jim Dale. He is a fantastic reader in this series. You are transported to the world of Hogwarts through his character voices and beautiful accents. I love these stories anyway, and this is one of the best audiobooks I've listened to. Ok.. I am putting a series review as opposed to an individual story review. I found this to be a fascinating series. Its clear once you close the cover on the final tome, that the author had the entire story mapped out before she began to write the first novel. The characters are complete, complex and compelling.. The wizarding world setting takes a back seat to the larger themes of honesty, integrity, loyalty, and to paraphrase a wonderful character, doing what is right, not what is easy. I think Ok.. I am putting a series review as opposed to an individual story review. I found this to be a fascinating series. Its clear once you close the cover on the final tome, that the author had the entire story mapped out before she began to write the first novel. The characters are complete, complex and compelling.. The wizarding world setting takes a back seat to the larger themes of honesty, integrity, loyalty, and to paraphrase a wonderful character, doing what is right, not what is easy. I think for readers of all ages this is a glorious find, its truly a joy to dive into these books. I also think that any book series that can expose people to the love of reading should be applauded by all. The End ...more Hmm. I really must be missing something with these books, unless all the fans wouldn't know a good book if it bit them (which is possible). Yeah, they're OK. They're young children's books: they read like young children's books. It's obvious (to me, but not apparently to other people) that Rowling has basically gone through all the mythology and popular fantasy literature she can find, grafted it all together, got together three characters and set them up in a 'magic school'. Am I the only perso Hmm. I really must be missing something with these books, unless all the fans wouldn't know a good book if it bit them (which is possible). Yeah, they're OK. They're young children's books: they read like young children's books. It's obvious (to me, but not apparently to other people) that Rowling has basically gone through all the mythology and popular fantasy literature she can find, grafted it all together, got together three characters and set them up in a 'magic school'. Am I the only person who is annoyed by the fact that she denies almost all her influences and pretends that she is some kind of myth-maker, which she isn't. (For example, she says she hasn't read The Earthsea books by Ursula Le Guin, which I doubt). I remember Jason Manfield on 8 out of 10 Cats wondering why it is acceptable for a grown man to read a Harry Potter book on the train and yet you would get strange looks if you got out a colouring book and started colouring it in. I wonder as well: it troubles me that the books read most obsessively these days are children's books and crap thrillers. I think AS Byatt summed it up best: \"a secondary world, made up of patchworked derivative motifs from all sorts of children's literature ... written for people whose imaginative lives are confined to TV cartoons, and the exaggerated (more exciting, not threatening) mirror-worlds of soaps, reality TV and celebrity gossip\". A lot of the time the writing is poor and I'm really surprised that so few people have noticed that. If the road to hell is paved with adverbs, JK is well on her way. ...more This is my ABSOLUTE FAVORITE SERIES! These books are nothing short of fantastic for adults as well as children. J.K. Rowling's style of writing is completely mesmerizing. It's so easy - and so enjoyable to get lost in the world that she's created. I have found that people who don't like or approve of these books are always the same people who haven't actually read any of them through. If you read them, you will find that they are in fact very endearing as well as inspiring. If you've only seen t This is my ABSOLUTE FAVORITE SERIES! These books are nothing short of fantastic for adults as well as children. J.K. Rowling's style of writing is completely mesmerizing. It's so easy - and so enjoyable to get lost in the world that she's created. I have found that people who don't like or approve of these books are always the same people who haven't actually read any of them through. If you read them, you will find that they are in fact very endearing as well as inspiring. If you've only seen the movies (and like them), you're in for a treat because the books are ten times better. I like the movies alot but I feel that they are slightly geared for younger audiences whereas the books are for anyone. Rowling's style of writing is so enjoyable that I would read absolutely anything that she wrote. She's just incredible. Seriously, who wouldn't want to go to Hogwart's? ...more Had such a pleasure in rereading this phenomenal series!:)<---C>J.K. Rowling</---C><+++>Harry Potter Boxset</+++>", "Title": "Harry Potter Boxset"},
