{"Comments": "I got off the bus from Bumbershoot around 1 AM, exhausted. Convinced that even the cars speeding past my window couldn\u2019t keep me from this night\u2019s rest, I opened the door to a stench of exceptional vileness. Not a dead stench, or a spoiled food stench.<---F> This was the stench of sewage</---F>. From a spot in the center of the living room I surveyed the apartment and discovered the source: the commode and the area around it were covered in yuck. I dialed up the landlord. The exchange went something like thi I got off the bus from Bumbershoot around 1 AM, exhausted. Convinced that even the cars speeding past my window couldn\u2019t keep me from this night\u2019s rest, I opened the door to a stench of exceptional vileness. Not a dead stench, or a spoiled food stench. This was the stench of sewage. From a spot in the center of the living room I surveyed the apartment and discovered the source: the commode and the area around it were covered in yuck. I dialed up the landlord. The exchange went something like this: \u201cThere\u2019s shit on my floor.\u201d Why mince words? \u201cWhat do you want me to do about it?\u201d \u201cI want you to fix my toilet, so there won\u2019t be shit on my floor.\u201d \u201cHave you tried a plunger?\u201d \u201cWhat do you think?\u201d \u201cAnd that didn\u2019t work?\u201d After 20 minutes of this verbal badminton, I realized the man wasn\u2019t going to get out of bed without a signed act of congress. He told me there was an all night Denny\u2019s down the street should I need a toilet during the night. So it was that at 2 AM,<---M> after multiple rounds of cleaning and yakking</---M>, I found myself seated in the kitchen on a kibble-filled bucket, a can of beer in one hand and <+++>Middlesex</+++> in the other. \u201cThere was a place halfway between consciousness and unconsciousness where Tessie did her best thinking.\u201d I\u2019d had two weeks to kill awaiting the arrival of all my worldly possessions. Plenty of time to determine that the kibble bucket was ergonomically preferable to the floor or my sleeping bag. With my front door situated not five feet from a four-lane road and one block from a strip bar whose patrons seemed to enjoy loitering in front of my building, the noise was like steel wool on my nerves, which were already shot from a marathon cross country drive with three cats, a dog, and a friend who was hitching a ride to her father\u2019s funeral in St. Louis all crammed into my car. With no job, no friends, no furniture and now, apparently, no plumbing, this move was beginning to look like a profound error in judgment. The story of a 5-Alpha-Reductase Pseudohermaphrodite proved a likely escape. \u201cWhen you travel like I did, vague about destination and with an open-ended itinerary, a holy-seeming openness takes over your character.\u201d I\u2019d only brought one book on my trip west. Considerable thought went into the choice\u2014it had to be an author with a proven ability to hold my interest. It had to be long enough to cover the duration of the journey. And it would need to stand up to multiple readings in the event of the delay of the moving truck or my inability to obtain a library card. As a creative writing major, I\u2019d read The Virgin Suicides and marveled at the rotating first person narrative, the subtlety of the prose, and the fine edge between humor and poignance. <+++>Middlesex</+++> seemed a safe bet. The book was my constant companion. After a day of fruitless job interviews, I could go home to Callie Stephanides and her family, safe in the knowledge that there were over 200 pages to go before I\u2019d need to find a new distraction. But the new distraction had already found me. I hadn\u2019t written anything longer than a grocery list in 8 years. With all the time in the world and a good book as your muse, aspirations can get pretty lofty. \u201cEven back then, the Great Books were working on me, silently urging me to pursue the most futile human dream of all, the dream of writing a book worthy of joining their number\u2026\u201d I won\u2019t say that Middlesex turned me into a writer or anything lofty like that. The first time I saw Singin\u2019 in the Rain, I nearly concussed myself trying run up a wall. When I reached the last word, I closed the book. Waited five minutes. Began again: \u201cI was born twice: first, as a baby girl, on a remarkably smogless Detroit day in January of 1960; and then again, as a teenage boy, in an emergency room near Petoskey, Michigan, in August of 1974.\u201d ...more Don't judge a book by its cover. I'd seen this book on the shelves of a number of friends and in the arms of a number of travelers, so I decided to pick it up. The title, \"Middlesex\", suggested English countryside to me. On the cover was what looked like a steamship, and a quote on the back began \"Part Tristram Shanty, part-Ishmael...\" So I came to the foolish conclusion that this was some 19th century English seafaring novel. (Typical.) I couldn't have been more wrong. Middlesex is the story of a Don't judge a book by its cover. I'd seen this book on the shelves of a number of friends and in the arms of a number of travelers, so I decided to pick it up. The title, \"Middlesex\", suggested English countryside to me. On the cover was what looked like a steamship, and a quote on the back began \"Part Tristram Shanty, part-Ishmael...\" So I came to the foolish conclusion that this was some 19th century English seafaring novel. (Typical.) I couldn't have been more wrong. Middlesex is the story of a hermaphrodite who grew up as <---C>Calliope</---C> but discovered in her adolescence that she is actually more Cal than Calliope. More specifically, Middlesex (the title takes on a new meaning now) is the story of three generations of a Greek family and the incestuous genetic and social history that enables the existence of Cal, who narrates the story. The novel is epic. It spans nearly a century and traces the Stephanides family from battle-torn Greece and Turkey in the 1920s, across an Atlantic voyage, from the street corners of Detroit, through World War II, and out to the suburban haven of Grosse Pointe, Michigan. The novel incorporates details upon details from all different spheres of life, dropping name brands from different time periods and regions and incorporating specialized jargon from a wide range of fields--<---A>Jeffrey Eugenides</---A> must have done an immense, immense amount of research during the writing process. And the scope is as broad as the focus is often narrow. Over the course of 20th century, the Stephanides family responds to and participates in political, social, and cultural movements, and through them, we feel not only the sweep of a small Greek enclave, but also the sweep of a nation's growth as it engages Prohibition, World War II, the idealism of the 50s, the revolutions of the 60s and 70s, and more. The story is as much about the conflicts within a country as it is about a family trying to face its secrets, past and present. Through it all, Cal, as a narrator, is clever and endearing. A story about a hermaphrodite sounds freakish at first, and there are moments in the novel when Cal faces the visceral or fearful reactions that might instinctively rise in anyone. But, from page one, Eugenides clears the air, setting us on a fresh foundation, and we discover a character who faces familiar childhood and adolescent trials and tribulations--we discover the humanity of a character one might otherwise find defined as a monster. Do I recommend it? Yes. It's a good tale for the modern age. Would I teach it? Not likely. At 527 pages, it's just too long. Lasting impression? Epic. I'll remember it for the incredible depth and breadth of knowledge it demonstrates. This novel impresses upon me the amount of research that an author must do to prepare for a serious work. ...more Alright, it\u2019s high time I review this hermaphroditic little masterpiece. Being a pseudo-biochemist (pseudo in the sense that I only pretend to be a biochemist, whereas in reality I write scientific development reports and other documents that no one will ever read but which I\u2019ve convinced myself are just as fulfilling as doing real science), I find the premise of this novel to be incredibly interesting. 5\u03b1-Reductase deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder; autosomal meaning that the gene cod Alright, it\u2019s high time I review this hermaphroditic little masterpiece. Being a pseudo-biochemist (pseudo in the sense that I only pretend to be a biochemist, whereas in reality I write scientific development reports and other documents that no one will ever read but which I\u2019ve convinced myself are just as fulfilling as doing real science), I find the premise of this novel to be incredibly interesting. 5\u03b1-Reductase deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder; autosomal meaning that the gene coding for 5\u03b1-Reductase is not located on a sex chromosome (X or Y), and recessive meaning that one would need two copies of a mutated form of the gene in order to express the disease trait. Since we as a biological species inherit one copy of every gene from each of our parents, it would not be enough to have only one mutated form of this gene because a single \u201cgood\u201d copy is all that\u2019s required for proper function. Because of this, the proper-functioning gene is considered to be completely dominant over the mutated form in terms of phenotypic expression. Here is a Punnett square showing basic concepts of Mendelian genetics: Each form of the gene is called an allele: \u201cB\u201d represents the dominant allele, or the healthy gene form; \u201cb\u201d represents the recessive allele. If both parents are phenotypically \u201cnormal,\u201d the only way they would be able to have any offspring with this disease is if they were both carriers, meaning they each have one dominant and one recessive allele. In this way, they are said to be heterozygous for this trait, the genotype of which is represented as \u201cBb.\u201d For any child they conceive, there would exist a 25% chance of that child inheriting two recessive alleles. This is referred to as being homozygous recessive, the genotype of which is represented as \u201cbb.\u201d Only homozygous recessive children will express the disease. Since the protagonist of this novel has unluckily inherited both recessive alleles, one from each of his parents, he ends up with the disorder. So what is this disorder, exactly? The 5\u03b1-Reductase gene codes for an enzyme which converts testosterone into a potent sex steroid called dihydrotestosterone , or DHT, which plays a fundamental role in the formation of the male sex organs. Since disease subjects do not have the ability to convert testosterone into DHT, they end up with too much testosterone and not enough DHT, which in some cases leads to the formation of ambiguous genitalia. These ambiguous genitalia form one of the many, but probably the most interesting, subjects of the novel. The author begins by tracing the history of these recessive alleles back through the family lineage before elegantly leading us to the budding of the protagonist\u2019s crocus: his ambiguous little penis stub (yes, you should click there; and yes, you should see that movie). Perhaps not surprisingly, the historical tracing reveals some ancestral inbreeding, as well. And since the protagonist is still genotypically male (even though he doesn\u2019t know it and neither do his parents or anybody else), the real fun begins when he enters puberty. When I met with my book club to talk about this fantastic novel, a few pronoun choices were used for describing the protagonist: he, she, he-she-it, etc. But all joking aside, the protagonist is male. He is male by genotypic definition (he has two healthy sex chromosomes, one of which is a Y), and he sexually identifies himself as male which is consistent with other real-life sufferers of 5\u03b1-Reductase deficiency. ...more This would have been better as an NPR story or an episode of \"This American Life\" than a novel. Or maybe if someone other than Eugenides had written it. An interesting idea, and a few engrossing sex scenes (I like the \"crocus\" and the peep-tank, and the whole long flirtation with The Object drew me in completely), and a nice two pages toward the end when Julie accepts Cal for what he is. But the prose was awful: frequent maneuvers like \"And me? That's simple. I was . . . \" are really unacceptabl This would have been better as an NPR story or an episode of \"This American Life\" than a novel. Or maybe if someone other than Eugenides had written it. An interesting idea, and a few engrossing sex scenes (I like the \"crocus\" and the peep-tank, and the whole long flirtation with The Object drew me in completely), and a nice two pages toward the end when Julie accepts Cal for what he is. But the prose was awful: frequent maneuvers like \"And me? That's simple. I was . . . \" are really unacceptable. And \"Sing, Muse, of Greek ladies and their battle against unsightly hair!\" is about as funny as poop. Except for the incest, the long family-history plot was like a mashup of immigrant dramas from cable TV: Greek family barely escapes home country to make it to the United States, where they wander through 20th century history in a dull procession of unmotivated Gumpy forays into Wikipedia that have no effect whatsoever on their character development. (Now we'll shove these characters through Prohibition! mass production! the Detroit race riots! The partition of Cyprus! San Francisco hippies! the tragedy of Michael Dukakis's helmet moment! and . . . the founding of the Nation of Islam!) The incest part of the story was good in the beginning -- the early love scenes between the grandparents are wonderful -- and then impressively tedious (Desdemona feels guilt! and then . . . she feels guilt again!). The metaphors are embarassingly bad: Cal lives on a street named Middlesex, and eventually finds reconciliation of the two sides of himself in Berlin after reunification. Why not have Desdemona live on \"I Feel Guilty For Sleeping With My Brother Boulevard\"? Cal remains completely undefined as a character, except in terms of his understandably tough time figuring out his own identity; \"confused\" isn't much of a character. Everyone else in the book fails to exist at all. Jimmy Zizmo turns out to be the founder of the Nation of Islam? Eugenides says self-importantly that \"you've probably guessed\" that -- no! Not only did I not guess it, it doesn't make any sense, logical or emotional, and it's completely uninteresting. Why not have him turn out to be Richard Nixon? Uncle Mike turns out to be a psychopath who extorts his own family? Why? Who cares? Cal's lack of voice or character is the worst thing: if your book aims to show readers what it's like inside the world of an intersex person, you should show us that world from the inside in a way that makes sense, or at least a way that's interesting. Cal has no voice, no face, no identity. What voice there is is completely inconsistent with his behavior -- the current Cal is reticent, shy, depressed, lonely, and retiring; our narrator is open, boisterous, discursive, ironic, omniscient for no particular reason, and irritatingly jokey. And the book no more has ideas about sexuality than it does about Cal's character. As one reviewer said, the most disappointing thing about the book is it ends up reinforcing stereotyped, dumb ideas about gender (like \"Breasts have the same effect on me as on anyone with my testosterone level\" -- as if there were no gays). Callie's pursuit of The Object doesn't make her question categories, it just convinces her she's a boy. There is no middle sex here; there's no middle ground; it's more gawking than Tiresias-like insight. ...more This isn\u2019t so much a review as an embarrassing story. I gave the book four stars for a reason. The writing is beautiful. I would recommend it. Now onwards to my shame. So Brooke and I were standing in line to meet Eugenides. Please understand it was a really long line after a similarly long day at work. We passed the time chitchatting about this and that at our workplace and life in general. By the time the organizer offered post-its* to our segment of the line, we were getting silly and joked ab This isn\u2019t so much a review as an embarrassing story. I gave the book four stars for a reason. The writing is beautiful. I would recommend it. Now onwards to my shame. So Brooke and I were standing in line to meet Eugenides. Please understand it was a really long line after a similarly long day at work. We passed the time chitchatting about this and that at our workplace and life in general. By the time the organizer offered post-its* to our segment of the line, we were getting silly and joked about all the crazy names and titles you could request. Instead of sticking to your name, you could put down \u201cBoo-Bear\u201d or \u201cSunshine Sally\u201d. Just imagine: you could have an autographed book with some outrageous inscription like \u201cTo the best unicorn, Jeffrey Eugenides\u201d. Throughout the course of the night, I had been trying to persuade Brooke to visit a bookstore I thought she would enjoy. She was reluctant for unknown reasons. Under the influence of a bizarre mixture of exasperation, exhaustion, and silliness, I proposed a bet. I had already written my plain-ole name on the post-it. If she promised to accompany me to an event at the bookstore, I would add \u201cbaby\u201d under my name. She quickly agreed. As we waited thereafter, I began to second guess the stunt. But before I could request a new post-it, the line betrayed me. While it had moved at a glacial pace initially, now it swept me forward. When I handed Eugenides my book, he stared at the post-it for a second and then looked up at us. He asked, \u201cWho is Cassy Baby? Is that you?\u201d I was mortified. Utterly mortified. I tried to quickly explain the promised bookstore visit, but I think in actuality I just pointed at Brooke and mumbled something like, \u201cShe made me.\u201d Looking back, the whole episode could be construed as a power struggle. Could a literary nobody force a Pulitzer Prize winner to write something stupid? If he refused, he might seem like a jerk. His best option was probably to play along and, bless his heart, he did. Perhaps he thought it was amusing. I doubt it. So, here it is: Who was the real winner out of this mess? Brooke. Allow me to list the ways. (1) She was witness to my shame. (2) She did visit the bookstore \u2013 although she ditched for me the promised event and went on her own later. (3) As I suspected she would, she became a fan of said bookstore. (4) And this is the cherry on the top: Eugenides inscribed her book to \u201cBrooke Baby\u201d. ------------- *If you want your book personalized, the host will generally hand out post-its. You write your name on the post-it and place it on the title page where the author will sign. This way the author doesn\u2019t struggle to spell your name correctly. ...more This is a book about transition. Transition from child to adult to parent and grandparent. From native to immigrant. From brother and sister to husband and wife. From rural dweller to urbanite. From modest affluence to poverty and up again. From loving language to losing the power of speech. From geek to hippie. From war through peace to civil unrest. From belief to unbelief. From rescued to rescuer. From moral probity to corruption and crime. Oh, and one character transitions from female to male. The last o This is a book about transition. Transition from child to adult to parent and grandparent. From native to immigrant. From brother and sister to husband and wife. From rural dweller to urbanite. From modest affluence to poverty and up again. From loving language to losing the power of speech. From geek to hippie. From war through peace to civil unrest. From belief to unbelief. From rescued to rescuer. From moral probity to corruption and crime. Oh, and one character transitions from female to male. The last of those is the book's USP, but don't let that fool you: it's no more limited to those with niche interests in intersex conditions than it's limited to those of Greek heritage. It is an unusual story, but with universal themes, told by a wonderfully engaging, lyrical, narrator. Few of us fit neatly into binary categories. We all go through many transitions in our lives; the final one is \"only another kind of emigration\". This book speaks to everyone, not just those like Cal's family who \"have always had a knack for self-transformation\". Plot The family originally raised silkworms, so metamorphosis and long threads are at the heart of their lives as well as the story. No fear of spoilers: the key aspects are summarised in the opening paragraphs, starting with: \"I was born twice: first, as a baby girl... and then again, as a teenage boy.\" The rest of the book brings two strands together: Cal's grandparents, Lefty and Desdemona, fleeing the Turks in 1922 as siblings, and arriving in the US as husband and wife, and how that meant Cal ended up with a recessive intersex condition, and is now telling his story. He sometimes addresses the reader directly (shout outs to deus ex machina, Checkov's gun etc). In many respects, it is a conventional sweeping family drama, of the ups and downs of the American Dream: building (and rebuilding) businesses against the backdrop of the Vietnam war and civil rights movement, but with an extra dose of teen angst about puberty (or lack thereof). However, the final few chapters strike an oddly different tone. Octopussy's Garden is partly to hammer home the parallels with Greek mythology (and echo a passage in the middle where Cal muses on the transformations of puberty, using sea creatures as an analogy), but the final intrigue and chase felt very off-key, compared with the rest of the book. There is also \"an innate female circularity to the story\", perhaps because Greeks believe \"that to be happy you have to find variety in repetition; that to go forward you have to come back to where you began.\" This is compounded by some reversal (like Amis's execrable \"Time's Arrow\"): in old age, Lefty's mind and memories go into reverse, and in an early section, Cal describes his birth like a film on rewind. Destiny: The Known and Unknown Cal is omniscient, not just when he remembers things he wouldn't be able to recall (including being a foetus), but also in terms of how much he knows about other people's inner thoughts and private actions. On a few occasions, it feels a little weird (the erotic significance of the grandmother's corset, for instance), but it's how he makes the more extraordinary aspects of the plot credible: he has already conjured believable characters the reader cares about. Nevertheless, the lack of knowledge often displayed is staggering - yet just about plausible. The most significant examples are that Desdemona and Lefty get away with their relationship, and that no one realises Calliope (as he originally is) is not a girl. There are others, though, such as teenage fumblings and more, at which point Cal \"clearly understood that I wasn't a girl but something in between\", though the boy involved did not. Some of the ignorance is cultivated. When Desdemona and Lefty fake a courtship on the boat, \"Lefty never discouraged any speculation. He seized the opportunity of transatlantic travel to reinvent himself... Aware that whatever happened now would become the truth... Playing out this imaginary flirtation... they began to believe it... it wasn't other travellers they were trying to convince; it was themselves.\" Forgetting also matters: \"Everything about Middlesex [the house] spoke of forgetting and everything about Desdemona made plain the inescapability of forgetting.\" There are echoes of Greek mythology throughout, which gives a certain weight and tone to how Cal tells it. For instance, \"An infinite number of possible selves crowded the threshold\" as Cal's parents prepare to conceive him, and it's no coincidence that his childhood church was the Assumption Greek Orthodox Church, and that they later move to Middlesex Boulevard. It also creates an additional layer of foreshadowing. Cal's father is conceived after his parents see a play about a hybrid monster, and at a significant medical appointment about Cal, Milton (Cal's father) wears traditional Tragedy and Comedy masks as cufflinks: which way will it go? Sex Sexual identity is key. Desdemona is obsessed with predicting the sex of unborn children, and Cal himself was only conceived because his parents really wanted a girl (they already had a son) and believed they had found a way to improve the odds of that. He was born at the women's hospital and \"It was all around me from the beginning, the weight of female suffering, with its biblical justification and vanishing acts.\" Nothing unusual was noticed by the elderly doctor, so \"Five minutes old, and already the themes of my life - chance and sex - announced themselves.\" There is relatively little about Cal's adaptation to living as a man (though there is a sweet sideline in learning how to date women, the perils of what to tell them when etc). Most of the story leads up to that realization: the agonies of not developing when her friends do, then growing oddly tall and awkward, struggling with infatuation with girls etc. However, there are glimpses of the adult issues: \"I'm not androgynous... when Calliope surfaces, she does so like a childhood speech impediment... It's a little like being possessed. Callie rises up inside me, wearing my skin like a loose robe... But then, just as suddenly, she is leaving, shrinking and melting away inside me\". Cal is currently in Berlin and \"This once-divided city reminds me of myself.\" A childhood trip to Cyprus was cancelled by annexation \"Cyprus was being cut in half... like all the other places in the world that were no longer one thing or the other.\" It is incest that causes Cal's condition, but there is no rancour in the telling of the story, perhaps because it's not just Desdemona and Lefty. Other cousins married each other (Cal's parents are cousins, conceived on the same day, who grew up together), and even some couples who are not related by blood have a rather incestuous aspect: a much older husband who treats his wife - in some ways - like a daughter; an engaged couple who split, only for the spurned man to marry the sister of her new boyfriend; one sibling suggesting another experiment with masturbation; a first sexual encounter with a best friend's brother, followed by intimacy with the friend. But none of it's salacious. A quiet irony is that the English test at Ellis Island is about eunuchs. Desdeomona Cal's grandmother is central to the book. In many ways they have very contrasting lives, but there are surprising parallels too. After an initial coldness, there is a special bond between them: Desdemona disapproved of Milton and Tessie marrying, of trying to choose their sex of the baby, and was then upset when her prediction of a boy was wrong. However, she was quickly won over, at which point, Cal \"gave Desdemona back her original sin\". She had been an innocent village girl, surprised by developments of her own body as well as her heart (and that of her brother). Her \"body was a constant embarrassment to her. It was always announcing itself in ways she didn't want to sanction...[her] body was still a stranger to its owner\", which applies just as much to Cal. Similarly, just as Desdemona had to reinvent herself as wife instead of sister, and forge an identity in a new country, Callie becomes Cal, \"Like a stroke victim [as Lefty was], I was having to learn all the most simple skills\" and \"I was like an immigrant\" to the world of men. Diagnosis and Treatment: What Determines Gender? \"From my birth when they went undetected, to my baptism where they upstaged the priest, to my troubled adolescence when they didn't do much of anything and then did everything at once, my genitals have been the most significant thing that ever happened to me.\" Gender is not always clearcut, \"determined by a variety of influences: chromosomal sex; gonadal sex; hormones; internal genital structures; external genitals; and, most important, the sex of rearing.\" The last is the belief of the doctor, who saw it as \"like a native tongue... imprinted in the brain during childhood.\" Cal, raised as a girl, proves otherwise. Cal's father looks to medicine to \"fix\" her problem, and both parents react differently: \"Milton heard the words that were there. He heard 'treatment' and 'effective'. Tessie, on the other hand, heard the words that weren't there. The doctor hadn't said my name... He hadn't said 'daughter' either. He didn't use any pronouns.\" Cal is left \"poised between the print of genetics and the White Out of surgery.\" But \"we're all made up of many parts.\" Controversy: Appropriateness and Sensitivity Some question Eugenides' right to write a book like this. He is Greek-American, but does not have any intersex condition and is not a trans person. Furthermore, Cal (and his doctors) uses the term \"hermaphrodite\", which many find offensive when applied to people. As a straight cis woman, with no medical background, I guess I am not really in a position to defend against such criticisms. Nevertheless, I think those who actually read it would find it hard to take offence at the sensitive and insightful way this aspect is portrayed. As for the H word, I expect it's what doctors in the 1960s would have used and there are still places where 5-Alpha-Reductase Deficiency is described in such terms. Eugenides has said: \"The story of Hermaphroditus, the beautiful son of Hermes and Aphrodite, is one I retell, in modern guise, in two different sections of the book.\" and \"I'm referring not to a person or a group of people but to a literary character.\" (From http://www.oprah.com/oprahsbookclub/M... ) For me, one of the bigger issues is the focus of mid-teen Cal's desires, \"The Obscure Object\". Calling a girl or woman an object can't be good, can it? Yet it doesn't come across as objectifying in the usual sense. It's more a way of preserving anonymity and distance, reflecting her special, idolised, position in Cal's life. More troubling is the the issue of consent. (view spoiler) [If one partner is apparently asleep but enjoying things, and the pattern is repeated over many nights, is that OK? As a plain question, I'd say not, but the way it's described, I'm inclined to sit firmly on the fence. Another tricky aspect is the exploitation (or not) of sex workers; even if it's dressed up as empowerment, I'm not convinced it is. (hide spoiler) ] Chapter Eleven Cal's brother is only ever referred to as Chapter Eleven (a US statute relating to business bankruptcy); we never learn his real name. This is different from some other characters who are referred to by a nickname, but whose real names are stated. Quotes * \"His shortness had a charitable aspect to it.\" * \"A sick person imprisoned in a healthy body.\" * \"She'd spend a decade in bed trying with vitality to die.\" * \"You used to be able to tell a person's nationality by their face. Immigration ended that. next... footwear. Globalization ended that.\" * \"Sparks fly across the city, inseminating every place they land with a germ of fire.\" * \"Motorcars parked like giant beetles... smokestacks rose everywhere, cannons bombarding the atmosphere... stacks in regimental rows or all alone puffing meditatively away.\" * The Ford factory, \"that controlled Vesuvius of chutes, tubes, ladders, catwalks, fire, and smoke known, like a plague or a monarch, only by a color: 'The Rouge'.\" * African-American area of Detroit in the 50s, \"The gloom of front porches and apartments without electricity seeped out into the streets and the thundercloud of poverty... directed attention... toward... forlorn, shadowless objects.\" * Joining the Nation of Islam, \"Women exchange the maids' uniforms of subservience for the white chadors of emancipation.\" * \"A group of boys whose main bond was their unpopularity.\" * \"There is no evidence against genetic determinism more persuasive than the children of the rich.\" * \"In the cedar swamp, verticality wasn't an essential property of trees... everywhere the grey skeletons of trees.\" * Tranquillizers provide \"a kind of viewing platform from which she could observe her anxiety.\" * \"San Francisco, that cold, identity-cleansing mist.\" Apparently German is bad for conversation because the verb is at the end of the sentence, which means you can't interrupt (wouldn't that make it good ?)! ............................................. Review from 2008 Pulitzer prize winning story of a Greek-American hermaphrodite! Evokes sympathy for the most unlikely things (incest) and plausibly documents Callie/Cal's coming to terms with growing up and then discovering her/his true nature. When telling the family history, Cal sometimes uses the first person, and sometimes her/his name at the time, paralleling her/his feelings of empathy or detachment. Although close to her/his family in some ways, s/he more often refers to them by name (Milton, Tessie) than relationship (father, mother). Takes a slightly unexpected turn towards the end. ...more Mr. Eugenides can do everything, or at least I am convinced of such after reading Middlesex . I passed on this book for a long time. I kept picking it up in bookstores and putting it down. I've seen quotes from it everywhere, all of which were beautiful, and kept hearing wonderful things about it from friends. To be perfectly honest, what kept me from picking it up in the subject: a hermaphrodite. I think of myself as someone with an open mind, but the thing is that I just wasn't sure if I'd be ab Mr. Eugenides can do everything, or at least I am convinced of such after reading Middlesex . I passed on this book for a long time. I kept picking it up in bookstores and putting it down. I've seen quotes from it everywhere, all of which were beautiful, and kept hearing wonderful things about it from friends. To be perfectly honest, what kept me from picking it up in the subject: a hermaphrodite. I think of myself as someone with an open mind, but the thing is that I just wasn't sure if I'd be able to relate to much in this story. I made a very foolish assumption, and I'm quite embarassed about it. Middlesex is a slow burn er (my new favorite term). It begins with the story of Cal/Calliope's grandparents, which seems unnecessary in the beginning, but which makes more sense with each passing page. The story then passes on to the parents, then Cal. A couple pages in, Eugenides describes a rather gruesome scene, and this was my signal that this is a no-holds-barred kind of author. He goes there . (This isn't to say that the book is filled with gruesome moments, just that he's not afraid to use them when he must.) To address the smoking gun, so to speak, yes, the main character is a Hermaphrodite. Though the reader knows it throughout the book, the main character doesn't know until they're older. It seems incredulous, but Eugenides makes it work, and makes this believable. He was smart to do things this way, because I was on the edge of my seat waiting for Calliope to discover the truth. And, most likely, he keeps a lot more not-so-open minded readers this way. There's a very frank beauty about this book - he doesn't gloss over anything, but despite the many struggles of the three generations, he doesn't feel it necessary to make his reality very bleak, either. Even when the book is at its darkest, most depressing, you're filled with sadness, but also with hope. The other great thing about Middlesex , aside from its incredible cast of characters is how well it captures society in history - first in Detroit in the '20s (a more bleak picture than '20s of The Great Gatsby ), then the '60s. The '20s are focused on the invention of the automobile - the people putting them together as opposed to the people driving them, and the impact that being part of an assembly line and big business had on people, and of course, prohibition. With the '60s, Eugenides tackles race so marvelously - the chapter about the Detroit riots is probably the best in the book, for all of the anxiety and imagery that he evokes. This book is really just as much about middle class America and family ties as it is about sexuality. Don't make the mistake that I made by continually passing on this book - read it! ...more (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.) The CCLaP 100: In which I read a hundred so-called \"classics\" for the first time, then write reports on whether or not they deserve the label Book #15: Middlesex , by Jeffrey Eugenides (2002) The story in a nutshell: The tale of \"the most famous hermaphrodite in history,\" Middlesex is the second and lates (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.) The CCLaP 100: In which I read a hundred so-called \"classics\" for the first time, then write reports on whether or not they deserve the label Book #15: Middlesex , by Jeffrey Eugenides (2002) The story in a nutshell: The tale of \"the most famous hermaphrodite in history,\" Middlesex is the second and latest novel by Greek-American Midwesterner Jeffrey Eugenides, his first being the cult hit (and eventual Sophia Coppola movie) The Virgin Suicides . And indeed, both of these things about Eugenides should be noted in this case, because the book is not just about a hermaphrodite who is \"discovered\" by a pop psychologist at the height of the \"let it all hang out\" 1970s (hence being the most \"famous\" hermaphrodite in history), but a Greek-American hermaphrodite who grew up just outside of Detroit, Michigan, one who grew up as a normal girl and never suspected anything different about herself when younger, due to an aging pediatrician her family was too loyal to stop going to during Calliope/Cal's childhood. As such, then, the vast majority of the book is not about Cal at all, but rather the two generations of Greeks and then Greek-Americans who led her/him to the place where she/he now is; from Cal's grandparents who just happened to be brother and sister as well, a fact conveniently hidden by the two of them during their rushed emigration to America during the Greece/Turkey border wars of the 1920s, to Cal's parents as well, who happen to be cousins themselves and who grew up as best friends in Detroit in the 1940s and '50s. After tackling the adulthoods of both these generations, then, and all the Forrest Gumpesque historical/narrative coincidences that happen in their lives (Detroit race riots! Turk invasions!), Eugenides finally gets around to telling Cal's unique story, and of the way she eventually morphed into a he during her/his tumultuous puberty in '70s San Francisco. The argument for it being a classic: Well, you can't argue with results, Middlesex 's fans say; this did win the 2002 Pulitzer Freaking Prize, after all, considered by many to be the most prestigious literary award on the planet, not to mention the more important honor of being picked a few years later for the Blessed and Glorious Oprah's Book Club Hallowed Be Her Name Amen. And it's easy to see why once you read the book, its fans say -- because Eugenides has a naturally clear yet engaging writing style, telling funny and sad stories that many people can relate to but always in a highly original way. The signs are clear that this will eventually be considered a classic anyway, fans claim, so we might as well start treating it like one now. The argument against: Now, there's a much different argument to be spelled out by this book's critics; they'll claim that Middlesex is actually two novels mashed together, with it being obvious that Eugenides started by writing a tight, inventive, very delightful 150-page novel about the hermaphrodite main character him/herself, currently serving as the last 150 pages of this 550-page book. Ah, but then someone like Eugenides' agent or publicist must've said something like, \"Jeff, baby, we can't sell this as a potential Pulitzer winner if it's only 150 pages! And hey, don't you know how hot quirky epic novels about the immigrant experience are these days? So why don't you, I don't know, tack another 400 pages onto the beginning of this, 400 pages that have absolutely nothing to do with your original novel but is instead a sitcom-worthy look at the utterly stereotypical lives of the generations that came before the hermaphrodite, a story so hackneyed and obvious that we might as well retitle the book My Big Fat Greek Film-Rights Paycheck ? Yeah, that's the ticket!\" And thus do you end up with this mishmash of a trainwreck, the critics say, something not quite a clever magical-realism tale for the hipsters and not quite a heartwarming family tale for the Oprah mouthbreathers, that only won the Pulitzer in the first place because of the political correctness of the Millennial years. My verdict: So first let me admit that I had no idea this book had been written in 2002, until I sat down to actually read it; there's been so many amazing things said about it in the last few years, after all, I had mistakenly assumed that it was 40 or 50 years old at this point, a mistake I won't be repeating in the future. And indeed, this is why those who love \"classics\" lists love them with such an intensity, and why the most important criterion for all these lists seems to be whether the book has stood the test of time; because just to use today's book as an example, in this case the critics are right, with it hard to tell if this book didn't get the accolades it did simply because the academic community in the late 1990s and early 2000s was searching so desperately at the time for weighty family sagas about the immigrant experience, written by people of color with immigrant backgrounds who just happened to have academic cred (which Eugenides has -- he's a literature professor at Princeton, just like our old friend Joyce Carol Oates). In 50 years, will people look back on books like this one and sadly shake their heads, asking each other, \"What were all those PC freaks at the turn of the century thinking , anyway?\" It's hard to answer a question like that right now, a mere half a decade since the book came out in the first place (although I have a strong suspicion what the answer will eventually be); and this is why books that are less than 30 or 40 years old generally are not considered for such classics lists, because it's simply impossible to gauge ahead of time how well they will stand up over the decades. It's why I'm giving Middlesex today a definitive \"no\" to the question of whether it's a classic, and even warning readers that it's not a very good novel in general either, especially for a Pulitzer winner. A real disappointment today, probably my biggest since starting this essay series back in January. Is it a classic? No ...more \"When I told my life story to Dr. Luce, the place where he invariably got interested was when I came to Clementine Stark. Luce didn't care about criminally smitten grandparents or silkworm boxes or serenading clarinets. To a certain extent, I understand. I even agree.\" I agree too. This quote comes from page 263 and is really where the story picks up and gets into the subject the book promises--Cal's life as a hermaphrodite. Honestly, while the first 263 pages were interesting and had some impor \"When I told my life story to Dr. Luce, the place where he invariably got interested was when I came to Clementine Stark. Luce didn't care about criminally smitten grandparents or silkworm boxes or serenading clarinets. To a certain extent, I understand. I even agree.\" I agree too. This quote comes from page 263 and is really where the story picks up and gets into the subject the book promises--Cal's life as a hermaphrodite. Honestly, while the first 263 pages were interesting and had some important developing points, it could have been distilled a great deal. Eugenides is a great, fluid writer--very witty. But dang, he's wordy. I guess after reading several books by Cormac McCarthy I'm bound to get distracted by verbosity. I'm not saying I don't like long--my favorite book is The Brothers Karamazov --I just don't like all the superfluous words. Still, the book is compelling so far. I'm not as driven to read it as I think I should be, but I don't find myself putting it down after every paragraph to check my email either. UPDATE: I have finished the book. In the end, I felt like it didn't deliver. I see a lot of connections Eugendides is making about identity, but they didn't seem developed. In fact, there were many symbols throughout the book that were very clever but ultimately seemed to be only that--a device used to show cleverness and not to really further the plot. Another problem I had with the book was the fact that Eugenides tells too much about his characters and yet I still feel like it is underdeveloped. For example, he has great characters in mind and some great episodes to show how they feel, but then he simply runs through the story and then tells you how the character felt--I wanted to feel how the characters felt. I enjoyed two things about the book. First, the Forrest Gump-like trek through American history. There are really some fascinating episodes in this book. And Eugenides does an excellent job ellaborating on them. Sometimes I felt like he should have written an essay on American history rather than this novel. The second thing I enjoyed was Eugenides sly, clever writing. I know that above I said that some things seemed to be there just to showcase the author's wit, but some of those things were really clever and enjoyable. The writing kind of reminded me of Jim Carrey's acting: at moments it was brilliant, hysterical, and spot on; but at other moments it was just too much, needed to be toned down, better controlled. As I said, this book didn't deliver for me. I liked it because of its promise. The idea is fascinating. However, as talented as Mr. Eugenides is, a little more control would be nice. ...more April 2012 Goddammit, Middlesex is beautiful. It's epic. And it's roughly 500 pages too short. That's right--too short. As a sweeping, three-generation epic novel that covers the lives of Calliope's grandparents, parents, and her own childhood before she became Cal, it's a damn near perfect novel. As the story of Cal, post-transformation, it's...sadly lacking. The last quarter of the book is rushed and unsatisfying. It's beautiful anyway, but a few hundred extra pages wouldn't have hurt... It also April 2012 Goddammit, Middlesex is beautiful. It's epic. And it's roughly 500 pages too short. That's right--too short. As a sweeping, three-generation epic novel that covers the lives of Calliope's grandparents, parents, and her own childhood before she became Cal, it's a damn near perfect novel. As the story of Cal, post-transformation, it's...sadly lacking. The last quarter of the book is rushed and unsatisfying. It's beautiful anyway, but a few hundred extra pages wouldn't have hurt... It also feels like something John Irving could've written, which just shows that I don't read nearly enough contemporary literature. Help me fix that! ...more This book has all the major players.... Incest, war, teenage girl-on-girl experimental sex, deadheads, undescended testes, and a 2 inch penis. Yep, it took me all of one chapter to realize that Middlesex was referring to something besides a county in England. Best Part : Answering Maurice's question \"What's that about?\" then watching him squirm and cross his legs in obvious pain. Worst Part : Glaring Oprah sticker on the cover telling me I've succumbed to the masses. I like books with family stories but it was very dense! For me the start was really exciting with the grandparents. The when they got to America it dragged for me. Over abundance of information. Picked up towards the end again when it was more about Cal's discovery. I HATED Jeffrey Eugenides other book about the sisters but I really enjoyed this one. Heartbreaking and so brave. What a big pile of everything this is! I like books like Middlesex , one's that stretch over generations, capturing historic moments in time from different perspectives and encapsulating an era. But sometimes they can be too busy, and Middlesex is toooo damn busy. Part of the problem is that the transgender struggles of the main character are plenty of story to work with, so there's no need to tie in an immigration from the motherland tale or set it against the 1960s Detroit riots as a background. What a big pile of everything this is! I like books like Middlesex , one's that stretch over generations, capturing historic moments in time from different perspectives and encapsulating an era. But sometimes they can be too busy, and Middlesex is toooo damn busy. Part of the problem is that the transgender struggles of the main character are plenty of story to work with, so there's no need to tie in an immigration from the motherland tale or set it against the 1960s Detroit riots as a background. All that extra makes this great book too fussy. Certainly a setting is needed. But there's backdrop settings and then there's settings with curtains, drapes, murals, and suddenly it's smothering the bloody scene! Having said that, Middlesex is still a fun, intriguing read. Though perhaps it's not the \"instant classic\" it's been made out to be. Frankly, I'm surprised it won the Pulitzer. But read it and you'll probably enjoy it. Don't read it and you'll get on just fine. ...more It goes without saying that this is one amazing book and my first Pulitzer winner as well. I took two weeks to read this one, but this is my issue, as always. I was incredibly inpatient, with a lifestyle that does not do well in relation to not being instantly gratified. This is such a special story, there is no instant anything. It is to be savoured and appreciated, there cannot be any rushing. I think I\u2019m best in this instance to just write about my experience whilst reading this top notch boo It goes without saying that this is one amazing book and my first Pulitzer winner as well. I took two weeks to read this one, but this is my issue, as always. I was incredibly inpatient, with a lifestyle that does not do well in relation to not being instantly gratified. This is such a special story, there is no instant anything. It is to be savoured and appreciated, there cannot be any rushing. I think I\u2019m best in this instance to just write about my experience whilst reading this top notch book. Everyone knows the story, a story which I consider to be Cal\u2019s and Cal\u2019s only. As always, my reading experience is so much better when I learn something, and this award winning book expanded my vocab (how many new ones did I come across here?!) and my knowledge of American lifestyle around the prohibition era, bits and pieces that unfortunately went over my head about Plato and all that jazz, and Turkish slash Greek historical events. I am glad I read this, but I should be careful not to have high expectations in savouring books. I spent the last ten pages reading while playing cars with my 3 year old, I\u2019d arrived at the point where I was so engrossed in coming full circle with Cal and his coming of age, that I simply had to keep going. I\u2019m so glad Cal resisted in being swept up in ill-informed medical opinions from a man that had no idea of the person that was attached to the genitalia that he so harshly poked and prodded. Then how nice was it to come across Desdemona at the end, I wondered what her ending was to be. I thought it fitting that it was she that communicated her long held secret to her grandson. A very ineloquent review to describe an amazing book, one that I recommend you become immersed in if you can grab the chance. ...more Flawless masterpiece. Ive read hundreds of novels in my day, and this is in the top 3 (On equal shelf with \"A Confederacy of Dunces\" and \"Blonde.\" (My own personal trifecta perfecta: the best novels of ALL TIME!) Unbelievable, mythic; the stuff from the Gods to anyone with an eye & brain to receive from the way-up up up heights. This is LIFE AFFIRMING literature that's meant to be treasured. Would have given this book two more stars except for one resounding disappointment I can't get past. I thought that one of the most important aspects of the book was entirely skipped over by the author without any explanation. *Spoiler Alert* It's probably not a spoiler, but what I have to say may alleviate some of the intrigue - you have been warned. I really, really, really wanted to know why Calliope 'chose' to live life as Cal once she learned that she was a biological male. It was, arguably, Would have given this book two more stars except for one resounding disappointment I can't get past. I thought that one of the most important aspects of the book was entirely skipped over by the author without any explanation. *Spoiler Alert* It's probably not a spoiler, but what I have to say may alleviate some of the intrigue - you have been warned. I really, really, really wanted to know why Calliope 'chose' to live life as Cal once she learned that she was a biological male. It was, arguably, the most important and perhaps only choice she->he had in the entire book, and the author just skips that part. This transitionless transition to living as a male stands in stark comparison to the rest of the book which does a competent job of developing each of the main characters throughout their lives...and for every other seemingly inexplicable action the reader understands the characters enough to know WHY they acted in a certain way. The Calliope->Cal change is so abrupt in the book, and lacks any of the personal insight that the rest of the book teems with...it's almost like the author got tired of writing by the time the transition comes about (quite late in the book), and he just wanted to be done with it. Perhaps the author didn't expand on the \"choice\" to live as Cal because his point is supposed to be that it really wasn't a choice. But I would even have liked to know why Calliope didn't think living as Cal was a choice and was instead a biological or personal inevitability...but no aspect of her choice/lack of choice was addressed. Inappropriate foreshortening aside, I do think that the writing is often quite eloquent. I certainly would have appreciated fewer of the cliche metaphors for change/new beginnings/etc. The author does take the obvious to new heights, however, when he would state for the reader too obtuse to understand that the egg being described actually represents an immigrant beginning life in her new land by ending the paragraph with something like, \"...you see she was that egg.\" ...more This was my second time reading Middlesex, and I have to admit I approached it with some trepidation, wondering if I would enjoy it as much the second time, if I would be as swept up in the story, if, indeed, it would hold up. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook I'm torn on this book. On the one hand, I loved the story, which is, as another reviewer put it, 'the greatest, most incestuous Greek epic since the Iliad '. On the other hand, I had serious problems with some of the writing. I haven't seen my quibbles mentioned anywhere else, so I guess I'm alone on them. Or am I? In a nutshell, Middlesex is the story of Cal, a Greek American who was born a hermaphrodite and raised as a girl before finally realising he was boy as a teenager. In about five hundred I'm torn on this book. On the one hand, I loved the story, which is, as another reviewer put it, 'the greatest, most incestuous Greek epic since the Iliad '. On the other hand, I had serious problems with some of the writing. I haven't seen my quibbles mentioned anywhere else, so I guess I'm alone on them. Or am I? In a nutshell, Middlesex is the story of Cal, a Greek American who was born a hermaphrodite and raised as a girl before finally realising he was boy as a teenager. In about five hundred occasionally brilliant pages, Cal traces back his family history (which is rife with inbreeding) to see how he came to be the sort of almost-male he is. In so doing, he not only paints a loving picture of the memorable and colourful Stephanides clan, whose men have rather special ways of wooing women, but of a changing world, all the way from the Greek part of early-twentieth-century Turkey through mid-twentieth-century Detroit to post-Wall Berlin. What with its focus on different conflicts in different eras, the book is quite epic in scope. Yet it is also quite personal, with the social and racial conflicts played out in the world at large reflecting the much more private conflict that is going on within Cal. Both the epic and the intimate aspects of the novel are funny, poignant and tragic, and for that Jeffrey Eugenides deserves applause. Lots of it. But. But. But. I have to admit to finding Eugenides an awfully inconsistent writer. While he undeniably has a flair for story-telling, he also has a mad tendency to change tenses and perspectives, to the point where it actually quite took me out of the story. I dislike stories which switch back and forth between past tense and present tense within a matter of paragraphs at the best of times; if these stories also come equipped with narrators who constantly switch points of view, I get annoyed. And this is exactly what happens in Middlesex . Not only is Cal an omniscient first-person narrator who shares with the reader details from older relatives' lives which he has no way of knowing, but he also has a maddening tendency to randomly refer to himself in the third person, which results in sudden bursts of 'Calliope this' and 'Calliope that' in what is essentially a first-person narrative. To a certain extent, I can see why Cal would do this, looking back from a distance at a person he used to be but no longer is, but still, I found it annoying, so much so that I occasionally found myself wanting to scream at the narrator to drop all that third-person shit and stick with the first person, for God's sake. I don't like feeling like shouting at narrators, so that's where one star went. The other one I deducted for the weak ending, which felt rather rushed to me after the perfectly lavish set-up. Is it me, or would Middlesex have been a better book with slightly more information on what happened to Cal between the ages of 17 and 41? With an actual, you know, ending and all that? I'll stop complaining here to end on a positive note. Despite my quibbles, I enjoyed most of Middlesex -- especially the first half, which is superb. I quite like Eugenides' brand of modern mythology, so I think I'll give The Virgin Suicides a shot, too. I rather liked the film, so I'm actually quite surprised I haven't read the book yet... ...more Jeffrey and I started on very bad terms. I read his Virgin Suicides and well that was an overhyped disappointment. The Marriage Plot is shaping up to be one of the worst books I read this year. So obviously I was apprehensive about starting this. But I did. And I liked it. What can I say, it\u2019s a good book! Praise the baby Jesus, Jeffrey Eugenides wrote a good book! This is a perfectly fine novel. It held my interest all the way through and I actually wanted to know what happened as the novel prog Jeffrey and I started on very bad terms. I read his Virgin Suicides and well that was an overhyped disappointment. The Marriage Plot is shaping up to be one of the worst books I read this year. So obviously I was apprehensive about starting this. But I did. And I liked it. What can I say, it\u2019s a good book! Praise the baby Jesus, Jeffrey Eugenides wrote a good book! This is a perfectly fine novel. It held my interest all the way through and I actually wanted to know what happened as the novel progressed! Shock horror, I know. So yeah. I liked a Eugenides novel. In other news, Hell has apparently frozen over\u2026 ...more \u03a4\u03bf Middlesex \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc, \u03b1\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03ad\u03c1\u03b3\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03c5\u03c1\u03ae\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03b4\u03c1\u03b5\u03cd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1\u03b3\u03ae, \u03b7 \u03b5\u03be\u03ad\u03bb\u03b9\u03be\u03b7, \u03b7 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac\u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03b7. \u03a3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03bf\u03c3\u03ba\u03ce\u03bb\u03b7\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03bd\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03ac\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03ac\u03b3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd\u03c4\u03b9\u03bc\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac\u03be\u03b9. \u03a3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u039b\u03ad\u03c6\u03c4\u03c5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u0394\u03b5\u03b9\u03c3\u03b4\u03b1\u03b9\u03bc\u03cc\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c6\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03a3\u03bc\u03cd\u03c1\u03bd\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c6\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03be\u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03b5\u03bd\u03bd\u03b7\u03b8\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03be\u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b5\u03c6\u03ad\u03c5\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b5\u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03cc\u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03bf\u03b9 \u03b8\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03ce\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bf\u03b4\u03b5\u03cd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u0391\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae. \u03a3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u039c\u03af\u03bb\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03a4\u03ad\u03c3\u03c3\u03c5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03ac\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03ae\u03be\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bc\u03b1\u03b6\u03af \u03b1\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ce\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1. \u03a3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u039a\u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b9\u03cc\u03c0\u03b7 \u03c0 \u03a4\u03bf Middlesex \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc, \u03b1\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03ad\u03c1\u03b3\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03c5\u03c1\u03ae\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03b4\u03c1\u03b5\u03cd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1\u03b3\u03ae, \u03b7 \u03b5\u03be\u03ad\u03bb\u03b9\u03be\u03b7, \u03b7 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac\u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03b7. \u03a3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03bf\u03c3\u03ba\u03ce\u03bb\u03b7\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03bd\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03ac\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03ac\u03b3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd\u03c4\u03b9\u03bc\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac\u03be\u03b9. \u03a3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u039b\u03ad\u03c6\u03c4\u03c5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u0394\u03b5\u03b9\u03c3\u03b4\u03b1\u03b9\u03bc\u03cc\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c6\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03a3\u03bc\u03cd\u03c1\u03bd\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c6\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03be\u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03b5\u03bd\u03bd\u03b7\u03b8\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03be\u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b5\u03c6\u03ad\u03c5\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b5\u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03cc\u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03bf\u03b9 \u03b8\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03ce\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bf\u03b4\u03b5\u03cd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u0391\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae. \u03a3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u039c\u03af\u03bb\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03a4\u03ad\u03c3\u03c3\u03c5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03ac\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03ae\u03be\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bc\u03b1\u03b6\u03af \u03b1\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ce\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1. \u03a3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u039a\u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b9\u03cc\u03c0\u03b7 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u039a\u03ac\u03bb, \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b5\u03bb\u03b8\u03cc\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b2\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03b1\u03bc\u03b1\u03c1\u03c4\u03af\u03b1, \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03cd\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9, \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03bc\u03bf\u03c1\u03c6\u03ce\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9. \u03a3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u0391\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b5\u03ba\u03b1\u03b5\u03c4\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1 \u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9. \u039f \u0395\u03c5\u03b3\u03b5\u03bd\u03af\u03b4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b1\u03b3\u03b1\u03c0\u03ac \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u0391\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c0\u03ac\u03b8\u03bf\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c6\u03b1\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5. \u0391\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bf\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b5\u03ba\u03b1\u03b5\u03c4\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03c3\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03bf\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03b3\u03ad\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03a3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c6\u03b1\u03bd\u03af\u03b4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5 \u03ac\u03ba\u03c1\u03b7, \u03b2\u03b9\u03ce\u03bd\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ba\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5 \u03b5\u03af\u03b4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03c1\u03ae \u03ae \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03b7 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03ae \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b7\u03c1\u03ad\u03b1\u03c3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b7\u03c1\u03b5\u03ac\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03ba\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03af\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2. \u03a4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03ba\u03bf\u03bc\u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03b9\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03bf\u03cd \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2. \u039a\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03bf\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03b3\u03ad\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03c6\u03c5\u03c3\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03ad\u03b9 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03c9\u03c3\u03b1\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03cd. \u0391\u03bd\u03b1\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ad\u03c1\u03c7\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c0\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b5\u03c0\u03bf\u03c7\u03ce\u03bd. \u03a0\u03af\u03c3\u03c9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf 1922 \u03bf \u039b\u03ad\u03c6\u03c4\u03c5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u0394\u03b5\u03b9\u03c3\u03b4\u03b1\u03b9\u03bc\u03cc\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bd\u03af\u03bf\u03c0\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf \u03b6\u03b5\u03c5\u03b3\u03ac\u03c1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c6\u03c4\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u039d\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03c1\u03cc\u03b9\u03c4 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5\u03be\u03b1\u03b4\u03ad\u03bb\u03c6\u03b7 \u03a3\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03bc\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c7\u03bf \u03bc\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bb\u03ac\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2. \u0397 \u03b5\u03be\u03b1\u03b4\u03ad\u03bb\u03c6\u03b7 \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2. \u039f\u03c0\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03c9\u03bc\u03bf\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bb\u03b5\u03b3\u03b3\u03cd\u03b7 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c0\u03c4\u03cd\u03c3\u03c3\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03ad\u03bb\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac\u03be\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7 \u03b6\u03c9\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u039a\u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b9\u03cc\u03c0\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b7\u03b4\u03b7 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03cd\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03c8\u03b7\u03c2. \u03a6\u03cc\u03b2\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b5\u03b9\u03c3\u03b9\u03b4\u03b1\u03b9\u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03af\u03b1 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03b4\u03bf\u03ba\u03b9\u03bc\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b6\u03b5\u03c5\u03b3\u03ac\u03c1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2, \u03b5\u03bd\u03c4\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03c3\u03b1\u03ba\u03c9\u03bc\u03bf\u03cd\u03c2, \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03cc\u03c7\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b5\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c0\u03c4\u03cd\u03be\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2, \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03c1\u03b3\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03b4\u03c5\u03cc ( \u03b8\u03b1 \u03b4\u03bf\u03cd\u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b2\u03b9\u03bf\u03bc\u03b7\u03c7\u03b1\u03bd\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03a6\u03cc\u03c1\u03bd\u03c4 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b5\u03bb\u03b1\u03cd\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9, \u03c4\u03bf \u03b3\u03ba\u03ad\u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u039c\u03c0\u03bb\u03b1\u03ba \u039c\u03c0\u03cc\u03c4\u03bf\u03bc, \u03c8\u03b5\u03c5\u03b4\u03bf\u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c6\u03ae\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03bb\u03c0 \u03ba\u03bb\u03c0). \u0392\u03bb\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03c4\u03b5 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03cc\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b5\u03be\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03be\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03b2\u03b1\u03af\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b1\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03bc\u03c6\u03b9\u03c3\u03b2\u03ae\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b7 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03c1\u03c1\u03bf\u03ae \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c6\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03bb\u03ae\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2, \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03bd\u03bf\u03bf\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c0\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5\u03bb\u03ce\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03bf\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03b3\u03ad\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1\u03c2 \u03a3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c6\u03b1\u03bd\u03af\u03b4\u03b7. \u039f\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b5\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b5\u03bd\u03b9\u03ad\u03c2 \u03ad\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u0391\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03b1\u03af\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c0\u2019\u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u0395\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac\u03b4\u03b1. \u0392\u03bb\u03ad\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b8\u03b1\u03c1\u03ac \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ac\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b5\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03c1\u03b7\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u039c\u03af\u03bb\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b5\u03ba\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03a4\u03ad\u03c3\u03c3\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03bd\u03cd\u03c7\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b4\u03cc\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03b1( \u03b3\u03bf\u03bd\u03b5\u03af\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u039a\u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b9\u03cc\u03c0\u03b7\u03c2). \u03a0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c7\u03ac\u03c3\u03bc\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b5\u03bd\u03b5\u03ce\u03bd \u03c5\u03c0\u03ac\u03c1\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03bf\u03b9\u03ac\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03b4\u03c5\u03cc \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1\u03b3\u03cc\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b5\u03c1\u03cc \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03bb\u03b7\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03b1. \u039c\u03b5\u03c7\u03c1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b5\u03bd\u03bd\u03b7\u03b8\u03b5\u03af \u03b7 \u039a\u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b9\u03cc\u03c0\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9\u03c1\u03b9\u03ac\u03be\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b5\u03bb\u03b8\u03cc\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03ad\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03bd, \u03c4\u03bf \u03c5\u03b2\u03c1\u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03b5\u03c1\u03bc\u03b1\u03c6\u03c1\u03cc\u03b4\u03b9\u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03ce\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03c1\u03c0\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c8\u03c5\u03c7\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2. \u039a\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bd\u03b5\u03af\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b5 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03ac\u03b2\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ae \u03b8\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c3\u03b9\u03c9\u03c0\u03ac \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c4\u03ac \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5. \u0391\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03b2\u03ce\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1\u03c4\u03af \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03c1\u03ac\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b5\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bd\u03bf\u03b1\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03ad\u03c1\u03b3\u03bf. \u0398\u03b1 \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5\u03bb\u03ad\u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b7 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03c0\u03c4\u03c9\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2, \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03ba\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03cc \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b8\u03ad\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03bb\u03b7\u03c1\u03ce\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5\u03ba\u03b8\u03ae\u03bb\u03c5\u03bd\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b8\u03ce\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03b3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03af\u03ba\u03b1 \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03b1\u03bb\u03ce\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9. \u039a\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf \u039a\u03b1\u03bb \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03b9\u03c3\u03b8\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ac\u03bd\u03b4\u03c1\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03b1\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03ac\u03c0\u03bf\u03c8\u03b7 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03b7\u03b3\u03b7\u03b8\u03b5\u03af \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03a3\u03b1\u03bd \u03a6\u03c1\u03b1\u03bd\u03c3\u03af\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf( \u03b8\u03b1 \u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03bd\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c9\u03c2 \u03b1\u03be\u03b9\u03bf\u03b8\u03ad\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03c0\u03b1\u03c1, \u03b8\u03b1 \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03bc\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1\u03c2, \u03b8\u03b1 \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c6\u03af\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03b4\u03b7\u03c4\u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03b7\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c4\u03ac\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b5\u03c1\u03bc\u03b1\u03c6\u03c1\u03cc\u03b4\u03b9\u03c4\u03b7 \u03ba\u03bb\u03c0). \u039a\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03ae\u03c1\u03b7\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2 \u03cc\u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c6\u03b7\u03b2\u03b5\u03af\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03cc\u03bb\u03b1 \u03ad\u03b2\u03b3\u03b1\u03b9\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd \u03c3\u03b9\u03b3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b9\u03b3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c6\u03ce\u03c2 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03b5\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03b5\u03cd\u03c4\u03b7\u03ba\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c0\u03ac\u03b8\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03bc\u03b1\u03b8\u03ae\u03c4\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03af\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03ba\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03b9\u03c3\u03bf\u03ba\u03bf\u03b9\u03bc\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf \u03c3\u03ce\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bc\u03b9\u03c9\u03b8\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03c1\u03b4\u03b9\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9( \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b7 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03ba\u03c1\u03af\u03b8\u03b7\u03ba\u03b5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03c4\u03c1\u03c5\u03c6\u03b5\u03c1\u03ae \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03bc\u03bd\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7). \u039c\u03b5\u03c7\u03c1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03b4\u03b7\u03c4\u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03b7\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03b5\u03cd\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf \u03b1\u03c0\u2019\u03bf\u03c3\u03bf \u03bd\u03cc\u03bc\u03b9\u03b6\u03b5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03b4\u03b5\u03c7\u03c4\u03b5\u03af \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b4\u03b9\u03c0\u03bb\u03ae \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c6\u03cd\u03c3\u03b7, \u03c4\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03ac \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03ba\u03ac \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c6\u03cc\u03c1\u03c4\u03c9\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b3\u03bf\u03bd\u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1, \u03c4\u03bf \u03b1\u03c1\u03c3\u03b5\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c6\u03cd\u03bb\u03bf, \u03c4\u03bf \u03b8\u03b7\u03bb\u03c5\u03ba\u03cc \u03b3\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c2. \u039d\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c7\u03af\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b6\u03b5\u03af \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03b4\u03b5\u03c7\u03cc\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03bf\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03b1\u03b2\u03b1\u03af\u03bd\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b5\u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5, \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b5\u03bb\u03b8\u03cc\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5, \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03ad\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5. \u039f \u039a\u03b1\u03bb \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03c7\u03c1\u03cc\u03bd\u03c9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u039a\u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b9\u03cc\u03c0\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03ad\u03c0\u03c1\u03b5\u03c0\u03b5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03b4\u03b5\u03c7\u03c4\u03b5\u03af. \u03a5\u0393. \u0391\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1 \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b5\u03bd\u03bd\u03ae\u03b8\u03b7\u03ba\u03b1\u03bd \u03c3\u03bf\u03c4 \u03ba\u03b5\u03c6\u03ac\u03bb\u03b9 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bf\u03c3\u03bf \u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03b2\u03b1\u03b6\u03b1, \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1 \u03c4\u03ce\u03c1\u03b1 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03b2\u03bf\u03bb\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b5\u03af\u03c4\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc. ...more Flying to Detroit for the Fourth of July weekend to visit my brother in Ypsilanti, I was looking for a great novel set in Michigan to read during my travels. Published in 2002, I'm confident that Middlesex by Jeffrey Eugenides--winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction--would be one of my favorite novels whether I read it in the Wolverine State, in a box or with a fox. This three-generational family saga leaps from Greece to Detroit, across the U.S. and then over the sea to Germany to tell the st Flying to Detroit for the Fourth of July weekend to visit my brother in Ypsilanti, I was looking for a great novel set in Michigan to read during my travels. Published in 2002, I'm confident that Middlesex by Jeffrey Eugenides--winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction--would be one of my favorite novels whether I read it in the Wolverine State, in a box or with a fox. This three-generational family saga leaps from Greece to Detroit, across the U.S. and then over the sea to Germany to tell the story of Cal Stephanides, whose 5-alpha-reductase deficiency syndrome allows him to operate in society as a man, though he was raised as a girl through the age of fourteen. Cal is a hermaphrodite. I can't think of a bolder and more illustrative exploration of immigration, transformation and Americanization than this spectacular novel. The ebb and flow of Middlesex was less like a Homeric saga and more of a tidal force. Eugenides hits with a tsunami wave with this second paragraph, which gave me an excellent idea of what I was in store for. My birth certificate lists my name was Calliope Helen Stephanides. My most recent driver's license (from the Federal Republic of Germany) records my first name simply as Cal. I'm a former field hockey goalie, long-standing member of the Save-the-Manatee Foundation, rare attendant at the Greek Orthodoxy liturgy, and, for most of my adult life, an employee of the U.S. State Department. Like Tiresias, I was first one thing and then the other. I've been ridiculed by classmates, guinea-pigged by doctors, palpated by specialists, and researched by the March of Dimes. A redheaded girl from Grosse Pointe fell in love with me, not knowing what I was. (Her brother liked me, too.) An army tank led me into urban battle once; a swimming pool turned me into a myth; I've left my body in order to occupy others--and all this happened before I turned sixteen. Cal does break the reader away from his genuinely unique childhood in Detroit to return to the point in his family history where nature generated a winning lottery ticket for this DNA. In the summer of 1922, his grandmother Desdemona Stephanides is a young woman, a silk worker in the Greek village of Bithynios, a thousand feet above the old Ottoman capital of Bursa. Her parents killed by Turks in a recent war, Desdemona lives as a free Greek with her brother Eleutherios (\"Lefty\"), a gambler by nature who idolizes the mustached thieves and gamblers of the seaside bars in Athens and Constantinople. Desdemona's silkworms produce the silk which Lefty then sells at market in Bursa, though lately, she's noticed her brother coming home later and later. Lefty tells her it's because there are no women in the village, at least, no desirable ones. Desdemona puts great effort into giving the two eligible bachelorettes in her village a makeover and playing matchmaker for her degenerate brother, but Lefty rejects his suitors, making it clear he'd prefer Desdemona. Intimately bonded with Lefty her entire life, she reciprocates that emotion. When the Turks rout the Greeks and begin to retake the disputed territory where Bithynios sits, Desdemona and Lefty flee on foot to the port of Smyrna. Starving with all the other refugees, Lefty is given some money and medical care by Nishan Philobosian, M.D., an Armenian physician who believes he is safe from reprisal due to a letter confirming he treated Kemal Pasha. Desdemona and Lefty hold out hope they can board a ship and emigrate to America, where they have a cousin in Detroit. But while Allied ships watch, the Turks burn the port and begin to massacre everyone in sight. Thinking fast, Lefty not only secures French visas for himself and his \"wife\" Desdemona, but Dr. Philobosian as well. Boarding a New York bound vessel from Athens, Desdemona and Lefty begin to reinvent themselves: Desdemona gives the last name \"Aristos\" and boards separately from her brother. With expert spycraft, they pretend to meet on the ship's deck, fabricate elaborate backstories for themselves and \"court\" each other for the passengers to see. Their wedding commences in the Atlantic Ocean crossing, their honeymoon under a tarp covering one of the lifeboats. In one of many dexterous moments in his narrative, Eugenides makes both incest and illegal immigration seem less like the acts of criminals and more like acts of survival. Cal's grandparents would've preferred to remain in Bithynios, but couldn't survive there. So, they change. Traveling made it easier. Sailing across the ocean among half a thousand perfect strangers conveyed an anonymity in which my grandparents could recreate themselves. The driving spirit of the Giulia was self-transformation. Staring out to sea, tobacco farmers imagined themselves as race car drivers, silk dyers as Wall Street tycoons, millinery girls as fan dancers in the Ziegfeld Follies. Gray ocean stretched in all directions. Europe and Asia Minor were dead behind them. Ahead lay America and new horizons. Desdemona and Lefty's cousin Sourmelina meets them at Grand Trunk Station. Lina was sent away from the village after being caught in one too many compromising positions with women. Her family offered a dowry to a good Greek boy, an American, named Jimmy Zismiopoulos, alias \"Zizmo.\" Zizmo is an importer of \"assorted fuels.\" As soon as Prohibition was announced, he relocated to the biggest city with the closest proximity to Canada. Detroit. Zizmo uses his connections at Ford to get Lefty a job on the assembly line, which Lefty makes great strides in before the company finds out about Zizmo's affiliations and fires his brother-in-law. In a case of bad timing, Desdemona and Lina conceive children on the same night. To make ends meet, Lefty opens a speakeasy in the basement, a place with irregular hours he calls The Zebra Room. Desdemona gives birth to a son named Miltiades (\"Milton\"). Lina has a daughter named Theodora, who picks up the nickname \"Tessie.\" The year is 1923. His gambling streak alive and well, Lefty opens an above-the-ground Zebra Room off West Grand Boulevard. Twenty-one years later, cousins Milton and Tessie share a backyard fence. Desdemona attempts to arrange a marriage between her son and a good Greek girl, but her matchmaking skills fail all over again when Milton shows greater interest in Tessie. He serenades her through his window or over the telephone by playing the clarinet. Tessie is courted by a seminarian at Greek Orthodox school and ultimately agrees to marry him. Milton enlists in the Navy to get even with her. Tessie spends a lot of time at the movies, having second thoughts about being a priest's wife. Whatever the reason, in the bedroom light of the movie theater Tessie Zizmo allows herself to remember things she's been trying to forget: a clarinet nosing its way up her leg like an invading force itself, tracing an arrow to her own island empire, an empire which, she realizes at that moment, she is giving up to the wrong man. While the flickering beam of the movie projector slants through the darkness over her head, Tessie admits to herself that she doesn't want to marry Michael Antoniou. She doesn't want to be a priest's wife or movie to Greece. As she gazes at Milton in the newsreel, her eyes fill with tears and she says out loud, \"There was nowhere I could go that wouldn't be you.\" Facing certain death as a signalman in the Pacific, Milton scores a 98 on a service exam, is whisked away from combat and accepted into the Naval Academy. Returning to Detroit, he marries Tessie and takes over operation of the Zebra Room, remodeling the place and planning an expansion. Milton and Tessie give birth to a son--whom Cal refers to throughout as \"Chapter 11\"--and later try for another child. Wary of the excessive testosterone in her home, Tessie wants a girl, and defies the Old World predictions of Desdemona to deliver a daughter the couple named Calliope. Neither the pediatrician or the family physician--an aging Dr. Philobosian--notice that Calliope is not like other infant girls, but 5-alpha-reductase deficiency is hard to detect, until Calliope, a product of astronomical luck, reaches puberty and androgens begin to flood her circulatory system. Middlesex is as close to a flawless novel as I think I've read. There might be readers unable to make the logical leaps that I did, or overlook the plot developments I was able to--incest is very wrong, right?--but what takes up greater real estate for me is mystery. Eugenides exposes secret histories, hidden places and unusual human beings that just haven't been examined by a Big Novel before. Not like this. The novel is every bit as great as East of Eden . Much like Steinbeck, Eugenides infuses the Stephanides family narrative with lust, conspiracies, makeovers, ambitions and missteps. These are people cut with deep passions and frailties. These are Americans, regardless of what their name is, where they come from originally, what they look like or what their gender identity is. The writing is drenched wit and passion. A crucial story development comes down to Milton being able to seduce Tessie not with any sexual instruments, but while they're still inexperienced in that department, placing the bell of his clarinet on various parts of her anatomy. And so it began. He played \"Begin the Beguine\" against Tessie's collarbone. He played \"Moonface\" against her smooth cheeks. Pressing the clarinet right up against the red toenails that had so dazzled him, he played \"It Goes To Your Feet.\" With a secrecy they didn't acknowledge, Milton and Tessie drifted off to quiet parts of the house, and there, lifting her skirt a little, or removing a sock, or once, when nobody was home, pulling up her blouse to expose her lower back, Tessie allowed Milton to press his clarinet to her skin and fill her body with music. At first it only tickled her. But after a while the notes spread deeper into her body. She felt the vibrations penetrate her muscles, pulsing in waves, until they rattled her bones and made her inner organs hum. I never realized the extent of the genocides of the Greek and Armenian people by Turkish forces, while the Allied Powers stood by. I never knew that Henry Ford was so devoted to virtue that his sociological department visited workers at their home to make sure they spoke English, owned a mortgage and exhibited proper hygiene. I wasn't aware of the extent of the Detroit uprising by blacks against the National Guard--which history continues to record as a \"riot\"--in 1967. Eugenides finds compelling ways to explore history, not through the lecture, but by immersing his characters, and the reader, in these episodes. Desdemona goes to work in Black Bottom, the black ghetto in Detroit, for the Nation of Islam as a silk dyer and in addition to being remarkably compelling as a story development--we wonder how a Greek immigrant is going to make out hired by militants--Eugenides shows the reader why the community was primed to explode thirty years later. I haven't discussed Cal or the kink in his genetic mapping much at all. The book isn't about a hermaphrodite at all, even though later chapters of Middlesex are as richly detailed on the facts of life in the intersex community as anything else I've mentioned. The characters he meets as he (view spoiler) [runs away from home at the age of fourteen, fleeing corrective surgery all the way to San Francisco (hide spoiler) ] are every bit as fascinating at those in Cal's biological family. Zora, a shapely blonde with Androgen Insensitivity who like Cal, developed as a female, says, \"There have been hermaphrodites around forever, Cal. Forever. Plato said the original human being was a hermaphrodite. Did you know that? The original person was two halves, one male, one female. Then these got separated. That's why everybody's always searching for their other half. Except for us. We've got both halves already.\" The search for the Great American Novel is bound to bring you around to Middlesex eventually. ...more I've read quite a few reviews of this book saying that it was patchy in places, or it bogged down in the historical parts, the character not being believable in others, etc. I have not read the novel, so perhaps this is true. As an audiobook however, it was magnificent. The story was compelling, the history inseparable from the development of Calliope, and the voice of the reader - Kristoffer Tabori - was genius. His character variations made an interesting concept into a fascinating narrative o I've read quite a few reviews of this book saying that it was patchy in places, or it bogged down in the historical parts, the character not being believable in others, etc. I have not read the novel, so perhaps this is true. As an audiobook however, it was magnificent. The story was compelling, the history inseparable from the development of Calliope, and the voice of the reader - Kristoffer Tabori - was genius. His character variations made an interesting concept into a fascinating narrative of a little girl who was born different. Middlesex elbows its way into my top 5 favorite listens with her awkward limbs sticking out to both sides like a boy's, hips swaying like a girl's. ...more A storytelling hermaphrodite chronicles his family's history beginning with his grandparent's emmigration from Turkey to the US in the 1920s. Incest. Mythology. Dysfunctional Greek families. Explosive secrets. Humor in the most unexpected places. Drugs. Sex. Hippies. Riots. Hitchhikers. The Illiad. WHY AREN'T YOU OUT THE DOOR YET? GO. BOOKSTORE. PURCHASE. READ. YOU'RE WELCOME. Engaging epic of the three generations of a Greek family, the Stephanides. The first generation is composed of siblings, Desdemona and Lefty who leave their country during a political unrest, go to Prohibition-era Detroit and there have an incestuous relationship as husband and wife. Born to them in Detroit are son Milton and daughter Zoe . Milton marries his parent's cousin's daughter, Tessie and move to Michigan. Born to them are son Chapter Eleven and a daughter Calliope or Callie. At 13, Call Engaging epic of the three generations of a Greek family, the Stephanides. The first generation is composed of siblings, Desdemona and Lefty who leave their country during a political unrest, go to Prohibition-era Detroit and there have an incestuous relationship as husband and wife. Born to them in Detroit are son Milton and daughter Zoe . Milton marries his parent's cousin's daughter, Tessie and move to Michigan. Born to them are son Chapter Eleven and a daughter Calliope or Callie. At 13, Callie is diagnosed to be a hermaphrodite and she leaves Michigan to San Francisco to build a new life as a young man Cal. I am not telling you the rest of the story as that would be too much of a spoiler. This is my 2nd book of Eugenides and he is still to disappoint. It still has Eugenides's strong engaging and flawless narration. His is a feast to the senses. When he tells a story, he makes it a point that you could visualize, hear, feel, taste and even smell what is going on. My favorite is that part when Desdemona is looking for a job and Eugenides is describing what she is seeing in Detroit during the 30's. It is like being there walking with Desdemona and seeing the surroundings in sepia. That part when Milton is serenading Tessie with his clarinet? I swear I can hear the music in the air and touch Lefty's perspiration on the bronze edges of his clarinet and feel the trembling of Tessie's skin. There are many reviews of this book here in Goodreads and I agree with most of them. Still, my take on Eugenides is a that his prose is one of the most engaging among those novelists who are still alive. What a gifted novelist. What a wonderful reading experience. This book felt like two stories fused into one: the Greek immigrants in the US and how is it to be a hermaphrodite. The only experience I had about hermaphrodite was when I heard a restaurant-owner Aling Sally in Casimiro Village, Las Pinas when I was working there over a decade ago that her lesbian daughter had a long clitoris. I thought that it was her justification why her eldest daughter was a lesbian. It just did not interest me in any way. This book only reminded me Aling Sally's too personal statement while we were eating lunch in her place. I remembered I was eating big noodles and she was talking about a long pencil-like clitoris which was the same way Eugenides described Cal and other other hermaprodite's organ in this book. This is the reason why I preferred the story on the Greek immigrants over the hermaphrodite's. I also felt that Milton's story could have been made stronger as a bridge between the first generation's Desde's and the third generation's Cal's. Save from the last 2 chapters of the book, I thought that the story went down from being totally amazing (5 stars) to so-so (2 stars) and it was saved by the last two: a fast-paced chapter and a well-executed denouement in the very last chapter. It was almost anti-climactic if those two chapters were not as well-written or if you take those out and end the story in San Francisco. Anyway, I really enjoyed reading this book and I am now looking forward to read more Eugenides's works. What a guy! Thanks to Marian and Reinaj for the readalong! Thank you, Angus, for encouraging us to read this! ...more Middlesex has been stacked in a pile of books I like to refer to as my \"Jumanji\" books. The two main child characters in the film Jumanji begin a creepy, larger-than-life board game that results in the \"Little Man Tate\" boy disappearing, and the the young girl running away in horror, putting an abrupt end to the game. Though stowed away in the attic soon after the occurrence and forgotten, a distant jungle drum beat still emanates from the board game, forever beckoning that someone continue the Middlesex has been stacked in a pile of books I like to refer to as my \"Jumanji\" books. The two main child characters in the film Jumanji begin a creepy, larger-than-life board game that results in the \"Little Man Tate\" boy disappearing, and the the young girl running away in horror, putting an abrupt end to the game. Though stowed away in the attic soon after the occurrence and forgotten, a distant jungle drum beat still emanates from the board game, forever beckoning that someone continue the game, and finish what was started. That pretty much sums up my avoidance dance with this amazingly beautiful book. I first began this audio book in 2007, and got so carried away in the language and pace of the narrative, that I knew I wanted to dedicate more time and attention to it, for fear of missing any details. I returned the book to the library and bought a physical copy from my local used book store. Since then, Middlesex has sat in that pile of \"Jumanji\" books, forever beckoning me to finish what I started. Sure it's made it's way into my purse a few times, and followed by a few false starts, but nothing lasting. Even the cajoling from well meaning friends in that \"I can't believe you haven't read that yet!\" voice didn't help. So finally, after 7 years, I broke down and bought the audio book and downloaded it to my phone last week, so that I could take it and the Stephanides family with me everywhere. What a journey we've had! \"I was born twice: first, as a baby girl, on a remarkably smogless Detroit day of January 1960; and then again, as a teenage boy, in an emergency room near Petoskey, Michigan, in August of 1974.\" So begins this sweeping family saga of three generations of Calliope/Cal's family beginning in Asia Minor on through to Detroit, and finally ending in Berlin spanning the 1920s to present. Through this historical narrative, we learn about the Stephanides family and their dark family secret. Told in a sort of whimsical voice, with Woody Allenesque aside interruptions, it's hard not to get swept up in the story and totally lose yourself, or to find yourself laughing out loud, or rolling your eyes incredulously. I can easily believe that this book took Eugenides 9 years to finish. It is such an epic read, and each sentence packs a sensual punch. There are a handful of books that have left me this happy and disoriented...also incredibly sad to turn the last page. It's worth noting that the narrator, Kristoffer Tabori, is one of the best voice actors I have ever had the pleasure of listening to. How good is he, you may ask? Audible.com only has a handful of weird books for which he is credited on. The selection seems to be limited to children's horror stories, funky sci-fi, and self-help books. Oh well, that's dedication. I hope the Tales from Lovecraft Middle School books are worth it, because guess who'll be listening to them here shortly. As for the rest of my \"Jumanji\" books? I'm hoping to tackle a few more this year. The Time Traveler's Wife, Cold Mountain, Into the Woods, and Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close are at the top of that pile. I can already hear you, dear friend. \"You haven't read those yet? Whatsamatterwithya\"? I know! I'm hopeful. ...more Second Read on 08/01/2016 - 22/01/2016 Years ago, I wasn't allowed to read Twilight . I read it eventually (along with the other books in the series), twice. Did I like them? No, not particularly. All I wanted, as odd as it sounds, was to say, \"I can read whatever I want as much as I want and don't have to necessarily become a Bella Swan.\" In other words, my secret defiance to the normal parental fears. Due to apparent lack of mental maturity on my part and the inappropriate content, I once wasn Second Read on 08/01/2016 - 22/01/2016 Years ago, I wasn't allowed to read Twilight . I read it eventually (along with the other books in the series), twice. Did I like them? No, not particularly. All I wanted, as odd as it sounds, was to say, \"I can read whatever I want as much as I want and don't have to necessarily become a Bella Swan.\" In other words, my secret defiance to the normal parental fears. Due to apparent lack of mental maturity on my part and the inappropriate content, I once wasn't allowed to read this book either. After about a year of driving my mom nuts, she gave in. Earlier this month I was Skyping a GR friend. He had never read it being solely a fantasy reader, so I was trying to describe it in depth. Somehow or other, I brought the old copy upstairs and began to read aloud. We disagree on our opinions of most books, but surprisingly, he liked it. So I read the next day and the day after, up until today, when we finished it. Reading aloud and being read to are joys that I rarely experience these days, and despite all of the hard to pronounce Greek surnames, I enjoyed this greatly. I had been contemplating re-reading this for awhile, but was afraid that my feelings towards it would have shifted. Nothing could be further from the truth. I adore this book more than I can ever hope to put into words - verbal or typed out. First Read on 13/08/2014 - 14/09/2014 \u201cI was born twice: first, as a baby girl, on a remarkably smogless Detroit day in January of 1960; and then again, as a teenage boy, in an emergency room near Petoskey, Michigan, in August of 1974.\u201d This is the story of Cal, a Greek intersex man who was born male, but raised female due to the recessive condition known as 5-alpha-reductase deficiency. This means that although male, he has female traits. Before being Cal, he was known as Calliope, a long-haired, lanky teenage girl. Currently residing in Berlin, he writes about his life and the lives of family members before him. Lives that lead to his conception and condition. Lives like Desdemona and Lefty, who were Cal's grandparents. Desdemona and Lefty also happened to be third cousins and siblings. This complicated family is the main focus of Cal's story; the one he writes about and his biological one. The story begins in 1922 with Desdemona and Lefty, who escape Smyrna (which belonged to Greece at the time) and with it The Smyrna Catastrophe , which massacred thousands of Greeks and Armenians. Let's just say that their relationship was a bit rushed. Personally, I think it was simply out of lust and desperation, but I'm not sure if that can be determined. Roofs crashed, people screamed, as Lefty put his lips to his sister's ear. \"You promised me you'd find me a nice Greek girl. Well. You're it.\" On one side a man jumped into the water, trying to drown himself; on the other, a woman was giving birth, as her husband shielded her with his coat. \"Kaymaste! Kaymaste!\" people shouted. We're burning! We're burning!\" Desdemona pointed, at the fire, at everything. \"It's too late, Lefty. It doesn't matter now.\" \"But if we lived? You'd marry me then?\" A nod. That was all. And Lefty was gone, running toward the flames. For me, that moment truly depicts their relationship - it's rushed and there's no introspection involved; it's simple. I got over the incest after the first two hundred or so pages, but what I think really made me dislike their relationship was the superficiality of it all. There was no love in their relationship, just the beginning of bad genetics that would later lead to the suffering of others. And so the story continues in that direction, slowly, but surely weaving through the family tree. Lefty and Desdemona immigrated to America (Detroit, Michigan, to be exact) where they had two children: Milton and Zoe. Cal then goes on to tell us about the childhood of Milton and Tessie (his parents) and their love story. Finally we come to Callie. I particularly liked this paragraph. Very descriptive on his part. You can almost see the moments flying by. And so now, having been born, I'm going to rewind the film, so that my pink blanket flies off, my crib scoots across the floor as my umbilical cord reattaches, and I cry out as I'm sucked back between my mother's legs. She gets really fat again. Then back some more as a spoon stops swinging and a thermometer goes back into its velvet case. Sputnik chases its rocket trail back to the launching pad and polio stalks the land. There's a quick shot of my father as a twenty-year-old clarinetist, playing an Artie Shaw number into the phone, and then he's in church, age eight, being scandalized by the price of candles; and next my grandfather is untaping his first U.S. dollar bill over a cash register in 1931. Then we're out of America completely; we're in the middle of the ocean, the sound track sounding funny in reverse. A steamship appears, and up on a deck a lifeboat is curiously rocking; but then the boat docks, stern first, and we're up on dry land again, where the film unspools, back at the beginning... I think it should be noted that half of the book is about Cal's parents and grandparents, while the other half is about him, or more specifically, his time as Callie and his transition into Cal. I'm quickly approaching the moment of discovery: of myself by myself, which was something I knew all along and yet didn't know; and the discovery by poor half-blind Dr. Philobosian of what he'd failed to notice at my birth and continued to miss during every annual physical thereafter; and the discovery by my parents of what kind of child they'd given birth to (answer: the same child, only different); and finally, the discovery of the mutated gene that had lain buried in our bloodline for two hundred and fifty years, biding its time, waiting for Ataturk to attack, for Hajienestis to turn into glass, for a clarinet to play seductively out a back window, until, comint together with its recessive twin, it started the chain of events that led to me, here, writing in Berlin. Cal is one of the most relatable characters I've ever read about. His style of writing is more than enough to get me out of the reading rut I've been in lately and after doing some research, I understood why. Eugenides, despite not being intersex, lived a life very similar to Cal's! That means that this book is semi-autobiographical! The title is illusive, but the more you read, the clearer it becomes. I initially thought that it was named after Middlesex, England. After a couple of chapters, I thought that it had to do with Cal being intersex. It meant that, but it also meant other things, and the more I read, the less ambiguous it was. I loved this book. It took me a day under a month to complete, but it was worth it. It's an engrossing book, not the kind you can read in the car or in a noisy room. Cal was one of my favourite things about it because he's just so cool! But really, he was an amazing character. Slightly reminiscent of Holden Caulfield, whom I highly covet, but perhaps a little less rash and a little less enraged - even better. I shelved this book as a classic even though it isn't. I think that sometimes you come across a book that's so glorious on its own that you think it should be read decades after your death. This book is the epitome of that and it will always be a classic to me. There are still a few things that weren't clear to me at the beginning, so this certainly won't be the last time I read it. Many of the passages I quoted may seem vague, and when I first began, I missed a lot of it. That's what you get for not taking notes... Not that I mind, because it really is a wonderful book. I honestly wish I could have done this review justice. Although it may seem like everything I've written is a spoiler, most of it is common knowledge or is known to the reader early on in the book. The rest is my take on it. I feel like there is so much more to write about! I wish I could write more about Cal. I wish I could write about Desdemona, Lefty, Milton, Tessie, Father Mike, Chapter Eleven, and the Obscure Object. I wish I could give those characters what they deserve, but I can't because then I'd be spoiling it for you. At the same time, the fact that this review doesn't feel finished to me is more than enough reason for it to be read. There is so much that can be said about it that even if I wanted to fit it all in here, I simply wouldn't be able to. This book deserves all the stars. ...more An epic story documenting the lives and relationships of three generations of a Greek/Turkish family who are forced to flee their homeland to America as a result of a historic and tragic event. Well, that's more the backdrop than the story - the real deal here is the account of the third generation hermaphrodite: the inter-relationships and secrets that preceded his/her birth and life thereafter. It's stunningly well written and I found myself constantly looking up words I'd never come across be An epic story documenting the lives and relationships of three generations of a Greek/Turkish family who are forced to flee their homeland to America as a result of a historic and tragic event. Well, that's more the backdrop than the story - the real deal here is the account of the third generation hermaphrodite: the inter-relationships and secrets that preceded his/her birth and life thereafter. It's stunningly well written and I found myself constantly looking up words I'd never come across before - some of them linked to ancient Greek myths and legends, others were medical terms associated with hermaphroditism but many were just obscure, but interesting, alternatives to the norm. I'm not sure I'll remember many and will probably re-use next to none, but I do feel I've received an education. It's a long and totally absorbing book - well worth tracking down if you like to immerse yourself in an engrossing and complex story. ...more For some unfathomable reason, I decided to start working Pulitzer Prize winning novels into my regular reading. I'd already read several, and it just seems like a good idea. Middlesex wasn't exactly what I expected. Heck, I'm not really sure what I expected. What I knew was that the protagonist was a girl who discovered that she was really a boy at the age of 14. What I didn't expect was a warm, loving, often funny family saga. Jeffrey Eugenides quite clearly has a fondness for his Greek heritag For some unfathomable reason, I decided to start working Pulitzer Prize winning novels into my regular reading. I'd already read several, and it just seems like a good idea. Middlesex wasn't exactly what I expected. Heck, I'm not really sure what I expected. What I knew was that the protagonist was a girl who discovered that she was really a boy at the age of 14. What I didn't expect was a warm, loving, often funny family saga. Jeffrey Eugenides quite clearly has a fondness for his Greek heritage and treats his characters with a great deal of affection. Middlesex reminded me a lot of The World According to Garp and The Hotel New Hampshire by John Irving. While it's not as zany as Irving's work, it has that same affectionate quirkiness. It's hard not to like the characters and feel sympathy for them even when they're doing the wrong thing. I thought Eugenides' use of a first-person omniscient narrator was probably the most daring aspect of the book. For some reason, the incest, the sexuality and the gender confusion weren't in the least exploitative or titillating. I came away feeling like I understood what it must really be like to be a man who was raised as a girl. I felt I understood the Greek immigrant experience. I loved the back-drop of twentieth-century Detroit and how the setting was as much a character as the people. I felt like Lefty, Desdemona, Milton, Tessie, Chapter Eleven and Callie were my family and I loved them like family, quirks and all. This was definitely worth reading. ...more I've been lounging around in bed all day today, slobbering on this book like a crushing schoolgirl. I'm reluctant to use the word, but this book is truly \"epic,\" and not in a frat-boy kind of way. I don't want to give anything away, so I won't discuss any plot points. But really, the plot plays second string to Eugenides' style. Never in my life have I read a book so smooth, like a malty drink, like a wet porpoise, like clear mountain air. (so maybe these metaphors aren't apealing, but it's an a I've been lounging around in bed all day today, slobbering on this book like a crushing schoolgirl. I'm reluctant to use the word, but this book is truly \"epic,\" and not in a frat-boy kind of way. I don't want to give anything away, so I won't discuss any plot points. But really, the plot plays second string to Eugenides' style. Never in my life have I read a book so smooth, like a malty drink, like a wet porpoise, like clear mountain air. (so maybe these metaphors aren't apealing, but it's an attempted imitation that falls laughably short.) Fuck. Terrific, explosive, obsessively-woven style. I mean, there's not one fucking word in this whole book that doesn't fit perfectly in. There's an unobstructed flow. If this were a movie, not one single shot would be stationary, complete movement of the camera, and not just through the physical space, but through time, plot, and unseen ironies. I couldn't put it down. My roommate barely stopped me from changing my facebook status to \"I got Stendhal Syndrome from the Middlesex.\" I can't say a bad thing about this book. Dizzyingly, intimidatingly fabulous writing. You're a dumb shit if you don't read it. ...more I started reading this book with high hopes because of all the great reviews I had read and heard. Not sure why the rave reviews. I definitely found the book interesting but at the same time disturbing and hard to read at times. The whole incest thing didn't do it for me and it wasn't until the end of the book when the book touched on the scientific explanation of the childs condition did I find it interesting to read. The writer spent way too much time on some of the family history which did no I started reading this book with high hopes because of all the great reviews I had read and heard. Not sure why the rave reviews. I definitely found the book interesting but at the same time disturbing and hard to read at times. The whole incest thing didn't do it for me and it wasn't until the end of the book when the book touched on the scientific explanation of the childs condition did I find it interesting to read. The writer spent way too much time on some of the family history which did nothing for the book as a whole, and didnt spend enough time going into how the main character finally adjusted to life once she/he realized what was wrong with her/him. The most annoying part was the brothers name and having to read it over and over. Not sure what the author was thinking when he came up with that one, and it was never explained which made it even more annoying. Another thing is that he left many of the characters underdeveloped and I felt left wondering what happened to them once I finished the book--and not in a good way. I felt unsatisfied when finished, which I don't think is a good way to feel after reading an intense book. If you can't tell, I didn't enjoy this book. ...more", "Title": "Middlesex"},
