{"Comments": "SPOILERS AHEAD!! What. the. f***. Words can't begin to express my disappointment. I bought <+++>Mockingjay</+++> the first day it came out and I was preparing myself for a truly epic novel, one worthy of its predecessors. I loved The Hunger Games; it was fast-paced, thrilling, suspenseful. Catching Fire wasn't as good but it was still enjoyable (<---B>I was majorly impressed by the game arena</---B>). I wasn't let down by Catching Fire though; I figured it was just a transition novel, build-up to what would undoubtedly SPOILERS AHEAD!! What. the. f***. Words can't begin to express my disappointment. I bought <+++>Mockingjay</+++> the first day it came out and I was preparing myself for a truly epic novel, one worthy of its predecessors. I loved The Hunger Games; it was fast-paced, thrilling, suspenseful. Catching Fire wasn't as good but it was still enjoyable (I was majorly impressed by the game arena). I wasn't let down by Catching Fire though; I figured it was just a transition novel, build-up to what would undoubtedly be a mindblowing, epic conclusion in Mockingjay. Maybe I set my expectations too high. I do think Collins is a good writer; she definitely knows how to write and tell a story. But I feel like she lost her way in this book. Or maybe the only thing that made this series so great was the Hunger Games,<---M> and now that it's absent</---M>, there's nothing to drive the story. The love triangle wasn't well played out. First of all, I'm getting a bit tired of reading about love triangles -- especially in novels where there's a much greater plot present. But I'll admit, I was on Team Gale throughout the series, because he was strong and resilient and resourceful and caring. There was this attractive manly quality about him and he was so in sync with Katniss, and hot to boot. But towards the end of this novel, I didn't give a flying fart about Katniss's love life and who she ended up with, because everything seemed like such a hopeless, depressing mess that there was no point. I also hated how she kept flip-flopping and toying with both Gale and Peeta (I've been bothered by this since CF). She should make up her mind about who she wants instead of leading them both on! Her fickleness is pretty inconsiderate to these two guys whom she supposedly cares about. And if she can't decide (I can see why, they both have great qualities), then she should give herself some space/time to decide, and in the meantime, don't go kissing or showing romantic affection to either one! She ended up with Peeta, which would have been fine if it had been executed properly. But even in this aspect of her life, she didn't get to CHOOSE, which is basically the story of her life. She just ended up with Peeta because he was the only one who stuck around. At the end, I found myself wanting her to end up alone, of her OWN choice. Heck, instead of spiraling into bleak depression and continuing life as a puppet, I would have rather seen her die for a noble cause and for doing the right thing. That would have been a more satisfactory ending, and that's saying something because I normally HATE when characters die. I didn't like that we didn't get to experience the action close-up. As the war unraveled, I felt like Katniss was always on the sidelines, only called in when other people commanded her to. We didn't get to see Katniss kicking butt against her enemies, we got to hear from other characters about events that occurred, or watch them on the TV. It is so mindnumbingly dull to be watching a character watching something, instead of experiencing the action with the character. Everything she did was for show, for a propo or campaign or whatever.<---F> It was all so </---F>.. fake. Here they are in the middle of a war, people are dying left and right, and all they care about is filming and getting good shots and angles and putting on a pretty face! It felt so staged and it was boring and infuriating to read. The only real action is towards the end when she and her team are going on the assassin mission to kill Snow, and even THAT was originally only for a propo (that went astray). The last third of the book (the assassin mission) was gorey and bloody, which I didn't mind. It's war after all. But many characters' deaths were so rushed and pointless. Prim's death didn't have the impact that I'm sure Collins was aiming for; I didn't feel sad when she died, as she's barely in the story as it is, so I didn't get to know her well enough and connect with her beforehand. She was absent for at least 100 pages before her death came out of nowhere, for God's sake, so her death felt like any stranger's death. (Although it seems her death kind of defeated the point of sparing her from the Hunger Games.) What DID kill me was Finnick's death. Finnick was one of the characters I loved most in this series, and call me petty, but I can't forgive Collins for killing him off after he'd been through so much and finally got to marry the love of his life. It wasn't even a death of purpose. He got eaten by mutts in a sewer, along with half their assassin team. It annoyed me so much because their deaths felt so UNNECESSARY, like they were just a way for Collins to emphasize that \"this is a DEATHLY SERIOUS, VERY BLOODY BOOK!\" It felt like she was just randomly and meaninglessly killing off supporting characters because she couldn't bear to part with her main ones. Deaths are fine when they're important to the plot, but this felt like death for the sake of death. Okay, now on to the REAL disappointment of this book: Katniss herself. One of the reasons why I loved this series was because of Katniss. She was strong, resourceful, clever and cunning, she had an amazing survival instinct and she knew how to persevere. In Catching Fire, these qualities diminished; she was mainly a pawn, a puppet for others to use for their own objectives. But she still had some semblance of control and she was still Katniss. In Mockingjay, all these traits are scrapped and we get a Katniss-clone who is angsty and bitchy and whiny (wasn't Bella in Twilight bad enough?). Half the book, she's throwing herself pity parties in the closet (literally!). Sure, she definitely has reason to be sad and angry, and her life is full of hardships and tragedies. But I thought that the Katniss from the Hunger Games, the Katniss who had to keep her family alive since the age of 12, would be able to fight through and persevere. I guess I wanted a strong victor, a strong heroine, not a self-pitying victim who can't make her own decisions. That's another thing that bothered me: throughout the whole book, she had no control over ANYTHING, not even her own life and actions. She was a empty, lifeless pawn, a zombie if you will, who didn't do anything that wasn't directed or commanded by other people. In this novel, I was expecting her to STEP UP, embrace her role as Mockingjay, use her power/influence to get involved in the rebellion, take control of her life, and make a difference in the outcome of her world. I was expecting to see her grow and change and I was excited for her metamorphosis. Instead, we get this weak girl who's shirking all responsibilities, addled on drugs half the time, and lashing out at people the other half. Not only did she not improve herself from the first book (she was kickass in the first book btw), she got WORSE, an empty shadow of her former self. At the beginning, I could understand her confusion, her pain, her reluctance to be the Mockingjay. It'd be weird if she DIDN'T feel this way, if she didn't have that time of indecision and unwillingness. But after, I expected her to be strong and work through it, to face her fears and obstacles and choose to do the right thing, to really fight for justice. The best things in life never come easy; anybody who's done anything has had to overcome obstacles to accomplish their goals. When she decided: \"I must be the Mockingjay\", my heart soared (cheesy but it did!) and I was rooting for her 100%. When I heard her inspirational words during the propos, the fire behind them, my heart soared because I thought Katniss was back. But as I kept reading, I realized .. even though she verbally accepted her role, her mind still wasn't in it and she wasn't in control of herself. She didn't grow and become stronger, that's what pisses me off. The post-traumatic stress, the mental breakdowns, the self-pity, the self-loathing, the nearing of insanity .. all of these things are realistic, yes, but a bit tiresome and not very interesting to read when it's all the same and the narrator is drowning herself in it in the face of much greater things to the point where it detracts from the plot. These feelings shouldn't be the main focus throughout the ENTIRE novel. There has to be a turning point when she overcomes all of this and actively decides not to let these obstacles stand in her way. Now, many people will say her breakdown is more true to life, and it's what any normal 17-year-old girl would feel and go through. But, maybe I'm weird here, but for some stories, I don't WANT to read about the average, normal teenager. I want to read about someone who's a bit special, who's different, who displays traits (like courage, heart, perseverance) greater than the norm and accomplishes more than the \"normal, average teen\" even during the most difficult of times. Something that, when you close the book, makes you feel like \"Wow, they're amazing. Inspirational. I want to be like that.\" & to be honest, I didn't sign up to read a war documentary or some nonfiction account of how war affects its victims. I came in expecting a break from reality, a fantasy sci-fi young adult novel about a girl who becomes a hero. In trying to be as realistic as possible, I think Collins chose a pessimistic extreme of \"realism\" to portray. There are perfectly human people in real life in real circumstances who are able to fight through obstacles and hardships and come out on top without relying on drugs and hiding in closets. They can find more constructive and positive ways to deal with their problems. Sure, it obviously affects them (they're not invincible) but they don't lose themselves the way Katniss does. Those are the kinds of inspirational stories I wanna read when it comes to these kinds of novels, not this \"Diary of an Emo Puppet.\" This book was also REALLY anti-climactic. Whenever Collins finally gave us an exciting scene, as soon as it got intense, Katniss would get knocked out in the midst of things and we'd wake up to her in the hospital being treated. (MAJOR COP-OUT, in my opinion.) Then, of course, comes the inevitable centuries (that's what it felt like) of us hearing about her in pain and agony. Okay, we get it after reading about it the WHOLE novel! Now can she please pick herself up and make herself useful? Katniss doesn't deserve the title \"girl who was on fire\" and to be the main character in such an epic setting and story. Sure, she can be on fire, but only when someone sets her on fire or directs her to be on fire, not of her own doing. She was soulless and indifferent and cared about herself and her own feelings more than anyone else's (seeing as how she spends most of the novel grieving for herself and almost never for anyone else) .. if the main character, the narrator, doesn't care about anything and has no passion, why should we? What's the point when the main character whose eyes we're seeing through has no heart and no passion? And what happened to the selfless girl who willingly sacrificed her life to save her sister? The things I did like. I liked that Katniss had 2 seconds of mental clarity and shot Coin instead of Snow (the only time in the book when she was truly thinking clearly and acting of her own accord). I wonder if I'm giving her too much credit though; judging from her selfish one-track mind in this book, I fear that she did this only because Coin killed Prim, not because she saw the bigger picture. Worse yet, I fear this may just have been a result of Snow's manipulation, not her own decision. I also feel the significance and bravery of this smart moment was rendered meaningless by her immediate cowardly reaction: instead of having conviction in her action and facing the consequences, she scrambled frantically to find the most painless and quickest way to kill herself. She never once in the book acknowledges all she has to live for and all the positive things she still has in her life. When a character's will to survive is absent through a whole novel, I as a reader have no desire for them to live either; grant their wish already! But to continue on .. I liked learning about more of the characters in depth: Gale (who I grew to love even more in this book), Finnick, Annie, Boggs, Johanna, etc. I liked the ending passages (fitting and beautifully haunting) and I liked the songs (The Hanging Tree and the meadow one). There are probably some other things that I'll update this review with once disappointment and frustration are no longer clouding my brain. I wouldn't have minded so much if it had been a page-turner that was exciting to read, but trying to finish this book felt like a chore. When reading for enjoyment starts feeling like a chore, that's the ultimate sign that I dislike the book. 90% of the book, Katniss was wandering aimlessly through hallways, drugged out on morphling, hiding in a closet, or lying in a hospital bed. I kept waiting, I was so sure it would happen any minute, for the story-changing moment when Katniss would pick herself up and say \"Enough is enough.\" I kept waiting for the moment when the winds would change and she would decide with conviction to actively work through her problems -- but to my shock, that moment never came. This book seriously dragged and dragged and dragged, and just got slower and slower until everyone started dropping dead towards the last quarter of the book. The Hunger Games, I couldn't put it down; for this, I dreaded picking it up to finish it. I did tons of things in between reading this book (doing my nails, watching TV, taking a walk, etc) because I couldn't read it in one sitting without wanting to gouge my eyes out. It was the same reoccurring theme: Katniss was manipulated and controlled by everyone around her and she didn't think or do anything of her own will. It got old. I read all this build-up and didn't get rewarded for it. And even though the rebels triumphed, I didn't feel anything for them, not relief, not happiness, just nothing. I was just detached. And none of it was thanks to Katniss: her only role in the Capitol's defeat was watching Prim die, getting burned, and waking up in a hospital, where we're TOLD instead of SHOWN how the Capitol fell (all while she was unconscious, an occurrence that's way too common in this book). Again, anti-climactic! During the scene when it really mattered! I understand the message Collins is trying to convey and I agree with it: that war is awful and no one truly wins. And good and bad are not clearly defined black and white. (It got too preachy at certain points though, didn't it?) And I understand that not all books are unicorns-and-ponies happy endings, and that this series has always been intense and dark and a bit bleak. But that only works when there's an underlying message of hope and of optimism. I felt it in the 1st books, but this ending was devoid of all hope and happiness. Yes, humans are disgusting creatures who hurt and kill one another, who do horrible things because of greed and selfishness and just pure malice. But humans are also capable of love and compassion and kindness, and I wish she'd incorporated a bit of that into the story as well so there'd be a more hopeful ending. Even in real life, no matter how bad things may be, there is always hope. Isn't that the kind of message you really want young people to be left with? Instead of pessimistic doom and \"give up on mankind\"? I finished the book feeling hopeless and lost and depressed, and not in that deep, profound way where it motivates me to get up off my ass and do something to make a difference. Gosh, at least Harry was his own person and got to face Voldemort in the end. What did Katniss get to do except be an empty canvas for them to paint and feed lines to? Though I guess since I'm feeling so passionately about all of this, it wasn't a worthless read. It was just very, VERY disappointing. Edit: I just re-read this review a month or so after I wrote it and I sincerely apologize for my sloppy writing and overindulgence in run-on sentences! I was in a rush to unleash all my feelings after finishing the book so I wouldn't forget anything. I hope this review was understandable and enjoyable anyway :) That's the end of the review and you can stop here but I wanted to add on .. and I'm thinking those who grew up with Harry Potter like I did can relate: So I decided to re-read Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows to prepare myself for the upcoming movie, and to get the bitter taste of Mockingjay out of my mouth, and here's a passage towards the end where Harry's character really touched me and left me in awe: \"Because,\" said Harry, \"sometimes you've got to think about more than your own safety! Sometimes you've got to think about the greater good! This is war!\" \"You're seventeen, boy!\" \"I'm of age, and I'm going to keep fighting even if you've given up!\" a few sentences later .. \"I'm going to keep going until I succeed -- or I die. Don't think I don't know how this might end. I've known it for years.\" Reading it again makes me all emotional and teary all over again, from Dobby's heartfelt burial to Harry's courageous walk to his death in the forest, knowing fully well what awaits him and yet willing to sacrifice himself for others and for a better world ...all the while, struggling with his fears and the temptation to run away .. and I swear, tears of pride and joy sprang from my eyes and exhilaration shot through my veins when Harry, the boy we grew up with, stepped up as a man and faced his enemy with confidence, strength, wisdom. Whatever faults the last HP book may have, I just have to say: Thank you, Harry, for giving me hope again and proving there are still admirable heroes in young literature. ...more I\u2019m never very good at predicting outcomes. Nothing I could\u2019ve predicted would have been quite as good as this. Although I did get close (a very distant \"close\") on a few things, and I was right in saying that it wouldn\u2019t be walking through a field of flowers and sunshine. A book like this just couldn\u2019t be. It's good, and yet not good. Because it\u2019s good in a very heartbreaking, chilling, haunting, intense way. Katniss is a different person from the first two books. I found her softer, more thought I\u2019m never very good at predicting outcomes. Nothing I could\u2019ve predicted would have been quite as good as this. Although I did get close (a very distant \"close\") on a few things, and I was right in saying that it wouldn\u2019t be walking through a field of flowers and sunshine. A book like this just couldn\u2019t be. It's good, and yet not good. Because it\u2019s good in a very heartbreaking, chilling, haunting, intense way. Katniss is a different person from the first two books. I found her softer, more thoughtful, and also more open (granted, she's still kind of a brat sometimes. But don't we all have our moments?). In the first two books, even though the story is told by her, she\u2019s very closed off with us. This book is filled with more emotion, and I liked her best in this book, even though it's a tragedy of sorts. As I\u2019m stewing over the novel I read every word of yesterday, I think, \u201cDid I really love it?\u201d And then, \u201cHow could I love it?\u201d I shake my head. I can\u2019t love something so terribly sad and at times grotesque. Something so painful. Truthfully, I don\u2019t think I loved it. Love isn\u2019t the right word. It was a fantastic novel. I don't think I can come up with any better way for a trilogy of this kind to come to a close. The perfect note of sadness and sweetness, pain and healing all mixed up in a jumble. This book was far more severe than the first two. Much harder to read, and with more emotional depth, I think. Sometimes I just had to close the book for a while and breathe because I needed to stop for a bit, to regroup myself so I could get through a certain part. Collins wove in a few questions to ponder. Where do you draw the line? Do you give just what you got? Should you show mercy to those who haven\u2019t shown mercy to you? Is it right to kill innocent people just because the leaders on their side of the line killed innocent people on your side? Contrary to what some believe, this is not an anti-war book. Actually, I think Collins is trying to get us to ask ourselves questions about what justifies war, and where the line should be drawn between justice and vengeance. Not that we shouldn't fight, but that we know what's worth fighting for. Several notable characters die. It\u2019s painful, and it hurts to read it. Some believe that these characters didn\u2019t get enough homage. But since this is told from first-person, maybe it\u2019s just too painful for Katniss to dwell on those deaths. The last three pages make all the heavy, intense, painfulness of the rest of the book almost worth it, in a strange way. Bittersweet is the perfect word. The sense of loss underlying the message that life really does goes on, even when we don\u2019t see how it possibly can. Sometimes we need a little help to pick ourselves off the floor and start again. I wasn\u2019t disappointed with the ending, but I am disappointed that it\u2019s the end. It left me feeling emotionally drained and like I'd lost something. I'm not sure if I'm shell-shocked or simply worn out by the intensity of it all. I'm glad, in a way, that it ended like it did. I'm also sad, and a little confused. Not because I didn't like the ending, but because I simply feel emptied out for the time being. I just wish...I wish that there could have been more happiness for these characters that I love so much. I think that unfulfilled wish is, at the end of the day, why I'm feeling this way right now. In time the feeling will pass, I know, but at the moment I'm sorry for it. No matter how I enjoyed this book (and I did, I really did), I'm in a sort of grieving state. Happiness was there in the end, but it just wasn't enough to compensate for all the sadness. Then again, I think that was the point. It\u2019s a very rare thing to find a trilogy like this one, and I\u2019ll always hold a place in my heart for the girl who was on fire. ----- {pre-release} Waiting for this is torturous. I finished Catching Fire and wanted this in my hands immediately. Oh Suzanne, please let Peeta live (without becoming seriously maimed {again}, either)! :'( I know it's stupid, but I want a happy ending. Not like uber-happy, of course, I'm not unrealistic...but I just want to finish this trilogy humming and skipping around the house (yeah, laugh. I don't care! ;)) rather than lying around depressed afterwards wondering what went wrong...'cause I just hate when that happens. P.S. I'm not making any predictions because it feels like either my wishful thinking or my most dreaded outcome. I can't find a balance in between. Call me weird. All I can say without bias is that the ending will not be all walkin' in a field of flowers and happiness. :P ...more Update 11/28/14. So, of course I had to read it again after getting only half of the story from the Mockingjay movie. Unsurprisingly, cried and cried again. My feelings basically remain the same about this installment. Structurally, the novel is quite messy. There is such a big game going on and Katniss' motivations and actions don't always make sense to me. But the ending is brilliant, especially the final chapters. I need something to cheer me up ASAP. Let's face it, a series is only as good a Update 11/28/14. So, of course I had to read it again after getting only half of the story from the Mockingjay movie. Unsurprisingly, cried and cried again. My feelings basically remain the same about this installment. Structurally, the novel is quite messy. There is such a big game going on and Katniss' motivations and actions don't always make sense to me. But the ending is brilliant, especially the final chapters. I need something to cheer me up ASAP. Let's face it, a series is only as good as its last book. Is a kitchen towel drenched in my tears a good indicator of the quality of Mockingjay ? I think it is, considering that I am not a crying-over-books type. I think this book is a FANTASTIC ending of a FANTASTIC series. The book is lying next to me now, so deceitful in appearance, with its innocent, bright, cheerful cover. Who knew there would be so much darkness hidden between its pages, so much heartache? Mockingjay is indeed a DARK, DARK book full of deaths, sacrifices, torture, betrayal and despair, a book which takes you to a very disturbing but very real place. I have no doubt the novel will have thousands of readers livid, especially the crowd of readers who mistakenly think The Hunger Games trilogy is mostly dedicated to Team Gale/Team Peeta dilemma with some revolt thrown in as a picturesque backdrop. These books are about love indeed, but they are also about survival, freedom, and peace. I find it amazing that people are disappointed that Katniss doesn't take a Katniss-becomes-a-superwoman-and-takes-over-the-world-while-deciding-on-which-boy-to-pick route. How realistic is it to expect a child damaged by hunger, oppression, and violence she had to witness and take a part in, and thrown into the midst of all kinds of political intrigue, to achieve that? How many soldiers do you know who came out of a war unscathed or empowered by the atrocities they have witnessed? How many children? This is why this book has such a great effect on me. It takes a very difficult but honest route, portraying the infinitely damaging consequences of war (regardless of the righteousness of its cause) and Katniss's journey to stay true to herself and do the best she can. And the love triangle resolution. Truly, it couldn't have ended any other way. Is Mockingjay a perfectly written book? Absolutely not, it's not nearly as perfectly constructed or clear as The Hunger Games , but just like another imperfectly perfect successful series finale - Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - it brings its message across in the most honest and powerful way possible. <---A>Suzanne Collins</---A> is a genius, she is fearless and I have a great respect for the gutsiness of hers that didn't allow her to settle for an ending all wrapped up in pink paper with a perfect little bow. I am sure she knew that the faint of heart would be enraged. But she stuck to her guns and stayed true to her message and to her characters. The question now is how will I recover from PTSD of my own caused by Mockingjay ? It will probably take me months and a score of Georgia Nicolson diaries to get over it. But I love this book anyway, in spite (and because) of all the pain it has caused me. Real. ...more WHAT THE FUCK KIND OF AN ENDING IS THAT?! SERIOUSLY, WHAT THE FUCK KIND OF AN ENDING IS THAT? Ok, short summary. This is day 3 of my Hunger Games binge after I watched the last movie last Saturday without knowing anything about the books and not having watched any of the movies. First book. Awesome. Second book. Glorious. Third book. FUUUUUUUU *wails out something that sounds like \"fuck you, Peeta!!!!!!\"* So now I know what a Mockingjay is (and I can probably eat it), I know who Coin is, I know wh WHAT THE FUCK KIND OF AN ENDING IS THAT?! SERIOUSLY, WHAT THE FUCK KIND OF AN ENDING IS THAT? Ok, short summary. This is day 3 of my Hunger Games binge after I watched the last movie last Saturday without knowing anything about the books and not having watched any of the movies. First book. Awesome. Second book. Glorious. Third book. FUUUUUUUU *wails out something that sounds like \"fuck you, Peeta!!!!!!\"* So now I know what a Mockingjay is (and I can probably eat it), I know who Coin is, I know who President Snow is, and I know why Peeta is so thin. And now that we've gotten that over with... What the fuck happened to Katniss?! How did she end up being so admirable and awesome in the first two books and turned into such a sniveling, squishy mess in this one? The answer: Peeta. What the fuck happened to Peeta? Ok, fine, we know what happened to Peeta, but that doesn't make it any better because he's collateral damage. And Katniss is the one who gets hurt with her stupid obsession of him. In this book, Gale was my favorite. He's the voice of reason. It's war, people have to die in order for there to be peace. And Katniss is like all noooooooo, we have to save ALL THE PEOPLE, INCLUDING THE ONE WHO COULD GET US ALL KILLED. Because I love(d?) him ;_; NO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Fuck your single-mindedness, Katniss. YOU HAD ONE JOB. And it's to save your people, not your boyfriend, fianc\u00e9, whatever. And that ending. That stupid ending. I'm sorry, I know that life doesn't always turn out well, but dammit, Suzanne Collins, you put us through the wringer with the last two books. You made us care about these people, and WE DESERVE A BETTER ENDING THAN THAT. ...more 3.5 stars Well, hmmm. I'm not sure how to react to Mockingjay. I didn't love it and I'm not sure it satisfied me, but it was a disturbing read that will stick with me. Sadly, I can't say that I'll be recommending the series as fervently as I did after reading The Hunger Games . Not that the series isn't good, but I'm not longer sure it's for the masses of YA readers. Like Catching Fire , Mockingjay took awhile for me to get into. When the pages turned into the triple digits and I wasn't hooked, I go 3.5 stars Well, hmmm. I'm not sure how to react to Mockingjay. I didn't love it and I'm not sure it satisfied me, but it was a disturbing read that will stick with me. Sadly, I can't say that I'll be recommending the series as fervently as I did after reading The Hunger Games . Not that the series isn't good, but I'm not longer sure it's for the masses of YA readers. Like Catching Fire , Mockingjay took awhile for me to get into. When the pages turned into the triple digits and I wasn't hooked, I got worried it wouldn't be epic. And maybe that's problem: I expected this to match The Hunger Games when I don't think anything can. Like Catching Fire , the stakes are upped, the gruesomeness of war more real, and the intensity more fierce. And in the end, that was my biggest problem. In my opinion, this crossed the line with violence into shock value for the sake of shock value. Yes, it's meant to be thought-provoking and show the price of war to humanity, but at the peak of all this violence, I pulled out of the story. It wasn't President Snow or President Coin (I hated that name) torturing Katniss; it was Collins. I could see the questions running through her head: \"What is the worst thing I could do to Katniss? What will break her the most?\" In war, the casualties fall randomly, if heavily, but this was all targeted at Katniss. The death that should have hurt most hardly fazed me (view spoiler) [Primrose (hide spoiler) ] ; at that point, I had already shut down in a story that was working too hard to manipulate my emotions. It was (view spoiler) [Finnick's death (hide spoiler) ] killed me (no pun intended), and it disappeared like a whisper. It seemed like Collins picked the only character she made us care about in this book on purpose. It should have felt natural to the progression of the story, but it didn't. (view spoiler) [Primrose's death upset me because it made the whole series seem pointless, which I'm sure is the frustration Collins was going for--the futility of war, the aftereffect, the scarring, the psychological burden--but it's so under described and anticlimactic that it fell short for me. (hide spoiler) ] Plus, the desensitization was, in my opinion, too much. There is a lot of bleakness in the other books in the series, but it is balanced with a humanity and hope that I think is crucial in YA fiction. My review of Hunger Games states that Collins took an unbelievable story and made it believable. Here, she took the believable violence and cruelty of war and made it a little unbelievable for me. I struggled to find motivation from President Snow targeting children, to understand why the citizens of the capital continued to believe him, to accept that these villains could be this sadistically evil, to believe that this much could go wrong for one person, to champion Collin's bleak take on humanity. Not that this story is any more unbelievable than The Hunger Games , but Collins delivered this one with such a numb, detached string of events that relied on violence instead of characters to deliver her message. Even more important than hope in YA is a strong character you would follow anywhere. I didn't want to follow Katniss in this story. She shut down in the end, but really she'd been shutting down the entire book. After the fiery character of the first two books, it was hard to get nothing from her (especially as a first-person POV) and still feel vested in the outcome of her story. Her cold, detached comments to (view spoiler) [Peeta (hide spoiler) ] in particular bothered me, especially after everything he sacrificed for her. I had to keep reminding myself of all the horror she'd been through because although her detachment realistic, it bothered me. I couldn't remember why anyone wanted a self-absorbed teenager as the Mockingjay. I didn't need Katniss to lead the revolution, but I wanted something from her: a peek into her emotions/insights, a proactive motion, anything that pushed her character forward. Without any character development (from any of the characters), the story relied too heavily on action without connecting the pieces, developing those story lines, or making me care about the characters involved. I would have almost rather heard the story from a third party watching a broken Mockingjay than the emptiness with which Katniss tells her story. What I really wanted is Katniss back. I know I can't have her, but if I had to lose her, I wanted to feel heartbreak instead of nothing. About the love triangle... (view spoiler) [You need only look at the comment section to this review to know I'm a Gale fan--was a Gale fan. But I was happy with the resolution for these reasons: 1. Gale never showed up in this book, not the intense Gale hiding a painful love for Katniss that I loved. Not once in this book did I feel his love for her. Was comfortable with her, coldly understanding, wanted to win her because it was a competition, but never once did I sense any love. And when he knew the enormous hurdle he had to overcome to win her back, he laughed and walked away. I would not have minded if the Gale who showed up for this story had been one of its casualties. It was pretty clear from the first chapter that Collins was directing us away from this relationship she had dangled in front of us. If this is the way the relationship had always been, as this book seems to imply, than this is the relationship that should have been there in Catching Fire . 2. For the first time in the trilogy, Peeta was not a Gary Stu, a doormat, a little too sacrificial for me to believe. He bite back. Unlike during the games, I never doubted that he could survive on his own. He stopped wanting to be a pointless martyr (the death pleas were still there, but this time they made sense). Not that I ever wanted Peeta to be mean or broken, but he can have heart and a backbone too. He could have a few flaws. Finally, I could root for him. 3. My last reason is not that as Gale and Peeta changed, Katniss did too, and so did the world they lived in. In a harsh war world, you need someone strong and skilled by your side. In the other books, Katniss needed Gale. In a world where you have lost everything and no longer have a reason or the mental state or the will to fight, you need someone soft and caring. Even before Katniss said her bit about needing heart not fire, I knew she was going to say it. And finally, the words were true. So yes, I am eating my words and saying Katniss ended up with the right person. I just hate what Collins did to her to make her need it. (hide spoiler) ] I guess what depresses me most about this book is that I expected so much more from it. I know Collins is capable of power. In the end, I was too numb to feel its power, to even cry, to feel anything at all. I left a fantastic series with a major blank. ...more i NEVER thought i'd ever rate this book below a 5...but here i am....and the only reason i gave it a three even is because the first two books of the hunger games were just SO GOOD they brought this one up...by three stars. honestly, i\u2019ve waited so long for mockingjay to come out. i practically peed my pants on august 24th and now that i\u2019ve finally finished the book (thanks to a full day of obsessive reading-meals not included) all i can feel is\u2026annoyance. annoyance and disappointment. annoyance i NEVER thought i'd ever rate this book below a 5...but here i am....and the only reason i gave it a three even is because the first two books of the hunger games were just SO GOOD they brought this one up...by three stars. honestly, i\u2019ve waited so long for mockingjay to come out. i practically peed my pants on august 24th and now that i\u2019ve finally finished the book (thanks to a full day of obsessive reading-meals not included) all i can feel is\u2026annoyance. annoyance and disappointment. annoyance that katniss let herself be so easily used, didn't really care about anything, and was idle for so much of the book. and disappointment that you never really get any closure with gale, peeta wasn\u2019t there for a third of the book, and he \u201cwasn\u2019t himself\u201d for almost all of it. but mostly just mad that nothing really happened for large portions of the book. like\u2026katniss seemed kinda\u2026stuck all throughout. i\u2019ve always loved her because she was a character that didn\u2019t break down easily but mental breakdowns seemed like her favorite activity in this book. she spent like a fourth of the book missing peeta but she never actually DID anything about it. and then when he was saved she barely even talked to him let alone tried to help him. okay *spoiler alert* one of the only bright spots of this book is finding out about finnick\u2019s past. i was definitely surprised by all he had to say. it made me like him even more. i can honestly say he was the only character that didn't annoy me once in mockingjay\u2026AND THEN HE DIED. i am SO MAD that finnick and cinna\u2019s death were pretty much considered inconsequential. like yeah, katniss was sad, but neither of them got like a dramatic tragical death. it was just \u201cyeah. they died. it sucks.\u201d and that really bummed me out cause i LOVED them both. i thought finnick's death was three times as devastating as prims, mostly because i feel like we never got to know prim well enough to really mourn her death. but for finnick i had to go back and reread the page several times before i could actually accept that he had died. and even then i hoped he would magically pop to life again. and not a single tear shed for him from katniss? NOT. OKAY. even though this was the book where the most characters died, it was also the book where i didn't cry once reading it. mostly because katniss didn't seem to really even care about anything which sort of killed my sympathy and sparked annoyance instead. and yeahh\u2026so back to the whole non-closure thing with gale? it was just so\u2026anticlimatic and\u2026lacking. i\u2019ve been a peeta supporter since the first chapter of the first book and even i hated how katniss and gale ended. i don\u2019t know. i just think that maybe i was expecting this last book to follow basically the same format as the hunger games and catching fire, and i\u2019m just ridiculously (like seriously to the point where it\u2019s pathetic) disappointed that it took such a different turn. \u2026and now that i know the entire series is over so that\u2019s the only ending i\u2019m gonna get....:'( katniss\u2019s shining moment appeared near the end though. when she decided to shoot coin instead of president snow. it almost brought back the old hunger-games-and-catching-fire-rational-and-strong katniss. almost. but then she had to go and try to get herself addicted to morphine in a suicide attempt. bleh. i always knew this was a somewhat dark series, but this book was just. so. bleak. reading it was pretty much equivalent to cutting my wrists. perhaps no amount of writing could ever have helped suzanne collins live up to my sky high expectations of this book but still\u2026. the book could have been better. a lot. better. ...more [ This just in : the movie adaptation, Mockingjay: Part 1 , was absolutely outstanding. I've seen both of the other movies for this series, and while I enjoyed them greatly, the third instalment was on another level entirely. It's one of the best movies I've seen in a very, very long time. Good job, movie people. You made a meh book into a stellar piece of cinema.] Those two stars are for the last ten pages, which were absolutely outstanding. Probably the best ten pages of the series. The 380 pages [ This just in : the movie adaptation, Mockingjay: Part 1 , was absolutely outstanding. I've seen both of the other movies for this series, and while I enjoyed them greatly, the third instalment was on another level entirely. It's one of the best movies I've seen in a very, very long time. Good job, movie people. You made a meh book into a stellar piece of cinema.] Those two stars are for the last ten pages, which were absolutely outstanding. Probably the best ten pages of the series. The 380 pages before that, however, deserve nothing. The first 380 pages can kiss my ass. This book was a fucking slog. I kid you not. This book tried me to the point of breaking. About halfway through, I was ready to feed the damn thing to my dog. I'm not the biggest Hunger Games fan. Y'all know that. However, when I read Catching Fire , after its predecessor disappointed me, I was STOKED to read Mockingjay . Catching Fire was just fantastic. I really, really and truly enjoyed it. Mockingjay was a bloodbath. If you're sensitive to pointless deaths and gratuitous violence, then this is not the book for you. Actually, I like that word. Gratuitous . It describes this book perfectly. Everything in this book was gratuitous and over the top, from the wangst to the ridiculous romantic interludes in the middle of battle scenes, and from the candy-gore violence to the stupid, overly-disgusting deaths of several characters who did not need to die. There's also the writing, which is so overwrought - it's not even like the author took the sparseness of the first book and butchered it. It's like she took the sparseness, fed it to her dog, fed the dog to a crocodile, fed the crocodile to a Tyrannosaurus rex, cut the Tyrannosaurus rex up into steaks, sold the steaks in Soho to a cabaret dancer, A-bombed the cabaret dancer's house, collected the ashes, mixed them into fluorescent paint, and then splattered the paint all over the White House in D.C. Because we, as readers who have stuck by and read the entire series through, need an entire page of Creative Writing Class explanation on what the Hanging Tree song means. It's like in the first book, when we were constantly being told exactly what the dandelions represent. And in Catching Fire , when the meaning being the clock was spelled out in an \"I AM SYMBOLISM\" manner. Everything, from Katniss's clothes (which she's weirdly fixated with) to her circular, drier-than-Egyptian-sand inner monologues were painstakingly pored over to the point of ridiculousness. Yes. Ridiculousness. Shall I repeat that again? Ridiculousness. One more time? No? Ridiculousness. Ridiculousness. Contrary to the masses, I love reading books where loads of lovable characters die in the final fight. I love going through that grief, feeling the torment of watching one of my beloved friends die a bloody death. In fact, in my own work, I have a death list. I kid you not. I literally have a list of the most beloved characters, and I've put stars in red pen against all those who die. There are many red stars on that list. But what I do not enjoy, and what I found far too much of in Mockingjay , are pointless deaths. Deaths that don't ensure anyone else's survival, are excessively undignified, or never grieved for. Finnick, Mesalla, Mitchell, Boggs, and Cinna all died ridiculous deaths that really did nothing to aid Katniss's bringing down the Capitol. Essentially, they were all just Mauve Shirts, and they had been all along. I mean, fine. If the author wanted to kill these characters, go ahead and do it. It's actually not the fact that the characters died that bothered me. Yes, I was absolutely distraught over the death of Finnick (he just married Annie! Annie was pregnant! What the fuck kind of sadist kills that?) but given the choice myself? I'd probably kill him too. But the way in which Finnick dies is nonsensical. YA is a tricky field in which to write dystopian. True dystopian always deals with death. It always deals with untimely death, tragic lives and terrible situations in which people are abused and scarred, in any and every way. But YA is inspiring to young people. YA is a window to different ideologies and -isms held up by other people; for instance, Mockingjay is a clear message against war. But YA is also meant for a broad audience of a younger age, and that comes with a responsibility to instill a message that yes, will inspire, but coax some kind of hope out of readers. Some kind of desire to be a better person. Some kind of knowledge that there are wonderful things in the world worth salvaging, and weathering difficult patches in life will ultimately result in a brighter future. This sounds idealistic, I know. But this series is shelved in Children's. Kids as young as 12 are picking these books up, and what are they finding? The world sucks. People suck. Give up, and stop caring, because nothing good will ever come of trying. Perseverance will get you nowhere. Suicide and alcoholism will make you feel better. No . Where is Katniss? Who's the drugged-up shadow that's replaced her? In Mockingjay , this fickle, doom-and-gloom girl is not the battleaxe we met in The Hunger Games . This Katniss is constantly waking up in hospital, taking drugs and completely losing the will to fight for the people she loves. Her voice is flat, drab, full of a whole lot of wangst surrounding the love triangle that, during the latter half of the book, became one of the very main concerns. What? I hear a lot of guff about this not being a romance, but it's quite clear that it is. And the scene in Tigris's cellar when Katniss pretends to sleep, but actually lies awake listening to Gale and Peeta talk about how they both love her unconditionally, and are perfectly fine to let her choose who she'll pick like a carton of juice off the shelf in the supermarket, and who she'll dump on his ass? Brought back some pretty pungent T-word memories. Gale and Peeta have absolutely no self-respect, and this scene was totally unrealistic. People do not behave like that in real life. Think about it: you're sitting facing the person who you know has been fooling around with the person you wholeheartedly love, and have done for years. The person you one day see yourself marrying. Are you really going to say, \"Oh, I know how he/she feels about you. I know he/she has been making out with you behind my back, just after making out with me. I'm cool with that. I get it. No biggie.\" Don't even lie. I know that if I were Peeta or Gale, I'd be absolutely furious with Katniss. I'd demand to know why I was being toyed with, used even, and frankly? I'd walk away. I'd pick up my dignity and get out of there, because being treated like a piece of chewy candy in a pack of two that she can't decide whether or not to eat is an insult, and unspeakably degrading. I kind of wanted Katniss to end up alone. Yes, once I'd forced myself to come to terms with the fact that that wasn't going to happen, I did enjoy the last ten pages greatly. Greatly. They were quite beautiful, actually, as long as I pushed myself to suck up everything I hated about the miserable and hopeless tone of this book. What I didn't enjoy was Gale's end. What happened to him? Oh, he's in District 2. And what's he doing in Distict 2? Dunno. How did he get there? Dunno. Why did he go there? Dunno. How does he feel about Katniss being with Peeta out of default, not either one's choice? Dunno. What's he going to do with his life now? Where is he going to live? What's going to happen to this character that we've been forced upon for almost three whole books, and 1200+ pages, and who's played a huge part in the story of Katniss's life? Uh...I dunno. I also couldn't believe Katniss's trial just happened without us. What the heck? Katniss is moping and plotting her suicide gratuitously in her room in the Capitol, and then one day Haymitch wanders in and says, \"Your trial's over. You're free as a bird.\" Yes, Katniss is free as a bird. She goes home and lives out the rest of her days as she pleases (and her mother just buggers off too, like Gale did. Where's your mom, Katniss? \"Oh, somewhere.\"). This whole thing felt like a sputtering fizzle-out of what really should have been a fantastic series. Part way through Catching Fire , I was considering that this series may even be literary, but Mockingjay spat on that. This is commercial YA, through and through. Yeah, the strong message about war and the hopelessness of Katniss tries to cover it up, but it has everything: silly love triangle, cackling villain, and the fate of the world resting on a teenager's shoulders. What's that? Oh, yeah. This is silly. Silly. Katniss's Mockingjay role was equally silly. One minute Katniss is insisting, \"I'M THE MOCKINGJAY BITCH!\" and then the next, she says that she just doesn't care about it. She doesn't care about the Mockingjay, or all the stupid TV spots they do, or anything really. And then BAM! \"I'M THE MOCKINGJAY BITCH!\" Katniss got on my nerves here. As did her constant use of arrows in futuristic combat. What is that? Since when was there an explosive that could fit on the head of an arrow and blow up an entire airship? Why am I even trying to reason this? The bow and arrows did not have a place in the world of Mockingjay . It seemed overwhelmingly stupid for Katniss to still be using arrows, a prehistoric weapon, when everyone else around her was using firearms and bombs. There's also the \"sheath\" business, which is just ridiculous. It literally takes 0.40 seconds to Google \"bow and arrows\" and find that arrows are held in a quiver. See? Simple! The writing in this book irritated me. The first hundred pages are almost comically boring, and the prose suffers under nonsensical fragments, run-on sentences and huge internal monologues in the middle of conversations. It's just damn hard to read. Mockingjay was such a flop for me. While the idea of exploring PTSD in war veterans was very interesting, it was employed in such a way that it brought the narrative in this book to a painful grind. There was absolutely no hope left within Katniss, and her complete derailment just destroyed any hope left in the message of this book. The writing was irritating, the deaths pointless, the violence totally over-the-top. Mockingjay was a great big depressing flop . Bonus Time! ...more SPOILERS!!! ******************* Ugh. I was just thankful that I decided to be grown-up and not wait until midnight to get this book and then stay up all night reading it. I kindled it early this morning and ignored my kids for 4 hours and got through it. This book makes you realize how much the storyline in the first two depended upon the tension created by the love triangle. In Mockingjay, the author robs her readers of what they (I) crave! By the end, everything is so messed up that Peeta vs. Ga SPOILERS!!! ******************* Ugh. I was just thankful that I decided to be grown-up and not wait until midnight to get this book and then stay up all night reading it. I kindled it early this morning and ignored my kids for 4 hours and got through it. This book makes you realize how much the storyline in the first two depended upon the tension created by the love triangle. In Mockingjay, the author robs her readers of what they (I) crave! By the end, everything is so messed up that Peeta vs. Gale became \"OH snap. Who even cares anymore?\" I couldn't help but be disappointed--it was so violent, everyone dies (I CANNOT forgive Collins for taking away both Finnick and Prim!!) and even though there is a nicely packaged epilogue, I wanted more...EXPECTED more out of this final installment. I have to chalk this work up to \"Twilight Syndrome\"...gifted authors with an original page-turning first book, followed by hurried, increasingly poorly written and thought-out sequels. Bottom line: You have to read it, but don't spend money on it- wait and borrow it from your friend. And then fondly recall the excellence of the first book. ...more Mockingjay, the final book in Suzanne Collin's Hunger Games Trilogy. For a year, I had been anxiously waiting to read the about the adventures of the rebels, the hopefully happy ending. How wrong was I. There is an ending - but it is not as happy as most expected it to be. The rebels fought, they won. But in a sense, Collin's shows us that when violence is used to such extremes, no one wins; yes, a winner is declared - but the sadness and loss of both sides proves that no one really wins in war Mockingjay, the final book in Suzanne Collin's Hunger Games Trilogy. For a year, I had been anxiously waiting to read the about the adventures of the rebels, the hopefully happy ending. How wrong was I. There is an ending - but it is not as happy as most expected it to be. The rebels fought, they won. But in a sense, Collin's shows us that when violence is used to such extremes, no one wins; yes, a winner is declared - but the sadness and loss of both sides proves that no one really wins in war. While reading this book, I felt almost as depressed as a sober Haymitch. There is a lot of death throughout the book (I sobbed at Finnick's). However, even though there is so much death in this book, most of it comes to new characters; the leader of district 13, Coin; Bogg, one of Katniss's bodyguards; mostly new or unknown characters that pass on. But alot of the death-related sadness in the book comes not from individual characters, but more from Katniss's vivid description of the mass homicide that they are left with at the end of the war. The group of children murdered on President Snow's doorstep - Prim included. The workers trapped in the Nut, a mountain in district two. The hospital burned down in district eight. That, more than anything, sets such a depressing tone. In my opinion, however, it wasn't death that made such a sad air around the book. Some of the tortures make it worse. Peeta's hijacking, Finnick's molestation, Johanna's physical pain. And to top the list, Katniss - expected to be the rock strong Mockingjay when all of this happens around her. All this pain that she goes though, and so much more, should make her deserve a happy life afterwards. However, instead of in the company of her surviving friends and family, she finds herself alone, in a burned-down district, sitting by the fire in her Victor's house. That, more that anything, saddens the reader. When Katniss deserves someone with her, to make her feel less alone, the only person to console her is herself. Yes, in the end she and Peeta end up together. But during the book, she is always alone. Even though this book is a far departure from the first two books, I believe that Suzanne saved her own series. She, like Cinna, made sure that no one would forget the 'girl on fire'. When so many books have slightly bittersweet endings, this book is much heavier on the bitter, distinguishing itself from so many others. There is no Disney ending to the Hunger Games, and I believe that if there was one than it would ruin the message of the series. Suzanne Collins created her third bittersweet masterpiece, completeing one of the most different and best trilogies in YA Fiction today. **note** its beautiful writing, too. suzanne collins has a gorgeous voice. ...more This review has spoilers! Bitches... What were you doing when you were 16? Checking your boobs each morning to see if the Boob Fairy had paid you a visit? Sneaking out of the house to the park down the street where you and your six friends would share a single can of beer and pretend you're drunk? Making out? Homework? Fighting with your parents? Watching scary movies? Katniss is sixteen years old and she's been in two Hunger Games, fighting against twenty-odd opponents to the death. Then she becom This review has spoilers! Bitches... What were you doing when you were 16? Checking your boobs each morning to see if the Boob Fairy had paid you a visit? Sneaking out of the house to the park down the street where you and your six friends would share a single can of beer and pretend you're drunk? Making out? Homework? Fighting with your parents? Watching scary movies? Katniss is sixteen years old and she's been in two Hunger Games, fighting against twenty-odd opponents to the death. Then she becomes the symbol of the rebel leadership and helps overthrow an evil empire before she can legally drink. So I suppose it's really ridiculous of anyone to expect her capable of then going on to be president of this new world after everything she's been through. Nobody would be evil enough to force that on her considering her fragile mental state... Except me. [image error] Maleficent and I go way back... But this is fantasy, right, it's not like children or teenagers are really capable of this much! It would be totally unrealistic of me to expect much more of Katniss considering all she's done... Well, except for the cute little nine-year-old Htoo twins who lived in the Karen National Rebel camp when the enemy came and all the soldiers ran away leaving their AK-47's. These two nine-year-olds thought it'd be a hoot to pick up a few guns and hold off the entire invading Burmese army... successfully. And that would be a really cute story except for the fact that they went on to create their own army who were convinced that these two little chain-smokin' tykes had magical powers and were invincible. But I mean, they're a fluke! It's not like any other kids did great things. Well, unless you're counting Iqbal Masih who was made a slave at the age of five and chained to his loom for twelve hours a day. Still, the little tyke managed to escape when he was ten so he only had to endure the first half of his life with unspeakable cruelty and torturous living conditions that left him unable to grow. Luckily, when he got out he ran off into the sunset and lived happily ever after. *Kat is interrupted by whispering* Wait - what? He didn't? *More whispering* He joined the Bonded Labor Liberation Front of Pakistan as their spokesperson, going RIGHT back into the slave trade that had abused and tormented him for five years so that he could rescue another three THOUSAND children from slavery? Shit. Get off the computer you lazy little cow and go rescue some child slaves! Oh and by the way, he only stopped after two years because he'd affected carpet manufacturing so much that carpet export in those years dropped by $200,000,000 and he was assasinated in 1995 for being too damn awesome. At 12 years old my greatest achievement was not killing myself while I shaved my legs! I wasn't going to mention St Joan of Arc because that comparison would be a little too easy but since I have time I'll just quietly mutter that she helped lead France to a number of tactical defeats in the Hundred Year's War, crowned a King and was Burned as a witch before she was nineteen years old. But, no, it's too much to ask that Katniss step up into a role like that! After all, she had PTSD and she was traumatized. It would be evil for any adult to keep her on retainer as a figurehead to inspire the people. Which, by the way, if I were an adult in power in this particular world - I would totally do. But Katniss isn't the only one I'd keep to do my bidding. I'd keep Peeta around too. Occasionally, I'd pull them out of their little therapy/rejuvination bubble to do short propos on how the new unified nation was moving forward in positive steps and how everything was improving. And since I am only moderately evil and am actually very fond of Katniss and Peeta, I find the fact that they were allowed to go home and live out their quiet little lives peacefully to be very unrealistic. In fact, it was the only really unrealistic thing in this novel and let's remember that I'm including genetically altered mutts and beams that can melt your skin off on that list! So she did a little thing like shooting President Coin. Let's be realistic. Until a few days earlier, the Capitol didn't even know who President Coin was and every single district apart from 13 probably had never seen her. She has the personality of a dead fish left on hot concrete for three days that had been shat on - and the charisma to match! I doubt many of the residents of district 13 even held any great love for her! Most of the population of Panem was probably going to immediately assume that President Coin somehow had it coming. After all, if Katniss shoots you - you probably did something bad. Something very, very bad! The election of Paynor was just ridiculous and unrealistic. You have a nation so fractured that it's fourteen different districts have never cooperated or worked or even really MET each other. Plus the fact that they're in economic collapse and dealing with the fallout of a costly war. I just can't bring myself to believe that they wouldn't drug Katniss up, put her smiling face on stage and have some kind of deciding power working behind closed doors while Katniss waved happily to the smiling faces and kissed babies. It reminds me of that scene in Ender's Game when Ender is reminiscing about how he's just won the war as one of the greatest generals of recent history and suddenly, in the clean up effort, he's become useless because the adults don't think that the same leadership and skills it requires to lead an army, could also be useful to rebuild a world. But Katniss and Peeta have the perfect matching set of skills to help put the world back together and they already have the love and trust of most of the population! I'm not saying they'd want to do it. I'm saying I doubt, realistically, that they'd have a choice in the matter. Now, apart from the ending - which I didn't mind, just was baffled by - I loved and adored this book. Peeta's hijacking was devestating, Katniss' mental breakdown was harrowing. Finnick! *cries* and I'd really held out that maybe somehow Cinna had survived and been kept as a prisoner like Peeta - but alas, no! And everytime he was mentioned in the costuming etc I wanted to cry. The battles, the politics, it was all such an amazing novel and the end to an amazing series. I'm honestly in love with Suzanne Collins because she's such a brave writer. She's not scared to go to dark places and she's not scared to scar her characters up a bit. She's happy to take the audience out of their comfort zone and I LOVE that about her. Catching Fire and Mockingjay could never match the perfect pacing and brilliant plot of The Hunger Games but they're still amazing books full of suspense, action, great characterization and thoughtful dialogue. They reflect circumspectly on our society as Collin's asks us to see ourselves through the eyes of Katniss. I've heard a little bit of mumbling about the relationship between Peeta and Katniss. It's interesting to bring up because I've heard the concept that Katniss doesn't deserve Peeta a lot. Why? Is she as patient, devoted and understanding of Peeta and he is of her? Absolutely not. Katniss regularly fails at patient and kind. I'd also highly doubt that this would come of any shock to Peeta. He didn't fall in love with her not knowing who she was. He's watched her for years and he has ALWAYS been the one to feel more deeply, act unselfishly in her favor and to give more of himself. That's who they are as a couple. Katniss on the other hand, I'm relieved to say, is a female character who isn't hung up on emotions and the postures of love. She loves Peeta enough to make herself sick and crazy at the thought of what's happening to him - but she's also a functional, strong person who has a job to do. She's not like Bella who falls to pieces when Edward leaves. She can't afford to and she's never been one to sit around and obsess over how perfect Peeta's hair is or comment on his body like it's a marble statue. I guess what I'm saying is that if Peeta feels like he deserves Katniss and vice versa, then who am I to argue? So whilst I didn't satisfactorily buy the ending, I really loved this book and highly recommend this series - even if I had to out myeslf as an evil, plotting witch with political aspirations of taking over the world to do it! *Can I also just add that Katniss' mother is the saddest excuse for a human being - in reality, she's a sack of shit who should never have had children. I can't think of more horrible things to call her right now because I'm so angry at her! Gah! ...more How do I begin to convey my disappointment? I suppose it all comes down to expectations and as mine were not met, I feel vastly underwhelmed, and a little bit devastated. When I read HungerGames , I was enthralled. I thought Katniss was intelligent, resourceful, and displayed tremendous strength in character. Moreover, Katniss\u2019s arc appeared to parallel with the overall arc of the story/series. As Katniss grew more bold, so did the remaining characters and the uprising initiative. I expected this How do I begin to convey my disappointment? I suppose it all comes down to expectations and as mine were not met, I feel vastly underwhelmed, and a little bit devastated. When I read HungerGames , I was enthralled. I thought Katniss was intelligent, resourceful, and displayed tremendous strength in character. Moreover, Katniss\u2019s arc appeared to parallel with the overall arc of the story/series. As Katniss grew more bold, so did the remaining characters and the uprising initiative. I expected this to continue in Catching Fire . However, Katniss appeared to stagnate, whereas the remaining characters and overall story arc continued on without her. By the end of book 2, Katniss was still in \u201csurvivor\u201d mode, and failed to deliver anything beyond demonstration of those already proven survival instincts that we readers discovered in book 1. Nonetheless, my love for HungerGames left me with hope that Katniss would finally step into her role as not only a symbol of hope and rebellion against tyranny, but as a leader in an uprising that opposes oppression, and emboldens freedom of choice and will. Much to my dismay, it never occurs. Perhaps I am mistaken, but I was under the impression that this series was meant to be about revolting against a corrupt, freedom suppressing government and replacing it with a new government that not only condones freedom in all its forms, but fosters it, allowing it to thrive. For this to be an achievable story arc, Katniss has to develop into something more than a resourceful hunter, shooter of arrows, and unpredictable pawn. She has to embolden herself, as the districts have had to embolden themselves, grab her title as MockingJay by the balls, and make her own choices, cut her own path, and shoot down those who stand in her way literally and figuratively. Otherwise what is the point of revolution if the very person who made it possible doesn\u2019t follow through? But in MockingJay we don\u2019t get an emboldened Katniss, we simply get more of the same, actually, we get less than the same. When Katniss isn\u2019t hiding in closets, passed out from injuries, strung out on morphine, or walking around the compound in a near catatonic state, Katniss will exert herself in her typical yet unpredictable brash reactor form, always manipulated by those around her. She still lacks control over her life. She isn\u2019t a warrior in the rebellion, she is a weapon, a tool, a pawn. Other times she is completely useless all-together. She is dictated to and she may or may not deliver. Where did the potential leader go I ask you? This late in the game, Katniss needed to grow as a character, to complete the story arc, if not her own character\u2019s journey, properly. Katniss has been used to spur the other districts into revolution because she is supposed to possess strength in character as seen in the Hunger Games. She is now the face of the revolution, whether she meant to be or not. The districts have become inspired by the ball busting Katniss they perceive her to be, and it\u2019s a lie. Turns out she isn\u2019t opposed to being used as long as it\u2019s people she knows calling the shots (District 13). I would have been fine with this course of events had they appeared in CatchingFire . But by the final installment, Katniss needed to be in charge of her own fate, to understand her role, to be a role model. Instead I felt as though I was reading the POV of a mentally unstable drug addict. Then there is the rebellion itself. I was expecting carnage, war, suffering, and terror seen through the eyes of our previous heroine (Katniss) and hero (Peeta). Instead we suffer through ad campaigns and one unnecessary adventure that doesn\u2019t occur until the last portion of the book, and even that is unsatisfying with all its useless deaths (Finnick and Primm). Frankly, Finnick was the best part of MockingJay and I couldn\u2019t even mourn him properly as his face time was so minimal and his death so swift. But back on point, what was the purpose for Katniss\u2019s man killing mission? Is she really so daft that she can\u2019t see the bigger picture? Can\u2019t she rise above baser human emotions, and the events that pertain only to her? Can\u2019t she at least attempt to be worthy of the responsibility that has befallen her? Can\u2019t she at least strive to earn it? And what\u2019s most pathetic is that the revenge attempt that cost the lives of Finnick and Primm was all for nothing. Snow lives, until TB takes him. At least that\u2019s what I assume happens, it never is very clear on how he died. But my biggest question is, why does Collins hate Peeta? When she wasn\u2019t making him an invalid in books 1 and 2, he shined. Now in book 3 he has forgotten his love for Katniss and has been programmed by the Capital to kill her. What the hell? Why? Why not let him finally prove his worth, achieve his greatness? Why did she have to make him someone\u2019s bitch? This book is a sham. A cop out. And it destroys the integrity of the previous books in the series. The characters fail to develop and even digress into wretched states. The ending is a crap shoot, and that epilogue was bullshit. I\u2019m Team Peeta through and through, but I feel ripped off. Katniss didn\u2019t choose him, she resigned herself to him because he was the one who came back for her. There was no declaration on her part, no acceptance or confession of her feelings. Peeta deserved better. We readers earned better. To those of you reviewers who will scoff at my review, claiming that this book was perfect because it was \"realistic\", I say give me a break. This series was never meant to be a war documentary. It is a Young Adult Sceince Fiction book. This book contains mutant animals and insects for Christ's sake. In what reality other than \"make believe\" does a teenager fuel a rebellion? Millions of girls adore Justin Beiber but he isn't going to become the next president. We didn't wait on pins and needles for realism. That's not why readers devoured The Hunger Games. We fell in love because the plot grabbed a hold of our minds with an enthralling story filled with worthy engaging characters. Sadly, somewhere along the way, Collins lost track of the story she was telling and got off course by deciding to get preachy. I didn't want a victim for a heroine, I wanted a victor. After two rather epic books, I expected more, these characters were worthy of more. It\u2019s terrible what was done to them and to us for having to read it. While reading MockingJay I felt like Katniss, a pawn. ...more these are the things i have done for this book: i have given up my birthday, waiting in line from 5 until its midnight release, braving the crowds and noise and commotion... i have missed my subway stop and ended up taking the crappy way into work... i have seriously considered calling out of work to sit at home and finish it... i have read in elevators, while walking down the street, walking up the stairs, while eating dinner without even tasting it... i have rushed my beloved dawn powell's book, ra these are the things i have done for this book: i have given up my birthday, waiting in line from 5 until its midnight release, braving the crowds and noise and commotion... i have missed my subway stop and ended up taking the crappy way into work... i have seriously considered calling out of work to sit at home and finish it... i have read in elevators, while walking down the street, walking up the stairs, while eating dinner without even tasting it... i have rushed my beloved dawn powell's book, racing through it so i could get to this book as quickly as possible... i have come home to a laundry bag full of clothing that needed to be folded and a bunch of dishes that needed to be done - ignoring which usually gives me mental discomfort... but i did... i have thrown off my netflix schedule for the week... i have read this book in one day, and now i am wanting more... ********************************************************************************* i just realized that this book comes out the day after my birthday. which means i will then be 33, and will have waited in anticipation for a TEEN FICTION book for almost a year. and i will probably read it in a day, and afterward feel utterly shattered with lacking . and then i can go be a grown-up again. but for now, i can't help it, it's that good of a series, and i have given up any adult-shame i might have felt for bouncing up and down in my skin with wanting this book this very minute. 32 and still a child... ...more Below is my original review. I'm leaving it as it's still essentially how I feel still. I have however decided that the overall story of the book rates a higher rating than I originally gave (you'll see below). The biggest problem for me was that Katniss seemed to grow some throughout the first and the second book, yet slid back and forth/up and down throughout this. I just didn't think it was still Katniss in some ways. To each of course and I'd say try it yourself and see how you feel/what you Below is my original review. I'm leaving it as it's still essentially how I feel still. I have however decided that the overall story of the book rates a higher rating than I originally gave (you'll see below). The biggest problem for me was that Katniss seemed to grow some throughout the first and the second book, yet slid back and forth/up and down throughout this. I just didn't think it was still Katniss in some ways. To each of course and I'd say try it yourself and see how you feel/what you think. Some spoilers in review as I do discuss some things about the conclusion of the book. ***************** Spoilers in Review below ******************* (view spoiler) [ Okay, just us now...a lot of people loved this book. I'm not one of them. I liked the first book immensely, I also liked the second volume. I appreciate the inspiration behind the books. I considered 3 stars here, as there are times when some very good writing comes through. But in the end for me to say I really didn't like the book wouldn't fit with a 3 star rating. There were too many times I skimmed through this one, too many times I came very close to abandoning the read all together simply due to the story and it's telling. If you read my review of the second volume in this trilogy you know that one of the things that bothered me most was the immature and selfish character of Katniss. I observed at the close of that volume that this had probably been intentional on Ms.Collins' part and that Katniss seemed to be growing out of it after the hard and troubling events at the end of said volume. Well, Katniss had a relapse...big-time. Apparently in all the wars and all the revolutions and all the tragedies of all time NO ONE has suffered as she has. Am I the only one who got so tired of her constant bemoaning of her own fate...as the world is flying apart around her? She forces the rebels to take her back to her blasted and burned former home where she apparently wanders around saying things like \"I brought this on you\"... GOOD GRIEF. No Katniss, the people who dropped the bombs brought it on them...the people who ordered it brought it on...the people who have been forcing children to kill each other in arenas to hold the entire populace under their heel FOR GENERATIONS brought it on. The world didn't start when you were born Katniss. The book becomes, it seems to me very much of a one trick pony with Katniss constantly discovering more pain and more woe. It turns into a story where the rebels seem often to be as bad as the oppressive government they seek to overthrow. A book that comes very close to one of those pompous tomes (and for that matter movies, short stories etc.) that defined itself as \"anti-war\" as if people sometimes get together and say, \"hey, let's have a war.\" War is nothing more than an assault or an armed robbery writ large. Very few actually \"want war\" it doesn't make one extra righteous to say \"I'm taking a stand against war!\", just self-righteous. The choice in the story Ms. Collins wrote is the same as it has been often...war or enslavement. You can accept what your handed and live with it, let them take your goods... your children, or you can resist. The longer you wait to resist the worse it may be. Thus the 1 star rating. It seems to me Katniss is an annoying character who (I think) became badly one dimensional. There are a few bright spots and some good prose, but over all, I'm not taken with the book. For me one of the most telling moment in the book was in a conversation between Gale and Peeta (the boy named after pocket bread) when they are having a conversation about which of them Katniss will eventually \"choose\" and Gale hits it on the head. He says she'll pick the one She can't survive without. Of course from Katniss we get the obligatory self recrimination, \"am I that bad\", well I don't need either of them, internal monologue..but (when proverbial push comes to proverbial shove) that is exactly what she eventually does. In the end so far as I can tell after all that's happened, after all the death and loss the world still revolves around Katniss at least so far as Katniss is concerned. (hide spoiler) ] I found this an unsatisfying book and conclusion to what had been up to now a pretty good trilogy and if my children were still young I'd definitely discuss this one with them to see what they took away from it. Not my cup of tea, and puts my retention of the other two in my collection in question...I regret the money spent on this book and the time invested in it, a bad sign. The first book is a very good read, the second is pretty good, but this, the end volume is very, very weak. My opinion of course. Update: Sadly this volume ruined the entire set for me. I sold all 3. ...more I guess, sometimes our emotional bones need to be re-broken in order to set them right. Maybe this was a common experience for those who read this book, but a lot of its most emotional points were like reading a bizarre dream about the last few years of my own life. I\u2019m not going to go into it because that would be, like, an unacceptable amount of over-share, even for me. That\u2019s just to say that I have no ability to be objective about it. This story: real or not real? I love Mockingjay like I lov I guess, sometimes our emotional bones need to be re-broken in order to set them right. Maybe this was a common experience for those who read this book, but a lot of its most emotional points were like reading a bizarre dream about the last few years of my own life. I\u2019m not going to go into it because that would be, like, an unacceptable amount of over-share, even for me. That\u2019s just to say that I have no ability to be objective about it. This story: real or not real? I love Mockingjay like I love The Prophet and Catcher in the Rye , and of course anything by Willa Cather and Dostoevsky . They\u2019re all books that have at one time or another spoken to me on such a personal and emotional level that they mean something more than writing or storytelling. That is only a personal reaction, not a recommendation. Actually, it makes me not want anyone else to read the book ever. I want to keep it as my own because I don\u2019t want to hear a bunch of fools say they think the names are funny or something like that. There are many threads of meaning and themes you could take from this story, but the one that strikes me as profound right now, a few days removed from my reading, is, why are we so goddamn powerless? Is it apathy or, maybe, discouragement? Are we powerless against other people or government systems, or are people and systems only symbols of our general powerlessness against the universe? Throughout this book, there is a steady rhythm of characters reminding Katniss of her power and describing her power to her. I did some research recently about fundamental attribution error , and I've probably already told you about it, but I'm going to again. Basically, the theory of fundamental attribution error says that we think that we make our own life choices because we are tossed in the wind and the crazy, random happenstance of outside forces makes us who we are. But we think other people make the choices they do because of natural inclination. Like, someone who murders might think she did so because of an unplanned series of unfortunate events, but an observer thinks the killer did so because she is naturally a murderer. This story creates an interesting contrast between the way Katniss sees herself and the way others see her. She only sees the random events that lead her to become the symbol of rebellion against tyrrany. Others see her as the natural embodiment of the symbol. And I think this says a lot about all of us and the things we choose to do or to ignore. I think Collins would say we are powerless because we have abandoned our power, or perhaps because we don't remind each other that we have power. There are some beautiful moments in other stories, like The House of Flying Daggers and Hamlet , where the tragedy of the conflict culminates in good friends battling each other. Nominally, they fight out of some shallow sense of vengeance, but ultimately I think it\u2019s more the total injustice of loss that motivates them. I think they fight because if you can fight you are still alive, and sometimes that\u2019s all that\u2019s left. Maybe what Dylan Thomas meant when he said, \"Do not go gentle into that good night / Rage, rage against the dying of the light.\" There are a lot of moments in this book that make me think of that image of friends fighting each other, but really fighting something more abstract and unconquerable. We fight, maybe, as some kind of animal scream in the face of the cold universe. But, Collins also shows how we fight because of the warm arms and kind hearts of the people we love. We fight because we are wrong and evil and stupid and cunning and loving and compassionate and fierce. There\u2019s no simple answer. Reading the other books in this series, I identified on a personal level with the political and cultural commentary. The way Collins held up a mirror to my own apathy and opulence was a slap in the face. This book meant so much to me emotionally and personally that I hate to pretend that my reaction is political at all. This book, to me, was the story of what happens when suddenly the person you trusted the most in the world sees everything you do as evil. I don't think I've ever seen someone write about that, and I was totally unprepared for the experience of reading it. Do you become evil because you've lost that person? Does their definition of you become your own? Do you sacrifice everything to repair the relationship? If they don't know what's real, how do you? It was so beautiful and tragic to watch that in this book, and it resonated on such a personal level with me, that after reading it I had to rebuild a lot of how I see myself. On the other hand, I feel like it is important to acknowledge the cultural/political side of this story, and that, while this series is stylized, it is not much of a step away from reality. It, like all of Collins\u2019 writing that I have read so far, is about adults training children to kill children. And that\u2019s what we do, right? In Africa, the Middle East, Russia, America, in uniform and out of uniform, we train children to kill children. I\u2019m sure you\u2019ve all already seen the wikileak about the American soldiers shooting the Reuters photographers and later wounding children who were riding in the ambulance coming to help the photographers. If you haven\u2019t seen it yet, the linked article also links to the video. One of the most disturbing things to me about that video is how the soldiers laugh. Real or not real? I couldn\u2019t watch the whole thing. When people get in fights on the listserv at school, we call it a \u201cflame war.\u201d Do we call it that here on GR? Anyway, a student posted that video to the listserv last spring, asking, if that video is something that we now know about, how many other incidents like this have happened and not been released to the public? That post started an outrageous flame war on the listserv, in which a couple of the military guys threatened the poster. People who I generally respect and even look up to in some ways said things like, \"This is your final warning!\" and argued that it is unacceptable to question people in uniform because without their sacrifices, we wouldn\u2019t have the freedom to question them. Even aside from the circular logic, that argument just makes me go ballistic. And I think that is exactly the labyrinth of war that Collins writes about. Everything she did here is beautiful, even, at times, poetic. I love that she didn\u2019t glorify the rebels, and I love the image of communism she gives as much as her version of capitalism. It makes sense that she published this story in three parts, but I think it could also be read as one whole. I love her characters and her thoughtful messages. I love the way her relationships fall apart and grow back together. I almost had to stop reading this book partway through because it was too painful. But I think it was a stern talking-to that I needed. This story real or not real? For me, real. ...more All Katniss really wants is to not be \"a piece in their games\". But nobody apparently got the memo. Once again, she is a pawn in somebody's power games. Same shit, different day. Only the Gamemakers have changed. The above are synonymous in the eyes of the Capitol. Or District 13, for that matter. Even free from the clutches of the Capitol, Katniss still has a role to play - whether she wants it or not. This time it's Mockingjay, the face of the rebellion she unwittingly helped to bring. But the p All Katniss really wants is to not be \"a piece in their games\". But nobody apparently got the memo. Once again, she is a pawn in somebody's power games. Same shit, different day. Only the Gamemakers have changed. The above are synonymous in the eyes of the Capitol. Or District 13, for that matter. Even free from the clutches of the Capitol, Katniss still has a role to play - whether she wants it or not. This time it's Mockingjay, the face of the rebellion she unwittingly helped to bring. But the puppeteers now are the supposedly good guys - District 13. They rescued her and now have plans for her. Unfortunately, nobody asked Katniss whether SHE wanted to be steered and manipulated without her knowledge into ending up exactly where they needed her for the benefit of their cause. The makeovers, speeches, and roles to play are all waiting for the girl who is supposed to be their Mockingjay. Sounds eerily Capitol-like, right? If you expected a story where Katniss is the leader of the rebellion and kicks Capitol's ass, you will be gravely disappointed. This is NOT a story of war and revenge and justice. Instead, it is a story about suffering and pain of a young woman devastated and broken by horrendous things that have happened to her. It is quite PAINFUL and traumatic to read. Which is the entire point. ------------------------------------------------------------------------- <---C>Katniss Everdeen</---C> is a badass, no argument here. She was \"the girl on fire\", after all. But she is not a fiery revolutionary destined to lead the rebellion. She never wanted to change the world. She did all her wonderful, brilliant, and brave acts of defiance out of the drive to help her loved ones survive and out of pure human compassion which is plentiful under her seemingly gruff and cynical exterior. She just wanted peace and safety. She is not a fighter - she is the ultimate survivor. \"I guess there isn't a rule book for what might be acceptable to do to another human being.\" Badass or not, Katniss does not possess the conviction of every successful revolutionary - that the end justifies the means (the end being a better and brighter future. \"But that kind of thinking... you could turn it into an argument for killing anyone at any time. You could justify sending kids into the Hunger Games to prevent the districts from getting out of line.\" SING IT, KATNISS, YOU AWESOME BRAVE HONEST GIRL. Therefore you'd be better off leaving changing the world and leading the uprisings to the 'real' rebels and visionaries. Like Gale, who also designed a deadly trapped exploiting human compassion. Like Coin, who successfully led her District to overturn Snow-led Capitol. You see, in order to be a successful leader, you need to be ruthless, to be willing to overlook small casualties and sacrifices for the sake of a bigger picture, the greater good. Katniss can't. She is too human for that. And that's why I love her. And that's why she is always a threat to everyone's plans. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- My favorite - because it's the most believable - thing about Katniss is that she is not invincible. Unlike many characters in other books, she does not bounce back quickly from extremely traumatic effects; she is terribly affected by them instead. \"It takes ten times as long to put yourself back together as it does to fall apart.\" Katniss has been through more than most people can imagine. She experienced the worst nightmare of the world of Panem - the Hunger Games - twice. She was used and manipulated, sustaining mental and physical injuries. She blames herself for the deaths of thousands of her friends and neighbors. And she has almost nobody to rely on. Peeta was taken away from her. Even her best friend Gale is further than she can reach - in his dream world of the uprising, basking in the satisfaction of doing what he always wanted. And eventually whatever's left of Katniss' innocence gets completely shattered by (view spoiler) [Prim's death murder (hide spoiler) ] and realizing how she - and the rest of the country - been ultimately manipulated. And from all that comes her ultimate act of defiance - after all, what did you expect from a girl whose defiance was what started the whole thing? ------------------------------------------------------------------------- And as for what occupied the minds of many a teenager reading this book - who will Katniss ultimately end up with, Gale or Peeta? Well, was it even a choice, really? It's not about these two boys, but - as very explicitly stated - about what they represent. Some, I know, were disappointed that she 'settles' for (to Katniss' own dismay) \"whoever she thinks she can't survive without\". Well, DUH. She is the ultimate survivor. And support, peace, understanding and trust are the founding blocks of any partnership. It's not all about the spark that kindles the fire, you know. It's about what makes it possible for you to keep going. Peeta knows what it's like to be used and broken, while Gale never did. She's had enough fire and hatred for a lifetime. That's all, folks. \"What I need to survive is not Gale's fire, kindled with rage and hatred. I have plenty of fire myself. What I need is the dandelion in the spring. The bright yellow that means rebirth instead of destruction. The promise that life can go on, no matter how bad our losses. That it can be good again.\" Another sad - and realistic - thing that I love in this book is that there is no happy ending . Katniss survives, but it comes at a price. She remains haunted by the past, even twenty years later. She never completely recovers, and my heart breaks for her. \"I'll tell them how I survive it. I'll tell them that on bad mornings, it feels impossible to take pleasure in things because I'm afraid it could be taken away. That's when I make a list in my head of every act of goodness I've seen someone do. It's like a game. Repetitive. Even a little tedious after more than twenty years. But there are much worse games to play.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------- This is a bleak and painful book about the consequences of war and manipulation, and about the mental devastation that comes with it. It is my favorite book of this series, and I love it. 4 stars. Despite a slight PTSD it gave me. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more This review is supposed to be hidden by the spoiler alert, but everyone is yelling at me telling me I spoiled the whole story so idk I'm really confused and I've checked that the review is hidden like 3 times and I do have it checked to \"hide entire review because of spoilers\" so I'm just putting this here, honestly this is probably the least spoiling review...if that makes sense. Sorry to anyone who's enjoyment of the book was ruined, just go find other reviews to read, nobody's perfect. Also I This review is supposed to be hidden by the spoiler alert, but everyone is yelling at me telling me I spoiled the whole story so idk I'm really confused and I've checked that the review is hidden like 3 times and I do have it checked to \"hide entire review because of spoilers\" so I'm just putting this here, honestly this is probably the least spoiling review...if that makes sense. Sorry to anyone who's enjoyment of the book was ruined, just go find other reviews to read, nobody's perfect. Also I changed some parts because, again, the review should be hidden but...yeah Parts I change are lower case in the middle of the caps, it should be pretty obvious *I hope I changed all the parts that people were upset about with spoilers and just let me know is anything else is a spoiler. OMG I CANNOT BELIEVE all those people DIE!!!!!!!!! AND the end with gale/petta thing AND Katniss DOESN'T EVEN CARE what happened?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?! I MEAN AT FIRST I WAS A TOTAL TEAM GALE BUT THEN I WAS LIKE WELL PEETA IS OKISH I GUESS MAYBE BUT AS LONG AS GALE STILL HAS THAT SPECIAL BOND AND HES HER BEST FRIEND AND HES THE ONE SHE CONFIDES IN AND STUFF AND SHE LOVES HIM AS A FRIEND THAN OK FIND GO MARRY PEETA!!!!!!!!!!!!!! AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! CANNOT BELIEVE THAT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I AND DID SC HAVE TO KILL ALL THOSE PPL????? AND WHAT HAPPENS TO HAYMITCH? I WISH THEY HAD MORE OF HAYMITCH'S HUMOR THIS BOOK NEEDED MORE HUMOR, MORE HAYMITCH THE BOOK WAS STILL REALLY GOOD AND I REALLY LIKED THE PARTS WITH PREZ COIN AND PREZ SNOW AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! THE BOOK WAS DEFINITELY NOT THE BEST I'D SAY THE SERIES BOOKS GO LIKE THIS gale might as well have died i also wanted more finnick and annie 1.)Catching Fire 2.)The Hunger Games 3.)Mockingjay if u read this sorry about all the caps UPDATE ok so first yeah sorry again for my caps lock but I don't think I should change it as it reminds me how strong my feelings were then I guess so i don't hate Peeta now. But yeah no favoritism here haha So Katniss as a mother was... strange, weird, it felt wrong the whole voice and feel of the ending where katniss is talking and says \"the girl knows\" it just felt awkward with Katniss as a mom and since it was 1st person she also sounded so disconnected (as Hannah commented below Katniss sounded lifeless and I agree) like she didnt even bother to call her kids by their names just \"the girl\" I still need 2 get used to it and wow i said like a lot ...more \"THERE IS NO DISTRICT 12.\" Period. End of sentence. End of story. Biggest. Cliffhanger. Ever. Oh. my. gosh. I CANNOT WAIT!!! August 24... Someone could tell me the world was ending August 23rd and i'd say, no it isn't! Mockingjay isn't out yet, stupid! The world can't end! What about August 25th? Hah! well i'll have red it by then, so im good. Was it just me or did everyone else frantically flip the pages after finishing Catching Fire? I was like, NOOOO! That cannot be how she ended it! DANG that wa \"THERE IS NO DISTRICT 12.\" Period. End of sentence. End of story. Biggest. Cliffhanger. Ever. Oh. my. gosh. I CANNOT WAIT!!! August 24... Someone could tell me the world was ending August 23rd and i'd say, no it isn't! Mockingjay isn't out yet, stupid! The world can't end! What about August 25th? Hah! well i'll have red it by then, so im good. Was it just me or did everyone else frantically flip the pages after finishing Catching Fire? I was like, NOOOO! That cannot be how she ended it! DANG that was the best book ever! omygoshomygoshomygosh! Theres got to be more! *rubbed eyes and stared at the last sentence before going completely rabid* I hate to admit that i threw the book at the wall and then apologized to it. This is what i think is gunna happen... They're not going to the arena again. Don't worry. Im, like, 99% positive on this one. There's a full scale rebellion and im pretty sure the whole book will be about that. Of course Katniss will be leading it. I think she's going to finally step up to the plate and bring the capital down... and maybe she finally does assume roll as leader because someone she loves is being held hostage... aka Peeta. or her family... or maybe she'll be a martyr to the cause, and is about to be killed when Gale jumps in front of her and takes the punishment... NO!!! Gale can't die! Stupid, reckless, sexy Gale! Dont die on me! omygod. Gales gunna die!... maybe... And of course she's gonna have to choose a guy. And I think Madge likes Gale and I think they're gunna end up together (if he doesn't die) and Peeta and Katniss will too. And I bet something bad's gunnna happen to either Katniss or Gales family, someone's gunna die (obviously), and someone's gunna get held captive and they're gunna have to break into the capital and rescue them... maybe madge'll die... and of COURSE there's gunna be District 13 with their bombs or whatever. Wait! Wait! I've got it! So Peeta's being held captive (i think they might be doing scientific experimentation on humans) and Katniss goes to rescue him -and tells Gale to get her family to the safety of District 13- well Gale doesn't listen and gives Haymitch or someone else the job while he goes to the capital also without Katniss' knowledge. A couple differnet scenarios at this point. 1) Katniss has to choose between her life or Peetas life and of course she chooses to let Peeta live -very much against his will- and right before she dies in comes Gale and takes the metaphorical bullet (he dies. :C *sniffle*). In which case Katniss and Peeta will try to overthrow the capital and kill Snow --Oooooh! With the help of the army that Gale brought! Oooooh! Yeah! OR 2) Gale gets captured along with Peeta and Pres Snow and his sadistic little creepy self makes Katniss pick between Gale and Peeta because he knows how impossible the choice will be for her. Maybe he knows he can get something very good out of a deal with her: they both get to live at the cost of something else... I dont know what. Then in comes the army I talked about earlier. Many people would die in that fight. OR... maybe they do go into the arena after all. I dont think so, but maybe Snow drops all of Katniss's 'people' into the arena: kats family, gales family, peeta, haymitch, madge, etc. Maybe he had this twisted plan -- They're all so loyal to katniss that they'll kill themselves for her cause -- that would cause katniss an impossible amount of pain. Katniss would think it was all her fault -- would she sacrifice herself? Hmm... Something else I don't think anyone's thought alot about: President Snow is a vampire?! C'mon, now! The mine explosion was SUCH a cover-up. Not even funny. I'm pretty sure there's gunna be something about Katniss('?/'s?/s'?) dad. Yep. There's gunna be something. So what twists do you predict? Me? Maybe she'll be pregnant. But that was kinda already used. And she did say she was never gunna have a kid... I don't think anybody's gunna be able to predict these twists though. Collins was just so fantastic at making me go OMYGOSH! in the last 2 books. i was like WOAH! I didn't see that coming! and i wanted to talk to someone about it so bad, but no one had read the books so... lol *odd note: Pita is a type of bread (middle-eastern). Lol. Pronounced the same way as Peeta. Collins has a sense of humor! I'm pretty sure this will be fast-paced and suspenseful, but maybe Collins will take a differnet approach. Maybe it'll be a bit quieter. Maybe they'll change their identities to get into the capital and be spy-like. But that just wouldn't work too well, don't you think? Maybe Mockingjay won't be written from Katniss's POV.. but.. hmm. I don't know how well that would work either. Yep. I tink I'm going to stick to my earlier guess. Fast-paced and suspenceful. Twists that will leave you on the edge of your seat. You won't be able to put it down. And just when you thought there coudn't be any more surprises... ... BAM! Guess what? It's gunna be made into a movie! Yay! Aren't you excited?! Wouldn't that be awesome? HECK NO! DANGIT if this is made into a movie i will die. dieeeeeee. I do NOT want another TWILIGHT episode, okay? Cause if i ever get sick about hearing about The Hunger Games, i will die. dieeeeeee. Cause everywhere is TWILIGHT TWILIGHT TWILIGHT and i really love the books, but the publicity is killing me. Seriously. Well anyways... sorry for wasting, like, 30 minutes of your life. This has got to be not just the longest review of a book thats not even out yet EVER, its probably the longest review of any book, period. This is gunna be SOO gooodd!!!!!!!!! AS OF MONDAY, JUNE 14, 2010 THERE ARE 71 MORE DAYS UNTIL MOCKINGJAY IS RELEASED. :D!!! ***update: im gunna die! dieeeeeee!!! ... its being made into a movie. im just glad i already got the voiolent shock out before posting this, cuz i went a little bit cuckoo... O.o WTFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF??????????????????!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! **spazzing out** okay. im done. 70 days!!! ~Here it is, Saturday, July 31, 2:07 PM 24 days, 9 hours, 53 mins until MOCKINGJAY comes out!!! :DDD ...more \u0623\u0647\u0644\u0627 \u0628\u0643 \u0641\u064a \u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0623\u0647\u0645 \u0645\u0644\u062d\u0645\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u062f\u064a\u0633\u062a\u0648\u0628\u064a\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0635\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u062f\u064a\u062b \"Are you, are you Coming to the tree Where they strung up a man they say murdered three. Strange things did happen here No stranger would it be If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree.\u201d \"\u0647\u0644 \u062a\u0623\u062a\u064a ,\u0647\u0644 \u062a\u0623\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062c\u0631\u0629 \u062d\u064a\u062b \u0639\u0644\u0642\u0648\u0627 \u0645\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0631\u062c\u0644\u0627 \u064a\u0642\u0627\u0644 \u0623\u0646\u0647 \u0642\u062a\u0644 \u062b\u0644\u0627\u062b\u0629 \u0623\u0634\u064a\u0627\u0621 \u063a\u0631\u064a\u0628\u0629 \u062d\u062f\u062b\u062a \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0644\u0646 \u064a\u062d\u062f\u062b \u0627\u0644\u0623\u063a\u0631\u0628 \u0641\u064a \u062d\u0627\u0644 \u062a\u0642\u0627\u0628\u0644\u0646\u0627 \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0628\u0645\u0646\u062a\u0635\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u0644\u064a\u0644, \u0639\u0646\u062f \u0645\u0634\u0646\u0642\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062c\u0631\u0629\" \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0628\u0643\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u064a\u0631\u0627\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0639\u0636 \u062e\u0637\u0631\u0627 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0628\u0639\u0636 \u0627\u0646\u0638\u0645\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0643\u0645 \u0623\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u062b\u0648\u0631\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639\u064a\u0629 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0646\u0638\u0627\u0645 \u0641\u0627\u0633\u062f \u062f\u064a\u0643\u062a\u0627\u062a\u0648\u0631\u064a ,\u064a\u0645\u062a\u0635 \u062c\u0647\u062f \u0623\u0647\u0644\u0627 \u0628\u0643 \u0641\u064a \u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0623\u0647\u0645 \u0645\u0644\u062d\u0645\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u062f\u064a\u0633\u062a\u0648\u0628\u064a\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0635\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u062f\u064a\u062b \"Are you, are you Coming to the tree Where they strung up a man they say murdered three. Strange things did happen here No stranger would it be If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree.\u201d \"\u0647\u0644 \u062a\u0623\u062a\u064a ,\u0647\u0644 \u062a\u0623\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062c\u0631\u0629 \u062d\u064a\u062b \u0639\u0644\u0642\u0648\u0627 \u0645\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0631\u062c\u0644\u0627 \u064a\u0642\u0627\u0644 \u0623\u0646\u0647 \u0642\u062a\u0644 \u062b\u0644\u0627\u062b\u0629 \u0623\u0634\u064a\u0627\u0621 \u063a\u0631\u064a\u0628\u0629 \u062d\u062f\u062b\u062a \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0644\u0646 \u064a\u062d\u062f\u062b \u0627\u0644\u0623\u063a\u0631\u0628 \u0641\u064a \u062d\u0627\u0644 \u062a\u0642\u0627\u0628\u0644\u0646\u0627 \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0628\u0645\u0646\u062a\u0635\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u0644\u064a\u0644, \u0639\u0646\u062f \u0645\u0634\u0646\u0642\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062c\u0631\u0629\" \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0628\u0643\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u064a\u0631\u0627\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0639\u0636 \u062e\u0637\u0631\u0627 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0628\u0639\u0636 \u0627\u0646\u0638\u0645\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0643\u0645 \u0623\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u062b\u0648\u0631\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639\u064a\u0629 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0646\u0638\u0627\u0645 \u0641\u0627\u0633\u062f \u062f\u064a\u0643\u062a\u0627\u062a\u0648\u0631\u064a ,\u064a\u0645\u062a\u0635 \u062c\u0647\u062f \u0634\u0639\u0628\u0647 \u0645\u0646 \u0623\u062c\u0644 \u0645\u0635\u0644\u062d\u0629 \u0648\u0631\u062e\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0642\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062b\u0631\u064a\u0627\u0621,\u0627\u0644\u0637\u0628\u0642\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0644\u064a\u0627 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0631\u0626\u064a\u0633 \u0648\u062d\u0627\u0634\u064a\u062a\u0647 \u062b\u0648\u0627\u0631 \u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u064a\u0648\u0646 \u064a\u0631\u064a\u062f\u0648\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u062f\u0644, \u0623\u0648 \u064a\u0631\u064a\u062f\u0648\u0646 \u0641\u0642\u0637 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u064a\u0627\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0631\u064a\u0645\u0629...\u064a\u0631\u064a\u062f\u0648\u0646 \u062d\u0640\u0640\u064a\u0627\u0629 \u062d\u0631\u0629 \u0641\u062d\u0633\u0628 \u0648\u0646\u0648\u0639 \u0623\u062e\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0648\u0627\u0631, \u064a\u0631\u064a\u062f\u0648\u0646 \u0642\u0635\u0627\u0635\u0627 \u062f\u0645\u0648\u064a\u0627 \u0641\u062d\u0633\u0628, \u0644\u0627 \u064a\u0642\u0644\u0648\u0646 \u062f\u064a\u0643\u062a\u0627\u062a\u0648\u0631\u064a\u0629 \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0638\u0627\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u0627\u0633\u062f \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0627\u0644\u064a...\u0642\u062f \u064a\u0635\u0644 \u0628\u0647\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0645\u0631 \u0644\u0642\u062a\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0628\u0631\u064a\u0627\u0621 \u0641\u0642\u0637 \u0644\u0623\u0633\u0642\u0627\u0637 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0638\u0627\u0645 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0648\u0635\u0648\u0644 \u0644\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0637\u0629 \u0645\u0643\u0627\u0646\u0647 \u0648\u0628\u064a\u0646 \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0648\u0647\u0630\u0627 ,\u0646\u0648\u0639 \u0641\u0631\u064a\u062f \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0648\u0627\u0631...\u0643\u0627\u062a\u0646\u064a\u0633 \u0623\u064a\u0641\u064a\u0631\u062f\u064a\u0646 \u0648\u0647\u064a \u0627\u0639\u062a\u0628\u0631\u0647\u0627 \u0623\u0642\u0648\u064a \u0645\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0644\u0627\u062b\u064a\u0629..\u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u0631\u064a\u062f\u0629 \u0648\u0636\u0639\u062a \u0641\u064a \u062f\u064a\u0633\u062a\u0648\u0628\u064a\u0627 \u0623\u0648\u0631\u0648\u064a\u0644\u064a\u0629..\u062a\u0643\u0627\u062f \u062a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639\u064a\u0629 \u0643\u0640 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0627\u0646\u064a \u0633\u062a\u062c\u062f \u0646\u0641\u0633\u0643 \u0627\u0645\u0627\u0645 \u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u062a\u062a\u0634\u0627\u0628\u0647 \u0645\u0639 \u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639\u0646\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0628\u064a\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0631\u0628\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0632\u0639\u0648\u0645 \u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u062b\u0648\u0631\u064a\u0629 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0646\u0638\u0627\u0645 \u0641\u0627\u0633\u062f \u062f\u064a\u0643\u062a\u0627\u062a\u0648\u0631\u064a \u0628\u062e\u062f\u0627\u0639\u0647 \u0648\u062a\u0639\u0630\u064a\u0628\u0647 \u0648\u0642\u0645\u0639\u0647, \u0648\u0646\u062c\u062d\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0624\u0644\u0641\u0647 \u0641\u064a \u0623\u0636\u0627\u0641\u0629 \u0645\u0648\u0627\u0642\u0641 \u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631\u0629 \u062e\u0644\u0627\u0644 \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u062a\u0648\u0636\u062d \u0641\u0633\u0627\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0638\u0627\u0645 -\u062d\u062a\u064a \u0641\u0633\u0627\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0633\u062a\u063a\u0644\u0627\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0646\u0633\u064a \u0644\u0644\u0645\u0634\u0627\u0647\u064a\u0631 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u062a\u062a\u0634\u0627\u0628\u0647\u0647 \u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631\u0627 \u0645\u0639 \u0645\u0645\u0627\u0631\u0633\u0627\u062a \u062d\u062f\u062b\u062a \u0641\u064a \u0645\u0635\u0631 \u0645\u0646\u0630 \u0627\u0648\u0627\u062e\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u062a\u064a\u0646\u0627\u062a \u0639\u0644\u064a \u064a\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0645\u062e\u0627\u0628\u0631\u0627\u062a \u0648\u062d\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0633\u0639\u064a\u0646\u0627\u062a -\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0647\u0645 \u0623\u0646 \u0643\u0644 \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0628\u062f\u0648\u0646 \u062d\u0634\u0648 \u0648\u0627\u064a\u062d\u0627\u0621\u0627\u062a \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0641\u0627\u0638 \u0628\u0630\u064a\u0626\u0647 \u0643\u0639\u0627\u062f\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u0628\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0631\u0628- \u0628\u0644 \u0648\u0645\u0641\u0627\u062c\u0623\u0629 \u063a\u0631\u064a\u0628\u0629 \u0633\u062a\u062c\u062f \u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u062a\u062a\u0634\u0627\u0628\u0647\u0647 \u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631\u0627 \u0645\u0639 \"\u0645\u0648\u0642\u0639\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0645\u0644\" \u0641\u064a \u0645\u0635\u0631 \u0627\u0648 \u062d\u062a\u064a \u0636\u0631\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0637\u0641\u0627\u0644 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0643\u064a\u0645\u0627\u0648\u064a \u0641\u064a \u0633\u0648\u0631\u064a\u0627 \u0648\u0644\u0646 \u064a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0647\u0646\u0627\u0643 \u062a\u0623\u0643\u064a\u062f \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0645\u0646 \u0642\u0627\u0645 \u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0648\u0627\u0636\u062d \u0644\u0627\u0646\u0647 -\u062f\u0639\u0648\u0646\u0627 \u0646\u062a\u062d\u062f\u062b \u0628\u0635\u0631\u0627\u062d\u0629- \u0644\u0627 \u064a\u0648\u062c\u062f \u0634\u0626 \u0645\u0624\u0643\u062f \u0641\u064a \u0644\u0639\u0628\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0635\u0631\u0627\u0639 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0631\u0648\u0634 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0643\u0631\u0627\u0633\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0630\u0631\u0629 \u0648\u0644\u0639\u0628\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u064a\u0627\u0633\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u062c\u0633\u0629...\u0641\u0643\u0645\u0627 \u0642\u0644\u062a \u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0647\u0646\u0627\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0639\u0636 \u0645\u0633\u062a\u0639\u062f\u0627 \u0644\u0644\u062a\u0636\u062d\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0630\u0631\u0629 \u0628\u0628\u0639\u0636 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0628\u0631\u064a\u0627\u0621 \u0641\u064a \u0633\u0628\u064a\u0644 \u0623\u0633\u0642\u0627\u0637 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0638\u0627\u0645, \u0648\u0623\u0639\u062a\u0644\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0637\u0629 \u062d\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0646 \u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u064a\u0624\u062f\u064a \u0644\u0644\u062a\u0636\u062d\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u063a\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0629 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0623\u0628\u0631\u064a\u0627\u0621 -\u0648\u062c\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u064a\u0644\u0645 \u0645\u0628\u0627\u0634\u0631\u0627 \u0628\u0647\u0630\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0642\u0637\u0629 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0645\u0645\u062a\u0627\u0632- \u062d\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0626\u064a\u0633 \u064a\u062f\u0627\u0641\u0639 \u0639\u0646 \u0646\u0641\u0633\u0647 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0639\u062f \u0647\u0630\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0627\u0644\u062f\u0645\u0648\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0640 \"\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0643\u0646 \u0627\u0646\u062a\u0648\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0642\u0627\u0621 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0637\u0629 \u0648\u0643\u0646\u062a \u0627\u0646\u062a\u0648\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0646\u062d\u064a ,\u0648\u0623\u0646\u0627 \u0623\u062e\u0627\u0641 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0645\u0635\u0644\u062d\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u0639\u0628 \u0648\u062d\u064a\u0627\u062a\u0647\u0645\" \u0643\u0645\u0627 \u0633\u062a\u062c\u062f \u0647\u0646\u0627\u0643 \u062b\u0648\u0627\u0631 \u064a\u0637\u0627\u0644\u0628\u0648\u0646 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u062f\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u062c\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0646\u062a\u0641\u0627\u0645 \u0641\u062d\u0633\u0628 , \u064a\u0637\u0627\u0644\u0628\u0648\u0646 \u0628\u062f\u064a\u0643\u062a\u0627\u062a\u0648\u0631\u064a\u0629 \u0623\u062e\u0631\u064a, \u0648\u0627\u0630\u0627 \u0644\u0645 \u062a\u0648\u0627\u0641\u0642 \u0641\u0627\u0646\u062a \"\u062e\u0627\u0626\u0646 \u0648\u0639\u0645\u064a\u0644\" \u0648\u0627\u0639\u062a\u0642\u062f \u0627\u0646\u0647 \u0627\u0630\u0627 \u0643\u0627\u0646\u062a \"\u0641\u0644\u0648\u0644\" \u0644\u0647\u0627 \u062a\u0639\u0628\u064a\u0631 \u0627\u0646\u062c\u0644\u064a\u0632\u064a \u0644\u062a\u0645 \u0627\u0633\u062a\u062e\u062f\u0627\u0645\u0647 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u201cAre you, are you Coming to the tree Where the dead man called out for his love to flee. Strange things did happen here No stranger would it be If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree.\u201d \"\u0647\u0644 \u062a\u0623\u062a\u064a ,\u0647\u0644 \u062a\u0623\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062c\u0631\u0629 \u062d\u064a\u062b \u0646\u0627\u062f\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0631\u062c\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u064a\u062a \u062d\u0628\u064a\u0628\u062a\u0647 \u0644\u062a\u0647\u0631\u0628 \u0623\u0634\u064a\u0627\u0621 \u063a\u0631\u064a\u0628\u0629 \u062d\u062f\u062b\u062a \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0644\u0646 \u064a\u062d\u062f\u062b \u0627\u0644\u0623\u063a\u0631\u0628 \u0641\u064a \u062d\u0627\u0644 \u062a\u0642\u0627\u0628\u0644\u0646\u0627 \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0628\u0645\u0646\u062a\u0635\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u0644\u064a\u0644, \u0639\u0646\u062f \u0645\u0634\u0646\u0642\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062c\u0631\u0629\" \u0648\u0644\u0646\u062f\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0636\u0627\u0626\u0639,\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0642\u064a\u062a \u062c\u0627\u0646\u0628\u0627 \u0648\u0644\u0646\u0628\u062f\u0623 \u0628\u0640\u0640 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062d\u0640\u0640\u062f\u0627\u062b ****** \u062a\u0628\u062f\u0623 \u0628\u0639\u062f \u0645\u0631\u0648\u0631 \u0648\u0642\u062a \u0642\u0644\u064a\u0644 \u0645\u0646 \u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0627\u0646\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0647\u064a\u0628\u0629 \u0623\u0644\u0627 \u0623\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0644\u0645 \u062a\u0643\u0646 \u0628\u0646\u0641\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0631\u0639\u0629 \u0643\u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0627\u0628\u0642 \u0648\u0643\u0627\u0646\u062a \u0623\u0628\u0637\u0623 \u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631\u0627 \u0643\u0627\u062a\u0646\u064a\u0633 \u0628\u0639\u062f \u0645\u0639\u0631\u0641\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0628\u0645\u0627 \u062d\u062f\u062b \u0644\u0644\u0642\u0637\u0627\u0639 12, \u0648\u0627\u0646\u062a\u0642\u0627\u0644\u0647\u0627 \u0644\u062b\u0648\u0627\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0637\u0627\u0639 13 , \u064a\u062a\u0645 \u062a\u062f\u0631\u064a\u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0647\u0646\u0627\u0643 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0631\u063a\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u062d\u0627\u0644\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0641\u0633\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u064a\u0626\u0629 \u0644\u062a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0631\u0645\u0632\u0627 \u0644\u0644\u062b\u0648\u0631\u0629, \u0627\u0644\u0635\u0648\u0631\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062f\u0639\u0627\u0626\u064a\u0629 \u0644\u0647\u0627, \u0648\u062a\u0648\u0627\u0641\u0642 \u0644\u0623\u0645\u0631 \u0648\u0627\u062d\u062f...\u0641\u0647\u064a \u062a\u0631\u064a\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0639\u064a\u0634 \u0628\u062d\u0631\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0643\u0631\u0627\u0645\u0629... \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0644\u0627 \u064a\u0645\u0643\u0646 \u0623\u0646 \u064a\u062d\u062f\u062b \u0630\u0644\u0643 \u062f\u0648\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0636\u0627\u0621 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0626\u064a\u0633 \" \u0633\u0646\u0648\" \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0627\u062d\u0627\u0644 \u062d\u064a\u0627\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u064a \u062c\u062d\u064a\u0645 ,\u0648\u062f\u0645\u0631 \u062d\u064a\u0648\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0643\u062b\u0631 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0647\u0645 \u064a\u062c\u0628 \u0627\u0646\u0642\u0627\u0630 \"\u0628\u064a\u062a\u0627\" \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u064a\u062f\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0627\u0628\u064a\u062a\u0648\u0644 \u0643\u0645\u0627 \u0627\u0646\u062a\u0647\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0627\u0628\u0642\u0629..\u062b\u0645 \u0644\u062a\u0628\u062f\u0623 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0648\u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0647\u0648 \u0627\u0643\u0628\u0631 \u0639\u064a\u0648\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062e\u064a\u0631 .. \u0648\u062f\u0648\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062e\u0648\u0636 \u0641\u064a \u062a\u0641\u0627\u0635\u064a\u0644 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0623\u062e\u0635 \u0644\u0647\u0624\u0644\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0639\u062a\u0645\u062f\u064a\u0646 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0633\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0641\u0644\u0627\u0645 \u0644\u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u062a\u062f\u0648\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0648\u062c\u0647\u0647 \u0646\u0638\u0631 \u0643\u0627\u062a\u0646\u064a\u0633 \u0641\u062d\u0633\u0628, \u0628\u064a\u0646\u0645\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0627\u0644\u0647\u0627\u0645\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0628\u0646\u064a \u0639\u0644\u064a\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062e\u064a\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u062a\u062e\u0637\u064a\u0637 \u0644\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0635\u0631\u0627\u0639 \u0644\u0627 \u062a\u0633\u062a\u0644\u0632\u0645 \u0648\u062c\u0648\u062f\u0647\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0628\u062f\u0627\u064a\u0647, \u0627\u0648 \u0648\u0642\u0648\u0639\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u062f\u0627\u0626\u0645 \u0641\u064a \u0635\u062f\u0645\u0629 \u0645\u0646 \u062a\u0648\u0627\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0627\u0644\u0635\u0639\u0628\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0644\u0645 \u062a\u0643\u0646 \u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0627\u0628\u0642 \u0633\u0648\u064a \u0628\u062f\u0627\u064a\u0647 \u0644\u0647\u0627 \u064a\u062c\u0639\u0644\u0647\u0627 \u0644\u0627 \u062a\u062a\u0627\u0628\u0639 \u0643\u064a\u0641 \u064a\u062f\u0648\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0635\u0631\u0627\u0639 \u0641\u062c\u0627\u0626\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062c\u0632\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u062a\u0645\u0631 \u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u062b\u0646\u0627\u0621 \u062a\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0635\u062f\u0645\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0641\u0633\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0637\u064a\u0626\u0629 \u062c\u062f\u0627 ******************** \u0645\u0642\u0627\u0631\u0646\u0629 \u0644\u0627 \u0628\u062f \u0645\u0646\u0647\u0627 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Vs. Mockingjay ********************************************** Vs \u0634\u0639\u0631\u062a \u0637\u0648\u0627\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0628\u0627\u0646\u0646\u064a \u0627\u0645\u0627\u0645 \u0646\u0633\u062e\u0647 \u0627\u062e\u0631\u064a \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u062e\u0631 \u0627\u062c\u0632\u0627\u0621 \u0647\u0627\u0631\u064a \u0628\u0648\u062a\u0631, \u062d\u064a\u062b \u064a\u062a\u0634\u0627\u0628\u0647\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062b\u0646\u0627\u0646 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062e\u064a\u0637 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0633\u0627\u0633\u064a \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0638\u0644 \u062b\u0627\u0628\u062a \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062c\u0632\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0627\u0628\u0642\u0647 \u0644\u064a\u0646\u0642\u0644\u0628 \u0648\u064a\u062a\u063a\u064a\u0631 \u062a\u0645\u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u062c\u0632\u0621\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062e\u064a\u0631 -------------------------- \u0623\u0648\u0644\u0627: \u062a\u063a\u064a\u064a\u0631 \u062c\u0630\u0631\u064a \u0641\u064a \u062a\u0633\u0644\u0633\u0644 \u0648\u0623\u0645\u0627\u0643\u0646 \u0648\u0642\u0648\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0628\u064a\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062e\u064a\u0631 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0623\u062c\u0632\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0627\u0628\u0642\u0629 \u0647\u0627\u0631\u064a \u0628\u0648\u062a\u0631 \u0643\u0644 \u062c\u0632\u0621 \u064a\u0628\u062f\u0623 \u0628\u0627\u0646\u062a\u0647\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0635\u064a\u0641 \u062b\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u062f\u0631\u0633\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u064a\u0627\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u062f\u0631\u0627\u0633\u0629 \u0648 \u062d\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0645\u062a\u062d\u0627\u0646\u0627\u062a \u0645\u0627\u0639\u062f\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062e\u064a\u0631 \u0644\u0627 \u064a\u0648\u062c\u062f \u0645\u062f\u0631\u0633\u0629 \u0648\u0644\u0627 \u0627\u0645\u062a\u062d\u0627\u0646\u0627\u062a \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0628\u0639\u064a\u062f\u0629 \u062a\u0645\u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0639\u0646 \u0645\u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u062f\u0631\u0633\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0639\u062a\u062f\u0646\u0627\u0647\u0627 \u0637\u0648\u0627\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062c\u0632\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0627\u0628\u0642\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u062c\u0627\u0639\u0627\u062a \u062f\u0627\u0626\u0645\u0627 \u0647\u0646\u0627\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0635\u0627\u062f ,\u062b\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u062f\u0631\u064a\u0628 , \u062b\u0645 \u0633\u0627\u062d\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u062a\u0627\u0644.. \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062e\u064a\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0645\u0631 \u0627\u062e\u062a\u0644\u0641 \u062a\u0645\u0627\u0645\u0627, \u0644\u0627 \u062d\u0635\u0627\u062f, \u0627\u0644\u062a\u062f\u0631\u064a\u0628 \u0645\u062e\u062a\u0644\u0641 \u062a\u0645\u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0642\u062a\u0627\u0644 \u0641\u064a \u0634\u0648\u0627\u0631\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0635\u0645\u0629 \"\u0627\u0644\u0643\u0627\u0628\u064a\u062a\u0648\u0644\" \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0627\u0639\u062a\u0642\u062f \u0627\u0646\u0647 \u0645\u0646 \u0648\u062c\u0647\u0647 \u0646\u0638\u0631\u064a \u0627\u0643\u062b\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062c\u0632\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u063a\u064a\u0631 \u0645\u0642\u0646\u0639\u0647 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0646\u0633\u0628\u0647 \u0644\u064a, \u0641\u0648\u0635\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0643\u0634\u0646 \u0628\u0647 \u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0635\u0639\u0628\u0627 \u062c\u062f\u0627 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0623\u062e\u0635 \u0641\u064a \u0648\u0635\u0641 \u0643\u064a\u0641 \u062a\u0645\u062a \u0643\u0644 \u062a\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0635\u0631\u0627\u0639\u0627\u062a \u0641\u064a \u0634\u0648\u0627\u0631\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0627\u0628\u064a\u062a\u0648\u0644,\u0648\u0647\u0630\u0627 \u064a\u062d\u062a\u0644 \u0645\u0633\u0627\u062d\u0629 \u0636\u062e\u0645\u0629 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0646\u0641\u0633\u0647 \u0642\u062f \u064a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0635\u0631\u0627\u0639 \u0628\u0634\u0648\u0627\u0631\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0635\u0645\u0629 \"\u0627\u0644\u0643\u0627\u0628\u064a\u062a\u0648\u0644\" \u062f\u0645\u0648\u064a\u0627 \u0643\u0627\u0644\u0623\u0631\u064a\u0646\u0627 \"\u0633\u0627\u062d\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0642\u062a\u0627\u0644\" \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u064a\u0638\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0648\u0635\u0641 \u0645\u0637\u0648\u0644\u0627 \u0648\u0645\u0631\u0647\u0642\u0627 \u0648\u0645\u062e\u062a\u0644\u0641\u0627 \u0639\u0646 \u0646\u0648\u0639\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0626\u064a\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0627\u0628\u0642\u064a\u0646 \u0643\u0645\u0627 \u0627\u0646 \u0647\u0646\u0627\u0643 \u062a\u0637\u0648\u064a\u0644 \u0634\u0639\u0631\u062a \u0628\u0647 \u0645\u0646\u0630 \u0628\u062f\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u062d\u062a\u064a \u0645\u0627\u0628\u0639\u062f \u0645\u0646\u062a\u0635\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 -\u0643\u0645\u0627 \u0642\u0644\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0645\u0646 \u0648\u062c\u0647\u0629 \u0646\u0638\u0631 \u0643\u0627\u062a\u0646\u064a\u0633 \u0641\u062d\u0633\u0628- \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u062a\u062a\u062f\u0627\u0639\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0647 \u0641\u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \"\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0643\u0634\u0646\" \u0628\u0647\u0627 \u063a\u0631\u064a\u0628 , \u062d\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0648\u0641\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0628\u0647 \u0643\u0627\u0646\u062a \"\u0645\u062a\u0633\u0627\u0631\u0639\u0629\" \u0641\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0634\u0639\u0631 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u062d\u0632\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0627 \u062a\u0642\u0631\u064a\u0628\u0627 \u0628\u0639\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0626\u064a\u0633\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0642\u0628\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u062e\u0627\u062a\u0645\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0645\u064a\u0644\u0629 Bittersweet \u0648\u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u064a\u0636\u0627 \u064a\u062a\u0634\u0627\u0628\u0647\u0647 \u0645\u0639 \u0647\u0627\u0631\u064a \u0628\u0648\u062a\u0631 \u0648\u0643\u062b\u0631\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0648\u0641\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0641\u064a \u062c\u0632\u0621\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062e\u064a\u0631 \u0648\u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0630\u0643\u0631\u0646\u064a \u0627\u064a\u0636\u0627 \u0628\u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0647 \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0647 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0641\u0627\u0642\u062a \u0643\u0645\u064a\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0648\u0641\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0643\u062b\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0631\u063a\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0645\u0627\u0632\u0627\u0644\u062a \u0641\u064a \u062c\u0632\u0626\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0648\u0644, \u0643\u0645\u0627 \u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0643\u0634\u0646 \"\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u0648\u0627\u0631\u0639\" \u0644\u0645 \u064a\u0643\u0646 \u0645\u0642\u0646\u0639\u0627 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0623\u062e\u064a\u0631\u0629 \u0627\u064a\u0636\u0627 -------------------------- \u062b\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0627 : \u0643\u0644\u0645\u0627\u062a \u062a\u0624\u062b\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0644\u0628 Always VS Real or Not Real \u064a\u0628\u062f\u0648 \u0627\u0646 \u0643\u0644 \u0639\u0634\u0627\u0642 \u0647\u0627\u0631\u064a \u0628\u0648\u062a\u0631 \u0634\u0639\u0631\u0648\u0627 \u0628\u0627\u0646 \u062a\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0644\u0645\u0629 -\u062f\u0627\u0626\u0645\u0627- \u062a\u0639\u062a\u0628\u0631 \u0643\u0639\u0644\u0627\u0645\u0629 \u0645\u0633\u062c\u0644\u0629 \u0644\u0633\u0646\u0627\u0628 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u062e\u0631 \u0645\u0634\u0627\u0647\u062f\u0647 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062e\u064a\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0647\u0627\u0631\u064a \u0628\u0648\u062a\u0631, \u0642\u0635\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u062e\u0627\u0644\u062f\u0629 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0631\u063a\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u0645\u0623\u0633\u0648\u064a\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0627\u064a\u0636\u0627 \u062a\u0645 \u0623\u0633\u062a\u062e\u062f\u0627\u0645\u0647\u0627 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0631\u0648\u0645\u0627\u0646\u0633\u064a \u062c\u062f\u0627 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u064a\u0638\u0644 \u0627\u0633\u062a\u062e\u062f\u0627\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0624\u0644\u0641\u0629 \u0644\"\u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u064a \u0627\u0645 \u0644\u0627\" \u0647\u0648 \u0627\u0643\u062b\u0631 \u0645\u0627\u0634\u062f\u0646\u064a \u0628\u0647\u0630\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0623\u062b\u0631 \u0641\u064a \u0628\u0637\u0631\u064a\u0642\u0629 \u0645\u0645\u062a\u0627\u0632\u0629 \u0648\"\u0627\u0648\u0631\u064a\u062c\u064a\u0646\u0627\u0644\" \u062c\u062f\u0627 \u0644\u064a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0645\u0633\u062c\u0644 \u0644\u0642\u0635\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0628 \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u062a\u0628\u0627\u062f\u0644\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062b\u0646\u064a\u0646 \u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u064a \u0623\u0645 \u0644\u0627 \u0648\u0642\u062f \u0627\u0633\u062a\u062e\u062f\u0645\u0647\u0627 \u0628\u064a\u062a\u0627 \u0648\u0643\u0627\u062a\u0646\u064a\u0633 \u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0645\u0645\u0627 \u064a\u0645\u0646\u062d\u0643 \u0646\u0648\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062c\u0627 \u0644\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0626\u064a\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0627\u0628\u0642\u064a\u0646 \"You\u2019re still trying to protect me. Real or not real,\u201d he whispers \u0648\u0642\u062f \u0648\u0638\u0641\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0631\u0627\u0626\u0639 \u062e\u0644\u0627\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0641\u0639\u0644\u0627 \u062d\u062a\u064a \u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u062a\u0647\u0627 , \u0648\u0623\u062b\u0631\u062a \u0641\u064a \u062c\u062f\u0627 -------------------------- \u062b\u0627\u0644\u062b\u0627 : \u0627\u0644\u062e\u0627\u062a\u0645\u0629 EPILOGUE \u062a\u062a\u0645\u064a\u0632 \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u062c\u0627\u0639\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0646 \u0627\u062e\u0631 \u0641\u0635\u0644 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0642\u0648\u064a \u0648\u0645\u0644\u0627\u0626\u0645 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0627\u0631\u0648\u0639 \u0644\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0629, \u0628\u0639\u0643\u0633 \u0646\u0648\u0639\u0627 \u0645\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0647\u0627\u0631\u064a \u0628\u0648\u062a\u0631 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0628\u0647\u0627 \"\u0643\u0644\u0627\u0634\u064a\u0647\" \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0639\u064a\u062f\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0639\u062a\u0627\u062f\u0629 -\u0648\u062d\u062a\u064a \u0646\u062f\u0645\u062a \u0639\u0644\u064a\u0647\u0627 \u0644\u0627\u062d\u0642\u0627 \u062c\u064a \u0643\u064a \u0631\u0648\u0644\u064a\u0646\u062c \u0641\u064a \u0623\u0645\u0631 \u0631\u0648\u0646 \u0648\u0647\u0631\u0645\u064a\u0648\u0646\u064a \u0623\u0639\u062c\u0628\u0646\u064a \u062c\u062f\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0644\u0643\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0627\u062a \"\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0628\u0642\u064a\u062a \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0642\u064a\u062f \u0627\u0644\u062d\u064a\u0627\u0629 \u0641\u0642\u0637 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0637\u0628\u0639\" \u0648\u062d\u062a\u064a \u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0637\u0627\u063a\u064a /\u0627\u0644\u0637\u063a\u0627\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0633\u0624\u0627\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0639\u0644\u0642...\u0647\u0644 \u0641\u0639\u0644\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0627\u062f\u0645 \u0633\u064a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0623\u0641\u0636\u0644\u061f \u0623\u0639\u062a\u0642\u062f \u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u062c\u0627\u0626\u062a \u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0643\u064a\u0641 \u062a\u0624\u062b\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0648\u0631\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0646\u0641\u0648\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0639\u0636 \u0633\u0648\u0627\u0621 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0627\u064a\u062c\u0627\u0628\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0648 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0628\u064a\u0629 -\u0648\u0638\u0647\u0648\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0637 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0643\u0645\u0627 \u0628\u0628\u062f\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u062c\u0639\u0644\u0646\u064a \u0627\u062a\u0623\u062b\u0631 \u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631\u0627 , \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0634\u0647\u062f \u062a\u0645 \u062a\u0642\u062f\u064a\u0645\u0647 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0645\u0645\u062a\u0627\u0632 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0641\u064a\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062e\u064a\u0631- \u201cAre you, are you Coming to the tree Where I told you to run, so we\u2019d both be free. Strange things did happen here No stranger would it be If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree.\u201d \u0647\u0644 \u062a\u0623\u062a\u064a ,\u0647\u0644 \u062a\u0623\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062c\u0631\u0629\" \u0625\u0644\u064a \u062d\u064a\u062b \u0642\u0644\u062a \u0644\u0643\u064a \u0623\u0646 \u062a\u0647\u0631\u0628\u064a ,\u0644\u0646\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0633\u0648\u064a\u0627 \u0623\u062d\u0631\u0627\u0631 \u0623\u0634\u064a\u0627\u0621 \u063a\u0631\u064a\u0628\u0629 \u062d\u062f\u062b\u062a \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0644\u0646 \u064a\u062d\u062f\u062b \u0627\u0644\u0623\u063a\u0631\u0628 \"\u0641\u064a \u062d\u0627\u0644 \u062a\u0642\u0627\u0628\u0644\u0646\u0627 \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0628\u0645\u0646\u062a\u0635\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u0644\u064a\u0644, \u0639\u0646\u062f \u0645\u0634\u0646\u0642\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062c\u0631\u0629 -------------------------- \u0631\u0627\u0628\u0639\u0627 \u0648\u0623\u062e\u064a\u0631\u0627 : \u062d\u0643\u0627\u064a\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062e\u0648\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0644\u0627\u062b\u0647 \u0648 \u062d\u0643\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0634\u062c\u0631\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0634\u0646\u0642\u0629 \u0642\u0635\u0629, \u0647\u064a \u062f\u0627\u0626\u0645\u0627 \u0642\u0635\u0629 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0631\u0627\u062b \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0648\u0631\u0648\u062b \u0641\u064a \u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629..\u0642\u0635\u0629 \u062a\u062a\u0631\u062f\u062f \u0645\u0646\u0630 \u0628\u062f\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062e\u064a\u0631 \u0642\u0635\u0629 \u0642\u062f \u062a\u0634\u0639\u0631 \u0627\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0642\u062f\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0637\u0644 \u062d\u062a\u064a \u064a\u062a\u0645\u0631\u062f \u0639\u0644\u064a\u0647\u0627 \u0628\u062b\u0648\u0631\u062a\u0647 \u0641\u064a \u0647\u0627\u0631\u064a \u0628\u0648\u062a\u0631 \u0642\u0635\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062e\u0648\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0644\u0627\u062b\u0647 \u0643\u0627\u0646\u062a \u062a\u0635\u0648\u0631 \u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u062c\u0627\u062d \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0646\u0635\u0631 \u064a\u062d\u062a\u0627\u062c \u0627\u0644\u064a \"\u0645\u0642\u0627\u0648\u0645\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0648\u062a\" \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0647\u0631\u0648\u0628 \u0645\u0646\u0647 \u0628\u0639\u0628\u0627\u0621\u0629 \u0623\u062e\u0641\u0627\u0621..\u062d\u062c\u0631 \u0623\u0639\u0627\u062f\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u064a\u0627\u0629 \u0623\u0648 \u0639\u0635\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0648\u0629 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0645\u0631 \u0644\u0645 \u064a\u0643\u0646 \u0647\u0643\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0628\u062f\u0627 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0631\u063a\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0646\u0643 \u0633\u062a\u0639\u062a\u0642\u062f \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062e\u064a\u0631 \u0639\u0646\u062f \u0630\u0643\u0631\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0646 \"\u0645\u0642\u0627\u0648\u0645\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0648\u062a\" \u0647\u064a \u0637\u0631\u064a\u0642\u062a\u0647 \u0644\u0644\u0646\u0635\u0631 \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0641\u0623\u063a\u0646\u064a\u0647 \u0634\u062c\u0631\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0634\u0646\u0642\u0629, \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0623\u0631\u0648\u064a\u0647\u0627 \u0644\u0643\u0645 \u0628\u0644\u063a\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0635\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u0646\u0630 \u0628\u062f\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u064a\u0641\u064a\u0648 \u0627\u0648\u062d\u062a \u0644\u0644\u0628\u0637\u0644\u0647 \u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0647\u0631\u0648\u0628 \u0645\u0646 \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u062d\u064a\u0645 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0628\u062f\u0627\u062f \u0644\u0646 \u064a\u0623\u062a\u064a \u0633\u0648\u064a \u0628\u062a\u0631\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u062d\u064a\u0645 \u062a\u0645\u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0633\u0644\u0627\u0645 \u0644\u0644\u0639\u062f\u0645,\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0648\u062a..\u0648\u0630\u0644\u0643 \u0642\u0628\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0647\u064a \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0642\u0648\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062c\u0632\u0627\u0621 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u064a\u0636\u0627 \u0648\u0627\u0639\u062c\u0628\u062a\u0646\u064a \u062c\u062f\u0627 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0631\u063a\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u0637\u0627\u0628\u0639\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0634\u0627\u0624\u0645\u064a , \u0627\u0644\u0627 \u0627\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0644\u0644\u0627\u0633\u0641 \u062a\u0644\u064a\u0642 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0634\u064a\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u063a\u0631\u064a\u0628\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u062a\u062d\u062f\u062b \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0646 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u064a,\u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u062a\u0639\u062f\u0646\u0627 \u0644\u0644\u0623\u0633\u0641 \u0643\u0627\u0644\u0627\u063a\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u063a\u0631\u0628 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0641\u0639\u0644 \u064a\u062d\u062f\u062b..\u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u062a\u062f\u0639\u0648 \u0644\u0639\u062f\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0633\u062a\u0633\u0644\u0627\u0645..\u0639\u062f\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0647\u0631\u0628 \u0628\u0647\u0630\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0637\u0631\u064a\u0642\u0629..\u0648\u0647\u0630\u0647 \u0647\u064a \u0642\u064a\u0645\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0642\u0648\u062a\u0647\u0627..\u0642\u0648\u0629 \u0643\u0627\u062a\u0646\u064a\u0633 \u0623\u064a\u0641\u064a\u0631\u062f\u064a\u0646 \u201cAre you, are you Coming to the tree Wear a necklace of rope, side by side with me. Strange things did happen here No stranger would it be If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree.\u201d \u0647\u0644 \u062a\u0623\u062a\u064a ,\u0647\u0644 \u062a\u0623\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062c\u0631\u0629\" \u0623\u0631\u062a\u062f\u064a \u0639\u0642\u062f\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0628\u0627\u0644 , \u062c\u0646\u0628\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u064a \u062c\u0646\u0628 \u0645\u0639\u064a \u0623\u0634\u064a\u0627\u0621 \u063a\u0631\u064a\u0628\u0629 \u062d\u062f\u062b\u062a \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0644\u0646 \u064a\u062d\u062f\u062b \u0627\u0644\u0623\u063a\u0631\u0628 \"\u0641\u064a \u062d\u0627\u0644 \u062a\u0642\u0627\u0628\u0644\u0646\u0627 \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0628\u0645\u0646\u062a\u0635\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u0644\u064a\u0644, \u0639\u0646\u062f \u0645\u0634\u0646\u0642\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062c\u0631\u0629 **************************************************** \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 ***** \u0648\u0644\u0646\u062f\u0639\u0646\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0643\u0644 \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0634\u0627\u0624\u0645 \u0648\u0644\u0646\u0631\u064a \u0645\u0627\u062a\u0641\u0648\u0642\u062a \u0641\u064a\u0647 \u0628\u062d\u0642 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0624\u0644\u0641\u0647 \u0648\u0645\u0627 \u0628\u062f\u0623\u062a \u0628\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u064a\u0641\u064a\u0648, \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0648\u0631\u064a\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0642\u0648\u064a \u0641\u064a \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u062f\u064a\u0633\u062a\u0648\u0628\u064a\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0648\u062c\u0647\u0647 \u0646\u0638\u0631\u064a \u0648\u062a\u0637\u0648\u0631 \u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0623\u0631\u0648\u0639 \u0648\u0623\u062f\u0642 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0637\u0648\u0631\u0627\u062a \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0645\u0646 \u0630\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0648\u0639 \u0644\u0645 \u062a\u0623\u062a\u064a \u062b\u0648\u0631\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u062a\u0645\u0631\u062f\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0645\u0631\u0627 \u0645\u0628\u0627\u0644\u063a \u0641\u064a\u0647, \u0628\u0631\u0639\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0624\u0644\u0641\u0647 \u0641\u064a \u0631\u0633\u0645 \u0643\u064a\u0641 \u0628\u062f\u0623\u062a \u0643\u0648\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0647 \u0644\u0627 \u062a\u0641\u0643\u0631 \u0633\u0648\u064a \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0647\u0631\u0648\u0628 \u0644\u0644\u0639\u064a\u0634 \u0645\u0639 \u0627\u0647\u0644\u0647\u0627 \u0641\u062d\u0633\u0628 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u063a\u0627\u0628\u0647 \u0628\u0639\u064a\u062f\u0627 \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u064a \u0634\u0626..\u062b\u0645 \u0625\u0644\u064a \u062a\u062d\u0648\u0644\u0647\u0627 \u0631\u0645\u0632\u0627 \u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u064a\u0627 \u0644\u0644\u062b\u0648\u0631\u0629, \u0648\u0643\u064a\u0641 \u062a\u0645 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0628\u062f\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0633\u062a\u062e\u062f\u0627\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0645\u0632 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \"\u0645\u0647\u064a\u0646\" \u0644\u0644\u0641\u0643\u0631\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0648\u0631\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u062d\u062c\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u062f\u0639\u0627\u064a\u0629 , \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0628\u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u062a\u0644\u0642\u0627\u0626\u064a\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u062a\u062d\u0648\u0644\u062a \u0627\u0644\u064a \u0634\u0639\u0644\u0629 \u062b\u0648\u0631\u064a\u0629 \u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0639\u064a\u062f\u0627 \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0632\u064a\u0641 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0646\u0641\u0627\u0642 \u062a\u062d\u0648\u0644\u062a \u0627\u0644\u064a \u0637\u0627\u0626\u0631 \u062d\u0631, \u064a\u0631\u0641\u0636 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0645\u0639 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0628\u062f\u0627\u062f \u0623\u064a\u0627 \u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0645\u0633\u0645\u0627\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u062a\u0627\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0634\u062a\u0639\u0644\u0629 \u0627\u0634\u0639\u0644\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0644\u0647\u0628 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0641\u0633\u0627\u062f \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0644\u0627\u0627\u0646\u0633\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0629 ,\u0648\u062d\u0644\u0642\u062a \u0643\u0637\u0627\u0626\u0631 \u062d\u0631 \u062d\u0644\u0642\u062a \u0628\u0639\u064a\u062f\u0627 \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0637\u063a\u064a\u0627\u0646...\u0627\u064a \u0646\u0648\u0639 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0637\u063a\u064a\u0627\u0646 \u0637\u063a\u064a\u0627\u0646 \u062d\u0627\u0643\u0645 , \u0627\u0648 \u0637\u063a\u064a\u0627\u0646 \u062b\u0648\u0631\u064a \u062c\u0627\u0645\u062d \u0644\u064a\u0633 \u0644\u0644\u0627\u0646\u062a\u0642\u0627\u0645 \u0648\u0627\u0646\u0645\u0627...\u0644\u062d\u064a\u0627\u0647 \u0644\u0644\u0628\u0634\u0631\u064a\u0647 \u0627\u062c\u0645\u0644, \u0642\u062f \u0644\u0627\u0646\u0635\u0644 \u0644\u064a\u0648\u062a\u0648\u0628\u064a\u0627, \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0641\u0642\u0637 \u0646\u062d\u0627\u0648\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0627 \u0646\u062c\u0639\u0644\u0647\u0627 \u062f\u064a\u0633\u062a\u0648\u0628\u064a\u0627 \u0642\u062f \u064a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0627\u0644\u062b \u0647\u0648 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0642\u0644 \u062a\u0641\u0636\u064a\u0644\u0627 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0646\u0633\u0628\u0629 \u0644\u064a \"\u0627\u0632\u064a\u062f \u0645\u0646 3 \u0646\u062c\u0648\u0645 \u0628\u0642\u0644\u064a\u0644\" \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0629 \u0628\u0648\u062c\u0647\u0647 \u0639\u0627\u0645 \u0648\u062a\u0637\u0648\u0631 \u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0629 \u0643\u0627\u062a\u0646\u064a\u0633 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0647\u064a \u0645\u0627\u062c\u0639\u0644\u062a \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0642\u064a\u064a\u0645 \u064a\u0639\u0644\u0648,\u0648\u064a\u062c\u0639\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0629 \u0645\u0646 \u0648\u062c\u0647\u0647 \u0646\u0638\u0631\u064a \u0641\u0639\u0644\u0627 \u062a\u0633\u062a\u062d\u0642 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0631\u0627\u0621\u0629 \u0643\u0648\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0629 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u062c\u0645\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0648\u0631\u064a\u0629 \u0633\u0627\u0641\u062a\u0642\u062f \u062c\u062f\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0631\u0627\u0621\u0647 \u0644\u0643\u0627\u062a\u0646\u064a\u0633 \u0627\u064a\u0641\u064a\u0631\u062f\u064a\u0646..\u0648\u0633\u0645\u0627\u0639 \u0635\u0648\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u0647\u0648 \u064a\u062a\u0631\u0646\u0645...\u062a\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0646\u0634\u0648\u062f\u0647 \"Deep in the meadow, under the willow A bed of grass, a soft green pillow Lay down your head, and close your sleepy eyes And when again they open, the sun will rise. Here it\u2019s safe, here it\u2019s warm Here the daisies guard you from every harm Here your dreams are sweet and tomorrow brings them true Here is the place where I love you. \u0648\u0627\u0644\u064a \u0631\u064a\u0641\u064a\u0648 \u0644\u0644\u062b\u0644\u0627\u062b\u064a\u0647 \u0645\u0639\u0627 \u0627\u0646 \u0634\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0644\u0647 \u0645\u062d\u0645\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0631\u0628\u064a \u0645\u0646 5 \u0645\u0627\u0631\u0633 2014 \u0627\u0644\u064a 16 \u0645\u0627\u0631\u0633 2014 ________________________________________ \u062a\u062d\u062f\u064a\u062b \u0641\u064a 22 \u0646\u0648\u0641\u0645\u0628\u0631 2014 \u0628\u0639\u062f \u0645\u0634\u0627\u0647\u062f\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u064a\u0644\u0645 \u064a\u0646\u0628\u063a\u064a \u0623\u0646 \u0627\u0642\u0648\u0644 \u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u064a\u0644\u0645 \u0641\u0639\u0644\u0627 \u062a\u0641\u0648\u0642 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0623\u062e\u0635, \u0627\u0634\u0639\u0631 \u062f\u0627\u0626\u0645\u0627 \u0627\u0646 \u0643\u0627\u062a\u0628\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0633\u064a\u0646\u0627\u0631\u064a\u0648 \u064a\u062d\u0627\u0648\u0644\u0648\u0627 \u0633\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0639\u064a\u0648\u0628 \u0644\u064a\u0631\u0648\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0629 \u0643\u0627\u0645\u0644\u0629 \u0628\u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0628\u0639\u0643\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0624\u0644\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0642\u062f \u064a\u0642\u0639 \u0645\u0646\u0647 \u0642\u0644\u064a\u0644 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0643\u0639\u0648\u062f\u0629 \u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0629 \u0623\u064a\u0641\u064a \u0645\u062b\u0644\u0627 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0641\u062a\u0642\u062f\u0647\u0627 \u062c\u062f\u0627 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629, \u0644\u062a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0645\u0648\u062c\u0648\u062f\u0629 \u0645\u0646\u0630 \u0628\u062f\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0627\u0644\u062b \u0648\u0628\u0627\u0644\u0637\u0628\u0639 \u0643\u0645\u0627 \u0642\u0644\u062a \u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0645\u0646 \u0648\u062c\u0647\u0629 \u0646\u0638\u0631 \u0643\u0627\u062a\u0646\u064a\u0633 \u0641\u0642\u0637 \u0641\u064a \u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0647\u0627\u0645 \u0643\u0647\u0630\u0627 \u062c\u0639\u0644 \u0628\u0639\u0636 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0644\u0644 \u064a\u062a\u0633\u0631\u0628 \u0625\u0644\u064a \u0623\u062b\u0646\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0631\u0627\u0621\u0629 , \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u064a\u0644\u0645 \u0642\u0627\u0645 \u0628\u062a\u0644\u0627\u0641\u064a \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u062d\u064a\u062b \u064a\u0642\u062f\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0645\u0646 \u0623\u0643\u062b\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0648\u062c\u0647\u0629 \u0646\u0638\u0631 \u0648\u0644\u064a\u0633 \u0645\u0646 \u062c\u0647\u0629 \u0643\u0627\u062a\u0646\u064a\u0633 \u0641\u062d\u0633\u0628 \u0623\u0645\u0627 \u0623\u0643\u062b\u0631 \u0645\u0627 \u0639\u062c\u0628\u0646\u064a \u0641\u0647\u064a \u062c\u0645\u0644\u0629 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0644\u0633\u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0627\u062d\u0644 \"\u0641\u064a\u0644\u064a\u0628 \u0633\u064a\u0645\u0648\u0631 \u0647\u0648\u0641\u0645\u0627\u0646\" \u0641\u064a \u062f\u0648\u0631 \u0628\u0644\u0627\u062a\u0634\u0631 \u0623\u0646\u0647 \u063a\u064a\u0631 \u0643\u0644\u0645\u0629 \u062d\u0628\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u064a \u0623\u0645\u0644 \u0641\u064a \u062a\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0646\u0634\u0648\u062f\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u063a\u0646\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0643\u0627\u062a\u0646\u064a\u0633...\u0628\u062f\u0644\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u062d\u0628\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0634\u0646\u0642\u0629 \u062d\u0648\u0644\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u064a \u0623\u0645\u0644 \u0648\u0647\u0630\u0627 \u064a\u062a\u0644\u0627\u0626\u0645 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u062a\u0623\u0643\u064a\u062f \u0645\u0639 \u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629...\u0628\u0627\u0644\u0637\u0628\u0639 \u062f\u0648\u0646 \u0645\u0634\u0627\u0646\u0642 \u0644\u0627 \u062a\u0633\u062a\u0633\u0644\u0645 \u0623\u0628\u062f\u0627 \u0644\u0644\u0645\u0648\u062a, \u0644\u0645 \u064a\u0643\u0646 \u0642\u062a\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0641\u0633 \u0623\u0628\u062f\u0627 \u062d\u0631\u064a\u0629 \u0623\u062b\u0631\u062a \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0623\u063a\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u062c\u062f\u0627 \u0628\u0635\u0648\u062a \u0643\u0627\u062a\u0646\u064a\u0633, \u0648\u0633\u0639\u062f\u062a \u0639\u0646\u062f\u0645\u0627 \u062d\u0627\u0648\u0644\u062a \u062a\u0639\u062f\u064a\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u064a\u0641\u064a\u0648 \u0623\u0646 \u0648\u062c\u062f\u062a \u0623\u0646\u064a \u0642\u062f \u0623\u0634\u0631\u062a \u0644\u0647\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0642\u0628\u0644 \u0645\u0634\u0627\u0647\u062f\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u064a\u0644\u0645 \u0641\u0644\u0645 \u0623\u0642\u0645 \u0633\u0648\u064a \u0628\u062a\u0639\u062f\u064a\u0644 \u0628\u0633\u064a\u0637 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0631\u064a\u0641\u064a\u0648 \u0648\u0623\u0636\u0627\u0641\u0629 \u062a\u0631\u062c\u0645\u0629 \u0644\u0647\u0627 \u0628\u062f\u0644\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u063a\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0646\u062c\u0644\u064a\u0632\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u062d\u0633\u0628 \u0623\u062b\u0631\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0623\u063a\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0623\u0642\u0648\u064a \u0641\u064a \u0628\u0633\u0628\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0648\u0627\u062f\u062b \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0624\u0633\u0641\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0635\u0631\u0646\u0627 \u0646\u0631\u0627\u0647\u0627 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u062f\u0627\u0626\u0645...\u0646\u0633\u0623\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0644\u0647 \u0623\u0646 \u064a\u062e\u0631\u062c\u0646\u0627 \u0645\u0645\u0627 \u0643\u0644 \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0648\u062c\u0639 \u0648\u064a\u062d\u0633\u0646 \u062e\u062a\u0627\u0645\u0646\u0627 \u201cAre you, are you Coming to the tree Wear a necklace of HOPE, side by side with me. Strange things did happen here No stranger would it be If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree.\u201d \u0647\u0644 \u062a\u0623\u062a\u064a ,\u0647\u0644 \u062a\u0623\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062c\u0631\u0629\" \u0623\u0631\u062a\u062f\u064a \u0639\u0642\u062f\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0645\u0627\u0644 , \u062c\u0646\u0628\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u064a \u062c\u0646\u0628 \u0645\u0639\u064a \u0623\u0634\u064a\u0627\u0621 \u063a\u0631\u064a\u0628\u0629 \u062d\u062f\u062b\u062a \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0644\u0646 \u064a\u062d\u062f\u062b \u0627\u0644\u0623\u063a\u0631\u0628 \"\u0641\u064a \u062d\u0627\u0644 \u062a\u0642\u0627\u0628\u0644\u0646\u0627 \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0628\u0645\u0646\u062a\u0635\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u0644\u064a\u0644, \u0639\u0646\u062f \u0645\u0634\u0646\u0642\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062c\u0631\u0629 \u201cAre you, are you Coming to the tree Where I told you to run, so we\u2019d both be free. Strange things did happen here No stranger would it be If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree.\u201d \u0647\u0644 \u062a\u0623\u062a\u064a ,\u0647\u0644 \u062a\u0623\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062c\u0631\u0629\" \u0625\u0644\u064a \u062d\u064a\u062b \u0642\u0644\u062a \u0644\u0643\u064a \u0623\u0646 \u062a\u0647\u0631\u0628\u064a ,\u0644\u0646\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0633\u0648\u064a\u0627 \u0623\u062d\u0631\u0627\u0631 \u0623\u0634\u064a\u0627\u0621 \u063a\u0631\u064a\u0628\u0629 \u062d\u062f\u062b\u062a \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0644\u0646 \u064a\u062d\u062f\u062b \u0627\u0644\u0623\u063a\u0631\u0628 \"\u0641\u064a \u062d\u0627\u0644 \u062a\u0642\u0627\u0628\u0644\u0646\u0627 \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0628\u0645\u0646\u062a\u0635\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u0644\u064a\u0644, \u0639\u0646\u062f \u0645\u0634\u0646\u0642\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062c\u0631\u0629 \u0631\u0627\u0628\u0637 \u0644\u0644\u0623\u063a\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0635\u0648\u062a \u062c\u064a\u0646\u064a\u0641\u0631 \u0644\u0648\u0631\u0627\u0646\u0633 / \u0643\u0627\u062a\u0646\u064a\u0633 \u0623\u064a\u0641\u064a\u0631\u062f\u064a\u0646 \u0648\u0645\u0648\u0633\u064a\u0642\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0627\u0626\u0639 \u062c\u064a\u0645\u0633 \u0646\u064a\u0648\u062a\u0646 \u0647\u0627\u0648\u0631\u062f \u0645\u0644\u062d\u0648\u0638\u0629 \u0641\u064a 21 \u0646\u0648\u0641\u0645\u0628\u0631 2015 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0632\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0627\u0646\u064a \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u064a\u0644\u0645 \u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0645\u0624\u062b\u0631\u0627 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0631\u0647\u064a\u0628 \u0627\u0643\u062b\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0631\u0627\u0626\u0639 \u062d\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0643\u0634\u0646 \u0641\u064a\u0647 \u0627\u0641\u0636\u0644 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u064a\u0638\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u0644\u0627\u0626\u0645\u0629 \u062a\u0645\u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0644\u0644\u0643\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0648\u0645\u0642\u062f\u0645\u0629 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0639\u0628\u0642\u0631\u064a \u064a\u062d\u0628\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0646\u0641\u0627\u0633 \u0644\u0627 \u062a\u0641\u0648\u062a \u0642\u0631\u0627\u0621\u0629 \u062a\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0629 \u0648\u0644\u0627 \u0645\u0634\u0627\u0647\u062f\u0629 \u0627\u0641\u0644\u0627\u0645\u0647\u0627 ...more Updated! November 25, 2014 New 2nd addendum below the 1st addendum. Further thoughts/explanations as to why I gave this book five stars at the end of the original review. Warning: addendum contains some spoilers. I've thought long and hard as to how I should review this book. For starters I feel I need to say upfront, this book is not for everyone. Mockingjay is the darkest book of the Hunger Games trilogy, containing excess violence, brutality and ugliness. People die. It would be naive to expe Updated! November 25, 2014 New 2nd addendum below the 1st addendum. Further thoughts/explanations as to why I gave this book five stars at the end of the original review. Warning: addendum contains some spoilers. I've thought long and hard as to how I should review this book. For starters I feel I need to say upfront, this book is not for everyone. Mockingjay is the darkest book of the Hunger Games trilogy, containing excess violence, brutality and ugliness. People die. It would be naive to expect otherwise in a book dealing with war. If you're all about puppies, kittens, rainbows, unicorns, and disgustingly sweet happily-ever-afters don't bother reading this book. Faint of heart need not apply, I mean it. This story isn't told by Katniss, The Girl Who Was On Fire. It's told by Katniss, the quiet girl from District 12 who unintentionally inspired a revolution through one simple act of defiance. Needless to say Katniss, ever weary of the roles she's been forced to play, is reluctant to officially step up, to be the Mockingjay, to lead the revolution against the Capitol. President Coin, leader of District 13, makes it clear from the start she is no fan of Katniss, saying they should have saved 'the boy' first. Katniss agrees with President Coin here--Peeta was always better with words and has a 'way' with people--but otherwise Katniss does not trust the woman. Life in District 13 isn't all that it's cracked up to be. Though Katniss doesn't desire the spotlight and never wanted power she finally agrees to take on the burden of leading a rebellion. Hoping that in doing so she might save Peeta's life and finally put an end to President Snow's rule. And so, with Haymitch, Gale, Beetee, Finnick and her old prep team backing her up Katniss becomes the Mockingjay. So much happens in this book, so much I didn't expect. That being said, I love this book. I love this series. Mockingjay is a hauntingly-beautiful conclusion to an enjoyable, thought-provoking series. This series will always have a home on my bookshelf, and I hope that one day, when my girls are old enough to read it, they'll appreciate it as much as I do. P.S. And it needs to be said: even though the Peeta-Katniss-Gale love triangle is very much present in this book, it's not the focal point of the story. It never was. The Hunger Games series is about so much more than teenage angst, or romantic love. So...I don't know, get over yourselves and go read something else if you were looking for a nonsensical happily ever after. P.P.S. The epilogue is what finally pushed me over the edge and made me cry. *** Further explanation/thoughts about why I think this book is amazing (contains some spoilers): I didn't cry with either of the major deaths in this book, though I felt more when the first one happened, probably because I felt more connected to the first character then I did the second. The second death was tragic and senseless. But I don't think the second death undermines the whole series, like many critics of this book have said. Nor does it make the story pointless. Many have said that they felt detached from the story while reading this book. I felt that detachment too, but I genuinely feel that is what Suzanne Collins was hoping for. Here's the deal, my father went to Vietnam and experienced a lot of senseless violence, lost a lot of friends and acquaintances. In all my life I've only heard him speak about it in a candid manner one time. Otherwise he speaks about it in a detached way, as if he read about it or watched some footage of it instead of actually experiencing it firsthand. I feel it is his way of coping with it, which is kind of sad but understandable because even to this day he suffers from the PTSD that resulted from his time in Vietnam. I feel that Katniss, by starting that book about everyone she knew who died, was doing what my father needs to do (although, as far as I know, he probably has done something similar--like I said, he doesn't ever talk about it with me). She was finally facing and working through the all the grief and pain. My point is, the reason we felt detached from the story is because Katniss was already detached. She was so messed up by all the senseless violence that she'd already checked out emotionally. And when reality threatened to take over, she took drugs to make it all better. Under similar circumstances I think every normal person would shut down emotionally. If Katniss had continued to function normally after going through all that we'd probably have a sociopath on our hands. Like Peeta said, when you kill someone you lose a part of yourself, you're killing a part of your soul. Suzanne Collins did a fantastic job illustrating that. Katniss triumphs in the end because, even though it took time, she confronts the pain, works through it. She lives her life, no longer the actress, the puppet or the victim. (view spoiler) [I especially love that she does what she vowed to never do. She has children. The best part is, her children, everyone's children for that matter, won't ever know the horrors of Reaping Day and the Hunger Games. (hide spoiler) ] I feel she ended up with with the right man. And no, I don't think she settled for him. I knew she truly loved him when she started fighting for him, not only for his life but for all those lost memories, for his love. I also feel Katniss is a romantic person, just not in the traditional sense. The girl kept the pearl, would take it out when she was thinking of him! Carried it with her into battle. Didn't even throw it out when he rejected her when he tried to kill her (on more than one occasion)! Speaking of, talk about the ultimate rejection (view spoiler) [ Peeta strangling Katniss after he was literally rescued on her behalf and she finally understood how she felt about him (hide spoiler) ] . I think my heart broke for Katniss when that all happened. *** About Katniss and PTSD I believe only those who know someone who have suffer from PTSD or suffer PTSD themselves can truly understand the Katniss Everdeen that showed up in Mockingjay. She's an emotionally wounded person who is suffering from PTSD and never given any therapy to deal with it. She is shoehorned into the role of HERO/REBEL to fit someone else's agenda. Perhaps Suzanne Collins should have done a better job pointing it out. Maybe she should have been like, \"HEY EVERYONE! KATNISS IS SUFFERING FROM MAJOR PTSD AND DOESN'T FEEL LIKE A HERO OR LEADER!\" But, see, Katniss basically says as much with her actions and thoughts and actual words spoken to other characters throughout the entire book. You just have to pay attention. About Peeta vs Gale Okay, I've already said it but I feel it bears repeating since so many people hate this book simply because of who Katniss chooses in the end: this series is about so much more than romantic love. It's a story about a revolution that happens to have a love story in it, not the other way around. This isn't Twilight. But fine, whatever, let's talk about this. I'm tired of people saying Katniss settled for Peeta. No she didn't. It's clearly there, her love for him. It's all over the pages of this book, though it's even present in The Hunger Games and Catching Fire (more about this later). Even Gale knows how she feels and says as much when they're in District 12 to film the propo. Gale tells her he knows she kissed him because he (Gale) was in pain. He says it again when they're out hunting right before they attacked the mountain compound. Gale isn't stupid but he keeps his pony in the race because he wants to be the one she picks because he loves her. Then Gale and Peeta talk about who Katniss is going to pick. They agree she's going to pick the one she can't survive without. We can debate day and night over who that person is, but based on Katniss' words and actions throughout this series it is clear to me Peeta is the one she 'can't survive without'. Sure, she would have continued to live if Peeta had never returned to her in District 12, but she'd have been a shadow of herself. With Peeta, because he understood her struggles and was able to be there for her and support her, she was able to recover a part of who she was before and then some. They needed each other. Same reason Haymitch needed Katniss and Peeta in his life. Same reason all the victors seemed to gravitate toward one another. They understood what others could not. But if Katniss really wanted Gale she would have picked him. From the beginning Katniss did what she wanted whenever she could. Once she removed herself from the spotlight and once her life wasn't threatnend she was able to make whatever decision she wanted and she did. Katniss choose Peeta because she wanted him. She loved Peeta. If you need further proof: \"She loves you, you know,\" says Peeta. \"She as good as told me after they whipped you.\" \"Don't believe it,\"Gale answers. \"The way she kissed you in the Quarter Quell...well she never kissed me like that.\" Again, Gale isn't stupid. He saw that kiss and knew. What kiss, you ask? It was all an act, you say? Yeah, well, not all of it was an act. Of all the kisses Katniss bestows upon her suitors, only two are really described in a way that sounds sensual. Both of those kisses are with Peeta. First kiss happens during the 74th Hunger Games in the cave: \u201cThis is the first kiss that we\u2019re both fully aware of\u2026 This is the first kiss where I actually feel stirring inside my chest. Warm and curious. This is the first kiss that makes me want another.\u201d This one didn't really go anywhere because Peeta notices her headwound is bleeding again and so he stops kissing her to take care of it. But still, she wants to keep kissing him rather than continuing to do so because she has to. Not really a sexy kiss but it means something. Second kiss/makeout is during the 75th Hunger Games and is the kiss Gale is talking about: \"This time, there is nothing but us to interrupt us. And after a few attempts, Peeta gives up on talking. The sensation inside me grows warmer and spreads out from my chest, down through my body, out along my arms and legs, to the tips of my being. Instead of satisfying me, the kisses have the opposite effect, of making my need greater. I thought I was something of an expert on hunger, but this is an entirely new kind.\" Man, that sounds pretty amazing, right? Yeah, she never has a kiss like that with Gale. Not once. And if she had it would have been in one of these books because it might have made a difference in who she picked. But Gale and Katniss never shared such a kiss because he wasn't the one. Also, Gale did think up the trap that ended up killing Prim...so there's that. Prim's Death Doesn't Undermine The Entire Story Of all the reasons to not like this book, this one makes me the most angry. I honestly don't understand it. Sure, the whole reason Katniss volunteered for the 74th Hunger Games was to save her sister's life. It sucks that, in the end, she dies. It's truly awful and seems senseless and that my folks is the point. War is awful and oftentimes senseless but Prim's death was not in vain. Prim's death, the specific way she died, is the only way Katniss was able to see and understand how truly evil President Coin was. Sure, in a way she always knew, especially when crazy Peeta was sent to do propos with them, but Katniss might not have done anything about it. Because of Prim's death Katniss made sure President Coin's rule came to an end. The people of Panem will never know the bullet they dodged because of Prim's death. Look, if you don't like this book that's fine. Just stop saying Prim's death cancelled out everything or Katniss settled for Peeta or that Katniss was a weakling. You look like a fool when you say as much. There are other reasons to not like this book, reasons I can and do totally respect, but the reasons listed above are probably the dumbest I've ever heard. I actually think less of you when you list one of these reasons. Do yourself a favor and read it once more without your hopes and expectations mucking up the experience for you. Pay attention to what's actually going on. Put yourself in Katniss Everdeen's shoes and realize you'd probably react the exact same way, especially if you'd experienced what she has experienced or lost what she lost. Realize that after experiencing such trauma you probably wouldn't be up for leading a nation and, no, that isn't selfish. And, yes, Katniss got a happily ever after, it's just not the one you wanted. But it's a good HEA. It's really dang good. ...more Spoilers. When I first read 'Mockingjay' I was a silly little fourteen year old, drunk up on the fast paced action and immediate danger Katniss faced in the first two novels. Given her weakness and exclusion from important events, not to mention my almost 12 month wait for its release, I was bitterly disappointed. Perhaps, reading now, I appreciate Mockingjay more because of my lower expectations. Perhaps it is because I can look at it in a new light. Perhaps its both. I will not delete my origin Spoilers. When I first read 'Mockingjay' I was a silly little fourteen year old, drunk up on the fast paced action and immediate danger Katniss faced in the first two novels. Given her weakness and exclusion from important events, not to mention my almost 12 month wait for its release, I was bitterly disappointed. Perhaps, reading now, I appreciate Mockingjay more because of my lower expectations. Perhaps it is because I can look at it in a new light. Perhaps its both. I will not delete my original review, because I think in a certain way it still stands true. I can easily see why so many people dislike Mockingjay, and I dont blame them. However, Suzanne Collins did take a risk with her approach to this finale, and its either love or hate. Mockingjay shows the horrors of war. Nobody wins, everyone hurts. Collins portrays this well with Katniss: so strong in the first two books, pushed to the very edge of sanity for the majority of this book, on the verge of suffering a total break down. Every character is heavily flawed, pushed to their very limit. Desperation and depression hang on every page, as a result, Mockingjay is one of the most numbing books I have ever read. Not because of character's deaths or beautiful writing, but because of the entire gloomy atmosphere. This is not to say Collins should be applauded for a magnificent finale. It was good, but not the masterpiece it had the potential to be. Parts of this needed to be fleshed out: details, conversations, motives. Im not necessarily talking about Snow's capture or Peetas rescue. Katniss' absence from these events makes perfect sense. How could she remain fit to take down the president? She's a seventeen year old girl who has just watched her sister be blown to pieces, witness Gale be taken by the enemy and presume Peeta dead. I'd love to see you hold it together if your sibling and two best friends are all killed within five minutes, right in front of you. These events take a toll on Katniss. Trauma finally catches up with her. This is something I did not understand first time around; I expected her to be strong and courageous. I wanted her to be stand in the face of impossibility, like every other protagonist in a YA series. She doesn't. She can't. Collins shows nobody can be unflinchingly strong. No one should be expected to. Even heroes suffer. I would have preferred less mention of the camera crews: their reason for inclusion made sense, but it quickly became pointless. Not horrible, just unnecessary and a little distracting. Also, after the Capitol was overthrown, why was Panem not united as one nation? Why do the districts (and isolation, ie Gale moving away from 12 and seemingly dropping off the face of the earth) still stand? More detail and explanation from Collins regarding the ending would have been beneficial. Besides the state of of Katniss and Peeta's relationship, she gives us very little conclusion. Perhaps the publisher gave her too tight a deadline, but this is a huge letdown regardless. There are certainly a lot of good things to take out of Mockingjay, but ultimately it is weak as a conclusion to a trilogy like this one. The following is my initial review. FIRST REVIEW-2010 I gave both The Hunger Games and Catching Fire five stars. And I dont give out five stars easily. Infact, out of my 300+ books, less then twenty have got full marks. So far, this had been my favorite trilogy. I was in love with the characters, and had been waiting for Mockingjay for almost a year. And after that cliff-hanger ending in the previous book, my expectations for the finale were absolutely giant! I wanted to love this. I really, really wanted this to be my favorite book ever. But it totally bombed. On every level, the final book of this exceptional trilogy disappointed. Mrs. Collins had better be glad she will never meet me, or I may go Annie Wilks on her ass, like in that amazing book: Misery I am going to split this review into two sections. Pro's and Con's. !!!!!!!!!!!! WARNING. THERE WILL BE SPOILERS STARTING NOW. IF YOU HAVE NOT READ THE BOOK, STOP NOW!!!!! PROS: -I really loved the part when Finnick and Annie got married. I was so happy for them. And their baby at the end. My brother told me to shut up because I sighed: \"Awwwwww\" really loudly. However, Both should have been heavily expanded and explained in detail. -Regardless of the two stars I issued this disappointing novel, I really enjoyed the majority of the last twenty or so pages. Especially when Peeta and Katniss ended up together :) -The Hanging Tree song. Awesomely creepy. -Peeta ending up with Katniss. Three cheers for team Peeta :). Im so glad she chose him, but its not like she had much choice, is it? I mean Gale moved away, so Peeta was all she had... -Prim dying. This was a pretty sad scene. But its in 'Pros' because im all for character's death, and this was the only death scene that didnt look like it was first draft stuff. CONS: Where do I begin? -Are you kidding me? The most important bits of this story (when Peeta, Annie and Johanna were rescued, when the Capitol was overthrown, and the Trial of President Snow and Katniss) Were totally and utterly overlooked. All these scenes were seemed like sub-plots. I diss Stephenie Meyer for avoiding the action scenes in her novels. Well, that is exactly what Collins did as well. I really wanted to read about *how* Peeta and the others were rescued from the Capitol. I wanted to read about *how* they caught Snow. *Who* caught him and the difficulties they endured. I would have loved it if we could have had some detail from Snow and Katniss's trial and what went on in there. Surely these would have boosted this to at least 4 stars, If we got all the juicy action-packed, suspense-filled detail of the Snow's capture and Peeta/Johanna/Annie's rescue! -Finnick's death scene. Are you joking me? Did Mrs. Collins not want to include any emotion or thought in that part. Just \"Oh no! Finnick's dead! His life flashes before my eyes, he stops breathing. Oh well, lets move on.\" and then not another mention. I actually threw the book across the room. Im not even joking. If Collins had spent more time/effort on this scene, I would have teared up. But I didnt. Because It was awfully written. -Katniss. Can anyone honestly say she used her brain and was utterly brilliant in this one? In my opinion, she was cold, unlikable, stupid, slutty, selfish and an absolute idiot at times ALL THE TIME! At one stage she says: \"Am I really that cold and calculating?\". Yes. Yes she is, -Can we please have some detail about what happened to Gale. Possibly a little more then: He got a job in another District. -The Pods in the Capitol streets. Surely, there could have been another form of excitement then this? I mean, it was a bit ridiculous. Im sure more detail on arresting Snow could have made up for it though. Im just sayin' -Every single character (minus Haymitch, and at times Finnick and Peeta) were utterly one-demential and boring. Also, I wouldnt have objected to more Annie Cresta and Johanna Mason. -Katniss shooting Coin. Okay, so why? And why was there no action taken afterwoods. Like, Katniss just shoots her-gets locked on her own for a few days....and its all forgotten. Just no. -Last, (but not at all least) Suzanne Collins really didnt live up to her own expectations. I have decided that The Hunger Games is an amazing series, but Collins is not a good writer (kind of like Twilight and Smeyer. It showed in this poor book. The plot itself, was poorly executed by Collins. Her writing lacked the thrills of the previous two, and if some one told me that Mockingjay was done by a ghost writer, I would have believed them. All in all, I am enormously disappointed by the finale to this trilogy. Whilst most parts were shocking, it did have its redeeming qualities: Some good one liners, a few breath taking scenes and the like. But sadly, that wasnt enough. The biggest upset was the lack of detail in the important scenes. ...more 2013 edit : Time can do a lot to influence my opinion of books. In some cases, time goes on and I end up appreciating a book more than I did originally, like Ender's Game or The Great Gatsby . But in other cases, time actually diminishes my opinion of certain books. I'm so sick of all this HG-movie hype. Seriously. Ms. Collins' novels were thought-provoking, but not *that* much. I'm left to wonder if I read the same books as everyone else. Collins' writing style doesn't have that much depth. And I 2013 edit : Time can do a lot to influence my opinion of books. In some cases, time goes on and I end up appreciating a book more than I did originally, like Ender's Game or The Great Gatsby . But in other cases, time actually diminishes my opinion of certain books. I'm so sick of all this HG-movie hype. Seriously. Ms. Collins' novels were thought-provoking, but not *that* much. I'm left to wonder if I read the same books as everyone else. Collins' writing style doesn't have that much depth. And I stand by my original comments that Katniss is one of the worst narrators in fiction. Dry as toast. For me, there is very little difference between The Hunger Games trilogy and the Twilight series. Both have been shamelessly promoted and have run amok on fame and notoriety. To me, Hollywood is where good stories go to die. The marketing is just over-the-top... But as long as authors are treated like celebrities and get more money. That's all that matters, right Ms. Collins? Ms. Clare? So as a result, The Hunger Games now gets 4 stars; Catching Fire gets 3 stars, and Mockingjay winds up with 2. --- I\u2019ve had a few days to reflect, and with Mockingjay , my feelings have to do with what I was expecting vs. what I got instead . Since this is the last book, I was prepared for Katniss to settle the love triangle thing once and for all. I was expecting her (and Gale and Peeta) to spend some time on the love story issue, and to bring about the fall of Snow and all that. What disappointed me the most about Mockingjay is that I feel like I never got the resolution that I was looking for. Most final books in a series bring all their loose ends together. Take City of Glass for example: in that book, the whole Jace-Clary-Simon thing is pretty much resolved. Now there\u2019s another book coming out in a few months that could totally screw with the resolution in COG, but Clare tied up her loose ends. And I would argue that by the end of Mockingjay there IS no resolution. Katniss never had to make a decision \u2013 it was pretty much made for her. And even with my \u201creflection time\u201d or \u201ctime out from potential book-bashing,\u201d I still believe that Collins committed (at least) partial hari-kari with her characters. Katniss\u2019 lack of emotional depth, her distrusting and cynical side, were very understandable in The Hunger Games . Partway through Catching Fire , I was starting to tire of her attitude, but I kept thinking, \u201cOkay, she\u2019ll undergo a character change in Mockingjay . She has to.\u201d And she didn\u2019t \u2013 in fact, she got worse. To me, Katniss\u2019 treatment of the people around her in this book is for the most part unacceptable. She is disloyal, especially to Peeta and extremely insensitive of everything that happens to him. I\u2019m not going to go into it, but she showed some series personality flaws that, this late in the game, can\u2019t be excused or explained away. If your MC is not likable, it's hard to hold on to the story. And once again, you had important, emotional, and heart-wrenching deaths happening OFF SCREEN, which makes it even harder to have an emotional reaction. I kept a tally of how many major characters get offed in this installment, and most it was OFF SCREEN! This whole BOOK is emotionally dehydrated . Readers are supposed to feel something, but none of the characters seem to! And then\u2026there\u2019s the last chapter. After 300+ pages of Katniss refusing to deal with her issues, it seemed like an ending that was undeserved. It would have made the ending and the epilogue so much more fulfilling if it had felt genuine, but it didn\u2019t. I\u2019m still not convinced that Katniss is capable of love\u2026 but still, I do appreciate Collins giving us closure. And of course, there\u2019s non-stop action, which has always been the strength of this series. But when books 1 and 2 emphasize action over character development, emotional exploration, or romantic angles, it leaves a lot of necessary ground left to cover for book 3. And once again, there was lot of action\u2026but not a lot of anything else. And that just doesn\u2019t cut it at this stage. ...more This series will never get old for me - it's fantastic. I like the ending a lot better after rereading it I have to say! There is so much I love and despise about this book and my brain is still in a mindfog trying to sort out some of the catastrofuck that just occurred. But first and foremost I must say\u2026 hats off to Suzanne Collins for penning an epic finale of courageous and daring proportions!! Wow she really spared no expense in ending The Hunger Games series with a final installment that will leave a lasting impression! Collins is without a doubt FEARLESS . I am still in complete and absolute shock as I contem There is so much I love and despise about this book and my brain is still in a mindfog trying to sort out some of the catastrofuck that just occurred. But first and foremost I must say\u2026 hats off to Suzanne Collins for penning an epic finale of courageous and daring proportions!! Wow she really spared no expense in ending The Hunger Games series with a final installment that will leave a lasting impression! Collins is without a doubt FEARLESS . I am still in complete and absolute shock as I contemplate the events I never imagined would occur actually took place in this book; characters I never fathomed would be sacrificed, found their final chapters in this installment; and paths I took for granted would be avoided were actually taken. As I read chapter after chapter, I quickly realized that I should give up trying to anticipate Collins' next moves and just expect the unexpected. Collins demonstrated time and time again that she owned this story, and she was not going to compromise her ending with unicorns and rainbows. It was truly out of control at every turn but perfectly executed!! In this final installment of Mockingjay , the most deadly and costly games are launched as the district rebels and the Capitol fight to the bloody finish for power over Panem. Katniss Everdeen continues to be the pawn, but as the games unravel, it\u2019s never quite clear what side she should be playing for and who she should trust. Gale, her lifetime friend, continually makes moves that in the end cost Katniss dearly. Peeta, the person that put his life on the line for her time and time again, becomes a weapon in the games putting her at risk as she fights to survive this deadly powerplay. I had so many favorite characters in this book, but as soon as I let my guard down, they were pulled from my grasp and ripped to shreds. In the end, I feared caring too deeply for any of them and found I began distancing myself emotionally from the story. It was such a psychological ride that I felt completely spent in the end. There were so many endearing moments in this book, such as Katniss\u2019s Crazy Cat game, the moment she realized she needed Haymitch emotionally and he wrapped his arms around her, her revealing moment that Prim was no longer the little sister with the ducktail she need to tuck and protect, and her real or not real response to Peeta\u2019s final question. I loved Finnick Odair in this book and his back-story broke my heart. His reunion with the one person he loved was heart rending and that\u2019s not all, but you\u2019ll have to read to find out more about this hidden gem of a character that I never anticipated would surface at this final hour. This book ends with a dark and painful journey for Katniss and I found myself struggling with what she was going through as a result of her involvement in the revolution. There were moments that I wanted to give up right along side with her, and as I was nearing the end of the story, I couldn\u2019t fathom a resolution I felt she deserved. And, I'm still questioning whether she got it... There is so much more I want to say about this book, but as I said, I\u2019m spent! ...more By now it\u2019s no secret that I fucking hate the The Hunger Games. Instead of doing my usual thing where I attempt to explain why Suzanne Collins\u2019 books are atrocious, I\u2019m going to lay down my reasoning in a set of seven straight forward points. 1. Katniss has the personality of a vegetable 2. Peeta is a needy little baker boy I\u2019ll never get over how the author can justify his camouflage techniques born as a result from his cake decorating experience\u2026\u2026 3. The world is completely unacceptable and u By now it\u2019s no secret that I fucking hate the The Hunger Games. Instead of doing my usual thing where I attempt to explain why Suzanne Collins\u2019 books are atrocious, I\u2019m going to lay down my reasoning in a set of seven straight forward points. 1. Katniss has the personality of a vegetable 2. Peeta is a needy little baker boy I\u2019ll never get over how the author can justify his camouflage techniques born as a result from his cake decorating experience\u2026\u2026 3. The world is completely unacceptable and unbelievable. No collective nation would be so morally depraved as to watch the murder of children for entertainment; I cannot accept this idea. 4. This book did not make me think, as everything is on the surface. There is nothing beyond the story; it is basic and thrown in your face. 5. The writing is atrocious. 6. Collins self-plagiarises herself in the second book. Peeta: We must survive these games. Katniss: Hang on a minute. Didn\u2019t we do this exact same thing before? Peeta: It doesn\u2019t matter. The readers will love it. Katniss: Ok. I forgot. I\u2019m so stupid. I can only think in simple sentences. We must win. I like to shoot arrows. Peeta: Yes. We must live. I shall use my cake decorating skill to our advantage! Katniss:Ok. 7. The whole series is a combination of cheap thrills in which the last book is a complete mess. I hate this series so much; I will never understand its popularity. It is just terrible on every level. I\u2019ve included links to my reviews of the first two books, as they explain my summary here. I honestly couldn\u2019t be bothered to write a full review of this; it didn\u2019t deserve it. It was such a mess. The Hunger Games 1. The Hunger Games - A transparent one star 2. Catching Fire - A cheap one star 3. Mockingjay - A terrible one star ...more Her name is Katniss Everdeen. Mockingjay. \"Haba ng hair\" \"Haba ng hair\" literally means long hair. However, in the Philippines, it means that the girl to whom you address this is very fortunate to have many guys falling for her. That, in this book is Katniss . She has the goodlooking hunter dude, Gale by her side and she enjoys his kisses while doing their hunting (I am not sure how they could still get animals from bomb-striken District 13) in the meadows. Over at the Capitol, is her previous co-t Her name is Katniss Everdeen. Mockingjay. \"Haba ng hair\" \"Haba ng hair\" literally means long hair. However, in the Philippines, it means that the girl to whom you address this is very fortunate to have many guys falling for her. That, in this book is Katniss . She has the goodlooking hunter dude, Gale by her side and she enjoys his kisses while doing their hunting (I am not sure how they could still get animals from bomb-striken District 13) in the meadows. Over at the Capitol, is her previous co-tribute in the arena, the baker Peeta who despite having an artificial leg can still fight like there is no tomorrow. At some point, Katniss also flirted with the underwear-model-looking Finnick before he made up his mind and married Annie . Lastly, there was a thought that she could also be an item with Darius . And these guys are all good-looking. All the young readers, female and gays, are dreaming to be like Katniss. And she is not only popular among the boys. She also has an entourage of beauticians and couturiers who dress her up with wonderful fiery costumes and remove all the the blemishes and freckles off her skin prior to shooting her commercials. How they do that is a puzzle for me because there is no mention of a beauty salon in District 13. To make sure that the boys, Avon-make up and the signature but Batwoman-like costumes will be an envy of the whole universe, she is also being followed by a fleet of TV network people: a director, his assistant, cool (but one of them is mute) looking cameramen and a couple of other techical staff who Katniss calls as \"insects.\" In fact, this book should be a good case study for Marketing cases in the MBA (paging MBA schools!). With Katniss as the untiring model, they (The Hunger Games gamemaster, The President, Katniss drunkard mentor and a battery of minor irrelevant characters) experiment with diffent concepts - the dialogues, the location, the storyboard... Then they see if the product sales is moving up or declining. What do the target markets want? Katniss to show more skin? Katniss to say \"I love The Bar!\"? And oh, the fight scenes. Most of them are just rehash of the previous 2 books. There is nothing new. Some of them even corny. The mutts remind me of zombies or the souls in the purgatory. The holo reminds me of the candidate Noynoy Aquino suddenly incarnating on the floor of ABS-CBN's TV Patrol. Morphing is just too ridiculous to have some believability. Her name is Suzanne Collins. Happy camper. Millionaire writer. Suzanne, please. I really liked Book 1 (Thanks to your husband Cap Pryor who put sense in it according to your Acknowledgements) so I gave it a 4-star. There was no prep team then and the idea of young children killing each other really surprised me. Your Book 2 is still okay (2-star) because I read it a month after Book 1 and I was still reeling from bewilderment. But your Book 3 is unfortunately, a total disappointment. It is supposed to be where the Big \"O\" should happen. However, it fizzled out. There are no stars. There is no fire. Even the character of Katniss is left cold despite her collage of boys, make up, attire and costume. I am also distracted by the way you use the verb \"to materialize\". Good that you only used them thrice: p. 15 \"A hovercraft materializes and a ladder drops down.\" p. 45 \"When I turn, a guard has materialized from one of the rooms at the far end of the corridor.\" p.129 \"When the cabinets are empty, I rise to find that Gale has materialized in my kitchen. I am not an expert on this (as English is not my first language) but, for me, the use of the word is awkward. Here in the Philippines, we don't refer to a person or an object like a material, materializing. We normally refer it to an idea like \"That suggestion will not materialize.\" Hire a good proofreader, I spotted some errors that my English teacher in the elementary school would definitely mark red. One example: pp. 268 \"He grins. \"No. Not unless you want me to alert the rest of the army.\" And oh, please refrain from using confusing names like Flavius and Fluvia. With so many characters in your book, I suggest that you make them totally different from each other. What kind of name is Leeg ? Do you know that in the Philippines, it means \"neck\"? And you even have Leeg 1 and Leeg 2? Also, Flavius, Octavia and Venia (your disgusting prep team) remind me of a female genitalia. Too feminine. Too distracting. My goodness. ...more Spoilers. Many spoilers. Don't read unless you don't care about the books, or have already finished them. Cinna is dead. The first of many disappointments in Mockingjay. As I was frantically rereading the first two in preparation for the third, I realized how much I liked him as a character. Initially, he's the first person in the series you can really like (because when he's introduced, we still don't know Peeta's motives, and Haymitch and Effie are just annoying). And he's consistent. Katniss c Spoilers. Many spoilers. Don't read unless you don't care about the books, or have already finished them. Cinna is dead. The first of many disappointments in Mockingjay. As I was frantically rereading the first two in preparation for the third, I realized how much I liked him as a character. Initially, he's the first person in the series you can really like (because when he's introduced, we still don't know Peeta's motives, and Haymitch and Effie are just annoying). And he's consistent. Katniss can be at odds with everyone else, and Cinna's still by her side, cheering her on. And now he's dead. So is everything he represents. He is the bright side of the Capitol. He is proof that they're not all rotten and evil. He is the face of the light and beauty and wild fashions and everything else that took away some of the graveness of the first two. There is none of that color and sparkle in Mockingjay. It's very bleak and gray. And the battle is not so much external as internal. We must admire Suzanne Collins for the world she created. She had a plan the entire time; you can see that now having finished this one. Even though I was angry that she put everyone back in the arena in book 2, I now see why it had to be. From the beginning, it was never about the Games themselves. Not really. That was just how it all got started. It's really about rebellion, and humanity, and war. I remember my initial surprise before I finished book one when my teacher told me it was a series. How could it be a series? She gets out of the arena, and it's over. But you stop and think. How could it be over? If she simply won, nothing would have been accomplished except for an entertaining tale. Brutality would have raged on, and there would have been no point to the story. It is in ending the brutality that the true storyline emerged. She also crafted an amazing villain. Blood and roses. I found myself having nightmares about President Snow. He gives Voldemort a run for his money. Because in the end, is he really the villain? Or just the other side? Mockingjay was an excellent conclusion. And I feel it ended the way the series should have. But it was so sad, because all the side characters we love die. This is no happily ever after series. I know that. But I still wanted it to be. I felt the same when I finished Harry Potter 7. It was how it should have ended, but everyone died. Well, everyone we really cared about anyway. I wanted Mockingjay to be like City of Glass: even in its gravest moments, still fairly light and upbeat, with a lot of humor, and everyone walks away mostly unscathed, with the subtraction of one minor character, to make you a little sad, but not ruin the series. Because I'll never be able to read another passage about Cinna, and not feel sad, because ultimately, he ends up dead. Along with Finnick, Madge, even Portia (Peeta's stylist) and so many other characters I loved. Including Prim. This was the downfall. She dies. There is no point in the series if she dies. Because she was the reason why everything happened to begin with. She could of died in book one, and then we would never have had the series. If she'd just gone off to the Games, there would have never been a rebellion, and everyone would probably have been okay. And Katniss... she's ruined. In The Hunger Games, she was strong, spirited and a fighter. In Catching Fire, she was confused and weaker, but still strong, as she should have been. In Mockingjay, she was soulless, and had no desire to live at all really. And that makes it boring. If she has no passion, then there's really no point. I wasn't satisfied with the climax either. Katniss totally pulls a Bella Swan on us: blacks out to wake up in a hospital bed, to find that everything's essentially resolved. Where's the satisfaction in that? Lame. I expected more from Suzanne Collins. Peeta and Katniss end up together, but even that's not as good as it should have been, because Peeta's so messed up from everything the Capitol's done from him, and Gale... just gives up. Doesn't even put up a fight. And it felt like Katniss should have cared more. But she's really indifferent. Just like she is about everything else. She doens't grieve for anyone in the story, except for herself, really. She never gives a second thought for Cinna and Finnick, and hardly cried when Prim dies. For someone who loves her little sister so dearly, she sure doesn't show it. But in the end, when you look at the book and think about it, it accomplished what was neccisary to end the series. And the message was driven home, and I felt like everyone got it. Killing messes you up. Even if it's you're last chance, you will always look back and feel haunted by it. As you should be. Taking the life of another human... and to have kids killing eachother off for sport... even the winner has lost some of themselves. To summarize this extremely long review, Mockingjay was an excellent book, did everything it should have, and ended an amazing series with a bang. Sure, the bang killed everybody, but it was a bang nonetheless. I just didn't like it, that's all. ...more LOVED this the second time around! Can't believe I used to think this was the worst of the series... I think this was just as good if not better now. There was so much raw emotion and just.. Ah.. I cried along with Katniss while she had to face just sorrow after destruction over and over again. This story is so violent and bleak but I love it. I love that there's still some small rays of hope present. I'm also very content with the way the trilogy ended now (where as the first time I read this t LOVED this the second time around! Can't believe I used to think this was the worst of the series... I think this was just as good if not better now. There was so much raw emotion and just.. Ah.. I cried along with Katniss while she had to face just sorrow after destruction over and over again. This story is so violent and bleak but I love it. I love that there's still some small rays of hope present. I'm also very content with the way the trilogy ended now (where as the first time I read this three years ago I was very unhappy with the way a few things ended..) super good book. Can't wait to see the second part of the movie now! ...more Beware of spoilers! What the hell was Mockingjay ? It was dreadful. I thought Katniss was not fighting as much as she should have been. Yes, her role is very important and she is the leader of the rebellion. However, most of the fighting was done by either Gale, Finnick, and others. Katniss was either in the hospital or just being weak, whining about almost everything. And I know that Katniss is strong and intelligent and a fighter, so why was it not super epic? Snow's death was not as epic as I t Beware of spoilers! What the hell was Mockingjay ? It was dreadful. I thought Katniss was not fighting as much as she should have been. Yes, her role is very important and she is the leader of the rebellion. However, most of the fighting was done by either Gale, Finnick, and others. Katniss was either in the hospital or just being weak, whining about almost everything. And I know that Katniss is strong and intelligent and a fighter, so why was it not super epic? Snow's death was not as epic as I thought it would be. The whole point was to destroy his evil reign on the districts and start a new revolution. Yet, he died while in a crowd or died coughing. Peeta was not in the book either. He only came in the ending. Gale was simply emotionless throughout the whole book, but I shouldn't be surprised about that. He never really amused me. I don't really care that Prim died. Her character didn't have a big impact on me. I don't even understand why Collins felt the need to kill her. What was the point? Everything was so rushed and unexplained. It was like, \"Oh, I created such an awesome opening to my series. I'm just going to ruin it by this last one. I'm going to give up.\" In a nutshell: ...more ALL SPOILERS Chapter 1 A memorial of sorts. Some final books in trilogies spend time carefully recounting what happened in prior books. Some jump right into the action. Mockingjay has ash and despair and the end of a life our heroine once had. It does not feel like a stirring call to arms; it does not feel like a revolution is about to happen. It feels like the end of things, it feels like death. This is the beginning of the book. Chapter 2 The brave rebels of District 13. A humorless communist stat ALL SPOILERS Chapter 1 A memorial of sorts. Some final books in trilogies spend time carefully recounting what happened in prior books. Some jump right into the action. Mockingjay has ash and despair and the end of a life our heroine once had. It does not feel like a stirring call to arms; it does not feel like a revolution is about to happen. It feels like the end of things, it feels like death. This is the beginning of the book. Chapter 2 The brave rebels of District 13. A humorless communist state; a society dedicated to both subsistence living and to revolution. The feeling is gray. It is easy to admire these revolutionaries, but they are hard to love and impossible to trust. A televised appearance by Peeta: he is himself and he is not-himself. How will his story end? Brave Peeta! Poor Peeta. Chapter 3 Katniss' list of demands. When she shouts them out: goose bumps. Chapter 4 Katniss' make-up artists... tortured by District 13. An upsetting chapter, but I feel oddly proud of Collins for writing it. This novel is for young adults; young adults should understand the basic insanity of torture - they should despise it. Even more importantly, they should recognize that all sides have humans on them, that the world and its wars are seldom truly composed of cartoon heroes and villains. Thinking in terms of black and white rejects complexity, and in the end, it rejects the idea of being human. The world of the Hunger Games is made up in shades of gray. Chapter 5 A mass-marketed Mockingjay; the media-packaging of a revolutionary. Collins' humor is dry and dark. I love the ease in which she extends her series' critique of reality tv and pre-packaged violence as entertainment into a deconstruction of how we create our heroes, how a person can be transformed into a symbol, how we can build and televise our revolutions. Every message is packed with potential meaning and so every message must count. Joan of Arc becomes an action figure, a toy for potential revolutionary children everywhere. Chapter 6 \"Frankly, our ancestors don't seem much to brag about. I mean, look at the state they left us in, with the wars and the broken planet. Clearly, they didn't care about what would happen to the people who came after them.\" Chapter 7 District 8 and the destruction of a hospital. I did not expect any punches to be pulled, so the horrifying slaughter did not pack a profound emotional punch for me. What I noticed most of all was Collins' writing style. It has received a good deal of critique for being choppy - all cut-off little sentences and thoughts... simple and unsophisticated. I think the style is well-suited for the narrator - a parallel to her own way of thinking, acting, reacting, strong hard thoughts like bullets and fast angry retreats and aggressive jumps into action. The style removes the possibility of pathos and bathos. At the end, Katniss gives a ringing speech full of passion and fury and courage, a spontaneous and angrily honest rallying cry that leaps out of her... and immediately afterwards, someone yells \"Cut! That's a wrap\". A perfect television moment. End of chapter. Chapter 8 Back at District 13; the District 8 aftermath. If there is one thing about this series that i find annoying (besides Gale - although that is not 100%, the annoyance comes and goes), it is Katniss' perpetual cluelessness. I guess it is appropriate for the character, it fits her psychology... but sometimes it just feels a wee bit manipulative, a too-obvious way to enable reader unease. But is anyone really as uneasy - or as clueless - as Katniss can be? Of course her actions in District 8 would be seen as a triumph, especially as propaganda. Duh, Katniss, duh! I have to remind myself that she is essentially a character who is in an almost continual state of shock - which does go a long way in explaining her reactions. Chapter 9 A return to District 12. A beautiful song: sad, eerie, haunting. And apparently written by Collins for the novel. Good job on that. A third televised appearance by Peeta, where he is clearly trying to communicate directly to District 13. A smash cut, literally. Still trying to process exactly what is happening here... I love that feeling. Chapter 10 The bombing of District 13. The most striking thing in this chapter for me is the idea of Peeta as a kind of Damsel in Distress ... and how that does not actually show him to be weak. It is a delicate juggling act, to be able to portray someone as a victim without diminishing their strength. Peeta is the very portrait of A Good Boy and yet there is nothing cloying about him to me. Of our four central protagonists, it is Haymitch and Saint Peeta who have the most shading and ambiguity in their characterizations. Chapter 11 All About Buttercup. Ah, Buttercup. I love cats and am tempted to put in some goofy cat gif or lolcat right now - but don't worry, I'll resist that urge. Chapter 12 Above ground in District 13 and more propaganda. The various startling revelations by Finnick startle everyone but Katniss and the reader. And again Collins enlarges her ideas around media manipulation and reality tv, this time to include the emotional tell-all, the public airing of dirty laundry... now used as a kind of weapon, a distraction from the truly important things that are happening (in this case, the rescue of prisoners). Media slaves and reality tv addicts are glued to the set while a hidden agenda successfully accomplishes its own goals. Smash cut. Chapter 13 Mind Control & Peeta. The character Delly is such a soft, sweet, gentle contrast to Katniss. Hard to see how they come from the same place. Not sure if this is Collins' fault - and she's a charming character - but something just isn't working for me. Although the character is effectively deployed. Another hesitation on my part: the almost obsessively personalized nature of President Snow's attacks on Katniss (first the flower drop and now the Peeta package). I'm finding some resistance to buying this. Still: no real complaint. Chapter 14 District 2. This chapter gave me some space to contemplate the series' love triangle - something I'm often loathe to do, since Gale can be rather cardboard. But the triangle does work for me, despite my basic disinterest in it. Collins is smart in keeping Peeta and Gale almost continuously separate, since in many ways they function as the light and dark spirits in her life, directions she could choose to go and moral compromises she can choose to make. I also appreciate this chapter because some real punch is added to Gale's characterization. It was previously shown that he has a ruthlessly brutal - even draconian - way of looking at how he can win this revolution... as if hatred of his oppressors has stripped him of some basic decency. Previously, these were hints; Chapter 14 makes it clear that this is his essence. He has suddenly become a lot more interesting. Chapter 15 \"It just goes around and around, and who wins? Not us.\" Chapter 16 \"I also think you're a little hard to swallow. With your tacky romantic drama and your defender-of-the-helpless act. Only it isn't an act, which makes you more unbearable.\" Chapter 17 Training for Katniss and Johanna; an uncomfortable meal with our assembled cast. Peeta returns to the group, much transformed. This new Peeta is certainly not likable, but I like what I'm seeing in terms of characterization. Although his transformation is due to his torture and brainwashing, little that he says is actually untrue... his snarling commentary on his misuse by Katniss is based in truth, in a kind of unconscious recognition of how his love and altruism were manipulated, made use of when convenient or necessary. The changes wrought on Peeta - and his cynical recognition of his misuse - have made him a dynamic character. Particularly in comparison with the more static Gale and Katniss. Gale has had his inner self revealed, but this amounts to more of an increased awareness of what he is actually capable of doing to achieve his goals. Katniss has grown throughout the series, but has essentially remained the same tough, angry, embittered outsider from the very first pages of the first novel - she has grown but her outlook has not truly changed. As layers of ignorance have been peeled away, feelings have intensified - but there has been no transformation of persona. If anything, she has become more herself . Chapter 18 To invade the Capitol... and so the battleground will be its own form of Hunger Game. This is a rather ingenious way to continue the series' bloody central spectacle. In their stark differences on physical, emotional, strategic, political, and character-based levels, the varying depictions of the Hunger Games are surprisingly dynamic. I appreciate the refusal to provide the same sorts of Battle Royale thrills to the reader. Each game is uglier than the last and each game widens the arena. Is the whole world a Hunger Game? Chapter 19 Peeta joins the fray. Two things in particular stood out for me. First, the idea of war as a kind of massive media production - an idea that i first considered when watching Full Metal Jacket, but one that is the standard now for wars everywhere. Cressida & company are about as 'imbedded' as a journalist can be. The second: a game of Real and Not Real. That was so sad, so moving. Chapter 20 Things move shitward and yet forward. I don't feel the pulse of excitement that I did in the prior Hunger Games; instead I have a sickeningly tense feeling of unease and dread. Chapter 21 Holed up in a hole and then down into the sewers. What struck me the most was our terrible white-haired antagonist President Snow's broadcast image being suddenly replaced by our terrible white-haired revolutionary leader President Coin's image. Two sides of the same horrible coin? The urge to dominate and to keep control is pervasive in so many of our leaders. Chapter 22 Out of the sewers and the death of Finnick. There are mixed reactions about Collins' use of a present-tense first-person narrator. I can think of no better chapter than this one to illustrate just how effective this style is in conveying a you-are-there-now feeling that makes the action in these novels feel truly tense and nerve-wracking and real . It is also a ruthlessly efficient way to show Katniss' (and maybe the reader's) inability to let things like the deaths of her comrades and her cold-blooded but probably necessary murder of an innocent bystander to truly sink in and affect her. To let them sink in - at this time and place - is to die. Chap-- WE INTERRUPT OUR REGULARLY SCHEDULED PROGRAMMING TO ANNOUNCE : i just watched The Hunger Games! enjoyable and moving - a very good adaptation. you should go see it. now let me be as gay as possible and point out the times i teared up: the first, during the reaping with Katniss & Prim; the second, during Katniss' goodbyes to her family; the third, the death of Rue and a quickly squelched uprising. three instances of shivery fanboy type chills: Katniss & Peeta in flames during their ceremonial entrance; the first sight of the Hunger Game players on the field; Katniss deliberately turning to the cameras as she counts \"Two\" before (not) eating the berries. most striking sequence: the blurry, horrific, extremely upsetting and brilliantly directed scene when the players begin immediately attacking and slaughtering each other - that will stick with me. now i wonder how many days will pass until i see it again? Chapter 24 Slaughter in the streets and the death of Prim. It is hard to express how devastating this chapter was to read. Earlier in the novel, I expected something along the lines of the attack on the hospital - it was necessary to the narrative. Later, Gale's vicious attack on the Nut took me aback, although I think I was focused more on what this meant about Gale's character rather than what Collins was actually trying to communicate to her readers. Well, this chapter makes her message very clear: blindly choose death as a path to freedom... and death will become your master. The terrifying confusion, the massacre of innocents, the rebels dealing out a justice that is as repugnant as anything from the Capitol... all perfectly accomplished. The worst that can happen, happens; it is as if Collins imagined what a wish-fulfillment version of her novel would look like and deliberately chose to do the exact opposite. I've seldom seldom read a sequence that so completely illustrates the berserk pointlessness and basic, mind-numbing evilness of war... and somehow this is contained within a young adult novel. Amazing. Chapter 25 A conversation with President Snow. As expected, Coin is shown to be as savage and evil as Snow. Expediency can be an evil. Protecting the status quo can be an evil; if your goal is to create change and take down that status quo, no matter what the cost... that also can be an evil. Snow will die; Coin must die too. And yet it is hard to get excited about another death to come. Chapter 26 A new Hunger Game is proposed. Collins succinctly illustrates that to ignore the past is to repeat it. Chapter 27 \"I no longer feel any allegiance to these monsters called human beings, despise being one myself. I think that Peeta was onto something about us destroying one another and letting some decent species take over. Because something is significantly wrong with a creature that sacrifices its children's lives to settle its differences. You can spin it anyway you like. Snow thought the Hunger Games were an efficient means of control. Coin thought the parachutes would expedite the war. But in the end, who does it benefit? No one. The truth is, it benefits no one to live in a world where these things happen.\" epilogue This series is many things, including a pointed critique of class inequity, the media, and popular engagement with barbarous games - as well as a thoughtfully rendered contemplation of the power of memory. But with Mockingjay, the series also joins the ranks of anti-war classics. Right now I'm just relieved that it ends on a positive note and not in despair, and that life is chosen. A small, sad, and very intimate bit of life - but life nonetheless. ...more Be warned. Spoilers abound . As well as Major Ramblings. *salute* Odd tidbit of information: Recently, I had a teeny, tiny silverfish (I almost typed catfish , which would have made this story much more interesting) that just chilled on my bathroom floor for days, in the same spot . It had to have been at least three or four days. I know it was alive because it would half heartedly scurry out of the way of much-too-close feet, a stark contrast to the usual lively and feisty personality of the creat Be warned. Spoilers abound . As well as Major Ramblings. *salute* Odd tidbit of information: Recently, I had a teeny, tiny silverfish (I almost typed catfish , which would have made this story much more interesting) that just chilled on my bathroom floor for days, in the same spot . It had to have been at least three or four days. I know it was alive because it would half heartedly scurry out of the way of much-too-close feet, a stark contrast to the usual lively and feisty personality of the creature. Other than those few movements, it would just lie there. Like it had given up. I found myself being careful not to step on it. The poor thing just seemed so pathetic and zoned-out. So, I started referring to it lovingly as Katniss. The similar sound might explain why I nearly typed catfish, though a catfish lying on the bathroom floor would be very odd indeed. Come to think of it, it would be even stranger if the actual Katniss had been lying on the floor in my bathroom. Although, it wouldn't be unusual behavior for her, based upon this book. The little silverfish eerily reminded me of how Katniss acted in Mockingjay. Defeated. Well, I tried to allow her to live out her short life in peace and let her continue stumbling incoherently out of the way only when imminent danger reared it's ugly head, but danger's head turned out to be the not-so-ugly face of my dog , who gobbled up poor little Katniss and her six nearly defective legs. So the moral of the story is? Uh.... Don't give up or you could be killed by an adorable fluffy giant monster? Anyway, onto more of my ramblings... Do not read this review if you have not yet read Mockingjay. Pretty much any spoiler you could imagine will be here . I pre ordered this book and got it the day of release. I started it right away but halfway through the book, I put it down and didn't pick up back up for a couple months. I do this sometimes, but I have NEVER done it with a series that I love so much, never even considered it. I just found myself so uninterested. I almost wish I hadn't picked it back up. My imaginings of what happened were so much better and more entertaining, more emotional. I love this series and the world so much. I love the main characters and the side characters, especially Finnick. But literally 8 of them die over a matter of pages. And I knew they would, but I wanted more. I wanted flowers and a song for them, like what she did for Rue. Oftentimes, I would be like \"Wait. What happened to so-and-so?\" Then, I would flip back through and try to figure out when they died or disappeared. There were a few tear jerker moments though. They were mainly towards the beginning of the book and most of them had to do with memories of the past, like reliving the greatest hits of Katniss. One thing that really bothered me: What's with all the passing out? It seemed like every few chapters, Katniss was waking up in medical or having long fits of mindlessness. It just didn't seem like she was there for a majority of important plot lines. \u00a0She would just have a conversation with someone like \"Oh, I'm confused. What happened?\" And then they would narrate it to her. Even the biggest battle at the end. Oh yeah, by the way. President Snow is in custody. Oh, you're cleared of all charges. It's all over. Go home. And the biggest \"What the hell?\" moment for me was when Katniss actually voted in favor of having another Hunger Games? I'm sorry, what? We are supposed to believe that this girl who has fought in and despised the Hunger Games twice, would do this? The girl who had almost everything taken from her because of the them. The girl who volunteered to go to die in place of her little sister would willingly condemn more little girls to death within the Games, and do it in honor of her sister? Have more Hunger Games- for Prim ? Huh? Did I miss something? I've heard people say that it was to trick Coin, so that she could kill her later, but that doesn't make much sense either. If Coin sees that now she's willing to kill children when she never would have before, wouldn't that make her more suspicious? And most of all - if that was her big plan, we needed to see her mind reeling and see the wheels turning like we usually do. Hear the plan unravel inside her head. I, personally, desperately needed that moment of pure clarity, where Katniss figures out what her purpose in all of this was. But no, all we got was: kill all those kids, for Prim . That leads me to another point. I wanted to know more at the end. I wanted some kind of showdown between Katniss and Coin where Coin admits her guilt. How was she proven guilty? Who else was involved? How was Katniss cleared? What were Coin's real motives? Did Peeta know about Coin somehow? Is that why he told her not to trust them and to \"find out what was going on\"? Did Coin stage any of the other attacks? And did Katniss even care to ask any of these questions? I kept expecting Katniss to have some revealing AHA moment where she gives an inspired speech at the end before or after she executes Coin, or Snow, or whoever the hell she wanted to execute. As long as she did it with flare. I wanted true conviction. I expected her to be courageous and say \"Hold me accountable if you want, but they did this.\" Or just do something brave. Not run away and try to commit suicide. I wanted the ending to feel the way it felt when she yelled, \"If we burn. You burn with us.\" Then there's the issue of the so called love triangle , that falls completely on it's face and gets laughed at by all the rebels. Well maybe not laughed at, but the rebels are always bringing up and commenting on this love triangle that, at least in this book, we don't see much evidence even exists. Katniss never chooses Peeta. Gale just stops showing up, even after Katniss had the most traumatic experience of her life. He doesn't call. He doesn't write. And the confession of love for either one of them pretty much never happens, except for in a passing remark at the end. \u00a0I do think she should have ended up with Peeta. I love Peeta and I found the tortured Peeta infinitely interesting. There is so much that could have been done with that. I wanted so much for her to uncuff Peeta and for him to just go crazy, like he was about to hurt her but instead kiss her with a frenzied passion, as if there was nothing he wanted or needed more in the world than to be close to her . Nothing like that ever happened. That's what I wanted but didn't get from this book. Passion. It wasn't there; Katniss didn't have it for Peeta or Gale. It just wasn't in Katniss this time around. The passion wasn't there for me either. I wanted to care. I wanted so badly to care. The only person I really didn't want to die was Peeta. But even that faded after all the talk about killing him, which Katniss was completely fine with? \u00a0At the end, I couldn't care less who died. I didn't really even care that Prim died and I should have cared. I almost think it would have been more poetic for Katniss to die for Prim at the end. At least give us some real raw intensity , but all we got was indifference. Katniss was indifferent to who she ended up with, what happened with the Capital or the Games, and even to her own children. I wanted some emotion. She could have at least said, \" Her life ended when they spoke her name, but now a new life begins with that name. Primrose .\" With Peeta and Katniss standing over their new little bundle of joy daughter that they named for her sister. Or some gushing love story about how Katniss and Peeta finally got together. Always . Or for her to be by herself, leading a life of meaning. \u00a0I find it hard to believe she would just give up and not want to be involved in her own life or other people lives and just fade away. Or even Katniss and Gale, if the love was really there. But No. He just fades into the background. Just gone. No poetic or heroic ending. Yes, life can be like that. But this is fiction! Fiction should make you feel powerful , like you can rise against all in your path. Like anything is possible. I did feel like anything could happen, but unfortunately I just didn't care what that particular \"anything\" might be. My biggest gripe is not necessarily with the events that happened but with the lack of conviction that they happened with, in addition to the fact that I didn't feel any of the closure I was hoping for . Not with Peeta or Gale, or President Snow, or Prim or Katniss's Mom, or the Capital and worst of all not with the Hunger Games. I think that the only closure I felt was with the cat, Buttercup . I definitely would have liked a happily ever after, but I can't say I was expecting one. But whatever happened I wanted to see the ever after. Watch it unfold. Feel the emotions, whether good or bad. Live it all with Katniss. But I didn't. I'm sure some people did but not me, unfortunately. I felt as detached as she did. Out of tremendous respect for the series and characters, I couldn't bring myself to give less than four stars. Even though this was more of a three for me. I just loved the first two sooo much. I just can't stand to admit that this book was pretty much a disaster for me. \u00a0Not when I think about Peeta. Ahhhh. Peeta. I also feel like I gained a lot from reading this. Even though I don't agree with some of what Collins did with the characters, I still feel like this was a valuable read. Learning from what you read is one the most important aspects of the reading experience. I certainly learned a lot from this book, even if it was moreso about myself than about the characters in the book. That's what I strive for with reading. Sure, I want to be entertained, but that isn't always my only corcern. Sometimes, I want to be changed and this book and the entire series changed me. And it did actually gave me a lot to think about, which is usually how I judge books. \u00a0Sometimes, I'm satisfied in the dissatisfaction. I like having things to ponder. However, I would have liked a little more closure. So despite my issues with this particular book, I still love the Hunger Games and Suzanne Collins . Just in a little bit of a jaded kind of way. ...more", "Title": "Mockingjay"},
