{"Comments": "*Kat looks at <+++>The Forgotten Garden</+++>* *Kat looks at the beckoning stack of other books to read* *Kat looks back at the first 33 pages of <+++>The Forgotten Garden</+++>* *Kat groans* So basically there's this woman. Let's call her Stupidhead because I couldn't care enough to remember her name. She finds out on her 21st birthday party that her loving, adoring family is not her biological family. They found her as a very small child and cared enough to take her in and give her a wonderful home full of people who l *Kat looks at The Forgotten Garden* *Kat looks at the beckoning stack of other books to read* *Kat looks back at the first 33 pages of The Forgotten Garden* *Kat groans* So basically there's this woman. Let's call her Stupidhead because I couldn't care enough to remember her name. She finds out on her 21st birthday party that her loving, adoring family is not her biological family. They found her as a very small child and cared enough to take her in and give her a wonderful home full of people who loved and adored her. So she breaks up with her perfect fiancee,<---M> marries an asshole</---M>, has a child, is a terrible mother, distances herself from everyone who ever loved her, screws up her child's life so that her child screws up HER daughters life...<---F> Then I didn't read on</---F>. I didn't read on because this book is based on an idiot, and I have a short fuse when it comes to idiots. Let's just say that I don't suffer them lightly. I'm sure that this book, if I read further, might turn out to be a fantastic and beautifully touching story with a great mystery that it's currently hinting at like a half-dressed male stripper with sad eyes and a g-string whose elastic is so flexible it no longer snaps. However, right now it's just a jumpy, painfully boring mess. I know it's probably realistic, after all there's plenty of idiots in the world. However, since I have so many life sized idiots on-call whenever I need them, I don't feel I have to read a book about them. Life is too short. ...more Aussie author <---A>Kate Morton</---A> deftly managed to push nearly every one of my reading buttons with her lovely book, The Forgotten Garden : 1. Not so young woman with a haunted past - check 2. Not-so-fairy-Grandmother who bequeaths said woman an old house with a mysterious history - check 3. Said old, mysterious house is actually a cottage on the wild Cornish coast, complete with a hidden garden, a handsome neighbor, and the faintest suggestion of the supernatural - check 4. Said woman embarks on a quest to Aussie author Kate Morton deftly managed to push nearly every one of my reading buttons with her lovely book, The Forgotten Garden : 1. Not so young woman with a haunted past - check 2. Not-so-fairy-Grandmother who bequeaths said woman an old house with a mysterious history - check 3. Said old, mysterious house is actually a cottage on the wild Cornish coast, complete with a hidden garden, a handsome neighbor, and the faintest suggestion of the supernatural - check 4. Said woman embarks on a quest to uncover her family secrets and heal thyself --- game, set, match Each chapter of The Forgotten Garden is told through the voices of 3 women: Eliza, Nell and <---C>Cassandra</---C>, and covers several different time periods throughout the 20th and early 21st century. We get to know Eliza, Nell and Cassandra intimately, and through them other characters who play a large part in the unfolding story: Rose, Nathaniel, Adeline, and Linus. Not a book to put down for a few days and pick back up later, The Forgotten Garden needs to be savored in long stretches so that the reader can fully connect to each character and their backstory. The continually jumping characters and time periods can get confusing and distracting at times , which prevents me from rating this story with a solid 5 stars. Otherwise, this tale is tailor made for my reading tastes, with sentences, like the following, that speak to me: \"She unlocked the front door and went inside. The house seemed to be listening, waiting to see what she would do. She ran her hand lightly along the inside wall. \"My house,\" she said softly, \"This is my house.\" The words pressed dully into the walls. How strange it was, how unexpected. She wandered through the kitchen, past the spinning wheel and into the little sitting room at the very front. The house felt different now that she was alone. Familiar somehow, like a place she'd visited long ago.\" Simple and comforting. My kind of book. ...more While this is ostensibly a novel of secrets spanning four generations, most of the \u201csecrets\u201d are fairly obvious. I kept waiting for the blow to fall \u2014 murder? incest? buried treasure?? Alas, no. The narration shifts among different-but-related storylines, all of which, to be fair, I found intriguing: in 1913 a child who can\u2019t remember her name turns up on an Australian dock carrying a book of fairy tales; in 2005 her granddaughter tries to uncover the mysteries of a hidden garden in Cornwall; in While this is ostensibly a novel of secrets spanning four generations, most of the \u201csecrets\u201d are fairly obvious. I kept waiting for the blow to fall \u2014 murder? incest? buried treasure?? Alas, no. The narration shifts among different-but-related storylines, all of which, to be fair, I found intriguing: in 1913 a child who can\u2019t remember her name turns up on an Australian dock carrying a book of fairy tales; in 2005 her granddaughter tries to uncover the mysteries of a hidden garden in Cornwall; in Victorian England a wealthy young woman flees her family . . . only to have her orphaned daughter found and taken back to them. In each case I wanted to find out the whole story, but I figured they\u2019d tie together with more punch. Where were the dark secrets-within-a-secret? Where were the gasp-aloud revelations? I know we\u2019re not always going to get Darth Vader breathing, \u201cI am your father!\u201d but a few big shockers would have been nice. Maybe if the novel were presented a bit differently \u2014 as a family saga, not some mysterious tale \u2014 then I wouldn\u2019t have been disappointed. It\u2019s really a story of several women and the far-reaching effects their decisions have on their own and each other\u2019s lives. Woven throughout are fairy tales by the mysterious Authoress; it's hard to miss their thematic, at times allegorical, significance. They connect the generations through themes of foundlings, sacrifice, and the dangers of wanting what you can\u2019t have. If you like fairy tales, this would be a plus, but I could have done without them. Kate Morton is a bit heavy-handed in her characterizations, and, as with The House at Riverton , there\u2019s a bizarrely devoted sister-like relationship that involves extreme self-sacrifice in one of the parties and oblivious selfishness in the other. While many relationships are like this (<---B>for instance, I am self-sacrificing and my siblings are oblivious</---B>), they're not fun to read about. And with only one exception, the really nefarious characters \u2014 they\u2019re like villains out of a Dickens novel but without the flair \u2014 sort of fade away. I wanted the satisfaction of seeing them fall off a cliff and get eaten by sharks, or be impaled on pointy fence railings, not just die lonely or disappear from the story. I would have liked less background description and more resolution. ...more Sometimes when people keep recommending a book, you should listen and read that book. The Forgotten Garden is such a book. You finally read it and end up wondering why in the world you waited so long. Kate Morton provides the intricate layering of different times and places in a masterful manner, gifting the reader with a story that captures the imagination and heart completely. Nell, as the lost child, is the pivotal character around which all mysteries and actions revolve. A tale that begins i Sometimes when people keep recommending a book, you should listen and read that book. The Forgotten Garden is such a book. You finally read it and end up wondering why in the world you waited so long. Kate Morton provides the intricate layering of different times and places in a masterful manner, gifting the reader with a story that captures the imagination and heart completely. Nell, as the lost child, is the pivotal character around which all mysteries and actions revolve. A tale that begins in England and travels across the many miles to Australia, comes home again to England to undo over a hundred years of secrets. Like the entwining vines of the garden, the story twists and turns, making the path seem impassable, but tenacity is rewarded with clarity. ...more I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It is an easy read, and yet gave me room to pause as I stopped to think. I like books that let me do that without pounding me into a pulp on the way. I suspect the book might appeal more to women then men and it would be a good choice of several of the reading circles I know. My only regret: that Eliza's book of fairy tales isn't a real book. Things I like knowing before I buy a book: No profanity that I noticed. Respectful story-specific reference to sex. Emotiona I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It is an easy read, and yet gave me room to pause as I stopped to think. I like books that let me do that without pounding me into a pulp on the way. I suspect the book might appeal more to women then men and it would be a good choice of several of the reading circles I know. My only regret: that Eliza's book of fairy tales isn't a real book. Things I like knowing before I buy a book: No profanity that I noticed. Respectful story-specific reference to sex. Emotional issues dealt with tastefully and healthily. I will read more by this author. ...more If you are looking for a good story to escape into for a while, look no further. The Forgotten Garden weaves a tangled tale of family secrets, kept hidden for generations. Kate Morton does an excellent job of creating mystery and intrigue that spans generations as one woman searches for her true identity and finds her family in an unexpected place along the way. Good Stuff! I became quite enchanted with this tale and really loved the interwoven bewitching dark fairy tales that added more dimensions to this novel. It was a mystery that had me second guessing myself several times. Every time I had it all figured out a new chink was added to the chain of clues. I think the style of writing was superbly done, not often can I say that. I loved the way each chapter transported me to another time and a different POV spanning the generation of women in the family. I did fi I became quite enchanted with this tale and really loved the interwoven bewitching dark fairy tales that added more dimensions to this novel. It was a mystery that had me second guessing myself several times. Every time I had it all figured out a new chink was added to the chain of clues. I think the style of writing was superbly done, not often can I say that. I loved the way each chapter transported me to another time and a different POV spanning the generation of women in the family. I did find new evil villains I wanted to see crushed and burned. Such evil greedy self righteous ploys they created for each had their own agendas and were so stone cold hearted. I honestly would have liked to have read more about Cassandra's new beginnings and how her life changed after revealing so many lost secrets \"just a touch more closer\". That is why I would hesitate on giving it 5 stars. I was a little put out that I didn't get more of her story. I do think the ending encounter was endearing and made me feel that peace was restored for Nell and lovely Eliza, the most unselfish characters I have ever read about. Made me really wish to have or create an unspoiled secret garden with roots to my own past. Wouldn't we all want a place of solitude to get away from it all and sit with a book while ancestral phantoms sprinkle their fairy dust-like magic into our lives to ease the daily stresses and reassure us we are loved? Really made take a look into the past generations of women in my family and wonder at all the impressions they have naturally left upon me to share with my children and their children's children. Time to journal more that's for sure, cause I have a broken green thumb! ...more I am breaking silence here to gush about Kate Morton. Her fiction is carefully researched and crafted, and the writing itself is luminous. The Forgotten Garden unwinds like a fairy tale, slowly curling off the spool where ambiguously benefic crones have wound it. We jump back and forth between present-day Australia where a young woman mourns the mysterious grandmother who inspired her as a child, to England at the turn of the last century where an affluent family in a small coastal town conspire I am breaking silence here to gush about Kate Morton. Her fiction is carefully researched and crafted, and the writing itself is luminous. The Forgotten Garden unwinds like a fairy tale, slowly curling off the spool where ambiguously benefic crones have wound it. We jump back and forth between present-day Australia where a young woman mourns the mysterious grandmother who inspired her as a child, to England at the turn of the last century where an affluent family in a small coastal town conspires to conceive, and then bury, a tremendous secret, one whose shock waves will reach forward across generations and oceans. At the heart of the England plot we find a friendship between two apparent opposites - one, the sheltered, sickly daughter of the rich family; one, the free-spirited adventurous tomboy - and a secret that rends them apart even as it knits them together. And at the heart of that , we find one of Morton's real strengths : her ability to capture the often bitter logic of human behavior, the ways in which trust and resentment weave together to form a hobbling grown-up-ed-ness rich with the sting of childhood betrayals. Another of Morton's gifts is especially prevalent in this novel : her intense focus on writers and the imaginary worlds they sculpt from words, especially writers of children's stories. Children's stories, this novel knows, hold their own ancient wisdoms about responsibility, trust and betrayal, and their truths - while far from palatable - are far preferable to the gossamer fables adults tell each other and themselves to make life liveable. Morton alternates between narrative chapters about present-day Australia and early-twentieth-century England, punctuated with insertions of fairy tales from a magical book within the book. As the story unravels, the reader begins to see traces of the real-life narrative in the images and metaphors of the fairy stories. And, at the end of the novel, it is up to the reader to determine whether the reverse is not true, as well - the eruption of fairy-tale logic within the stolid cadre of real life. I can't say much more about the plot without giving it away. It is a brilliantly structured and performed novel, one I could not put down (to clarify : I began the novel at the airport in Louisiana on my way to France. I finished it as the plane touched down in Paris. A perfect fit for the \"life is too short, you can sleep when you're dead\" school of thought). ...more ***Added Later: My summary of this book would have to be this: it is an oddly-plotted book about very stupid people written in lovely language. But oh, the idiot characters. Honestly. Why would Nell be such a twitty jerk to her fiance and adoptive family? Why on earth would Eliza act as she did? Sorry; don't buy it. ----------------------- Figured out what \"happened\" (the mystery of the little girl on the boat) earlier on and scanned much of the rest. Didn't find the characters' behavior believable. ***Added Later: My summary of this book would have to be this: it is an oddly-plotted book about very stupid people written in lovely language. But oh, the idiot characters. Honestly. Why would Nell be such a twitty jerk to her fiance and adoptive family? Why on earth would Eliza act as she did? Sorry; don't buy it. ----------------------- Figured out what \"happened\" (the mystery of the little girl on the boat) earlier on and scanned much of the rest. Didn't find the characters' behavior believable. Why would supposedly strong women (that's how the characters were drawn) do absurd things that were not in character? Nice idea with movement through generations, but . . . -Didn't believe Nell would behave as she did toward \"adoptive\" family--and supposedly beloved fiance--when told truth about how she came into family. Doesn't click at all. -Didn't believe Eliza would do what she did with the contingencies laid upon her--and even if she had, what's the point in staying, walled away from everyone, no contact with anyone--found this absurd. She seemed a sane and strong character up until then. -The romance tacked on for current-day character (such an uninteresting character that I can't recall her name) at end felt rather de riguer. Don't believe that, either. -Only one woman in the bunch could feel life solid and worthwhile without a man or child or both, but no one was happy even if got what they wanted or thought they wanted. Why do so many stories about women have all this jealousy and the world view that there is one pie and if one woman gets a piece (happy life) some other woman will therefore lose out? Found this annoying. Also annoyed on behalf of FHBurnette and her Secret Garden. That wasn't homage, that was a ripoff. ...more A multi-generational mystery that reveals itself bit by haunting bit, about three women: - Eliza, born in the late 1800s, who is born into poverty in London, to a young woman who had run away from her upper crust home for reasons that become clear later in the story, and who is found and pulled back into her wealthy family's embrace (or maybe it's their tentacles). - Nell, born in 1909, who is found sitting on her suitcase on an Australian ship dock in 1913, adamantly refusing to say where she ca A multi-generational mystery that reveals itself bit by haunting bit, about three women: - Eliza, born in the late 1800s, who is born into poverty in London, to a young woman who had run away from her upper crust home for reasons that become clear later in the story, and who is found and pulled back into her wealthy family's embrace (or maybe it's their tentacles). - Nell, born in 1909, who is found sitting on her suitcase on an Australian ship dock in 1913, adamantly refusing to say where she came from or even what her name is. Eventually she begins searching for her roots in England. - Cassandra, Nell's Australian granddaughter, who takes up the search in England after Nell dies. The storyline skips back and forth in time and from person to person (and also tosses a few other characters' POVs in here and there for good measure, which might irk you if you prefer a more linear plotline with a single POV). But the concerns of these characters and the themes of this book--like identity, finding oneself, family connections, desires--are so closely tied together that I didn't feel confused once I got to know the characters. Eliza is an author of mystical and sometimes dark fairy tales, with lovely sketched illustrations by another character. I really wanted to see these illustrations; I imagine them as something like an Arthur Rackham illustration: or Some of Eliza's stories find their way into the text of this book, and their symbolism and autobiographical qualities help to unravel the mystery of Eliza's life and how it connects to Nell's and Cassandra's. Toward the end I was able to guess the main mysteries of the book, but at least they didn't come out of left field. There are some nasty and disturbed characters in this book and a few really ill-advised decisions made by characters who are otherwise likeable, so it's not all rainbows and unicorns here, but in the end it's a bittersweet but hopeful story, and overall I enjoyed the book. Buddy read with Diane. ...more I read 549 pages and that was the reveal? Really? God, I was bored. I only stuck it out because I figured the book had to be building up to something. And I suppose that technically, it was. Just not anything particularly interesting or worth waiting for. I get it, everyone in the book has mother/child abandonment issues. I think this book really wanted to be The Thirteenth Tale , but didn't have the balls (if you pardon the inaccurate expression, what with how female-centric both titles are). Now I read 549 pages and that was the reveal? Really? God, I was bored. I only stuck it out because I figured the book had to be building up to something. And I suppose that technically, it was. Just not anything particularly interesting or worth waiting for. I get it, everyone in the book has mother/child abandonment issues. I think this book really wanted to be The Thirteenth Tale , but didn't have the balls (if you pardon the inaccurate expression, what with how female-centric both titles are). Now that book had a deeply buried family secret worth reading about. The writing wasn't terrible, and since I was able to sit through all 549 (FIVE HUNDRED AND FORTY NINE) pages, this one gets a whole extra star. It wasn't bad, it was just blah. (That said, I'm pretty sure I would read a book about Georgiana, the original lost mother, but of course that was the story that wasn't really told in long, boring, drawn-out detail. She sounded like fun.) ...more I loved every page of this book, including the hokey stuff. This is definitely comfort reading, but it's not chick lit and it's not oversimplified. It had enough plot complexity to keep my grown-up mind engaged. At the same time, it had enough enchantment and mystery to appeal to the little girl I once was. I was happy to discover that little girl is still in there, and she still believes in magical gardens and strange coincidences. This is a long and lovely story about a woman who made the wrong I loved every page of this book, including the hokey stuff. This is definitely comfort reading, but it's not chick lit and it's not oversimplified. It had enough plot complexity to keep my grown-up mind engaged. At the same time, it had enough enchantment and mystery to appeal to the little girl I once was. I was happy to discover that little girl is still in there, and she still believes in magical gardens and strange coincidences. This is a long and lovely story about a woman who made the wrong decision for the right reason, with consequences that echo down through the generations. Nell, Cassandra, and Eliza are separated by time, but joined by their individual experiences of loss and longing---and the mysteries that bind them together, which I won't tell! Juicy family secrets and fairy tales and a hint of ghostliness make for a really fun read. ...more Kate Morton... qu\u00e9 escritora . Morton escribe sus libros en dos tiempos, como m\u00ednimo. Este, por ejemplo, esta en tres. Siempre sus novelas tienen lugar en familias aristocr\u00e1ticas, caracter\u00edstica que me encanta. Amo esa ambientaci\u00f3n de casas lujosas, sus reglas, sus t\u00edtulos... En cuanto a su manera de narrar, su prosa es exquisita; c\u00f3mo nos cuenta la historia, c\u00f3mo nos absorbe en sus p\u00e1ginas, personajes sumamente reales y desarrollados... Kate naci\u00f3 para escribir . No le puedo pedir nada m\u00e1s. En nin Kate Morton... qu\u00e9 escritora . Morton escribe sus libros en dos tiempos, como m\u00ednimo. Este, por ejemplo, esta en tres. Siempre sus novelas tienen lugar en familias aristocr\u00e1ticas, caracter\u00edstica que me encanta. Amo esa ambientaci\u00f3n de casas lujosas, sus reglas, sus t\u00edtulos... En cuanto a su manera de narrar, su prosa es exquisita; c\u00f3mo nos cuenta la historia, c\u00f3mo nos absorbe en sus p\u00e1ginas, personajes sumamente reales y desarrollados... Kate naci\u00f3 para escribir . No le puedo pedir nada m\u00e1s. En ning\u00fan momento se me hizo pesado, y eso que es un libro que pide a gritos ser tedioso y denso; pero no es as\u00ed. La memoria es una amante cruel con la que todos debemos aprender a bailar . Este libro en particular es mi favorito de esta autora. Ya con la primera carilla se rob\u00f3 toda mi atenci\u00f3n. S\u00f3lo ten\u00eda ojos para la novela que tenia en mis manos. Me acuerdo de que me quede hasta altas horas de la madrugada ley\u00e9ndolo porque se me hacia imposible detenerme e interrumpir mi lectura para dormir . As\u00ed que la primera vez que me sumerg\u00ed en la historia ya hab\u00eda llegado a la mitad. Al d\u00eda siguiente me despert\u00e9 y lo termin\u00e9. Eso es lo que provocan los libros de Morton. Todas sus novelas me las termin\u00e9 en dos sentadas; sin excepci\u00f3n. Todav\u00eda me falta leer uno - Las Horas Distantes -, el cual espero conseguir pronto. Eso, querida m\u00eda, es lo que hace que un personaje sea interesante: sus secretos . El Jardin Olvidado es sumamente r\u00e1pido, es imposible soltarlo. Est\u00e1 lleno de misterio y secretos. Muchos secretos . Es muy complejo y son tantas las historias, las personalidades, los tiempos y lazos familiares que es incre\u00edble ver todo entrelazado y c\u00f3mo todo tiene sentido y cuaja de manera perfecta al final. Es una historia muy minuciosa y detallista. A medida que vas avanzando en la trama Morton te da un dato que te aclara un poco las cosas, pero te agrega dos m\u00e1s que te dejan absolutamente desconcertado y te obligan a mantener tus ojos sobre las p\u00e1ginas. Es una novela en donde la tragedia, la codicia, la injusticia y los sue\u00f1os tienen un papel fundamental. En fin, si quieren un libro adictivo, lleno de secretos, dudas, inc\u00f3gnitas, amor, ternura, cuentos, amistad, dinero , y muchas cosas m\u00e1s, este se los recomiendo sin ninguna duda. PD : El dise\u00f1o del libro es hermoso; su tapa es preciosa. ...more The Forgotten Garden by Kate Morton is a 2009 Atria publication. I only recently discovered this author, having read her latest release, \u201cThe Lake House,\u201d and loved it. Naturally, I wanted more! The Forgotten Garden is just the type of novel I can lose myself in. I love family secrets within a historical setting that spans generations. The story begins with a little girl found all alone in 1913, taken in by a couple desperate for children, raising her as their own, naming her \u201cNell\u201d. Once Nell l The Forgotten Garden by Kate Morton is a 2009 Atria publication. I only recently discovered this author, having read her latest release, \u201cThe Lake House,\u201d and loved it. Naturally, I wanted more! The Forgotten Garden is just the type of novel I can lose myself in. I love family secrets within a historical setting that spans generations. The story begins with a little girl found all alone in 1913, taken in by a couple desperate for children, raising her as their own, naming her \u201cNell\u201d. Once Nell learns the truth, she is shattered by the revelations, and sabotages all the plans she has for the future. Years later, she is given a chance to learn more about her true heritage, but it wasn\u2019t until her granddaughter inherits Nell\u2019s estate, that the truth is slowly unearthed. Kate Morton\u2019s prose is mesmerizing, hypnotizing, and riveting. I enjoyed seeing the mystery unfold due to Cassandra\u2019s persistence, and with the help of those just as eager to help her obtain answers her grandmother never had the chance to. In some ways the tale is a sordid one, controversial even, with people making choices that affect generations of people. Some were selfish, some were selfless, and the results were often mixed. There are actually three stories here, woven together, carefully constructed to keep the reader in almost unbearable suspense, until all the shocking secrets of the forgotten garden are at last revealed, finally releasing the pain and heartbreak visited on so many, and opening up a new portal for peace and understanding. While many areas of this story are depressing, and it could be argued that it\u2019s a tragedy, it is also a kind a love story, and ends on such an uplifting note, I felt a huge sense of peace. I loved Eliza\u2019s fairy tales and the way they paralleled real events, in the story. I could help but feel for Eliza, but admired her, too, however, I was often perplexed by Nell\u2019s choices, but Cassandra is a gem and I think she will make sure the legacy of her true heritage is given the honor and respect it deserves. 4.5 stars ...more I feel a bit conflicted about what rating to give this book. On the one hand, I loved and devoured the last three hundred pages of this book. I found Cassandra, Nell, and Eliza to all be compelling characters and I grew attached to each of them individually. The writing is really beautiful, even poetic in parts, and I loved the weaving of Eliza's fairy tales throughout. I also really enjoyed the setup of the book, with the three women narrating and the way Morton wove everything together so nice I feel a bit conflicted about what rating to give this book. On the one hand, I loved and devoured the last three hundred pages of this book. I found Cassandra, Nell, and Eliza to all be compelling characters and I grew attached to each of them individually. The writing is really beautiful, even poetic in parts, and I loved the weaving of Eliza's fairy tales throughout. I also really enjoyed the setup of the book, with the three women narrating and the way Morton wove everything together so nicely, even repeating sections of narration at the end to show continuity. On the other hand, it took me 200+ pages to really grab onto it, which, in my opinion, is a bit too much. In fact, I was about to abandon the book around page 200, when there was a sudden twist. In addition, parts of the back story, particularly Eliza's, while necessary, should have been reduced. Also, the final twist of the story was likely not a twist for many readers - if you have been paying attention, it's fairly obvious. Finally, I felt that some of this was too reminiscent of The Secret Garden. Morton knowingly pays homage to Hodgeson Burnett, and even includes it in the story, but still, I felt it was a bit overdone. All in all, if you want to choose a family epic about discovering one's history, this is a great choice, though there are some flaws. If you are looking for a mystery, I would suggest that you look elsewhere. ...more http://www.bookcrossing.com/journal/6... I found this as engrossing as her debut which I read earlier this year. This time Kate Morton has written an intriguing mystery that started in the 1900\u2019s and is not fully unravelled until 2005. It is told as three stories covering three generations combining to give us clues along the way. Maybe the ending was a little predictable but I certainly did not guess all the answers to the mysteries along the way. The protagonist is Nell around who the whole myste http://www.bookcrossing.com/journal/6... I found this as engrossing as her debut which I read earlier this year. This time Kate Morton has written an intriguing mystery that started in the 1900\u2019s and is not fully unravelled until 2005. It is told as three stories covering three generations combining to give us clues along the way. Maybe the ending was a little predictable but I certainly did not guess all the answers to the mysteries along the way. The protagonist is Nell around who the whole mystery centres. The story starts in London when Nell as a little girl finds herself unexpectedly travelling by ship to Australia alone. The lady she calls the Authoress having mysteriously disappeared instead of looking after her as promised. Arriving in Australia as an orphan she is given a home by Hugh a dock worker who finds her alone on the dockside on her arrival in Maryborough. It is only on her 21st birthday she learns of her mysterious arrival in Australia, a secret that changes her life dramatically. It is many years later in 1975 that she embarks upon a search for the truth about her birth and early years. Drawn to Cornwall by information she has discovered, she finds herself buying a cottage in the grounds of Blackhurst Manor once owned by the Mountrachet family. She plans to return to England to live in her new cottage after sorting out her affairs back in Australia. However life intervened and Nell never returned to Cornwall, the ownership of the cottage remaining her secret. On her death in 2005 Nell leaves the cottage as a surprise inheritance to her granddaughter Cassandra. It is while visiting her inheritance that Cassandra finally uncovers the secrets surrounding the Mountrachet family Linus, his wife Adeline, their daughter Rose and cousin Eliza, daughter of Linus\u2019s sister Georgiana. How are the family all involved in the disappearance of that little girl nearly a hundred years ago? I am obviously not going to reveal this and spoil the mystery! I think the author may be a fan of The Secret Garden by Frances Hodgson Burnett as not only does The Forgotten Garden remind me in some ways of this classic novel but its author makes an appearance in the story! I read it far too quickly for a novel that is nearly 650 pages. Only took two days. Ok the weather was very hot and I did not feel like doing much else, but to be honest I could not put it down!! ...more \u201cMemory is a cruel mistress with whom we all must learn to dance.\u201d It took me a while to fall in love with this book, but I did. I'm a sucker for stories where past and present intertwine, especially when suspense is on its high point. This book had the right twists, even though some of them were predictable, and it ended in a good place, without unnecessary prolonging. A child is abandoned on a ship headed for Australia in 1913. Nell, the lost child, is the pivotal character around all myste \u201cMemory is a cruel mistress with whom we all must learn to dance.\u201d It took me a while to fall in love with this book, but I did. I'm a sucker for stories where past and present intertwine, especially when suspense is on its high point. This book had the right twists, even though some of them were predictable, and it ended in a good place, without unnecessary prolonging. A child is abandoned on a ship headed for Australia in 1913. Nell, the lost child, is the pivotal character around all mysteries and actions revolve. This tale begins in England and travels across the world to Australia, comes home again to England to uncover a hundred years of secrets. In the second time line, a woman flees from her aristocratic family and lives a life of poverty with her children. When she dies, the daughter is taken in by the same family her mother escaped. In third timeline, a woman is abandoned by her mother and raised by her grandmother. All of these stories are connected. We get to know Eliza, Nell and Cassandra intimately, they are main narrators, but we can also see inside the heads of Rose, Nathaniel, Adeline, and Linus. I adore how twisted Montrachet family is. \"And he loves me, Mamma, he told me so.\" Adeline's heart tightened with fear. Darling girl, blinded by foolish thoughts of love. How to tell her that the hearts of men were not so easily won. If won, rarely kept. \"You'll see,\" Rose said. \"I shall live happily ever after.\u201d Foreshadowing was a really cruel move. This story is full of mystery and allure. There is suspense from the start with secrets within secrets and new riddles piling up over and over again. The enigma will draw you in and the characters will keep you there. I liked the coming back and forth between past and present. Even the simplest details are there for a reason. The story twists and turns, making the secrets seem unresolvable. Basically, this is a story about a woman who made the wrong decision for the right reasons, with consequences that hunted down generations. The story line skips from person to person, with tossing other characters' POVs, which might irritate you if you prefer fewer POVs. There are some nasty and disturbing characters, like Linus and Adeline, and a few fundamentally wrong decisions made by characters that are otherwise likeable, like Rose and Eliza. Though the plot is predictable in some parts, it still keeps you guessing until the very end. I wasn't a big fan of Nell nor I particularly enjoyed her POVs though they held a lot of useful information. She led such a lonely life on purpose and it seemed like she punished herself for something she couldn't even be responsible for. Also, she was rude, frigid and unfriendly and because of that it was hard at first to fall in love with this book. \u201cYou make a life out of what you have, not what you're missing.\u201d And their lies the biggest mistake Nell made. She never fully lived her life, she constantly kept chasing what she thought she was missing and forgot that she was surrounded by people who TRULY loved her for who she is. And she just pushed them away. She constantly worried about her own feelings, but never considered others' emotions. Cassandra was okay, but had no real depth except that one tragic event, so I wasn't that much consumed in her life. She grew on me towards the end, though. She is a woman still struggling with PTSD almost 10 years later and with death of her grandmother it looks like she won't be recovering anytime soon. Eliza had such a tragic childhood. I don't even know how she survived and stayed sane. Well, half-sane. She has a good heart and means well, but everyone kept punishing her for her mother's independency. Though, those were different times, but still not everyone were that much judgemental. \u201cA girl expecting rescue never learns to save herself.\u201d A lesson Eliza have never quite learned. She trusted people too much and had too much faith they'll take care of her. She also had too much love in her heart, but no one to love. Her destiny is the most tragic one and she most certainly didn't deserve it. That is why her story was the most strenuous one to read about. My feelings about Rose are so contradicted. While she was growing up, I liked her and thought she was strong and not one to give up easily, but when she became a young woman, all she was is selfish and inconsiderate brat. She literally cared about no one but herself and a lot of people were hurt because of her absence of tact. Linus' mind was so twisted. I couldn't shake the feeling that if given the chance, he would've done something eternally disturbing. He was even worse than Adeline, because he kept waiting for his chance to hurt someone. Luckily, that chance never came - either because he was a coward or because he was too lazy to do anything with his life. Adeline is plainly a horrible person. I hope I never meet someone like her, because I probably won't restrain myself from teaching them a lesson. She's so unhappy, obsessive, narrow-minded, full of prejudices, egocentric and filled with negative energy. Literally, no one could breath in her company. Nathaniel was a lost artist who didn't have the guts to make decisions for himself and instead he let his mother in law to do all the hard work for him. As a consequence, he felt stuck in a dull life like he was living in a prison. I felt so sorry for him, but I still believe he's responsible for the empty life he led. Rose was too selfish to see what she was doing to Eliza. Eliza loved Rose unconditionally and Rose took advantage of that. Rose was just like her mother in the end. I'm so angry with her. Eliza literally loved Rose more than she loved herself, but for Rose she was only an asset to get her own version of happiness. Cassandra and Nell had an odd, but functional bond. Nell raised Cassandra, and she raised her right. They were both abandoned and in the constant search for their identity, which means they were each other's consolation. Nell saved Cassandra's soul when she literally didn't have will for life anymore. \u201cYou'll beat this. I know it doesn't feel like it, but you will. You're a survivor.\" \"I don't want to survive it.\" \"I know that, too,\" Nell had said. \"And it's fair enough. But sometimes we don't have a choice.\u201d It's quite possible that someone CAN save you instead of you saving yourself. Check out my blog! ...more good: 3  stars. First off if you\u2019re a Kate Morton fan you\u2019ll love it. Definitely its strongest points were the weaving of Grimm style fairytales and a hidden garden into the story; I\u2019m a sucker for both. Her characterizations are strong; Eliza Makepeace was terrific, definitely the most memorable of the lot. Other standouts included the simpering Rose & Adeline, her social climbing psycho of a mother. They were both so over-the-top weird, I found them fascinating. not so good: The constan good: 3 \u00bd stars. First off if you\u2019re a Kate Morton fan you\u2019ll love it. Definitely its strongest points were the weaving of Grimm style fairytales and a hidden garden into the story; I\u2019m a sucker for both. Her characterizations are strong; Eliza Makepeace was terrific, definitely the most memorable of the lot. Other standouts included the simpering Rose & Adeline, her social climbing psycho of a mother. They were both so over-the-top weird, I found them fascinating. not so good: The constant jumping between different time periods and characters was annoying. Used with restraint it adds suspense, when overdone (and lets be honest she did it to death) it ruins the flow of a story. Longer chapters would have helped. This book shines as a period piece, it has this great Edwardian flavour going for it, shades of Rebecca . Was the inclusion of the time period 2005 really necessary?\u2026 So, I was over 1/2 way into it before I was hooked and it took me over 2 weeks to read a book I\u2019d normally have knocked off in 3 days. bottom-line: This is only her 2nd novel, the lady can write\u2026I\u2019d recommend to anyone with a taste for long atmospheric gothic mysteries. This was my 1st shot at reading Kate Morton - it won\u2019t be my last. \u201cA full moon meant that the room wasn\u2019t completely dark. A silvery film spilled across every surface, smooth and dull like wax gone cool\u201d ...more I listened to the audio book version and really enjoyed it. I have a different standard for audio books (than I do for books I read myself in a printed format). They have to be read at a pace that allows me to understand what's being said (the actual words being read) and what's happening in the story while I'm driving my car, the voice of the reader has to be pleasant and agreeable and the story has to hold my attention. I'm generally able to suspend disbelief more easily when I'm listening to I listened to the audio book version and really enjoyed it. I have a different standard for audio books (than I do for books I read myself in a printed format). They have to be read at a pace that allows me to understand what's being said (the actual words being read) and what's happening in the story while I'm driving my car, the voice of the reader has to be pleasant and agreeable and the story has to hold my attention. I'm generally able to suspend disbelief more easily when I'm listening to an audio book. I liked the characters Kate Morton created and loved the story, a woman trying to uncover the mystery of who she is and where she came from. I also loved the period of time that was covered. The story had dark and sinister facets and I would have liked it if they had been expanded upon a little more. This story captured my attention and held it through to the end. I liked the way the author slowly revealed parts of the past so the reader knows things the characters don't, I thought this added to the suspense of the story. The narration by different characters was not confusing when listening to the audio book because the reader did such a wonderful job of creating individual voices for each of them. ...more \"The Forgotten Garden\" was rather disappointing, as I was sure that I would love this book. Secrets, mystery, a hidden garden...these are ingredients that I love. Just not the most fortunate use for them in this plot. For one thing, this book should have been half its length - so many and not particularly beautiful descriptions, detailed rendering of unimportant gestures and unnecessary talk. And the secrets were not really secrets, I could glimpse at several possibilities, one of which turned o \"The Forgotten Garden\" was rather disappointing, as I was sure that I would love this book. Secrets, mystery, a hidden garden...these are ingredients that I love. Just not the most fortunate use for them in this plot. For one thing, this book should have been half its length - so many and not particularly beautiful descriptions, detailed rendering of unimportant gestures and unnecessary talk. And the secrets were not really secrets, I could glimpse at several possibilities, one of which turned out to be true in the end. If the mystery were deeper, the writing more alert, it would have made a perfect easy read. I made sure to be a fast read though, as I couldn't waste too much time with this book, seeing that it didn't please me the way a good book should. Some parts of the story are indeed catchy, the setting of Blackhurst estate is amazing (though I made little use of the map enclosed), but some of the characters and events are not quite believable. Nell, for one thing, behaved in a stupid manner; no matter the author's attempts to explain her behavior, I just couldn't relate to her choices. On top of that, I wasn't fond of any particular character in this novel, because they were not easy to like. If you made a r\u00e9sum\u00e9 of this book, the resulting story would be interesting enough, but the 500 pages are not worth the time spent in its company, if you're looking for a gripping, fast-paced novel. ...more I'm becoming quite the fan of Kate Morton. I loved this book, even though it was still a little tragic for my taste (yes Allison - tragic!). And there were times it was a little hard to follow because there are so many characters and so many time periods. But it's a great story. A classic, really. I LOVED the mystery and how the author kept me guessing until the very end. I grew so close to the main characters. I could feel their heartache. Poor Eliza. She was my favorite. So full of life despit I'm becoming quite the fan of Kate Morton. I loved this book, even though it was still a little tragic for my taste (yes Allison - tragic!). And there were times it was a little hard to follow because there are so many characters and so many time periods. But it's a great story. A classic, really. I LOVED the mystery and how the author kept me guessing until the very end. I grew so close to the main characters. I could feel their heartache. Poor Eliza. She was my favorite. So full of life despite so many losses. I loved Rose too, until she betrayed her cousin. That's what it was to me, a betrayal. She was too selfish to see what she was doing to Eliza. Eliza loved Rose unconditionally and Rose took advantage of that. Rose was just like her mother in the end. I would have been totally happy if the book ended with Nathanial and Eliza running off together with little Ivory, leaving all those at Blackhurst behind. And Linus, he was a horrid creature. Although I felt slightly bad for him, his mind was just twisted. I couldn't shake the feeling that if given the chance, he would have done something very, very bad. And Adeline was no better. So cold-hearted and calculating. I love Kate Morton as an author. I love her writing style. She is so eloquently descriptive without being too overbearing, making you feel as if you are actually there and can touch and taste and smell everything going on. It's magic. ...more This review was originally posted on [Between My Lines] Have you ever read a book and thought how can I review that? \u00a0How can I show just how powerful and wise the words were? \u00a0What way could I portray that slow tantalising reveal of long forgotten family secrets. How could I do it justice? That was my dilemma\u00a0on finishing The Forgotten Garden by Kate Morton. \u00a0So I'm skipping the review and letting Kate's own words do all the hard graft for me! 5 Inspirational Quotes\u00a0-\u00a0The Forgotten Garden by Kat This review was originally posted on [Between My Lines] Have you ever read a book and thought how can I review that? \u00a0How can I show just how powerful and wise the words were? \u00a0What way could I portray that slow tantalising reveal of long forgotten family secrets. How could I do it justice? That was my dilemma\u00a0on finishing The Forgotten Garden by Kate Morton. \u00a0So I'm skipping the review and letting Kate's own words do all the hard graft for me! 5 Inspirational Quotes\u00a0-\u00a0The Forgotten Garden by Kate Morton: 1. \u00a0Be Grateful for what you have \u201cYou make a life out of what you have, not what you're missing.\u201d I live this everyday of my life. \u00a0Or as my mother might say, 'count your blessings instead of your woes.' \u00a0It's tough love but it's honest and wise. 2. \u00a0Life is not a fairy tale \u201cYou must learn to know the difference between tales and the truth, my Liza, she would say. Fairy tales have a habit of ending too soon. They never show what happens afterwards when the prince and princess ride off the page.\u201d When you read too many romance books, you tend to romanticise relationships. \u00a0I love these 3 lines as they prove that most people struggle with and work at maintaining their love. \u00a0It doesn't mean it can't be great but it's also not happy-ever-after effortlessly. 3. \u00a0Stories heal \"She's understood the power of stories. Their magical ability to refill the wounded part of people.\u201d Oh yes. \u00a0Me too. \u00a0They are my medicine and my prevention for all ills. \u00a0When life is biting you in the ass, you can't beat a great comfort read to make you feel a little better. 4. \u00a0Surrender to books! \u201cCassandra always hid when she read, though she never quite knew why. It was as if she couldn't shake the guilty suspicion that she was being lazy, that surrendering herself so completely to something so enjoyable must surely be wrong. But surrender she did. Let herself drop through the rabbit hole and into a tale of magic and mystery ...\u201d I don't know why I do this but it's true, I often feel guilty reading. \u00a0Thinking I should clean this, or tend to that. \u00a0But in fairness I'm pretty good at shutting up those voices by now, \u00a0Years of practise has me adept at surrendering to books and letting them fill my world. 5. \u00a0Work hard \u201cThe happiest folk are those that are busy, for their minds are starved of time to seek out woe.\u201d Again, this sounds like something my mother would say. \u00a0Probably while thinking I was wasting time reading! \u00a0But I do find that it can be true, when you throw yourself heart and soul in to a task, it can be very restorative. Who should read The Forgotten Garden by Kate Morton? Highly recommend to those who like English settings, family secrets and memorable characters. \u00a0Fans of authors such as Monica McInerney , Maeve Binchy and Diane Chamberlain should also enjoy. \u00a0It also mirrors The Secret Garden a bit and in fact the author of that book makes an appearance here so if you love that, then I'd also suggest trying The Forgotten Garden. Talk to Trish : Can you identify with any of these quotes? \u00a0 Which ones? ...more Aviso: la rese\u00f1a tiene spoilers que ocult\u00e9 debidamente, cosa que este libro no hace, tal como dej\u00e9 aclarado en una nota en el final. Debo admitir que compr\u00e9 el libro tironeada por el \u201cPrimera Guerra Mundial\u201d que se lee en la sinopsis de la edici\u00f3n, ya que cre\u00ed que la parte del pasado estar\u00eda ambientada en ese hecho. Sin embargo, apenas roza el a\u00f1o en que ocurri\u00f3 e inesperadamente me vi envuelta en otra clase de historia, una que oscila entre la identidad y el amor (no necesariamente hacia una p Aviso: la rese\u00f1a tiene spoilers que ocult\u00e9 debidamente, cosa que este libro no hace, tal como dej\u00e9 aclarado en una nota en el final. Debo admitir que compr\u00e9 el libro tironeada por el \u201cPrimera Guerra Mundial\u201d que se lee en la sinopsis de la edici\u00f3n, ya que cre\u00ed que la parte del pasado estar\u00eda ambientada en ese hecho. Sin embargo, apenas roza el a\u00f1o en que ocurri\u00f3 e inesperadamente me vi envuelta en otra clase de historia, una que oscila entre la identidad y el amor (no necesariamente hacia una pareja). A grandes rasgos que despu\u00e9s ampliar\u00e9, mi calificaci\u00f3n no puede ser m\u00e1s generosa porque no me gust\u00f3 la construcci\u00f3n de sus personajes, que son pilares fundamentales, y los cap\u00edtulos ambientados en el tiempo presente (2005 en el libro) se me hicieron de plomo. Un gran porcentaje de la culpa lo tiene Cassandra, protagonista sosa si las hay. Algo m\u00e1s para discutirle a la sinopsis: no son tres voces. En todo caso, son tres tiempos en donde se alternan muchas voces, aunque las principales sean las de Cassandra, Nell, Eliza y Rose. Nell es el eslab\u00f3n de la cadena que se pierde y un buen d\u00eda (el d\u00eda de su cumplea\u00f1os, precisamente, porque\u2026 \u00bfqu\u00e9 padre no creer\u00eda que el mejor momento para revelar un gran secreto es la fiesta de su hija adorada?) empieza a buscar a su familia biol\u00f3gica. Cassandra, su nieta, va a ser heredera de esa b\u00fasqueda cuando Nell muera \u00bfLa pista principal? Un libro de cuentos de hadas. As\u00ed la narraci\u00f3n se va a dividir en cap\u00edtulos en donde se especifica tiempo y lugar, para orientar al lector. En cierto momento, deja de hacer falta. Las partes del pasado transcurren a fines del siglo XIX y principios del XX (como ya dije, rozando la Gran Guerra), las del pasado reciente en el 75-76 y las del presente, en el 2005. Lo menciono no con la finalidad de aclarar porque esto se nota a la legua en el libro, pero me facilita hablar de los tiempos en la rese\u00f1a. Ahora bien, el pasado es lo que m\u00e1s me interes\u00f3 porque describ\u00eda una Inglaterra victoriana en donde se situaba el germen de toda la historia, la familia Mountrachet. El pasado reciente sirve para reconstruir qu\u00e9 sucedi\u00f3 anteriormente mientras la narraci\u00f3n se niega a darnos m\u00e1s datos y el presente se encarga de poner las piezas del rompecabezas en orden. Obviamente, la jugadora original, Nell, le pasa sin querer una responsabilidad a Cassandra. La trama de secretos y de intrigas (casi todas impulsadas por intereses mezquinos y perturbadores) es muy entretenida. Genera inter\u00e9s, incluso cuando abre tantas ramificaciones que es dif\u00edcil creer que haya un tronco all\u00ed. Pero lo hay\u2026 y se empieza a ver con nitidez en la \u00faltima parte del libro. Lo curioso es que la protagonista, Cassandra, se la pasa orquestando hip\u00f3tesis err\u00f3neas para descolocar. Los personajes del pasado salvan el libro. Cuando le\u00eda no pod\u00eda dejar de pensar en Oliver Twist y Jane Eyre , que adem\u00e1s est\u00e1n protagonizados por hu\u00e9rfanos que viven una infancia espantosa (no, no me voy a poner a teorizar sobre las vicisitudes de los ni\u00f1os victorianos pobres porque la rese\u00f1a ser\u00eda eterna). Los \u201cvillanos\u201d tienen caracter\u00edsticas similares a los que est\u00e1n en estos libros y estoy segura de que se me deben haber escapado referencias. (view spoiler) [ Con respecto al jard\u00edn olvidado en cuesti\u00f3n, no le\u00ed El jard\u00edn secreto pero me quedaron muchas ganas de hacerlo, ya que adem\u00e1s la autora forma parte de los personajes. (hide spoiler) ] Eliza, Rose (esta parece m\u00e1s de un libro de Jane Austen, por lo delicada) y Adeline forman una trama casi de telenovela, sin olvidar a los hombres que tambi\u00e9n la integran. Hay de todo: mujeres con instintos maternales monstruosos, afectos que pueden llegar a ser incestuosos, gente envidiosa y dem\u00e1s. Particularmente me gust\u00f3 Eliza, que tiene apariciones muy et\u00e9reas, casi como si no fuera de carne y hueso. Y no es perfecta (mucho menos para los par\u00e1metros de la \u00e9poca), as\u00ed que tiene doble encanto. Por otro lado, los personajes del presente tienen una personalidad muy parecida entre s\u00ed y confunden, como todas las mujeres que conoce Cassandra en un viaje. Los personajes masculinos son escasos y, si bien ayudan en la reconstrucci\u00f3n de la identidad de Nell, tienen poca fuerza para sobresalir del papel. Est\u00e1 bien escrito y no cae en los convencionalismos a la hora de describir una situaci\u00f3n. La dosis de informaci\u00f3n est\u00e1 bien administrada, lo suficiente como para que uno quiera empezar inmediatamente el cap\u00edtulo siguiente. Creo que el punto flojo est\u00e1 en los di\u00e1logos: algunos no son cre\u00edbles o, en todo caso, sobran. Y digo \u201csobran\u201d porque es un libro que no suele dispersarse, salvo en algunas ocasiones que son absolutamente perdonables. Rid\u00edculas, como la del vencimiento de la leche que coment\u00e9 en un status, pero perdonables. Casi todo lo discutible est\u00e1 en el tiempo presente porque Cassandra me caus\u00f3 aburrimiento nivel mil y, por m\u00e1s que la autora le invent\u00f3 todo un pasado propio que justifica por qu\u00e9 es como es, no lo compr\u00e9. Hace casi lo mismo con Nell, aunque a esta la deja mal parada. Agregarle m\u00e1s drama a lo que ya es dram\u00e1tico en un libro satura, no conmueve (al menos, no en mi caso). Y el final deja un par de cabos sueltos sin resolver, tal vez porque no son relevantes en la trama. Ciertas cosas me hicieron pensar que entre los tiempos que se manejan aqu\u00ed, los cuentos de hadas y los personajes que tienen una cuota de tristeza para aportar podr\u00edan haberse escrito 3 o 4 libros distintos. Levant\u00e9 mucho las cejas durante la lectura de El jard\u00edn olvidado pero no puedo decir que fue una p\u00e9rdida de tiempo. No lo siento as\u00ed. Fue una inversi\u00f3n de esfuerzo en un libro que sonaba bien por fuera y que adentro no s\u00f3lo era diferente, sino que mutaba en todos los cap\u00edtulos (a veces para bien, otras para mal). Con personajes m\u00e1s s\u00f3lidos (y menos patchwork de otras historias) se hubiera llevado mejor. Nota: Rose, en un momento de brillantez alucinante spoilea Tess of the D'Urbervilles , de Thomas Hardy. No comentar\u00e9 por qu\u00e9, pero ese p\u00e1rrafo fue lo m\u00e1s hilarante del libro. El \u00fanico momento en donde me re\u00ed genuinamente, mientras ten\u00eda ganas de ahorcarla por haberme arruinado el libro de Hardy y por un comentario horroroso que hace sobre una escena del mismo. ...more Aviso desde j\u00e1 que tudo o que possa dizer sobre este livro n\u00e3o vai fazer jus \u00e0 sua hist\u00f3ria, \u00e0 sua qualidade. Foi dos melhores livros que li, n\u00e3o s\u00f3 este ano, mas de sempre. H\u00e1 muito tempo que ouvia bloggers a falar deste livro, especialmente, a minha amiga Tita do Prazer das Coisas que n\u00e3o se cansava de me recomendar este livro. Como confio nas suas recomenda\u00e7\u00f5es, pois j\u00e1 deram bons resultados e at\u00e9 temos alguns gostos liter\u00e1rios em comum aceitei de imediato a sua recomenda\u00e7\u00e3o. Quando vi o livro Aviso desde j\u00e1 que tudo o que possa dizer sobre este livro n\u00e3o vai fazer jus \u00e0 sua hist\u00f3ria, \u00e0 sua qualidade. Foi dos melhores livros que li, n\u00e3o s\u00f3 este ano, mas de sempre. H\u00e1 muito tempo que ouvia bloggers a falar deste livro, especialmente, a minha amiga Tita do Prazer das Coisas que n\u00e3o se cansava de me recomendar este livro. Como confio nas suas recomenda\u00e7\u00f5es, pois j\u00e1 deram bons resultados e at\u00e9 temos alguns gostos liter\u00e1rios em comum aceitei de imediato a sua recomenda\u00e7\u00e3o. Quando vi o livro e sabendo a minha rela\u00e7\u00e3o com livros de mais de 400 p\u00e1ginas fiquei com medo. Medo de n\u00e3o conseguir ler e arrastar a leitura eternamente. Mas isso n\u00e3o aconteceu. \u00c9 uma hist\u00f3ria maravilhosa. N\u00e3o s\u00f3 bonita, mas muito bem contada e escrita. A qualidade da escrita da autora \u00e9 indiscut\u00edvel. Os detalhes, os pormenores da hist\u00f3ria s\u00e3o fant\u00e1sticos. As personagens muito bem constru\u00eddas e com um car\u00e1cter psicol\u00f3gico muito profundo. N\u00e3o h\u00e1 mais palavras para descrever esta leitura. J\u00e1 tive conhecimento que nem todos os livros da autora s\u00e3o assim, mas a minha estreia foi fabulosa. Vou querer ler tudo desta autora que \u00e9 candidata a ficar no meu top de autoras preferidas. Acho que posso dizer que me reconciliei com os \"calhama\u00e7os\". Recomendo, leiam!! ...more \u039c\u03cc\u03bb\u03b9\u03c2 \u03ad\u03ba\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd 665\u03b7 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u00ab\u03a3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03cd\u03b8\u03b9\u00bb \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03ce \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c9 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03b9 665 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03c5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03b5\u03c2. \u0394\u03b5\u03bd \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c0\u03ac\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c4\u03ad\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf \u03b2\u03b1\u03b8\u03bc\u03cc, \u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c1\u03b9\u03b6\u03b1 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c6\u03bb\u03cd\u03b1\u03c1\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc. \u039a\u03b9 \u03cc\u03bc\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03ba\u03bf\u03cd\u03c1\u03b1\u03c3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b8\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5, \u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03b5 \u03ac\u03c1\u03c9\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03b9\u03bf\u03cd \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03b7 \u03b3\u03b5\u03cd\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5, \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac, \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03ae\u03c1\u03b9\u03bf, \u03b7 \u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03bb\u03cd\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5. \u039c\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c0\u03bb\u03b7\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c1\u03b9\u03bc\u03af\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u039a\u03ad\u03ca\u03c4 \u039c\u03cc\u03c1\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03ac \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b6\u03b7\u03c4\u03ae\u03c3\u03c9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c5\u03c0\u03bf\u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03b7\u03c3\u03af\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03ad\u03c1\u03b3\u03b1, \u039c\u03cc\u03bb\u03b9\u03c2 \u03ad\u03ba\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd 665\u03b7 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u00ab\u03a3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03cd\u03b8\u03b9\u00bb \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03ce \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c9 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03b9 665 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03c5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03b5\u03c2. \u0394\u03b5\u03bd \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c0\u03ac\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c4\u03ad\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf \u03b2\u03b1\u03b8\u03bc\u03cc, \u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c1\u03b9\u03b6\u03b1 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c6\u03bb\u03cd\u03b1\u03c1\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc. \u039a\u03b9 \u03cc\u03bc\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03ba\u03bf\u03cd\u03c1\u03b1\u03c3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b8\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5, \u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03b5 \u03ac\u03c1\u03c9\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03b9\u03bf\u03cd \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03b7 \u03b3\u03b5\u03cd\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5, \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac, \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03ae\u03c1\u03b9\u03bf, \u03b7 \u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03bb\u03cd\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5. \u039c\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c0\u03bb\u03b7\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c1\u03b9\u03bc\u03af\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u039a\u03ad\u03ca\u03c4 \u039c\u03cc\u03c1\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03ac \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b6\u03b7\u03c4\u03ae\u03c3\u03c9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c5\u03c0\u03bf\u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03b7\u03c3\u03af\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03ad\u03c1\u03b3\u03b1, \u03b5\u03bb\u03c0\u03af\u03b6\u03c9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03bf \u03c5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03b1. ...more I was ready to love this book from the moment I heard about it. The Secret Garden is one of my favorite books, and stories about family secrets and hidden rooms and stuff like that are like catnip to me. And the bare bones of this story is indeed pretty satisfying. Unfortunately, the execution of it ruined most of my enjoyment, and I decided halfway through that I wasn\u2019t going to read any more of this author\u2019s books. I\u2019ve been really excited about two of her books now, and both have been complet I was ready to love this book from the moment I heard about it. The Secret Garden is one of my favorite books, and stories about family secrets and hidden rooms and stuff like that are like catnip to me. And the bare bones of this story is indeed pretty satisfying. Unfortunately, the execution of it ruined most of my enjoyment, and I decided halfway through that I wasn\u2019t going to read any more of this author\u2019s books. I\u2019ve been really excited about two of her books now, and both have been completely underwhelming for the most part, and frustrating more often than not. So, no more Kate Morton for Ashley. No use trying to shove a square peg into a round hole over and over and then complaining and crying when it keeps not fitting. So anyway, the book. The Forgotten Garden follows three women through about a hundred years of history, but their narratives are all mixed up with one another so as to preserve the mystery of what actually happened until the very last minute. First, there\u2019s Nell, who was found as a little girl abandoned on a dock in Australia and taken in by a lonely childless couple, who then raised her as their own. Where did she come from, and why was she alone on that dock at four years old? Then there\u2019s her granddaughter Cassandra, who becomes wrapped up in the mystery of her grandmother\u2019s past after Nell dies and leaves Cassandra a mysterious cottage in England. And finally, there\u2019s \u201cthe authoress,\u201d aka Eliza, who is connected somehow to both women, but who is known to history for having written a collection of beloved fairy-tales and then slipping off the face of the earth. See, that sounds awesome, right? I would totally want to read that book if I read my description. Hell. I still want to read that book. Unfortunately, that book turned out to be disappointing for me for lots of reasons, among them: 1. More often than not, Morton\u2019s ponderous writing goes for the obvious connections and phrasing, but seems to think them not obvious, which makes her writing and her characters have a lot of moments where they come off as having been hit by the stupid stick. It\u2019s been over a month since I finished, so I\u2019ve forgotten most of the details I could use as examples. 2. It\u2019s not inconceivable that a woman (Nell) could have such an intense reaction to finding out she\u2019s been adopted after having spent her whole life believing she wasn\u2019t. But from what Morton chooses to show us of her story, Nell\u2019s reaction comes off as extreme, and makes her seem rather horrible. Sure, these people adopted her in sketchy circumstances, but that doesn\u2019t negate the fact that she loved them, they loved her, and her sisters did nothing to deserve the sudden emotional distance she put between them. Was her identity so fragile that just finding out she didn\u2019t share the same genetics with her loving family was enough to break her? I didn\u2019t buy it at all. There are more instances of lazy character work like this for most of the characters in the novel, but this one was the most egregious for me. 3. I liked the idea of the alternating timelines and POVs, but Morton\u2019s sense of dramatic tension in how she deploys them was totally off. Most of the time, we would get some sort of revelatory information in Cassandra\u2019s or Nell\u2019s timelines, and then Morton would show us those same events in flashback form in excruciating length, presenting no new information when doing so. I suppose if you as a reader were super in love with the characters, this would not have been a problem for you, but I wasn\u2019t, so it was. I kept thinking, get on it with already! We just learned this five minutes ago! 4. There were some moments where the story got over the top ridiculous and I physically could not stop myself from rolling my eyes. This more than anything convinced me that I should stop reading her stuff. 5. Morton actually writes out several of Eliza\u2019s fairy-tales for us to read, which was sort of gutsy, because what if they sucked? They don\u2019t suck, but they also don\u2019t enchant, and I think we\u2019re meant to think they\u2019re better and more awesome than they come off. Thankfully, they aren\u2019t just there to enchant us, they also serve two other purposes: to foreshadow the overall story of the book, and to provide insight into the mystery of Eliza Makepeace and her story. They\u2019re symbolic in the world of the book, and symbolic of the book itself. I\u2019m pretty sure there was other stuff I wanted to say about this book, but it\u2019s been too long and I\u2019ve forgotten. I can see how this is a book many people would love, but I\u2019m not one of them. I would say if you\u2019re considering reading some of Kate Morton\u2019s books, this is definitely the better of the two I\u2019ve read by her, so starting here would be a good idea. If you like this one, you\u2019ll like her other books, too. [3.5 stars] ...more Such a great book!!! I rate this 4.5 stars. A wonderful 'epic' journey with characters 'not' to be forgotten. Its a rich and satisfying engaging story. Given the length of this book (500+ pages)---its amazing how easy it is to retain all the many details and every new character who gets introduced (must credit the writer). This book just 'flows'. Its the type of book I would have loved to read in the winter --curled up on the couched on a few cold chilly days-- read 'non-stop'....(but I didn't hav Such a great book!!! I rate this 4.5 stars. A wonderful 'epic' journey with characters 'not' to be forgotten. Its a rich and satisfying engaging story. Given the length of this book (500+ pages)---its amazing how easy it is to retain all the many details and every new character who gets introduced (must credit the writer). This book just 'flows'. Its the type of book I would have loved to read in the winter --curled up on the couched on a few cold chilly days-- read 'non-stop'....(but I didn't have the pleasure to read it quite that fast ---yet I never forgot a thing, even when I put it down for a day (busy doing something else) -- I found myself sharing every detail of this story with my husband ---as I went along --(I got so involved) I think 'maybe' the only part of the book (for me) where the writer (or editing) might have made a correction is towards the end. (not the content) --The story line was perfect ---but the writing began to feel rushed -- (yet it 'was' time to end it) -- I don't know how I would have done a damn thing better --[I'm no writer]. I think the book needed a little better editing towards the 'end'---(it felt rushed--& sometimes felt like it was taking 'too' long ---both at the same time) --- What do I know? Most: I loved the book --- Oh...AND....when I first was about to 'start' reading \"The Forgotten Garden\", I was 'fighting' liking it....I was 'looking' for fault, as I had voted for the 'other' book to read, (our book club picked it) --- I was sure this was going to be a long girlie-book -- which didn't even have historical 'reasons' for being long.... (I observed my 'already' negative thoughts ---then kept reading... I must say....I was WRONG.... This book was 'enchanting'---'charming' ---magical ---heartfelt --*wonderful*! Its another one of those books --where you'd love to see the move come out. (knowing of course that the book will be better) ---but at least we get to be part of this story again). Beautiful author by the way. --Gee---can you get much more pretty? (and talented)! Congrats to her! I soooooooooooo admire these authors and what they do! :) ...more It has already been said that this book contains some plotlines that are reminiscent of The Secret Garden. Despite the fact that the author is clearly conscious of this fact in her novel, some readers are turned off to the book because of it. But...this book is about so much more than just the commonalities of a sick child, an orphan in a new mansion home, and a secret walled garden. It leaps back and forth between three sets of protagonists...Cassandra in the present, Nell (her grandmother) in It has already been said that this book contains some plotlines that are reminiscent of The Secret Garden. Despite the fact that the author is clearly conscious of this fact in her novel, some readers are turned off to the book because of it. But...this book is about so much more than just the commonalities of a sick child, an orphan in a new mansion home, and a secret walled garden. It leaps back and forth between three sets of protagonists...Cassandra in the present, Nell (her grandmother) in the mid-century, and Eliza Makepeace in the late 1800s. Anyone with an affinity for Romance (with a capital R), fairy tales, secret family histories, and abandoned houses will love this book. Although my favorite character has to be Eliza Makepeace, all of them are rendered fully and sympathetically, despite their human frailties. And please, PLEASE don't skip the fairy tales. There are only a few of them in the book, but they are my personal favorite part of the entire experience. You can't *just* read the fairy tales, and you can't *just* read the book, because the fairy tales are inspired by the personal experiences of the author. The trials and life experiences of Eliza Makepeace are incorporated into her tales in a brilliant way that is not to be missed. I debated between four and five stars for this book, because I did find the very beginning (before the journey to England began) quite slow and plodding. But the rest of the book is just so captivating, I had to round up, and give it 5 stars. ...more I loved The House at Riverton, this one, not so much - It was entertaining, but the storyline was way too convoluted. Too many coincidences, too many mysteries to be solved, too many similar characters and 4 generations to keep track of. The story flips back and forth to 3 different time periods and it was hard for me to remember who was a child, who was an adult and who was already dead by then. I didn't make it any easier by flipping back and forth between the Kindle book and the audio version I loved The House at Riverton, this one, not so much - It was entertaining, but the storyline was way too convoluted. Too many coincidences, too many mysteries to be solved, too many similar characters and 4 generations to keep track of. The story flips back and forth to 3 different time periods and it was hard for me to remember who was a child, who was an adult and who was already dead by then. I didn't make it any easier by flipping back and forth between the Kindle book and the audio version - they never seemed to synch properly and I ended up either rereading the same thing or missing a few pages. It was a decent book and fun to discuss on a Buddy Read, but I am glad to be done with it! ...more This book is absolutely fantastic!! Excellent story!!!!", "Title": "The Forgotten Garden"},
