{"Comments": "I\u2019m about to start gushing over this book now, so look out. I may end up stammering my way through this review,<---M> but if I do</---M>, just consider it a tribute to Jason Taylor. So <+++>Black Swan Green</+++>. This is the first <---A>David Mitchell</---A> book I\u2019ve read but I assure you, it will not be the last.<---F> I loved everything about this book</---F>. I RELATED to everything about this book. True, I have no idea what it\u2019s like to be a 13 year old British boy growing up in the 80\u2019s, yet there is something so universal about this char I\u2019m about to start gushing over this book now, so look out. I may end up stammering my way through this review, but if I do, just consider it a tribute to Jason Taylor. So <+++>Black Swan Green</+++>. This is the first David Mitchell book I\u2019ve read but I assure you, it will not be the last. I loved everything about this book. I RELATED to everything about this book. True, I have no idea what it\u2019s like to be a 13 year old British boy growing up in the 80\u2019s, yet there is something so universal about this character that anyone who has gone through adolescence can probably relate to in some way or another. Me? I related a lot. For one thing, when I was 13 I was a total tree climbing, fort making, trouble finding tomboy. Not exactly the makings of a \u201cpopular\u201d teenage girl. And I was PAINFULLY shy. I remember that feeling of just wanting to make myself as invisible as possible so that no one noticed me. Because noticing me would undoubtedly lead to ridicule in some nasty form or another. But Jason takes his ribbing in stride. He\u2019s a good kid. A likable kid. A kid you find yourself rooting for. You want him to get the girl! You want him to beat the crap out of the jerkface bullies! You want him to succeed! Jason Taylor is ACE. David Mitchell is ACE. Black Swan Green, that\u2019s right, ACE! I wish I could remember all of the glorious passages from this book, but I borrowed the dang thing from the library, and they don\u2019t take kindly to people underlining things or scribbling in the margins. I jotted this bit down on a scrap of paper: ~ Jealous and sweet, this music was, sobbing and gorgeous, muddy and crystal. But if the right words existed the music wouldn\u2019t need to. Sigh. I didn\u2019t want this book to end. I think it\u2019s the type of book that will serve you well to read at a leisurely pace. Give yourself time to let the story marinate; allow Jason Taylor to touch your heart. You\u2019ll be glad you did. ...more ' The world unmakes stuff faster than people can make it. ' Month by month our lives spiral forth into the future, with each moment shaping who we are and who we will become. It is no wonder that the pivotal years of adolescence, the stage of development classified by Erik Erikson as the Identity vs. Role Confusion stage, is fertile land for novels (if the nutrients of such land has been dried up from overuse of such topics is up for debate). Mitchell\u2019s Black Swan Green examines this tumultuous per ' The world unmakes stuff faster than people can make it. ' Month by month our lives spiral forth into the future, with each moment shaping who we are and who we will become. It is no wonder that the pivotal years of adolescence, the stage of development classified by Erik Erikson as the Identity vs. Role Confusion stage, is fertile land for novels (if the nutrients of such land has been dried up from overuse of such topics is up for debate). Mitchell\u2019s Black Swan Green examines this tumultuous period of development, drawing from his own experiences at times, to track the to-and-fro of the formation of an identity caught in the gale storm winds of external pressures from society, politics and family drama. While this may seem like something we have all read before, Mitchell manages to deliver it through one of his unique, multi-faceted methods and posing this novel as the metafictional chapter of his oeuvre. The structure of this book is rather exciting, with each chapter functioning nearly as a stand-alone short story, ordered chronologically throughout one year of Jason Taylor\u2019s life. Starting and ending in January, we watch the progression of Taylor\u2019s identity during the trying stage when social cliques are formed (when one year everyone of the same gender in a class attends their peers birthday and the next year that person who invited you to their birthday won\u2019t even acknowledge you), and less-than-ideal physical or social traits make outliers of many youths. The pressures to fit in and the aggression of those who already do cause Jason\u2019s confidence to falter, demonstrating how easily we let outside forces shape what we are inside. Some of these forces are negative, yet there are many examples of positive reinforcement in the novel. What works best about the structure is that each individual chapter has Jason\u2019s personal path juxtaposed with that of a larger social theme. The family fallout, written with such scathing accuracy to demonstrate a failing marriage and shallow bickering that ensues, is detailed alongside the Falklands conflict, both being summed up beautifully by the sister in her explanation of a Pyrrhic victory during a family dinner. Another prime example is the juxtaposition of Jason\u2019s outsider status with his peers and the hatred towards the gypsy camp that moves just outside of town. Each one of Mitchell\u2019s previous novels has a major point where he lifts up the hood and allows the reader to examine the engine driving his narrative. Cloud Atlas has the multiple allusions to it\u2019s own structure, such as Frobisher explaining his sextet in a similar fashion as one would explain the novel, and number9dream had the wonderful \u2018Goatwritter tales\u2019 that explored Mitchell\u2019s literary goals. In Black Swan Green we have his meeting with Madame Crommelynck's \u00b9 and her lessons on beauty and on being an artist. \u2018 If you are not truthful to the world about who and what you are, your art will stink of falseness, \u2019 she instructs Jason. In effect, this novel is his truthful account of his life, exposing all his flaws, fears, failures and embarrassing moments in the name of truth and art. There is even a brief moment where the reader witnesses the creation of a rough draft for a previous chapter. The metafiction does not cease there, however, as this novel contains much of Mitchell\u2019s own life, particularly his overcoming of his stammer. Ironically though, could it be seen as Mitchell still hiding behind false pretenses and using Jason as his mouthpiece, thus missing the point of Madame Crommelynck\u2019s teachings? That, dear reader, is for you to decide. If each of his novels has a metafictionally-revealing section, this novel serves as the metafictional novel to his oeuvre. As much of BSG focuses on the dangers and consequences of people operating with a closed, or selfish mind, Mitchell shows how much of the hardships in our lives could be alleviated if people just took the time to understand each other, to shoulder the burden of taking the right path instead of the easy path that burns a lot of good people in the process. He shows how those with power, such as the city council, or the nation with the stronger army, or even just the popular kids at school, will always use such power to ensure those beneath them stay there. \u2018I want to bloody kick this moronic bloody world in the bloody teeth over and over till it bloody understands that not hurting people is ten bloody thousand times more bloody important than being right.\u2019 This line from Jason echoes a message that permeates through all of Mitchell\u2019s novels. In Cloud Atlas, the abuse of power is present is a primary theme in each of the novels stories, as well as in Ghostwritten to a lesser extent. Even Number9dream toys with the ideas of power and the struggle for it. It is as if Mitchell took the events from his own upbringing and inflated the lessons he learned to the larger scope of society and the overall human condition. It could even be argued that Mitchell\u2019s own coming-of-age story was skewed and spun with larger literary themes into Number9dream, which further excuses him of his repeat visits to the bildungsroman theme. There are several common complaints about this novel, and each one admittedly valid, yet I felt this novel still accomplished the goals set out for it and not by overlooking these shortcomings, but by trying to further understand them. Mitchell often preempts his criticisms and addresses them within the novel. Cloud Atlas, in particular, has Mitchell ridiculing critics in general through his slimy Miles Finch character, and addresses those who would see the book as nothing but mere gimmick. While Jason Taylor is fleshed out wonderfully with a whole repitoir of English jargon and juvenile slang, the narrative is often delivered through lush descriptions, complex metaphors and an insight into his situations that come across as overly mature for a boy of 13. To assuage such criticisms, Jason is written to have a precocious sense of literature and poetry. While it never comes right out and says it, his talents are hinted at being prodigious, or just so enough to reach the attention of Madame Crommelynck who is said to have a sharp eye for extreme talent (she did see the genius behind the insanity in Frobisher in CA). The reader can choose to accept this argument or not, however, Mitchell does not stop there in his attempts at believability. Much of the lush description teeters into the territory of over-writing, something that a young, unfocused writer often clings to. It isn\u2019t until the end of the novel that the supposed self-written tale of Jason Taylor is executed in crisper, well-executed prose to demonstrate that Taylor is beginning to finally come into his own as the purveyor of truthfulness that he has been taught to be mark of the true artist. Once again, the novel does rely on the acceptance of these techniques and this does not satisfy everyone. Then again, I may just be an apologist since I really do appreciate Mitchell hope for his success. Mitchell\u2019s novel fall into a strange zone of literature that is both beneficial and problematic for him as an author. His novels are an interesting amalgamation of easily digestible plots, literary theory, fireworks and fantastic writing. This blend, which I have come to refer to as Literary Pulp, is most apparent in Cloud Atlas, and a further investigation into the terms implications can be found here \u00b2. Mitchell positions himself as a sort of literary gateway drug, pulling younger readers, or readers with more of an inclination towards plot-driven novels, into the wide wonderful wilderness of literature. Perhaps this is why I forgive some of his more \u2018gimmicky\u2019 techniques. The \u2018mind-blowing\u2019 big twists, ideas, structure or overall-appearances-of-texts type of gimmicks are something that really grabs many people, particularly those referenced a moment ago. Chuck Palahniuk reached fame in a similar fashion through attempting for the \u2018mind blow\u2019 and other gimmicks, and while he was an author that lead me into bigger, better authors such as Don DeLillo and Pynchon, he never had enough literary flavor of his own to keep my eye on him for very long. Mitchell comes across more like the overly excited professor that just wants you to love books as much as he does and is willing to sacrifice some of his literary merit with the higher brow to draw in a crowd of readers who would otherwise stay away from the higher brow literature. In Cloud Atlas, for example, someone who loved the Somni story is more or less instructed to seek out books like Brave New World while the Adam Ewing story borrows the style of Herman Melville to turn heads his way. Even in this book, Mitchell references many great writers such as T.S. Elliot or Chekov, references Madame Bovary (which he did in n9d as well) and offers a massive listening list of a wide variety of great musicians. This book would fits in nicely on a shelf for those who like higher literature, or would be just as at peace next to a book like The Perks of Being a Wallflower \u00b3, however being an excellent gateway for someone of the latter category to continue a pursuit of literature. Mitchell\u2019s Literary Pulp method is a great way of reaching out, but it does garner a great deal of negative criticism for doing just that. As someone who hopes to go on into teaching, I find Mitchell to be a useful example of how to get people excited about books. Now that he has achieved recognition, he was able to move away from the more gimmicky methods to write something more subdued such as BSG and Thousand Autumns. I think there is a bright horizon for Mitchell if he continues to grow and push forward. Although I read this book just over six months ago, it has not left my mind and recently I have spent a great deal of time fighting back the bleakness of the factory by over-analyzing this novel. Spending a year with Jason Taylor really endears the reader towards David Mitchell, as they quickly realize much of the stories are based on his own life. However, I would not recommend it as a first Mitchell read, seeing as it is a sort of commentary on the previous novels. Even if you disliked his earlier works, I would still recommend giving this novel a try, as it is a strong departure from his usual style. As the novel comes to a close, the reader sees life as a continuing spiral instead of something made of many beginnings and endings. It ends on the minor key, that angsty note that demands one final chord for completion and resolution, but Mitchell leaves the readers mind to fill that note in. We are left feeling things could get better, but to resolve everything would be to cheapen the story and to cheapen the actual course life takes. This is not a perfect novel, and has many aspects that leave a bad taste in the mouth of many well-read individuals (please browse GR, there are many with better tastes and insight than I that found a lukewarm reception in this book), yet I feel that Mitchell does an excellent job of covering his tracks. Simply put, and in the words of Jason Taylor, this book is \u2018 ace in the face! \u2019. 4.5/5 \u00b9 Readers of Cloud Atlas will remember her as Eva, the love interest of Robert Frobisher. Fans of CA are treated to an alternative perspective on Frobisher\u2019s behavior and genius. Other characters that make a cameo in BSG are Neal Brose, of Ghostwritten, and Gwendolyn Bendincks, who stayed at the old folks home in CA. \u00b2 Please forgive my shameful self-promotion, but it would be far too time/space consuming to revisit the argument in proper detail here. The ideas of Literary Pulp are also prominent in the Goatwritter section of n9d as well. \u00b3 I in fact recommended this book to my sister after she finished that novel, citing many similarities between the two. Both deal with a coming-of-age, musical tastes, and overcoming personal hardships, yet BSG is accomplished without the melodramatic angst and emotion that teenagers seem to thrive on. This book is also similar to Murakami w/r/t the constant allusions to songs, the great Murakami being a major influence on Mitchell (what? This review and the footnotes have been a blatant rip-off of DFW? Surely you Jest) \u2018 A Pyrrhic victory is one where you win, but the cost of winning is so high that it would\u2019ve been better if you\u2019d never bothered with the war in the first place. Useful word, isn\u2019t it? So, Jace. Looks like we\u2019re doing the dishes again. \u2019 ...more I think it was the summer between eighth and ninth grades that I had an absolutely hellish summer camp experience.* For whatever reason I got branded as the person to pick on and just about everything that I did was turned into a series of 'jokes' at my expense. I haven't thought of this experience in quite sometime, it's sort of one of those things that I just don't dwell on, but it was one of those times that seriously fucked me up. Some of the taunting that Jason Taylor goes through in this b I think it was the summer between eighth and ninth grades that I had an absolutely hellish summer camp experience.* For whatever reason I got branded as the person to pick on and just about everything that I did was turned into a series of 'jokes' at my expense. I haven't thought of this experience in quite sometime, it's sort of one of those things that I just don't dwell on, but it was one of those times that seriously fucked me up. Some of the taunting that Jason Taylor goes through in this book kind of reminded me of this particular time. The early 80's English world that the book takes place in is slightly different from my own experience though, maybe it's the British class thing, but the kids in this book fall into particular positions and there is little mobility out of being an insider or outsider. My own particular experience was that the people tormenting were people I considered friends who turned particularly nasty, and they would swing back to being friends and back to tormentors again. Thinking about many of my experiences growing up, I realize that a lot of kids I knew, especially neighborhood kids, my relationships with many of them were hazy blurs of being friendly, being at war, being friendly again, and maybe even being bullied by them. And I wonder why I've had no desire to ever seek out friends after I moved away from New Jersey. I had some mixed feelings doing into this book. Besides Cloud Atlas , none of David Mitchell's books have ever called to me. I mean, when I see or saw them for the first time and read what they are about I don't feel any desire to read them. But, I've enjoyed the two Mitchell books I've read. Lots of goodreads people I know just love him and they are generally people whose opinions I respect (or at least I like their opinions because their opinions line up with my opinions on many book related areas, and it's only natural to think that people who agree with you are smarter than the other philistines who don't agree with you about these sorts of things, right?). I had bought this from the Salvation Army a couple of years back and it's been sitting on my shelf, and it happened to be sitting on the bookshelf that was next in my sort of sporadic, 'pick a book from the next bookshelf / pile of books' so that I can read books I bought at various times, instead of just reading the books I've recently bought and ignoring the hundreds of old-unread books, and because Cloud Atlas was just released as a Major Motion Picture I thought I'd read some Mitchell and when I write a review I'd probably get some extra attention because Mitchell is kind of hot right now. So that is why I read the book. And I figured a coming of age story in his hands might be interesting. It was, but it was also nothing that I hadn't read before. The story is a year in the life of a kid growing up in the early 1980's. It's the year of the Falkland's conflict (war?), something I know very little that doesn't come from Crass lyrics and images (\"How does it feel?\"). It's the rise of Thatcher, and of continuing economic troubles in the UK. Actually all of this sounds like like a Crass album. Except that those things are all going on in the background, and it's about the more general thing of growing up, getting picked on by your peers, about trying to figure out how to do what is right / staying true to yourself and still fitting in with the cool kids (or at least not getting beat up by them). I probably liked the book more than my three star rating would make it seem. I think part of the problem was that I was expecting a more interesting narrative, or structure to the story from Mitchell. This was a fairly straight-forward coming of age story. Maybe there isn't a lot that can be done with this particular genre, but this book didn't feel like it really stood out from other movies and novels I've consumed. I think that my lowish star rating is also how I feel the book stands up to the other books of Mitchell's I've read, and as a kind of reaction to the gushing praise that is splashed all over the front and back cover of this book. This was one of the top ten books of the year by the New York Times ? Really? Was it a slow year in literature? The last couple of chapters in the book didn't help save the book for me, either. I was already feeling like the book was nothing spectacular when this happened. I'll save spoiling anything, but things started to feel a little unrealistic for the way things had been going in the book. I'd probably recommend reading something by John Green if you want to read about precious slightly loser-ish teen boys navigating their adolescence. But there really isn't anything wrong with this book, it just never really did much for me though. *Summer camp experiences for my own edification 1984 - One week away. Almost sent home for learning how the simple joy of making a blow torch using matches and aerosol bug spray. Forced to do some push-ups as punishment and got screamed at a lot by some jock asshole counselor. 1985 - I'm fairly certain I figured out how not to go to summer camp this year. 1986 - Went to the hellish summer camp for one week. Learned what a gang-bang was through an immature song my tent-mate sung constantly. Almost died rappelling and contracted food poisoning from eating raw chicken. Also spent most of the week in the pouring rain. Built character, I guess. 1987 - Went to the nice summer camp. Woke up every morning at around 5 AM to take field notes for a merit badge, discovered a beaver dam and watched a beaver swim around every morning. An enjoyable experience. Learned that I don't like boats at all and I have no skill in using them except for capsizing them. I also learned that playing a game where two teams fight each other in the water for control over a greased watermelon is stupid. I'm also inept at blowing up my clothes in the water. 1988 - Back to the hellish summer camp. I'm fairly certain that these two weeks are responsible for a host of my 'problems' of dealing with other people as a normal person. Swam a mile. Crashed a motor boat. Went on one of the worst trips ever. I guess this built character. 1989 - Last year of summer camp. Back to the nice camp. Almost stepped on a rattlesnake. ...more David Mitchell is known for dazzling innovation and dizzying ambition. Intricately structured novels such as Cloud Atlas and Ghostwritten are grand kaleidoscopes of intersecting voices and places. This book is a change of pace, however. It focuses on a single character in a single location. But despite its narrowed scope, it is no less powerful or captivating than his other works. Jason Taylor is our hero, a thirteen-year-old boy in the sleepy middle-class town of Black Swan Green, Worcestershire David Mitchell is known for dazzling innovation and dizzying ambition. Intricately structured novels such as Cloud Atlas and Ghostwritten are grand kaleidoscopes of intersecting voices and places. This book is a change of pace, however. It focuses on a single character in a single location. But despite its narrowed scope, it is no less powerful or captivating than his other works. Jason Taylor is our hero, a thirteen-year-old boy in the sleepy middle-class town of Black Swan Green, Worcestershire. On the surface all is well - he is a clever kid who has had poetry published in a local magazine, his family live in a wealthy estate and he has a loyal best friend in Dean Moran. But trouble is bubbling underneath. He is struggling to fit in at school, his stammer is becoming worse and lately his parents don't seem to be getting on with each other. And that's not to mention the ever-present threat of bullies, plus the head-scratching mystery of girls. 1982 will prove to be a tumultuous year in Jason's life and we have a front-row seat. It seems quite a personal tale, in some aspects at least. Mitchell grew up in a similar Worcestershire town and would have been the same age as Jason at this time. He has also spoken openly about his own struggles with a speech impediment. Jason refers to the mental block he experiences when speaking as a Hangman which robs him of his words. The intense anguish and embarrassment it causes him is extremely moving. It opened my eyes to the trauma and suffering that a person with a speech disorder goes through. Mitchell has described this book as a kind of catharsis for him: \"I\u2019d probably still be avoiding the subject today had I not outed myself by writing a semi-autobiographical novel, Black Swan Green, narrated by a stammering 13 year old.\" We've all encountered coming-of-age stories before but this one is different. It understands the true anxieties of adolescence better than anything else I've read. It's also a love letter to the early 80s and Mitchell clearly remembers this period fondly, with myriad references to The Rockford Files, Big Trak, Angel Delight and the like. It makes me pine for a more innocent time, when simple pleasures were enough to satisfy, instead of the hyper-connected world we now live in. Black Swan Green is a nostalgic delight, a gorgeous and vibrant account of that volatile first teenage year. ...more Just as I opened the cover of the book, I was hit by a barrage of praise for the book comments. May be I should have stopped right there. But I didn't. Hence this review. When I watch a Hollywood movie or a TV show involving American schools, I see schoolkids overly concerned with social status and pecking order. There are these popular and cool kids, then there are nerds and other such stereotypes. They have to constantly worry about whose parties they get invited to, who they are seen talking t Just as I opened the cover of the book, I was hit by a barrage of praise for the book comments. May be I should have stopped right there. But I didn't. Hence this review. When I watch a Hollywood movie or a TV show involving American schools, I see schoolkids overly concerned with social status and pecking order. There are these popular and cool kids, then there are nerds and other such stereotypes. They have to constantly worry about whose parties they get invited to, who they are seen talking to in public, what table they sit at during lunch, which co-curricular activities they participate in. It's their \"coolness points\" that are stake here. If you don't wear make-up or fancy clothes, no one wants to talk to you. If you are fat or wear braces, you are at risk of being an outcast. Geez, kids. Take it easy, will ya?! Who is teaching these kids to be so class-conscious? Who is teaching them to be so judgmental and critical of each other - that too based on superficial factors? Who is teaching them that they need to try to be someone they are not? Why can't kids just be kids? I once asked some of my American colleagues if their school lives were anything like what they show in movies. They told me that what they show in movies is highly exaggerated. As expected. But some kind of social hierarchy can be seen, however vaguely, in real life schools too. Our school life was just so different. Admittedly it has changed a bit by now, given I have been out of high school for almost 10 years. But things were, and are, so much simpler. And I wish they would be simple for Jason too. I understand him being conscious about his stammer. But I wish he didn't have to worry about being a social pariah for being a stammerer. And why don't his parents even attempt to make him feel comfortable and assure him that at least at home he doesn't need to feel shy? His dad's face turns a shade darker if the topic of stammering comes up. His mom talks about it in hushed tones to Aunt Alice. By avoiding the topic, the only message they are sending across is that they are embarrassed by Jason's problem and so should be Jason. Poor Jace the ace! I have all the sympathy for Jason, as will any other reader. Because Mitchell didn't leave us any other choice. If the characters aren't complex, the reader's emotional response to them is pretty much pre-defined. Jason is just a western adolescent boy, trying to be a regular western adolescent boy and a bunch of problems befall him through no fault of his own. What is a reader going to say - \"Take that, you ape!\"? Nope. And all the middle school drama - no thanks. Right off the bat, Jason establishes the social order. There are these rules about how you don't say no to cigarette if an \"upper class\" kid offers it to you. You can't say no to playing a game you hate, because that makes you look weak. There are detailed scenes about one schoolkid fighting another. Haven't we heard this story so many times before? This has to be one of the better written books on this topic though. I liked Mitchell's writing, but he needs to decide if it is a 13 year old boy who is narrating or a 35 year old man. The narrator is too eloquent and insightful for a 13 year old. I would give Mitchell the benefit of the doubt and assume that it's the adult Jason who is narrating the 13th year of this life. But then he keeps using teenage slang too. Well....? ...more Rating: 1.5* of five (p66) Strike one: Teenaged protagonist. Strike two, and ball one of strike three: Majgicqk. Or something like it. Strike three: David Mitchell's writing reminds me of all the MFA program writing I've ever read. I thought The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet and Cloud Atlas were disorganized, and NO I did NOT misunderstand the fractured POV he used, I thought he did a poor job of executing it, and I found the preciosity of his phrasemaking in each of the three books I've either Rating: 1.5* of five (p66) Strike one: Teenaged protagonist. Strike two, and ball one of strike three: Majgicqk. Or something like it. Strike three: David Mitchell's writing reminds me of all the MFA program writing I've ever read. I thought The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet and Cloud Atlas were disorganized, and NO I did NOT misunderstand the fractured POV he used, I thought he did a poor job of executing it, and I found the preciosity of his phrasemaking in each of the three books I've either read through or Pearl Ruled unpleasant to the point of actual snort of derision coming out of me as I read. I don't think he's a good writer, I don't like the story he told here (which has nothing to do with him, only to do with my response), and I won't be reading more stuff like this: The first torrent of vomit kicked a GUUURRRRRR noise out of me, and poured on the muddy grass. In the hot slurry were bits of prawn and carrot. Some'd got n my splayed fingers. It was warm as warm rice pudding. More was coming, Inside my eyelids was a Lambert and Butler cigarette sticking out of its box, like in an advert. The second torrent was a mustardier yellow. I guppered for fresh oxygen like a man in an airlock. Prayed that was the last of it. Then came three short, boiling subslurries, slicker and sweeter, as if composed of the Baked Alaska. If you can make a kid puking tedious, brother, you can make ANYthing tedious. And he does. Poke me with a fork, I'm done. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License . ...more I have failed to understand why this novel is sometimes disregarded even by Mitchell\u2019s admirers. Because Mitchell accustomed us with his earlier works to something more bizarre and flamboyant ? Because Black Swan Green is so \u2026 ordinary ? Adolescence is a real torture , especially for sensitive , smart but morbidly lacking of self-confidence one . And so Jason is . Thirteen-year-old from some jerkwater town , struggling with own deficiencies and fears . In some respects Jason has really rough ti I have failed to understand why this novel is sometimes disregarded even by Mitchell\u2019s admirers. Because Mitchell accustomed us with his earlier works to something more bizarre and flamboyant ? Because Black Swan Green is so \u2026 ordinary ? Adolescence is a real torture , especially for sensitive , smart but morbidly lacking of self-confidence one . And so Jason is . Thirteen-year-old from some jerkwater town , struggling with own deficiencies and fears . In some respects Jason has really rough times : he\u2019s stammering and at all costs attempts to hide it before schoolmates , besides , horror of horrors ! he's writing poems , what is considered as ... Well , Writing poems is . . . what creeps and poofters do . It\u2019s so easy to become an object of mockery. In his home there is no better , bad relationships with older sister and hanging over head parents' divorce. And all this in Thatcher's England , times of recession , with the ongoing absurd Falklands war in the background. This traditional story captivates by its simplicity. Nuanced , amusing and compassionate at the same time . Accurate and irresistibly funny description of adults : sarcastic mother, intelligently mischievous sister, snobbish uncle, ironic cousin Hugo . The tragicomic deliberations on whom stutterer can become , as for sure not a lawyer , maybe a lighthouse keeper ? Soliciting for recognition in the peer group , dread of rejection and to be an object of ridicule and bullying described with tact and humour . Thirteen , wonderfully unhappy age. Neither child nor teenager. Black Swan Green then is a poignant , bitter-sweet farewell to childhood. ...more I remember describing this book to a coworker: Me: \"It's about this little stuttering English kid who lives out in some little village during the Thatcher era, and sort of like, his coming of age kind of experiences?\" Coworker: \"Oh God, that sounds awful.\" Me: \"No! I mean, I know it sounds awful the way I just explained it, but the book's actually really, really great!\" Two days later.... Me: (privately, to self) \"Oh, God, this is awful.\" I don't know what happened! This book started out really amazin I remember describing this book to a coworker: Me: \"It's about this little stuttering English kid who lives out in some little village during the Thatcher era, and sort of like, his coming of age kind of experiences?\" Coworker: \"Oh God, that sounds awful.\" Me: \"No! I mean, I know it sounds awful the way I just explained it, but the book's actually really, really great!\" Two days later.... Me: (privately, to self) \"Oh, God, this is awful.\" I don't know what happened! This book started out really amazing me, seeming superficially like one of those written-a-trillion-times quaint period piece preadolescent-boyhood novels, but somehow defied the genre and was just so wonderfully written and insided this kid's head and about a thousand times better than it had any right to be..... But then somehow, midway through, it tipped and twisted and turned into the most cliched, precious, tiresome crap I've read in awhile. Is that too harsh? Yeah. But it did suddenly get completely stupid, I'm pretty sure. It went from being this wonderfully phrased little shimmering gem with terrific dialogue, into... well, okay, spoiler alert: in the second half of this novel, the little boy meets an eccentric old lady who teaches him to believe in himself, copes with his parents' divorce, learns to overcome prejudice by befriending gypsies, stands up to bullies, gets his first kiss, and learns a few lessons about love and loss. Happily, our little hero Jason neatly resolves at least one of Erik Erikson's developmental stages and gains mastery over his environment, moving several strides closer to manhood in the great game of Life! If this sounds good to you, be my guest and pick up a copy of _Black Swan Green_. If you can't find this book, that's okay, because there are countless others which are very similar, many of them written for a young audience. Okay, I'm a big jerk, and it really wasn't so terrible... But if you're interested in the coming-of-age experiences of little British boys in crappy towns during the Falklands war, I suggest you go see the movie _This is England_, which has not just a much fresher take, but also a better soundtrack. ...more A Spelling Test I kept this book on the shelf for a few years, before thinking I was ready to read it. I didn't want to break the spell of the first two David Mitchell books that I had read (I didn't really like Cloud Atlas) and I was a bit apprehensive about the subject matter of a young teenage boy. Ultimately, it was very much a book of two halves for me. Teenage Mates Land The first half captured male teenagerdom in the period in the 60's and 70's (when I grew up) and the 80's (when Jason grew A Spelling Test I kept this book on the shelf for a few years, before thinking I was ready to read it. I didn't want to break the spell of the first two David Mitchell books that I had read (I didn't really like Cloud Atlas) and I was a bit apprehensive about the subject matter of a young teenage boy. Ultimately, it was very much a book of two halves for me. Teenage Mates Land The first half captured male teenagerdom in the period in the 60's and 70's (when I grew up) and the 80's (when Jason grew up) perfectly. It was the tail end of a period of Empire, Britannia Rules the Waves, Scouting for Boys, Biggles books and playing British Bulldog. It had nearly died by the time of Punk Rock for me, but it had one last inglorious revival when Maggie Thatcher invaded the Falklands, before deflating altogether, so much so that Tony Blair couldn't even revive it. Teenage Wasteland The trouble and the troubles set in in the second half. Things start to challenge the relative security of Jason's adolescent world view. Girls, gangs, crime, conflict, insecurity, parental estrangement, divorce. Teenage Resolution The problem is that the two halves are juxtaposed, but not sewn together in a narrative that resolves them in any way. It's like a photo album with two photos of the one boy at different ages. In one, he's fresh-faced and enthusiastic, in the next he's pimply and troubled. The reader might know or guess what comes next, but David Mitchell stops short of telling us. I can't help thinking that, if Jason was important enough to care about, David Mitchell could have finished off the story. ...more This warm and big-hearted coming-of-age tale of a 13-year old boy, Jason Taylor, set in rural south central England in the early 80\u2019s has plenty of charm. It\u2019s sweet, but not sappy. Its magic lies in the capturing of innocence of that age at that time and place, from the electricity of a first kiss and sickness from a first cigarette to the pull of dancing to the Talking Heads and of jingoistic feelings inspired by Maggie Thatcher\u2019s war for the Falkland Islands. The dark side of things in this s This warm and big-hearted coming-of-age tale of a 13-year old boy, Jason Taylor, set in rural south central England in the early 80\u2019s has plenty of charm. It\u2019s sweet, but not sappy. Its magic lies in the capturing of innocence of that age at that time and place, from the electricity of a first kiss and sickness from a first cigarette to the pull of dancing to the Talking Heads and of jingoistic feelings inspired by Maggie Thatcher\u2019s war for the Falkland Islands. The dark side of things in this story are pretty mild. Mitchell isn\u2019t going for the drama of surviving that typically anguished period of life, the twisted impacts of a dysfunctional family, or a satirical expose of the British middle class. Instead, the overall effect of my read is a sense of adventure and empathy for this boy at the cusp between the handicaps of naivete and confidence of adult sensibilities. We do get the typical challenges of bullies and cliques at school. And the dawning of knowledge that his parents are hiding troubles in their marriage. The sad truth that his government can lie about the dangers and purposes of the war and that boys he knows can die needlessly there. And that sex may not be all it\u2019s cracked up to be. But the overwhelming challenge for Jason is his stammer. His brave struggle to deal with fears of ridicule and feelings of shame is wonderfully portrayed. He personifies the problem as the \u201cHangman\u201d, always waiting to catch him. He hasn\u2019t seen the movie we have, \u201cThe King\u2019s Speech\u201d. He can\u2019t imagine want job he might hold which would not require speaking: Being trapped in a monestary\u2019d be murder . How about a lighthouse keeper? All those storms, sunsets, and Dairylea sandwiches\u2019d make you lonely in the end. But lonely is something I\u2019d better get used to. What girl\u2019s go out with a stammerer? Or even dance with one? The last song at the Black Swan Green Village Hall Disco\u2019s be over before I could spit out D-d-d-you want to d-d-d-d-d- dance . Or what if I stammered at my wedding and couldn\u2019t even say \u201cI do\u201d? We root for him to get past all these hurdles and know that he will. It becomes evident that Jason\u2019s inner voice is too strong for him to fail. It spills out into secret poetry he submits under a pseudonym for the parish newsletter, and he continually harnesses his poetic ways of looking at the world through metaphors, myths, and hyperbole. The structure of the book is of thirteen chapters for thirteen months, each of which is like a short story on a theme. In each case, we see him growing up a little more before our eyes. In one chapter, he gets some brief tutoring on life and his poetic aspirations from an ancient Belgian \u00e9migr\u00e9, Eva. He confesses to keeping his writing secret because he doesn\u2019t want to be considered gay. She nails him with: \u201cYou are afraid the hairy barbarians will not accept you into your tribe if you write poetry.\u201d Though Mitchell leans mostly toward simple realism,, he periodically infuses some welcome comic relief, as here in this exchange with Eva: \u201c\u2026what are the writers you revere most greatly?\u201d \u201cOh.\u201d I mentally scanned my bookshelf for the really impressive names. \u201cIsaac Asimov. Ursula Le Guin. John Wyndham.\u201d \u201cAssy-smurf? Ursular Gun? Wind-\u2018em? These are modern poets?\u201d \u201cNo. Sci-fi, fantasy. Stephen King, too. He\u2019s horror.\u201d \u201c \u2018Fantasy\u2019? Pfffft! Listen to Ronald Reagan\u2019s homilies! \u2018Horror\u2019? What of Vietnam, Afganistan, South Africa? Idi Amin, Mao Tse-Tung, Pol Pot? Is not enough horror? I mean , who are your masters ? Chekhov?\u201d \u201cEr \u2026no.\u201d \u201cBut you have read Madame Bovary ?\u201d (I\u2019d never heard of her books.) \u201cNo.\u201d Each name climbed up the octave. \u201cHermann Hesse?\u201d \u201cNo.\u201d Unwisely, I tried to dampen Madame Crommelynck\u2019s disgust. \u201cWe don\u2019t really do Europeans at school ---\u201c \u201c \u2018Europeans\u2019? England is now drifted to the Caribbean? Are you African? Antarctican? You are European, you illiterate monkey of puberty! \u2026\u201d Another of the chapters treads a little along the lines of a boy-level parody of mythic adventures and quests in the woods of the Malvern Hills. But it\u2019s not far from the fantasy games and challenges we got up to in my rural youth decades earlier. Have a sample of the spooky poetry Jason\u2019s mind comes up with (a case where purple patch has a good excuse): Squeezing through a missing slat in a mossy fence, we found ourselves at the bottom of lumpy lawn. Molehills mounted up here and there. A big, silent mansion with turret things watched us from the top of the slope. A peardrop sun dissolved in a sloped pond. Superheated flies grandprixed over the water. Trees at the height of their blossom bubbled dark cream by a rotted bandstand. I admit I was a little disappointed not to have another advance in the art of the novel along the lines of \u201cCloud Atlas\u201d, but I got over that attitude. In a great 2010 interview in \u201cThe Paris Review\u201d, Mitchell explained: After doing a half Chinese-box, half Russian-doll sort of a novel, I wanted to see if I could write a compelling book about an outwardly unremarkable boy stuck in an outwardly unremarkable time and place without any jiggery-pokery, without fireworks\u2014just old-school. . I refer the curious reader to the same interview to learn how much this novel is autobiographical, and why the interviewer was led to remark: \u201cIt was perverse of you to write a first novel after having written three others.\u201d ...more Black Swan Green surfed out of David Mitchell after the literary ocean had swept up Cloud Atlas and smashed it repeatedly against the shore marked \"greatness\", where it burst open and loads of critical acclaim and literary awards came gushing out. I read Cloud Atlas first and managed to protect myself against the gushing geyser of praise by having a suitably large umbrella. Sadly my umbrella is mostly made of a thin but impermeable layer of cynicism so I didn't have as many lovely things to say Black Swan Green surfed out of David Mitchell after the literary ocean had swept up Cloud Atlas and smashed it repeatedly against the shore marked \"greatness\", where it burst open and loads of critical acclaim and literary awards came gushing out. I read Cloud Atlas first and managed to protect myself against the gushing geyser of praise by having a suitably large umbrella. Sadly my umbrella is mostly made of a thin but impermeable layer of cynicism so I didn't have as many lovely things to say about Cloud Atlas as many others did. This book made me re-evaluate the thoughts I'd had after reading Cloud Atlas although I still wasn't prepared to join in the gush-fest. Black Swan Green seemed to be more genuine read/ write and I've subsequently learned through the lazy joy of Wikipedia, that this is because it is semi-autobiographical. I also learned that this book is actually classed by some as YA lit which means that I've accidentally read my first YA novel without even realising. The epic Jason Taylor (maggot, unborn twin and Hangman)acts as narrator and humorous and self-depreciating tour guide to the events and landmarks which define a benchmark year in his young life. While the YA narrator, Jason Taylor clearly has more guile and experience than that of an actual teenager (he is after all the vehicle of the adult Mitchell, who presumably has the benefit of hindsight, not being a virgin etc) he still appears as a credible and likeable narrator. Part of me is tempted think, well how hard can it be to write about being a child? After all we were all children once, right? However creating a believable and even likeable teen protagonist is probably a lot harder than it seems so I have to give credit as at no point did I scoff at the plausibility of the narrator. In fact, despite myself I even enjoyed my own little trip down a retro memory lane because this book is laden with 1980s pop-culture references. As a child of the 80s myself I will proudly announce that I refused to have dinner until after I'd watched the A-Team and when I grew up I wanted to be Colonel John \"Hannibal\" Smith, aka George Peppard - at this point I clearly had not grasped core gender differences, but whatever. So what is the verdict? If you loved Cloud Atlas, you'll like this (spot the recurring characters po-mo style) and if you hated Cloud Atlas, well you might enjoy this despite yourself. I did. ...more I am officially a David Mitchell Fan Girl! Like \"screaming-howling-shrieking-frenzied\" Fan Girl. Even if he'll write product description on the package of consumer goods, I'll pay to read it. In every review of \"Black Swan Green\" I've read, the reviewer made sure to include some remark like \"This isn't nearly as ambitious as 'Cloud Atlas'\" or \"I was expecting this to be more like 'Cloud Atlas' and, like, it totally wasn't.\" And that's really not fair to BSG because the two books are delightful and beautiful in their own ways for different reasons. I had no idea what to expect from this book. I picked it up because I bloody love David Mitchell (and, yes, \"Cloud Atlas,\" which I do adore In every review of \"Black Swan Green\" I've read, the reviewer made sure to include some remark like \"This isn't nearly as ambitious as 'Cloud Atlas'\" or \"I was expecting this to be more like 'Cloud Atlas' and, like, it totally wasn't.\" And that's really not fair to BSG because the two books are delightful and beautiful in their own ways for different reasons. I had no idea what to expect from this book. I picked it up because I bloody love David Mitchell (and, yes, \"Cloud Atlas,\" which I do adore so very much, WAS my introduction to his brand of wonderful) and the beautiful things he does with language as both a wordsmith and a storyteller. So when the adolescent narrator mentioned his stammer the first time, my stuttering self needed a second to regroup. Seeing one of my favorite writers tackle a speech impediment much like the one I've struggled with since first grade? Yeah, it was a combination of a little too much at once and everything I wanted. And you know what? In less than 300 pages, thirteen-year-old Jason Taylor perfectly described all of the hang-ups and anxieties and fears and Catholic-sized guilt it's been taking me 20 years to figure out. It's intimidating to feel that in sync with a fictional pre-teen. But Jason Taylor is a young lad in early '80s England, so there's a lot going on both around and inside him; thus, his stammer -- our biggest commonality -- was not the central plot from which the story radiates. This book couldn't win me over solely on my overwhelming empathy for an invented youth -- though it certainly helped. Like the other Mitchell books I've read, BSG is, at its core, a series of intertwining vignettes (in this instance, each chapter represents a month in Jason's life for 13 consecutive months); the most obvious dissimilarity comes from how immediately apparent the connecting thread is. Instead of multiple narrative voices, Mitchell stuck to one this time -- with much success. Coming-of-age tales can be so damn onerous and so immersed in self-aggrandizing observations that reading them is as unpleasant as actually going through puberty again. Jason is such a charming, observant and conflicted child that I was taken with him at once. The truths he sprinkles throughout his narration are said with such reverence and awed discovery that it keeps the typically cloying sentiment found in lesser examples of the bildungsroman genre at bay. ...more Why is it that bad memories from adolescence never seem to fade away? I mean really, it's been a pretty long time since I was in junior high, yet there's certain times that those memories come flooding back to the point where it feels like all those events just happened yesterday. Being a shy, bookish type girl did not go over well in the junior high social scene, believe me. I remember one day getting off the bus after school, enduring more than the usual amount of name calling and laughing, wh Why is it that bad memories from adolescence never seem to fade away? I mean really, it's been a pretty long time since I was in junior high, yet there's certain times that those memories come flooding back to the point where it feels like all those events just happened yesterday. Being a shy, bookish type girl did not go over well in the junior high social scene, believe me. I remember one day getting off the bus after school, enduring more than the usual amount of name calling and laughing, when one of the \"cool\" girls who got off at the same bus stop told me not to listen to them, that they were just stupid jerks. Hearing that one nice comment gave me such a sense of relief, and made me realize that not everyone was a complete asshole. Thanks Heather Daniels, wherever you are. The point is, reading this book brought a lot of those memories back, but almost in a good way, not where they just make me cringe. Black Swan Green gives a glimpse into the life of Jason Taylor, a stammering, thirteen year-old growing up in a little village outside Worcestershire in the early eighties. While Jason goes through the normal trials of trying to fit in with the popular crowd, hiding his stammer as best he can, and tolerating middle-school torture, he witnesses and experiences so much actual life , it's amazing. Black Swan Green touches on love, death, beauty, war, family, politics, marriage, prejudice, and so much more, all through the eyes of a thirteen year-old boy. It made this book so much more powerful, knowing that the character himself couldn't even comprehend the magnitude and meaning of all of these life lessons at the time. I love David Mitchell's writing, and though this was different from Cloud Atlas or Ghostwritten , I think he did a great job at this coming-of-age novel. And, as a bonus, this book is full of British slang and expressions, which I will now insert and overuse in my vocabulary until I drive everyone around me crazy and they scream at me to stop. Not just British slang, eighties British slang. Heh. This'll be fun. ...more This is a children's book written for the adult mind. All of the horrors and torments of the regular youth, the fighting parents, the schoolyard bullies, the secrets, the shame, are written in such a way that memories of your own childhood will be conjured up, emotions fresh as if it were yesterday. Throughout the story, the main character has insights that are a mix of childhood imagination and innate wisdom, as he goes through the motions of the daily life and all of its consequences. It is a This is a children's book written for the adult mind. All of the horrors and torments of the regular youth, the fighting parents, the schoolyard bullies, the secrets, the shame, are written in such a way that memories of your own childhood will be conjured up, emotions fresh as if it were yesterday. Throughout the story, the main character has insights that are a mix of childhood imagination and innate wisdom, as he goes through the motions of the daily life and all of its consequences. It is a long, hard slog, with an end that while not triumphant is indeed a triumph; a child conquering what life throws at him and coming out of it bruised, but not broken. I extremely resent the fact that this is sometimes called the British Catcher in the Rye. That is one of the severest insults that exist in the literary world. ...more This is a beautifully written book but I'm going to make a contradictory statement here - it is not for me. Jason Taylor is a delightful boy, for most of the time that is, but my attention began to wander after a couple of chapters. The book did not fulfil my expectations. A quick skim through the book and then that was the end of that. A shame really as it held such promise initially. Perhaps I will try and reread it at some later stage in my life. 1) A novel written from the perspective, or in the voice, of an adolescent boy is nothing new. 2) A novel concentrating on the development of character through formative experiences, some of which are representative of the time he or she lives in, is nothing new. It is called a Bildungsroman. 3) A novel that highlights, or hints at, the fragility of family, or the frailty of marriage, is nothing new. Mitchell trods on these, and other, well-beaten paths, striving all the time to deliver us somethi 1) A novel written from the perspective, or in the voice, of an adolescent boy is nothing new. 2) A novel concentrating on the development of character through formative experiences, some of which are representative of the time he or she lives in, is nothing new. It is called a Bildungsroman. 3) A novel that highlights, or hints at, the fragility of family, or the frailty of marriage, is nothing new. Mitchell trods on these, and other, well-beaten paths, striving all the time to deliver us something fresh on each page. Does he succeed? The answer, it seems, will depend on how revelatory Mitchell's novel ends up being. This would require a deeper analysis. One needs to note the total effect a reading of 'Black Sean Green' has; and one needs, definitely, also to note the mechanics by which that effect is created. Let us approach the problem in the reverse. Let us start again with the three points I opened this review with and see how Mitchell presents them in this novel 1) Jason Taylor, the 12-13 year old protagonist, is a stammerer. His quest, as is revealed pretty early in the novel, is to become a non-stammerting stammerer, one who is able to evade or hide his defect, work around it, so to say. If one stops and ponder, this quest is not Taylor's alone. It is a universal quest. Life is - no question about it - about discovering the defects that you cannot do anything about, and working around them. But anyways... Mitchell provides details of Taylor's speech defect, presents to us his fears and struggles regarding it, and even uses it as a mood-setting tool in most conversations (Taylor stammers when he is nervous - the stammer makes him nervous). But what exactly is achieved from all of that? We can argue, with a cynicism I attibute to critics and find utterly loathsome, that by making the protagonist a stammerer Mitchell provides an easy justification for the excellent articulation which Taylor's voice assumes in the first-person narrative. But this is not the complete picture. The effort is directed elsewhere. Through the stammer, it is the innocence of the stammerrer, his inclination for simplicity, his dread of the emotionally engaging, that is established as the motif for the novel. Just as Taylor dreads some words that may incite his stammer, just as he dreads situations where his defect may be exposed, the novel steers clear, consistently, of facing the dreadful, horrible, undeniably painful confrontation with sad realities. Taylor's defect, then, is not a petty ruse to justify the language. It is the constraint Mitchell imposes on the protagonist, a constraint that actually becomes a shield for his innocence. Black Swan Green is a novel of aching innocence; innocence that becomes progressively aware of everything that threatens it, and protects itself; innocent not lost, but one the verge of getting lost, and fighting its last battles. How? By avoiding, by NOT TALKING of those things. Why? Well, if the veneer of innocence is lost, we are all exposed, aren't we? 2) Bildungsroman (and the subset called Kunstlerroman)is a different animal. The plot here is often not the gestalt of characters and surrounding and events and politics and history and philosophy and time (most importantly!) and the text (for Post-modernists!) that is present in many, in fact most, complex novels. One may imagine the plot of a Bildungsroman not as a complex yarn of a Nabokov novel, from which no threads can be pulled out, but as a rope that binds all elements together, taking strength from each thread and elongating itself, simply and easily, on the onward axis of time. Critical experiences happen to us arbitrarily. Therefore, it is neither uncommon, nor unnatural, for a Bildungsroman to unfold in episodes, short snippets of time where a major event of character-forming impact takes place. There is the question of epiphanies, too - a rapid change internalized in a short burst. That said, a Bildungsroman builds character layer by layer. What is learned in chapter 4 is added to Chapter 5. Incident upon incident the crust around the self of the protagonist hardens and he prepares to face the world. Now Mitchell is known to approach the novel in a staccato fashion. His unit of deliberation is most often the 'chapter' - as evinced in his earlier novel Cloud Atlas. The consequential ability of his chapters to stand independent from each other leaves him a distinct advantage for a Bildungsroman. What he manages exceptionally well is (A) The connections between the chapters, which stay strong yet underplayed, and (B) The absence of epiphany. Point B requires more deliberation from me. It is not that a 12-13 year old cannot be expected to have an epiphany, but the textual nature of that epiphany is bound to be lower than for a man at 20. By textual nature, I mean the thoughts in words. In Joyce's Portrait, the initial chapters concentrate more on Stephan's emotions rather than what theories he makes from his experiences. As we proceed we see more and more epiphanies. For a 12 year old experience leads to emotion, to thumb rules, but not to streams of thought that can be convereted to paragraph upon paragraph. It is, thus, the absence of a distended interior monologue, that adds credence to the novel. ...more David Mitchell is well on his way to becoming one of my favourite contemporary writers. He has an amazing ability to ventriloquise, to channel characters through his writing. Here, in this mash-up of The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole Aged 13 and Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man , he seems to be channeling his younger self, self-conscious British teenage speak warring with the compressed imagery of the developing poet: The lake in the woods was epic . Tiny bubbles were trapped in the ice like in David Mitchell is well on his way to becoming one of my favourite contemporary writers. He has an amazing ability to ventriloquise, to channel characters through his writing. Here, in this mash-up of The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole Aged 13 \u00be and Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man , he seems to be channeling his younger self, self-conscious British teenage speak warring with the compressed imagery of the developing poet: The lake in the woods was epic . Tiny bubbles were trapped in the ice like in Fox's Glacier Mints. A child of the period myself, Mitchell's 80's decade(nt) pop culture references were in themselves a thrill and a half: Dad's got an answering machine like James Garner's in The Rockford File with big reels of tape. But he's stopped leaving it switched on recently. Thirty rings, the phone got to. Julia couldn't hear it up in her converted attic 'cause \"Don't You Want Me?\" by Human League was thumping out dead loud. \u2026Dad's IBM sits on the steel desk. Thousands of pounds, IBMs cost. The office phone's red like a nuclear hotline and it's got buttons you push, not the dial you get on normal phones. Reading the novel at the end of the Age of Reatcher, the similarities with its beginning just felt uncanny: the Falklands War eerily prescient of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the 80's retrenchments and job losses seeing their counterpart in today's Great Recession. Black Swan Green falls into the genre of bildungsroman , and Mitchell charts Jason's emotional and mental growth over the period of a year--each chapter an episode in a month of that year--when his life goes through a more than usual teenage upheaval. He captures with high fidelity not just the images and episodes of the period but that peculiar condition of belonging to that savage tribe called \"Teenage Boy'Hood\": I call him \"Dean\" if we're on our own, but names aren't just names. Kids who're really popular get called by their first names, so Nick Yew's always just \"Nick\". Kids who're a bit popular like Gilbert Swinyard have sort of respectful nicknames like \"Yardy\". Next down are kids like me who call each other by our surnames. Below us are kids with piss-take nicknames like Moran Moron or Nicholas Briar, who's Knickerless Bra. It's all ranks, being a boy, like the army. If I called Gilbert Swinyard just \"Swinyard,\" he'd kick my face in. Or if I called Moron \"Dean\" in front of everyone, it'd damage my own standing. So you've got to watch out. Jason stutters. He calls his impediment \"Hangman\", and to escape the tribe's inevitable harassment, he learns to substitute words on the fly avoiding those that are tripping him up. This need hones his facility and love for words: My eye spidered over my poster of black angelfish turning into white swans, across over my map of Middle-earth, around my door frame, into my curtains, lit fiery mauve by my spring sun, and fell down the well of dazzle. This would all be a little precious and pretentious, but Mitchell avoids this trap, mixing the poet's startling observation with the teenager's trite banality: Autumn's fungussy, berries're manky, leaves're rusting, V's of long-distance birds're crossing the sky, evenings're smoky, nights're cold, autumn's nearly dead. I hadn't even noticed it was ill. I remember this. It was the strangest sense of d\u00e9j\u00e0 v(\u00e9c)u, reading this novel set in 1980's Britain. My boyhood was spent in a hot tropical city state, but that teenage displacement, that love for words and for writing, and for that making you the odd man out, that was my life too. And I loved this novel for bringing back to me those teenage days when with a casual twist bathos would invert to pathos or vice versa. ...more This is a very different outing from the previous two David Mitchell books I've read. Instead of interconnected tales, spanning time and space and genre, it's a very straight-forward novel about growing up in England in the 1980s. It's really good at what it does, though. Even if it did keep popping Adrian Mole into my head. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you ca This is a very different outing from the previous two David Mitchell books I've read. Instead of interconnected tales, spanning time and space and genre, it's a very straight-forward novel about growing up in England in the 1980s. It's really good at what it does, though. Even if it did keep popping Adrian Mole into my head. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more I can\u2019t wait to read more by this guy. It\u2019s clear how Mitchell has such devoted fans. The only word of advice I would give to anyone before reading this tremendous coming of age story is to choose not to be bothered about whether a 13-year-old boy could, in real life, be such a polished and insightful writer. Just enjoy the fact that Mitchell is. He\u2019s ace, as young Jason might say! There is little narrative drive, but Mitchell is pretty much my age and this is heavily autobiographical, so I enjoyed being transported to a fairly accurate version of a world I remember. I could imagine knowing someone like Jason, maybe even being him some of the time. The narration by a stuttering 13 year old boy is slightly reminiscent of Mark Haddon's Curious Incident , but not as convincing or interesting. It mentions specific 70s brands and products too deliberately - as if he's trying to There is little narrative drive, but Mitchell is pretty much my age and this is heavily autobiographical, so I enjoyed being transported to a fairly accurate version of a world I remember. I could imagine knowing someone like Jason, maybe even being him some of the time. The narration by a stuttering 13 year old boy is slightly reminiscent of Mark Haddon's Curious Incident , but not as convincing or interesting. It mentions specific 70s brands and products too deliberately - as if he's trying to make it understandable far in the future, not at all how such a boy would have described things at the time. Also, it makes it read rather like Nigel Slater's Toast and Andrew Collins' opposite of misery-lit, Where Did it All go Right? autobiogs, which at least had a more valid reason for so doing - and he does credit the latter. Overall, disappointing - even if not comparing it with his brilliant \"Ghostwritten\" and \"Cloud Atlas\". Uses his trick of inserting characters from other books: * Madame Crommelynck is the composer's daughter from Cloud Atlas * Neal Brose is a an entrepreneurial bully who becomes a major character in Ghostwritten * Number 9 Dream is a Beatles song that plays at a disco as well as being the title of another Mitchell book Number 9 Dream * The dodgy older cousin, Hugo Lamb, is a major character in The Bone Clocks ...more Reading Mitchell for me is like experiencing J.D. Salinger again in high school or Don Delillo or Murakami in college. There are certain books you feel the author has almost hand-feed you emotionally and intellectually. This might only be objectively a 4.5 star book, but bugger objectivity, I loved it. I think I am developing a serious author crush on David Mitchell. I am a 31 year old married woman and yet David (we're on a first name basis now because I've read two of his books, see) creates the 13 year old character of Jason Taylor in such a manner that Jason becomes EveryKid to me. I feel his adolescent pain, fictional construct though it may be, because I felt that kind of pain when I was a pre-teen. Once again, David brilliantly captures the spirit of his protagonist and the time through I think I am developing a serious author crush on David Mitchell. I am a 31 year old married woman and yet David (we're on a first name basis now because I've read two of his books, see) creates the 13 year old character of Jason Taylor in such a manner that Jason becomes EveryKid to me. I feel his adolescent pain, fictional construct though it may be, because I felt that kind of pain when I was a pre-teen. Once again, David brilliantly captures the spirit of his protagonist and the time through the excellent use of the vernacular. It's believable, it's real and it ain't The Queen's English, thank goodness. This novel won me over when it wham bam tied into the Frobisher story of \"Cloud Atlas\". It was a literary Easter Egg. At the time I read it, I had forgotten that the Frobisher vignette was possibly a \"fictional construct\" within the world of \"Cloud Atlas\" but since that novel was a fictional construct anyway, I guess I don't care too much that the Frobisher story was a fictional construct within a fictional construct thus rendering the possibility that *gasp!* Black Swan Green is a fictional construct, too. Tant pis! I don't know about the rest of you Mitchell fans, but I'm thinking he's creating his own fictionally constructed literary oeuvre to an ulterior end. Anyhow, back to Frobisher. I absolutely loved it when the old bat Crommelynck said of Frobisher's untimely self-inflicted demise, \"Robert was obsessed of recurrence eternal. Recurrence is the heart of his music. We live exactly the same life, Robert believed, and die exactly the same death again, again, again, to the same demisemequaver. To eternity.\" Bloody brilliant because it's so TRUE in this case, isn't it? Robert Frobisher WILL live the same life and die the same death again and again and again because David Mitchell wrote it and we read it. Frobisher will never die by anything other than a shotgun blast. In that same vein, Jason Taylor's parents will always get divorced. By picking up the story of a young boy and remembering (constructing!) his life through vignettes with themes important to most teenagers, I wonder if David Mitchell was trying to remind us that there are common life lessons that must be learned by everybody; social lessons that each generation must identify and conquer; and global issues that lead the inevitable demise of global empires. Basically, Mitchell is saying, history repeats itself because each person/generation/empire ignores, can't comprehend or deliberately forgets the lessons learnt by those who came before them. It seems themes of recurrence, and thus time, endings and beginnings, are a popular playground for David. I, for one, have permamnent dibs on the merry-go-round. ...more 3.5 stars Black Swan Green chronicles a year in the life of Jason Taylor. He lives in a small town, Black Swan Green, in Gloucestershire. He's thirteen. Life pretty much sucks. He has a stammer, one dorky friend, his parents are unhappy, and his older sister is moving away to college. But in all that, Jason sees life in a very different way than most people. He is a poet; a secret poet, since being a thirteen-year-old poet in 1980's England definitely wouldn't be ace. As we follow Jason through t 3.5 stars Black Swan Green chronicles a year in the life of Jason Taylor. He lives in a small town, Black Swan Green, in Gloucestershire. He's thirteen. Life pretty much sucks. He has a stammer, one dorky friend, his parents are unhappy, and his older sister is moving away to college. But in all that, Jason sees life in a very different way than most people. He is a poet; a secret poet, since being a thirteen-year-old poet in 1980's England definitely wouldn't be ace. As we follow Jason through the year, each chapter representing each month from January 1982-January 1983, we go on his adventures with him. Whether it be escaping the school bullies, meeting Madame <---C>Eva van Outryve de Crommelynck</---C> [a character only David Mitchell could name], or attending the annual Goose Fair, there are a lot of adventures to be had. Mitchell writes from a very personal background. I'm not sure how much of the book is autobiographical, but I know it's definitely inspired by Mitchell's own experiences. And I think the honesty, snark, and optimism with which Mitchell writes is evident in this story. It's not always cheery, but there is something of the hopeful in it. While it wasn't my favorite Mitchell, it is a wonderful coming-of-age tale that stands well on its own. And if you've read any Mitchell before, odds are you'll recognize a character or two throughout (he likes his characters to crossover). ...more David Mitchell has no idea of how an American sounds like. Annoying, the way eccentric characters are twirled into the story and twirled right back out. I guess those are my only two reservations about this book, a coming-of-age story that feels spot on. Books where I can see myself, that vibrate with shared experience or shadows of familiarity, those are the ones that can slice to the deepest quick. This isn't one of them, since I wasn't a smart boy who was 13 in 1982 in a small village in Englan David Mitchell has no idea of how an American sounds like. Annoying, the way eccentric characters are twirled into the story and twirled right back out. I guess those are my only two reservations about this book, a coming-of-age story that feels spot on. Books where I can see myself, that vibrate with shared experience or shadows of familiarity, those are the ones that can slice to the deepest quick. This isn't one of them, since I wasn't a smart boy who was 13 in 1982 in a small village in England with a stutter who had to navigate an intricate tangle of kid politics. But while my quick went uncut, this came as close as anything could. I loved the lessons learned, though it was a little heavy-handed in making sure we got it by spelling it out for the reader at the end of many of these little capsules in time, strung together to make up an eventful year in the lift of Jason Taylor. And while his immediate world around him went belly-up, I appreciated the happy ending in the form of gargantuan personal development. Also, funny bits, triumphant bits, soft in the heart bits. ...more David Mitchell must have the aim of writing something differently each time. I've heard that China Mi\u00e9ville 's aim is like that too... Either way it's very nice to see an author who tries to write in multiple genres rather than pigeon-holing himself as a fantasy, sci-fi or mystery writer. I must admit that the three star rating is because the subject matter is not my preferred. I'm into the epic (a phrase used in this book no less), the grand ideas that extend beyond a novel that envelop all huma David Mitchell must have the aim of writing something differently each time. I've heard that China Mi\u00e9ville 's aim is like that too... Either way it's very nice to see an author who tries to write in multiple genres rather than pigeon-holing himself as a fantasy, sci-fi or mystery writer. I must admit that the three star rating is because the subject matter is not my preferred. I'm into the epic (a phrase used in this book no less), the grand ideas that extend beyond a novel that envelop all humanity and this was an entertaining novel about a teenage boy's self discovery. While humorous it was hardly ever applicable to me, I've never been the kid who was picked on or who picked on others and if I was I knew how to ignore it and make others ignore me. The humour of the novel appealed to me to be sure but... Alright I'll spit out my judgement. It wasn't as profound or as interesting as the rest of Mitchell's novels. It was another growing up tale of self-discovery by a thirteen year old of which I have read plenty. And some were very excellent autobiographies like My Family and Other Animals which I recommend anyone reading this review look up for a laugh and some wonderful prose. I don't want to dismiss Black Swan Green as Mitchell claims it is one of his more personal novels (I've heard that he too has a speech defect so reading about that was nothing short of fascinating!). However, I'm not sure it's one of his best novels. However, that said, what I admire about Mitchell is still present n this book. Firstly, his virtuosity and grasp of the rules of language and ability to use those rules to tell stories are visible. Secondly, his meta-linguistic references are again present with Frobisher making an entry. Thirdly, the references to other novels and cultural icons are again visible. I love the fact that Mitchell's stories display how they have grown through other stories. It is stories that define us as in order to understand a sentence like 'The frog jumped in a lake' you must understand the idea (or story, if you'll excuse my hyper-extending the idea) behind that sentence. You must know what 'the frog' is and what 'jumping' is and what kind of an object a 'lake' might be. In the same way I think that in order to understand the novel we must be aware of the similar novels which have inspired novelists. Hence I'm ending my review on a short list of the novels/novelists I noted being referenced. Those people/works referenced that I've read Arctic Adventure Ted Hughes Anton Chekhov Franz Kafka John Wyndham Isaac Asimov Ursula K. Le Guin The Lord of the Rings Lord of the Flies T.S. Eliot Mikhail Bulgakov Victor Hugo Those people/works referenced I've yet to read The Old Man and the Sea Sim\u00f3n Bol\u00edvar Madame Bovary Ronald Reagan Hermann Hesse Thomas Mann Nikolai Gogol Marcel Proust Le Grand Meaulnes ...more rtc \u201cBlack Swan Green\u201d is a tender story about 13-year-old Jason Taylor and the challenges of adolescence. The teenage years can be tumultuous but significantly harder for Jason on account of a debilitating stammer. In Jason, Mitchell successfully created a young protagonist I quickly grew to love and wished to defend. He was having a tough time at school and even his older sister disdainfully referred to him as \"Thing\". But Jason was a bright kid with a gift of writing. Sadly for him, his poems, pu \u201cBlack Swan Green\u201d is a tender story about 13-year-old Jason Taylor and the challenges of adolescence. The teenage years can be tumultuous but significantly harder for Jason on account of a debilitating stammer. In Jason, Mitchell successfully created a young protagonist I quickly grew to love and wished to defend. He was having a tough time at school and even his older sister disdainfully referred to him as \"Thing\". But Jason was a bright kid with a gift of writing. Sadly for him, his poems, published under a pseudonym, were the only safe way to express himself. I felt Jason\u2019s distress when he had to read in front of his form assembly: \"By nine-fifteen my secret'll be spreading round the school like a poison-gas attack. By the end of first break my life won't be worth living.\" How poignant he had a name for his speech impairment - \"Hangman\". There was a mark of authenticity in Mitchell's portrayal of Jason's struggles, which carried echoes of Mitchell's own personal experience of living with a stammer as a child. Mitchell has a good ear for the language and conversation of teenage boys and working knowledge of teen culture. For Jason and his classmates, \"It's all ranks, being a boy, like the army.\" Mitchell understood developmental psychology. What was described is true of Erik Erikson's 5th stage of psychosocial development in which the search for identity predominates. The need to belong, to impress, to be adored was rendered very palpable. Jason wanted to be like his hunk of a cousin Hugo even though he realized how unkind, pretentious and dishonest he was. It was a treacherous age. Jason himself said it best in his confession to an unlikely elderly person: \"I'm a kid. I'm thirteen. You said it's a miserable age, being thirteen, and you're right. If you don't fit in, they make your life a misery.\" Jason navigated a subversive world in which playing nasty pranks raised popularity several notches instantly and also guaranteed membership into an inner circle of daredevils. I suppose the price to be paid for popularity or loyalty is magnified when you are thirteen. That world was also described with humor that flowed naturally from the wonder of inexperienced youth encountering their brave new world. It was sobering to think that school cannot be presumed to be a safe haven for some kids. The evil that youth were capable of was staggering. What the boys did reminded me of the antics of the children in Roddy Doyle's \"Paddy Clarke, Ha Ha Ha\" except the mischief in \"Black Swan Green\" was a lot more vicious. Jason and his lowlife peers were victims of horrific bullying and intimidation. I empathized with the boys' long suffering and helpless teachers who battled daily belligerence and disdain for school. Mitchell let on that behind the veneer of coolness, many teens led troubled lives. Dean Moran's father was a poisoned alcoholic; Ross Wilcox\u2019s father was a wife-batterer. Cracks too were showing in Jason's parents' marriage. In the larger background loomed the Falklands War and more intimately, the domestic battles in the Taylor household. For one so young, Jason had some keen insights borne of his parents' marital conflicts and blatant hostility toward each other: \"..not hurting people is ten bloody thousand times more bloody important than being right.\" There were a few chapters I loved. The first is \"Bridle Path\", a beautifully written chapter that documented a day Jason ventured out for a solitary walk to explore a tunnel. The prose on the charm of the countryside was exquisite. The second and the best was a lovely chapter titled \"Solarium\" that captured with supreme hilarity Jason's meeting with a toady Miss Havisham-like lady who had invited him to discuss his poems with her. It was wonderful to observe Madame Crommelynck providing excellent tutelage in literary criticism and summoning Jason out of his depths into greater self-knowledge and truthfulness. It was precious and exhilarating to read gem lines on literary composition. 1. \"If you are not truthful to the world about who and what you are, your art will stink of falsenesses.\" 2. \"True poetry is truth. Truth is not popular, so poetry also is not popular.\" (Interestingly too, there was reference to the sextet of Robert Frobisher - one of the characters in \u201cCloud Atlas\u201d. What lark! ) The third highlight was the excellent episode following Jason\u2019s \u201cgrassing\u201d on the bullies where Ms Lippetts (Jason's English teacher) led a discussion on secrets, the ethics of telling secrets, and reputation. Ms Lippetts aced that lesson! Jason's school and domestic worlds were in shambles and when the story ended challenges loomed ahead as he relocated to a new city to begin life anew with just one parent. But something tells me he will be all right. This is my second reading of \u201cBlack Swan Green\u201d and I enjoyed it as much as I did the first. Highly recommended for Mitchell fans who prefer a straight-forward narrative. ...more To hell with David Mitchell. A personal appeal from the author may get me to nudge my rating to four stars, because this is worth more than three, but he\u2019ll need to prepare ahead of time. This novel\u2019s story is pretty straightforward, but if you\u2019ve read anything else by Mitchell, you know he\u2019s capable of intricate meta-showmanship, the literary equivalent of a Prince performance when Prince chose to emphasize theatrics, may he RIP. Stuff a dossier full of scribbled notes, David, shove some marvel To hell with David Mitchell. A personal appeal from the author may get me to nudge my rating to four stars, because this is worth more than three, but he\u2019ll need to prepare ahead of time. This novel\u2019s story is pretty straightforward, but if you\u2019ve read anything else by Mitchell, you know he\u2019s capable of intricate meta-showmanship, the literary equivalent of a Prince performance when Prince chose to emphasize theatrics, may he RIP. Stuff a dossier full of scribbled notes, David, shove some marvelous explanations/citations down my throat, open my mind like a Renaissance. Lead me to water, sorry, because Black Swan Green has strengths, undoubtably, yet, I dunno, to what end? I felt something, there, here, but overall, I\u2019m looking for second helpings. Jason Taylor is thirteen. I can\u2019t believe I thought this, but I actually wondered, not throughout but near the end, if David Mitchell would have written a better story if he\u2019d aimed it at young adults. It\u2019s possible, I thought, that this story would work better that way, that maybe David Mitchell should have prepared by reading more YA. Yes, I\u2019m saying that! I sometimes read YA, and when I do, I often miss adults and crave something - ahem, how do I say this without attracting trolls? - I often crave something more mature next, so it was a shock to think that this story, this prose, the voice, might work better had Mitchell stirred in whatever YA authors stir in. I can\u2019t figure out what exactly, so David, let me know if you know what I mean? Of the two of us, you\u2019re better at the meta-analysis. Not to say I did not enjoy lots of this. I didn\u2019t grow up in England a stammerer. I didn\u2019t grow up a stammerer at all. But how does Mitchell remember so much about being thirteen? Jason must deal with more bullies and more bull-malarkey than I did, but I recognized a lot, like the one-upmanship and Hugo in the second chapter (so don\u2019t give up on this novel until after the third chapter, at least). Other gems: mixing in responsibility and guilt with an heirloom subplot; a sublime use of kids\u2019 love of urban legends; bumping into a girl named Dawn while he explores a rural route called the Bridlepath; the use of Miss Lippetts late in the story; the feel even later in the novel of an 80s movie that, though different, somehow foreshadows Ready Player One ; Holly Deblin; and finally how Jason\u2019s relationship with his Dad does not crowd out other elements of the story but does culminate at the end, like a swirl of cream rising to the surface of a cup of coffee. Wow, I\u2019m tempted to add that fourth star because that list is gold, but like Jonathan Franzen, David Mitchell\u2019s had it too easy. To hell with both of them. ...more David Mitchell tries to do something very ambitious in this novel. He writes about the life of a thirteen year old as if it were the thirteen year old writing, not some slightly older version of that person who can look back with wisdom and smile gently at his callow thirteen year old self. The narrator here is Jason, both a poet and a stammerer, and typically of thirteen year olds, liable to veer wildly between the acute and the cute, between great perception and great naivety, between longing David Mitchell tries to do something very ambitious in this novel. He writes about the life of a thirteen year old as if it were the thirteen year old writing, not some slightly older version of that person who can look back with wisdom and smile gently at his callow thirteen year old self. The narrator here is Jason, both a poet and a stammerer, and typically of thirteen year olds, liable to veer wildly between the acute and the cute, between great perception and great naivety, between longing to blend in and longing to be different. Mitchell sets this in the year of the Falklands War and spends a lot of time in getting the little details of 1982 just right, the pop songs, the TV programmes, the tacky food snacks. Sometimes that can be a little irritating, but in general I found Jason\u2019s voice utterly convincing. Mitchell\u2019s ambition is fully realised. Moving, enjoyable. ...more", "Title": "Black Swan Green"},
