{"Comments": "\"Hotel at the Corner of Bitter and Sweet\" is as saccharine and overly sentimental as the title suggests. It is historical fiction for the Nicholas Sparks set -- an emotionally heavy-handed novel that is well told, but not particularly well written. There are some diamonds in the rough, though: the historical aspects of the novel are very interesting; the relationships depicted in the book,<---M> while not always believable</---M>, are complex; and, the issues related to cultural identity and racial discrimin \"Hotel at the Corner of Bitter and Sweet\" is as saccharine and overly sentimental as the title suggests. It is historical fiction for the Nicholas Sparks set -- an emotionally heavy-handed novel that is well told, but not particularly well written. There are some diamonds in the rough, though: the historical aspects of the novel are very interesting; the relationships depicted in the book, while not always believable, are complex; and, the issues related to cultural identity and racial discrimination in the States during WWII are very well detailed. All in all, \"Hotel\" is a great story couched in an okay novel. Ford is a promising writer who, I feel, needs to trust his readers more. That is, he needs to let us feel without trying SO hard to manipulate those feelings. ...more Original review posted: Mar 19, 09 I have to admit that I did not like this book. Mr. Ford is a decent writer, and while he did research 1942 fairly extensively, he did a crappy job portraying 1986.<---F> I was alive in '86</---F>. I was ten, in fact. While my memory of the time is going to be different than that of a 50 year old character, I wound up being very tired of the repeated anachronisms. In one paragraph--on page four of the book, I believe--the narrator tells the readers that the main character's s Original review posted: Mar 19, 09 I have to admit that I did not like this book. Mr. Ford is a decent writer, and while he did research 1942 fairly extensively, he did a crappy job portraying 1986. I was alive in '86. I was ten, in fact. While my memory of the time is going to be different than that of a 50 year old character, I wound up being very tired of the repeated anachronisms. In one paragraph--on page four of the book, I believe--the narrator tells the readers that the main character's son is seeing a grief counselor and participating in an Internet support group. In 1986, that sort of thing would have been highly unlikely. Further, in that same paragraph, he tells us the main character's deceased wife is buried in the same cemetary with Bruce and Brandon Lee--and this is seven years before Brandon's death. I'm not the kind of reader that gets easily annoyed by poor detail editing--but I am annoyed when sloppy research (<---B>or a failure to do any sort of research</---B>) leads to misrepresentations of the setting. I found this book to be very sloppy indeed. Edit posted: April 21, 2013 After years of getting comments and feedback on this review, I will take the time to edit it for two important details. 1. Many of the errors that I found irritating were fixed in the paperback edition of the book. I would argue that this means that others also found the errors irritating that they were, indeed, errors . 2. Ford replies to the internet issue as one of his FAQ replies on his website. He states: \"I'm afraid I have to reveal just how geeky I truly am. I was on Compuserve in 1984, with an old coupler modem like you saw in the movie Wargames. Back when you had to pay $100 to sign up and were charged by the hour. Just because most people weren't online then, doesn't mean no one was. Just the few, the proud, the computer geeks...\" You can see the comment here . ...more I loved this book, but I had one minor annoyance with it. The author had 4 anachronisms: the book is set (in part) in 1986, and yet the son is in an \"on-line\" grief support group, and used the internet to look up a lost friend, and there is talk twice about digital conversion of records to CDs. This book is told by a 50+ year old second generation Chinese-American. It is told in two different time periods, and flows back and forth between the 1940's to 1986 seemlessly. It is the story of a young I loved this book, but I had one minor annoyance with it. The author had 4 anachronisms: the book is set (in part) in 1986, and yet the son is in an \"on-line\" grief support group, and used the internet to look up a lost friend, and there is talk twice about digital conversion of records to CDs. This book is told by a 50+ year old second generation Chinese-American. It is told in two different time periods, and flows back and forth between the 1940's to 1986 seemlessly. It is the story of a young chinese boy who is thrown together with a young japanese girl in Seattle during WW2. It is the story of their friendship/love, and also that of the other relationships that the boy has: his Chinese parents, a local black jazz musician, and later with his own son and son's fiance. Very well written, and very touching. It gave an interesting insight into the Chinese views of the war, along with the effects, and the aftermath, of the Japanese internment on the Seattle area. ...more For me <---A>Jamie Ford</---A>'s heralded, multiple award-winning <+++>Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet</+++> was an entirely luke warm reading experience from start to finish. The emotional heat that should have brewed within a story of this nature, considering the volatile subject matter, failed to materialize. I never tasted the venom of injustice as I should have. The details of Japanese internment in America during WWII was certainly interesting to read about, especially since I know so little about it. See For me Jamie Ford's heralded, multiple award-winning <+++>Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet</+++> was an entirely luke warm reading experience from start to finish. The emotional heat that should have brewed within a story of this nature, considering the volatile subject matter, failed to materialize. I never tasted the venom of injustice as I should have. The details of Japanese internment in America during WWII was certainly interesting to read about, especially since I know so little about it. Seeing our country, a country founded on freedom, take it away from its own citizens is chilling. I just didn't feel the chill in Ford's words as much as I could and should have. Otherwise, it was a lovely story. A quaint and well-written love story indeed, but I had a hard time rooting for the romantic connection between these two children. They were just too young for me to think in those terms, and maybe it wasn't intended to be so intimate. Certainly their relationship is sweet and I felt myself pulling for them, but I was pulling with all the strength and enthusiasm I would if I were pitted in a game of tug-o-war against a two year old. ...more Oy vey. I really did want to like this book. It sounded like the perfect book for my mood: Not too highfalutin or literary, but a good story I which I can immerse myself and escape to a different time and place. As I went on Goodreads a few days ago to add the book to my list of 'currently reading' however, I came across a number of really bad reviews. Disappointed, and somewhat deflated, I nevertheless read on trying to ignore the negativity, stay positive and try to like the story and get into Oy vey. I really did want to like this book. It sounded like the perfect book for my mood: Not too highfalutin or literary, but a good story I which I can immerse myself and escape to a different time and place. As I went on Goodreads a few days ago to add the book to my list of 'currently reading' however, I came across a number of really bad reviews. Disappointed, and somewhat deflated, I nevertheless read on trying to ignore the negativity, stay positive and try to like the story and get into the characters. Well, I got to page 67. And reviewers who gave bad reviews: you were right. My first suspicions about the writing came in one of the first chapters where one page after the other the paragraphs start the same way: Henry wasn't sure which was... Worse, (pg 27) and ... More .frustrating (pg 29). Which just led me thinking: Where was the editor here? I even read through this sentence on page 33: The sum total of Henry's Japanese friends happened to be a number that rhymed with hero. What?!? What kind of sentence is that? From an adult? Someone trying to evoke the feel of a Chinese immigrant to the US in the 1940's?! That kind of writing is a word that rhymes with spit. Another 30 pages into the book and I thought: why bother? The author clearly hasn't been able to capture my attention, I am not drawn into the story or the characters and while I really wasn't looking for prose of genius, the are minimum requirements of what I am willing to read. (Maybe this book would be better as an audio?) So I put down. I give it one star and a new title: Prose on the Precipice of Barfy and Saccharain ...more Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet by Jamie Ford, Release Date 1/27/2009, $24.00 I've just finished reading Jamie Ford's forthcoming novel, Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet, and am still basking in the glow. The characters are fully realized, the title is a real attention grabber, and the story fleshed out with plenty of local and period detail. Ford provides an intimate look at life on the homefront during WWII from the uncommon perpective of an earnest Chinese-American boy and his Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet by Jamie Ford, Release Date 1/27/2009, $24.00 I've just finished reading Jamie Ford's forthcoming novel, Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet, and am still basking in the glow. The characters are fully realized, the title is a real attention grabber, and the story fleshed out with plenty of local and period detail. Ford provides an intimate look at life on the homefront during WWII from the uncommon perpective of an earnest Chinese-American boy and his Japanese-American school friend. I think Henry and Keiko are two of the most engaging characters I've come across in a long while and I will not soon forget them, nor Sheldon, the saxophone player who befreinds them. I'm not the type of reader that necessarily longs for a happy ending, but this one certainly satisfies. ...more Set in Seattle, Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet tells of the forbidden friendship between a Chinese-American boy named <---C>Henry Lee</---C> and a Japanese-American girl named Keiko Okabe during the Second World War. Henry and Keiko are both just twelve years old when they become friends in 1942. Life is difficult for both of them. They face racism and prejudice on a daily basis and Henry's father does not approve of the friendship. After the devastation of Pearl Harbour, the US government decides t Set in Seattle, Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet tells of the forbidden friendship between a Chinese-American boy named Henry Lee and a Japanese-American girl named Keiko Okabe during the Second World War. Henry and Keiko are both just twelve years old when they become friends in 1942. Life is difficult for both of them. They face racism and prejudice on a daily basis and Henry's father does not approve of the friendship. After the devastation of Pearl Harbour, the US government decides to send all the people of Japanese decent to live in internment camps until the war is over. Henry and Keiko find themselves separated. I really loved this book! Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet is a beautiful, fascinating, tender and moving story from beginning to end. Like the title suggests, the story is such a bitter-sweet tale, heartbreaking at times and so warm and sweet in others. This novel is set during two time periods, the 1940's and 1986. I found both periods equally compelling to read about. It is incredibly rare to find a historical fiction novel about World War Two that isn't set in Europe! Before reading this book, I knew nothing about how badly the Japanese in America were treated during the war. I was quite shocked by this. I have to admit I cried a few times while reading this book! All the characters were vivid, well-developed and realistic. I really loved the characters of Henry, Keiko and Sheldon, and really cared about what happened to them. I've just got one gripe with the novel. I would have liked to know what happened in Keiko's life during the intervening years while they were apart. I found it really hard to put this novel down and I look forward to reading more from this author! Five Stars! ...more I'm always a little behind the curve when it comes to reading blockbuster NYT bestsellers. I think a part of me resists because I love finding \"little\" books that deserve kudos and talking about them. But I had heard so many good things about THE HOTEL ON THE CORNER OF BITTER AND SWEET that I bought it, though I sat on it a while before I cracked it open to read. Once I did, I was hooked instantly by the wonderful character of Henry Lee, a 12-year-old boy in Seattle's Chinatown during the early I'm always a little behind the curve when it comes to reading blockbuster NYT bestsellers. I think a part of me resists because I love finding \"little\" books that deserve kudos and talking about them. But I had heard so many good things about THE HOTEL ON THE CORNER OF BITTER AND SWEET that I bought it, though I sat on it a while before I cracked it open to read. Once I did, I was hooked instantly by the wonderful character of Henry Lee, a 12-year-old boy in Seattle's Chinatown during the early years of America's involvement in WWII. Henry's relationship with Keiko, a Japanese girl at his otherwise white school, is frowned upon by his father (in fact, he doesn't even tell his parents about Keiko for a long time). I so enjoyed seeing the boy Henry was (in the 1940s) interspersed with more modern chapters (1980s) so I also viewed the man he became. A sweet and eye-opening tale about love and humanity during an uncivil era. Highly recommended for readers of all ages. ...more I am Chinese This was a touching story of friendship, love and loss. I enjoyed this very much. Great characters, rich history and beautifully written. My local library picked this as the second book in their book club. I'm looking forward to seeing what everyone thinks of it. Okay, I am not the target audience for this book. One of my favorite teachers in high school was sent to one of the internment camps as a child. I\u2019ve met Fred Korematsu, whose challenge to internship went all the way to the Supreme Court back in the day. I\u2019ve read that opinion. I know several members of the excellent legal team that got his conviction vacated. I know the Justice Department lied to the Supreme Court about the \u201cknown danger\u201d the Japanese-Americans represented. My grandmother bough Okay, I am not the target audience for this book. One of my favorite teachers in high school was sent to one of the internment camps as a child. I\u2019ve met Fred Korematsu, whose challenge to internship went all the way to the Supreme Court back in the day. I\u2019ve read that opinion. I know several members of the excellent legal team that got his conviction vacated. I know the Justice Department lied to the Supreme Court about the \u201cknown danger\u201d the Japanese-Americans represented. My grandmother bought a house on 10th and Jefferson from a neighbor being sent away, and my boss\u2019s family took in an ebony and ivory piano from neighbors being removed that he later, at no small expense, had restored and donated to a Buddhist temple in Wapato. I love George Takei and have exchanged tweets with him. I know about the internment camps. I am deeply ashamed. I am not the target audience. I am no fan of the sweet and sentimental; of pathos and wistfulness; of romance and thwarted love. And I despise Orson Scott Card, who helped get this book written, for his stalwart work on behalf of homophobia. Science fiction writers who are on the wrong side of history belong in the special hell. So I didn\u2019t like the book, but understand, seriously, I am not in the target audience. I suspect, though I don\u2019t know, that the author did not mean to write about the Japanese internment. He meant to write a thwarted love story. The author interview in the back of the book disclaims any political intent, which baffles me. Given the opportunity to clearly condemn \u2013 or even defend -- the internment, he evades. I don\u2019t get that. The most he can come up with is \"beloved president Reagan apologized.\" When asked if he saw a parallel between the calls to close the border or remove Muslim Americans, he seemed astonished that there might be one. I do not love President Reagan. The parallel is bleeding. If I hadn\u2019t been reading this for my reading group, I never would have picked it up. But I did, and I finished it. It\u2019s a quick read. It\u2019s about a guy who meets a girl, falls in love with a girl, loses a girl to the Japanese internment and his father\u2019s racism, and moves on to be a good husband to a different woman. Who dies. Opening up our guy to find his first love. I suspect it\u2019s one of those books that attempts to mine those \u201crich veins of ordinary life\u201d I hear that non-genre literature is lovingly mining. I almost always find such books trite and cloying. This one was no exception. ...more A rich, tender, personal story so touching and full of history I should know, but didn't. Pulled at my heartstrings and made me longingly linger over and over the last few chapters. Set durring the height of Nihonmachi district (JapanTown) area of Seattle, Washingtom. You jump from 1986 to 1942 thoughout the story. To tell the tale of Henery Lee an intelligent, brave, 12yr old Chinese American quickly growing into a man thru struggling WWII times. He has a strained relationship with his father mi A rich, tender, personal story so touching and full of history I should know, but didn't. Pulled at my heartstrings and made me longingly linger over and over the last few chapters. Set durring the height of Nihonmachi district (JapanTown) area of Seattle, Washingtom. You jump from 1986 to 1942 thoughout the story. To tell the tale of Henery Lee an intelligent, brave, 12yr old Chinese American quickly growing into a man thru struggling WWII times. He has a strained relationship with his father mirroring that as a grown man in his fiftys he also struggles to open communications with his own grown son Marty. This is a rare book find for me as a closer look into the Japanese and Chinese American citizens and the bigotry and hatred they endured, because the country thought any could be spies. I gained new insight about the internment camps all Japanese citizens were evacuateed to with only possessions they could carry. Was a powerful look into American history as hearts and humanity broke down, inflicted by war and the damage to repair years after as relationships try to mend. Not very many books have made me read thru tears but this was such a profound story that needed to be written, with characters believable and heroic. A Beautiful Romeo and Juliet style romantic tale. I loved the symbolisms used, most of which the old vinyl 78 Oscar Holden record. I also enjoyed getting a peek into the 1940's Seattle jazz scene. ...more Great book. I love novels based on historical fact. I finished it in just a day and a half. Hard to believe it is a first novel. I am looking forward to more from this author. I looked up some of the people and places mentioned in the book, just to see if they were real - and was pleased to find that they were. Of course if I had read the acknolwedgements at the end of the book I would have known that already. I had heard lots about this book, but had not put it on my TBR list. So when I saw the audio at the library, I figured...what the heck, may as well try it! I might not have finished it if I had an alternative book in the car to read. Sometimes the reader annoyed me when he said the main character's (Henry's) words with a Chinese accent (inconsistently at that!) .... since Henry had been born in the US. I usually do not like when an author switches back and forth from one time period to another, b I had heard lots about this book, but had not put it on my TBR list. So when I saw the audio at the library, I figured...what the heck, may as well try it! I might not have finished it if I had an alternative book in the car to read. Sometimes the reader annoyed me when he said the main character's (Henry's) words with a Chinese accent (inconsistently at that!) .... since Henry had been born in the US. I usually do not like when an author switches back and forth from one time period to another, but in this book it \"fit\". I think the author should have made Henry and Keiko a bit older...I found it impossible to accept that these \"children\" had such a relationship. Absolutely implausible. I also found the writing to be clumsy, full of cliches, AND I felt nothing for any of the characters. Usually I feel some connection, but not here. I found a LOT of inaccuracies in this book and many logical incongrities, but since I was driving while listening, I could not make notes on them...but I groaned a LOT! This author really needed to do better research or have an editor who knows something about history. One of the most egregious errors was when Henry's son was participating in an online grief group...in 1986!!!!! Also in 1986, a rear-projection TV in a nursing home, Someone died in 1986 but was buried in the same cemetery as a celebrity who died in 1993. He said that a Japanese sub DESTROYED an oil refinery in CA, when, in reality, it had barely damaged the refinery. Yeah, right, sure. Many online reviewers, who know a lot more about World War II than I do, really zoned in on all the the mistakes about the war. For example, Japan occupied Canton until 1945 (not 1942 as the author stated), To me, all of these errors of fact are the signs of a lazy writer. I know that with fiction, readers are expected to suspend belief, but not about FACTS! The author said, at the end, that he did not intend to make this book about the internment camps...but perhaps he should have put that statement at the beginning because I think maybe people were expecting that to be the focus of this book... Had this been a \"paper\" book, or if I had had another audiobook available, I probably would have abandoned it after 50 pages -- if I had even gotten that far! ...more Wow, just wow. This book was masterfully told and while it started slow, it built into a crescendo of feelings and emotions. The character development was amazing, the storyline outstanding, and the writing masterful. Recommend this. Pick it up, read it. After reading how many people absolutely adore this book, I almost feel a little guilty giving it a \"meh\" review. But....a \"meh\" review it deserves, and that's what it shall get from me. First, the good: My sense is that this story has raised awareness of the internment camps that many Japanese-Americans were placed in during WWII. As someone who believes that without knowledge of history we're doomed to repeat it, I think that's timely and important knowledge for people to have. The story of Hen After reading how many people absolutely adore this book, I almost feel a little guilty giving it a \"meh\" review. But....a \"meh\" review it deserves, and that's what it shall get from me. First, the good: My sense is that this story has raised awareness of the internment camps that many Japanese-Americans were placed in during WWII. As someone who believes that without knowledge of history we're doomed to repeat it, I think that's timely and important knowledge for people to have. The story of Henry and Keiko's relationship is a very sweet, heartwarming one (if not entirely realistic at age 12-ish). Mrs. Beatty is a character who I would have enjoyed getting to \"know\" better; for someone who was a pretty crusty lady, she seemed to have a lot of compassion beneath that exterior. Then, the bad: Anachronisms. Lots of them. Interestingly, not in the 1940s sections, but in the 1980s sections. Shame on the editor who let them get past their desk. Another weakness was in all of the allusions to the history of father-son relationships in the Lee family with little being done to develop that theme. Also, while many of the characters were interesting, the portrayal of them felt superficial to me. Mrs. Beatty seemed underdeveloped as a character- as did Mr. Okabe and even Sheldon. I wanted more of these characters. It's an easy read and if you need something to fill time (I did- read it in a day and a half while I've been laid up with pneumonia), it's not a bad time-filler. Honestly, though, it reminds me of cotton candy at the fair- sweet, light, fluffy, and leaves you wishing for something with more substance. ...more Hotel made me cry, made me laugh and brought me joy. It's a beautifully written and tender story about first love, the human experience surrounding racial divides, generational conflicts, and the internment of Japanese Americans. You won't be disappointed with Hotel . \"O Gosto Proibido do Gengibre\" \u00e9 um livro com uma hist\u00f3ria muito bonita... O autor, Jamie Ford, alterna dois momentos distintos da hist\u00f3ria ao longo do livro: o passado, aquando da Segunda Guerra Mundial, e o presente, relativo ao ano de 1986, sendo que esta altern\u00e2ncia confere ritmo e aumenta, na minha perspectiva, o interesse na hist\u00f3ria, que remonta a um per\u00edodo algo conturbado da hist\u00f3ria mundial, da hist\u00f3ria norte-americana e da hist\u00f3ria japonesa. Um jovem americano de origem chinesa (mas q \"O Gosto Proibido do Gengibre\" \u00e9 um livro com uma hist\u00f3ria muito bonita... O autor, Jamie Ford, alterna dois momentos distintos da hist\u00f3ria ao longo do livro: o passado, aquando da Segunda Guerra Mundial, e o presente, relativo ao ano de 1986, sendo que esta altern\u00e2ncia confere ritmo e aumenta, na minha perspectiva, o interesse na hist\u00f3ria, que remonta a um per\u00edodo algo conturbado da hist\u00f3ria mundial, da hist\u00f3ria norte-americana e da hist\u00f3ria japonesa. Um jovem americano de origem chinesa (mas que o pai faz quest\u00e3o que n\u00e3o esque\u00e7a jamais o facto de que \u00e9 chin\u00eas, obrigando-o a exibir um crach\u00e1 diariamente), Henry, conhece uma jovem americana de origem japonesa, Keiko, de quem se torna amigo e com quem desenvolve o gosto pela audi\u00e7\u00e3o de m\u00fasica jazz. Ap\u00f3s o ataque japon\u00eas \u00e0 base norte-americana de Pearl Harbor, situada no Pac\u00edfico, os japoneses - nos quais se encontram Keiko - foram enviados para campos de internamento, desapossados dos seus bens, dos seus amigos (n\u00e3o japoneses) e das suas rotinas. Este livro conta, assim, um epis\u00f3dio pouco conhecido da hist\u00f3ria dos EUA, mas negro e incompreens\u00edvel... O que \u00e9 que os japoneses (entre os quais se contavam crian\u00e7as, note-se) que viviam nos EUA, muitos dos quais desde sempre, outros tendo a\u00ed nascido tinham a ver com o ataque a Pearl Harbor...? Para se verem impedidos de viver a sua vida livremente? O mundo aponta sempre o dedo \u00e0s atrocidades que os alem\u00e3es (nazis) cometeram contra os judeus, mas infelizmente o mundo tamb\u00e9m est\u00e1 salpicado de hist\u00f3rias destas... Um pouco diferentes \u00e9 certo, mas igualmente tristes, lament\u00e1veis, conden\u00e1veis, vergonhosas...! Isto ir\u00e1 implicar com a rela\u00e7\u00e3o de Henry e Keiko, tendo consequ\u00eancias para o seu futuro, para o qual a interven\u00e7\u00e3o fan\u00e1tica do pai de Henry tamb\u00e9m ir\u00e1 contribuir de forma determinante. Esta hist\u00f3ria \u00e9, como disse, muito bonita e apesar de toda a odisseia (que n\u00e3o \u00e9 for\u00e7ada e \u00e9 perfeitamente enquadrada no contexto) tem um final doce, digamos assim, levando-nos a pensar mesmo que \"depois da tempestade vem a bonan\u00e7a\". ...more No. Just, no. I had pretty much decided to abandon this book unfinished when I received notification that the audiobook I had requested from the library was now available for download. Well, that clinched it. And so, in the style of Goodnight Moon , I am bidding this book good-bye. Good-bye book. Good-bye hopelessly twee title (which should have been a clue). Good-bye awkward dialogue, and good-bye emotional manipulation. Good-bye, poor cliched struggling immigrant adolescent Henry. Good-bye, clea No. Just, no. I had pretty much decided to abandon this book unfinished when I received notification that the audiobook I had requested from the library was now available for download. Well, that clinched it. And so, in the style of Goodnight Moon , I am bidding this book good-bye. Good-bye book. Good-bye hopelessly twee title (which should have been a clue). Good-bye awkward dialogue, and good-bye emotional manipulation. Good-bye, poor cliched struggling immigrant adolescent Henry. Good-bye, clearly doomed age-inappropriate romance. Good-bye, Henry's efforts to dodge the one-dimensional evil bullies. Good-bye, contrived coincidences. Good-bye, stock characters. Good-bye, goodreaders everywhere whose ratings of this book averaged out to 3.9. (3.9!) ...more If this isn't an eye opening book, I don't know what is. This is a story of a 1st generation Chinese American boy named Henry in 1942 Seattle. During World War II his father wants to ensure no one confuses him for the ostracized Japanese and sends his son to an all white school with an \"I Am Chinese\" button on his clothing. There he meets 2nd generation Japanese American girl named Keiko. Though Henry's father has a passionate hatred for the Japanese, Henry develops a sweet, deep and secretive f If this isn't an eye opening book, I don't know what is. This is a story of a 1st generation Chinese American boy named Henry in 1942 Seattle. During World War II his father wants to ensure no one confuses him for the ostracized Japanese and sends his son to an all white school with an \"I Am Chinese\" button on his clothing. There he meets 2nd generation Japanese American girl named Keiko. Though Henry's father has a passionate hatred for the Japanese, Henry develops a sweet, deep and secretive friendship with her. Then the president of the USA signs an executive order to round up Japanese Americans and \"evacuate\" them to internment camps across the western half of the United States. Henry must come to grips with losing his new best friend while trying to understand why or how such an appalling act could be happening to the Japanese Americans. This book was certainly an eye opener as I already stated. I had heard of internment camps for the Japanese, but so very little of it. The author clearly stated at the end of this book he had no intention of laying blame on anyone or to sway the reader to sympathy either. He did a remarkable job of simply stating what happened with no political jabs. He tells a beautiful story of friendship and life during those difficult times. I can tell you this book has certainly inspired me to learn more on this topic. ...more ** 3 1/2 stars ** Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet by Jamie Ford follows the life of Henry Lee during 1942 and 1986 in Seattle, Washington. Henry is a first-generation Chinese American whose father's heart is still in China. Henry is sent to an all-white school on scholarship because his father wants Henry to \"be American\". While there, Henry befriends a Japanese girl named Keiko who is also accepted at the school on scholarship. Henry knows his friendship with this young girl will upset h ** 3 1/2 stars ** Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet by Jamie Ford follows the life of Henry Lee during 1942 and 1986 in Seattle, Washington. Henry is a first-generation Chinese American whose father's heart is still in China. Henry is sent to an all-white school on scholarship because his father wants Henry to \"be American\". While there, Henry befriends a Japanese girl named Keiko who is also accepted at the school on scholarship. Henry knows his friendship with this young girl will upset his father, but having been the only student of color at Reiner Elementary, Henry allows his loneliness and need of a friend to overcome his prejudices. When Keiko is forced to relocate to an internment camp, Henry is devastated but determined to not let their friendship die. Forty years later new owners are renovating the Panama Hotel in Seattle when belongings of Japanese families during the 'war years' are found. Henry has recently lost his wife, Ethel, to cancer and these findings bring back a flood of old memories and longings. He doesn't want to disrespect the memory of his late wife and doesn't want to hurt his son who loved Ethel very much, but his need to revisit his past and his love for Keiko win out in the end and have surprising outcomes that Henry never imagined could happen. I typically have a difficult time reading period pieces because of my lack of knowledge of history. The author, however, did a very good job of explaining events and the culture of the time; I had no difficulty understanding what was happening or being able to visualize the story in my mind. The story, however, was very slow to get going for me. It was a good 100 pages in before things started to pick up and I really was interested in seeing what may happen next. I'm listing my pros and cons as spoilers because I don't want to ruin the story for those of you who may not have read this book yet. (view spoiler) [ Pros \u2022 This book does an excellent job of showing that racism exists in many forms and people can too often hold prejudices against an entire people because of the deeds of a select few. \u2022 The author's research of 1940s Seattle culture is evident; he able to describe details to the reader that brings the book to life. \u2022 Prior to reading this book, I honestly had very little knowledge of the Japanese interment camps. I knew they had existed during WWII, but that was about it. This book is in no way an extensive text on what life inside these camps was like, but it does give the reader a glimpse. Cons \u2022 As previously stated, I found this book very difficult to get into. I contemplated abandoning it, but decided to hang on. \u2022 Although I know that love has no age, I found it very difficult to believe that two twelve-year olds could have such deep feelings for each other. Perhaps it was the difficulty of being together that pushed them closer to each other... or perhaps the extreme circumstances of the time... but the depth of love was a little unbelievable. \u2022 Although the internet did exist in 1986, it's very hard to believe that Marty was in an online support group and used the internet to locate Keiko on the opposite side of the country. \u2022 Although CDs did exist and were used in 1986, it was hard to believe this would be the suggested form of reformatting a record instead of a cassette tape. (hide spoiler) ] ...more My book club read this book and when I passed the cover in an airport I knew I just had to read it. When my girlfriend found it on sale it put it on my list. Okay this is a do not pass up book, the reading is light goes quickly but the story is deep. I can't help but think of my very first real crush I had in the seventh grade, it my first attempt at understanding the very adult feeling I was having towards Tony. The funny thing is I can't tell you my husbands birthday but I can still remember th My book club read this book and when I passed the cover in an airport I knew I just had to read it. When my girlfriend found it on sale it put it on my list. Okay this is a do not pass up book, the reading is light goes quickly but the story is deep. I can't help but think of my very first real crush I had in the seventh grade, it my first attempt at understanding the very adult feeling I was having towards Tony. The funny thing is I can't tell you my husbands birthday but I can still remember the shirt Tony had on when he gave me my first kiss. Henry learns not only what it means to accept someone for who they are and love them despite all odds, he gives up speaking to his family and dishonoring his father to stand up for what he knows is right as an American. I can't think of a time period more confusing this one for a young chinese boy born in America. He learns what it means to be American from a young Japanese girl and also looses his heart in the process. This book has so many hidden chinese proverbs that will touch your heart and give you hope in that first love. If nothing else it took me back to a time in my own life that was bitter sweet. ...more Jamie Ford's, 'Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet' lived up to my expectations. This book has a title that begs you to pick it up. It's about history and culture and music. But, like most love stories that take place during war times - there's sadness and heartbreak. I found this debut novel by Jamie Ford to be exactly what the title suggested...bitter and sweet. Knowing that this story revolved around the \"imprisonment\" of Japanese \"Americans\" during WW 2 I was at first expecting that to be more of the focus of this book. Instead I found a story of first love, everlasting love, of a good person and a life lived. Henry (Chinese) and Keiko (Japanese) become fast friends when they are young, the outsiders in an all white school. Their bond is tested when she I found this debut novel by Jamie Ford to be exactly what the title suggested...bitter and sweet. Knowing that this story revolved around the \"imprisonment\" of Japanese \"Americans\" during WW 2 I was at first expecting that to be more of the focus of this book. Instead I found a story of first love, everlasting love, of a good person and a life lived. Henry (Chinese) and Keiko (Japanese) become fast friends when they are young, the outsiders in an all white school. Their bond is tested when she and her family are put into the internment camps. Promises are made and Henry struggles to keep his promise along with his hopes. The story switches from the 40's to the 80's and for this story it worked. Henry struggling to connect to his son, make sense of how his life turned out as he reflects on the events that shaped him. Had he lived an honorable life? Part of me wanted a bit more of the history of that time....but then I realized that Ford gave me just enough. More detail of a terrible part of the American history and this would have turned into a moral message....what people do when they are fearful of things they do not understand is horrific in hindsight, yet it happens over and over again. I appreciated that he gave us enough to feel what these characters went through and to understand some of our not so pleasant history. I also thought he did a wonderful job of showing how cultures can be so different. These young people seemed so \"grown up\"....yet in many cultures (Asian in this case) young teens are considered adults, with the responsibilities to prove it. There were glimpses of racism as well as cultural prejudice and he wove these into this story quite well. His secondary characters were just as strong as the prominent ones and added so much to this book. All in all a beautiful love story. 4.5 stars. ...more Reading this novel was in itself a memorable experience. There are books that I must hug when I finish reading. I hugged Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet often when reading, emotion taking over throughout, needing pauses to appreciate and feel rather than continuing to read. In that way, the novel is not a page turner. The warmth and honesty is just too much. I think that after a lifetime of reading, I have found a new treasure. Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet is a modern Romeo and Reading this novel was in itself a memorable experience. There are books that I must hug when I finish reading. I hugged Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet often when reading, emotion taking over throughout, needing pauses to appreciate and feel rather than continuing to read. In that way, the novel is not a page turner. The warmth and honesty is just too much. I think that after a lifetime of reading, I have found a new treasure. Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet is a modern Romeo and Juliet, with intelligent Asian adolescents who make responsible choices. This update does not dream of the promise of \"a place for us... somewhere, someplace, somehow,\" but indeed beautifully fulfills the promise and dream. The novel does not leave the reader anguished, instead life's wonders are illuminated. Throughout, the reader feels connections to the characters. For those who want, The Hotel on the Bitter and Sweet is so wonderfully written that it can be a page turner and a fast read. I pray, however, that readers take the time to live in this novel, to experience it, often taking the time to feel. The experience of this read is glorious and has the capacity to change those who appreciate. ...more I enjoyed 'Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet'. It is deceptively low-key and emotionally even-tempered, but it actually is about certain painful intersections of time, place and cultures, specifically 1942 and 1986, seen through the eyes of a 12-year-old Chinese-American boy at first, and then those of a 56-year-old widower, both of whom are Henry Lee, born in and having lived his entire life in Seattle, Washington State, in America to immigrant Chinese parents. He speaks English, but his I enjoyed 'Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet'. It is deceptively low-key and emotionally even-tempered, but it actually is about certain painful intersections of time, place and cultures, specifically 1942 and 1986, seen through the eyes of a 12-year-old Chinese-American boy at first, and then those of a 56-year-old widower, both of whom are Henry Lee, born in and having lived his entire life in Seattle, Washington State, in America to immigrant Chinese parents. He speaks English, but his parents do not. They speak Cantonese, and although they want Henry to be American, they follow the old ways of their Chinese community. The story alternates between following the child Henry as he contends with the conflicting motives and prejudices of his father during World War II, and the grownup Henry who is learning to live without his wife, who recently died from cancer, and to understand his modern American adult son, Marty. Henry and his father shared one cultural rule - do not express feelings. Otherwise, everything else was a point of misunderstanding and cultural obliviousness between them. Henry attended a local White-race elementary school, which was engineered by his socially important father, and he was forbidden to speak Cantonese at home. It meant he had to communicate in sign language with his parents, except on occasion when he had to translate for them. Henry's family lived in what I grew up calling Seattle's International District (which the author is spot on in describing), but during WWII, it was a neighborhood called Chinatown. Chinatown was where Chinese people were a majority population, but nearby was a Japanese enclave of businesses and homes. Black people also lived there. Today (2016), the International District is an incredibly diverse population of different cultures and countries, but it mostly reflects many Asian cultures. World War II caused prejudices to explode within and without the enclaves, both from national patriotism and personal considerations - to some White Americans, there were no differences between the Japanese-Americans, Chinese-Americans and the enemy Japanese; and likewise to many immigrant first-generation Chinese-Americans all Japanese were enemies, since Japan had been slaughtering Chinese in China for a decade, long before the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor in Hawaii. Henry's father hated the Japanese, American or not - he had racially-based beliefs about Japanese-American loyalties the same as many Whites did, even as he forced Henry to wear a large button declaring Henry to be Chinese in English to protect him from abuses from White people (in spite of the button, Henry still suffers from beatings by a white student at school). Henry is depressed and confused. When he meets and begins to like a 12-year-old Japanese girl attending the same elementary school he is before the Japanese were forced into the camps, Henry has to make some immediate decisions about his father, his obligations to his Chinese society's traditions and what exactly being an American 'of color' and yet also a completely Americanized American-born citizen, is about. Doing this while an ongoing war has intensified panic and fear (view spoiler) [Henry is lucky to find two mentors - a Black man and a White woman - who allow him the space and support he needs to become the liberal American-Chinese adult father that his adult son Marty belatedly discovers, fortunately not too late. Going off-topic, why do so many adult children and their parents deny themselves honest reveals to each other when appropriate (if the relationship is benign and normal)? I never had kids, so as an outsider, I have seen SO many unnecessary parent/child/life dramas because of lack of communication! I suspect more families should get a mediator or a family therapist, if that is what it takes to TALK openly. (hide spoiler) ] 'Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet' is a love story of many things - Seattle, families and people in cultural transition, letting go of beloved traditions, an innocent romance between a boy and a girl - while it also quietly reflects on the failures and stresses behind 'multiculturalism'. America was created with a written Constitution defining us as a Republic democracy with certain laws. Some of those laws define the rights of all citizens within American borders. Some of these mandated rights are about giving all citizens freedom to express ideas, religions, and culture, as long as there is no harmful coercion or illegal behavior, and as refined by the Supreme Court, without any interference from either the Federal or States' governments. Unfortunately, diversity is difficult to tolerate in actual practice, particularly when cultural differences are perceived as putting others of different cultures in mortal danger. When common ordinary people threaten to indulge in lynching and mass murderous mayhem to protect themselves if they believe the government won't protect them, even when there is no real danger whatsoever, the American government is committed to keeping the peace and to stop all mayhem before any other considerations, such as justice or rights. However, during World War II, in the name of protecting the nation from destructive disorder, and, thankfully, in not allowing the mass murder of Japanese-Americans, America nonetheless chose a cruel, racist response to appease White-race fears. America suspended Constitutional rights for Japanese Americans during the war and imprisoned them in concentration camps as if they were prisoners-of-war. In moving all Japanese-Americans to these horrible camps, away from friends, jobs and their legally purchased property, these Japanese-American citizens lost everything they owned and all of their hard-earned wealth, besides their Constitutional rights. There was absolutely no cause ever discovered of danger from Japanese-Americans which was supposedly behind the declaration to move Japanese-Americans to concentration camps. It is a historical fact German prisoners-of-war captured in the fighting and transferred to American prisoner camps received better housing, medical care and humane treatment than did the Japanese-Americans living in their designated camps. Non-combatant German-American and Italian-American citizens were not placed into American concentration camps, and while some German-Americans experienced unlawful discrimination and personal assaults during WWII, they were mostly left to live their lives in whatever community they had settled in and to continue keeping their businesses, jobs, houses, property and money. The book and the history behind it is a Romeo-and-Juliet tragedy in every dimension in my opinion. I think this novel may be too soft-spoken for some readers, but I found it a very good read. ...more I really wanted to rate this book a 5 and if I gave half ratings I suppose I'd give it 4.5. This book just drew me into the setting of Seattle during the 1940s and the internment of American citizens who were of Japanese decent during WWII. This book, in fact, made me cry which is an effect that few books have on me. I tend to be a fairly stoic person and that carries over into my reading but by the time I was finishing this book I was all weepy and glad no one was around to see me working my wa I really wanted to rate this book a 5 and if I gave half ratings I suppose I'd give it 4.5. This book just drew me into the setting of Seattle during the 1940s and the internment of American citizens who were of Japanese decent during WWII. This book, in fact, made me cry which is an effect that few books have on me. I tend to be a fairly stoic person and that carries over into my reading but by the time I was finishing this book I was all weepy and glad no one was around to see me working my way through a box of tissues. Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet tells the story of Henry Lee through transitions in time between the 1940s and 1986 in Seattle. Henry is the son of a Chinese nationalist obsessed with the war between China and Japan. After the bombing of Pearl Harbor Henry's father decides that his son needs to become more American and will no longer allow Henry to speak any language but English at home even though it breaks down the communication between Henry and his Cantonese speaking parents. Henry is also sent to the exclusive Rainer Elementary where he is the only Asian student and is ruthlessly bullied by the other students. Henry's one friend is Sheldon, a young black jazz musician who plays a saxophone on the street corner. Amongst the confusion of war and prejudice, Henry meets Keiko Okabe, a new Japanese American Student at Rainer. Always fearful of his father's reaction Henry forges a strong bond of friendship with Keiko. As more Japanese people are arrested and rounded up in raids, Henry fears for what will happen to Keiko and her family. When the order for the removal of all Japanese people in Seattle comes down Henry is torn trying to do what is right while struggling to understand what the right thing is. Should he be loyal to his Chinese nationalist family or should he follow his feelings and help Keiko? The other side of the story takes place in 1986 as Henry, now a widower, is trying to bridge the gap in his relationship with his son and between his past and present life. This is Jamie Ford's debut novel and while I really enjoyed it, there were some inconsistencies and a bit of redundancy. The use of the Internet in 1986 had me a bit puzzled. Yes, the Internet existed at the time but was not really being used in the ways described in the book. Perhaps a little heavy on the sentimental side at times, I really enjoyed this thoughtful look at the tragic events surrounding the treatment of Japanese Americans during WWII and the glimpse into the Japanese internment camps. ...more I tend to enjoy novels that flash back and forth from past to present, and this novel was no different (though \"present\" is 1986). The story features Henry, a Chinese man in his fifties who lives in Seattle. The bulk of the events take place in the early 1940's during the heart of WWII, when Henry was only twelve. His Chinese parents enact several harsh rules for their son: sending him to an American school where he's beaten and teased for being Chinese, insisting he speak to them only in Englis I tend to enjoy novels that flash back and forth from past to present, and this novel was no different (though \"present\" is 1986). The story features Henry, a Chinese man in his fifties who lives in Seattle. The bulk of the events take place in the early 1940's during the heart of WWII, when Henry was only twelve. His Chinese parents enact several harsh rules for their son: sending him to an American school where he's beaten and teased for being Chinese, insisting he speak to them only in English even though they only understand Mandarin, and, most painful of all, shunning him for his friendship with the only other student of color at his school, a Japanese girl named Keiko. The friendship between Henry and Keiko was the highlight of the novel for me. They're both so sweet and wise, Henry with his love of jazz and Keiko with her sketch pad, helping each other through a tumultuous time. If you're a good historian, you might realize this time was when the American government forced Japanese families to live in internment camps. It was horrifying to watch Keiko's American family forced to live in barracks when Keiko doesn't even know how to speak Japanese. Their homes and businesses were lost, as well as family photographs, possessions, and heirlooms. Many Chinese hated the Japanese then, and to watch the internment through Henry's eyes was poignant and powerful. I liked the secondary characters, particularly Sheldon the jazz player. A Black man, Sheldon understands the discrimination facing the kids quite well. Henry's father is a very complex man. Most of the book I hated him but in the end he struck me as very sad. He missed out on his wonderful son. The plot was excellent and the writing smooth. My only criticism was that the story wasn't as emotionally gripping as it could have been. I'm not sure what was missing for me, but I was seeking a little more of an emotional punch. I agree this is an impressive debut by Jamie Ford, and I recommend it strongly. ...more I was at Sam's Club perusing the discounted paperbacks when an elderly woman approached me. She handed me a copy of this book and said, \"You need to read this.\" I looked it over, waited until she had walked away and put the book back. Big mistake! Six months later, I've come to see that she was absolutely right! This book was amazing! There is so much history in this book, and according to the author's note, the events and locations are based on facts. \"I have attempted to create a historic land I was at Sam's Club perusing the discounted paperbacks when an elderly woman approached me. She handed me a copy of this book and said, \"You need to read this.\" I looked it over, waited until she had walked away and put the book back. Big mistake! Six months later, I've come to see that she was absolutely right! This book was amazing! There is so much history in this book, and according to the author's note, the events and locations are based on facts. \"I have attempted to create a historic landscape without judging the good or bad intentions of those involved at the time\", stated Ford. He did just that. This isn't the first book I've read about Japanese American Internment during the 40s. What makes it unique is that it is related from the perspective of a 12 year-old Chinese-American boy, in the bustling China town district of Seattle. I hope this makes it to the big screen and stays true to the book. On that note, I'll sign off by quoting my Sam's Club do-gooder: \"You need to read this!\" ...more Although this is probably one of those implausible love stories that D. Steele might have written, the story is so much bigger and deeper because the author uses a first love to describe the differences and similarities of three generations of Chinese fathers and sons and what it means to be \"American\". The setting moves back and forth between Seattle's International District during WWII and contemporary Seattle. So, that gives it a special geographical interest to me. The author gives an intima Although this is probably one of those implausible love stories that D. Steele might have written, the story is so much bigger and deeper because the author uses a first love to describe the differences and similarities of three generations of Chinese fathers and sons and what it means to be \"American\". The setting moves back and forth between Seattle's International District during WWII and contemporary Seattle. So, that gives it a special geographical interest to me. The author gives an intimate description of life in Japanese internment camps and brings to life its effects on the Seattle community as a whole. The story is told through the eyes of a Chinese widower who had lost his Japanese childhood sweetheart when her family was forced into the camps. It is a story of how that experience shaped his relationship with his parents, and ultimately the direction of his own life. This would be a great book club read. Then we would have tea at the Panama Hotel which is described in the book and apparently still exists. ...more I loved this book so much. I am glad I didn't read any of the reviews before I downloaded the Kindle sample. By the end of the sample I was hooked and purchased the book and no bad review could have ruined it for me. (people seem to be really upset about a few errouneous references to the internet in the 80s. Yes, I got that, too, but it really didn\u2019t ruin the book) Apart from the historical setting of Japanese internment during the World War 2, something I didn\u2019t know much about, I was truly int I loved this book so much. I am glad I didn't read any of the reviews before I downloaded the Kindle sample. By the end of the sample I was hooked and purchased the book and no bad review could have ruined it for me. (people seem to be really upset about a few errouneous references to the internet in the 80s. Yes, I got that, too, but it really didn\u2019t ruin the book) Apart from the historical setting of Japanese internment during the World War 2, something I didn\u2019t know much about, I was truly interested in the characters, main and secondary. The book had it all, great characters, an interesting setting, historical reference, comic relief as well as suspenseful and interesting plot. What's not to like. Oh, wow, this novel has it all...I am enjoying it so much! An unexpected find! ...more", "Title": "Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet"},
