{"Comments": "The reductive takeaway: The adult Perks of Being a Wallflower . Sometimes I wonder if I read the same book as other people. That's usually when I hate something that other people love. It's rarer when we both like the same book, but for vastly different reasons and have vastly different interpretations. But of course,<---M> the power of literature is interpretation</---M>, so it's to be expected. For some reason, people keep calling this book \"fun\" and \"entertaining.\" I'm sure someone probably called it a \"ligh The reductive takeaway: The adult Perks of Being a Wallflower . Sometimes I wonder if I read the same book as other people. That's usually when I hate something that other people love. It's rarer when we both like the same book, but for vastly different reasons and have vastly different interpretations. But of course, the power of literature is interpretation, so it's to be expected. For some reason, people keep calling this book \"fun\" and \"entertaining.\" I'm sure someone probably called it a \"light-read\" at one point. Huh? I really liked it, but this is some depressing stuff. It has quirk and black comedic moments, but no one said sad couldn't also be funny. I also don't understand why everyone isn't shouting \"adult Perks of Being a Wallflower \" over and over again. That was my first thought when I started reading and my first thought when I finished. Yes, the circumstances are different in that Charlie is 16 and Pat is 34 and Charlie is quietly crazy, while Pat is crazy crazy, but I see a lot of similarities. The crazy, the crying, the \"secret,\" the narrative style, the voice. I'm sure there's more, but that's all I can think of at the moment.<---F> Both characters have some mental illness</---F>. Both cry in public...a lot. Both have a \"secret\" reason as to why they are the way they are. Both are written in 1st person and take the form of written communications. Charlie exclusively writes letters. Pat writes journal entries and letters, although we also see a few letter's in Nikki's voice (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [actually Tiffany's voice (hide spoiler) ] . Both Charlie's and Pat's voices are remarkably childlike for their ages. Both are unreliable narrators. However, for all their similarities, they are quite different books. It's like Chbosky and Quick took the same central conceit and ran in complete opposite directions. Perks is jewel-like in its surreal isolation. It is so all about Charlie and his voice and his experience and his life. Chbosky is an instinctual writer who I can imagine wrote Perks very fast in a fit of apocryphal epiphany. He doesn't spend a lot time pondering the whys of things because teenagers don't care. So why should we. We put too much of a premium on knowing the backstory, knowing the genesis of every action we take. Perks delights in the unknown, even so far as to shove the big reveal to the epilogue, as if that event and the discovery and the hospitalization are not the story. Silver Linings Playbook has a totally different philosophy. It is set in the adult world, where events are not isolated, where what happens now resonates, where what happened then paralyzes. Pat's story has context. Where Perks ends with Charlie coming out of the hospital, Playlist begins with Pat coming out of the hospital. Playlist is about the consequences, about how we move on. Quick knows that these character's backstory and their relationships matter. He likes the whys of things and doesn't delight in the present, preferring to wallow in the past, like most adults I know. The narrative conceit of Pat writing down his thoughts of the day works well here. Because of the length of Pat's stay in the neural center and his powerful sedative cocktail, his memory leaks. He has to write everything down to remember everything. To Pat writing is more than putting pencil to paper, it is almost identity itself. It is how he remembers who he is. We see an example of this when he first starts to write to Nikki and he sends her two hundred pages of his journals. Maybe I'm reading too much into a one sentence explanation, but I found it moving. Pat's voice is a little hard to grasp at first. Much like Charlie's it is very child-like and naive. I think Charlie's voice comes from teenage selfishness, but Pat's voice is willful ignorance. Like his belief in silver linings and the happy ending to his movie, Pat has no room for negativity (\"practice being kind, not right\"). Pat reminded me of Poppy from Mike Leigh's Happy-Go-Lucky . Obviously Pat is far more fucked up, but Poppy also used her optimism to fight the negativity of the day. To Pat and to Poppy it is clear that happiness is a choice. And if you choose to be happy, then one day you will be. I make it sound kind of depressing, but these both are supposed to be comedies! One note on all the football talk. I come from football crazed Texas. Football talk doesn't bother me . There is a lot of it, but football is how Pat connects to his brother and father, and in some ways, to much of the world around him. It allows him to see himself as not this fucked up individual, but one member of a clan. Where his actions aren't a result of improper dosage or anger issues, but pissed-off fans. Another note on football. We don't see this level of specificity much in contemporary fiction, especially when the specific time is not the point. We're made to believe the always resetting present is the optimum setting. Quick talks about a specific Eagles season (I remember it, the events are real!). Pat identifies with the up and down Eagles so it was important for Quick to write about that specific season. Although the Eagles are pretty up and down as a whole, so he could have written about a lot of seasons. That specific season does follow the narrative thrust of Pat's story. They start off strong, then taper off and seem out of it, but then burst to life and make the play-offs. I think the specific can be universal, so I liked this. It gives his life context. God I've written a lot. Let's do the rest quick-like. The plot is good, familiar, but good. It's not as predictable as you think it would; I guess that makes it unpredictable. No, it's familiar, with some twists. The characters feel real in their oddness and quirkiness and craziness, not manufactured. When Pat's dad complains about Pat's mom spending so much money on Pat and then busts their TV and buys an expensive new TV, his character becomes rounder. Like a lot of family, he does a million tiny things wrong, but always gets the important one right, that he loves his family. It takes him a while to get there, but we do. I'm not writing quick-like. Characters good. Story good. \"Secret\" reveal expected. Ending, expected with one wrinkle. I liked the ending a lot actually. No happy endings. No swooning strings and ending on a romantic interlude. Pat doesn't get all the answers he wants. He doesn't get all his memory back. He's a little worse for wear, but he survives. That's his silver lining. ETA: I'm not a very good self-promoter. I should have linked to my previous review. Duh! ...more Also posted on rabbitsfortea Warning: This book will spoil some classics if you have yet to read them. 1. The Scarlet Letter 2. The Great Gatsby 3. A Farewell to Arms 4. The Catcher in the Rye 5. The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn 6. The Bell Jar Alright, consider yourselves warned, now onward to my short review. Silver Linings is one of those books that I wouldn't normally pick up and probably wouldn't if not for wanting to read it before I watch the movie. From the trailer, I expected a pretty light he Also posted on rabbitsfortea Warning: This book will spoil some classics if you have yet to read them. 1. The Scarlet Letter 2. The Great Gatsby 3. A Farewell to Arms 4. The Catcher in the Rye 5. The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn 6. The Bell Jar Alright, consider yourselves warned, now onward to my short review. Silver Linings is one of those books that I wouldn't normally pick up and probably wouldn't if not for wanting to read it before I watch the movie. From the trailer, I expected a pretty light hearted book with quirky characters but what I got was really different, although not entirely in a bad way. There were chapters that made me smile and chapters that made me teared but at the end of the day, I don't love this book. I saw a review on Goodreads saying that Silver Linings is like an adult Perks and I guess I do agree a little. So it's probably the case of 'it's not you, it's me' for this since I didn't exactly love Perks either. ...more Just saw the movie and I cried like a little girl.. The next day, after reading the book... Well, I'm a little disappointed in the book. The movie was excellent. I loved the chemistry between the actors, their wonderful performances and the story. I found myself skipping pages in the book whenever Pat talked about football. I didn't find Pat and Tiffany's romantic relationship credible because the book lacked the proper detailed descriptions of their heated encounters. I'm going to compare the book Just saw the movie and I cried like a little girl.. The next day, after reading the book... Well, I'm a little disappointed in the book. The movie was excellent. I loved the chemistry between the actors, their wonderful performances and the story. I found myself skipping pages in the book whenever Pat talked about football. I didn't find Pat and Tiffany's romantic relationship credible because the book lacked the proper detailed descriptions of their heated encounters. I'm going to compare the book and the movie, so brace yourselves: Here are movie Pat and Tiffany: Now here are book Pat and Tiffany: Here are some of movie Pat and Tiffany's funny and touching moments: Now here are book Pat and Tiffany's moments: Here's movie Pat and Tiffany's ending: (view spoiler) [ (hide spoiler) ] And here's book Pat and Tiffany's ending, or better yet, my reaction to it: You can see why I loved the movie. In short, I wouldn't have read this book if I hadn't seen the movie first. Good thing it was a fast read. 3 stars[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more What a fun book! I\u2019m sure it\u2019s enjoyable for anyone that doesn\u2019t have a stick up their ass, but it\u2019s the kind of book that even non-readers will love, too, because it\u2019s an easy read, and the chapters are short, and it\u2019s entertaining the whole way through, and it\u2019s funny as hell. Our narrator, <---C>Pat Peoples</---C>, is pretty crazy by society\u2019s standards. He\u2019s been in \u201cthe bad place\u201d for years, and once out, with the help of his sweet mother, he\u2019s trying to get his life back on track so he can reunite with What a fun book! I\u2019m sure it\u2019s enjoyable for anyone that doesn\u2019t have a stick up their ass, but it\u2019s the kind of book that even non-readers will love, too, because it\u2019s an easy read, and the chapters are short, and it\u2019s entertaining the whole way through, and it\u2019s funny as hell. Our narrator, Pat Peoples, is pretty crazy by society\u2019s standards. He\u2019s been in \u201cthe bad place\u201d for years, and once out, with the help of his sweet mother, he\u2019s trying to get his life back on track so he can reunite with his wife, who everyone else knows won\u2019t be coming back. So Pat knows he has to be good, and he has to be careful not to hit himself in the head, or break things when he\u2019s visited by his arch nemesis, Kenny G, or punch out Giants fans in the parking lot of Lincoln Financial Field. (Although, as a diehard Giants fan, I can still tell you that the fan in this specific scene really did deserve to get punched in the face.) And Pat\u2019s struggles are exacerbated, because it seems like nobody understands him. And when it comes down to it, aside from a \u201ccrazy\u201d girl in his neighborhood, most people don\u2019t. He gets frustrated with all those chemicals within him that make him different from others. And he even knows he\u2019s different and that his head\u2019s a little skewed, but all those chemicals are so impossible to control. Yet Pat Peoples remains childlike in his optimism. He\u2019s convinced that the movie of his life will work out. If he stays good, his wife will come back and \u201capart time\u201d will end. They can even have a daughter, because he\u2019s learned and he\u2019s going to treat his wife like gold now, and he misses her so much that he kisses her picture every night before he goes to bed. And coping mechanisms like humming and counting to ten every time he sees Kenny G, help, but Pat also needs an actual outlet . He runs and works-out all day, because before he went to the bad place for apart time he let himself get to the point where he was \u201cmaybe ten to seventy pounds overweight.\u201d And putting his full self into rooting for the Eagles helps create a way to bond with his brother and his former best friend, and -- sometimes fleetingly -- his father. But of course this book isn\u2019t about football. It\u2019s about the slow, difficult growth that takes place from someone who\u2019s been through a lot of pain, and has a lot against him, not only because of his lost loves and difficult past, but because of the sickness he can\u2019t control. And it\u2019s clear that <---A>Matthew Quick</---A> knows mental illness. He\u2019s worked in the field, and is open enough to admit that he\u2019s struggled with depression himself. This is refreshing: he knows what it\u2019s like, and it shows. It\u2019s a nearly impossible feat -- making a character with such a funny outlook on life, allowing us to laugh so hard at someone who is disturbed -- all while making this same character lovable and real, and not some kind of comical caricature, but a fellow human-being open to sympathy, in need of sympathy. But somehow Quick does it. But what I really can\u2019t understand is how this Matthew Quick guy can be from the Philadelphia area -- and even worse -- root for the Eagles. He seems so nice in the e-mails we exchanged. It makes me think that maybe he\u2019s not really from the Philadelphia area at all, but maybe his publisher or someone made him change all the references he originally had in his manuscript that were about the Giants -- who must be the team he actually roots for -- to \u201cEagles\u201d and all their corresponding players, and switched their stadiums and everything else for commercial reasons or something. Because everyone knows that people from Philadelphia don\u2019t reply friendly to e-mails, especially when they\u2019re big shot authors of books that are being turned into movies. And everyone knows that the only two things Philadelphia people do well is boo at kindergarten graduations and root for evil teams like the Eagles. But I digress. Because right now I\u2019m thinking that maybe Pat Peoples isn\u2019t so crazy. While he\u2019s experienced a lot of pain, he\u2019s actually more attuned to the moods and sensitivities of others than your average person on the street. I think that\u2019s part of what makes Pat Peoples so freakin\u2019 lovable: he knows he\u2019s crazy and even calls himself mentally deranged, but he has such a soft spot for everyone. He knows how difficult life can be, and because of that awareness, he understands the struggles of others. Because of his illness he\u2019s put up with a lot of shit that most of us will never have to. But the goddamn guy remains so positive. And with therapy and medication, and friends and family, he improves. Pat Peoples made it out of the bad place, but he\u2019s not the only one who's better off because of it. Those who are different from \u201cnormal\u201d, with their outsider view of life, can wake us up from the day-to-day world we get lost in, even opening us up to bizarre humor in the most unlikely of circumstances. And I think they can teach us that \u201ccrazy\u201d isn\u2019t something to be afraid of at all; that \u201ccrazy\u201d only means that someone doesn\u2019t fit into our norms, and is mainly just straight-up misunderstood. So I dug this book. It tickled my funny bone the whole way through, and it contained valuable messages. So: 5-stars. Minus one star because I hate the Eagles, and when they came back and beat the Giants this year in the second \u201cMiracle in the Meadowlands\u201d it made me start to cry in front of my girlfriend\u2019s brother and spun me into a minor depression that only got worse the following week when I flipped-out during my layover at Atlanta International Airport as the shared communal TV showed Brandon Jacobs fumbling just as the Giants were starting to come back against the Packers and their playoff hopes were diminished right in front of my eyes as I screamed the f-word in quick succession, and wailed and got up spilling my dinner all over my lap and onto the floor and shouted and stomped, and it scared some children and I think it made two of them cry, and I had airport security eying me up and walking towards me in case I needed to be taken away. So four stars it is. ...more Well, thank god that's over. I don't know what's wrong with me, considering everyone else seems to think this is a good book (4 stars). Me - not so much. I can see how I would like the movie though. I should just stick with that. Maybe you just can't go from Pat Conroy's \"Lords of Discipline\" and Herman Koch's \"The Dinner\" to this ... I mean, I understand the construct - but I kind of felt like the \"diary style\" writing limited the author's ability to let me really feel the story. I was so distr Well, thank god that's over. I don't know what's wrong with me, considering everyone else seems to think this is a good book (4 stars). Me - not so much. I can see how I would like the movie though. I should just stick with that. Maybe you just can't go from Pat Conroy's \"Lords of Discipline\" and Herman Koch's \"The Dinner\" to this ... I mean, I understand the construct - but I kind of felt like the \"diary style\" writing limited the author's ability to let me really feel the story. I was so distracted by how many times he said mundane and pedantic things like \"what felt like hours\" and \"I ran fast in that MAN gear - not because I am a MAN but because I am very good at running\" and the fact that HE NEVER USED A CONTRACTION. I mean, he would NOT use a contraction. It was so very irritating and stilted and annoying!! I have to say that the best part of the book was the trip through American Lit. I think my brain needs some good literature at this point after suffering through this. I'll go back now and read some Great Gatsby, The Scarlet Letter, A Farewell to Arms, Huck Finn. Yep...moving on. ...more I read many, many, many books. I am happy to read anything from classic fiction to pure escapist chic lit. I don't mind mediocre writing, gratuitous sex scenes or weak predictable plots since the authors allow me to enter another world for one or two hours every day, and for that I am grateful. Even if their books are easily forgettable, for the time that I am reading them, they are a fun way to spend my time. But every now and again a book comes along that makes me rethink my strategy of readin I read many, many, many books. I am happy to read anything from classic fiction to pure escapist chic lit. I don't mind mediocre writing, gratuitous sex scenes or weak predictable plots since the authors allow me to enter another world for one or two hours every day, and for that I am grateful. Even if their books are easily forgettable, for the time that I am reading them, they are a fun way to spend my time. But every now and again a book comes along that makes me rethink my strategy of reading everything and anything. A book that is not forgettable, that is well written and that has characters I would like to meet. <+++>The Silver Linings Playbook</+++> is such a book, and as soon as I complete this review I am going to search for other books by Matthew Quick. The book is told from the perspective of Pat Peoples, intentionally named, I am sure, to be representative of all people. Since he is definitely not mentally stable, his perspective is simple and almost childlike. He has an unshakeable belief in a happy ending and is determined to take responsibility for creating his own happy ending. Through him we meet a cast of characters who are neither good nor bad, but just ordinary people who make mistakes and try to fix them. It is about the love of family, the loyalty of friends, the need to put right what is wrong and most importantly the search for happy endings. I could spend hours talking about each and every character, but that would spoil the book for you. However, Pat's mother deserves a special mention. As a mother I completely identified with her unconditional love of her son. I loved that she bought him trendy clothes and an entire home gym and know exactly why she did it. If you can't fix your child inside, then you will try to fix the outside. What you absolutely cannot do, as a mother, is nothing! Visit my Blog Another Book Blogger for more of my reviews. ...more I.. LOVED this book. So heartbreakingly honest... so funny and real. Pat Peoples has been in \"the bad place\" for years. He is, by anyone's definition, crazy. He's violent, he has forgotten years of his life, and his arch nemesis is jazz musician Kenny G... but he's endlessly and relentlessly hopeful. He believes in silver linings above anything else... and he believes that by trying to become the best man he can, he will eventually reach his own silver lining. His father seems to have his own iss I.. LOVED this book. So heartbreakingly honest... so funny and real. Pat Peoples has been in \"the bad place\" for years. He is, by anyone's definition, crazy. He's violent, he has forgotten years of his life, and his arch nemesis is jazz musician Kenny G... but he's endlessly and relentlessly hopeful. He believes in silver linings above anything else... and he believes that by trying to become the best man he can, he will eventually reach his own silver lining. His father seems to have his own issues... he is distant and moody and his affection for Pat is anything but obvious. His mother is the eternal nurturer and protector, and his younger brother supports Pat no matter what. Pat's therapist also becomes very attached to Pat and friendly with Pat as he helps him overcome his mental blocks and unstable moods. Pat Peoples is a character you cannot help but love and root for. Tiffany has been through her own struggles. She is a compulsive liar and she, too, suffers from a sickness that she cannot control. In each other, Pat and Tiffany find a common ground and a unique bond. This was just a beautifully told story about struggle and optimism. Despite everything, \"crazy\" Pat Peoples sympathizes with others. He believes in working hard for success and being kind, not right. This book has a valuable message and a wonderful delivery. I absolutely adored it. ...more Update: I finished this book a day ago and it's really stayed with me. I've been thinking about the earnestness of Pat. He had such good intentions! He was focused on being kind instead of being right, which is an attitude that could help many of us. He was focused on improving his mind and on trying new things -- more positive attributes. He wanted to be nicer to his family and he exercised every day -- both good things. If he didn't have an anger problem, he would make a great friend! I increa Update: I finished this book a day ago and it's really stayed with me. I've been thinking about the earnestness of Pat. He had such good intentions! He was focused on being kind instead of being right, which is an attitude that could help many of us. He was focused on improving his mind and on trying new things -- more positive attributes. He wanted to be nicer to his family and he exercised every day -- both good things. If he didn't have an anger problem, he would make a great friend! I increased my rating to 4 stars because of how much I have enjoyed the story, even after finishing it. Original Review: This was a fun, fast read. I like books that cover psychological and sociological aspects, and this was an interesting take on a narrator who is anxious, obsessive-compulsive and who is recovering from a trauma. It's the story of Pat, who was just released from a mental institution and is obsessed with getting back together with his ex-wife, Nikki. Pat is an optimist and only wants to hear about happy endings. He's convinced his life is a movie that will have a happy reunion with his wife if only he can improve himself enough. He exercises vigorously and has been reading classic literature when he's not working out -- he thinks Nikki will be impressed by how fit he is and how he's improving his mind. (His reactions to the plots of The Great Gatsby, A Farewell to Arms, The Bell Jar and the Adventures of Huckleberry Finn are highly amusing.) We don't learn why Pat was in the mental institution until later in the book, but we can guess it has something to do with his violent outbursts. He goes into a rage when he hears a Kenny G song, he attacks his mother and he gets into a brawl at a Philadelphia Eagles game. His first week back home with his parents, Pat gets invited to a dinner party where he meets Tiffany, who is also struggling with a trauma, and the two slowly become friends. There is a fun storyline in which the two compete in a dance contest, and Pat hopes that Nikki will be impressed that he's trying new things. I had seen the movie version, but I liked how the book fleshed out the characters and the thought processes of Pat. The writing is fairly strong and is done all in Pat's voice, so we really see his neuroses at work. We also get a better sense of the strained relationship with Pat's father, who has similar anger issues and seems to have obsessive-compulsive disorder. I would recommend the book to those who like family dramas, psychological issues or stories of redemption. ...more Pat Peoples has been confined to the \u2018bad place\u2019, but he finally gets to leave and live with his parents until he can get back on his feet. Pat\u2019s main goal is to continue on a path of self-improvement including working on being kinder, strenuous exercise and reading books so he'll be a better husband when he finally sees his beloved wife Nikki again after their \u2018apart time\u2019. Pat likes being home, but his moody father refuses to talk to him unless the Philadelphia Eagles win. Plus, his mother and Pat Peoples has been confined to the \u2018bad place\u2019, but he finally gets to leave and live with his parents until he can get back on his feet. Pat\u2019s main goal is to continue on a path of self-improvement including working on being kinder, strenuous exercise and reading books so he'll be a better husband when he finally sees his beloved wife Nikki again after their \u2018apart time\u2019. Pat likes being home, but his moody father refuses to talk to him unless the Philadelphia Eagles win. Plus, his mother and his therapist are both encouraging him to spend time with Tiffany, a very strange woman who was recently widowed. It\u2019s almost like no one understands that he\u2019s still married to Nikki. As he works on becoming a better person, Pat gets to attend the Eagles home games with his brother and makes a lot of friends at the pre-game tailgates. As they start winning, the superstitious fans think that Pat is good luck, and even his father becomes much friendlier. As long as he can control his temper and continues to work hard, Pat is sure that he\u2019ll get the kind of happy ending you see in the movies. Since this is about a guy whose life has been shattered and he doesn\u2019t even realize it, you\u2019d think Pat\u2019s story would be incredibly sad. Instead, the bittersweet humor that Mathew Quick has laced the book with makes it a pleasure to read instead of a depressing slog. Pat\u2019s devotion to the cause of reuniting with Nikki can be simultaneously infuriating and endearing, and while we only get his usually slightly bewildered view point, you can also completely understand how those around him are feeling. Quick also does a particularly nice job of detailing the highs and lows of sports fandom. Pat bonds with his brother and becomes part of a community while tailgating. The team provides him a link to his emotionally distant and stubborn father. Even his therapist is a rabid Eagle\u2019s fan, and this helps Pat to trust and like him. While the games provide great entertainment and instant connections, there\u2018s also a big downside to them. An ugly incident with a rival team\u2019s fan in the parking lot illustrates how sports fans can be merciless and brutal. (It also shows that wearing a rival team\u2019s jersey to a game in Philly is a spectacularly bad idea.) Pat\u2019s dad is so wrapped up in the Eagles that a loss can make him even harder to live with. When Pat makes a commitment to Tiffany that causes him to miss some games, everyone begins blaming him for the losses. (However, I couldn\u2019t be too critical of the characters being superstitious because I wore the same red t-shirt on game day when the Kansas City Chiefs started their season with 9 straight wins. After they lost 3 in a row, I decided the shirt had run out of mojo and switched to a gold one. Since they won the next 2 games, it\u2019s obvious that the shirt I wear has a profound impact on the team.) I also very much enjoyed the movie version of this. Even though it\u2019s a fairly faithful adaptation there are also several big differences that made reading the novel surprising in several ways so this is one of those incidents where it\u2019s well worth checking out both versions. ...more A darkly comedic novel, fresh and just plain fun. Ignore the screaming chick-lit cover & book blurb, obviously the marketing department was calling the shots. Recently released from a 4 year gig in a mental institution, Pat People is fixated on reconciling with his ex-wife. With heartbreaking tunnel-vision he believes as long as he has an uber-positive attitude he\u2019ll win her back. It\u2019s a great debut, a quirky story that grapples with an eclectic mix of subjects including mental illness, the A darkly comedic novel, fresh and just plain fun. Ignore the screaming chick-lit cover & book blurb, obviously the marketing department was calling the shots. Recently released from a 4 year gig in a mental institution, Pat People is fixated on reconciling with his ex-wife. With heartbreaking tunnel-vision he believes as long as he has an uber-positive attitude he\u2019ll win her back. It\u2019s a great debut, a quirky story that grapples with an eclectic mix of subjects including mental illness, the dynamics of a dysfunctional family, love, rejection, football & dancing. Pathos & humour brought to you by a truly jaw dropping glimpse into the cult like fanaticism of seriously obsessed sports fans and the lunacy of a \u201cDance Away Depression\" competition. For a good 1/3 of the book I was thinking give me a break, enough with the \u2018behind every cloud is a silver lining\u2019 shtick. That is till the sheer force of Pat\u2019s personality won me over. Imagine Forrest Gump with a major attitude problem prone to fits of rage. Yes it\u2019s a bit predictable, I didn\u2019t care. Plus any book with an uplifting message seems to get pegged as lightweight. Disagree - it managed to avoid the cheese factor with a reality check. Life can be brutal \u2013 but in a good way. For originality and pure entertainment value 4 \u00bd stars. Made me feel good, I'm rounding up to 5 Not spoilers just Pat\u2019s thoughts on classic American literature and offered as a taste of the humour. If you're not amused doubtful you'll like the book, I'd say give it a pass. (view spoiler) [ A Farewell to Arms Hemingway\u2019s best love story. I eagerly crack open the book and can feel myself getting smarter as I turn the first few pages. But the novel is nothing but a trick. He thinks up the worst ending imaginable: I will not be quoting Hemingway anytime soon, nor will I ever read another one of his books. And if he were still alive, I would write him a letter right now and threaten to strangle him dead with my bare hands just for being so glum. The Bell Jar by Sylvia Plath: At first, even though it is really depressing, this book excites me because it deals with mental health, a subject I am very interested in. Esther loses her virginity, hemorrhages during the process, and almost bleeds to death\u2014like Catherine in A Farewell to Arms\u2014 and I do wonder why women are always hemorrhaging in American literature. I actually rip the book in half and throw the two halves at my bedroom wall. (hide spoiler) ] ...more There are good books and there are bad books, period, that's the distinction. Norton Juster It appears that this book was structured, not around a plot but around a shamelessly badly rendered character. This idea could have been surprisingly successful, if in the hands of a author who knows his craft. 2d characters. You can almost hear the echo of their cries as they wither in a lack of creativity and the weight of their soul crush monotony. The main character is a narcissistic, obsessed, chil There are good books and there are bad books, period, that's the distinction. Norton Juster It appears that this book was structured, not around a plot but around a shamelessly badly rendered character. This idea could have been surprisingly successful, if in the hands of a author who knows his craft. 2d characters. You can almost hear the echo of their cries as they wither in a lack of creativity and the weight of their soul crush monotony. The main character is a narcissistic, obsessed, child who had the cognitive abilities of a ten year old boy, pampered by a mother with low self-esteem and tremendous enmeshment issues. He seems to process information at an incredibly slow speed and perceives thing with such little competence that it is truly astonishing; think gold fish. Seriously, referring to a psychiatric facility as the \"bad place\" when he is a thirty something year old? Does he also sleep with a teddy bear and call his mom into his room, petrified of the monster in the closet? His behavior has nothing to do with his diagnosis but completely and totally everything to do with a poor conceived central character. He demonstrates borderline tendencies, but these are so poorly constructed and demonstrated that it almost distracts the reader. In the movie they outlined a decent, although simplistic illustration of bipolar disorder. In the book he pops so many pills he is a walking drug store. Even when skipping his medication he doesn't demonstrate any significant symptomatology. So, are we just to assume that the author wrote a novel about a bloated, stereotypical man? Cause Seriously that's been done. We also have a therapist that acts in an unethical, immoral, and haphazard manner. This is dangerous in a climate that isolates those who seek out therapists, and in a dangerous time in history where mental health awareness is paramount to a functioning society. There is some serious misguided bullshit here. The father/ son relationship can really be summed up by: Homer (IE father Pat Peoples): Stupid boy. All you do is cost me money. Money I could be wasting.\" (on a TV after i threw the remote at the old one)... \"Albus Dumbledore (IE: Pat Peoples): Don't ignore me\" ... Chip (IE: Pat Peoples): [being spanked as part of Omega's initiation] Thank you, sir! May I have another?.... and repeat Tension between father and son fell completely flat and was absolutely noteless. The very fabrication of this relationship was so poorly constructed that it surpasses expectations of how horrible a character's relationship with another major character could be. The dialog is tone death, the relations between characters non-distinct. The characters so under developed it seems they are a carbon copy of one another, almost cartoony in an 80s retro before technology sorta way. A rip off of about ten other books;see other reviews; http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... Trite, repetitive and under develop plot lines. It appears that little effort was put into the majority of the plot and especially the smaller sub plots. Crazy ass bastard is totally scary obsessed with his ex wife (of whom he has NOT seen for four years); it's just really creepy; like restraining order creep fest. It echos the whole box plot device of This is Why We Broke Up ; switch out box for ex-wife. Yet, by some extraordinary means, this is even worse than This is Why We Broke Up. A downright disgrace to a movie that, while completely and utterly flawed, at least held strings of suspense and character development. It at least had a twinkle of self respect and dignity. This book, on the other hand is the complete absence of those qualities and lacks craft, and exudes a lack of skill and sophistication. If this was project runway I could hear Tim Gunn saying \"Congratulations on this perfect example of an overworked, underwhelming piece\" ...more Here I am again to the part where I don't know exactly what to say about a book I loved. Anyway, <+++>The Silver Linings Playbook</+++> is an engaging, poignant novel that touched a lot of things: mental health, silver linings (obviously), brotherhood, parentage, lies, friendship, love, betterment of oneself, etc. It also touched my heart, my soul, my kidney, my liver, my pancreas and ten of my vital organs lol. (Here's me doing my best to give justice on why this book is worth a read.) See, I can't articu Here I am again to the part where I don't know exactly what to say about a book I loved. Anyway, The Silver Linings Playbook is an engaging, poignant novel that touched a lot of things: mental health, silver linings (obviously), brotherhood, parentage, lies, friendship, love, betterment of oneself, etc. It also touched my heart, my soul, my kidney, my liver, my pancreas and ten of my vital organs lol. (Here's me doing my best to give justice on why this book is worth a read.) See, I can't articulate the right words. Hahaha. Personally, The Silver Linings Playbook book made me happy (because Jennifer Lawrence is in the cover! \"OMG Katniss what are you doing there?\" ) and sad at the same time. Also, hopeful. I did smile a lot and chuckled with some parts I've read and be emotional whenever Pat is in the middle of something that can crush him. It's contagious, okay. I mean I can connect well with Pat Peoples so seeing him sad makes me sad, too. But, I really felt sorry for him when the truth has been revealed, not that his efforts will be wasted but because it was really devastating knowing the truth. Besides, I love every character in this novel. They aren't one-dimensional characters because even they weren't fully fleshed-out, there are something intriguing about them that can affect the main character or even the story. Also, I didn't mind the football theme of the book. I'd rather witnessed and enjoyed the way Pat and others support their favorite team which is actually enlivening if you'd asked me. My favorite part of this book is the dance. An interpretative dance of Total Eclipse of the Heart. Oh, gods. The feels. When I'm reading this part, I swear it was breath-taking and flawless and mesmerizing that I've become emotional and feel things beyond my comprehension. With this kind novel, I don't exactly note every detail about everything. I just let the story grab and take me. I just let the words and sentences flow to its destination and enjoy or rather feel the ride. And I am thankful that it didn't disappoint. My only complain is that The Silver Linings Playbook spoiled a lot of good classic books. Oh gods no. ...more The movie is better than the book. Normally, it is the reverse but this is one of the exceptions. The movie got nominated in the 2013 Oscars for Best Picture, Actor in a Leading Role, Actress in a Leading Role (won), Actor in a Supporting Role, Actress in a Supporting Role, Directing, Film Editing and Writing. I finished reading the book yesterday and so I bought a pirated DVD copy and watched it today. The movie people made the dull book somewhat better. Dull because it is all a rehash. I've seen The movie is better than the book. Normally, it is the reverse but this is one of the exceptions. The movie got nominated in the 2013 Oscars for Best Picture, Actor in a Leading Role, Actress in a Leading Role (won), Actor in a Supporting Role, Actress in a Supporting Role, Directing, Film Editing and Writing. I finished reading the book yesterday and so I bought a pirated DVD copy and watched it today. The movie people made the dull book somewhat better. Dull because it is all a rehash. I've seen enough of the mentally-challenged people who have golden innocent hearts in the past. Think Tom Hanks in 1994 movie Forrest Gump and Logan Lerman in last year's The Perks of Being a Wallflower . The story of Pat Peoples here in The Silver Linings Playbook basically follows the same plot as those of Forrest and Charlie. People find them all adorable because we all have our own deficiencies and these fictional characters triumph over theirs despite the fact that they are more mentally-challenged that most of us. The book is heavy on references to soccer and Pat People's addiction to exercise. These were both toned down in the movie. Pat and Kitty did not dance to Bonnie Tyler's Total Eclipse of the Heart but to some remix of tunes that I and my family thought would make them win like in the book. The movie also injected many dramatic scenes that made the story more memorable at least for me. However, the believability of the ending is better in the book. The movie, being a movie, made it more like in the tradition of romantic comedy hits. (view spoiler) [I will not tell you whether there is really a Nikki or not in the end as I want you to find this out for yourself as this one makes a big difference between the book and the movie and obviously, I liked the movie more. (hide spoiler) ] The book is an easy read. The prints per page are few and the font is big. The language is very contemporary and the dialogue is simple and direct with the author probably trying to capture the simpleness of a lunatic man's mind and thinking. Pat People believes that his life is like a movie. Again, not an original concept (not in the movie) but there is nothing original about this book so enough said. Oh, in the movie, there is a scene when Pat Peoples throws the book out of the window. I was thinking about doing the same but it's just that I love donating my used books especially those that I least appreciated and this book will surely be included in the next batch. Overall, I don't hate this book. Just nice book to while away time especially during a long weekend like what I am having now. ...more The book is SO much better than the movie! I'm actually kind of shocked how much they changed or left out in the adaptation. If you liked the movie, you should read the book and then maybe reconsider! :) Here are seven weird \"bestselling writing tips\" suggested by this playbook to line writers' pockets with silver: 1. Use short chapters, with chapter titles consisting of a phrase taken from the end of each chapter We like short chapters because we like easily achievable goals (ie, I'm gonna read five more pages before I turn off the light and go to sleep -- OK, one more chapter -- OK, one more quick chapter -- and suddenly you've read fifty more pages and stayed up a while longer than expected). Here are seven weird \"bestselling writing tips\" suggested by this playbook to line writers' pockets with silver: 1. Use short chapters, with chapter titles consisting of a phrase taken from the end of each chapter We like short chapters because we like easily achievable goals (ie, I'm gonna read five more pages before I turn off the light and go to sleep -- OK, one more chapter -- OK, one more quick chapter -- and suddenly you've read fifty more pages and stayed up a while longer than expected). It also means more blank space, so after you've read three or four chapters you've turned a bunch of blank pages and therefore have turned more pages than you've read, which makes readers feel good about themselves and about the book. 2. Employ a damaged or \"off\" first-person POV (ie, narrator) to make writing easier Simple, straightforward, even somewhat degraded language and perception is an effective and popular technique because it kicks authorial shortcomings under the rug -- ie, there's no need for striking language, passages, insight etc since the narrator is damaged and fanciness (or to use the narrator's preferred term \"swankiness\") would be unrealistic. An easy way to pull this off is to define commonly known terms and do not use contractions (don't use \"don't\" ). 2a. Like the \"likeability\" concept. The damaged narrator herein is likeable because he's experienced trauma and is doing what he can to overcome it. Which is inspirational. And readers like inspirational books. A more ambitious novel might associate the narrator's trauma with the country's trauma post-9/11 (not the case in this one). 2b. Let the reader see around the narrator. It was moving to learn along with the narrator what he'd forgotten and what he'd missed while institutionalized (eg, the Eagles in the Super Bowl!). 2c. Bond with readers via quirky terminology. The narrator has language and behavior quirks that at first don't make much sense but over time serve as a bond between narrator and reader, like \"the bad place\" referring to the mental institution and \"apart time\" referring to the split with his wife -- also his hysterical aggressive response to the musical stylings of Kenny G. 3. Set competing love interests in motion, favoring the real over the ideal Impossible love interest for which the narrator obsessively pines comes up against a realistic love interest to which the narrator is pretty much oblivious. Readers like conflicting love interests, particularly when one is impossible and the other is unrecognized or smack in front of the protagonist's face (see \"Jerry Maguire\"). 4. Riff on popular cinematic/literary works as a substitute for insightful/thematically suggestive exposition Let's hear it for intertexuality: Narrator's ex-wife was a lit teacher so he's reading up on the American classics ( Gatsby, Huck Finn, Catcher in the Rye, The Bell Jar, Farewell to Arms ). Narrator very simply discusses themes and author therefore sort of deftly associates such themes and the corresponding classic novels with the novel in the reader's hands (see Special Topics in Calamity Physics ). Also references \"Rocky\" and \"Empire Strikes Back\" -- classic American movies -- and the narrator refers to his life as a movie while the book itself is wholly dramatized and therefore feels \"cinematic,\" as though it might lend itself well to the big screen. The self-consciously cinematic bit where the narrative is presented as a montage like in \"Rocky\" when Stallone is training (and narrator suggests that reader hum the Rocky theme while reading) may have been where I began to feel the novel unravel a bit -- things got a little rushed about 60% through, starting with this montage, followed by short letters and clipped scenes. I didn't mind different textures in the second half of the book but I did feel like things fell off a bit as a consequence: a four-star book up until the montage? 5. Serve the Community It helps to have a book deal with a microculture that most people don't have access to but which makes readers feel good when immersed in it thanks to narrator's immersion. This isn't really a book about the Eagles -- a team I've seriously rooted for since the late 1970s and read about daily even in the off-season etc -- it's about the community that revolves around the game, the fandom that brings people together. These scenes made my old heartstrings emerge. Again, it's not about the Eagles (although it nicely uses real player names and actual events in the 2006 Eagles season, for example the Terrell Owens pill overdose) -- it could've used any team with a fanatical fan base. 6. Remember that family matters, particularly father/son issues The father (portrayed by DeNiro in the movie) is a great character in this since he's clearly on the spectrum but older and therefore not diagnosed. His hysteria about the Eagles and change in general suggest a history of mental illness he's masked through routine (Eagles obsession and reading historical fiction). Meanwhile, the mother throws her hand to her mouth whenever father and son do the Eagles chant (minor point: no one yells \"ahhh\" before starting it and no one spells it out with their bodies) and sobs, which is affecting at first but over time seemed sort of sappy (ie, emotionally manipulative). The bit where the narrator takes the baby into the ocean freaked me out as the father of a one year old -- that's emotionally manipulative up the wazoo, presenting a scene involving an endangered child. 7. Withhold major traumatic events until the end Traumatic events for the narrator and Tiffany were withheld to the end but their revelation was spoiled for me thanks to the movie. I'm not sure how I would've responded to the scenes at the end if I didn't already know them. They explain a lot but also it seems like the narrator would've had a history of violence or at least a few more episodes. Anyway, the traumatic events could've been revealed in the first scenes as a gripping opener but then the reader wouldn't be disoriented along with the narrator and the revelation of the major withheld plot point wouldn't be cathartic for the narrator and possibly satisfying for a reader. + Anyway, other than being a life-long Eagles fan and a Philly resident, why did I read this? I read it thanks to a friend's ranting about it recently -- he's actually been ranting about it since it came out a few years ago (I hope he has the first edition hardcover -- it's worth more than $100 these days), in part because he's a writer who wrote a semi-similar book, a memoir ( Bury Me in My Jersey: A Memoir of My Father, Football, and Philly ), that came out around the same time and wasn't made into an award-winning movie that surely made Matthew Quick presumably/possibly wealthy. So I was repeatedly told over the course of a few years that this novel was not something I'd like at all -- and since I also saw the movie -- I was interested in giving it a try after hearing my friend rant about it again a week or two ago. Plus, every once in a while I like to descend from hi-falutin snotty lit perch and read pop books and be reminded of the sort of thing so-called \"general readers\" like to read. In general, for me, 3.5 stars rounded down since the ending seemed sentimental and unrealistic, particularly the bit cut from the film where the narrator winds up in North Philadelphia in front of the house of his \"black friend Danny.\" (The narrator is touched, so he gets all sorts of passes a reliable narrator wouldn't -- also it's clear that the author is aware of what he's doing with the narrator's voice and perspective on race etc.) North Philadelphia is larger than most cities in the United States. It's a Christmas miracle, sure, but totally unrealistic and sort of lazy. No wonder it was cut from the movie. Other than a few stray descriptions of the Walt Whitman bridge (\"hospital green\") and the subway to North Philly (graffiti on the seats and half a cheeseburger in the middle of the aisle), Philadelphia itself isn't described much. Street names are mentioned -- he walks right past where I work and walk every day (Market Street toward the Delaware River) and they go to Pat's Steaks, two blocks from where I'm writing this now -- but he doesn't really describe what it's like. Philadelphia is sometimes referred to as \"Negadelphia,\" since many folks really do excel at pessimism, especially sports fans, so the narrator's therapy-induced optimism makes a lot of sense in this part of the world. Overall, I enjoyed reading it, wanted to read it, smiled many times and laughed a few times (mostly at the Eagles-related community stuff, particularly the Asian Invasion -- a gang of Indian men in #20 Brian Dawkins jerseys -- and when they shared chicken tikka with the narrator's friends I got a little verklempt), admired it as a guidebook for how to write a popular novel (see numbered list above), rooted for the narrator and the damaged eye-level love interest and also wanted things to work out for the mother and father. Memorable images throughout (running ten miles wearing trash bag, ordering Raisin Bran at the diner and giving a huge tip, brother playing piano in his high-rise apartment wearing Eagles jersey) but a forgettable ending, possibly in part because the traumatic episodes were spoiled for me by the film. Also, again, unlike with most books, I came to this with chronically reduced expectations thanks to my friend and after having seen the movie. Having liked the movie just fine and expecting the worst when opening the book, I was surprised it wasn't a total piece of trash -- it had some emotionally affecting bits (particularly as the narrator learns about everything he's missed over the past few years as he's been institutionalized), some funny bits, and was clear and quick for the most part (although the last third or so felt rushed). Overall, a lot like the movie, it was perfectly adequate literary entertainment with some sadness and humor and light existential lessons (AKA mainstream pop). Do I generally expect more from novels? Totally. But I felt this did a good job doing what it wanted to do: it's an accessible, sad, sometimes funny novel involving sports fanaticism and obsession/mental illness, not to mention family, hope, longing, love, loss. Final verdict: reading stuff like this reminds me why I usually read stuff unlike it, but I'm glad I read it and feel like I learned something from it about how such novels are made. ...more After spending a long time in a mental health facility, Pat Peoples returns home and is ready to get his life back together. Pat is convinced that his destiny is to become more physically fit and to read more classic literature so that his estranged wife Nikki will come back to him. But now that he's at home, things aren't quite right. His family refuses to talk about his wife, his favorite football team (the Philadelphia Eagles) keeps losing games, and now a strange woman named Tiffany is start After spending a long time in a mental health facility, Pat Peoples returns home and is ready to get his life back together. Pat is convinced that his destiny is to become more physically fit and to read more classic literature so that his estranged wife Nikki will come back to him. But now that he's at home, things aren't quite right. His family refuses to talk about his wife, his favorite football team (the Philadelphia Eagles) keeps losing games, and now a strange woman named Tiffany is starting to show interest in him \u2026 This is one of the rare cases in which I saw the movie before reading the book. It's also one of the rare cases in which I think the movie did a better job with a lot of aspects of the story \u2026 but more on that later. I see I'm not the only person who thought of this book as kind of being an adult version of The Perks of Being a Wallflower . The narration was very similar, I thought\u2013\u2013very simple and to-the-point, with a lot of little philosophical tidbits frequently thrown in. And it deals with some of the same issues\u2013\u2013particularly mental health. (The stories are quite different, though.) For the most part, I thought it worked \u2026 but there were times when I was kind of confused by the structure of the narration. I think it was mentioned a few times that Pat was writing this story down, like a journal type of thing. But then a lot of it was in present tense, which felt kind of odd for a journal format. And \u2026 I don't know. It was just unclear for me. I liked the story for the most part. I think there's an important message about how things don't always turn out the way we anticipated, and sometimes it's better to just let things fall into place rather than to fight to get to an implausible goal. There are numerous \"happy endings\" that could happen, and not all of them are what we expect. However, there were some things in the execution of the story that bothered me. Probably the biggest problem for me was that I didn't feel most of the characters were very strong. Pat has a distinctive narrating voice and is a pretty good character over all \u2026 but I didn't feel like anyone else in the book was that interesting or memorable. (I don't want to constantly compare the book to the movie, but I felt the movie did a better job of characterizing everyone, even the minor characters. I thought Tiffany in particular was a much stronger character in the film.) There were also a lot of little \"quirks\" that I just didn't like. For one, I got kind of tired of Pat constantly talking about how he thinks of his life as being a movie. It's the kind of thing that could have just been mentioned once and that would've been fine. But the constant \"my life is a movie, my life is a movie\" got pretty annoying for me. Also, there was Pat's tendency to keep mentioning his (token black) friend Danny in a kind of \u2026 offensive manner. For example: \"He is also wearing a watch with diamonds all over the face, which Danny would call Jake's bling-bling.\" \u2026 *Cringe* There was also a point in the book where the narration was written in letters, which might have been okay if it had just been like, two or three letters \u2026 but it was like, ten. And that got rather tiresome in my opinion. Also, I really hate football so \u2026 the numerous football parts were very boring for me. But other than that, I thought this book was a fairly good read. I didn't think it was amazing, but it wasn't bad either. It's not executed perfectly, but it's a cute story. Anyway, I think the book and movie are both worth experiencing. (But unlike me, you should all probably read it before watching it \u2026 haha.) ...more Pat Peoples has suffered a mental breakdown following a traumatic event in his life. He\u2019s been institutionalised for some time but is about to go home. He dreams of being reunited with his estranged wife, Nikki, and in the meantime he\u2019s working out (endlessly) and following his favourite American Football team, the Philadelphia Eagles. The story has already been made into a successful film it's therefore not surprising that the book very much has a film script feel. I suppose it\u2019s also an ok hol Pat Peoples has suffered a mental breakdown following a traumatic event in his life. He\u2019s been institutionalised for some time but is about to go home. He dreams of being reunited with his estranged wife, Nikki, and in the meantime he\u2019s working out (endlessly) and following his favourite American Football team, the Philadelphia Eagles. The story has already been made into a successful film it's therefore not surprising that the book very much has a film script feel. I suppose it\u2019s also an ok holiday read, which is a good thing as I got through the whole thing whilst lounging on a beach bed. It's not very long, not particularly taxing but it is reasonably entertaining. As time progresses we watch Pat struggle with his condition, become re-united with family and friends and meet a woman who is similarly recovering from a traumatic event. It's pretty clear where this one is headed from early on and despite a number of small surprises along the way it does travel the predicted path. I admire the attempt to deal with the difficult subject of mental illness but my main grumble is that the message seemed a little over-earnest for my tastes \u2013 e.g. 'try to be kind not right\u2019 was the much repeated mantra Pat had adopted from his therapist. Also the attempt to follow a successful season for the Eagles along side the main narrative felt a little overdone (I lost count of the number of times the team chant was recited!) Probably more a 2.5 than a 3 \u2013 but after a good day on the beach I'm feeling generous. ...more This is has become one of those books that I really, really enjoyed reading, but couldn't quite put my finger on exactly why. I mean, I watched the movie before and absolutely fell in love with it. I'd heard that the book and movie were very different so I wasn't expecting a perfect match (I think this helped as well.) I found myself just falling in love with Pat and Tiffany's COMPLETELY messed up lives for some reason and was rooting for them the entire book. Not just romantically.. I was reall This is has become one of those books that I really, really enjoyed reading, but couldn't quite put my finger on exactly why. I mean, I watched the movie before and absolutely fell in love with it. I'd heard that the book and movie were very different so I wasn't expecting a perfect match (I think this helped as well.) I found myself just falling in love with Pat and Tiffany's COMPLETELY messed up lives for some reason and was rooting for them the entire book. Not just romantically.. I was really, really hoping that each of them got the happy endings that they deserved. I can't believe how far Pat has come from the beginning to the end of this book. I don't know.. some books just really speak to you and it's hard to put it into words.. I definitely recommend this book! ...more I really thought this was 'that stupid book' everyone loves and I would hate. Funny fact: I loved it. Certainly a moving and entertaining fable about an obsessive love by a man recovering from a psychotic break. I liked how the nuttiness of the therapist about the Philadelphia Eagles and extreme behaviors of the fans shows levels of insanity among the larger society. But the story just keeps hitting the same notes again and again, and I got tired of being in Pat\u2019s mind and his noble quest to be worthy of a life with silver linings. Damage is done to any meaningful public comprehension of mental Certainly a moving and entertaining fable about an obsessive love by a man recovering from a psychotic break. I liked how the nuttiness of the therapist about the Philadelphia Eagles and extreme behaviors of the fans shows levels of insanity among the larger society. But the story just keeps hitting the same notes again and again, and I got tired of being in Pat\u2019s mind and his noble quest to be worthy of a life with silver linings. Damage is done to any meaningful public comprehension of mental illness. Just as so much literature of the past led them to believe that multiple personalities was a common solution of the afflicted to deal with life\u2019s contradictions, the outcome here is to make us believe that total mental blanking out and revision of a non-war trauma is a common or plausible response. Even for childhood trauma, the incidence of a total mental barrier of its memory, what Freud called hysteria, is not typically the mountain to mental healing and key to the work of psychotherapy as he made it out to be. Maybe if I hadn\u2019t seen the movie first I would have been more forgiving and uplifted by this book. ...more Pat Peoples is a former history teacher who moves back home after spending some time in a neurology hospital. He has a theory that every life is like a movie and he is just waiting for his silver lining ending, the successful reunion with his wife Nikki. Pat spends his time on self improvement, determined this will help end \u2018apart time\u2019, he exercises excessively and reads great American literature. He meets Tiffany and soon becomes friends because of their similarities; physically fit and clinic Pat Peoples is a former history teacher who moves back home after spending some time in a neurology hospital. He has a theory that every life is like a movie and he is just waiting for his silver lining ending, the successful reunion with his wife Nikki. Pat spends his time on self improvement, determined this will help end \u2018apart time\u2019, he exercises excessively and reads great American literature. He meets Tiffany and soon becomes friends because of their similarities; physically fit and clinically depressed. While this started off reminding me of The Perks of Being a Wallflower, I soon got really bored with this book. Not only was the novel predictable, it was clich\u00e9d and failed to hold my interest at all. The narrative felt really dumbed down, like it was trying more to be a YA novel; actually this might be a good example of New Adult fiction. But this really annoyed me, just because someone is clinically depressed, an exercise junky, football fan or any of the other reasons doesn\u2019t mean they are not intelligent. So the narrative felt more like the author making fun of the protagonist and I really had a problem with that. There are so many great American novels and when Pat sets out to read the entire syllabus of his wife\u2019s class to improve himself you can\u2019t help but be proud of him. The Bell Jar, The Great Gatsby and The Sun Also Rises are all great books but they don\u2019t really fit into Pat\u2019s philosophy on life. I love the way he reacts to The Sun Also Rises in the movie trailer, it was done so much better than in the book, that rage for the ending was brilliant. I know Pat wants a silver lining in every story, so I found it really amusing to think he would read those books that don\u2019t fit his personal philosophy. Personally I did want to explore more of the depression side of this novel because I felt there were some very interesting elements explored but instead the author was more interested in a clich\u00e9d romance. There were two love stories going on here, the generic one between Pat and Tiffany, and then there was the love of Philadelphia Eagles. Personally the Eagles story arc was more interesting because the Pat and Tiffany relationship was painful to read. I\u2019m not a fan of clich\u00e9s and reading about Pat and Tiffany become a real problem with me; I knew what was going to happen, I can see it coming from the start but it wasn\u2019t executed properly. Almost like the author was running out of pages and he had to quickly resolve and conflict and have a happy ending before the end of the book. The conflict resolution was done too quickly; you can\u2019t really go from hating a person to changing your mind and kissing a person that quick, it just doesn\u2019t work. There are small elements of this book that I enjoyed but the overall novel wasn\u2019t worth it. I will say one thing about this book; it will make a great movie. I\u2019ve not seen the adaptation yet but I have a feeling it would work really well in that format, as people just love a happy ending and these types of romance movies. Personally I think the book isn\u2019t work reading and maybe the movie is a quicker way to experience this story. This review orginally appeared on my blog; http://literary-exploration.com/2013/... ...more This novel felt like so much more than a debut novel. It felt wonderful and powerful and tinged with emotion, and I walked away from it with a sense of enrichment and fulfillment. Had I not read THE SILVER LININGS PLAYBOOK, I\u2019d still be the same person I am now, but I would\u2019ve missed out on this opportunity to forget who I was for a few hours over the course of this character driven tale. Although this story is dark and psychological and filled with regret and anger and frustration, I\u2019d still sa This novel felt like so much more than a debut novel. It felt wonderful and powerful and tinged with emotion, and I walked away from it with a sense of enrichment and fulfillment. Had I not read THE SILVER LININGS PLAYBOOK, I\u2019d still be the same person I am now, but I would\u2019ve missed out on this opportunity to forget who I was for a few hours over the course of this character driven tale. Although this story is dark and psychological and filled with regret and anger and frustration, I\u2019d still say I obtained a certain amount of pleasure from this story, mainly because the characters felt lifelike with realistic problems, and I was so enamored with this tale that Pat Peoples could have been my next door neighbor and Tiffany could have lived on the next block over. And not just because Tiffany and Pat took to the pavement with as much joy as I do, getting a runner\u2019s high with every mile, the endorphins shooting through their veins the same way an IV drip would. And not just because Pat and Jake and Dr. Cliff Patel and Mr. Peoples and the Asian Invasion felt as much love for the Philadelphia Eagles as I do the Pittsburgh Steelers, bouncing on air with every win and feeling every loss like a swift kick to the groin. But because despite Tiffany\u2019s and Pat\u2019s problems, both of them still view life with a certain amount of optimism, and despite their flaws\u2014and let\u2019s face it both of them have a few\u2014they are better people for not being perfect, for recognizing their defects and embracing their differences, and lifting themselves up when they could just as easily show rapid signs of despair. There\u2019s strength and power in recognizing you\u2019re not perfect. I\u2019d be remiss without mentioning the voice which felt like it was encased in childlike wonder and hope and strength, and I embraced it head-on without sidestepping or looking away or skirting off the dance floor. And I loved the rather unique way this story was told, coupled with the eight letters in the latter half of this tale, so much so that I just had to purchase THE PERKS OF BEING A WALLFLOWER, which as I understand it is told almost entirely, if not entirely, through letters and in some ways has a similar structure and feel. Had I not heard of the movie, I might not have heard of this novel, and that would have been a tragedy of infinite proportions. There are few better ways to embrace a literary world than with a healthy dose of realism, and this novel explores several of these avenues with a cast of convincing characters. ...more Who cries after listening to Bonnie Tyler's Total Eclipse of the Heart? Pat Peoples, the offbeat hero of The Silver Linings Playbook. When in a difficult situation where retaliating through violence or similar abuse is probable, he runs away, literally, from the situation, until he can feel his tears mixing with his sweat. Yes, Pat is a man who cries when he's being unkind. He's special that way. So everyday he improves his mind by reading books and everyday he improves his body by running and lif Who cries after listening to Bonnie Tyler's Total Eclipse of the Heart? Pat Peoples, the offbeat hero of The Silver Linings Playbook. When in a difficult situation where retaliating through violence or similar abuse is probable, he runs away, literally, from the situation, until he can feel his tears mixing with his sweat. Yes, Pat is a man who cries when he's being unkind. He's special that way. So everyday he improves his mind by reading books and everyday he improves his body by running and lifting weights. And he improves his soul by sincerely being friends with a woman who can give him nothing, it seems, a woman he isn't married to. My favorite scene was when Pat was holding his best friend's daughter, Emily, in the water, just treading and letting the waves and the sun embrace them and realizing in that one unexpected moment that he can be happy doing just that, just swimming with a little girl, so he kisses her chubby cheeks repeatedly and vows to create a little girl of his own. That went straight to my female heart. Very few men I know reveal their true feelings about their families and children so it's heart-warming to know when they do. Another thing of note in this book is how the author reveals our treatment of people who are mentally unstable, how we glorify their perceived weaknesses. And it's tragic how we can be unkind to and disrespectful of people who are just having a hard time dealing with all the shit the world gives them, as if we got it all figured out ourselves and that our perfect lives is something to be admired or aspired to. I like Pat Peoples, not because he's sweet in his delusion that he'll ever get back his old life, but because he sincerely wants to rebuild himself into a better man. So if all men were like Pat Peoples, I wouldn't mind if they cry over the silliest of love songs. Because if they can cry over a love song, they can cry over the smallest unkindness or injustice. God knows, the world needs more men like that. ...more Philadelphia is not only the home of the quintessentially American Liberty Bell, cheese steak, and Rocky, but now Philadelphia offers us another American original: Pat Peoples, the neurologically-damaged, ex-wife pining, mother-loving, uber Eagles fan protagonist of Matthew Quick's dazzling debut novel The Silver Linings Playbook. You might think that a book about a guy who has lost so much--his wife, his home, his job, and many years of his life in a mental health facility--would be depressing. Philadelphia is not only the home of the quintessentially American Liberty Bell, cheese steak, and Rocky, but now Philadelphia offers us another American original: Pat Peoples, the neurologically-damaged, ex-wife pining, mother-loving, uber Eagles fan protagonist of Matthew Quick's dazzling debut novel The Silver Linings Playbook. You might think that a book about a guy who has lost so much--his wife, his home, his job, and many years of his life in a mental health facility--would be depressing. Far from it. In fact, this book is uplifting. For what Quick offers us is not just the brutality of life--a father who won't talk to his son, a cheating wife, many violent tempers--but also the beauty of it--finding love in unexpected people. Basically, Quick shows us that no matter how far down you fall, there are people willing to help you pick yourself back up. Quick gives us hope. Does everything turn out the way Pat wanted it to? No. But it does turn out just as it should: with two broken souls coming together, hoping, and believing in the silver lining. In short: a gorgeous, poignant, funny and uplifting book. Read it. ...more I really enjoyed this book. The story is of a mentally deranged man who has spent four years in the mental ward of the hospital is learning how to conduct himself on the outside. He has a Wife he longs to see. He realizes that life does not always have a silver lining or a happy ending. It was very well written and I felt like I was right there with him for the book is placed here in Philedalphia. Enjoy and Be Blessed. Diamond Matthew Quick's The Silver Linings Playbook tells the story of narrator Pat Peoples's return to real life after four years in a \"neural health facility.\" Pat is determined to win back his wife, Nikki, after their \"apart time,\" which Pat, with somewhat pitiable naivete, takes to be a trial separation. But then Pat meets Tiffany, who offers, on one rather arduous condition, to act as a liaison between him and Nikki. Needless to say, things don't go quite as he planned. I will confess to being a bi Matthew Quick's The Silver Linings Playbook tells the story of narrator Pat Peoples's return to real life after four years in a \"neural health facility.\" Pat is determined to win back his wife, Nikki, after their \"apart time,\" which Pat, with somewhat pitiable naivete, takes to be a trial separation. But then Pat meets Tiffany, who offers, on one rather arduous condition, to act as a liaison between him and Nikki. Needless to say, things don't go quite as he planned. I will confess to being a bit dubious at the start of this very black comedy, as the tone seemed a bit uncertain and the plot is a bit predictable -- you'll be able to see where this one is going before you're halfway through (I don't think that's necessarily unintentional, however). The book also contains a touch of the surreal that doesn't quite feel as though it fits sometimes -- for example, the subplot with Pat's therapist is a off-kilter on a couple of levels, and I never did figure out whether Quick was clumsily trying a satirical twist. There's also a coincidental reunion near the end of the book that's a bit hard to swallow and comes precariously close to sticky sentimentality. But I fell in love with the book about halfway through, sort of the way you'd fall in love with the weirdest-looking puppy from a litter of adorable yellow Labs. Pat is one of the most appealing narrators in recent memory, and Quick is such a skillful storyteller that you'll be taken by surprise by how quickly you get caught up in the narrative. There are also several hilarious set pieces, particularly the Rocky-inspired training montage (yep, you read that right). The ending, while certainly not unexpected, is touching and hopeful, and Quick handles it with a light touch, avoiding the temptation to hand the reader a maudlin walk into the sunset. All in all, an impressive debut. ...more Blown away by how different the book is from the film. Loved the film and it will certainly win a few Oscars, but I hadn't imagined how marvelous David O. Russell's adaptation was, stirring and compelling, dramatically intense and laugh-out-loud funny, and ever so heartwarming, and full-on, a killer \"silver lining\" ending. Equally blown away by Quick's novel. I had peeked in after it arrived in the mail yesterday and I put it by the bed. Figured to dip in at night. Woke up this morning and blew t Blown away by how different the book is from the film. Loved the film and it will certainly win a few Oscars, but I hadn't imagined how marvelous David O. Russell's adaptation was, stirring and compelling, dramatically intense and laugh-out-loud funny, and ever so heartwarming, and full-on, a killer \"silver lining\" ending. Equally blown away by Quick's novel. I had peeked in after it arrived in the mail yesterday and I put it by the bed. Figured to dip in at night. Woke up this morning and blew through it, about six hours, couldn't put it down. It too was stirring in its own way. I was struck by the use of the word \"god.\" Russell's adaptation removed the word but kept the sentiment, expanded upon and amplified it, made the story more intense, more romantic, funnier and more engaging. I'm a filmgoer first, a reader second, and what was most striking was to expect the book to be similar to the film, and then to be surprised by how different they really were. It's like Quick gave us a detailed backstory and Russell gave us the inspired, distilled and altered final version. Seeing the film and reading the book offers a real glimpse at how novels and films are always different, each to be engaged, enjoyed and taken on their own terms. What a marvelous debut novel by Mr. Quick. I highly recommend both, the book and the film, and yes, you gotta stay positive, gotta work hard, and if you do, if you work at being \"kind not right,\" I expect you'll find that silver lining. \u2665 ...more OK, so the main character talks like an 5-year-old, but he's in his thirties. We learn early on that he is mentally ill, and I kept expecting to find out that he was brain damaged. But as far as I could tell, that's not the case (because of the poor writing, it's never fully clear). Which makes his little-boy lingo (\"the bad place\" and \"apart time\") extremely grating, to say the least. Fully-grown adult men who are depressed and have issues with rage do not talk like children. The more I think a OK, so the main character talks like an 5-year-old, but he's in his thirties. We learn early on that he is mentally ill, and I kept expecting to find out that he was brain damaged. But as far as I could tell, that's not the case (because of the poor writing, it's never fully clear). Which makes his little-boy lingo (\"the bad place\" and \"apart time\") extremely grating, to say the least. Fully-grown adult men who are depressed and have issues with rage do not talk like children. The more I think about this novel, the more it irritates me. We know Pat is mentally ill, but never really understand what his actual problem is. I kept waiting for the big reveal, but when it finally came, it really didn't clear up anything. Is he ill because his wife beaned him on the head with a CD player? Did she bean him on the head because he was mentally ill and violent? Bleh. And the writer uses letters from various characters to move the plot along and explain stuff he isn't talented enough to reveal otherwise. Plus ridiculous Kenny G references, ugh. The only thing I liked were the football scenes. He captured that camaraderie that goes with following a sport, as well as some of the excess. ...more Initial thoughts: 1. Loved Pat's narrative voice. He's observant and very straightforward, which made him very (unintentionally) funny. 2. Tiffany didn't have a big presence in the book which surprised me. She was quite the character though, and her story was engaging. 3. Surprisingly, loved the football element in the story. I related with this a lot, and found the characters that were connected/affected by it realistic. It was a really fun aspect of the book! 4. My favourite chapter was 'My Movie' Initial thoughts: 1. Loved Pat's narrative voice. He's observant and very straightforward, which made him very (unintentionally) funny. 2. Tiffany didn't have a big presence in the book which surprised me. She was quite the character though, and her story was engaging. 3. Surprisingly, loved the football element in the story. I related with this a lot, and found the characters that were connected/affected by it realistic. It was a really fun aspect of the book! 4. My favourite chapter was 'My Movie's Montage'. 'Nuff said. 5. Lot's of heart, honesty, and emotional high points in the story. Great, realistic characters as well. Check out my book and movie rvideo review here! ...more 3.5 stars This book is really really good. It's a bit hard to describe why I gave it three stars instead of five. Mostly, because I did not like to read about the Eagles. It's great at the beginning and somewhere in between where Tiffany and Pat practice for the dance but half the time it went on very slow. But I enjoyed it nonetheless :) Pat is finally out of the mental hospital and he's trying to be a better person for Nikki, his wife. He's re-adjusting himself to his old yet new life and meets 3.5 stars This book is really really good. It's a bit hard to describe why I gave it three stars instead of five. Mostly, because I did not like to read about the Eagles. It's great at the beginning and somewhere in between where Tiffany and Pat practice for the dance but half the time it went on very slow. But I enjoyed it nonetheless :) Pat is finally out of the mental hospital and he's trying to be a better person for Nikki, his wife. He's re-adjusting himself to his old yet new life and meets this girl named Tiffany. Pat and Tiffany met at a dinner party. Pat likes to run and Tiffany in scouting Pat. Pat likes her and she likes him too. But Pat loves Nikki and wants her back. And Tiffany loves to dance. So, they make a deal. Pat will dance with Tiffany if she sends his letters to Nikki. And the deal is sealed. And in the end, many truths are revealed. And we realize that Pat and Tiffany are just perfect for each other. \"Tiffany: You love me? Pat: Yeah. Tiffany : Okay.\" ...more", "Title": "The Silver Linings Playbook"},
