{"Comments": "Even if you know nothing (<---B>or practically nothing</---B>) else about World War I, you probably know that it started with the assassination of Austro-Hungarian heir Franz Ferdinand in the city of Sarajevo. At least,<---M> that's about as much as I knew</---M>, when I started my World War I crash course several years ago. Exactly why this happened - why the murder of an unloved Austrian archduke in a Bosnian city by a Serbian nationalist caused Germany to invade Belgium to get at France in order to defend themselves a Even if you know nothing (or practically nothing) else about World War I, you probably know that it started with the assassination of Austro-Hungarian heir Franz Ferdinand in the city of Sarajevo. At least, that's about as much as I knew, when I started my World War I crash course several years ago. Exactly why this happened - why the murder of an unloved Austrian archduke in a Bosnian city by a Serbian nationalist caused Germany to invade Belgium to get at France in order to defend themselves against Russia - is a far more complicated story. Franz Ferdinand's death precipitated the so-called July Crisis of 1914, a period of diplomatic maneuvering between Austria-Hungary, Serbia, Germany, Russia, France, and Great Britain that ultimately ended with the \"Guns of August\" and one of the bloodiest, most inexplicable wars in human history. There are a lot of books about the July Crisis, even more so during the centenary commemorations. But even the most detailed volumes I've read usually relegate the actual Sarajevo assassination on June 28, 1914, to a page or two. The assassin himself, a nineteen year-old Bosnian Serb named <---C>Gavrilo Princip</---C>, is usually treated as little better than a footnote. When I came across <---A>Tim Butcher</---A>'s <+++>The Trigger: Hunting the Assassin Who Brought the World to War</+++> , it caught my eye for precisely this reason. I wanted to read about the man who unwittingly struck the match that set the world aflame, the man who is usually given a couple sentences at the start of any World War I history, before receding into the dustbin. Butcher's account is not a standard biography. Rather, it is an entry into the genre I call Historical Road Trips, a hybrid literary form that combines elements of travelogue, memoir, and history. Well known authors who've contributed to this genre include Sarah Vowell ( Assassination Vacation ) and Tony Horowitz ( Confederates in the Attic ). I didn't know this when I purchased The Trigger , for the reason that Amazon's one-click shopping allows me to make impulse buys without undergoing any sort of decision-making process. When I found out, however, I wasn't bothered. I have a great affinity for Historical Road Trips, mainly because I've made so many myself. (Let me tell you about the time I dragged my wife and six-month old daughter to the Battle of Cowpens. In July! In a Subaru! We can all laugh now, about how a Park Ranger had to find me and inform me of a cataclysmic diaper blowout...<---F> But at the time</---F>...) Butcher's style will be quite familiar to anyone who's read Vowell or Horowitz. He sets out to follow Princip's path to political murder by literally following his path. He begins in the tiny town of Obljaj in present-day Bosnia and Herzegovina, where Princip was born. He meets with Princip's family, and engages in a lengthy conversation with them about their illustrious/infamous ancestor. Afterwards, he sets off on foot with his Bosnian friend Arnie to recreate Princip's overland journey to Sarajevo. Along the way Butcher dodges landmines from the Balkan Wars, talks to a couple fishermen, and eats wild mushrooms. Butcher writes in a journalistic style, which makes sense, since he was a journalist and war correspondent for The Daily Telegraph . His prose is engaging and detailed and The Trigger is an effortless read. The problem, for me, is that Butcher doesn't do a great job \"hunting the assassin.\" For long stretches of the book, Princip seems to disappear completely. This might be a function of reality. Princip is an elusive figure. He was unheralded and unknown before his historical moment, and he died in prison, forgotten in the hurricane of blood and destruction he'd set in motion. In other words, he didn't leave much of a paper trail. Butcher does the best he can. He clearly searches out every scrap of information about Princip, and extrapolates as much as he can from the surviving documentation. He pores, for instance, over extant school records that show a young Princip first succeeding in school in Sarajevo, and later letting his grades slip as he begins his involvement in the Young Bosnia movement. Despite this, there isn't enough Princip to fill a book, so Butcher resorts to telling - essentially - two parallel stories. The first is his pursuit of Princip; the second is Butcher's own experiences as a correspondent during the Balkan Wars of the 1990s. Frankly, I did not get a lot of mileage from the latter. I respect Butcher's work as a war correspondent, including the dangers he faced, but if I wanted to read all about his experiences I would have sought that out separately. It's just filler here, and borderline navel gazing. There are, obviously, echoes of the Serbian role in the Great War in the Balkan Wars nearly 80 years later. Serbian nationalism and ambition were at work in both. But Butcher never tied the two threads together for me in a meaningful way. Strangely, he espouses sympathy for Princip and his pro-Serbian beliefs in 1914, while disdaining the ruthlessness of the Serbs in the 1990s. (Butcher visits a massacre site from the Balkan Wars while trailing Princip's wispy spirit). I liked this book a fair amount, but am far from loving it. It falls far short of the other Historical Road Trip books I've read. Butcher checks all the boxes by visiting the sites, sifting through the archives, and interviewing people along the way. Unfortunately, none of it was made memorable. The Trigger is far too solemn, even given its subject matter. Sarah Vowell and Tony Horowitz also tackle grim subjects, but they do it with an eye for the absurd, the humorous, the enlightening. I didn't find that here. There is, for example, a set piece in which Butcher goes to Banja Luka to watch the band Franz Ferdinand play a concert. Butcher clearly recognized the delicious preposterousness of an English band named for a dead Austrian heir rocking out in a Bosnian town. Butcher goes to the show, talks to the band and...that's it. The set piece fizzles out into nothing. Look, I'm not here to tell you that World War I historiography needs to be funnier. That's not my line. In fact, I tried out a couple jokes, just to be sure. Sample: Knock-knock. Who's there? The Battle of the Somme. The Battle of the Somme who? A million dead soldiers. It doesn't work on any level. Still, a hundred years later, trying to illuminate the contours of a ghost, there is no need to be overly funereal. The Trigger really could have used an infusion of wit. (Especially given the fact that trying to recapture a person's life by actually visiting the landmarks of his life is a quixotic notion. At best it is an earnest attempt to capture something ineffable from the past; at worst it's just an excuse to write a book). Amidst the extraneous details and long digressions, The Trigger has things to teach you about Gavrilo Princip. I appreciated that, even if I could have learned them in a more straightforward manner. In the end, we don't have a lot of concrete information about the assassin. There are the memories of his family, the route of his travels, his grades from school, an interview with a psychiatrist while in prison. There is his photograph, with his eternally haunted eyes. All of this is of interest mainly to a serious World War I buff. For others, it is enough to know that on June 28, 1914 he fired two shots at a moving car, killed two people, and ended up dying of tuberculosis in prison while the rest of the world tore itself to pieces. ...more Franz Ferdinand (no not the rock band) was the Archduke of the Austro-Hungarians, next in line for the throne, when he was assassinated in July of 1914 in Sarajevo. Gavrilo Princip was the 19yo Bosnian Serb who murdered him. In his view the best way to bring solidarity amongst all Southern Slavs, they being Bosnian Serbs, Bosnian Croats and Bosnian Muslims. The assassination of Ferdinand was the trigger that got the dominoes falling. The Austro-Hungarians used the assassination to declare war on S Franz Ferdinand (no not the rock band) was the Archduke of the Austro-Hungarians, next in line for the throne, when he was assassinated in July of 1914 in Sarajevo. Gavrilo Princip was the 19yo Bosnian Serb who murdered him. In his view the best way to bring solidarity amongst all Southern Slavs, they being Bosnian Serbs, Bosnian Croats and Bosnian Muslims. The assassination of Ferdinand was the trigger that got the dominoes falling. The Austro-Hungarians used the assassination to declare war on Serbia, the Russians moved to help the Serbians. Germany took it's chance to invade France causing the British to declare war on the Germans. A mere two months after Princip pulled the trigger the world awakened to the declaration of World War 1. The author, Tim Butcher, is a British Journalist who can view the story from a rather unique view. Most of us are aware of the blood thirsty atrocities that occurred during the Bosnian war of the early to mid 1990's. This was a three sided war at times with all three Bosnian factions fighting each other but when it was over the real truth came out. Mass graves of thousands of civilians were uncovered making the slaughters in this war second only in comparison to the ethnic cleansing undertaken by the Germans in WW2. Tim Butcher covered this war as a journalist from the war zones. He stayed with UN peacekeepers, spoke to civilians and soldiers and saw first hand the demolition and carnage. The Trigger is Tim's uncovering of the truths that led to Princip's assassination of Ferdinand. He walks for days the trails that were covered by a 13yo boy as he leaves his family home to seek education in a better schooling system. Discovers the influences on Princip's young life and continues to follow the route that led him to be standing on a street corner in July 1914 with a pistol in his hand. The Bosnian history is laid bare in this book. It's battles with Austro-Hungary to become its own country, its fights against the Ottomans, the formation and then collapse of Yugoslavia, the communist rule of Tito, the in fighting and wars between the Serbs, Croats and Muslims. What Butcher does so well is tell two separate stories at once - two different times, 80 years apart. While following in Princip's footsteps he discusses the Europe and Bosnia as known in the early 20th century. All of the relevant details that led to the first world war. Yet he also draws on his first hand accounts of the Bosnian war of the 1990's, describing in detail the devastation to man and country. The racism and the affiliations that led to the atrocities and the first ever time that the UN were forced to lead military strikes. The failures of command and one of the most amazing escapes you will ever read about when 13,000 people fled under the cover of darkness from the city of Srebrenica as the Serbian forces cut off the town and then advanced. Princip was arrested as he shot and killed the Archduke and he was never a free man again, dying from tuberculosis in prison. Tim Butcher's book leaves one big question. Has anything changed from the days when a young man took such desperate measures to bring solidarity to his people? Gavrilo Princip, the man who was the TRIGGER of the first world war. ...more Subtitled, \u201cThe Hunt for Gavrilo Princip; The Assassin who Brought the World to War,\u201d this is part biography, part history and part travel book. Indeed, it is written by Tim Butcher, who is probably best known for his travel writing and whose interest in Gavrilo Princip was first aroused when he was a young reporter in Serajevo during the Bosnian War in the 1990\u2019s. He recalls how he witnessed locals using a stone building as a makeshift lavatory, only to discover they were desecrating a memorial Subtitled, \u201cThe Hunt for Gavrilo Princip; The Assassin who Brought the World to War,\u201d this is part biography, part history and part travel book. Indeed, it is written by Tim Butcher, who is probably best known for his travel writing and whose interest in Gavrilo Princip was first aroused when he was a young reporter in Serajevo during the Bosnian War in the 1990\u2019s. He recalls how he witnessed locals using a stone building as a makeshift lavatory, only to discover they were desecrating a memorial to Princip\u2019s assassination of the Archduke Franz Ferdinand. Why, he wondered, were the people of Serajevo so dismissive of a man who fought for their freedom? Many years later, the author decided to follow the trail from Princip\u2019s home in a countryside now still dangerous from mines left over from the war, to the end of his life. During this book the author asks why WWI is still so important and looks at the impact on Princip\u2019s actions on the history of the Bosnians, Serbs and Croats in the region. He questions whether the assassination was the spark that ignited the conflict and, on his journey, looks at the complicated history of the region as well as that of Princip\u2019s himself. This is a very interesting read; for many different reasons. I was fascinated by the story of Gavrilo Princip, which was at the heart of this book. A young boy \u2013 still a teenager \u2013 who left a countryside where life still followed an almost medieval pattern. A boy who had academic ambitions; who travelled to the city to study and who dropped out in 1911. In fact, three of the dropouts that year would become revolutionaries; the education system a breeding ground for radicalism. The story of this young man is still relevant today. This teenager who fought for the cause of ridding his country of Austo-Hungarian rule and who fired the trigger which assassinated both the Archduke and his wife. The formative years of his young man\u2019s education has significance, as the author highlights that Princip had, \u201cthe rage of the oppressed,\u201d which is sadly still all too relevant in our world. Princip considered his attack on the Archduke a grand gesture \u2013 a \u201cnoble act.\u201d I was struck by the fact I had read this story from a completely different viewpoint in, \u201cThe Assassination of the Archduke,\u201d by Greg King The Assassination of the Archduke: Sarajevo 1914 and the Romance that Changed the World . As such, it was really interesting to see the story from the side of the assassin himself and I recommend this book for anybody interested in both WWI and in the history of a country which has seen so much conflict and yet retains such diverse sense of identities. A very moving book in parts, which follows the story of the author and the people he met in the 1990\u2019s as well as events so long ago, At times I found the meandering pace of the book a little slow, but generally, this was a very interesting read. ...more A concise, compelling, accessible book that is part history, part travelogue, part memoir and wholly unmissable A fascinating investigation into the life and times of Gavrilo Princip, the Serbian student who assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo in 1914, and which was the catalyst for World War One. This concise, accessible, compelling book is part history, part travelogue, and part memoir, which explains the history of the Balkans and why, despite his momentous action, Princip is now A concise, compelling, accessible book that is part history, part travelogue, part memoir and wholly unmissable A fascinating investigation into the life and times of Gavrilo Princip, the Serbian student who assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo in 1914, and which was the catalyst for World War One. This concise, accessible, compelling book is part history, part travelogue, and part memoir, which explains the history of the Balkans and why, despite his momentous action, Princip is now all but airbrushed out of the history of the region. Tim Butcher also weaves in some of his own memories as a young reporter sent by the Daily Telegraph to cover the Bosnian War, during which he chanced upon Princip\u2019s tomb being used as a toilet. Not only did I come away from this book with an understanding of the complex recent history of the region, but also how the role of certain players can be celebrated or ignored according to the prevailing narrative in which the history is written. Princip\u2019s primary motivation was to rid his land of the occupying Habsburgs who, like the Turks before them, presided over an almost feudal system that perpetuated the grinding poverty of his own family and which was shared by most from the three major communities in Bosnia: the Orthodox Serbs, the mainly Catholic Croats and the Muslim Bosniaks. To better understand how Princip came to assassinate Franz Ferdinand, Tim Butcher makes the same journey Princip made, a walk from vukojebina, Princip's desolate rural home, to Sarajevo, negotiating minefields left over the Bosnian War of the 1990s. If you're interested in World War One, twentieth century European history, travel writing, or finding out about the area previously known as Yugoslavia, then I feel sure you\u2019ll find lots to enjoy and appreciate in \" <+++>The Trigger: Hunting the Assassin Who Brought the World to War</+++> \u201d. It\u2019s taut, well written, very atmospheric, engaging, provocative and, as I said at the outset, fascinating. One of the most extraordinary facts I discovered was the numberplate of Archduke Ferdinand\u2019s car was A111118. A numberplate that had no resonance at the time of the assassination but which also happens to be the date of Armistice Day - the moment when, after four bloody years, World War One ended - or the eleventh day of the eleventh month in 1918. In the last year or so I\u2019ve read 12 books about World War One and can confidently state that this one is up there with the very best. 5/5 ...more Scintillating biography of the man who changed the world. By firing that bullet into the jugular of the Habsburg heir on that sunny morning in Sarajevo in June 1914, Gavrilo Princip not only killed off the old world, he also unwittingly helped to usher in the modern age - the toxic 20th century with its legacy of revolution, fascism, genocide and totalitarian terror. Tim Butcher is the perfect medium for the telling of this extraordinary tale. Having spent years in the bloody cauldron of the Bos Scintillating biography of the man who changed the world. By firing that bullet into the jugular of the Habsburg heir on that sunny morning in Sarajevo in June 1914, Gavrilo Princip not only killed off the old world, he also unwittingly helped to usher in the modern age - the toxic 20th century with its legacy of revolution, fascism, genocide and totalitarian terror. Tim Butcher is the perfect medium for the telling of this extraordinary tale. Having spent years in the bloody cauldron of the Bosnian war, he was first drawn into the story by witnessing a scene in war-torn Sarajevo. Ordinary people walking into a cemetery chapel to take a shit. Turns out it was Princip's grave. From there, Butcher launches into a beautiful, expansive meditation on the meaning of the First World War, which in turn serves as the launchpad for a real-life journey he undertakes in the summer of 2012 retracing Princip's steps - from the village of Obljaj, the assassin's birthplace in the wild mountains of Herzegovina, all the way to that fateful street corner along the Miljacka river in the centre of modern Sarajevo. Throughout, he interweaves Princip's personal history with the wider history of the Balkans, with his own memories of the Bosnian war, and with the account of his pilgrimage across the region nearly 20 years later. Bosnia today is a country still wracked by the after-spasms of genocide and civil war, just as the world that Princip threw out of kilter never really recovered its equilibrium either. The most powerful passage of all is Butcher's account of the fall of Srebrenica and the infamous massacre of 8000 Bosnian Muslims, all under the noses of hapless UN peacekeepers. He joins thousands of Bosnians on the annual Peace March that commemorates and reenacts in reverse the death march of Srebrenicans who made a desperate dash for safety in July 1995 but all too often ended up signing their own death warrants. This chapter \"A Mystical Journey\" is doubtless the book's emotional high point, but so clean and powerful and polished is Butcher's prose that the entire book reads like a dream. For anyone even remotely interested in the history of the modern world, this book is essential reading. It is amazing to think that so neglected, so distorted is the true story of Gavrilo Princip - his name as much a cipher as that of his victim the Archduke Franz Ferdinand - that even after a hundred years, Butcher is able to unearth original material on him from archives long forgotten, unknown to all previous chroniclers. For me, personally, WW1 has long held a magnetic fascination, and Sarajevo is one of those mythical cities - like Atlantis and Timbuktu - whose very name is a spell, an invocation, more vivid in the imagination than it is perhaps in reality. On the eve of my first visit to the Balkans - inspired by people as varied as Princip and the Archduke, Christiane Amanpour and Rebecca West and even the ski pair of Torvill and Dean! - on the eve of this glorious, much-awaited, much-anticipated journey to the magic, tragic city of Sarajevo, I could not have chosen to read a better book. ...more An excellent multi layered history/travelogue/personal story tracing the journey of Gavrilo Princip from remote Bosnian village to initiator of World War 1. Tim Butcher brings alive the story of Gavrilo Princip by physically following the young Bosnian Serb's journey from his remote village to the streets of Sarajevo. The author paints a fascinating story as he visits the remote hamlet where Princip grew up to discover still living descendants, takes on epic treks through the now land mine infest An excellent multi layered history/travelogue/personal story tracing the journey of Gavrilo Princip from remote Bosnian village to initiator of World War 1. Tim Butcher brings alive the story of Gavrilo Princip by physically following the young Bosnian Serb's journey from his remote village to the streets of Sarajevo. The author paints a fascinating story as he visits the remote hamlet where Princip grew up to discover still living descendants, takes on epic treks through the now land mine infested mountains that Princip knew, as well as discovering new insights into this infamous young man. Whilst combining travelogue with history not necessarily a novel approach Butcher brings a wholly personal aspect as he intertwines Princip\u2019s history with the Balkan Wars of the 1990s. The author was a journalist present in the region during those wars and some of his personal experiences make uncomfortable reading but necessary reading. I\u2019d highly recommend this for anyone interested to the start of World War 1, 20th Century European history or anyone who enjoys stories of travel to the lesser known parts of Europe. ...more Gavrillo Princip shot Archduke Franz Ferdinand on 28 June 1914 and in doing so triggered the First World War. That much I and most of the rest of us know. What drove Princip to pull the trigger; there I'm a little hazier, what happened to him next and did he achieve his ultimate goal; there I knew nothing. Tim Butcher draws on his experience as a journalist covering the Yugoslavian wars of the 1990's to join the dots between the motivations of Princip at the start of the 20th century and those o Gavrillo Princip shot Archduke Franz Ferdinand on 28 June 1914 and in doing so triggered the First World War. That much I and most of the rest of us know. What drove Princip to pull the trigger; there I'm a little hazier, what happened to him next and did he achieve his ultimate goal; there I knew nothing. Tim Butcher draws on his experience as a journalist covering the Yugoslavian wars of the 1990's to join the dots between the motivations of Princip at the start of the 20th century and those of is compatriots at end of it. Butcher sets of to follow the route that Princip took from leaving his remote mountain home to the streets of Sarajevo and the assassination. Bizarrely and a little conveniently he runs into the remains of the Princip family right at the start of his quest. Much of the narrative is taken up with his reminisces of the wars of the 1990's and the horrific acts of barbarism that took place then. Before reading The Trigger I knew enough about the origins of the First World War and about the Yugoslav wars to bluff my way through but now I feel that my understanding of both conflicts is deeper and that I could hold my own with confidence. ...more I wasn\u2019t especially interested in the subject of this book, Gavrilo Princip, to begin with; I read it because I had been impressed by one of Tim Butcher\u2019s earlier books, Blood River , an exciting and well-written account of a long and dangerous journey through Central Africa. Like Blood River , The Trigger is a mixture of history, travelogue and journalism \u2013 a format Butcher does very well. It is just as good as Blood River , and I ended up being very interested in Princip indeed. The outline of the I wasn\u2019t especially interested in the subject of this book, Gavrilo Princip, to begin with; I read it because I had been impressed by one of Tim Butcher\u2019s earlier books, Blood River , an exciting and well-written account of a long and dangerous journey through Central Africa. Like Blood River , The Trigger is a mixture of history, travelogue and journalism \u2013 a format Butcher does very well. It is just as good as Blood River , and I ended up being very interested in Princip indeed. The outline of the book is thus: In the early 1990s Butcher is a young correspondent in the Balkans, covering the conflict for Britain\u2019s Telegraph newspaper. In Sarajevo he finds people using a small building as a toilet, and is bemused to find that it is the mausoleum of Princip, whose assassination of the Archduke Franz Ferdinand in the city led to the First World War. Butcher moves on but does not forget this odd sight, and in 2012 he resolves to walk across Bosnia and Serbia in Princip\u2019s footsteps. Butcher wants to see if the journey would illuminate the chain of events that had led not only to that war but to the one he covered 80 years later. In 1907 the 13-year-old Princip walked most of the way from his home in Western Bosnia to Sarajevo to get an education. Later, as a radicalised, political young adult, he went to Serbia and there hatched the plot to kill the Archduke; then, armed, he walked back. It is these journeys Butcher wants to recreate. He starts by enlisting Arnie, his former fixer from Bosnia, as a companion. Arnie, a Bosnian Muslim, is now living in London but, after some thought, he agrees. Meanwhile Butcher tries to track down Princip\u2019s birthplace, Obljaj. This is hard, as it is an obscure hamlet deep in what Bosnians call the vukojebina (literally, \u201cwhere the wolves fuck\u201d). He eventually finds it on an old map in the bowels of the Royal Geographical Society. He and Arnie make for Obljaj. It\u2019s when they get there that this narrative, a little slow to start, really takes off. The Princip home is a ruin but, quite unexpectedly, they find the Princip clan still living next door. No-one can remember Gavrilo, who died in 1918. But at least one man remembers his parents in their old age, and the folk-memories of Princip are strong. The next day Butcher and Arnie start a long walk to Sarajevo. The memories of the Princips, and Butcher\u2019s own diligent research in Sarajevo, uncover a great deal new about the assassin. His killing of the Archduke is part of history but the man himself, locked up at 19, dead at 23, has always been a footnote. Butcher brings him very alive. He also conjures up a vivid picture of Sarajevo as Princip would have found it in 1907, and it reminds me very much of Aleppo, where I lived for several years in the 1990s. Moreover Butcher finds that Princip\u2019s story does provide keys to the region\u2019s history, and to the conflict of the 1990s. One or two themes emerge strongly from the book. In Butcher\u2019s view, Austria-Hungary, which had only occupied Bosnia in 1878, was a colonial power there, extracting resources \u2013 chiefly timber \u2013 and giving a little back, but not much. Princip\u2019s fanaticism was rooted in a hatred of what he saw as an oppressive colonial regime that had kept his people miserably poor. (He was himself the seventh of nine children; the previous six had all died in infancy.) Moreover the people Princip saw as his were all the South Slavs, not just Serbs. He was not a Serbian nationalist as such (and in Butcher\u2019s view, Serbia did not support the assassination). Princip was an anti-colonial freedom fighter. But perhaps the most interesting perspective in this book is Arnie\u2019s. At the time people outside Yugoslavia blamed the 1990s war on ancient primitive hatreds, rather as they spoke of Northern Ireland when I was growing up, and see Syria now. Arnie doesn\u2019t buy it. \u201cThose people who said, \u2018These people have always hated each other\u2019 were just being lazy,\u201d he tells Butcher. \u201cIn my own life I saw people from different communities work together, live together, get married even. There was nothing inevitable about what happened in the 1990s. It was just that a few \u2013 the extremists, the elite, the greedy \u2013 saw nationalism as a way to grab what they wanted.\u201d Like Blood River , this is a thoughtful, well-written book, an absorbing read but also full of insights. Butcher\u2019s knack of combining several roles \u2013 the historian, the travel writer and the journalist \u2013 serves him well. I look forward to seeing where he does it next. Meanwhile The Trigger is excellent, and could well be my non-fiction read of the year. ...more The author draws on his experience in covering the Bosnian war in the 1990's to add perspective to the story of Gavrilo Princip, the assassin who tripped the switch that started World War I. The journey begins in Obljaj, which is a Bosnian settlement (hardly a town) where the Princip clan lives today as it did when its wayward teenager changed the course of history. The author, Tim Butcher, is welcomed by this very poor rural family who share their handed down reminiscences. Then, Butcher follows The author draws on his experience in covering the Bosnian war in the 1990's to add perspective to the story of Gavrilo Princip, the assassin who tripped the switch that started World War I. The journey begins in Obljaj, which is a Bosnian settlement (hardly a town) where the Princip clan lives today as it did when its wayward teenager changed the course of history. The author, Tim Butcher, is welcomed by this very poor rural family who share their handed down reminiscences. Then, Butcher follows Princip's footsteps (literally), walking and training to Sarajevo as Princip did with his father in 1907 to attend school. There is a lot on the people, the landscape, land mines, road conditions and more. In Sarajevo the author explores the schools, residences and caf\u00e9's of Princip's life, finding very little interest in him, and sometimes avoidance of him even as an historical figure. The author visits archives, digests school records, court proceedings, and psychiatrist reports. There is much here about the Bosnian War and the ambiance of places in and around the city. From Sarajevo, Princip went to Belgrade, so Butcher does too. Again he is on foot. He participates in and describes the Mars Mira an annual Peace March commemorating the Srebrenica atrocities. Butcher gives the best explanation that I have read on how this city became a safe zone and then a massacre site. To this point, the Princip saga is woven into larger issues such how the Hapsburgs administered Bosnia, the way Tito came to power and how communism is viewed today, how World War I eventually begat the Bosnian war, the beauty of the landscape, the danger of land mines and more. Once Butcher arrives in Belgrade, the story is focused on Princip, his plot, his accomplices, how it went down, how the \"team\" was captured, their trial and aftermath for them. While not a page turner, the book is highly readable. The maps are good and show all the key places. There are good photos introducing each chapter, but there are photos described in the text but not shown. The Index worked each time I consulted it. The book is light on sources, reflecting how much it draws from the author's experiences and observations. I was initially disappointed because I was expecting a biography. Now that I have finished it, with the last part devoted to the subject (and seeing very little in him) I realize that Tim Butcher delivered much more. ...more Tim Butcher never fails to impress me for his sheer determination in presenting well known facts in a totally fresh perspective. Sitting here in Trieste - quoted in the book as being one of the two ends of the Iron curtain - I followed his footsteps along his journey across Bosnia and Serbia as though I was actually there with him, his travelogue being all the more relevant to me as it describes regions just a few hundred kilometres from here. Princip's life, his political evolution and his moti Tim Butcher never fails to impress me for his sheer determination in presenting well known facts in a totally fresh perspective. Sitting here in Trieste - quoted in the book as being one of the two ends of the Iron curtain - I followed his footsteps along his journey across Bosnia and Serbia as though I was actually there with him, his travelogue being all the more relevant to me as it describes regions just a few hundred kilometres from here. Princip's life, his political evolution and his motives are clearly mapped in this book as never before. The author's presentation of the trigger that set off the First World War is interwoven with memories and flashbacks of his own personal journey in the region, from his journalistic coverage of the 90's war, to 2012 when he goes back to the same haunts, reliving the facts of the recent war in Yugoslavia. This makes the book even more relevant to my generation, who in the 90's was on the 'safer' borders of this bloody conflict. And his guilt at not being able to do more than being an observer resonates with my generation, that at 20, was clubbing and drinking itself unconscious whilst people across the border were being tortured and killed meaninglessly. This work deepened my understanding and knowledge of both the 90s war and the First World War showing continuity and circularity of human thought and actions in the Balkans. Butcher's prose is crystal clear and flows with a passion for his subject that pervades all his actions and descriptions. I was particularly impressed by the new documentation he found on Princip and by the use of photographs across his work that complement his writing and make Princip's life so alive and compelling even after 100 years. Last but by no means least I appreciated the author's careful considerations on the concept of nationalism and what its political consequences mean at a time when borders across Europe are being challenged. A five-star piece of writing. ...more For the past few years numerous books have been published dealing with aspects of the First World War. The plethora of books is due to the 100th anniversary of the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, the heir to the throne of the Austro-Hungarian Empire that touched off events that resulted in the \u201cwar to end all wars.\u201d Tim Butcher\u2019s THE TRIGGER is part of slew of new publications, but it is not a traditional discussion of the causes of the war and who was most responsible for the debacle For the past few years numerous books have been published dealing with aspects of the First World War. The plethora of books is due to the 100th anniversary of the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, the heir to the throne of the Austro-Hungarian Empire that touched off events that resulted in the \u201cwar to end all wars.\u201d Tim Butcher\u2019s THE TRIGGER is part of slew of new publications, but it is not a traditional discussion of the causes of the war and who was most responsible for the debacle that followed. Butcher\u2019s book is hard to categorize. It is part travelogue through the battlefields of the Yugoslavian Civil War that dominated the 1990s in the Balkans. It is also a book that tries to explain how the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand by a Serbian nationalist named Gavrilo Princip resulted in the death of millions of people between 1914 and 1918 might be related to the slaughter that took place in Bosnia between 1992-1996. The subtitle of the book, \u201cHunting the Assassin Who Brought the World to War,\u201d hints at what the author was trying to achieve. By presenting a pseudo biography of Princip and following his route from his village in Serbia to Sarajevo the author uncovers new information that previous biographers and historians of World War I failed to uncover. The reader is placed in a position to understand the events that led to the assassination, and by walking Princip\u2019s route we get an insight as to how the events of 1914 still affected the Balkan region through the 1990s when Butcher was a journalist in the region. As the author follows in Princip\u2019s footsteps he relives the tragic events of the 1990s he witnessed, and in writing THE TRIGGER, Butcher provides a rare glimpse into mind set of Princip as well as Serbian nationalists who conducted the genocide that was Srebrenica in 1995. The first of two strands in the narrative are Butcher\u2019s journey that culminates with the Bosnian Serb massacre at Srebrenica that finally brought in NATO forces leading to peace talks resulting in the Dayton Accords. The second strand sees Butcher describe Princip\u2019s assassination of Franz Ferdinand on June 28, 1914, the hunt for co-conspirators, the trial that followed, and the death of Princip in 1918. What make Butcher\u2019s work so fascinating are the important insights he brings to the table. The author was a foreign correspondent who covered the war from 1994 onward and sees his role in part to remind people how the events of World War I are still responsible for much of today\u2019s world conflict. Butcher points out that most histories of the war cover the same ground, and he decided by returning to Bosnia he could follow Princip\u2019s path, \u201ctrekking where he trekked, from village to village\u2026..explore the Balkan towns and cities where he studied, worked and traveled, and\u2026.piece together as far as possible the setting and detail of the assassination, his influences and motivations.\u201d (20) To a large degree Butcher is able to meet his own criteria in creating an interesting narrative that should keep the reader fully absorbed from first page to last. Butcher\u2019s journey led him through the forbidden mountainous areas that were home to bears, wolves, and a significant number of unexploded mines from the Yugoslav Civil War. Butcher was familiar with the areas he traveled because of his journalistic work in the 1990s and he marched onward with the assistance of his guide Arne Hecimovic, a man who spent his teenage years translating for reporters during the civil war. The journey began in the small Serbian village of Obljaj where Princip was born and preceded across Serbia into Bosnia, a return to Belgrade and a later march to Sarajevo. As Butcher describes the journey he integrates the relevant history that affected the region. The author goes back into Ottoman history and describes their rule in the Balkans, as the Ottoman Empire becomes \u201cthe sick man of Europe\u201d in the 19th century, Butcher continues by addressing the significance of the 1878 Treaty of Berlin that created Serbia and which many historians argue put Europe on the road to war. Butcher describes the decade that preceded World War I highlighting the dynastic issues relating to the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, the annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1908 by the Habsburgs, the Balkan Wars of 1912 and 1913 all in the context of the development of Princip\u2019s sense of growing nationalism. We see how nationalism became a disease in the 20th century and the damage it caused. Once Yugoslavia is created after the Treaty of Versailles it is obvious the only way to keep the new nation together is with an iron fist. We witness the fracturing of Yugoslavia as it is ripped apart by the Nazis who play divide and conquer splitting the catholic Croat population from the eastern orthodox Serbs, and Muslims who are remnants of Ottoman rule. Following the war Jozip Broz Tito and his communist partisans who had liberated his country from the Nazis assumes power and applies a high degree of force to keep his nation together until his death in 1980. From that point on it seems inevitable that the ethnic rivalries and hatreds that were subsumed for years overwhelms any sense of Yugoslav unity and in 1991 the road to civil war and the violence that tore apart the Balkans is under way. What I found most interesting about the book was Butcher\u2019s discussion of Princip\u2019s belief system. Historians have painted him as a Serbian nationalist who operated under the nationalist group, the Black Hand. After significant research Butcher comes to the conclusion that Princip was a \u201cnot predominately committed to Serb nationalism. His greater goal was freeing all Slavs, not just ethnic Slavs like himself,\u201d his belief system centered around the greater Yugoslav ideal of defeating Austro-Hungarian colonialism, not just from Bosnia, but also \u201cfrom areas to the north where other south Slavs \u2013 Croats and the Slovenes \u2013 were under the same occupation.\u201d (247-8) Princip belonged to Mlada Bosna, a group that was not typical of nationalist movements in the Balkans in that they were \u201cmore romantic, inclusive\u201d and believed in a political model that was far different from the \u201cindividual nationalist models of Serbs or the Croats.\u201d (250) Princip saw the poverty and that the basic feudal system remained under the Habsburg Empire and he wanted to free the southern Slavs from their control. As Butcher\u2019s travels take him through the route employed by Princip he revisits the civil war he covered. He constantly comes across unmarked graves, underground bunkers, earthworks, and the destruction that was endemic to the fighting. Butcher explains the shifting alliances that existed in the 1990s; Bosnian Serbs against Bosnian Croats allied with Bosnian Muslims. Then the Croats and Moslems allow their historical hatred to reemerge and the Serbs watch the former allies tear each other apart. Some of the earliest examples of ethnic cleansing take place between the Croats and Muslims in 1993. Interestingly, by the spring of 1994, after pressure from the international community they renew their alliance and concentrate their venom against the Serbs. Throughout his journey Butcher interviewed people and their families from all sides of the conflict, in Obljaj, the Milne\u2019s family provided the Serb viewpoint; in Glamoc, the Zdravko family story recounts the experiences of the Croats; and two Imans, Kemal Tokmic and Muzafer Latic present the Muslim view as they fish with Butcher in the mountains near Bugojono. In all the reader is exposed to the grievances and history of each side. One of Butcher\u2019s goals is to relate how the events of 1914 affected the 1990s civil war and beyond. The description of Bosnian Serb ethnic cleansing in Banja Luka is informative and maddening as western politicians stood by one of the worst atrocities of the Bosnian War. The ethnic cleansing, death camps, genocide that were perpetuated against the Bosnian Muslims throughout the fighting \u201cinadvertently provided Islamic militants with a rallying cry used to justify later acts of terrorism.\u201d (143) The nationalism that was responsible for June 28, 1914 reemerged with a vengeance during World War II, and exploded in the 1990s when the \u201chard fist\u201d of Tito\u2019s reign was gone. As an aside I wonder how many remnants of Islamic fighters remain who may still be involved in Iraq and Syria as of this writing. The last quarter of the book is devoted to a detailed description of Princip and his co-conspirators planning and carrying out the assassination of the Archduke. What is interesting is Butcher\u2019s reconstruction of some of Princip\u2019s pre-trial interrogation, trial transcripts, and psychiatric evaluation to determine his modus Vivendi. It comes down to his hatred of the Habsburg monarchy, his detestation of the poverty he and his fellow Slavs were forced to live in, and his own self-perception of weakness. Another fascinating aspect of the book is Butcher\u2019s recreation of the commemorative march, called the \u201cMars Mira or Peace March.\u201d After the Bosnian Serb siege of Sarajevo was near an end in 1995, thousands of Bosnian Muslims were forced to make an escape from the city to avoid extermination by the Serbs. In addition to the genocide at Srebrenica, Serbs also overran Sarajevo and targeted Muslim males for extinction. The only means of escape was a 50 mile march from the city through a path protected by forest. Butcher interviewed Dzile Omerovic, a Bosnian Muslim survivor of the march who said, \u201cIt was like being trapped in hell, I know no other word for it.\u201d Omerovic suffers from PTSD, as he continued to repeat how he should have done more to save others. While Butcher took part in the \u201cMars Mira\u201d in 2012, he came across numerous mass graves and workers who continue to try to match the unearthed corpses, body parts, and bones to make to identify victims in order for families to finally come to closure. For Butcher in 2012 he realized he was \u201cdancing on graves.\u201d (223) Thinking back to 1996 Butcher presents a passage that reminded me of the Cambodian \u201ckilling fields\u201d of the 1970s as he found himself stepping out of his jeep a year after the fall of Srebrenica to find himself in a field where \u201call around lay skulls, vertebrae, femurs, rotting scrapes of clothes, footwear and a few personal possessions. So thick lay the bones on the ground that when I returned to the jeep, I remember the back wheels lurching over a ribcage, but from nowhere a man appeared carrying a shotgun and told me to leave. I still feel guilty for panicking that day, for fleeing the crime scene, relying on the presumption that it would one day be found by war-crimes investigators and the human remains properly identified.\u201d (230) The book is an informative read and a testament to the author\u2019s commitment to seek out historical truths. It is loaded with personal vignettes that are striking in their authenticity and emotion. If you are interested in placing World War I in proper perspective as it relates to the last 100 years, THE TRIGGER should be of much interest. For a list of recent books on World War I consult the list below that should be reviewed at www.docs-books.com in the future. THE LOST HISTORY OF 1914: RECONSIDERING THE YEAR THE GREAT WAR BEGAN by Jack Beatty GEORGE, NICHOLAS, AND WILHELM: THREE ROYAL COUSINS AND THE ROAD TO WORLD WAR I by Miranda Carter THE SLEEPWALKERS: HOW EUROPE WENT TO WAR IN 1914 by Christopher Clark THE BEAUTY AND THE SORROW: AN INTIMATE HISTORY OF THE FIRST WORLD WAR by Peter England CATASTROPE 1914: EUROPE GOES TO WAR by Max Hastings THE WAR THAT ENDED PEACE: THE ROAD TO 1914 by Margaret MacMillan JULY 1914: COUNTDOWN TO WAR by Sean McMeekin DANCE OF THE FURIES: EUROPE AND THE OUTBREAK OF WORLD WAR I by Michael S. Nieberg A MAD CATASTROPHE: THE OUTBREAK OF WORLD WAR ONE AND THE COLLAPSE OF THE HABSBURG EMPIRE by Geoffrey Wawro One of the best books on Princip and the outbreak of war is the classic, ROAD TO SARAJEVO by Vladimir Dedijer published in 1966. ...more A fascinating read that both fed my appetite for information about WWI and whetted it for information about two countries I knew almost nothing about and the impact they've had on recent history. I was a little thrown at first by the personal nature of what I had initially pegged to be a straight biography of Gavrilo Princip, but once it got going, I was hooked. Part travelogue, part war history, and part biography of both the author and the subject, it's like no history book I've read before. T A fascinating read that both fed my appetite for information about WWI and whetted it for information about two countries I knew almost nothing about and the impact they've had on recent history. I was a little thrown at first by the personal nature of what I had initially pegged to be a straight biography of Gavrilo Princip, but once it got going, I was hooked. Part travelogue, part war history, and part biography of both the author and the subject, it's like no history book I've read before. The author's style is crisp but engaging. He teaches without lecturing, he philosophizes without sentimentalizing. By the end, I desperately wished I could have gone on this hike with him, but I was glad for the book that represents the next best thing. I'd recommend it to everyone who likes a good, intelligent history without being too formal about it. Think Anthony Bourdain's No Reservations, but less centered on food and a host less likely to offend or annoy. ...more Lee Harvey Oswald, John Wilkes Booth, James Earl Ray, Nathuram Godse (God bless you Google for that last one !) all assassinated great leaders in their prime - JFK, Lincoln, Martin Luther King, Gandhi - leaders who could have gone on to even greater achievements had they lived, and whose premature deaths still pose some of the great \" what if's\" of history. Archduke Franz Ferdinand, heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, was no such comparable leader when he and his wife Sophie were murdered by Lee Harvey Oswald, John Wilkes Booth, James Earl Ray, Nathuram Godse (God bless you Google for that last one !) all assassinated great leaders in their prime - JFK, Lincoln, Martin Luther King, Gandhi - leaders who could have gone on to even greater achievements had they lived, and whose premature deaths still pose some of the great \" what if's\" of history. Archduke Franz Ferdinand, heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, was no such comparable leader when he and his wife Sophie were murdered by Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo on 28th June 1914, yet his assassination was the trigger point for perhaps the greatest calamity in World history. Gavrilo Princip, his assassin, is, as author Tim Butcher puts it, probably History's most influential assassin. In this timely groundbreaking new study on Princip, his life and his times, Tim uses the \"follow in the footsteps \" formula so deftly employed in his previous 2 books set in Africa, Blood River and Chasing the Devil, to understand the motivations and actions of Princip. This is part travel writing, part history lesson, part reflection on more recent events in the Balkans and the present state of affairs. But Tim adds another ingredient which is what makes his writing so special - his journalistic instinct for succinct observation and description, and his ability to absorb the reader with engaging anecdotes and startling facts. Tim literally follows in the footsteps of Princip as his life moves from rural Western Bosnia to his destiny in Sarajevo, as he deftly draws a picture of a character and an anti-hero more complex than history has hitherto portrayed, painting a more rounded sketch of Princip - his motivations, beliefs and hopes. He cuts through the differing propagandistic portrayals of Princip that have served the needs of various parties during the past 100 years, be they Imperialistic Austo-Hungarian, Royalist Pan-Slavic Yugoslav, Socialist or ultra-Nationalist Serb. The account is greatly solidified by Tim's uncovering of new primary historical material. Tim uses his experiences as a war reporter in Bosnia in the early 1990's to bring local knowledge to the telling of the story, and in doing so finds unique linkage between the various periods in the tumultuous history of 20th Century Bosnia and the Balkans, from the crumbling Ottoman Empire through Austro-Hungarian rule, the emergence of South Slav Nationalism, the creation of Yugoslavia post WW-1 and it's experience in WW2, and the violent fracturing and death of Yugoslavia in the 1990's as toxic ethnic-based Nationalism replaced Pan-Slav unity. Tim skillfully shows how the former events shaped the young Princip, and then how his ghost and legacy remained an unseen but nevertheless present specter throughout subsequent events through to today. The flashbacks and anecdotes on the Bosnian war of the 1990's Tim recounts as he follows Princip's trail through Bosnia, although not terribly detailed, nevertheless rank among the best writing on that period since Silber & Little's \" The death of Yugoslavia \" in their brutal, insightful simplicity. Tim's descriptions from his journalistic experiences of the siege of Sarajevo and the genocide at Srebrenica are particularly harrowing. The climatic description of the assassination itself is startlingly crafted through the use of an astonishing photograph with an accompanying detailed account of everything that can be seen in the photo. The Archduke's car is about to make the fatal wrong turn off the Appel quay, and in the photo you can see the front wheels visibly turning to the right; the woman in the white dress outside the Mortiz Schiller cafe must be standing right next to Princip who is just out of sight; the strong sunlight creates a reflective haze against the camera lense; the minarets of old Sarajevo are visible in the background. In writing terms, this is simply breathtaking and achingly haunting, the literary equivalent of the Zapruder film. I had to read this passage several times over. In fact if one closes one's eyes one can interpose two scenes 50 years apart; Appel Quay becomes Dealy Plaza; the Schiller Cafe becomes the Dallas book depositry. I think Tim can' t resist his instinct for the goose-bump raising detail when he informs us the registration number of the Archduke's car is A 111118. Finish reading this one late at night as I did and you feel a goose has walked on your grave. Tim Butcher is fast becoming a must-read author for me and a growing bunch of like-minded friends. To pick up a Butcher book in the evening is like looking forward to a fireside chat over a glass of whiskey with a well-travelled and slightly mysterious Uncle .. The path of the story will meander and may divert onto interesting tangents, but the telling of the tale will be sharp, focused and thoroughly absorbing. An inscription on the wall of Princip's cell read \" our ghosts will walk through Vienna, and roam through the Palace, frightening the Lords \". Tim has brought to life the ghost of Gavrilo Princip, and done justice to his memory. In the 100th anniversary of the shots that started the War, this is the best book of the year for me so far. ...more The Trigger is a fascinating account of the lead up to WWI. It reveals the complexities of the Balkans and the internecine strife between the various religious factions at that time, and sets the scene for the latter troubles in the Bosnian war in the 80's. If you want an understanding of the region, this is a must read. World War One started with the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne. The story of the assassin, Gavrilo Princip, is often summed up in a few lines, or less. Tim Butcher redresses this imbalance by exploring the journey of Gavrilo in a book that is part biography, part history and part travelogue. And he shows how Gavrilo\u2019s vision for Bosnia was arrived at and destroyed. The story starts with Butcher examining the tomb of Gavrilo in Sarajevo during the Bos World War One started with the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne. The story of the assassin, Gavrilo Princip, is often summed up in a few lines, or less. Tim Butcher redresses this imbalance by exploring the journey of Gavrilo in a book that is part biography, part history and part travelogue. And he shows how Gavrilo\u2019s vision for Bosnia was arrived at and destroyed. The story starts with Butcher examining the tomb of Gavrilo in Sarajevo during the Bosnian war of the 1990s. During the siege of Sarajevo it was being used as a public toilet. This surprised Butcher, who was in Bosnia as a war correspondent. Butcher grew up in a quiet Northamptonshire village that honoured its war dead and, after leaving his journalism career, he wanted to seek answers to what drove Gavrilo to assassinate Franz Ferdinand, thus precipitating a war that claimed Butcher\u2019s great uncle and several million besides. To do this he sought to recreate the journey of Gavrilo from his home village in Bosnia to Sarajevo, Belgrade and back to Belgrade. Gavrilo family were poor peasants living on the western margin of Bosnia, an Ottoman province administered by the Austrian empire. The Austrians proclaimed they were bringing civilisation to the poor oppressed peoples of the central Balkans, but apart from a few public works, nothing much changed, just the religion of the foreign occupier. Serfdom and crippling taxes continued. Gavrilo was a quiet, bookish child who stood up to bullies, whether he was the victim or not. He did well at primary school, and his older brother convinced his parents to send him to Sarajevo for secondary schooling. This meant leaving his Bosnian Serb village and living as a boarder in predominantly Muslim Sarajevo. He and his father also had to walk for several days to the nearest train to take them to Sarajevo, Bosnia\u2019s capital. Gavrilo was a model student, but then things began to change. His grades got worse, he needed to repeat some exams, he moved to Belgrade for two years, all the while his passion to rid Bosnia of the foreign occupier growing. Finally, Gavrilo and friends return to Sarajevo to commit the assassination of the heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne. The final chapter is the sad story of Gavrilo post-conviction, a criminal too young for Austrian capital punishment. Butcher begins the journey with an \u00e9migr\u00e9 Bosnian Muslim in Obljaj, Gavrilo\u2019s home village and still home to some of his relatives. He explores what Gavrilo and his legacy \u2013 WWI, Yugoslavia, WWII, Tito\u2019s Yugoslavia and the Bosnian War \u2013 meant to them and to the various people he meets on the way. For some it is a personal matter, such as his family living with the ghost of the man who fired the shots that started the Great War. For others, it is a collective matter, and Bosnian Serbs, Muslims and Croats reacted differently at different times. To the Yugoslav states, he was a hero and martyr. Butcher explores Gavrilo\u2019s motives for the assassination, reaching the conclusion that once more it was the boy standing up for the victims of a bully. Butcher also notes the changing nature of the portrayal of the assassins, morphing to suit the political needs of the portrayers. Along the way he mixes in incidents from his time in Bosnia during the Bosnian War and snippets from history. The result is book that is readable, informative, and provoked a desire in me to recreate Gavrilo\u2019s peregrination, or some major portion of it. I thoroughly recommend this book to all with an interest in history and biography. ...more Tim Butcher may have been a journalist, but what he really wanted to be was a historian. You can see it in his preparation, interests, and research (including the use of social history to fill out his knowledge), which he deftly melds with travel reporting and memoir as he explores the life and impact of Gavro Princip, whose assassination of Franz Ferdinand helped usher the world into war, and future reverberations that tore Yugoslavia apart, led to thousands of civilian deaths perpetrated by ne Tim Butcher may have been a journalist, but what he really wanted to be was a historian. You can see it in his preparation, interests, and research (including the use of social history to fill out his knowledge), which he deftly melds with travel reporting and memoir as he explores the life and impact of Gavro Princip, whose assassination of Franz Ferdinand helped usher the world into war, and future reverberations that tore Yugoslavia apart, led to thousands of civilian deaths perpetrated by neighbors along ethnic lines, and continues to have an impact worldwide even today. He calls out the thugs, but also correctly points out factors that lead some to take up arms. He doesn't do happy, lighthearted travel, no. He liked traipsing through traumatized regions (Bosnia, Serbia, Congo) seeking out truths and exploring areas not often part of travel literature, while also tying his personal experiences into the whole. I know so much more about this area now, one I didn't think to visit before. ...more This book is different from what I expected. The title makes it sound like it's about a hunt for Franz Ferdinand's assassin. (He was captured immediately; there was no need for a \"hunt\" like there was for John Wilkes Booth.) The \"hunt\" is figurative, not literal. The author follows the path that Gavrilo Princip took in his life from his birthplace, ultimately to Sarajevo to shoot Franz Ferdinand. So the book is very much a travelogue, with the author providing details on Princip's life, correcti This book is different from what I expected. The title makes it sound like it's about a hunt for Franz Ferdinand's assassin. (He was captured immediately; there was no need for a \"hunt\" like there was for John Wilkes Booth.) The \"hunt\" is figurative, not literal. The author follows the path that Gavrilo Princip took in his life from his birthplace, ultimately to Sarajevo to shoot Franz Ferdinand. So the book is very much a travelogue, with the author providing details on Princip's life, correcting common misinformation, and providing background on the conflicts in Bosnia and Serbia in the 1990s, which he covered as a reporter. There's a lot of jumping around from the early 20th century, to the 1990s, and to today, which makes it confusing. It can also be slow-moving at times. Nonetheless, a worthwhile read, though not a great one. ...more Although I am not ordinarily interested in historical books, I found that this book proved to be a key explanation for the Archduke's assassination and how its misinterpretation started off WWI. Similarly to the way 9-11, an attack carried out by Saudis, caused the United States to attack Afghanistan, so Princip's dream of a pan-Slavian nation was falsely attributed to Serbian nationalism, and it led to countries facing off against each other for reasons other than the assassination (reasons, ho Although I am not ordinarily interested in historical books, I found that this book proved to be a key explanation for the Archduke's assassination and how its misinterpretation started off WWI. Similarly to the way 9-11, an attack carried out by Saudis, caused the United States to attack Afghanistan, so Princip's dream of a pan-Slavian nation was falsely attributed to Serbian nationalism, and it led to countries facing off against each other for reasons other than the assassination (reasons, however, conveniently attributed to the assassination) and the outbreak of WWI. This book is brilliantly written by a British journalist who himself covered the Bosnian/Serbian war in the 1990s. He unearths documents such as Princip's school grades to show the making of the assassin. Princips was one of six teenagers who aimed to take out the Archduke. He was the only one who succeeded, although one of the others threw a grenade that missed the Archduke's car and obliterated the one behind it. Princips was an idealist, a constant reader, and the farthest thing from a nationalist, even though he happened to be from Serbia. His idea was to unshackle the entire Balkan area from Austro-Hungarian rule and allow self-rule to the united countries of the Balkans, something that only happened in a corrupt way when Marshall Tito pulled the countries together under the banner of communism. The book uncovers such interesting facts as both Franz Ferdinand and Princips being excellent shots, with totals of the Archduke's hunting kills over the years; the author riding on a bus made by the same company that made the Archduke's death car; the fact that Franz Ferdinand now exists as a rock band, and when the author attended its concert, with a huge photo of Princips as a background, no one attending seemed to even know who Princips was; how Princips was first regarded as a Serbian nationalist, then years later a liberator from Austro-Hungarian rule, then years after that as a terrorist. Princip's main motivation was to stop the Balkan states from continuous impoverishment as colonies of others' empires (first Ottoman, then Austro-Hungarian). He was an excellent student when he wanted to be, but he became gradually radicalized during his years in Sarajevo from the age of 13 to 19, when he killed the Archduke. His team of assassins included Serbs, Bosnians, Muslims, and people oppressed by the empire, but history incorrectly labeled him a radical Serb. The manifestations of this incorrect labeling were among the causes of the 1990s Bosnian/Serbian War. So Princip's lofty ideals led him to be vilified throughout history and made him a false cause for WWI. The author concludes that Princips is just an everyman who represented all the oppressed peoples of the Balkans, although the historical narrative has been twisted by various powers for their own convenience. The book has some photos of Princips and one of the Dealey Plaza Moment taken seconds before Princips hit the Archduke as the car heaves into view. The entire book is absorbing and helps explain the 1990s war as well as the immediate context of the assassination in 1914. I would highly recommend it, even to people not that interested in history. ...more I found this a fascinating read. The author actually follows the physical path taken by the man who triggered World War 1 from his rural roots to the city where he assassinated the Archduke. It takes in the challenging and beautiful geography of the Balkans but also, more significantly, its fraught political and religious past. The Bosnian war of the 1990s is ever present along the way and the author deftly draws parallels between the earlier and later conflicts. The assassination turns out to b I found this a fascinating read. The author actually follows the physical path taken by the man who triggered World War 1 from his rural roots to the city where he assassinated the Archduke. It takes in the challenging and beautiful geography of the Balkans but also, more significantly, its fraught political and religious past. The Bosnian war of the 1990s is ever present along the way and the author deftly draws parallels between the earlier and later conflicts. The assassination turns out to be the tip of an iceberg. And I wonder if it has been assuaged... ...more Boy, did this book surprise me. A surprise recommendation from my son who normally eschews non-fiction history, I eagerly started reading this, thinking I was going to learn some new insights into Gavrilo Princip and the origins of World War I. I actually didn't think I would learn much at all as I had recently read Hasting's \"Road to Catastrophe\" which covered the topic in quite some depth. The book is not at all a straight non-fiction history and this became apparent in the first few chapters w Boy, did this book surprise me. A surprise recommendation from my son who normally eschews non-fiction history, I eagerly started reading this, thinking I was going to learn some new insights into Gavrilo Princip and the origins of World War I. I actually didn't think I would learn much at all as I had recently read Hasting's \"Road to Catastrophe\" which covered the topic in quite some depth. The book is not at all a straight non-fiction history and this became apparent in the first few chapters when much time was spent by the author traipsing about the Bosnian hill country where Princip was born. I almost put it aside as I didn't really want a travelogue. But, the more I read, the more I was drawn in. Butcher was a war correspondent during the Bosnian War in the 1990's and as he physically retraced in 2012 Princip's journey from home village to Sarajevo to Belgrade and back to Sarajevo, the journey and people he met (and re-met) were used to tell stories about the recent past in Bosnia as well as stories from the Tito partisan era during World War II. Eventually, the story ends with the movements of the plotters in Sarajevo leading up to Ferdinand's assassination and the immediate aftermath of the captured participants. Since the Bosnian War is close to our own time, was replete with ethnic cleansing, and fought by people not so different from the typical westerner - you can't help but think how lucky we are in the US to not use religion as a tribal reason for fighting zero-sum games over land. Yet, at the same time, extremist elements within our own US(or European) society sharpen (in the back of your mind) Butcher's story about Bosnia over these last 100 years and how easily bad policies can lead to political assassination and unwitting steps to greater tragedy. The conceit of re-tracing Princip's actual journey made for a reasonably original story that invokes retrospective thoughts on the fragility of modern society told through the unhappy history of Bosnia. WW I may seem far away but Bosnia of the 90's is not. ...more Author dug around in WWI histories and could find next to nothing on Gavrilo Princip the man who assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand which started WWI, so he decided to find out what he could about him by tracking GPs movements in Bosnia before the act. This is part history part travelogue. Butcher hikes cross country, crosses Tent Mountain and bumps into a host of colourful folk. He also spends some time detailing Tito and the partisans as well as the miseries suffered by Bosnian Moslems in t Author dug around in WWI histories and could find next to nothing on Gavrilo Princip the man who assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand which started WWI, so he decided to find out what he could about him by tracking GPs movements in Bosnia before the act. This is part history part travelogue. Butcher hikes cross country, crosses Tent Mountain and bumps into a host of colourful folk. He also spends some time detailing Tito and the partisans as well as the miseries suffered by Bosnian Moslems in the 1990s war (Butcher covered this conflict as a reporter for a British newspaper). But the Princip investigation is the best part. What Butcher discovers is that Princip did his dastardly deed on behalf of southern Slav freedom from Austro-Hungarian domination. It was the Austro-Hungarians who twisted it into a Serbian plot for their own purposes and in the process starting the domino effect that created WWI. Well done. ...more I loved this book. First of all, I learned a ton. Loved Butcher's writing style of mixing in personal narrative with rich history (as in his other books). It was not a super quick read for me, but that's because I had to keep setting it down so I could think, think, think, and I LOVE that. I also can appreciate the incredible amount of research that must have gone into this project. I still say that nothing is as crazy as his overland trip through Congo, but the intention of this book wasn't mea I loved this book. First of all, I learned a ton. Loved Butcher's writing style of mixing in personal narrative with rich history (as in his other books). It was not a super quick read for me, but that's because I had to keep setting it down so I could think, think, think, and I LOVE that. I also can appreciate the incredible amount of research that must have gone into this project. I still say that nothing is as crazy as his overland trip through Congo, but the intention of this book wasn't meant to be extreme adventure, but rather to uncover history, walk in the shoes of Princip, and discover the intentions behind a character in history who was the catalyst for war. Nicely done and highly recommended. ...more Ever since I first noticed this book on a Goodreads list I have been keen to read it. Finally I got my hands on it and it ticked all the boxes for me. Not only did I discover more about Gavrilo Princip it has introduced me to the turbulent history of the Bulkans. The author took me with him on his journey of discovery and opened my eyes to a history I knew very little of. I love a book that not only keeps me reading but allows me to gain a better understanding of history. My Great, Great Uncle a Ever since I first noticed this book on a Goodreads list I have been keen to read it. Finally I got my hands on it and it ticked all the boxes for me. Not only did I discover more about Gavrilo Princip it has introduced me to the turbulent history of the Bulkans. The author took me with him on his journey of discovery and opened my eyes to a history I knew very little of. I love a book that not only keeps me reading but allows me to gain a better understanding of history. My Great, Great Uncle a young man a very long way from his home paid the ultimate price in World War 1 towards the last months of 1918. Reading this book has made me think of how different his life (and the lives of so many other people) would have been if Princip was not on that street corner in Sarajevo in 1914. ...more What a great book! I thought I was going to read a narrative about the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand. What I gat was that and much, much more. Part history, part travelogue, this is a unique telling of a fascinating part of history (both distant and contemporary) and of Europe. Should be required reading for those interested in 20th Century history. finish the book in less then a week. Well written,life of people in Balkan over century. Butcher brings alive the story of Gavrilo Princip uknown to many The author takes us from his remote village to Sarajevo where he over the years became a young angry man with situation in Balkans an decide to fight the oppressor This a book which has two stories (Princip's journey and the author's journey)being told simultaneously while a third story (the author's time in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the war in 1990s) acts as a filler.Since the author didn't travel a conflict zone like his previous two books,you may not enjoy the slow pace (for which I am docking a star) with lots of history.But this book tells about one serious attempt to find out \"who was Gavrilo Princip?\".There is a lot of material in the book which This a book which has two stories (Princip's journey and the author's journey)being told simultaneously while a third story (the author's time in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the war in 1990s) acts as a filler.Since the author didn't travel a conflict zone like his previous two books,you may not enjoy the slow pace (for which I am docking a star) with lots of history.But this book tells about one serious attempt to find out \"who was Gavrilo Princip?\".There is a lot of material in the book which you are not taught in history classes.Furthermore alongside Princip we also come to know a lot about Bosnia and Herzegovina.Some parts in the book are boring while some take us back to 1914.All in all it is a must read for those having an interest in history's greatest assasin. ...more A great read and I recommend for anyone looking for a basic introduction to Balkan history. Tim Butcher takes a very complicated history of the Balkan peninsula and makes it easy to understand while interweaving his own firsthand experiences. His perspective makes this book that much more unique. Fascinating read! Loved learning more about the history through the author's experiences. Definitely recommend! Gavrilo Princip's actions changed the world, and yet he himself left almost no historical footprint. He is a cipher, a mere cog in the wheel of history. He is the man who set the First World War in motion, nothing more. In himself he is almost unimportant; he simply needed to do what he did in order for history to follow its preordained path. You'd think all that was true, from the way history and historians have treated Princip. Pick up almost any book on the First World War and you will read th Gavrilo Princip's actions changed the world, and yet he himself left almost no historical footprint. He is a cipher, a mere cog in the wheel of history. He is the man who set the First World War in motion, nothing more. In himself he is almost unimportant; he simply needed to do what he did in order for history to follow its preordained path. You'd think all that was true, from the way history and historians have treated Princip. Pick up almost any book on the First World War and you will read that the Archduke Franz Ferdinand, heir to the Austro-Hungarian Hapsburg Empire was assassinated in Sarajevo - and it might say very little more than that. Even the language used is telling - the Archduke 'was assassinated', almost a passive act. Not 'Princip assassinated the Archduke'. Princip's actions, his own history, his motivations, his worldview, his beliefs - these aren't relevant. A mere cog in the machine. Tim Butcher sets out to overturn that, to retrace Princip's steps in his native Bosnia. And yet somehow, again, Princip slips through the cracks. This book isn't about the nineteen-year-old Gavrilo Princip. He is the framework on which the tale hangs, but it isn't really about him. It's about Bosnia; it's about the twentieht-century's murderous legacies; it's about the Bosnia War; and it's about Tim Butcher. Princip emerges from the shadows on occasion, but the sections of this book really devoted to him could be condensed into just a few chapters. More than anything else, this book is about Tim Butcher retracing his own steps as a young war reporter in Bosnia. And yet, I thoroughly enjoyed this book. Butcher is an engaging travel companion - he has a fine eye for the unusual and picaresque, a whimsical turn of phrase, and a touch of real poetry. On the occasions when Princip comes to life he leaves you longing for more, for a deeper understanding of how this one young man's actions changed the world. It is fascinating how this small neglected impoverished country could have so fundamentally altered the path of history, not just once with the First World War, but again later in the century with the Bosnia War, NATO's first military intervention after decades of preparing for war against Russia, an intervention which opened the gates to Kosovo, Afghanistan, Iraq. Bosnia served as a training ground for jihadists fighting on behalf of the Bosnian Muslims, experiences which would later come home to roost for the West. If you pick this book up hoping for a straightforward biography of Gavrilo Princip, you will be disappointed. Princip's actions may yet be impacting upon history, but he himself left so little mark any biography would be a disappointment. But if you approach this book with a open mind and follow Butcher on his journey, I doubt you'll come away discontented. ...more The Trigger: Hunting the Assassin Who Brought the World to War by Tim Butcher 4 stars pp. 336 When I read a book by Tim Butcher I feel as if I am on a journey through time as well as a traversing the countryside. Countryside may be a bit euphemistic because previous travels were in the Congo with Blood River and Sierra Leone and Liberia with Chasing the Devil . Butcher's latest work The Trigger: Hunting the Assassin Who Brought the World to War celebrates the centennial of The Great War, WWI, by trav The Trigger: Hunting the Assassin Who Brought the World to War by Tim Butcher 4 stars pp. 336 When I read a book by Tim Butcher I feel as if I am on a journey through time as well as a traversing the countryside. Countryside may be a bit euphemistic because previous travels were in the Congo with Blood River and Sierra Leone and Liberia with Chasing the Devil . Butcher's latest work The Trigger: Hunting the Assassin Who Brought the World to War celebrates the centennial of The Great War, WWI, by traveling through Bosnia and Serbia to unearth details about Gavrilo Princip's life and what may have led him to pull the trigger which assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand. Along the way, Butcher hoped to find the ways in which this effected the history of Bosnia and Serbia as Butcher had been a reporter covering the Bosnian conflict during the 1990's. Butcher provides the service of building a historical background to life in Bosnia in both the early and late 20th century, I began to see a picture of what life was life for young Gavrilo who was described as a serf in one official paper. I especially appreciated the history and background I was given regarding the war of the 1990's which has always seemed shadowy and unclear to me. Most poignant was his encounters with some of the Bosnians and their descriptions of life through the times and coming to terms with it afterwards. Tim Butcher actually walked through the country with one man, Arnie who was his interpreter during the war and later moved to England. He tells Tim why he could never again live in Bosnia\" \"And the point is this I know the people who did it and they are no different from Zdravko. He is kind and he is generous and he is helpful. We saw this ourselves. But I know in my heart that, when it comes down to it here, ethnicity can be toxic - it can count more than whether it is in your nature to be kind and generous. 'What will you do when the shit really hits the fan? It's the quest that would always be on my mind if I came to live here again. That's why I cannot come back' I found The Trigger to be intriguing on many levels, Butcher's walk through pristine countryside where bear, and wolves still live and one must stick to traveled trails because of the mines littering the countryside, the careful examination of Gavrilo Princip's life and getting to know the young man who pulled the trigger that changed the course of history and the clarifying of the Bosnian War of the 1990's. For those hoping for more details about The Great War, it is not to be found here but the reader is given background regarding some of the players who would enter it. The Trigger is a book which is hard to put down and I am still thinking about it. ...more", "Title": "The Trigger: Hunting the Assassin Who Brought the World to War"},
