{"Comments": "<+++>Curse of The Salute</+++>Personally, I am intrigued by this narrative and the figure of its fascinating author. One thing is for sure and that is her broad general knowledge, including her cultural awareness and adventurous spirit as well. Although I am not so much into 'suspense',<---M> I really enjoyed the casual style</---M>, descriptive language and all the things surrounding the sea, fishing and people involved in the plot. Characters are convincing indeed, perhaps based on some real-life destinies. Moreover, at first I thought t Personally, I am intrigued by this narrative and the figure of its fascinating author. One thing is for sure and that is her broad general knowledge, including her cultural awareness and adventurous spirit as well. Although I am not so much into 'suspense', I really enjoyed the casual style, descriptive language and all the things surrounding the sea, fishing and people involved in the plot. Characters are convincing indeed, perhaps based on some real-life destinies. Moreover, at first I thought the online book description was a bit short, unlike the biography info, but in fact this very fact made me want to read more and more. Finally, I assume that this great story could be interpreted both metaphorically and literally. On both accounts, of course this book is worth reading, filming etc. ...more If you like to be led on a journey aboard a creaky, scary fishing vessel, and want to find out what is causing mayhem and death, climb aboard the \"Salute\". A boat owned by Dick Frank, handed down to him via his father. Dick must face obstacles both real AND supernatural to find and deter whatever evil forces have taken hold of this old 59' fishing schooner before it is too late. I got this book through Amazon as a paperback. I must say, I was intrigued by first of all, the cover art. It is very eye catching, as well as the preview of the novel itself. Ms. Moore does an excellent job in developing her characters, and while there may be some slight editorial things, that did not detract in the least from the overall enjoyment of the novel. The story revolves around a fishing boat, and the father and son who own and fish on it. There is apparently something sinister connect I got this book through Amazon as a paperback. I must say, I was intrigued by first of all, the cover art. It is very eye catching, as well as the preview of the novel itself. Ms. Moore does an excellent job in developing her characters, and while there may be some slight editorial things, that did not detract in the least from the overall enjoyment of the novel. The story revolves around a fishing boat, and the father and son who own and fish on it. There is apparently something sinister connected to the boat, as things happen that cause accidents, and harm to those associated with the Salute. The father is taken ill, so the son, Dick hires on a drifter, and basically teaches him the ropes of tuna fishing. As they set out to catch fish to keep the business afloat (<---B>excuse the pun</---B>), tragedy seems to be so strongly attached to this boat, that there is no escape. I will refrain from going into further detail on the plot, only suffice it to say, that it is truly a page turner. It peaked my interest from the first page, and held it until the last. Ms. Moore's prose is clean, simple, and flows quite smoothly. Her account of the day to day life in the world of commercial fishing onboard a smaller, under 60 foot, fishing boat is taken from her own experience as a fisherman, and her descriptions very concise and interesting. I highly recommend this story for an exciting read. I was definitely pleased with it, and look forward to more from Ms. Moore. ...more When I first saw the cover of this book, it interested me, in that it mentioned CURSE, and SALUTE; not having any idea how a SALUTE could be cursed, I began reading, and from the first chapter was hooked. I wanted to find out WHY the main character was trapped in the hold of this fishing vessel. As I continued to read, the characters came to life right before my eyes, and they were INTERESTING, and BELIEVABLE! The author, <---A>Anastacia Moore</---A> certainly seems to know exactly what she is writing about. When I first saw the cover of this book, it interested me, in that it mentioned CURSE, and SALUTE; not having any idea how a SALUTE could be cursed, I began reading, and from the first chapter was hooked. I wanted to find out WHY the main character was trapped in the hold of this fishing vessel. As I continued to read, the characters came to life right before my eyes, and they were INTERESTING, and BELIEVABLE! The author, Anastacia Moore certainly seems to know exactly what she is writing about. Her descriptions of the boat, the way that tuna fishing works, and the actual life on the sea are SPOT ON! She holds your interest throughout the entire book, and makes you feel like you are experiencing the events as they unfurl right along with her characters. There is a little rough language, but in my experience, that would be how rough and tumble sailors and fishermen would talk in certain situations. I look forward to more from Ms. Moore, and think that she has a best seller on her hands with this one. Thank you Anastacia Moore for a book well written, and wonderful character development! http://www.amazon.com/Curse-Salute-An... ...more Great plot, and the character development was outstanding. When I first read the sample it caught my interest enough so that I purchased the paperback, and I hate to use an age old cliche' but it truly is a real page turner. You become so caught up in the opening chapter, that you are compelled to keep reading to find out where you will be led next. It is in no way comparable to Stephen King's The Stand in length, but it is a compelling journey into the lives of fishermen and the battle that is Great plot, and the character development was outstanding. When I first read the sample it caught my interest enough so that I purchased the paperback, and I hate to use an age old cliche' but it truly is a real page turner. You become so caught up in the opening chapter, that you are compelled to keep reading to find out where you will be led next. It is in no way comparable to Stephen King's The Stand in length, but it is a compelling journey into the lives of fishermen and the battle that is waged between good and evil. Well written, well researched, which I came to find out after reading more information on Anastacia Moore, wasn't actually research at all as pertaining to the descriptive accounts of the life of a commercial fisherman. In her biography, it indicates that she ACTUALLY WAS A FISHER'WOMAN' on a real boat called \"SALUTE\". She had created a movie trailer for her novel visible on You Tube, and I have to admit, even seeing that, prior to reading the book, would have caught my interest enough to check into the book. All in all, I highly recommend this book, and look forward to future work from this excellent author, Anastacia Moore. ...more This is an excellent novel by Anastacia Moore. She has a wonderful writing style, that captures your interest from the very beginning and holds it throughout the entire book. The story revolves around the main character Dick Frank, who is the son of a fisherman on a tuna boat that is haunted by ghosts of the past owner and his crew. As the story unravels, this character has to deal with the sickness of his father, mysterious things happening while he is out fishing for tuna, and eventually winds u This is an excellent novel by Anastacia Moore. She has a wonderful writing style, that captures your interest from the very beginning and holds it throughout the entire book. The story revolves around the main character Dick Frank, who is the son of a fisherman on a tuna boat that is haunted by ghosts of the past owner and his crew. As the story unravels, this character has to deal with the sickness of his father, mysterious things happening while he is out fishing for tuna, and eventually winds up in a mental ward. Without giving much away, he comes to help out new owners John and Mary, who want to turn the Salute into a tourist boat, and begin encountering the same paranormal occurrences. The characters are interesting, and the plot is outstanding. I highly recommend this book to anyone who is interested in fishing, ghosts, or paranormal. Ms. Moore has done an excellent job in developing her characters and in keeping you turning the pages to ultimately come to a harrowing conclusion.<---F> https://ebookstore</---F>.sony.com/ebook/ana... ...more This was a great chiller that kept me on the edge of my seat. The characters were well defined for a shorter novel but I would have liked to have known more about the past of the ship. Maybe that was the allure though. It really made you think about what the fate of all of those sailors really was. It was edited well with few mistakes and I really enjoyed reading it. I would definitely recommend it. This is an excellent book about a ghostly fishing boat and the people whose lives it involves. I really enjoyed the characters, some gruff and gnarly, and some just in the wrong place at the wrong time. I think readers of horror fiction will really enjoy this work by the author. She has a way of drawing you in to the action, and making you feel as if you are right there. I highly recommend this book. An interesting little chiller with a compelling plot line. Moore infuses the story well with numerous, concrete details, however, I felt the excitement of the climax was concluded too quickly. It would benefit from some editing and proofreading, but, all in all, a decent read. It will be interesting to see what lies in store for the next people brave (or foolish) enough to board the \"Salute\". Eye opening look into the lives of commercial fishermen, and the hazards they face on the open sea, but even worse yet, the dangers of not adhering to time honored myths handed down through the centuries. The haunting of the fishing vessel Salute is ripe with danger, and will keep you glued to the pages as you discover the secrets of the <+++>Curse of The Salute</+++>. Great book. True to life characters. Really enjoyed reading this book. Ms. Moore does an excellent job and her writing is concise, unassuming, and very descriptive of both her characters and the scene she lays out. I recommend it! This book is a great read!<---C>Anastacia Moore</---C>", "Title": "Curse of The Salute"},
