{"Comments": "Sixty pages into this book, I stopped and looked at the back of it. What was it about again? Did the same thing sixty pages later. When I finally closed the back cover, I realized that this is a book about nothing.<---F> It's Seinfeld in Edinburgh</---F>. McCall Smith did this serial novel for The Scotsman newspaper in Edinburgh. Each chapter is short -- about 9 inches of copy for a daily newspaper run. And what he's created is this wonderful and funny character study. Like Seinfeld,<---M> nothing much happens</---M>, but Sixty pages into this book, I stopped and looked at the back of it. What was it about again? Did the same thing sixty pages later. When I finally closed the back cover, I realized that this is a book about nothing. It's Seinfeld in Edinburgh. McCall Smith did this serial novel for The Scotsman newspaper in Edinburgh. Each chapter is short -- about 9 inches of copy for a daily newspaper run. And what he's created is this wonderful and funny character study. Like Seinfeld, nothing much happens, but you really, really enjoy the ride. He had so much fun doing this book that he continued the series and did a second volume. I hadn't intended to read the second volume, but, upon finishing this first one, I marched right out and bought Espresso Tales . I had to find out what happened to these hilarious characters -- the narcissist surveyor, the hesitant heroine, the incompetent gallery owner, the eccentric portrait painter with the gold-toothed dog, the domineering mother of the five-year-old prodigy. The characters are the strength of this series and I think I might be hooked for a while. ...more I've just finished this book, and I'm absolutely enchanted with it. The title of the last chapter sums it up: \"Gain, Loss, Friendship, Love.\" What more could one ask? <+++>44 Scotland Street</+++> is a gentle book, like murmured conversation about fascinating things. The characters are more real than many people I've met in the flesh. After the last page is read, you feel that they continue on without you, as in life. Literary fiction is like art, I suppose: you either love it or you don't. I loved it. <---A>Alexander McCall Smith</---A> writes a certain type of novel, a cosy sandwiches and scones for afternoon tea type of book, whether it is in wet and gloomy Scotland or the glorious sun-filled vistas of Botswana. He has a definite turn of phrase that is quite unique, but sometimes it seems to be done because he is so delighted in himself than for moving the stories or characters onward. I enjoyed the The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency series until it ran out of steam - same characters without anything ne Alexander McCall Smith writes a certain type of novel, a cosy sandwiches and scones for afternoon tea type of book, whether it is in wet and gloomy Scotland or the glorious sun-filled vistas of Botswana. He has a definite turn of phrase that is quite unique, but sometimes it seems to be done because he is so delighted in himself than for moving the stories or characters onward. I enjoyed the The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency series until it ran out of steam - same characters without anything new to add to them so they become characturish, same setting, same very tiny and unimportant plots. The excellent writing wasn't enough to induce me to read yet another one after about the sixth or seventh. And so I see it with this book. Another situation, another cosy character or three and very small plots.... This book was ok, but I'm not going to read the series, I'll stop here. ...more Surprised at how much I enjoyed this, really surprised\u2026 Before you read this review make some tea get cosy because you are about to take a sneak peek into other people\u2019s lives \u201cThe young rarely believe that they will not be able to get what they want \u00a0because there is always an open future.\u201d I have to admit that I am always a bit curious as to how my next-door neighbours live, how they act behind closed doors, what they eat for dinner, what books are on their bookshelves and just the general Surprised at how much I enjoyed this, really surprised\u2026 Before you read this review make some tea get cosy because you are about to take a sneak peek into other people\u2019s lives \u201cThe young rarely believe that they will not be able to get what they \n  want\n  \u00a0because there is always an open future.\u201d I have to admit that I am always a bit curious as to how my next-door neighbours live, how they act behind closed doors, what they eat for dinner, what books are on their bookshelves and just the general curiosity. Well if you have that burning itch to snoop this book is most definitely for you, the way the author captured the lifestyle of a small apartment building and the inhabitants were simply exquisite. The premise of the book follows Pat a young na\u00efve 20something-year-old girl who moved out of her parent\u2019s house because \u201cIndependence\u201d and on her search for a place to stay she comes across space at <+++>44 Scotland Street</+++>. Her life takes an interesting turn when she meet Bruce - Her Roommate who is a narcissistic womaniser Domenica \u2013 A Writer/ Anthropologist who knows all the neighbour\u2019s dirty laundry Erica \u2013 pushy Stockbridge mother, and her prodigiously talented five-year-old son, who is making good progress with the saxophone and with his Italian. Matthew \u2013 Her New Boss who is struggling to keep his Art Gallery Business afloat And we follow each individual as they interact with one another as well as face their life struggles induvial. The characters were so lifelike and the dialogue between them felt genuine. The witty banter present in the writing was sharp and had this dry humour that had me bursting out in public. I appreciate a book that could genuinely make me laugh and this one accomplished that goal so effortlessly. It still had its interesting moments of human psychology as some of the character\u2019s philosophies shown without being too direct e.g. Disturbing Parental ways, Failed dreams, self-discovery and so much more. A mystery about a certain painting is present but be weary the mystery doesn't drive the book but the individuals\u00a0do. \u201cDaughters could survive a powerful mother, but boys found it almost impossible. Such boys were often severely damaged and spent the rest of their lives running away from their mothers, or from anybody who remotely reminded them of their mothers; either that, or they became their mothers, in a desperate, misguided act of psychological self defence .\u201d I really had one problem with the book the forced attraction between Pat and Bruce was off putting and just too confusing. It made the female character appear very weak and needy which was just another train wreck. Other than that, the book was such a pleasure from alcoholic dogs to Interesting characters\u00a0and just hilarious scenes would highly recommend it. About Author The small fact this book was originally serialised and a chapter was realised each week in an Edinburgh newspaper. Thanks for Reading :) So until next time stay Bookish ;) ...more There is something about McCall's Smith's writing that brings a smile to my face. Having read all of the No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency books and adored them, I was hoping to find this series appealing as well and I certainly do. Meeting these Scottish characters is like sitting down to share a cup of coffee with a group of friends. Normally, the tangents some of these characters take would feel irrelevant and make me feel rather impatient, but I was willing to ramble anywhere in the city and cov There is something about McCall's Smith's writing that brings a smile to my face. Having read all of the No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency books and adored them, I was hoping to find this series appealing as well and I certainly do. Meeting these Scottish characters is like sitting down to share a cup of coffee with a group of friends. Normally, the tangents some of these characters take would feel irrelevant and make me feel rather impatient, but I was willing to ramble anywhere in the city and cover any subject with these folks. I just wanted to spend time with them. I like Pat too. She's a realistic, sympathetic character and I look forward to sharing new experiences with her. ...more http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b051rjpk ETA Checked my notebooks and I will not be revisiting this with a view to pick it off the one star floor. Alexander McCall Smith had already created two incredibly diverse series \u2014 one with Mma Precious Ramotswe, the intuitive and clever Botswanan detective who debuted in the novel The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency , and philosopher Isabel Dalhousie of The Sunday Philosophy Club series \u2014 when a chance meeting with Armistead Maupin gave us 44 Scotland Street . Speaking with Maupin, the author of Tales of the City , gave Smith the idea of borrowing the idea of the apartment house in San Francisco and tr Alexander McCall Smith had already created two incredibly diverse series \u2014 one with Mma Precious Ramotswe, the intuitive and clever Botswanan detective who debuted in the novel The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency , and philosopher Isabel Dalhousie of The Sunday Philosophy Club series \u2014 when a chance meeting with Armistead Maupin gave us 44 Scotland Street . Speaking with Maupin, the author of Tales of the City , gave Smith the idea of borrowing the idea of the apartment house in San Francisco and transplanting it to Edinburgh\u2019s trendy New Town neighborhood. This being Smith, the result isn\u2019t the least derivative. As Maupin\u2019s tale begins with Mary Ann Singleton moving into an apartment at 28 Barbary Lane, 44 Scotland Street begins when Pat MacGregor, a girl on her second gap year, decides to share a flat in the eponymous building. As the chapters of Tales of the City were serialized in The San Francisco Chronicle in 1976, the 110 chapters of 44 Scotland Street were serialized in The Scotsman in 2004. But there, the similarities end. While Maupin wrote mostly about young people adjusting to hip San Francisco, the flats at 44 Scotland Street contain residents of the breadth of society: uncertain Pat; her flatmate, narcissistic, smug, and unscrupulous Bruce Anderson; the sophisticated semi-retired anthropologist Domenica MacDonald and her custard-colored Mercedes-Benz 560 SEC; and beleaguered Bertie Pollack, his milquetoast father Stuart, and his extremely pushy, snobbish mother, Irene, an aficionado of ultra-modern child psychology theories who\u2019s intent on turning her son into a saxophone-playing, Italian-speaking prodigy. The novel also delves into the inhabitants\u2019 friends, family, and employers. While the chapters are short, Smith, as always , manages to maintain the perfect balancing act in which he tackles Big Ideas and philosophical questions \u2014 the \u201cconversations about things worth talking about,\u201d as one character calls it \u2014 while remaining amusing and often laugh-out-loud funny. Be sure to have the next book in the series in hand before you finish 44 Scotland Street : You\u2019ll be eager to tackle Espresso Tales right away to discover what further adventures befall the 44 Scotland Street denizens. ...more I wish I'd known before purchasing this for my kindle that it was originally published as a daily!! newspaper serial. Being prolific obviously comes easily to McCall, and he accepted this challenge with no second thoughts (<---B>comparing himself to Dickens!</---B>) whose novels were also originally published as serials, but Mccall does a disservice to the reader. Too many characters with too many stories, some of which never become resolved. And most of these characters are one dimensional. I was especially I wish I'd known before purchasing this for my kindle that it was originally published as a daily!! newspaper serial. Being prolific obviously comes easily to McCall, and he accepted this challenge with no second thoughts (comparing himself to Dickens!) whose novels were also originally published as serials, but Mccall does a disservice to the reader. Too many characters with too many stories, some of which never become resolved. And most of these characters are one dimensional. I was especially irked by the young woman who thinks her flatmate is a jerk but can't resist his physical beauty. Do any women really think this way? Sounds more like a man to me. I believed (whether it was true or not) that I could see McCall at night, biting his lip while he thought up another so many words to have it at the newspaper in time. While not enjoying this aspect of the book, I can't help but be impressed by this writer's vocabulary, fluid style and general knowledge. I wish he'd slow down (surely he's earned enough by now) and write one, long, great novel!! ...more This was my first taste of Alexander McCall Smith's writing and I was not disappointed. Based on a set of characters either residing in, or involved in some with with those residing in, a building of flats in Scotland, the books follows them through various aspects of their lives. Beautifully written, the characters were deep, interesting, and fun to follow through the trials and tribulations of their lives. And McCall Smith is one of the best writers I've had the joy of reading in quite some ti This was my first taste of Alexander McCall Smith's writing and I was not disappointed. Based on a set of characters either residing in, or involved in some with with those residing in, a building of flats in Scotland, the books follows them through various aspects of their lives. Beautifully written, the characters were deep, interesting, and fun to follow through the trials and tribulations of their lives. And McCall Smith is one of the best writers I've had the joy of reading in quite some time. I very much look forward to starting second in his \"44 Scotland Street\" series. ...more I was lent this book by a friend who insisted that I read it. I will be clear up front that this isn\u2019t a book I would have chosen on my own, since I primarily read classics and nonfiction. That said, I do see why my friend liked it. I though it was okay, but no more than that. It was written as a series of daily excerpts in the newspaper The Scotsman, and this shows. The chapters are very short, seldom as long as three pages. In order to keep the reader interested from day to day, the author felt I was lent this book by a friend who insisted that I read it. I will be clear up front that this isn\u2019t a book I would have chosen on my own, since I primarily read classics and nonfiction. That said, I do see why my friend liked it. I though it was okay, but no more than that. It was written as a series of daily excerpts in the newspaper The Scotsman, and this shows. The chapters are very short, seldom as long as three pages. In order to keep the reader interested from day to day, the author felt that he had to pack in the events right on top of each other. As a consequence, there is very little space for character development or for descriptions of any kind. In addition, the action, such as it is, hopscotches from one set of characters to another like a bee sipping momentarily from flower after flower, never spending more than a few moments with any one. The action takes place entirely in a small area of Edinburgh, Scotland, but we never get enough of a description to have any real sense of the places or environment in which events are taking place. Several of the characters live in a rooming house, but we never get to see the house, the street, or much about the interiors of any of the rooms we visit. It\u2019s much like watching a play on a bare stage which has characters dashing in, delivering a few lines, and dashing out again. We don\u2019t get those lovely descriptions that Trollope, for example, gives us that bring characters to light and give us the sense that we would know them if we ran into them in the street; I could walk past any one of the characters in this book with no spark of recognition whatsoever. Nor do we get any real sense of what Scotland Street looks like, nor of the interior of the art gallery where two of the characters work, nor of any other venue in the book. For a book that takes place in a real place, one has to go to Google Street View to get any sense of the environment in which the characters move. There is some humor, but it\u2019s a muted humor. It\u2019s not the wit of Austen, nor the hilarity of Wodehouse, nor the wry English humor of John Mortimer. It\u2019s humor strained through a screen of cheesecloth. I found that the book worked best as a bedside book. It isn\u2019t so engrossing that you don\u2019t want to put it down when it\u2019s time to turn out the light. You never have to spend more than a few minutes to get to a convenient stopping point, and never have to stop reading in the middle of a chapter or scene. It isn\u2019t as soporific as, say, Aquinas or Kant, but it is relaxing, intellectually undemanding, and generally restful. Overall, then, it\u2019s a pleasant enough book. On the Baconian scale of books, it\u2019s a book to be tasted, but more as the peanuts on the bar than as part of a meal. For those readers for whom that\u2019s enough to expect from a book, it\u2019s a fine read. Those who want more from a book are advised to look elsewhere. ...more Alexander McCall-Smith was invited to write a serialized story for an Edinburgh new paper. Each day a short chapter would be published. The author wrote the book as he went along, trying to keep a number of issues ahead. This type of story has interesting consequences. Each chapter needs to be a stand-alone story, worthy of publication. It needs to draw ther reader to buy the next issue of the paper to keep up. Also... there is no going back to change an element in the story once a chapter has b Alexander McCall-Smith was invited to write a serialized story for an Edinburgh new paper. Each day a short chapter would be published. The author wrote the book as he went along, trying to keep a number of issues ahead. This type of story has interesting consequences. Each chapter needs to be a stand-alone story, worthy of publication. It needs to draw ther reader to buy the next issue of the paper to keep up. Also... there is no going back to change an element in the story once a chapter has been published. They style is interesting. The writer was of interest to me for the #1 Women's Detective Agency Series that he has written. The book was given to me from friends from Edinburgh who enjoyed the setting. The book follows a series of people who live in Edinburgh in modern times on Scotland street. Their lives intersect as a matter of proximity. Each has a series of little adventures, making discoveries about themsleves... or not. But the reader is treated to a moral lesson. The characters are charming and interesting. The book is like Maeve Binchy novels except there is no central problem that is being addressed. Life goes on and little adventures ensue. But I found the lack of a central story disconcerting until I realized... this was it. Then I enjoyed the description of the characters. The story finished abruptly, in my opinion. No resolutions were offered to a number of problems raised. But that is life, isn't it. Plus... I understand this is the beginning of the series and if I want to see how the other people and issues develop... I need to keep reading. ...more I've heard and read so many positive reviews of Alexander McCall Smith's novels that when I saw this one at the local library I checked it out. I wanted a change of pace and tone after finishing a somber, difficult to read novel. I wasn't taken immediately by this novel, almost abandoning it, thinking it was a little too cotton-candyish for my taste. I'm glad I kept with it. All the residents of 44 Scotland Street have interesting back stories, and McCall Smith develops each character with an ey I've heard and read so many positive reviews of Alexander McCall Smith's novels that when I saw this one at the local library I checked it out. I wanted a change of pace and tone after finishing a somber, difficult to read novel. I wasn't taken immediately by this novel, almost abandoning it, thinking it was a little too cotton-candyish for my taste. I'm glad I kept with it. All the residents of 44 Scotland Street have interesting back stories, and McCall Smith develops each character with an eye toward future installments of the series. Some, like Pat and Matthew, are young, diffident, and endearing; others are oblivious to their own narcissism or self-absorption, but all of them captured my interest and made me curious about how their lives would unfold. I especially liked how McCall Smith introduces philosophical questions about the nature of being, aesthetics, ethics, and politics lightly into the narrative. Although many of the references to Scottish politics were lost on me, the edition I read had a very helpful glossary of names. Overall, a very enjoyable read, and I'll look for the rest of this series. ...more 3.5 stars\u2026 I was reading 44 Scotland Street before, during and after my short stay in Edinburgh. This was an enjoyable read - entertaining without being too superficial and with well-drawn characters. I liked especially the vibrant description of Edinburgh, and I wrote down one or two names of bookshops and restaurants mentioned in the book. I usually tend to rate these stories rather with 3 stars than 4, as they are not very profound. However, I had such a great time in Edinburgh and this revie 3.5 stars\u2026 I was reading 44 Scotland Street before, during and after my short stay in Edinburgh. This was an enjoyable read - entertaining without being too superficial and with well-drawn characters. I liked especially the vibrant description of Edinburgh, and I wrote down one or two names of bookshops and restaurants mentioned in the book. I usually tend to rate these stories rather with 3 stars than 4, as they are not very profound. However, I had such a great time in Edinburgh and this review is far from being professional, therefore, I am gladly giving 4 stars! ...more I am so glad I decided to revisit 44 Scotland Street! A delightful slice of life in Edinburgh a city that I have had the pleasure of visiting. These enchanting tales of the residence of this address gives the reader a glimpse into the hearts and minds of these wonderful characters. Alexander McCall Smith is a favorite writer of mine because he understands human nature and the foibles of his fellow man. What a nice little chuckle you will get when you read of some of the events that take place o I am so glad I decided to revisit 44 Scotland Street! A delightful slice of life in Edinburgh a city that I have had the pleasure of visiting. These enchanting tales of the residence of this address gives the reader a glimpse into the hearts and minds of these wonderful characters. Alexander McCall Smith is a favorite writer of mine because he understands human nature and the foibles of his fellow man. What a nice little chuckle you will get when you read of some of the events that take place on the pages of this wonderful book. What a pleasant way to pass the time of day! ...more Alexander McCall Smith, after chatting with Armistead Maupin at a party at Amy Tan's house about serialized novels, undertook to write what is essentially an Edinburgh version of Tales of the City . 44 Scotland Street doesn't have Maupin's very sly wit, sense of zeitgeist and ability to define what is iconic in a place and time, but it's certainly a successful, if light, story of the various young and old tenants of an Edinburgh apartment house and the people in their expanding circles, and nimbl Alexander McCall Smith, after chatting with Armistead Maupin at a party at Amy Tan's house about serialized novels, undertook to write what is essentially an Edinburgh version of Tales of the City . 44 Scotland Street doesn't have Maupin's very sly wit, sense of zeitgeist and ability to define what is iconic in a place and time, but it's certainly a successful, if light, story of the various young and old tenants of an Edinburgh apartment house and the people in their expanding circles, and nimbly told. ...more 2 1/2 stars I had considered abandoning this after I was 100 pages in and NOTHING had happened yet. I regret my decision to keep reading. The writing style is fine, but THERE IS NO PLOT. There are a few disjointed stories that end abruptly, with no resolution to anything. I suppose this leaves plenty of material for the next book in the series, but I will not be reading it. Originally published as a serialized novel in The Scotsman , 44 Scotland Street is written in third-person omniscient, but shifts focus amongst several tenants in an apartment building at the title address. Overall, the characters were really one-dimensional. Bruce and Irene were particularly painful to read about, as their view of reality was so twisted and neither of them seemed to possess any redeeming qualities. It's as if McCall Smith was studying psychology while writing the series and deci Originally published as a serialized novel in The Scotsman , 44 Scotland Street is written in third-person omniscient, but shifts focus amongst several tenants in an apartment building at the title address. Overall, the characters were really one-dimensional. Bruce and Irene were particularly painful to read about, as their view of reality was so twisted and neither of them seemed to possess any redeeming qualities. It's as if McCall Smith was studying psychology while writing the series and decided to create textbook examples of several neuroses from his reading. Pat, who was apparently the protagonist of the novel, was more sympathetic, but horribly naive and I hated how the traumatic events of her \"first gap year\" were hinted at, but never revealed. I wanted to slap her multiple times because her actions were so pathetic and stupid. Seriously, if I was that dumb at 20, I hope someone would have shaken some sense in to me. I suppose that is what the two older, more worldly and experienced characters do, albeit in a much gentler way. Those two characters, Domenica and Angus, are among the most likable of the group, but they're a little too perfect. \"Big Lou\" -- a local coffee shop proprietress -- was another of the more likable characters, who I'd have been willing to read more about. Most of the minor characters, especially those with money, were fairly awful as well. Maybe I just don't \"get\" this writing style, but I did not enjoy what is supposed to be a \"joyous, charming portrait of city life and human foibles,\" etc. I read this for my book group and it wasn't awful, but I don't plan to read anything else by McCall Smith if this is representative of his style. ...more I\u2019ve only recently become acquainted with Alexander McCall Smith by way of his light detective series based in Botswana and featuring The No. 1 Ladies\u2019 Detective Agency. Now I\u2019ve met the distinctive characters who are residents of the Edinburgh apartment building at 44 Scotland Street. McCall Smith was inspired by the serialized work of Armistead Maupin, whose \u201cTales of the City\u201d captured an era in San Francisco. This collection likewise appeared in a newspaper, The Scotsman; hence the reader wi I\u2019ve only recently become acquainted with Alexander McCall Smith by way of his light detective series based in Botswana and featuring The No. 1 Ladies\u2019 Detective Agency. Now I\u2019ve met the distinctive characters who are residents of the Edinburgh apartment building at 44 Scotland Street. McCall Smith was inspired by the serialized work of Armistead Maupin, whose \u201cTales of the City\u201d captured an era in San Francisco. This collection likewise appeared in a newspaper, The Scotsman; hence the reader will be conscious that each chapter is a neat and distinct episode. McCall Smith provides a light and diversionary comedy of manners, but he is sympathetic, gentle, and intelligent. Our protagonist Pat works in an art gallery during her break from university. Matthew, the gallery owner, is kind and good natured but mostly in outer space. Pat\u2019s apartment mate, Bruce, is taken with his own good looks, and Pat fights unsuccessfully her infuriating attraction for him. Precocious little Bertie, age 5, is trying to survive his hovering mother Irene. Domenica, a mature anthropologist, is trying to save Pat from her attraction to Bruce. There\u2019s a painting that goes missing, and it\u2019s Pat\u2019s fault. Or maybe Bruce\u2019s. It might be valuable, or it might not. This is the ensemble sit-com cast as a serialized novel \u2013 but better. Much better. ...more Funny that I read this right after reading Vanity Fair. Vanity Fair is a classic that was written as a newspaper serial. I was just thinking about how nobody writes like that anymore when I opened 44 Scotland Street to read in the introduction that the author was chatting up with Amy Tan (name drop!) about that very thing! So his hometown newspaper said to him, \"write a serial\", and this was it. I loved it. I keep waffling between giving it 4 or 5 stars because I loved it so much. I loved these Funny that I read this right after reading Vanity Fair. Vanity Fair is a classic that was written as a newspaper serial. I was just thinking about how nobody writes like that anymore when I opened 44 Scotland Street to read in the introduction that the author was chatting up with Amy Tan (name drop!) about that very thing! So his hometown newspaper said to him, \"write a serial\", and this was it. I loved it. I keep waffling between giving it 4 or 5 stars because I loved it so much. I loved these characters. I loved their stories. I loved that the chapters were short (because of how it was published), but they weren't separated. They blended well and the overall story was still there. I don't always feel that way about serials. It wasn't a huge plot where Something Big Happens and the characters have Conflict and Resolution (are you reading that in a snooty voice? Because you should be. That's how I typed it. Snooty.). Rather, this is a wonderful character study. I'm so glad there are more books in the series. I'm committed to these characters and to this writing and I want more. ...more This is the first of a series (I'm not sure I'll bother listing the rest here) that first appeared, just like a Dickens novel, in a newspaper. Some find the writing episodic, but I have no problem with that. Makes it easy to pick up and put down in small bites. A saxaphone savant (if not exactly his idea; he's all of about five), a 20-something narcissist obsessed with hair products and uncertain about the undergarment for a kilt, a later-middle aged anthropologist whose widowhood... Well, there This is the first of a series (I'm not sure I'll bother listing the rest here) that first appeared, just like a Dickens novel, in a newspaper. Some find the writing episodic, but I have no problem with that. Makes it easy to pick up and put down in small bites. A saxaphone savant (if not exactly his idea; he's all of about five), a 20-something narcissist obsessed with hair products and uncertain about the undergarment for a kilt, a later-middle aged anthropologist whose widowhood... Well, there's more. ...more I am so completely charmed by this first book that I just have to read all the rest of this series immediately. I don't even know what to say except-- go read this book if you want to laugh a lot and chuckle meet so many curious and quirky characters. This book is so witty! \"Will Lyons had agreed to meet Bruce at the request of his friend Ed Black. Ed knew a colleague of Bruce's through Roddy Martine, who knew everybody of course, even if he was not absolutely sure whether he knew Bruce. There was a Crieff connection to all this. Roddy Martine had attended a party at the Crieff Hydro, which was run by the cousin of Ross Lickie, a friend of Charlie Maclean, who had been at the party and who had introduced him to Bruce, who knew Jamie Maclean, who lived not far from \"Will Lyons had agreed to meet Bruce at the request of his friend Ed Black. Ed knew a colleague of Bruce's through Roddy Martine, who knew everybody of course, even if he was not absolutely sure whether he knew Bruce. There was a Crieff connection to all this. Roddy Martine had attended a party at the Crieff Hydro, which was run by the cousin of Ross Lickie, a friend of Charlie Maclean, who had been at the party and who had introduced him to Bruce, who knew Jamie Maclean, who lived not far from Crieff. It was that close.\" The characters are fun and interesting. A wonderful bedtime (or anytime) book. ...more 44 Scotland Street. Alexander McCall Smith is absolutely a genius! The plot is fascinating and the characters are definitely believable. Bruce\u2026 The only words to describe him are: egotistical, narcissistic and self absorbed. Not to mention rude and unfeeling. To put it simply, Bruce is in love with himself. He will stand in front of his mirror and admiring himself, he puts top notch gel into his en brosse hairstyle and acts like he was made to impress. Unfortunately the women following him aroun 44 Scotland Street. Alexander McCall Smith is absolutely a genius! The plot is fascinating and the characters are definitely believable. Bruce\u2026 The only words to describe him are: egotistical, narcissistic and self absorbed. Not to mention rude and unfeeling. To put it simply, Bruce is in love with himself. He will stand in front of his mirror and admiring himself, he puts top notch gel into his en brosse hairstyle and acts like he was made to impress. Unfortunately the women following him around are doing nothing to help him overcome his faults. His words to describe himself are, \"Satisfactory, VERY Satisfactory.\" Pat\u2026 Naive, innocent and easily fooled. Pat is on her second gap year (embarrassing)? and has finally moved out into a flat with Bruce. Her first thoughts of him are, \"Fresh faced? Open? Wholesome\u2026?\"\" She seems to be very excited and she landed herself a job working in an art gallery as a receptionist for her employer. Enter Mathew. Mathew\u2026 \"One of those men who go through life not knowing what it is you want.\" Mathew is such a nice character. Sympathetic, casual and very gentlemanly like\u2026 He has a soft spot for Pat but\u2026 there is Bruce standing in the foreground. Irene and Bertie\u2026 Bertie is a five year old genius who can play the saxophone and speak Italian fluently\u2026 Does he enjoy it? To put it in his own words: \" Non me piace parlare Italiano! Non mi piace il sasofono! NO NO!\" (I don't like speaking Italian! I don't like playing the saxophone!) Irene's (The mother) answer: \"This is complete nonsense! You love your saxophone!\" Irene is a controlling, bossy and high achiever mother. Bertie is a five year old who wants to enjoy playing rugby at Watson's with Jock\u2026 his (almost) blood brother. Does this happen? Not with a mother like Irene who happens to be more interested with his physciatrist than with Bertie himself. Domenica\u2026 A woman extrodinaire! Domenica comforts Pat when she realizes that Bruce is rude and nothing at all like the \"WHOLESOME\" man she thought he was! Yes\u2026 There are many other characters in this book that should be given an honourable mention: Chris Stuart Sasha Lizzie Todd Dr. Hugo Fairbairn Ian Rankin Angus Lordie All in all this book was a delight to read and hopefully I will be able to read more of Alexander McCall Smith's books in the future! ...more I am a confirmed Alexander McCall Smith book devotee. I have followed his No.1 Ladies' Detective Agency books with Mma Precious Ramostwe and his Sunday Philosophy Club books with Isabelle Dalhousie for several years. I had tried to read a 44 Scotland Street book previously and was disappointed that I couldn't get into it. But,lo and behold, another 44 Scotland Street book on CD came through at work and I decided to give it another go. Oftentimes, listening to wonderful readers makes a world of d I am a confirmed Alexander McCall Smith book devotee. I have followed his No.1 Ladies' Detective Agency books with Mma Precious Ramostwe and his Sunday Philosophy Club books with Isabelle Dalhousie for several years. I had tried to read a 44 Scotland Street book previously and was disappointed that I couldn't get into it. But,lo and behold, another 44 Scotland Street book on CD came through at work and I decided to give it another go. Oftentimes, listening to wonderful readers makes a world of difference as they just brings the book alive with their amazing reading and acting skills, such as Robert Ian Mackenzie in this particular case. The book starts with a young Scottish woman, Pat, who is, not on her first but on her second gap year at university. She shares an apartment with some other young people at 44 Scotland Street, but two of her roommates are away at present and only one is there, the beauteous self-absorbed Bruce, he of the en-brosse hair(here is the \"modern\" world where men and women are sharing an apartment platonically. Everone has their own room.) Also living in that apartment building are a 6 year old saxophone-playing and italian-speaking boy saddled with a rather pushy and overbearing pscho-babble loving mother and a 60-plus interesting older woman with an interesting past in India. Pat finds a job at an art gallery run in a rather un-interested way by her younger boss whose father has bought him a series of businesses which failed under his poor management. Sounds like kind of heavy stuff but it is rendered most fascinating under the lively pen of McCall Smith. I love those kind of \"slice of life\" types of books. It is as the book jacket suggests \"endlessly entertaining and perceptive... filled with delightfully authentic sketches of all the archetypes of Edinburgh society.\" Couldn't have said better meself... ...more Alexander McCall Smith's books are total craaaaaaack. Seriously. They're like cotton candy with endpapers. Smith explains in the introduction that this series came about when he met Armistead Maupin , author of the Tales of the City books, at a party in San Francisco; he lamented the demise of the serial novel, and then was challenged to write his own. Since I really enjoyed the Tales of the City books [side rant:] or at least the first three; after that, Maupin apparently concluded that any fema Alexander McCall Smith's books are total craaaaaaack. Seriously. They're like cotton candy with endpapers. Smith explains in the introduction that this series came about when he met Armistead Maupin , author of the Tales of the City books, at a party in San Francisco; he lamented the demise of the serial novel, and then was challenged to write his own. Since I really enjoyed the Tales of the City books [side rant:] or at least the first three; after that, Maupin apparently concluded that any female characters who didn't decide to become hard-core lesbians\u2014including ones who had previously been bisexual; no more cock for them, either!\u2014had to instead become horrible monstrous bitches. I may have had, *cough*, a bit of a problem with that [/side rant:] I was eager to read another series following the same principles: a bunch of wacky individuals, all residing or working in the same area of Edinburgh, get mixed up in crazy shenanigans (that ensue in clever daily installments, of course). This kind of storytelling fits Smith well; even when he's not writing serially, he seems to be writing in incidents, rather than in one, smooth narrative. So in general I found this book quite enjoyable, if frothy, and I'll be looking forward to reading the next volume (the semi-appropriately-titled Espresso Tales \u2014 Latte Tales might be more accurate) as soon as the library chooses to bestow it upon me. ...more I have long loved the No 1 Ladies' Detective Agency books, there is something gentle and pleasant about them, and had at the back of my mind to some day get around to reading Alexander McCall Smith's other offerings. Particularly 44 Scotland Street because it was written as a serial for The Scotsman newspaper. A serial for a newspaper? In this day and age? Intriguing. Well a winter flu coupled with a winter storm had me home bound for the better part of a week and when I was well enough to be bor I have long loved the No 1 Ladies' Detective Agency books, there is something gentle and pleasant about them, and had at the back of my mind to some day get around to reading Alexander McCall Smith's other offerings. Particularly 44 Scotland Street because it was written as a serial for The Scotsman newspaper. A serial for a newspaper? In this day and age? Intriguing. Well a winter flu coupled with a winter storm had me home bound for the better part of a week and when I was well enough to be bored still trapped indoors I finally got around to picking up 44 Scotland Street. I am happy to report that this little volume of very short chapters (installments) about a handful of people living and interacting in a particular Edinburgh neighborhood was delicious and delightful. There are number of plots and interweaving story lines but basically this little charmer is about nothing much and everything in life all at the same time. Chapter 1 is titled \"Stuff Happens\" and the final chapter is \"Gain, Loss, Friendship, Love\" and in between were many delightful and witty, heartwarming, heartbreaking and even hilarious snippets worthy of savoring. There was also something to it that had me constantly thinking of Roald Dahl as I meandered my way through Pat's living arrangements and romantic struggles, Bruce's self admiration, the great Peploe? conundrum, the Conservative Ball (attendance: 6, a good time had by all?) and 5 year old Bertie's efforts to claim something resembling a normal childhood (really, doesn't setting fire to your dad's paper while he is reading it smack of Roald Dahl?). I greatly look forward to relishing whatever happens next. ...more I have read this book before but enjoyed again the rich characters in it. Each of the people exists in a rooming house passing each other in the hall and yet not really knowing about each other's lives. My favorite character is the little boy prodigy, Bertie, or at least his mother thinks so. He is 5 and playing the saxophone and learning to read and speak Italian. His overly involved mother has painted his bedroom pink so he will not be bound by the cultural stereotypes and would rather see him I have read this book before but enjoyed again the rich characters in it. Each of the people exists in a rooming house passing each other in the hall and yet not really knowing about each other's lives. My favorite character is the little boy prodigy, Bertie, or at least his mother thinks so. He is 5 and playing the saxophone and learning to read and speak Italian. His overly involved mother has painted his bedroom pink so he will not be bound by the cultural stereotypes and would rather see him play with dolls instead of the trains he so loves. There is something wonderfully satisfying about the way this thread plays out. Then there is the main character, Pat, who is taking her second gap year and finds herself in a flat with the narcissistic Bruce whom I wanted to strangle on most every page. She gets a job at an art gallery working for the dilettante, Matthew, who has never had to make a living, which is a good thing, since he has failed at everything he ever did. His father seems to think nothing of bailing him out and letting him start over. The main action centers around a painting in the gallery which they think may be by Samuel Peploe, but that part of the plot is just a device to hang all these wonderful character sketches on. As with all of Alexander McCall Smith's books, there is more about how the characters think and feel than a plot. This is a gentle philosophical and thoroughly entertaining book and I will read anything he has written. I am so in love with his characters. I think he has a lot in common with Charles Dickens and will be surprised if some of his characters begin to have a life of their own outside of his books. ...more Viva Edimburgo! McCall Smith con questa nuova serie riesce a catturare l'attenzione del lettore dopo poche pagine. Una scrittura fresca e con molto ritmo nonostante non sia un romanzo d'azione o avventura. Piena zeppa di rimandi all'Italia e alla nostra cultura, piena zeppa di collegamenti alla psicanalisi e la sua teoria, racconta frustrazioni, paure, ansie e modi di essere attualissimi. Una trama snella e accattivante che a me ha ricordato vagamente Ian Samson ma con meno ritmo, meno risate e Viva Edimburgo! McCall Smith con questa nuova serie riesce a catturare l'attenzione del lettore dopo poche pagine. Una scrittura fresca e con molto ritmo nonostante non sia un romanzo d'azione o avventura. Piena zeppa di rimandi all'Italia e alla nostra cultura, piena zeppa di collegamenti alla psicanalisi e la sua teoria, racconta frustrazioni, paure, ansie e modi di essere attualissimi. Una trama snella e accattivante che a me ha ricordato vagamente Ian Samson ma con meno ritmo, meno risate e pi\u00f9 sentimenti. Qualche pecca c'\u00e8 sparsa qua e la, un senso di indeterminatezza, con qualche parte del romanzo spezzata o meglio insoluta, ma pensandoci meglio, forse \u00e8 proprio questo che lo scrittore vuol far trasparire dalle sue parole. la mancanza di una vera conclusione, di una vera realizzazione da parte di tutti i personaggi. Una mancanza di realizzazione che non significa per forza aver perso la battaglia della vita, l'importante \u00e8 prendere tutto con filosofia, voltare pagina, e sperare in un futuro migliore. ...more I've been in Scotland for 4 years, then I had to leave in 2011. I never fully recovered: Edinburgh has a way to stick to you. So, although I'm a huge fan of McCall Smith's The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency saga, I put Scotland Street on hold. I was afraid to become too emotional. Sure enough, now that I closed the first volume, I'll buy some chocolate on my way home to deal with being homesick. I met the characters in this book. I walked on those streets. I peered into those art galleries on my I've been in Scotland for 4 years, then I had to leave in 2011. I never fully recovered: Edinburgh has a way to stick to you. So, although I'm a huge fan of McCall Smith's The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency saga, I put Scotland Street on hold. I was afraid to become too emotional. Sure enough, now that I closed the first volume, I'll buy some chocolate on my way home to deal with being homesick. I met the characters in this book. I walked on those streets. I peered into those art galleries on my way to the beauty parlor. I can tell, this story is a present from a Scotsman to his fellow citizens. McCall Smith's prose is as delicate as usual, sometimes witty, always a pleasure. That's it, I'm hooked: I have a new saga to follow, new friends to meet wheen I feel like taking a trip on my memory lane. ...more Someone else on Goodreads described this as 'Seinfeld in Edinburgh', ie. nothing much happens. True, but he enjoyed it very much, as did I. The gentleness and humour in the book is rather lovely, and McCall Smith totally nails the characterisations. Written as a serial in a daily newspaper, each chapter was a daily instalment, so ends with a slight hook and gives the reader much compulsion to read on. How lucky I was to read it in book form as opposed to waiting for the daily paper to get my nex Someone else on Goodreads described this as 'Seinfeld in Edinburgh', ie. nothing much happens. True, but he enjoyed it very much, as did I. The gentleness and humour in the book is rather lovely, and McCall Smith totally nails the characterisations. Written as a serial in a daily newspaper, each chapter was a daily instalment, so ends with a slight hook and gives the reader much compulsion to read on. How lucky I was to read it in book form as opposed to waiting for the daily paper to get my next fix. It was fun meeting with the different residents of 44 Scotland Street, with their foibles and such, and see snippets of their lives. I think the funniest storyline was regarding a painting (the Peploe?) that might have been painted by Samuel Peploe, the Scottish Impressionist. Will I read on in the series? Why yes, I will. I want to be charmed again. ...more<---C>Alexander McCall Smith</---C>", "Title": "44 Scotland Street"},
