{"Comments": "In general I prefer to confine the term 'Mary Sue' to fan fiction, where it belongs. But when I tell you that Maisie has purple eyes,<---M> rippling black hair</---M>, outstanding intelligence, a near-psychic empathy with her clients, and is practically perfect in every possible way & I think I may be allowed an exception. On top of all this, the author researched the First World War background for this very, very thoroughly and, oh, how it shows! Throw in a faithful Cockernee sidekick (wiv an 'eart of g In general I prefer to confine the term 'Mary Sue' to fan fiction, where it belongs. But when I tell you that Maisie has purple eyes, rippling black hair, outstanding intelligence, a near-psychic empathy with her clients, and is practically perfect in every possible way & I think I may be allowed an exception. On top of all this, the author researched the First World War background for this very, very thoroughly  and, oh, how it shows! Throw in a faithful Cockernee sidekick (wiv an 'eart of gold), a salt-of-the-earth costermonger father (also wiv an 'eart of gold), an eccentric Suffragist and her household (ALL with hearts of gold) and & I can hardly bear to say it, but a denouement that involves our heroine thwarting the bad guy by bursting into song & I'm afraid it's simply dreadful. ...more I picked up <---C>Maisie Dobbs</---C> from the library upon the rec. of my GR friend Carol, and have to say that this initial entry marks what may prove to be one of the cleverest mystery series since Dorothy Gilman brought the retired and intrepid Mrs. Pollifax to life back in the 1960s.<---F> (For more on Mrs</---F>. Pollifax, see The Unexpected Mrs. Pollifax ) Don't go into reading <+++>Maisie Dobbs</+++> with any preconceived ideas about what you'll find there. Yes, it's a mystery -- somewhat. Yes, it's a historical novel -- some I picked up <+++>Maisie Dobbs</+++> from the library upon the rec. of my GR friend Carol, and have to say that this initial entry marks what may prove to be one of the cleverest mystery series since Dorothy Gilman brought the retired and intrepid Mrs. Pollifax to life back in the 1960s. (For more on Mrs. Pollifax, see The Unexpected Mrs. Pollifax ) Don't go into reading Maisie Dobbs with any preconceived ideas about what you'll find there. Yes, it's a mystery -- somewhat. Yes, it's a historical novel -- somewhat. Yes, it's a exploration of psychological healing -- somewhat. In fact, Maisie Dobbs is one of those books that can't really be pegged and shelved in it's own confined area. The book starts in 1929, when Maisie sets up her detective practice and receives her first solo case: A man wants Maisie to find out if his wife is having an affair. After solving that, the book abruptly switches gears and goes back 19 years, to 1910, when young Maisie is just a lower class girl living with her widower, costermonger father. While Maisie is decidedly low class in the ridged class structure of pre-War Britian, she is anything but low class in her intellect. Her bankrupt father sends her into service at the home of a wealthy and sympathetic upper crust family. From here, we learn Maisie's backstory - essentially, how she came to \"be\" Maisie Dobbs, Detective. This portion takes up quite a bit of this 290+ page book, so that by the time it's over, we're back to 1929 and Maisie's intuition leads her on an offshoot of her initial case, and the resolution of some feelings Maisie has been carrying around for quite a long time. The writing is spare and somewhat simple in places, which initially put me off. However, once I got into its rhythm, I was hooked. I loved the setting (pre-and-post WWI England), and enjoyed Maisie's backstory with all it's information about being \"in service\". The ending was probably my favorite of all, but I won't tell... I eagerly await my next installment of Maisie Dobbs: to see if Winspear can keep up the novelty of her first book in the series. And oh yeah, the covers on the Penguin editions ROCK. I want them as posters, they are so evocative of the era. Excellent! ...more Is there anything more controversial at Goodreads than star rating? I think not (and yes, I think it's more controversial than porn or V-blogs). People have opinions on whether or not one should star books that weren't finished, whether one can star unread books by authors they don't like--or even do like--and then there are those that will actually argue a reviewer's rating based on the reviewer's interpretation, the infamous 'you read it wrong' offense. Here I am, deciding to stretch my reading Is there anything more controversial at Goodreads than star rating? I think not (and yes, I think it's more controversial than porn or V-blogs). People have opinions on whether or not one should star books that weren't finished, whether one can star unread books by authors they don't like--or even do like--and then there are those that will actually argue a reviewer's rating based on the reviewer's interpretation, the infamous 'you read it wrong' offense. Here I am, deciding to stretch my reading boundaries a little by giving Miss Maisie Dobbs a try: I enjoy mysteries, I love a good female lead and--hey--I'm a nurse, so why not? Well, because I am generally bored by historical fiction. But you know--stretch, right? I discovered Maisie Dobbs was both better and worse than I expected. Better, because I generally enjoyed it until the 'worse' part--a deep immersion into Maisie's past from ages thirteen to twenty-ish. Remember how I mentioned recently that there is a shortage of niceness? Not in Maisie's world. Maisie is Little Women , Nancy Drew and the intuition of Claire DeWitt wrapped up into one self-assured bottle of plucky, industrious kindness. Maisie has a benefactor who has encouraged her to set up a little detective shop, and so she rents a room and makes friends with Billy, veteran and odd-jobsman. A man makes an appointment to ask M. Dobbs to discover if his wife is cheating on him, and much like Claire DeWitt, Maisie tells him that she may not like the answers she finds--and so he must trust her to do what's right. Maise gets close to the wife, discovers the mystery of her visiting the grave of a recently deceased veteran, and uses her skills to 'accidentally' encounter the wife and forge a connection. She discovers the mystery of the veterans' home for the disfigured, coincidentally the same place her benefactor's son is planning to retreat to. Before too much more progress is made, we journey back to Maisie's youth when she first encountered her benefactor. So here's the deal: I actually liked the absolutely tropey Maisie--intelligent, book-smart, industrious, honest, and attractive--who, much like Nancy Drew, is practically perfect as well as the apple of her daddy's eye. I was vaguely interested in the obvious non-mystery, a home for disfigured veterans where men are mysteriously dying. The writing is decent, with solid character-building. But the transition to the past was awkward and continued for far, far too long to maintain any sense of suspense (perhaps helping the reader forget the solution?) and basically had little to do with anything except to build character background and show Maisie's own role in the war. I almost quit; I loaned the book to my mom in the meantime, until self-flagellation led me to finishing. It remained rather boring, in an insipid, historically romantic kind of way, using one of my absolute, very least favorite excuses for a criminal behavior and laughable denouement (and not in a good way). There was a bonus character twist that really made little to no sense. On my personal scale of enjoyment, it was a solid 'meh'--I'm just not interested in historical fiction as a rule, so you have to be an ah-maz-ing writer for me to enjoy it (hello, Connie Willis !). In my world, it's about two stars for enjoyment, veering uncomfortably close to a Did Not Finish. Yet the writing skill--if not plotting--is actually much higher. On the niceness scale, it's a solid five, and on the Mom's Scale, it was good enough to warrant checking out the next book from the library. I might even skim the next one, to see if Winspear learned some plotting. So there you go: unrated because of niceness. ...more A neighbor recommended <---A>Jacqueline Winspear</---A>\u2019s Maisie Dobbs as one of the best books she\u2019s read. The book cover boasts quotes from The New York Times (\u201cBe prepared to be astonished\u201d), NPR (\u201cA quirky literary creation\u201d), and Alexander McCall Smith (\u201c[A:] real gift\u201d). Naturally, I had high expectations. Maisie Dobbs is a detective and self-proclaimed psychologist in post-WWI London, and the novel splits its time between a case and detailing Maisie\u2019s background. Only half the book is a mystery as Mais A neighbor recommended Jacqueline Winspear\u2019s Maisie Dobbs as one of the best books she\u2019s read. The book cover boasts quotes from The New York Times (\u201cBe prepared to be astonished\u201d), NPR (\u201cA quirky literary creation\u201d), and Alexander McCall Smith (\u201c[A:] real gift\u201d). Naturally, I had high expectations. Maisie Dobbs is a detective and self-proclaimed psychologist in post-WWI London, and the novel splits its time between a case and detailing Maisie\u2019s background. Only half the book is a mystery as Maisie investigates \u201cThe Retreat\u201d where injured soldiers escape the stares of society. In the other half, Winspear recounts Maisie\u2019s past. She moves from being a greengrocer\u2019s daughter to an aristocrat\u2019s prot\u00e9g\u00e9 to a WWI nurse to a private investigator. Maisie Dobbs is almost too good to be true: brilliant and dedicated, moving seamlessly between all ranks in society. The book is well written, but the split-nature of its format backfires. Maisie is too perfect to be an appealing heroine (although a disturbing scene at the end of the book belies Maisie\u2019s perfection). And Winspear does not fully develop the mystery, so its climax borders on the ridiculous. Winspear has written several more books in the Maisie Dobbs series. Though I haven\u2019t read them, they are apparently more consistent with the genre and concentrate more on mysteries and less on Maisie\u2019s history. I will have to invest in the second novel before dismissing the series completely. ...more This is a story about a cute, clever, and plucky young woman named Maisie Dobbs. Maisie is setting up her own private investigation practice in London. The year is 1929, and everyone we meet is still coping with the effects of the world war, including Maisie. Maisie has a cute and charming way of talking with people and getting them to share their stories. Her first client is a man who thinks his wife is cheating on him. Maisie follows the woman, befriends her and learns her sad tale about a love This is a story about a cute, clever, and plucky young woman named Maisie Dobbs. Maisie is setting up her own private investigation practice in London. The year is 1929, and everyone we meet is still coping with the effects of the world war, including Maisie. Maisie has a cute and charming way of talking with people and getting them to share their stories. Her first client is a man who thinks his wife is cheating on him. Maisie follows the woman, befriends her and learns her sad tale about a loved one who was wounded in the war. Later, the man died of suspicious circumstances, so Maisie investigates a farm called The Retreat, using her charm and wits to get an inside look. The middle section of the book is a flashback to how Maisie got to be so plucky and sweet and charming. Her mother died at a young age, and Maisie had to go into service to help her father pay the bills. Luckily, Maisie's master was a kind woman who observed the girl's cleverness, and encouraged her to study and take lessons from a tutor. Eventually, Maisie earned the chance to go to college, although the war intervened. in the end, Maisie shares her own sad story of what happened to her during the war. Did I mention that Maisie is cute and charming and sweet and plucky and charming? A few friends recommended this book to me, knowing how much I enjoy charming British novels. But an odd thing happened \u2014 I thought this novel was TOO charming and precious. Maisie was TOO cute and plucky. The story was TOO predictable and bittersweet. I felt like the author was hitting me over the head with a pile of those big books that Maisie liked to study in order to emphasize how cute and plucky she was. This book is the first in a series about Maisie, and I'm not sure if I will read any more. I'm glad I finally checked out this one to see what the fuss was about, but my curiosity has been satisfied. ...more Well. This was a waste of time. I don't think there was an aspect of this book I did not hate. Starting from the holier-than-thou main character, to the non-existent mystery, to the amazing (not) resolution of the non-mystery, to the abrupt hundred pages worth of tedious flashback in the middle of the mystery; everything bothered me. So. Maisie Dobbs is a private eye. She was a housemaid once, but it turned out that she was one of nature's rare prodigies, reading Latin by candlelight. Her master Well. This was a waste of time. I don't think there was an aspect of this book I did not hate. Starting from the holier-than-thou main character, to the non-existent mystery, to the amazing (not) resolution of the non-mystery, to the abrupt hundred pages worth of tedious flashback in the middle of the mystery; everything bothered me. So. Maisie Dobbs is a private eye. She was a housemaid once, but it turned out that she was one of nature's rare prodigies, reading Latin by candlelight. Her masters then decide that she ought to be tutored, along with all her work as parlormaid. Enter Master Yoda from stage left, I mean, Maurice Blanche. He fills her mind with such gems as \"Rush into conclusions not... In the stillness, wait awhile...\" , which pop into her mind opportunely in present day when she's talking to clients. Anyhow. On to the mystery! A ladies infidelity is suspected by her husband, the lady is blameless, and Maisie spends some time giving him shit for suspecting his wife. However it leads Maisie onto a suitably creepy post-war hidey hole for army men affected by the war called The Retreat. Nothing happens. Then, there's someone else talking about the Retreat too, and Maisie decides to investigate. Cut. Flashback into Maisie's early life. Some tedious accounts of class differences. Maisie in college. Maisie as a nurse in WW I France. Maisie with Simon, a brilliant and talented young doctor who worships the ground she walks on. Cut Back. Where were we? There's hardly a set up for a mystery in this book. The half hearted attempt is cut abruptly so we have pages of Maisie backstory, for no discernable reason. By the time the story comes back to the current time, I lost any inclination of knowing what would happen. I had to finish it though. Maisie herself I thought had a border-line God complex. She instructs her first client to make her a commitment, and to his marriage. She calls herself responsible for the safety of all parties, but she makes friends with and invites confidences (even after the husband has been sent away happy) from her emotionally susceptible mark, by lying about who she is. But let's not call this unprofessional. She has dodgy methods of problem solving. She may regurgitate the Maurice Blanche homilies to herself, but she the chill down her spine makes her jump into conclusions pretty much from the start. She is never wrong though, so I suppose that doesn't matter either. As for her personal life, she behaves despicably. (view spoiler) [Simon's alive, but unaware of his surroundings because of his war wounds (I think). It's been twelve years since this happened, and heroine has not bothered to visit him. Her explanation - how scared she was about not remembering them as they were! She's a flake, true enough, but what's bad about this situation is a) how happy Simon's mother is that madam finally condescended to visit the man she supposedly loved, b) how Maisie has been so superior all through the book, with trite sayings such as \"I know about wounds, I know about disfigurement\" when she's done jack squat, and c) zero insight into any thoughts Maisie might have had about Simon because the author thought that this needed to be a secret so there would be a big reveal (shock! dramatic music!) at the end (hide spoiler) ] . The two paragraphs of lame explanations for her actions were the final nail in the coffin of this series for me. I'll re-read Agatha Christie for the nth time instead. ...more A beautifully written story of a young girl's rise from household servant to wartime field nurse to her own successful career as a private investigator during WWI-era England. This novel is so much more than just an historical mystery with a clever female sleuth. Winspear creates Maisie's story of her first professional case in such a way that with flashbacks we understand the physical and psychological scars of those who served during wartime...the sacrifices of the body, mind and heart....whic A beautifully written story of a young girl's rise from household servant to wartime field nurse to her own successful career as a private investigator during WWI-era England. This novel is so much more than just an historical mystery with a clever female sleuth. Winspear creates Maisie's story of her first professional case in such a way that with flashbacks we understand the physical and psychological scars of those who served during wartime...the sacrifices of the body, mind and heart....which has made Maisie develop a sense of purpose in life that goes beyond just solving mysteries. She has empathy for those who suffer or are in need, and this first installment of Maisie Dobbs will reveal the path that has brought her from servant to beginning her own professional business. A great beginning to a series that I can't wait to continue. 4.5 stars ...more ETA Jan 2013: quick re-read before I start the rest in the series. A little better the second time round. Clearer head, or something. But my original opinion, below, still holds. 3.5 stars I liked this, very much; I just didn't love it. I wanted to be more connected to Maisie, but felt that she slipped away before I could learn to love her. I liked the story and the back story and the way they intertwined, although I found the switching back and forth in time was handled a little awkwardly. I will ETA Jan 2013: quick re-read before I start the rest in the series. A little better the second time round. Clearer head, or something. But my original opinion, below, still holds. 3.5 stars I liked this, very much; I just didn't love it. I wanted to be more connected to Maisie, but felt that she slipped away before I could learn to love her. I liked the story and the back story and the way they intertwined, although I found the switching back and forth in time was handled a little awkwardly. I will continue the series. ...more It took me a few tries to start this book. Probably the only reason I finally read it was because I'm trying to read the books I already have, instead of adding to my ever growing pile of books to read. Maisie Dobbs is a new private eye in post WWI London, setting up shop and trying to earn a good client base in a world still getting used to the working woman outside of service. With a cunning mind, great determination, and a bit of luck and help along the way (from a supportive father and a libe It took me a few tries to start this book. Probably the only reason I finally read it was because I'm trying to read the books I already have, instead of adding to my ever growing pile of books to read. Maisie Dobbs is a new private eye in post WWI London, setting up shop and trying to earn a good client base in a world still getting used to the working woman outside of service. With a cunning mind, great determination, and a bit of luck and help along the way (from a supportive father and a liberal and open minded employer) Maisie has been able to go from a young girl in service to studying at a University to making her own way in the world. With the outbreak of WWI, and the sudden death of a friend, she is moved to put her dreams on hold to join up as a field nurse to help the boys at war. The first book in the Maisie Dobbs series; it sheds some light on what happened to Maisie in the passed during the war, while also following along as she uses everything her mentor Maurice Blanch taught her to solve the mysteries brought to her by clients or ones she discovers along the way. I found this book a bit hard to get into. A number of parts felt like filler, constantly having the character going back over what had just occurred. That is not a bad tool to use, but I felt it was used far too often. Many of the characters I felt were more of a caricature, few of them felt real, or had any real depth to them. The book starts off in 1929 as Maisie is just setting up her detective agency after her mentor retires. It shows her close relationship with her once employer Lady Rowan, and her admiration for her mentor Maurice. She is portrayed as very careful with her finances and meticulous with her work. She gets her first clients with help from Lady Rowan, and along the way of investigating she uncovered a much bigger mystery. The book then jumps back to 1910, just after Maisie has lost her mother, it follows Maisie through having to go into service to help her now savings-less father, to University and to the outbreak of WWI. It speeds through time from when she decides to leave school to help the cause as a nurse to the time she ends up on the battlefields in France. I found this portion of the book, where Maisie's background is revealed, to be very dry. It hols all of the major events in Maisie's life but didn't feel like a huge impact. Maisie felt like a robot during this time period. Except for when she herself decides use the great library without permission, she goes along doing as she is told with little emotion. Nose to the grindstone yes, but since it offered little colour to Maisie's character I lack feeling towards her. It wasn't until things really start rolling and being revealed towards the later half of the book, after it jumps back to 1929, that I actually am finally really turning pages. I found the the conclusion very interesting and did enjoy how it was all finally revealed and the path taken to get to it. It took a sleepless night to finally finish this book, and I'm not sure when or if I will be starting the second book in the Maisie Dobbs story. ...more This book just didn't work for me. Maisie Dobbs was mostly annoying and a very boring character and the story was very bland.I liked the ending, but probably not enough to want to read more books about Miss Dobbs unless anyone can convince me that they will get better. Maisie Dobbs starts out in the late 1920s, with Maisie just setting up her investigation business. It gets into the first real case, then takes a significant detour into the past to give Maisie\u2019s backstory - I\u2019d say probably half the book shows her childhood up through WWI nursing experiences. So although there\u2019s a mystery, it really felt like a WWI historical novel much of the time, along with the horrors and sadness it left behind. Once Maisie\u2019s character is fully established, it comes back to Maisie Dobbs starts out in the late 1920s, with Maisie just setting up her investigation business. It gets into the first real case, then takes a significant detour into the past to give Maisie\u2019s backstory - I\u2019d say probably half the book shows her childhood up through WWI nursing experiences. So although there\u2019s a mystery, it really felt like a WWI historical novel much of the time, along with the horrors and sadness it left behind. Once Maisie\u2019s character is fully established, it comes back to the original mystery and wraps it up quickly. The story of the past does end up being related to the mystery, so it all ties together in the end. I found the story absorbing. I really liked Maisie - she\u2019s smart and manages to work her way out of servitude using her brains and her connections. But once WWI comes into her life, the story takes a tragic turn. For some time after finishing it, I felt haunted by it. It was so sad! Usually, this would have stopped me from enjoying it, but the surrounding narrative of Maisie\u2019s life in the 1920s made me feel that this is just the beginning of Maisie\u2019s story. I have hope that she will find her way out of the grief and pain of what\u2019s behind her and be able to forge a new life. I\u2019m guessing that future installments will also focus less on her personal story and more on whatever mysteries she\u2019s investigating. One thing I found kind of weird is the way that Maisie conducts her investigations. I would have thought her brains would come into it more, but she relies on some sort of sixth sense. For example, she puts herself in the physical position of the person she\u2019s studying, and that allows her to feel what they are feeling. She uses that intuition to help her solve her cases. She also has premonitions and there\u2019s more emphasis on general intuition than facts and clues. I don\u2019t know if this will bother me going forward or not. Her mind is sharp, so I\u2019d like to see her use it as well as her hunches. For now, I know that her story affected me, and I want to see what\u2019s in store for her. Original Thoughts: I really enjoyed this, even though it was really sad in places. Review to come... ...more I really enjoyed this first book in Winspear's mystery series. Maisie Dobbs is a very intriguing and sympathetic heroine full of admirable traits. At age 13, after her mother's death, her father sends her to be a servant in the home of a kindly aristocratic family. The family sees much promise in the smart Maisie and offers to fund her education. WWI breaks out and Maisie feels called to volunteer. She goes to France as a nurse and her experiences impact her in a way that changes her life foreve I really enjoyed this first book in Winspear's mystery series. Maisie Dobbs is a very intriguing and sympathetic heroine full of admirable traits. At age 13, after her mother's death, her father sends her to be a servant in the home of a kindly aristocratic family. The family sees much promise in the smart Maisie and offers to fund her education. WWI breaks out and Maisie feels called to volunteer. She goes to France as a nurse and her experiences impact her in a way that changes her life forever. When she arrives home after the war, Maisie continues her education and ultimately opens a private investigation firm. One of her first jobs appears to be a routine infidelity case but ends up being much more and causes Maisie to revisit many of her traumatic memories of the Great War. The mystery and plot are excellently written and exciting. I like the way that the author weaves in history and flashbacks to bring interest to the plot. I am a big fan of the WWI time period, as well. Winspear's strength lies in her characters...right up my alley! ...more I recall reading this book when it was first released but, like so many other series I start, somehow this fell by the wayside. So, I decided to give it another try and really enjoyed getting re-aquainted with Miss Dobbs. In this first novel we learn about her setting up her own private detective agency, but we also learn about her back story. This novel is set during 1929 and also before, and during, WWI. The echoes of that conflict hang over this book, and the characters within its pages, as th I recall reading this book when it was first released but, like so many other series I start, somehow this fell by the wayside. So, I decided to give it another try and really enjoyed getting re-aquainted with Miss Dobbs. In this first novel we learn about her setting up her own private detective agency, but we also learn about her back story. This novel is set during 1929 and also before, and during, WWI. The echoes of that conflict hang over this book, and the characters within its pages, as though it were yesterday. Maisie\u2019s first client in the book is Christopher Davenham, who suspects that his wife, Celia, is having an affair. On investigation, Maisie discovers that she is mourning a man she loved. However, he did not die in the trenches, but in a retreat, run by an ex-army officer who offers a place for the injured and scarred to live without being stared at. As the book progresses, this storyline intersects with Maisie\u2019s own back story. We discover that she started life as a servant at the house of Lady Rowan; whose only son James is intending to relinquish both title and wealth to go to the same retreat. Gradually, we learn how Maisie\u2019s intelligence was recognised by Lady Rowan, who encouraged her to gain an education; how the war intervened and how Maisie has reached the point in her life that she has by the time we meet her. With Maisie feeling something is really wrong at the Retreat, she sets out to investigate, with Lady Rowan\u2019s approval. This really does set the scene for what became a long running series. I look forward to continuing these books and am really glad I gave this another try. Maisie is an interesting character and this novel covers so much \u2013 from a touching love story, to life below stairs, early university education for women, nursing during the first world war and more. Somehow, the author holds all the threads of the storyline together and you are left with a satisfying novel and a main character you have come to care about. ...more I really enjoyed this introduction to Maisie Dobbs, one of the most interesting female PIs I've come across to date. Born into a working class family where her father has a fruit and vegetable delivery business, Maisie dreams of becoming a teacher. However after her mother dies her father reluctantly sends her into service as a housemaid with Lord and Lady Compton. After discovering Maisie reading in the library in the middle of the night, Lady Comptom takes Maisie under her wing and arranges tu I really enjoyed this introduction to Maisie Dobbs, one of the most interesting female PIs I've come across to date. Born into a working class family where her father has a fruit and vegetable delivery business, Maisie dreams of becoming a teacher. However after her mother dies her father reluctantly sends her into service as a housemaid with Lord and Lady Compton. After discovering Maisie reading in the library in the middle of the night, Lady Comptom takes Maisie under her wing and arranges tutoring for her in her spare time with her good friend Dr Maurice Blanche, who amongst other things is a private detective. The novel is set in 1929 when Maisie is setting up her own detective agency after taking over from Maurice and embarking on solving her first mystery. It also tells us the story of Maisie's journey to become a detective, from before the war when she became a student at Cambridge to her enlistment as a WWI nurse. Maisie's first case leads her to a mystery involving returned soldiers suffering from hideous facial damage, something she saw too much of during her time as a nurse at a clearing station. Part romance, part mystery, part social commentary this was a very satisfying start to this series. ...more I wanted to like this, because I found the premise and the setting very interesting. These mysteries feature a female private detective, a veteran WWI nurse working in London in 1929. This first book is heavily concerned with the first World War and its veterans. But the writing, while I can't point to any specific problem, left me a bit cold. The protagonist Maisie also rubbed me the wrong way. I don't like that she feels it mandatory to provide psychological counseling to her clients, or the wa I wanted to like this, because I found the premise and the setting very interesting. These mysteries feature a female private detective, a veteran WWI nurse working in London in 1929. This first book is heavily concerned with the first World War and its veterans. But the writing, while I can't point to any specific problem, left me a bit cold. The protagonist Maisie also rubbed me the wrong way. I don't like that she feels it mandatory to provide psychological counseling to her clients, or the way she repeatedly recalls precious bits of wisdom from her mentor (\"Allow grief room to air itself... be judicious in using the body to comfort another, for you may extinguish the freedom that the person feels to be able to share a sadness\"). I also didn't buy the way Maisie can figure out what another person is feeling by mimicking his body posture. I didn't find this compelling enough to continue with the series. ...more MAISIE DOBBS (Historical Novel/Mystery) \u2013 Okay Jacqueline Winspear \u2013 1st book Penguin Books, 2003 \u2013 Trade Paperback Set in England between 1910 and 1929 is the story of Maisie who goes from being the daughter of a fruit-and-vegetable man, to the in-between maid of wealthy aristocrats where she receives special tutoring, on to college and then serving as a Nurse in France during WWI and, finally, setting up an investigative service where she is asked to find out about \u201cThe Retreat,\u201d a home for young MAISIE DOBBS (Historical Novel/Mystery) \u2013 Okay Jacqueline Winspear \u2013 1st book Penguin Books, 2003 \u2013 Trade Paperback Set in England between 1910 and 1929 is the story of Maisie who goes from being the daughter of a fruit-and-vegetable man, to the in-between maid of wealthy aristocrats where she receives special tutoring, on to college and then serving as a Nurse in France during WWI and, finally, setting up an investigative service where she is asked to find out about \u201cThe Retreat,\u201d a home for young men severely injured during the War. *** This is primarily a background novel about Maisie who is, by the way, precognitive. She is also very taken with herself and, to me, cruel to one she says she loves. The far more interesting character is Billy, who plays a secondary role. The story of the men who fought in WWI is, by far, the strongest and most poignant part of the story. The actual mystery is almost incidental to the story and relies on information you are unaware she obtained through Billy\u2019s willingness to be the legman, and Maisie\u2019s intuitive powers. Although there were parts of the book by which I was moved, I was disappointed overall. I\u2019ve ordered the next book but It will need to be significantly stronger for me to continue with this series. ...more I've enjoyed all four books to date in the Maisie Dobbs series. Winspear is meticulous about doing her homework about the period in question (World War I and its aftermath), and the heroine, Maisie is muy simp\u00e1tica. That said, not all four books are of equal quality. For my taste, this one (#1) is the best of the bunch, with #4 (Messenger of Truth) close on its heels. The plot to #2 was a bit too predictable, while #3 suffers from the opposite flaw - too many convoluted subplots, with a little to I've enjoyed all four books to date in the Maisie Dobbs series. Winspear is meticulous about doing her homework about the period in question (World War I and its aftermath), and the heroine, Maisie is muy simp\u00e1tica. That said, not all four books are of equal quality. For my taste, this one (#1) is the best of the bunch, with #4 (Messenger of Truth) close on its heels. The plot to #2 was a bit too predictable, while #3 suffers from the opposite flaw - too many convoluted subplots, with a little too much reliance on the deus ex machina to help resolve them. However, these are minor quibbles about a series which is overall very enjoyable. A further quibble - here we are at the end of 4 books already, and the ongoing celibacy of the heroine is starting to bother me. To put it crudely, Ms Winspear, Maisie deserves to get laid already. And soon. ...more I got about 2/3 of the way through this audiobook and just couldn't take it anymore. Maisie is the flattest character I have read in a long time, and in fact I can't even think of a flatter character. She is a one-dimensional, and oh too good to be true, character doing all the \"right\" things, I just couldn't listen to it anymore. Some of the book's critics have compared her to Nancy Drew; well I read all of the Nancy Drew books and Maisie Dobbs is no Nancy Drew, she could only hope to have 1/2 I got about 2/3 of the way through this audiobook and just couldn't take it anymore. Maisie is the flattest character I have read in a long time, and in fact I can't even think of a flatter character. She is a one-dimensional, and oh too good to be true, character doing all the \"right\" things, I just couldn't listen to it anymore. Some of the book's critics have compared her to Nancy Drew; well I read all of the Nancy Drew books and Maisie Dobbs is no Nancy Drew, she could only hope to have 1/2 of Nancy Drew's spunk. ...more Having never read Jacqueline Winspear before, I came to this book with no expectations, but having read it, I can see why it won various Best First Novel awards, and I look forward to reading more in the Maisie Dobbs series, altho I'm not sure the others can hold the emotional impact of this one. This was not a happy book, but like A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, it has that 'rising-above-what-life-dealt you' aspect. Maisie was a poor girl in service who caught the attention of Lady Rowan and Maurice Having never read Jacqueline Winspear before, I came to this book with no expectations, but having read it, I can see why it won various Best First Novel awards, and I look forward to reading more in the Maisie Dobbs series, altho I'm not sure the others can hold the emotional impact of this one. This was not a happy book, but like A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, it has that 'rising-above-what-life-dealt you' aspect. Maisie was a poor girl in service who caught the attention of Lady Rowan and Maurice Blanche, who helped get her into university, (view spoiler) [where she was studying when her friend Enid was killed in an explosion at the munitions plant where she worked (hide spoiler) ] . Maisie took her friend's advice to 'do something' and enlisted in the nurse's corp (with forged papers). This story is told through Maisie's feelings and experiences in WWI and the years following. As a survivor of a serious head injury, Maisie has much empathy for all those who survived, many in much worse condition, whether their injuries were visible or not. This story gets very much into both the physical and psychological scars of those who survived the war, and leads into the cases she follows as an investigator. It will be interesting to see whether this same aspect follows into other books in the series. ...more The only thing I didn't care for with this book is that Winspear started with the mystery, then gave Maisie's back story for the second third of the book, then went back to the mystery. I loved the setting (England and France during and just after World War I) and the odd little insightful observations on the psychology of the mind. The character of Maisie Dobbs completely won me over. An intelligent woman from the lower class making her mark on the world. Winspear didn't allow Maisie to be a ma The only thing I didn't care for with this book is that Winspear started with the mystery, then gave Maisie's back story for the second third of the book, then went back to the mystery. I loved the setting (England and France during and just after World War I) and the odd little insightful observations on the psychology of the mind. The character of Maisie Dobbs completely won me over. An intelligent woman from the lower class making her mark on the world. Winspear didn't allow Maisie to be a martyr, either. I loved that other female characters would call Maisie out when she was wearing her difficult life as a badge of honor. The subject matter was pretty intense, but the writing was somehow light. Maybe just light compared to the last book I read? Either way, very enjoyable. ...more Maisie Dobbs is one of those easy to love kind of characters. She is a brilliant young housemaid who is discovered by her British aristocratic employer whose patronage leads her to Cambridge and beyond. However, WWI breaks out and things happen which will change the course and perspective of her life. The first of this series is in part a synopsis of her life and how she is to eventually become a private investigator and in part a mystery to be uncovered all dealing and interconnected with the w Maisie Dobbs is one of those easy to love kind of characters. She is a brilliant young housemaid who is discovered by her British aristocratic employer whose patronage leads her to Cambridge and beyond. However, WWI breaks out and things happen which will change the course and perspective of her life. The first of this series is in part a synopsis of her life and how she is to eventually become a private investigator and in part a mystery to be uncovered all dealing and interconnected with the war. I listened to this one and enjoyed \"hearing\" Maisie's voice. I will continue with the series. ...more First book in a mystery series featuring a female detective and set in 1920s England. There were alot of chapters devoted to Masie's background story, with the mysteries placed at the begining and end parts of the book. The sections about Maisie's time as a field nurse during World War I were especially well-written. Great character development, but a bit weak on the mystery parts. Hopefully the next book will show improvement there. A friend turned me on to the Maisie Dobbs series. I recommend that you read them in sequence. I enjoyed the historical references about World War I, which is a war that many of us today could not understand the horrific conditions that soldiers and nurses, in particular, endured in the trenches. Talk about post traumatic stress! The mysteries are interesting as they involve the human pysche. A must read. MAURICE: \"Look, Rowan, it's our new friend, Maisie! ROWAN: \"What's that name again? I forgot.\" MAISIE: \"Welllllllllllll... The name's Maisie D., And I rock the telly! I'm half-Joe Camel And a third Fonzarelli! I'm the kung fu hippie From Gangsta City! I'm a rappin' surfer, You're the fool I pity!\" ROWAN: \"Ooh, Maisie is one outrageous dudette!\" MAURICE: \"She's totally in my face!\" This was recommended by a friend and I have to say that I am loving it. I cry in all the wrong places - it's the happy parts of the book that make me cry. It makes me realize that I live an easy life. Book on CD narrated by Rita Barrington This is the first in a series featuring a former housemaid and Army Nurse. The book begins in 1929, and Maisie Dobbs has opened her own private investigation agency. Her first case is a man who believes his wife is unfaithful. Maisie gets to the truth quickly, but it leads to some painful memories. I like Maisie and the supporting characters who will, no doubt, make appearances in subsequent books in this cozy mystery series. But this first book spent way to Book on CD narrated by Rita Barrington This is the first in a series featuring a former housemaid and Army Nurse. The book begins in 1929, and Maisie Dobbs has opened her own private investigation agency. Her first case is a man who believes his wife is unfaithful. Maisie gets to the truth quickly, but it leads to some painful memories. I like Maisie and the supporting characters who will, no doubt, make appearances in subsequent books in this cozy mystery series. But this first book spent way too much time in the past, and not nearly enough time on the actual mystery. And I don\u2019t mean the man who suspects his wife; the real mystery doesn\u2019t come up until Chapter 21! I can see why so many people like the series. The setting, the period, and the characters lend a feeling of the wonderful black-and-white movies of the \u201830s. While I was disappointed in this book \u2013 I read mysteries, even cozy mysteries, for the plots \u2013 I think I\u2019d be willing to try another because of the characters, setting and period. Rita Barrington does a very good job voicing the audio version of this book. Her pacing is good and her skill as a voice artist breathes life into Winspear\u2019s characters. ...more I hated this book so much. And whenever I hate an audiobook I have to wonder how much of that is due to the narrator and how much blame should be placed on the text. I'm not sure it matters in this case. Maisie Dobbs is flawless. Jaqueline Winspear should have just called her Mary Sue. She's born into the lower class but has excelled despite her humble upbringing. She has extraordinary talents to get people to open up to and trust her. It's in her eyes, you see. And even as a baby there was some I hated this book so much. And whenever I hate an audiobook I have to wonder how much of that is due to the narrator and how much blame should be placed on the text. I'm not sure it matters in this case. Maisie Dobbs is flawless. Jaqueline Winspear should have just called her Mary Sue. She's born into the lower class but has excelled despite her humble upbringing. She has extraordinary talents to get people to open up to and trust her. It's in her eyes, you see. And even as a baby there was something in her eyes that was powerful and unnerving for people to see. When she leaves her father to take residence and work into the house of a great lady, she's instantly likable to everyone she meets. She finishes all her housework and then wakes at 3 in the morning to sneak into the library and read books. When she can't understand the books in Latin, she is able to teach herself Latin! Magically! All by herself! Of course, she's caught in the library and should be dismissed for such a presumptuous act, but instead she's given private lessons at the lady's expense, while also being able to finish all her work. People start to get jealous of our heroine, because of course they do, but as luck would have it there's an opening at another good home, where she can work and study. She then gets into Cambridge and her benefactress, Lady Rowen, is happy to pay. But war is a reality even Maisie Dobbs cannot escape, so after a brief and unnerving run-in with a former co-worker (who, SPOILER ALERT, dies that night making bombs for the war) who basically guilts her into service, she puts Cambridge on hiatus to serve her country as a nurse... Blah, blah, blah. But the problem with Maisie Dobbs is she's so unlikable. Like, she's actually the worst. And there's no escaping her. But the protagonist is not the only issue with this work. The dialogue is clunky and stilted, the narrative is clogged down with unnecessary and cumbersome details (do I really need a full explanation on how to use the car?), there's way too much forced sentimentality (I kept rolling my eyes at these, particularly when Frank Dobbs, Maisie's father, is praying to his dead wife about meeting Maisie's boyfriend). Also, this book is not really a mystery. Two-thirds of the book deal with the history of the unlikable Maisie Dobbs. There have not been too many books I've hated to this extent. I won't be reading the rest of the series. ...more It\u2019s so awesome to have a female detective during World War I \u2013 and one who\u2019s solving exciting, active cases while building her career from the ground up! This book is exciting, thrilling, and a whole lot of fun. 2.5 stars for the book; 3 stars for this audiobook edition This really wasn't a mystery although an investigation was involved. That would have been okay but over half the book is an extended flashback to Maisie's background -- it does loosely tie in but wasn't really necessary (except to turn a short story/novella into a full book). I liked the way the situation at the (view spoiler) [veteran's Retreat was resolved. Although it was obvious that the guy running it was responsible for the death of 2.5 stars for the book; 3 stars for this audiobook edition This really wasn't a mystery although an investigation was involved. That would have been okay but over half the book is an extended flashback to Maisie's background -- it does loosely tie in but wasn't really necessary (except to turn a short story/novella into a full book). I liked the way the situation at the (view spoiler) [veteran's Retreat was resolved. Although it was obvious that the guy running it was responsible for the death of Vincent & others, I had thought that the guy doing it to scam the money. (hide spoiler) ] Things that bugged me: -Maisie's reliance on her intuition/paranormal ESP -her ability to be able to completely understand the emotional state of others by mimicking their body language -the fact that her father is constantly referred to by his full name (was Winspear afraid we would forget who he was? It was always \"Frankie Dobbs came to the door,\" never \"Her father came to the door\" or \"Frankie came to the door.\") Things I liked: -the historical fiction (both the \"present\" of 1929 and the WW1 parts) -Maisie's caretaker & former patient Billy Beale -Rita Barrington's narration, especially when she sang! I would say it is a good historical fiction story but not a good mystery. Hopefully, now that all this background has been covered, the other books in the series will be more mystery-oriented. ...more This is the first of the Maisie Dobbs series and was a good introduction to her back story. Maisie started life as a servant in Edwardian London, but her benevolent employers noticed and nurtured her exceptional intelligence and, under the guidance of her mentor, Maurice Blanche, she won a place at Girton College, Cambridge. She broke off her studies to go to France as a nurse in the First World War. We meet her now in 1929. Maisie has set herself up as a private investigator and this is one of h This is the first of the Maisie Dobbs series and was a good introduction to her back story. Maisie started life as a servant in Edwardian London, but her benevolent employers noticed and nurtured her exceptional intelligence and, under the guidance of her mentor, Maurice Blanche, she won a place at Girton College, Cambridge. She broke off her studies to go to France as a nurse in the First World War. We meet her now in 1929. Maisie has set herself up as a private investigator and this is one of her first cases. It involves a place called The Retreat, where badly injured ex-soldiers from the Great War can escape from the world. But strange things are happening there.... And Maisie has to face up to some traumatic events from her own past. At first I found the characters a bit wooden. I'm not sure many if any experienced the social mobility that Maisie enjoyed. And the working class characters - Enid, Billy, Maisie's father - were all a bit too 'Gor Blimy' cockney characatures. But overall, I enjoyed the novel - it was a good entertaining romp, not to be taken too seriously, and I look forward to reading the next in the series soon. ...more", "Title": "Maisie Dobbs"},
