{"Comments": "4.5 stars It takes a lot to interest me in starting an adult urban fantasy series these days, so I was a bit hesitant when <+++>Written in Red</+++> landed on my doorstep. This turned out to be a happy surprise, however, because it ended up being a fantastic read. <---C>Meg Corbyn</---C> is on the run. As a cassandra sangue ,<---M> or blood prophet</---M>, she is able to see the future when cuts are made on her skin. This is a painful process in many ways, and she's desperate to free herself from those who have been profiting from he 4.5 stars It takes a lot to interest me in starting an adult urban fantasy series these days, so I was a bit hesitant when <+++>Written in Red</+++> landed on my doorstep. This turned out to be a happy surprise, however, because it ended up being a fantastic read.<---F> Meg Corbyn is on the run</---F>. As a cassandra sangue , or blood prophet, she is able to see the future when cuts are made on her skin. This is a painful process in many ways, and she's desperate to free herself from those who have been profiting from her gift her whole life. She soon encounters Simon Wolfgard, a snarly, suspicious shapeshifter who takes her under his wing despite his better judgment. What I loved: I liked Meg as a protagonist, and her attempts to fit into her new surroundings were well-written, particularly the subplot involving Simon's panicked, endearing nephew Sam. The secondary character are distinct and memorable, particularly the reticent Tess, who just might be more than she appears. Simon is fiercely protective of those he holds dear. And there are short but thrilling action scenes with spectacularly awesome deaths. I admit to being a little bloodthirsty, but really--I was wriggling on the edge of my seat as I was reading some of those scenes! This book also has one of the most interesting depictions of werewolf culture that I've ever read. The way they interact with each other, the hierarchy, the thought patterns and behavior impulses--all these were well-thought out and integrated into the story, and were both a little scary and endearing in turn. These shifters are primed for action and much more in touch with their animal side than their human one. \"You want us to save any meat for you?\" Blair asked. He wasn't human. Would never be human. \"I want the heart. I'll come by for it later.\" When Meg was asleep. But these wolves also aren't above some creature comforts now and then, and can also be coaxed with cookies. :D A few things that could have been a little better: the villains could have been more complex. The strutting, on-the-make Asia Crane appears often, and yet she's more of an annoyance than a real threat. After such a long build-up, the climax might've been more drawn out. Meg's blood prophecies are pretty cool, so I would have enjoyed seeing more of that. And that cover--oh sweet mercy, that cover should be so much stronger. I enjoyed this book so much, however, that those things didn't even matter in the end when there's great world-building, humorous dialogue, and genuinely touching moments here and there. I also liked that the book didn't fall into predictable PNR/UF patterns of relationship behavior between Meg and Simon, even though there's clearly an attraction. The way they get to know each other happens gradually, and it's going to be so interesting to see where their story goes in the next installment. All in all, a strong start to a great series. If you're a YA reader who would like to try more adult crossover titles, this might work for you as long as you know it's not written in a wham-bam instant gratification kind of way. And if you're an urban fantasy fan, you have to check this out. I loved it--I hope you will, too! This review also appears in The Midnight Garden . An advance copy was provided by the publisher. ...more I almost gave this sucker a five star. Meg Corbyn escapes her controller, who uses her abilities as a blood prophet aka cassandra sangue to his gain (<---B>when her skin is cut she has prophesies</---B>). He had kept her completely sheltered from the world. so when she wants a job with the \"Others\" she has a whole lot to learn about them and other humans. She is almost child like in her outlook of the world. Then the Others..this is world building frigging extraordinaire. Look I used a big word!! The Others co I almost gave this sucker a five star. Meg Corbyn escapes her controller, who uses her abilities as a blood prophet aka cassandra sangue to his gain (when her skin is cut she has prophesies). He had kept her completely sheltered from the world. so when she wants a job with the \"Others\" she has a whole lot to learn about them and other humans. She is almost child like in her outlook of the world. Then the Others..this is world building frigging extraordinaire. Look I used a big word!! The Others co-exist with humans. Well partially, there is no sparkly ass vampires in this world. No, to the werewolves that you wanna bang: These wolves are the big bad type..not the pissy little boy ones. Well, I might want to bang them. These creatures don't mind eating you. Steal from them? They will eat your hand off. These are creatures done right. Plus they have some other interesting individuals living among them. Elementals that control the weather and you DO NOT want to piss off and Tess. In this book you get a taste of Tess but you never really get the whole gist of what she is. (The vamps and wolves are scared of her-that's enough to make me want to be her) Then get this: There is no romance. No Mary-Sue: This book is just pure story. This book doesn't move very fast at first, slowly building up to an ending that had me turning pages so fast my eyes couldn't keep up. I'm so glad I have the next in the series ready to read. I would have to say the only thing that bugged me was the made up names for the days of the week, but it wasn't distracting enough that I didn't love this book. ...more Real rating: 2.5 Let me start this bad boy off by saying that I wanted to love this book. I bought it a while ago when searching for new fantasy and everyone across the board said it was lovely and I mean, really, who can deny a book called Written in Red? And the book and I started out pretty well. The world building was good, the characters I could get behind, and the writing is solid and at times, lovely. Then it went south, pretty fast. Have you ever liked something until you noticed a flaw? I Real rating: 2.5 Let me start this bad boy off by saying that I wanted to love this book. I bought it a while ago when searching for new fantasy and everyone across the board said it was lovely and I mean, really, who can deny a book called Written in Red? And the book and I started out pretty well. The world building was good, the characters I could get behind, and the writing is solid and at times, lovely. Then it went south, pretty fast. Have you ever liked something until you noticed a flaw? It's like that one scene in The Two Towers with Pippin. He has his hands bound, then two minutes later for no reason, he has his hands unbound. It's a great scene, but now I can't watch that scene without noticing that and thinking that maybe the film editors just decided 'Fuck all' that day. It makes me cringe because it's a flaw in an otherwise great series. I noticed the flaws about 40% in this book. Through no fault of the book's own, really. My hubby and I were walking to a basketball game (Our Arizona Wildcats are doing really well) and were talking about books and what we were reading. He's in a R.A. Salvatore book and I was 40% in this book. Naturally, his question was 'What's it about?' Me: It's about a girl who can cut herself and see the future and she ends up with this group of shifters called 'Others.' Hubby: Really? That's their name? Others? Me: Yeah, well, I mean they're other than human. So the girl was pretty much being held captive and then she escaped into the group of Others and is hiding there. Her skin is pretty legit expensive because she can see the future. Hubby: So what's happening with the Others then? (He's still snickering about the name.) Me: Well, she got a job delivering mail and is delivering mail. There's people after her too. Hubby: Have they shown up? Me: No, well, they're talked about. But the Others are protecting the chick, Meg, and no one messes with the Others. Hubby: Why are the protecting Meg? Me: They like her because...um...she delivers the mail. Hubby: *confused face* And that's when I started to realize that everyone loved Meg for no apparent reason and there was no plot happening. It was all Meg delivering mail. I think I had realized that Meg was loved beforehand for no reason but I was willing to push it aside because things were going to happen. Well, for 90% of this book, I can safely say that most of this book is people falling in love with Meg for no apparent reason and her delivering mail. I mean, I really really really hate throwing the word Mary-Sue around but.....I'm going to have to right now. Because seriously. Werewolf that dislikes humans? Loves Meg. Vampire that dislikes EVERYONE? Loves Meg. Werewolf that will not come out of a cage for any reason, even kin? Well, he's gotta get out of that cage for Meg. By the last 10%, you know when we should be getting to the climax, we FINALLY get to see some plot in action. And it's boring. It's predictable. I mean, was anyone shocked by what Tess was? Anyone shocked at Asia? At the stupid henchmen? At what the Others could do? At the realization for the poison? I wasn't. Also, this is supposed to be a series, yeah? So what happens when you make one species SUPREMELY overmatched for the other? The reasoning for keeping humans (we invent shit, yo) is asinine because the Others don't even LIKE those things. While I liked the writing and the book had me engaged until about halfway through, I had to wait too long for action and by the end, I had no fuck to give. Meg is just a ridiculously special snowflake Mary-Sue and I cannot handle it. ...more 4.5 stars Wow. Ok, looking at the ratings and reviews, this is very much a love-it-or-hate-it kind of book. As in, some of my friends hated it so much they couldn't even finish... Me, on the other hand? Ohmygod! I haven't guzzled a book down this fast in a long time! I've already ordered the next one from my library, and I'm looking forward to it more than I have anything in recent memory. BUT. As a fair warning, I would encourage anyone thinking of buying this one to look at some of the other revie 4.5 stars Wow. Ok, looking at the ratings and reviews, this is very much a love-it-or-hate-it kind of book. As in, some of my friends hated it so much they couldn't even finish... Me, on the other hand? Ohmygod! I haven't guzzled a book down this fast in a long time! I've already ordered the next one from my library, and I'm looking forward to it more than I have anything in recent memory. BUT. As a fair warning, I would encourage anyone thinking of buying this one to look at some of the other reviews. Some of my friends complained that there was too much extraneous detail about Meg's everyday life, schedule, etc., and that it wore on them quite a bit. Now, normally, too much of any sort of words or details that don't move the plot forward, will kill a story for me. I'm extremely action oriented when it comes to books, but for some reason I didn't notice this particular complaint. Which leads me to believe that it will come down to each person's individual experience with this one, because the opinions are varying wildly. Another complaint was that Meg was a milquetoast, but I really liked her! And Simon! I loved that the Others weren't nice . That they weren't just humans under their monster skin. Shit! They were scary as fuck... And...I don't know. This story just GRABBED me by the balls! It's set in our time, and everything is recognizable, but it's an alternate earth where monsters live among the humans. They're the alpha predators, and we know it. And the truce between the humans and the Others is precarious at best. Meg is a human (sorta) who ends up running to a compound/city run by Others, in order to escape her situation in life. And she ends up turning everyone and everything on its ear in the process. I don't want to say anything else, but if you're interested in a new urban fantasy series, I personally think this one is really fantastic! Cheers! ...more I know, I know , but the details, guys! All. The. Fucking. DETAILS. They destroyed me. How do people deal with this?! \"Getting to the outside door to open it was a problem because she couldn't figure out how the short left end of the counter opened to let someone into the main part of the room. So she got the stool from the sorting room and used it to climb over the counter. She turned the simple lock to the open position and then realized the simple lock was augmented by a heavy-duty dead bolt tha I know, I know , but the details, guys! All. The. Fucking. DETAILS. They destroyed me. How do people deal with this?! \"Getting to the outside door to open it was a problem because she couldn't figure out how the short left end of the counter opened to let someone into the main part of the room. So she got the stool from the sorting room and used it to climb over the counter. She turned the simple lock to the open position and then realized the simple lock was augmented by a heavy-duty dead bolt that required a key - which might not be on the key ring she'd left in the sorting room.\" 1) MY EYES! 2) The POINT?! Have you heard about the POINT?! The point is important - NO, the point is ESSENTIAL. Stop forgetting the point! Or I'll BITE. And be assured that I don't need to be a werewolf to do it. I just can't do this, okay? I don't need to know every fucking detail and if the character wants to pee and where the bathroom is and - Oh my GOSH. OH! And the curriculum of the characters *discreetly* incorporated? *snorts* THEY DROVE ME NUTS! Like THANK YOU for these entire paragraphs of infodump, Asia. WOOT! I'm so interested! Not. This is so very long and tedious. 150 pages in, and I can't be bothered to read another one. Aw hell. I think <---A>Anne Bishop</---A> is not for me. Moving on. For more of my reviews, please visit: ...more Remember how I said Half-Off Ragnarok was like sugary breakfast cereal? This is sheer milk chocolate candy addictiveness\u2013the M&M kind\u2013where you think \u201csure, I\u2019ll have a couple,\u201d and then it\u2019s a couple more, and then just a few more, and suddenly the bag is half gone. Written in Red is melt-in-your-mouth goodness targeted squarely at the urban fantasy-paranormal fan whose appeal is intensified by a couple of surprising features. It was so very readable, going down exactly like those M&Ms; Remember how I said Half-Off Ragnarok was like sugary breakfast cereal? This is sheer milk chocolate candy addictiveness\u2013the M&M kind\u2013where you think \u201csure, I\u2019ll have a couple,\u201d and then it\u2019s a couple more, and then just a few more, and suddenly the bag is half gone. Written in Red is melt-in-your-mouth goodness targeted squarely at the urban fantasy-paranormal fan whose appeal is intensified by a couple of surprising features. It was so very readable, going down exactly like those M&Ms; before I knew it, it was 3 am and I was almost done. Kudos, Bishop, kudos. A brief prologue orients the reader to the history of the Others, the indigenous spirits of the world, and of humans. At creation, humans were given isolation to learn and grow, but as they spread throughout the world, they encountered the Others. Humans and Others skirmished, with humans largely on the losing side as the Others control natural resources. Currently, they have forged an uneasy peace, with the Others maintaining compounds in some larger human towns and cities, much like diplomatic enclaves. The first chapter starts in the city of Lakeland, with Meg on the run during a snowy night. She sees a sign at the Other compound requesting applications for a human liaison, and realizes this could mean freedom from her prior life, as human law doesn\u2019t apply in Other territory. Samuel, dominant wolf and leader of the compound, is vaguely troubled by Meg but gives her the job\u2013after all, they could always eat her. Quickly installed in the Liaison\u2019s apartment, Meg soon begins learning about the Others\u2026as well as herself. Interwoven with Meg\u2019s story, the narrative also follows Asia, a human woman scheming to learn more about Samuel and the Others; and Lt. Montgomery, a recently transferred police officer who takes on the role of ambassador for the department with the Others. The creation of a supernatural/mystical creature dominant world is one of the most interesting aspects of Bishop\u2019s world-building. I found myself fascinated by the idea of an alternate-history universe where we have many of the same things (cars, sneakers, bagels, chick-flicks), the same rough geographic layout (the Atlantik Ocean, the Great Lakes) but with the threat of the Others looming in the everyday background. For instance, it isn\u2019t long before Monty learns that the the legend of the Drowned City is actually true\u2013a human uprising in the area was punished by a massive flood. Characterization was acceptable, if rather standard for the genre. Because of Meg\u2019s ability to make predictions through cutting herself, she had a heavily circumscribed upbringing that prevented exposure to the outside world. Thus we have the standard naive young woman who possesses \u2018book\u2019 knowledge without \u2018street\u2019 knowledge with a highly valuable (magical) skill-set. Bishop\u2019s choice to use blood prophecy was inspired, particularly as \u2018cutting\u2019 is a taboo real-world issue. Meg does develop as she struggles with agency, particularly as she starts to understand more about her own abilities. Likewise, the elemental spirits were well conceptualized, with a sense of indifference to consequences and a selfish focus on their own interests. Tess was one of my favorites of the Others, with her moody hair and mysterious identity. However, Samuel mostly seemed angry and conflicted, and rarely gave the sense of a confident, focused personality that one might expect as leader of a large, dynamic group. Likewise, while the vampires initially gave a feel of spine-chilling fearfulness, any efforts in that direction were completely undermined when one of them asked Meg is it was \u201cthat time of the month?\u201d Truly, by the end, they did seem a little like television vampires, perhaps because of their own obsession watching it. The two other narrative viewpoints of Monty and Asia were also very straightforward. The police officer might as well have been called Trueheart, and Asia was a one-note scheming narcissist. Actually, what has been perplexing me is that in the wrong mood, I might have easily hated this book. The language is relatively unsophisticated and dialogue-focused. The plot turned out to be predictable\u2013my tension reading was out of concern that Bishop, as a writer new to me, might come up with unpleasant surprises, but there weren\u2019t any. I could probably make a couple of educated guesses at the next book as well. There\u2019s also the larger issue of Samuel\u2019s tendency towards violence, anger and possessiveness. I think he comes off as more combative narcissist than \u2018wolf,\u2019 and more disturbed human than \u2018Other,\u2019 no matter how many times he mentions the need to be in his \u201cother skin.\u201d Gender, identity and sexuality are all very straight (literally), with Meg and Tess the only unknowns in the story. Plotwise, Bishop is clearly setting up the beginnings of a romance, but not until Meg learns her own dominance. And Meg is one marvelous, Speshul Snowflake. To meet her is to love her, apparently. For a lot of reasons, this could have gone the other way. But the marvel was it didn\u2019t. I devoured the book in one sitting, expected plot, Speshul Snowflakes, anger issues and all. I can only conclude that Bishop is meeting my genre expectations so well, with that flair of intriguing difference, that it was irresistible. In fact, when I finished, I was seriously spent a couple of minutes debating whether I should download the next book on Kindle and keep reading. It was only discovering that only the first and second books are out, with book three not expected until March 2015 (and four and five in the works) that kept me from an all-night reading binge. So I re-read this one instead. Hook me up and pass the M&Ms, please. ************************************ Re-read October 30, 2015. Additional thoughts: maybe part of the appeal is that it fails to hit my annoyance buttons. Meg has agency, imperfectly realized. She is kind, a quality I value more and more in my old age. She also generally fails to display TSTL traits. Simon, while over-aggressive, is at least consistent within his species/race/whatever, and shows a great deal of internal conflict. And, as cheesy as it sounds, the themes of the book are tolerance and friendship Re-read April 2016. Why? Because it's distracting, entertaining and delicious and I've been feeling cruddy. ...more Buddy read with my wonderful friend Nina . Let's do this! :D \"Of course, if Meg had taken shelter somewhere else instead of stumbling along until she came to the Courtyard, she might not have found them, and he might never have known her. So maybe Namid was wise to make human females do foolish things.\" Notice to mariners: I'm still trying to collect myself. Thus, I'm not in the position to guarantee that the following review will contain more than incomprehensible gibberish. I apologise in advance Buddy read with my wonderful friend Nina . Let's do this! :D \"Of course, if Meg had taken shelter somewhere else instead of stumbling along until she came to the Courtyard, she might not have found them, and he might never have known her. So maybe Namid was wise to make human females do foolish things.\" Notice to mariners: I'm still trying to collect myself. Thus, I'm not in the position to guarantee that the following review will contain more than incomprehensible gibberish. I apologise in advance. I won't say that Written in Red was a surprise for me. I already knew I was likely to appreciate it, thanks to some reviews I had read and, above all, thanks to a couple of friends of mine who claimed this series was a hidden jewel of the urban-fantasy world. So, no, I'm not surprised that the quality of this book is so high; but for sure I am astonished by how much I enjoyed , loved and adored it. If you have already read some of my reviews, you must know I never provide a short summary of the plot, not even the slightest description of what the book is about, before writing down my opinions. Very probably, more than a few details emerge just the same, given how specific I tend to be when analyzing the different element of the book, but that's all. You will almost never find in my reviews a sentence like \"This book tells about\". Even more so, you won't find it in this one. I knew literally nothing about the plot when I started reading Written in Red , except that there were werewolves and vampires, and I strongly feel this played a part in my overall enjoyment, which, as you may have guessed, was very, very high. \u201cIt was easier when all we wanted to do was eat them and take their stuff,\u201d he grumbled. And it had been easier when he hadn\u2019t cared if he made any of them cry.\u201d \u2022 The plot is one of the thing which please me the most. It is well-structured , solid , not too fast-paced nor the opposite. It is exactly the kind of plot a first book in a series needs: action is not neglected, but at the same time the readers have time to get acquainted to the world and the characters, totally at their leisure and without a bit of boredom. Moreover, this is one of those plots which are not composed of a single narrative thread -what I like to call 'multiplots' . And the thing about these category of plots that makes me fall head over heels is that at the end, in those hectic moments of the final battle, or anyway in that which is the climax of the whole story, it turns out that all these separate storylines converge into one. You already know they are meant to, of course, but every single time I think of it as a little narrative miracle. It's so satisfying. And it's not as wasy as it may seem to 'reduce' the intricacy of such a big multiplot in just one key moment. \u2022 The world-building : fabulous. I do not have any other word. I loved its richness, its impeccably neat complexity, and can only admire and worship Anne Bishop for the coherence, the attention and the work she put in shaping it. A plus. \u2022 The writing is maybe the very first thing that made my heart beat for this book. Anne Bishop uses the third-person, which she surely knows how to employ and thus had me sold completely after only one page (I'll always chose the third-person narrative over the first-person). Besides, she has such an enticing way to write, with her full and well-turned sentences and rich descriptions. She is always precise about what the characters do and how, and this gives her writing a sort of concrete, material quality that I cannot explain. Her style gives the world she lays down for us a texture and a consistency that made it easy for me to attune to the story itself. Anne Bishops writes as if she is shaping something material. Her writing is a sculpture . \u2022 The characters - oh, good god. The blessed characters. If you love books that feature a respectable but not so much cast of characters, each one unique and adorable (and that's the case to add: downright scary ) in his own way, then Written in Red is your book. A prophet, Wolves (\"big and scary and so fluffy\"), Sanguinati (what did you say? Vampires? Oh, please, only meat- humans! Only humans call them vampires), a girl who's probably Medusa's daughter or anyway a close relative of hers, Crows (really a lot of them), Howls, a Bear, a Coyote, a couple of mice that will be quickly eaten. And I've surely forgotten someone. Besides, did I mention that one of the Wolves is a pup? His name is Sam and I swear on my heart, you've never met anyone more pretty and cuddly than him. And did I mention another one of the Wolves is Simon Wolfgard ? Like, SIMON WOLFGARD . He made me melt in a thousand ways. ...more I really enjoyed this book -- for a lot of reasons. I can't recall the last UF book that portrayed monsters as, well, monsters. The Others in this world Anne Bishop has created aren't sexy. Or emo. Or anything like human. They see humans as monkeys... as meat. They eat them. And they make no apologies about it. There is a woman that comes into their world, though, that makes them see all humans are not created equal. Some may be worthy of their protection and friendship. Meg is a cassandra sangue I really enjoyed this book -- for a lot of reasons. I can't recall the last UF book that portrayed monsters as, well, monsters. The Others in this world Anne Bishop has created aren't sexy. Or emo. Or anything like human. They see humans as monkeys... as meat. They eat them. And they make no apologies about it. There is a woman that comes into their world, though, that makes them see all humans are not created equal. Some may be worthy of their protection and friendship. Meg is a cassandra sangue, a blood prophet. Women of her kind spend their entire lives imprisoned and bled for prophecy. But she uses her gifts to escape. She seeks refuge in the Courtyard, the land of the Others, and takes a job as their human liason. The Courtyard leader, Simon, senses something different about her. His wolf senses categorize her as \"not-prey,\" though he doesn't understand why. It isn't until after Meg has wound her way into the affections of those who live in the community, that her true nature is exposed. Then, they must all band together to protect her from the humans who want to get her back under their thumbs. The only very small criticism I have about the book is that Meg is a little too-good-to-be-true. The book does acknowledge, though, that her emotional innocence is part of her heritage. And she is just so damn likeable! Simon is the male lead, but I wouldn't call him the hero in the traditional sense. You can clearly see a bond forming between him and Meg, true, but this isn't a romance. (Maybe later? I would like that!) It's all about the way this woman plants the seeds of change in the Courtyard community with her goodness. Her simple kindness and positive approach manage to break down the prejudice the Others feel toward humanity. As the story unfolds, we see the characters among the Others become richer and more developed through their interactions with her. Yet they don't lose their edge. We never forget they are vastly powerful or that they are killers. Simply put, she becomes theirs. The secondary characters are plentiful and add so much to the story. By the time the book was done, I felt like I knew the beings who inhabit the Courtyard. I cheered for them. I rallied for their defeat of the humans who turned out to be an entirely different breed of monster. The tone is dark and intense. There's plenty of tension and action. I was 100% invested, and when it was over, I was so disappointed that there was no more to read. I'm really looking forward to taking the next step on this journey! Rating: A *ARC Provided by Roc ...more [5 Stars] Goodness, this was an absolutely fantastic urban fantasy novel. I'm not sure exactly what I expected going in, but I did think this book was going to be fast paced with supernatural creatures living amongst the humans and some kind of supernatural police force cleaning up problems around the city. I've read three other urban fantasy books with this kind of beginning: Soulless by Gail Carriger, Magic Bites by Ilona Andrews, and Phoenix Rising by Pip Ballantine and Tee Morris. I feel lik [5 Stars] Goodness, this was an absolutely fantastic urban fantasy novel. I'm not sure exactly what I expected going in, but I did think this book was going to be fast paced with supernatural creatures living amongst the humans and some kind of supernatural police force cleaning up problems around the city. I've read three other urban fantasy books with this kind of beginning: Soulless by Gail Carriger, Magic Bites by Ilona Andrews, and Phoenix Rising by Pip Ballantine and Tee Morris. I feel like it is a kind of urban fantasy novel I am familiar with, at home with. This wasn't that kind of Urban fantasy novel, but it was still absolutely fantastic. I love the way Anne Bishop re-imagines the relationship between the supernatural beings and the humans, the fact that the humans are the ones who have to deal with the whims and fancies of the supernatural creatures not the other way around. It puts the world in such an interesting light and makes the human-supernatural interaction all the more exciting and wrought with tension. Bishop also manages to have some of the most believable and relatable characters ever. You see their anger, compassion, and their dangerous natures, but you also see them at their goofiest with their guard down. Meg is also extremely endearing, and you can't help but love her. She is strong without being physically strong. She is spirited and smart and selfless and wonderful and I love her. One thing I will say about this book is that it is a little slow. It isn't your typical fast paced urban fantasy, but I didn't mind that. I was engrossed immediately. I love the world building and the characters and the implication for later books. Also, can I just say I adore the Crowguard? Seriously! I love them and the ponies so much! That being said, you need to read this book. It was absolutely fantastic! ...more MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List I just found another favorite series! Happy Dance! There will be spoilers! I must talk! :-) Meg has escaped from her controller. She is a cassandra sangue which is a Blood Prophet. They cut themselves and can tell prophecies by doing this so of course evil people want to keep them in a prison. Meg finds sanctuary with The Others at the Lakeside Courtyard, this is where the Others live and run businesses. They had a help wanted sign for a Human Liasion job. Thi MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List I just found another favorite series! Happy Dance! There will be spoilers! I must talk! :-) Meg has escaped from her controller. She is a cassandra sangue which is a Blood Prophet. They cut themselves and can tell prophecies by doing this so of course evil people want to keep them in a prison. Meg finds sanctuary with The Others at the Lakeside Courtyard, this is where the Others live and run businesses. They had a help wanted sign for a Human Liasion job. This would involve accepting mail deliveries from humans and sorting the mail like any postal person but putting them in the proper pony sleigh that would come to get the mail. She would also make deliveries to some of the places that other humans didn't go and/or messed up and were eaten. Yeah, in this job if you mess up you can be eaten. Simon Wolfgard is the leader of the community and he is a werewolf. But there are so many creatures living there that I love and am so excited to have read about. They are all referred to as terra indigene. There are vampires, elementals, owls, hawks, crows, ponies, and the list goes on. Meg quickly befriends a lot of the terra indigene. Some it takes a bit, but most take to her quite well. Simon, Henry and Vlad are stunned that she made friends with Grandfather Erebus and Winter, the elemental. Meg makes friends with the ponies that come around to pick up the mail by giving them treats. These ponies are also awesome when they are in their real form as magnificent ponies of different weather elements like Thunder, Lightening, Hurricane, along those lines, no those are really their names and they can bring those things down on you. The Elementals actually ride them as well since they are so connected. I fell in love with so many of the Others, like I said before. I love Simon even though he is cranky a lot of the time :-) Then there is Henry who is a spirit guide and also a grizzly when the time fits! Henry is so sweet, well unless he is needed in taking something out! Vlad is another important Other that helps run some of the businesses. He's a vampire and he's very nice. They have all of these shops and of course my favorite is the bookstore that the wolves run :-) There are a few other humans besides Meg that work with the Others in the shops that I like a lot too. And then we have Nyx, another vampire and Tess, she is someone you don't want to mess with, even all of the Others are afraid of her and the elementals. Henry does find out at the end what Tess is and so do I but I'm not telling you, but she is to be the most feared is all I can say! The crows are hilarious always talking about shiny things and coming over to aggravate Meg buy messing with her office supplies. :-) The Crows, hawks and owls are always on guard around the complex. Oh yeah and this new policeman comes around saying he will help them in any way he can, his name is Monty and he is good people. Since he's good people they didn't ever eat him :-) although Vlad had a little taste, I guess just to scare more of the crap out of him. He only had to shake his hand to get the blood, so simple these vamps are! Anyway, one day in the beginning when Meg is starting out in the job, I mentioned that she delivers some mail. She decided she would go on over to the vamps place because they had a ton of mail that no one would ever deliver to them. Meg was a little freaked out because they were all crowded around the fence as smoke, watching her. Then... grandfather Erebus invites her in the gate to deliver his movies and makes sure they all know to never hurt Meg. It was so sweet :-) So no matter what, Meg has the vamps on her side and they will fight anyone to the death for her. Then as she's coming back around she sees a girl skating on the pond and stops to talk to her. They talk about library books and Meg says she will bring some to her. It was a nice little chat and then Meg was on her way. Meg had no idea she had met Winter the elemental that people just don't talk to like that. When Simon and the crew find out like I said earlier, they are like.. you know.. the crickets thing. Lol Suddenly Simon has to go away because there is some trouble happening somewhere else and he needs to try to help figure out what is going on. He tells Meg she is going to have to watch out for Sam. Sweet little Sam, his mom was killed by humans when they were out of the compound one night and he saw it. Sam has been scarred and won't change back into human form and will only stay in a cage and out to use the bathroom when he is dragged by Simon. But.... our dear Meg gets Sam to come out by putting a buddy harness on him and connecting it to her. He seems to like this and goes outside and has fun. The wolves do not like this because they see it as being a prisoner, but Vlad and Henry watch over them and Sam even starts going to work with Meg. Now there is this b*tch that keeps coming around and her name is Asia, she tried to get the job Meg has and Simon told her no and so she tries to be friends with Meg. She is evil and up to no good and I'm telling you now that I'm glad at the end when this little war goes down that Asia was taken care of by Tess. Oh the glory!!!!! You DO NOT mess with Tess, she gets angry and wants you dead, you are dead. PERIOD! She is friends with Meg too. I love Meg, she is a great person. Then while Simon is away his maker yells at Meg and takes Sam away says he wants her dead for putting Sam on a harness and leash and he hurts her arm and makes her puke from fright. This doesn't sit well with vamps and they give a warning that if Meg is touched again, there will be war from the vamps. Well after all of this fighting and Simon gets back that very night, he gets real with his maker and tells him to never touch Meg again and he has to calm things down with the other Others <---- :-) . Then.... all of the sudden... Sam is in human form talking and upset about Meg and they are stunned, just stunned. Meg got him to come out of his shell and his fur so to speak. It's all really sweet. Well, Meg starts having these bad feelings and has Tess come over so she can cut herself to get the prophecy, yeah, that all sucks. She gets one and there is an uproar about the cutting and about what she saw, but she saved lives and now she has the elementals on her side. Lets just say everyone is on Meg's side after the prophecies, the kindness and the Sam thing. There does end up being a war with the humans that want Meg back and they want Sam too. People die, a few Others die :-( but it all works out in the end. Meg saw this was going to happen and not one of those jerks made it out alive. They even got a doctor that wanted to provide an office at the compound to help any humans when Meg got hurt in the war and they had to take her to the human hospital. Now none of this is over, there is a lot of other stuff going on and the controller will always be after Meg too, but that is to be continued in the other books! Yay! I'm so happy to have found another new favorite series. I know it's just the first book but I can tell! It's one of THOSE kind. Oh let me add a few excerpts before I close. --->EXCERPTS<--- Vlad sighed. How had Simon endured this silence from a pup he loved? He got out of the BOW, carrying Sam so he wouldn't have to dry off the pup. After setting him on the floor in the back room-and watching while Sam rushed into the sorting room to find Meg-he took the sacks and towel out of the BOW and carried them inside. Moving silently, he entered the sorting room. Sam was sniffing on corner of the room, now oblivious to everything except the scent he'd found. Opening the Private door all the way, he looked at the tableau and thought, A Crow, A prophet, and a vampire walk into the office... \u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022 \"Do you like movies, little Wolf?\" Meg jumped and let out a squeak. Sam responded by making puppy growls and snarls--which would have sounded more impressive if he hadn't leaped behind her and then poked his head between her knees to voice those opinions. She looked at the old man standing at the gate, smiling gently at her. \"Mr. Erebus.\" \"I didn't mean to startle you.\" \"I know. I just didn't see you.\" She glanced at his mausoleum. The door was open, but there were no footprints marring the fresh snow on the walk. She had gotten so used to seeing smoke drift over the snow, she hadn't even noticed it this time. Erebus didn't comment. He just stood there smiling gently. \"Sam does like movies,\" Meg said to fill the silence. She closed the full delivery boxes, then went back to the BOW for another group of packages. \"But I don't think he watches the same kind of movies that you do.\" \"I like many kinds of movies.\" Erebus replied, looking at Sam. \"Have you seen the movies called cartoons? I especially enjoy the ones where the animals or people do the most foolish things and still survive.\" \u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022 \"You stirred things up here.\" he finally said. \"Why?\" \"I'm not the one who-\" \"You've angered the Sanguinati, and that's not going to help us right now.\" \"You don't know what's been going on here,' Elliot snapped. \"what that monkey-fuck female has done.\" \"She's not a monkey-fuck, and she is not prey,\" Simon said, his voice a low, threatening rumble. \"She is Meg.\" \"You don't know what she's done!\" \"She gets mail and deliveries to the complexes on a regular basis. She has a routine with the deliverymen, so we get the merchandise we bought. And she got Sam out of the damn cage!\" \"She put a him on a leash, Simon. On a leash!\" \"It's not a leash,\" a young, scratchy voice shouted. Of tried to shout. \"It's a safety line. Adventure buddies use a safety line so they can help each other.\" Elliot stared, frozen. Simon turned, barely breathing. \u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022 Around midmorning, she got tangled in a bizarre game of tug between Nathan and Jake. She didn't know which of them had brought in the length of rope as a toy, but the Wolf, still lying on the bed, had his teeth in one end of it, and the Crow had his feet clenched around the other and was madly flapping his wings. Her mistake was thinking she could break up the game by grabbing the rope right in front of Jake's feet. Suddenly Nathan was on his feet, wagging his tail while he growled at her, and Jake's caws sounded suspiciously gleeful. Because the floor was a little snow-slick and her shoes didn't have enough traction, she was pulled from one end of the room to the other and couldn't figure out how to let go of the rope without falling on her butt. \u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022 There are so many excerpts I would have loved to have added but I figured I should only add a few :-) If you were ever planning on reading the book, I would suggest that you do it, it's awesome! ...more 4.5 stars I am, first and foremost, an urban fantasy reader. On the secluded island that is my mind, a new series as good as The Others is more rare and more coveted than a fresh batch of blueberry muffins. And I do love my blueberry muffins. It should be mentioned that Written in Red leans more towards the fantasy part of urban fantasy. In fact, if we take the strictest definition, it\u2019s not urban fantasy at all. But it\u2019s a thin line, and Bishop\u2019s world so unique that I see no point in making the 4.5 stars I am, first and foremost, an urban fantasy reader. On the secluded island that is my mind, a new series as good as The Others is more rare and more coveted than a fresh batch of blueberry muffins. And I do love my blueberry muffins. It should be mentioned that Written in Red leans more towards the fantasy part of urban fantasy. In fact, if we take the strictest definition, it\u2019s not urban fantasy at all. But it\u2019s a thin line, and Bishop\u2019s world so unique that I see no point in making the distinction. In Written in Red, we familiarize ourselves with Thasia and its inhabitants. In Thasia, Others live in compounds where they govern themselves. Human laws don\u2019t apply. Their contact with humans is extremely limited, which is for the best. Any human who breaks a law of the Others ends up eaten or worse. Humans (or monkeys, as the terra indigene call them) have access to a few stores and restaurants, but they aren\u2019t allowed to go anywhere near the residential complexes where the Wolfguards, Hawkguards, Crowguards, Sanguinati and other clans live. The terra indigene are not human. They are supernatural creatures that acquired human skin because it suited them for some reason. If visitors to the courtyard expect them to react and behave like humans, they are most likely to get eaten. The Others don\u2019t advertise the fact that they all eat special meat, but they don\u2019t try too hard to hide it either. To them, humans are monkeys, and they only tolerate them because there are certain human inventions and products they enjoy. \u201cBut what would they have said to their Liaison? It\u2019s like this, Meg. We didn\u2019t like that Asia Crane, so we ate her. When dealing with humans, honesty isn\u2019t always the best policy, Vlad thought\u201d Meg Corbin, a blood prophet and the courtyard\u2019s human liaison, is not your typical urban fantasy heroine. She is physically weak from being imprisoned all her life and her knowledge and social skills come from carefully selected photographs and video clips. Until she escaped, she wasn\u2019t allowed to talk unless she was speaking a prophecy. But despite her obvious weaknesses, there is a certain strength in her quiet, persistent ways, a steel spine in her small, fragile body. And unlike all the other humans, she doesn\u2019t smell like prey. The narrator\u2019s voice has a very pleasant timbre and her voice characterization is excellent. Simon Wolfguard is a true alpha male if there ever was one (notice how I wrote male but not man !), and getting his voice just right was no small feat, yet Harris gave him just the right amount of growl and menace without making it seem like she was trying too hard. 18 hours is a very long time to spend listening to a single person, but Harris made it very easy. In the future, I won\u2019t hesitate to pick up any audiobook she narrated. I can\u2019t believe I have to wait a whole year for Murder of Crows to come out. Just thinking about it is painful. But I do know I\u2019ll wait for the audio, if they keep the same narrator. This is another book I can already add to my \u2018Best of 2013\u2019 list. ...more Solid urban fantasy, unlike what I usually read. Had some really fantastic characters. Lately I've been dividing genres into parts, and in keeping with that pattern, there are two types of Urban Fantasy (generally speaking). In the first type, various supernatural creatures live hidden among us, and maintaining that secrecy is paramount to their society. In the second type, various supernatural creatures live openly among us, but are forced to constantly walk the tightrope of human approval. Vampires, Weres, Fae, etc. are either met with fangirlish worship by pandering wannabes, o Lately I've been dividing genres into parts, and in keeping with that pattern, there are two types of Urban Fantasy (generally speaking). In the first type, various supernatural creatures live hidden among us, and maintaining that secrecy is paramount to their society. In the second type, various supernatural creatures live openly among us, but are forced to constantly walk the tightrope of human approval. Vampires, Weres, Fae, etc. are either met with fangirlish worship by pandering wannabes, or thinly-veiled contempt from the rest of the humans who fear what their bones recognize as Predator . They are threatened with things like formal registration, so that they can be tracked and/or monitored by a fearful government, and they live in a constant state of tension, waiting, waiting, waiting, for the humans to freak out and try to exterminate them. If for no other reason, this is why Anne Bishop gets a gold star. In Bishop's world, supernatural creatures don't hide. They don't cater to human fickleness in the hopes of preserving a fragile peace. They own the earth and everything in it, and they allow humans to exist as long as \"the monkeys\" don't become too much of a nuisance. So that's pretty awesome. As for the characters, Anne Bishop is either in possession of oscar-worthy acting skills, or she made a deal with the devil in order to be able to create such believable and consistent characters (or I suppose she could just be an incredibly gifted writer). Take Asia Crane. She is the most hateful, the most self-absorbed, the most narcissistic villain I've come across in a LONG time. But even while I was wishing she was a real person whose eyes I could scratch out, I couldn't help but appreciate how unflagging she was in her set-behavior. There was no incongruence of actions. Asia Crane was Asia Crane (devil that she was) until the bitter end. Then there are the shifters. It's postulated somewhere in the book that the shifters had adopted their animal forms so long ago that they had likewise adopted some of the animal behavior along with the form. And this, in my humble opinion, is the best part of the book: wolves, and crows, and hawks, in people form, acting like wolves, and crows, and hawks. Whether it's a wolf threatening to eat someone b/c he's aggravated, a crow refusing to give correct change from a register b/c coins are shiny, or a hawk snooping through packages b/c he smelled a mouse, it's ALL hilarious. But it was also LONG. So very long. And the beginning, while being highly entertaining, was very slow plot-wise. Also, after 500+ pages, I don't have a solid grasp of what this is all about. I think it may have something to do with world peace unification of supernatural creatures and humans, but I'm not sure, and I don't know why that's important. Right now the series seems to be focused on protecting Meg from \"The Controller\" but I'm having a hard time swallowing that as an endgame, b/c (more than likely) The Controller is a human, and Bishop's world paints a very clear picture concerning how easy it is to snuff out an aggravating human. Overall it was excellent. Hopefully more will be revealed in A Murder of Crows , and then I will have absolutely no cause for complaint. Sidenote: There is currently a murder of crows in my backyard. They are almost large enough to be ravens (but I'm pretty sure ravens don't live around here), and they are freaking me out. Fyi. ...more This book was recommended to me by the owner of Cupboard Maker Books in Pennsylvania who knows her books! When I started it, I was a little hesitant as there's a \"brief history of the world\" that starts things out and I stopped reading epic fantasy because of all that history and world building details (which is great, but I don't have the time/energy/brain power to keep track of!). However, I trusted Michelle and pushed on. The first couple of chapters are rather thick with world building detai This book was recommended to me by the owner of Cupboard Maker Books in Pennsylvania who knows her books! When I started it, I was a little hesitant as there's a \"brief history of the world\" that starts things out and I stopped reading epic fantasy because of all that history and world building details (which is great, but I don't have the time/energy/brain power to keep track of!). However, I trusted Michelle and pushed on. The first couple of chapters are rather thick with world building details - the author renames the days of the week and the continents, but I just ignored it as it wasn't that important to the story and they're close enough (Earthday, Moonsday, etc...). But once I got into the story, well, I couldn't stop. There's something about this story and characters that is really compelling and I'm not sure what it is! Normally I like strong protagonists, but Meg isn't quite strong - she's more a survivor and she's just so....nice! As for the plot, it takes a while for things to start heating up, and the climax was over rather quick (view spoiler) [The Others are so powerful it makes sense that they are able to protect their people quickly. And normally this uneven balance of power would not make for good fiction - but in this case it does! Go figure :) (hide spoiler) ] . I'm glad I didn't put the book down after the first couple chapters. Michelle - you were right! What should I read next? ...more *heart eyes* Um... why on Earth have I read this book only now? So good, so complex, so well-developed. It's huge but it's worth it, let's be honest. I don't have enough time to write about everything I liked about this book but I do have to mention the amazing palette of characters and a quite refreshing writing style. Anne Bishops ofetn hits you with a hilarious pun in the middle of a serious situation, but I absolutely loved that. Meg and Simon are quite a duo and I can't wait to read more abo *heart eyes* Um... why on Earth have I read this book only now? So good, so complex, so well-developed. It's huge but it's worth it, let's be honest. I don't have enough time to write about everything I liked about this book but I do have to mention the amazing palette of characters and a quite refreshing writing style. Anne Bishops ofetn hits you with a hilarious pun in the middle of a serious situation, but I absolutely loved that. Meg and Simon are quite a duo and I can't wait to read more about what's coming their way. Also, I love Tess and Vlad so far. They seem like very interesting characters and I can't wait to find out more about them. ...more First 100 pages were terrible. Can't get into the world, and the world-building confused me. I didn't know whether it was an apocalyptic world, or a modern one in which supernaturals exist, or an alternate reality...I can't get a good sense of the book without the proper knowledge of the world in which the book is set. The characters also didn't hook me, Simon is typical alpha wolf, pretty boring on paper, and Meg so bored me that I can't be fucked to find out what her story is. I just can't see First 100 pages were terrible. Can't get into the world, and the world-building confused me. I didn't know whether it was an apocalyptic world, or a modern one in which supernaturals exist, or an alternate reality...I can't get a good sense of the book without the proper knowledge of the world in which the book is set. The characters also didn't hook me, Simon is typical alpha wolf, pretty boring on paper, and Meg so bored me that I can't be fucked to find out what her story is. I just can't seem to get into Anne Bishop's works. ...more Okay, first, a warning: if you ever engaged in self-harm, if you have ever been tempted to engage in self-harm, don't read this book. Don't go near this book. Don't even finish this review. You'd be better off reading Moby Dick backwards while dangling upside-down by a toe. Actually, everyone would be better off reading Moby Dick backwards while dangling upside-down by a toe. This isn't just a bad book, it's an actively awful one on virtually every level. I finished this book so mad I came back t Okay, first, a warning: if you ever engaged in self-harm, if you have ever been tempted to engage in self-harm, don't read this book. Don't go near this book. Don't even finish this review. You'd be better off reading Moby Dick backwards while dangling upside-down by a toe. Actually, everyone would be better off reading Moby Dick backwards while dangling upside-down by a toe. This isn't just a bad book, it's an actively awful one on virtually every level. I finished this book so mad I came back to GR for the first time in years to write this review. And then I stared at the blank box for weeks, wondering how to encapsulate all that was terrible about this book in one review. My conclusion: I can't. So let's just hit the lowlights, discussed here in no particular order because you can't really rank disasters of this magnitude. Hero Confusion This book has no idea who its heroes are. The nominal good guys, the ones the narrative wants us to root for, are the \"good\" earth natives (supernatural entities of many varieties -- werewolves, vampires, elementals, etc.). Now. The earth natives have powers that far overwhelm any human's abilities. A single earth native of the weakest variety can kill many humans. The most powerful varieties could kill every human on a continent without much effort, and they have no weaknesses at all. Because might exclusively makes right in this world (yeah, we'll get to that), the earth natives own everything in the Americas. (And most things everywhere else, as far as I could tell, but the worldbuilding -- we'll get to that, too -- is super shaky, so I'm not sure.) The earth natives control resources, transportation, food, water, everything . And they can take any of that away from the humans, any time they want to. (They can also, of course, just kill them. Just sometimes it's more fun to make them eat their loved ones first.) This is textbook oppression. The most powerful control everything and will kill you or take away what you need to live at the slightest hint of dissent. And we're expected by this book to actively root for the oppressors to continue to dominate and oppress. I couldn't manage it. Oh, and I mentioned that there are good and bad earth natives, according to the narrative. What separates them? The good ones only kill and hurt some humans. The bad ones want to kill all the humans. When the good ones get angry, they only kill or hurt the people who pissed them off, plus a random selection of other humans who had nothing to do with it. When the bad ones get angry, they kill every human in a town or larger area. That's\u2026like, it's an improvement not to kill everyone, sure, but. It doesn't make you good. It doesn't make you acceptable. I'm not going to like you just because you hurt innocent people less . This Book Hates Women WOW does this book hate women. The hatred oozes from every page. It's not just that Bishop relies on the same tired old misogynistic tropes -- the Evil Ex Who Has No Redeeming Features and Cruelly Manipulates a Man, the Terrible Woman Who Uses Her Body or Her Looks for Personal Gain and Thus Must Die Horribly, and of course that wonderful standby: the Only Good Woman Is a Victim. It's not even mostly that. It's that Bishop has structured this world based on the following principles: 1. Might and only might makes right. 2. Humans are weak. 3. Women, even when powerful, are weak. So you get a ruling class made up of earth natives, and who rules the earth natives? The dudes. The female earth natives may have phenomenal cosmic powers, and many of them do, but they don't make decisions. They serve. They cook. They clean. They care for children. They admire shiny objects. And that is all they get to do . And the human women, being in two despised classes (human and female) get even less. The main female character, Meg, is a classic Good Woman Victim, having been raised in captivity, abuse, and total isolation (\u2026and yet somehow she's able to function in society; sadly, I'm not going to have room here to cover the unrealistic pile of damaging crap that is this book's approach to trauma), with her actual life starting at the beginning of the book. She finds work as a clerk and gets adopted by the earth natives because she's -- well, nice to them? I guess? And also does her job better than her predecessors? It's never made clear. But her weakness is emphasized again and again, from her inability to get over a countertop (played for laughs) to her inability to make choices for her own body (repeatedly taken from her by many characters) to her helplessness and need for protection. She's the classic heroine who does not do but is done to. Her main ability is to hurt herself. (No, seriously, that's her gift: she cuts herself so she can issue prophecies.) It's frustrating as hell. The male main character, meanwhile, is everything you ever hated about the dominant male werewolf stereotype multiplied by ten, with a heaping helping of oppression thrown in. The only really interesting character is Asia, a woman who attempts to do things for herself, investigate, learn stuff -- except she's the buffoon bad guy, depicted as an over-the-top scheming moustache-twirling villain who should burn, burn, burn for her crimes (of\u2026using what she has to attempt to get ahead in this oppressive society that limits her choices). Spoiler: she's killed horribly! As is the inevitable fate, in Bishop's world, of women who do stuff and make choices. The Worldbuilding Is a Disaster. A Racist, Racist Disaster. Okay, so, Native Americans. You remember them, right? Well, they\u2026don't exist in this book. They never existed, as far as I can tell. And they aren't just erased, either. No. They are explicitly turned into monsters. The little legend at the front of the book describes the European colonists arriving in the New World and trading baubles and cloth for land rights. Um. That actually happened, except it was to actual people who were then horribly abused and killed . But no, here, they were all-powerful monsters! The heroes were the brave, noble, outmatched colonizers! Yup. This story attempts to reclaim the colonizers as heroes myth, while apparently turning Native Americans into non-human monsters. I'll give you a second to settle your stomach. But once you've swallowed that giant, choke-inducing, rotten pill, you have to swallow a whole bunch more tiny crap-flavored ones. Bishop has no explanation for anything in this book. Why did human society develop along such similar lines, with similar governmental systems, for example, when everything is so different ? The earth natives were always there! The human government has been a sham from the start! Why would it look like ours? Why would the police system look like ours? Why would the entertainment industry be like ours? Why are the same inventions present when access to raw materials is tightly controlled by the earth natives and there are far, far fewer humans? Innovation should be stunted, but -- I guess it isn't. WHY? I could sit here all night coming up with these questions. None of them is ever answered, or answerable in a way that makes logical sense. TL;DR If you can ignore the misogyny, the racism, the utter senselessness, the hero confusion, and the other flaws of this book, it's a page-turning id romp. If you read it with your brain turned on for even a single second, the whole house of cards will collapse and you'll be left with absolute seething fury. At this book, at this author, at the people who published it, at the place that sold it to you, at the paper it's printed on. Read something else. Almost anything else. Read Ilona Andrews' Burn for Me and discover what urban fantasy looks like when it doesn't hate women. Read The Martian and discover what page-turners are like when they don't leave you feeling dirty. Or read this. In which case, I wish you strength. You'll need it. ...more If one mere sentence could sum up Written in Red by Anne Bishop , it's this: BEST PARANORMAL BOOK, EVER!!! Holy. Crap. I'm not kidding. I've grown tired of most of today's so-called Paranormal books, because they mostly use the same overused elements over and over again. It doesn't help the fact that a lot of them portray creatures such as Vampires and Werewolves... in a... not-so menacing way, as they should be. I'm not pointing fingers to what those books are, but most of you get my drift, ye If one mere sentence could sum up Written in Red by Anne Bishop , it's this: BEST PARANORMAL BOOK, EVER!!! Holy. Crap. I'm not kidding. I've grown tired of most of today's so-called Paranormal books, because they mostly use the same overused elements over and over again. It doesn't help the fact that a lot of them portray creatures such as Vampires and Werewolves... in a... not-so menacing way, as they should be. I'm not pointing fingers to what those books are, but most of you get my drift, yeah? In this book, such creatures and many more are really in their original elements - Werewolves are capable of eating men, Vampires really do suck blood - and painfully at that, the seasons are personified and if you tick one of them off, be ready to experience Nature's wrath... and so many more that it becomes a whole, new, interesting world! For some odd, otherworldly reason, it's really hard for me to write a review about this book. Have any of you ever felt that words are not enough to describe the euphoria that was experienced? That a paragraph here or two cannot give it justice? Yeah, that's the kind of feeling I have right now, and while it is a positive thing, I feel a bit frustrated because I want people to read this book. I want people to witness and experience the same happiness and exhilaration this book gave me. I'm not sure if I'll be able to convince you guys of giving this gem a chance, but I'll try. Okay, so in this book, the world is divided into two factions - the Human Beings and the Others, the latter consisting of beings like Wolves (werewolves) that hunt in packs, a family of powerful Vampires who can easily suck you dry, the different seasons personified, and other Paranormal beings. Both sides have created a truce in order to co-exist. The Others won't harm the Human Beings as long as the Humans give tribute to them. In order to make sure that such promises are upheld, the Others take on human forms, but will not hesitate to transform at will if situations call for it. But there's also another kind of being going about called Blood Prophets, humans who can see the future when they are cut and blood flows out. Meg is one of them, and she's running away from the people who've used her and held her captive, and she found solace and \"protection\" in the turf of these Others as their Human Liaison. I think one of the factors that made me really, really like this book was the way the relationships, be it romantic or platonic, were written between the characters. They were just handled so well and so naturally, that I couldn't help but feel an attachment to each and every one of them. Others are wary of Humans and vice versa, so it was so refreshing to see the wall between the two factions crumble and fade as the former adjust and be touched by the heroine's innate innocence and kindness. It's like, I don't know, witnessing a cold and stony heart learn to love again. Meg is absolutely endearing and adorable, and the little things she does out of goodwill to the creatures that have not been treated as such by the other Humans, were so captivating and heartwarming, that I couldn't help but feel happy and warm myself. You even feel for the side characters, plenty as they are. They're all so characterized uniquely, each having a personality of their own, that there were times I actually looked forward to seeing them again. Now that's a feat not easily accomplished! Usually, I don't like multiple POVs, but it really worked here. In this book, you get to see the story from various perspectives - from Simon, the Wolf leader; Henry, the Spirit Bear; even from antagonists such as Asia Crane! It's really well written, and I cannot stress enough how the narration was so delicious to consume - I could eat spoonfuls of it! Absolutely musical and perfect. Sigh. You guys have no idea how this book is making me want to read the next installment NOW. The deaths were exceptionally written as well. The author has a wild imagination, and there are times that I wish I thought of them myself. Anne Bishop is seriously one of the best writers I've ever encountered. I am not worthy ;-; Overall, this is a story with many beautiful themes worth noting - friendship, love, family, and of course, growing up - for both Meg and the Others who've lived since time immemorial. Compelling. Haunting. Engaging. This book will keep you up all night for many reasons, and you'll be sad when it's over. ...more Reading this book is one of the most stupidest things I've ever done in my life and believe me I've done a lot of stupid things. I should not have read this book, I should not have read this book in March 2013 but in march 2014. Because this book is freaking amazing and I don't think I can wait for the next part for a whole, literally a whole year Anne Bishop I've to say you have rendered me speechless with your writing you certainly know how to keep a reader interested. Meg Corbyn is on the ru Reading this book is one of the most stupidest things I've ever done in my life and believe me I've done a lot of stupid things. I should not have read this book, I should not have read this book in March 2013 but in march 2014. Because this book is freaking amazing and I don't think I can wait for the next part for a whole, literally a whole year Anne Bishop I've to say you have rendered me speechless with your writing you certainly know how to keep a reader interested. Meg Corbyn is on the run for her life being a blood prophet who can see the future with every cut made on her skin she is highly in demand. She's managed to escape from her Controller and has landed at the door step of Simon Wolfgard who makes her the new human liaison, from that point on-wards the story gets really interesting. What I loved about the book: I loved how Anne was able to give every side of the story, although sometimes I just wanted her to go on with Meg and Simon's interactions. I admired how Meg was able to help Sam, Simon's orphaned nephew,in breaking out of his scared shell and act like a wolf again. Mostly I loved how Anne represented the terra indigene and their strong bonds among each other. Most of all I loved how everybody got a laugh out of Meg's ways and her clumsiness and how Simon nor the other wolves could seem to resist the cookies she provided. In the end I would like to say this is one of the best books I've read this year and to know how the story unravels just might be worth the wait for the next part. (Although I'm ready to give a kidney just to read it now) ...more 5+++ STARS!!!! Anne Bishop, thank you for this masterpiece! That was awesome. No instalove here, folks! Which has me reaching for book 2... :) There are not sufficient words to describe all the feelings this book caused to me. Wonderful. Magnificent. Absolutely amazing. Shocking. Magical. Mysterious. Dangerous. I loved everything, everything about it. The characters, the story, the world-building. Such an amazing, fairytale-like world, but so much Darker and more captivating. Meg Corbyn is a 24-year old girl who has escaped the compound where she was being held as a 'slave'. In a world where humans and the Others exist, Meg is considere There are not sufficient words to describe all the feelings this book caused to me. Wonderful. Magnificent. Absolutely amazing. Shocking. Magical. Mysterious. Dangerous. I loved everything, everything about it. The characters, the story, the world-building. Such an amazing, fairytale-like world, but so much Darker and more captivating. Meg Corbyn is a 24-year old girl who has escaped the compound where she was being held as a 'slave'. In a world where humans and the Others exist, Meg is considered special. She is able to foresee future happenings if she cuts her own skin. She escapes and asks for shelter at \"the Others' Courtyard\" . They are suspicious at the beginning, but afterwards she becomes their favorite human-not-prey . They like her and protect her from people(or not) who mean harm to her. She may be 24, an adult, but her mind(and body I guess) is so innocent. She has so much more to learn about a world and emotions that she knows only through pictures. Imagine a world where the days have different names and the seasons are not just seasons. In a world where creatures from your darkest nightmares live, all you have to do is run and hide. (view spoiler) [ (hide spoiler) ] I loved so much this world that Anne Bishop created. I loved every single one of the characters, Simon, Tess, Henry, The Elementals, The Sanguinati, little Sam. The are so protective of Meg. \"It\u2019s not a leash,\u201d a young, scratchy voice shouted. Or tried to shout. \u201cIt\u2019s a safety line. Adventure buddies use a safety line so they can help each other.\u201d - when you reach this part, you'll know what I'm talking about. This part had me like: I am so amazed by this book. If I could give more than 5 stars, I would. I am so hooked now. I want to read more. I feel there are still things to be settled and many other developments. I am so glad there are 3 other books. I recommend this book to all my GR friends. I guarantee you. YOU ARE ABOUT TO BE AMAZED! [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more What a fantastic book! Vampires, warewolfs, and Meg. Not so much of your typical scary story involving a vampire and a warewolf.. I'm not going to go into the story since I'm sure that others have already, but I just wanted to say that the story pulls you in immediately. Meg, the heroine, is completely likeable from the start, Simon is an atypical hero, and I'm completely in love with his little nephew, Sam. I'm not usually into dark urban fantasy, but this is exceptional, I would recommend to a What a fantastic book! Vampires, warewolfs, and Meg. Not so much of your typical scary story involving a vampire and a warewolf.. I'm not going to go into the story since I'm sure that others have already, but I just wanted to say that the story pulls you in immediately. Meg, the heroine, is completely likeable from the start, Simon is an atypical hero, and I'm completely in love with his little nephew, Sam. I'm not usually into dark urban fantasy, but this is exceptional, I would recommend to any who loves supernatural books. ...more I\u2019ve been eager to pick up Written in Red for some time after hearing so much praise for the story, and now I\u2019m sorry I didn\u2019t make time sooner because it was amazing! This story is set in a world where there are humans and the Others: shapeshifters, vampires, elementals and unknown otherworldly creatures who view humans as \u201cclever meat\u201d. Their relationship is tenuous at best, but also symbiotic since each group has come to rely on the other for goods and supplies. By far, though, the Others hav I\u2019ve been eager to pick up Written in Red for some time after hearing so much praise for the story, and now I\u2019m sorry I didn\u2019t make time sooner because it was amazing! This story is set in a world where there are humans and the Others: shapeshifters, vampires, elementals and unknown otherworldly creatures who view humans as \u201cclever meat\u201d. Their relationship is tenuous at best, but also symbiotic since each group has come to rely on the other for goods and supplies. By far, though, the Others have the upper hand in this world. As a blood prophet or cassandra sangue , Meg Corbyn has lived a life imprisoned, enslaved and viewed as property. The prophecies Meg sees are highly profitable to a man called The Controller, so when she escapes Meg must find a safe place to avoid recapture. She stumbles into the Lakeside Courtyard, an Others settlement, and acquires the job of Human Liaison and it seemed as though she was jumping from the frying pan into the fire, but Meg weaves her way into the Others\u2019 hearts regardless of the fact that she\u2019s a human. She wins them over with her efforts to do a good job as the Liaison, truly caring for others whether they are human or the Others, and in the process she becomes special to the Others. Even Simon, Lakeside\u2019s leader and wolf shifter softens towards Meg in spite of their rocky start. Her friendship and influence on Sam, a little traumatized wolf shifter and Simon\u2019s nephew, plays a big role in his softening. Her friendship and interactions with Sam, her little \u201cadventure buddy\u201d made my heart swell! There isn\u2019t a romance yet but there are hints and groundwork laid in this installment for one. Watching it take shape was satisfying and of course, I hopefully scrutinized every interaction! The constant threat of The Controller and his efforts to reacquire Meg provided suspense, danger, and action that had me anxiously turning the pages! The Others provided her with protection he didn\u2019t count on, but that didn\u2019t stop me from being very afraid for Meg, especially as more of her life in the Controller\u2019s compound was revealed. Evil man! I just LOVED this story soooo much, and I doubt I\u2019m doing it justice with my review but I highly recommend it! I couldn\u2019t get enough. I bought both the e-copy and audible version and switched back and forth. Even when I finished the e-copy at home, I listened to the remaining hours on the audio version because the story is that good. I will definitely re-read Written in Red and Murder of Crows (which I read immediately after) before the next book is released, not because I\u2019ll need a refresher, but because I want to relive the stories again! Alexandra Harris' narration was low key and perfect! I loved are her wolf howl arroooohs! You can find this review and more at The Readers Den. ...more For some reason I'd gotten into my head that The Others was YA series. Boy was I pleased to find out this was decidely not YA novel! And it worked explicitly because of that. The story and 'people' were much more complex and their communities a lot more interesting with adult characters. There was ample pulse and heart in the characters, no matter what forms they were. The writing felt so hearty even when the violence wasn't mild and the visuals made me a bit qeasy, the author went all in: gruesom For some reason I'd gotten into my head that The Others was YA series. Boy was I pleased to find out this was decidely not YA novel! And it worked explicitly because of that. The story and 'people' were much more complex and their communities a lot more interesting with adult characters. There was ample pulse and heart in the characters, no matter what forms they were. The writing felt so hearty even when the violence wasn't mild and the visuals made me a bit qeasy, the author went all in: gruesome and primitive. Predator and prey in every sense of the word. The fact that Meg & the Others were unsure how to behave toward one another was a point of hysterical comedy: it was a great idea that get explored artfully. The Others don't care for humans other than as prey so they don't bother to learn things about them. Meanwhile Meg doesn't know how to gauge the Others' responds (view spoiler) [because she never lived in the outside world before so basically in a way they're both 'innocents' (hide spoiler) ] ...more I'm rather surprised that I didn't get into this nearly as much as I had hoped I would. Something wasn't clicking with me, and as I kept reading, I spent way too much attention on other things. Like little things like why I ought to care. I expected Urban Fantasy, and to me, it doesn't even remotely equate with sparkly vampires or huggable monsters of any stripe. I like grit. I love plot. Characters are everything, but if I had to place all my hopes upon one thing and one thing only, I'd say it I'm rather surprised that I didn't get into this nearly as much as I had hoped I would. Something wasn't clicking with me, and as I kept reading, I spent way too much attention on other things. Like little things like why I ought to care. I expected Urban Fantasy, and to me, it doesn't even remotely equate with sparkly vampires or huggable monsters of any stripe. I like grit. I love plot. Characters are everything, but if I had to place all my hopes upon one thing and one thing only, I'd say it had to be conflict. For way too long in the novel, there was no real conflict. Sure, we have the Others and the Monkeys. We have Meg running from her past and her late-revealed ability. That's all out there as potential conflict, but in the meantime, we've got growls and innuendo and something that smells entirely of a different kind of novel. Like I said, it took me a long time to figure it out. But it dawned on me: this isn't really an UF novel. If you ignore all the light fantasy elements, what we've really got is a novel about an awkward girl from a bad home that ran away and took up living with a gruff immigrant community, and specifically with a mean-sounding bookstore owner with a heart of gold. She gets bedazzled into being a jack-of-all trades and she eventually gets adopted by the enclosed community. Mary-Sue syndrome? Yeah. Self-esteem issues boiling down to cutting, but magic making it a useful trait? Yeah, there's that, too. If there hadn't been magic in the novel at all, it might have been a rather heartwarming tale about a kid finding a community to belong to, with other heartwarming elements like befriending the abused puppy, discovering that sorting mail really is interesting as long as you can use REAL PONIES... oh wait.. I mean elemental steeds... and getting that heart-in-throat moment when, against all odds, your new friends go way out of their way to protect you when your official family tries to drag you back to your old hell. And you know what? I might have been more at home in this real life setting kind of tale. I'd likely have attached to each character more deeply. And you know what really scares the living shit out of me? I'm A HUGE FAN OF SF/F, almost to the exclusion of all other genres. I NEVER say this kind of shit about any book. I never pine about how a tale might have been better served vanilla. And yet, I just did. There were a few elements of magic and history that were promising, such as the drowned city. Maybe if a little bit of the plot had revolved more around the implications of the magic rather than just being bad ass and driving away all the bad monkeys, I'd have at least had that to point at, but as it was, almost the entire novel was mundane this and mundane that. Getting Sam to trust anyone, let alone quasi-human Meg, was all very nice, but he was just a hybrid abused boy/abused dog. I wanted to like this more. I really did. The end action was, unfortunately, too little, too late. The magic and the UF elements were too bland. I couldn't even taste them through the mundane. Needs more spice. I'll read the next in the series later this month because I've already promised that I will, but I really hope it picks up with more real conflict than this. Mundane conflicts are mundane conflicts. They appear larger only as long as there's nothing else to compare them with. Once you add some truly breathtaking conflicts, the rest of it just fades into the background. Maybe for some readers, all this mundane buildup served the function of complex character building, but I haven't seen that much in the way of character development or change except in how Meg is no longer prey and is accepted. Of course, all of that could have been accomplished with some severe editing out of 300 or so pages until we were left with an actual interesting story with all the fantastical elements not being drowned out. Here's to hoping it gets better! ...more Rating: 4,5 stars 'I'd better get going. If I'm late getting back, Mr. Wolfgard will send the whole pack out looking for me.\" She had meant it as a joke, but Spring's reply was serious. \"Of course he would,\" Spring said. \"Namid had given you to us, and we value the world's gifts.\"' As I've been in a UF/PNR mood since I managed to get out of my reading slump, I was looking for something new to dig into when I found this little gem. Written in Red didn't only deliver when it comes to being an awesom Rating: 4,5 stars 'I'd better get going. If I'm late getting back, Mr. Wolfgard will send the whole pack out looking for me.\" She had meant it as a joke, but Spring's reply was serious. \"Of course he would,\" Spring said. \"Namid had given you to us, and we value the world's gifts.\"' As I've been in a UF/PNR mood since I managed to get out of my reading slump, I was looking for something new to dig into when I found this little gem. Written in Red didn't only deliver when it comes to being an awesome UF series, but it's also quite different from what I've come across previously. It's kind of a Fantasy with \"Urban aspects\" in it; instead of fantasy aspects in a world as we know it, it's a fantasy world where humans are allowed to live in a world ruled by the Others. And the Others is a group with plenty of different paranormal creatures--creatures who, while being able to appear in human forms, are not. I truly loved this story. It might not have been completely mind-blowing for me, but it was a fantastic read. I loved how Meg managed to find her place among the Others and create a life for herself; how the Others came around and accepted her as a family member; how little Sam, who I adored, finally came out of his shell. I also loved the different creatures existing in this book, as well as seeing their struggles with learning how to take care of (and getting used to) Meg. And while I sometimes have issues with multiple POV:s in books, it never bothered me with this one. For me it was done perfectly, in a way that let the reader get to know all of the characters better. I cannot wait to continue the series. Everything is far from solved in this wonderful world, and I'm already missing all of the characters I've come to love. \"Run my boys. Run!\" Winter shouted to Thunder and Lightning. \"Run for our Meg. AND LET THE STORM FLY!\" She screamed, and Air screamed. Simon held on to Meg, licking the leaking wound on her chin as the Elementals unleashed their rage on the city of Lakeside.' ...more Some people loved it, some hated it. I'm in the \"loved it\" category. This book charmed my pants off. Seriously, why am I not wearing pants? Be right back....okay, better.... Now, it's not easy to charm me. I'm a sarcastic pessimist. So, it really irritates the hell out of me to be charmed. Bad book! So here's the deal with this book: We have an unusual alternative world where there are \"others\", which includes every type of supernatural creature, living among humans. But, they are separated, by t Some people loved it, some hated it. I'm in the \"loved it\" category. This book charmed my pants off. Seriously, why am I not wearing pants? Be right back....okay, better.... Now, it's not easy to charm me. I'm a sarcastic pessimist. So, it really irritates the hell out of me to be charmed. Bad book! So here's the deal with this book: We have an unusual alternative world where there are \"others\", which includes every type of supernatural creature, living among humans. But, they are separated, by their own choice, and live in their own communities. Our story takes place in one of these communities where there are a few businesses that allow both human and others to shop together. Nothing brings several different species together like over-priced coffee made by a barista who may or may not kill you. (And you thought Starbucks baristas got grumpy. You spelled my name wrong on the cup! No, no, don't bite me. It's fine if you didn't spell Cindy with an \"i\"! ) The thing about this book that is so different is how little the supernatural people understand humans and humanity in general. They have always lived apart, so they have never tried to blend-in or adapt to human ways. This makes for sticky situations when they have to deal with humans. They have a position for a human liaison, who is supposed to help them with the deliveries and mail that comes to their community. They have always had trouble keeping them because they get scared away, or the others eat them. Try putting *may get eaten* in a job description and you might have a hard sell when it comes to getting employees. Meg is a blood prophet, which means if she bleeds, she sees a prophecy. She has been locked-up all of her life to make money for her \"owners\" by being cut to give paying clients their fortune. That's some messed-up shit right there. For some strange reason, she's unhappy with this situation and runs away... right into the others' human liaison job. The best part of this story is the others trying to understand their human, Meg. It is so hilarious and adorable. Many of them are shape-shifters and they have the qualities of the animals they shift to. The crow's reaction when Meg cries because the werewolf yelled at her: \"Simon was being mean. He made the Meg cry. I'm going over to the store to see if I can find a sparkly that will make her smile again.\" The bear, owl, and crow's reaction to seeing Meg & another human jump up on a chair because of a mouse: \"humans don't like mice?\" \"Not in the building!\" Meg said. \"And not around food,\" Merri Lee added. The three looked baffled. \"But, it's fresh meat,\" the brown-haired woman finally said. When Meg was upset because one of the wolves threatened to eat her, and Simon, the main wolf was trying to make her feel better: Not sure what to do, he gave her cheek a gentle lick. This is what made the book so charming to me. The author didn't try to humanize or sexualize the others. They were not human, and they did not think like humans. It was such a different take on supernatural characters. Also, there was NO romance. NONE! But, I never missed it at all. The interactions between Meg and her new friends was more than entertaining. I am looking forward to continuing this series. ...more Review courtesy of All Things Urban Fantasy Reminiscent of Charles de Lint and Patricia Briggs, WRITTEN IN RED is urban fantasy the way it should be written. There is nowhere near enough space here to describe everything that I loved about this book, so I\u2019ll just touch on a few. From the moment Meg stumbled into the Others land, half frozen, and sighed with relief at the H.L.D.N.A sign (Human Law Does Not Apply), I was intrigued. When the terra indigene (shifters, vampires, and elementals) she me Review courtesy of All Things Urban Fantasy Reminiscent of Charles de Lint and Patricia Briggs, WRITTEN IN RED is urban fantasy the way it should be written. There is nowhere near enough space here to describe everything that I loved about this book, so I\u2019ll just touch on a few. From the moment Meg stumbled into the Others land, half frozen, and sighed with relief at the H.L.D.N.A sign (Human Law Does Not Apply), I was intrigued. When the terra indigene (shifters, vampires, and elementals) she met spoke quite candidly about how they regularly ate humans for infractions as minor as trespassing or failing to leave a store the second it closed, I was hooked. That same sense of wonder and delight only increased as I learned about Meg and the cassandra sangue (blood prophets) who were treated like property by their Controllers. As a protagonist, I\u2019ve never encountered a character quite like Meg. Kept locked up and educated only in ways that would help her describe her prophecies, she\u2019s only ever seen pictures and small videos of life, never experienced them for herself, until she escapes and discovers a different kind of danger with the Others. And yet, unlike most humans, she\u2019s not paralyzed with fear and hatred by the terra indigene. She shows them kindness because it had been the one thing she\u2019d always been denied, and in return, they don\u2019t eat her. Gradually, they begin to rely on one another and Meg even befriends some of the most lethal of their kind. WRITTEN IN RED isn\u2019t just the best urban fantasy of this year, it may be one of the best ever. The Others are not softened or even humanized in any way. They don\u2019t pursue romantic relationships with their food and they make no apologies for the way they live. There is an awe inspiring sense of pride and protectiveness that they posses, almost a code that brought to mind the wolf packs in Patricia Briggs books. The characters are brilliantly realized with flaws and strengths uniquely theirs, and the writing is textured and inviting. The worldbuilding, though, is the true star of the story, just as it should be in urban fantasy. WRITTEN IN RED is my favorite urban fantasy since Patricia Briggs and Ilona Andrews wooed me into a forever love affair with this genre. From the gorgeous and frightening world that is similar but deliciously other from ours, to the tightly written suspense plot, and the characters who are so primal and wild and so very not human. I can\u2019t gush enough. I plan to devour Ms. Bishop\u2019s backlist while I endure the wait for the next book in The Others series. Sexual Content: References to sex ...more A riveting first installment! Buddy read with my lovely friend Simona . What better friend to gush with over Simon, eh? A second sign was taped to the inside of the door. She stared at it for a long time, despite her numb feet and the freezing temperature. WANTED: HUMAN LIAISON APPLY AT HOWLING GOOD READS (AROUND THE CORNER) There are two reasons I would apply for this job: 1. I'd work at a bookstore called Howling Good Reads. 2. Simon. THIS IS MY SIMON. Terra indigene Wolf, shapeshifter, leader of th A riveting first installment! Buddy read with my lovely friend Simona . What better friend to gush with over Simon, eh? A second sign was taped to the inside of the door. She stared at it for a long time, despite her numb feet and the freezing temperature. WANTED: HUMAN LIAISON APPLY AT HOWLING GOOD READS (AROUND THE CORNER) There are two reasons I would apply for this job: 1. I'd work at a bookstore called Howling Good Reads. 2. Simon. THIS IS MY SIMON. Terra indigene Wolf, shapeshifter, leader of the pack, fluffly sweetheart. To be honest, I went into this with weak knees (because of the grenre) yet high expectations (because of the hype). You see, I had grown tired of paranormal a long time ago (*waves at puberty*) and I expected to have a would-have-loved-this-a-few-years-ago moment. Oh, what a fool I was. Where do we start The books starts out with the main character Meg fleeing her captors in a blizzard and finding shelter in the Courtyard, a part of the city governed by the Terra indigene (= shapeshifters and... other creatures). Human law does not apply in the Courtyard, which makes it a good place to find cover for the runaway. What made me enjoy this book so much \u263c Meg is a sweet, innocent main character that will grow on you from the first chapter. She has a special gift , which is why she had been locked up for most of her life until she ran away. Frankly, she\u2019s new to all things human \u2013 for example, she doesn\u2019t know how to use a microwave. Other things, like driving a car, she has only ever seen on a screen, which is why her chapters also focus on how she deals with everyday life. Her innocence, and therefore lack of fear , is what has her get along well with the residents of the Courtyard. Now, normally, I'd tire of a character like this one after five chapters tops (I like my MCs badass and snarky!), but I think the whole package of Meg \u2013 her trauma, her courage, her determination, her physical weakness and social awkwardness \u2013 was what made me like her so much. \u263c There is a rich diversity of characters regarding both appearance and personality. We have several wolves, a few crows, a vampire, spirits and something I could probably describe closest as a medusa. With the diversity of characters comes a variety of POVs (all in 3rd person). Some of them are also narrated from animal POVs (as in, when Terra indigene shapeshift), which was especially exciting. \u263c SIMON. Have I mentioned how much I love Simon? Yes? Yes. I have a soft spot for love interests who try to resist caring with all their willpower but their little hearts just get the better of them. You\u2019re not sold on him yet? Have I told you how adorably he cares for his little wolfy nephew, Sam ? Is your oestrogen level spiking now? Ok, good. \u263c In opposition to YA mainstream, Meg is 24 years old. Adult protagonists can be cool, ya know? Even if she doesn\u2019t exactly behave that way. Furthermore, Meg is not one of those insanely beautiful snowflakes. To the wolf shapeshifters, her dyed red hair stinks, which is hilarious. And her body is scattered with scars. \u263c Speaking of the scars: Meg has an intriguing gift , visions evoked by cutting her skin, which makes her so valuable. I also liked how the author broached the topic off addiction and other consequences with regard to her gift. \u263c The slow burn romance. Do you see that thing in motion there? That\u2019s my ship setting sail. \u201cThe sweatshirt was big on her and she looked ridiculous. He liked it. And he liked that she was wearing something that carried his scent.\u201d The missing 5th star \u2601 The pacing. The beginning sucked me in but the middle went a little slack there, focusing mostly on Meg\u2019s new life and her first ever friendships. Don\u2019t get me wrong: I devoured this book. I was supposed to read 4 chapters a day and couldn\u2019t stick to it Ask Simona! However, it was like the characters had to literally pull the plot along for a while, which is why I took away a star. The ending, though. BAM. And that little plot twist the author sneaked into the last chapter had me go a little haywire. \u2601 The world-building was a mishmash of fantastical and paranormal elements. It seems to take place in an alternative America, so the low fantasy and reality kind of\u2026 blur. I would have appreciated it more if the author had either stuck with paranormal or created a completely new and unique universe. \u2601 This is just me being a royal, psychological pain in the ass, I know. But I felt mildly bothered by the way little Sam shook off his trauma by befriending Meg. I had a hard enough time believing every single Terra indigene would grow fond of her, I mean, good manners don't win points with everyone. But trauma is a serious topic , which was \u2013 in my opinion \u2013 handled or overcome a little too easily. I still love Sam's and Meg's friendship, though. Guess who I'll be reading Murder of Crows with? --> Simona! ...more", "Title": "Written in Red"},
