{"Comments": "I haven't read <---A>Jeffrey Archer</---A> for years, and now I wonder why. This new series featuring <---C>Harry Clifton</---C>, son of a dockworker (or is he the son of an upper crust owner of a huge shipping line?), and his climb through the British public school system is going to be a delight if this first one of five is any indication. Make no mistake,<---M> this is not a Pulitzer</---M>, but it is good, solid storytelling, with bold characters, a world wide setting, and a story that has enough twists, turns, and sneaky heart-s I haven't read Jeffrey Archer for years, and now I wonder why. This new series featuring Harry Clifton, son of a dockworker (or is he the son of an upper crust owner of a huge shipping line?), and his climb through the British public school system is going to be a delight if this first one of five is any indication. Make no mistake, this is not a Pulitzer, but it is good, solid storytelling, with bold characters, a world wide setting, and a story that has enough twists, turns, and sneaky heart-stoppers to definitely merit the label \"page turner.\" The story involves Harry, as he grows from an angelic choirboy into an intelligent, hardworking young man faced with the difficult choice of going to Oxford upon graduation from the US equivalent of high school, or joining the armed forces as Britain enters the war against Hitler. His romance with the sister of his best friend, together with some of the aforementioned story twists makes his choice even more difficult. Harry's mother, a hard-working widow, who takes a series of back-breaking jobs to help with Harry's expenses, is harboring a secret about Harry's parentage. This secret, if revealed could destroy lives, and Archer skillfully weaves his story around it. My only problem with the book was the absolutely sucker punch ending. I was left gasping, yelling \"Don't do that to me!!.\" I will be among thousands lined up to get my hands on the second book in the series to find out what happens next. The Clifton Chronicles promises to keep us all enthralled for several years to come. ...more Sometimes you read a book everyone else seems to loveLoveLOVE and then wonder if you bought the same book everyone else did because as far as you're concerned, it stank. For me, that would be this book. The author goes to great lengths to convince us that yes, the Main Character is indeed a brilliant child/man with unseen depths and superb intellect. We must believe this because of the great lengths other characters go to ensure that the Main Character has the means to build on his future, and th Sometimes you read a book everyone else seems to loveLoveLOVE and then wonder if you bought the same book everyone else did because as far as you're concerned, it stank. For me, that would be this book. The author goes to great lengths to convince us that yes, the Main Character is indeed a brilliant child/man with unseen depths and superb intellect. We must believe this because of the great lengths other characters go to ensure that the Main Character has the means to build on his future, and the same supporting characters are always engaged in conversation talking about how brilliant Main Character is and conspiring to make sure a tiny kid does not know that everyone is working in collusion to get him to accept opportunities unavailable to other, lesser children of his socioeconomic class. Since Main Character is brilliant, but would refuse the help of those who love him. I haven't come across that sort of blatant ass-kissing of a fictional character since I read Stephanie Meyer's homage to the Supreme Glorious Awesome Majestic Sparkleness that is His Magnificence, Edward Cullen.<---F> Also known as the Twilight books</---F>. The story seems disconnected and very patched together. The overlapping time-lines from the perspective of multiple characters make for tedious reading. The author attempts to end every chapter with some sort of mysterious tease, clearly intended to make the reader curious but it gets annoying after a bit because it always ends in predictable anti-climax. I will not be reading the rest of the series. If I had to sum up my opinion of this book in one sentence, it would be \"Honey, could you pass me the Excedrin?\". ...more What a fantastic book. Not just in plot, but in nuance too. This was the first book I read by Jeffrey Archer, but I have every intention of reading many more after this one. This book is set up so that each section is from one person's perspective. Harry, Maisie, Jack Tar, Hugo, Giles and Emma all get a section. (Harry gets the first and last section. Maisie gets an extra few pages in the prologue.) Sounds like a common set up, but here is where it gets really interesting: each section starts wi What a fantastic book. Not just in plot, but in nuance too. This was the first book I read by Jeffrey Archer, but I have every intention of reading many more after this one. This book is set up so that each section is from one person's perspective. Harry, Maisie, Jack Tar, Hugo, Giles and Emma all get a section. (Harry gets the first and last section. Maisie gets an extra few pages in the prologue.) Sounds like a common set up, but here is where it gets really interesting: each section starts with a first person narrative as the first chapter. The remaining chapters are told by a third present omnipresent narrator still focused on that character. The narrator occasionally provides some insight into what the other people currently in the scene are thinking. The best part, in my opinion, is that these narrations overlap. I have seen books where each section tells the next part of the story, and I have seen books where each section tells the same story from multiple perspectives. Each narration, while covering part of the same story, also moves the story forward. The beautiful part of this was that the overlapping parts focused on the things that THAT character found important or were relevant to that character. Therein lies the proof of amazing writing and a thorough understanding of how people think. These characters are extremely well developed. We are even given a chance to look into the world through the eyes of the book's villain. Each character's story fills in gaps left in previous issues because either that character didn't think it was that important or because the previous narrator didn't know. This gives the story a mild sense of mystery and a huge sense of the inter-connectedness of people. This is a story about coincidences, about what people will do for love, about how life can go full circle, and how people get their due. This is a story about friendship, about the way different events are important to different people, and about how the actions of others - that we don't even know about - can affect so many aspects of our lives. This is a story about unfortunate circumstances, about class bigotry, and about redemption. This is a beautifully written book. Review of Clifton Chronicles #2 The Sins of the Father : http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12... ...more Apparently, this is a bestseller - a book that loads of people around the world have devoured. And I get why that is because it is a pretty straight-forward, easily read story about several families, several destinies and several points of view that entwine. Especially the beginning of this historical family saga had me intrigued because it tells enchantingly about these three boys and their struggles on a boarding school. However, as my reading progressed the story became more and more redundan Apparently, this is a bestseller - a book that loads of people around the world have devoured. And I get why that is because it is a pretty straight-forward, easily read story about several families, several destinies and several points of view that entwine. Especially the beginning of this historical family saga had me intrigued because it tells enchantingly about these three boys and their struggles on a boarding school. However, as my reading progressed the story became more and more redundant and predictable, and especially towards the end it felt like Jeffrey Archer included historical aspects to the story just for the sake of accentuating the history that was going on simultaneously to the characters' lives. It didn't feel natural for him to suddenly talk about Churchill and his actions up to the Second World War. Also, this is one of those books that you should read for its story, not for its writing. Not that there's anything absolutely wrong with the writing, but at times it becomes moralizing, and all the way through it is written in a language that is easily and quickly read. All in all, the beginning of this novel intrigued me, but having now finished it I don't think I'm going to continue reading this long family saga. It just didn't impress me enough, even though I will say that this first book was definitely an entertaining read. ...more <+++>Only Time Will Tell</+++> (The Clifton Chronicles) by Jeffrey Archer was an enjoyable book. I listened to this book and the narrator was really good and very well suited to the story. I really enjoy family sagas and this was no exception with its well formed characters, a flowing and twisting tale and a little social history to keep the reader entertained. This book reminded me a little of Downton Abbey and I think readers who enjoyed that series will really enjoy the clifton Chronicles. I was a little di <+++>Only Time Will Tell</+++> (The Clifton Chronicles) by Jeffrey Archer was an enjoyable book. I listened to this book and the narrator was really good and very well suited to the story. I really enjoy family sagas and this was no exception with its well formed characters, a flowing and twisting tale and a little social history to keep the reader entertained. This book reminded me a little of Downton Abbey and I think readers who enjoyed that series will really enjoy the clifton Chronicles. I was a little disappointed with a couple aspects of the story but overall an enjoyable read. I will probably in time download the second book as it was easy listening. ...more This saga is the first in what is to be at least a three-book set (quite possibly more) entitled the Clifton Chronicles, centered around the character Harry Clifton. Relatively plotless, the story was however so engaging it was difficult to put down, with the interesting technique of revealing the tale little by little from different character's points of view. We hear from Harry's mother Maisie, his best friend Giles, Gile's sister Emma, Gile's father Hugo, Harry's friend \"Old Jack\", and from H This saga is the first in what is to be at least a three-book set (quite possibly more) entitled the Clifton Chronicles, centered around the character Harry Clifton. Relatively plotless, the story was however so engaging it was difficult to put down, with the interesting technique of revealing the tale little by little from different character's points of view. We hear from Harry's mother Maisie, his best friend Giles, Gile's sister Emma, Gile's father Hugo, Harry's friend \"Old Jack\", and from Harry himself on a couple of different occasions. Spanning the period between the world wars (roughly 1920-1940) and set in Britain, this first book traces Harry\u2019s school career to his likelihood of entering the Navy as it seems war with Hitler is on the horizon. The struggles of his mother to finance Harry\u2019s upbringing (his father is dead) are particularly engrossing, and the intrigue of Harry\u2019s father\u2019s circumstances add an element of suspense to this entertaining novel, which ends with a bombshell of a cliffhanger! Like most readers, we can hardly await the second installment! ...more It is very frustrating to assign stars on GR. Seems to me that \"It's ok\" should be smack in the middle followed by \"I liked it\" and \"I loved it.\" This book was OK. Average. Predictable but entertaining beach read or exercise, driving story. I listented to it and it made my 3 miles on the treadmill bearable and that is what I want in an audiobook. It was well written because Archer is incapable of writing poorly. My major beef is that we get to the end AND IT JUST STOPS. I realize that there are It is very frustrating to assign stars on GR. Seems to me that \"It's ok\" should be smack in the middle followed by \"I liked it\" and \"I loved it.\" This book was OK. Average. Predictable but entertaining beach read or exercise, driving story. I listented to it and it made my 3 miles on the treadmill bearable and that is what I want in an audiobook. It was well written because Archer is incapable of writing poorly. My major beef is that we get to the end AND IT JUST STOPS. I realize that there are 5 sequels coming, but most authors do write books that can stand alone, even though there are sequels. This goes for relatively new authors such as Suzanne Collins. Archer, having been around since the year of the flood, knows better. Shame on him. Shame also on St. Martin's Press who get an F for editing. The protagonist in this book is arrested in the U.S. at the beginning of WW II and the cops read him his rights!?!? I think not. The Miranda rule made its debut 20 years AFTER the war ended. Methinks that Archer and his editors have been watching too much Law and Order! ...more I loved Harry's story of love, loyalty, strife, friendship and his persistence for excellence. Jeffrey Archer hits it out of the park with this epic tale of a young boy trying, with the help of his friends and family, to make his life something no less than extraordinary. What an excellent beginning to a wonderful adventure. I am definitely going to start immediately with book two that covers Harry's young adult life. The narratives by both, Roger Allam and Emilia Fox were spot on and helped to I loved Harry's story of love, loyalty, strife, friendship and his persistence for excellence. Jeffrey Archer hits it out of the park with this epic tale of a young boy trying, with the help of his friends and family, to make his life something no less than extraordinary. What an excellent beginning to a wonderful adventure. I am definitely going to start immediately with book two that covers Harry's young adult life. The narratives by both, Roger Allam and Emilia Fox were spot on and helped to push this book to a five star for me. ...more I really enjoyed this. Archer did such a great job in setting up a solid story while creating memorable characters. So excited to get to the rest in this series... one benefit to waiting so long to start this series is not having to wait for the next book. Happy dance! \u201cSome people stand by you in your darkest hour, while others walk away; only a select few march toward you and become even closer friends.\u201d As usual, the master story teller weaves a beautiful story about the lives of two boys, Harry Clifton and Giles Barrington who become fast friends in school. The book is about two families, Cliftons and Barringtons who live at the two extremes of the social strata. All the characters in the book are interesting, especially the soldier Jack Tarrant, who takes charge of Harry Clifton's life guiding him and playing his mentor. This is a story of friendship, sacrifice and love. Need to pick up the 2n As usual, the master story teller weaves a beautiful story about the lives of two boys, Harry Clifton and Giles Barrington who become fast friends in school. The book is about two families, Cliftons and Barringtons who live at the two extremes of the social strata. All the characters in the book are interesting, especially the soldier Jack Tarrant, who takes charge of Harry Clifton's life guiding him and playing his mentor. This is a story of friendship, sacrifice and love. Need to pick up the 2nd instalment of the Clifton Chronicles off my shelf soon ! ...more 3.5 stars The ending was a cliffhanger which ticks me off. I am always hesitant to start another series, but I've heard such great praise for The Clifton Chronicles, that when \"Only Time Will Tell,\" the first in the series, was offered as a free ebook, I snatched it up. Plus the rest of the series is available from my library on OverDrive, so I definitely plan to continue on. With that cliffhanger, do I have a choice? It's a wonderful cast of characters, reminiscent (IMO) of Peyton Place, and I ho 3.5 stars The ending was a cliffhanger which ticks me off. I am always hesitant to start another series, but I've heard such great praise for The Clifton Chronicles, that when \"Only Time Will Tell,\" the first in the series, was offered as a free ebook, I snatched it up. Plus the rest of the series is available from my library on OverDrive, so I definitely plan to continue on. With that cliffhanger, do I have a choice? It's a wonderful cast of characters, reminiscent (IMO) of Peyton Place, and I hope the author doesn't take offense at that. It's just what I think instantly describes the circumstances here...rich kid/poor kid... social classes intermingling... innocent children/ sinful parents, in small town Bristol, England, where everyone knows everyone else. And the The Sins of the Father are Best Kept Secret . ...more I read this on my husband 's recommendation. He really enjoyed it and went on to read the next in the series. I liked it but not as much. I was not comfortable with the way the wedding was handled and thought the whole thing was melodramatic. I also found the way so many miscellaneous adults were working behind the scenes to make sure the young Harry achieved his destiny was unrealistic and overdone. On the other hand the book was well written, some of the characters we're very well done and I f I read this on my husband 's recommendation. He really enjoyed it and went on to read the next in the series. I liked it but not as much. I was not comfortable with the way the wedding was handled and thought the whole thing was melodramatic. I also found the way so many miscellaneous adults were working behind the scenes to make sure the young Harry achieved his destiny was unrealistic and overdone. On the other hand the book was well written, some of the characters we're very well done and I feel a spark of interest in Harry's future. Luckily for me my husband has bought all the books so I have them available as soon as I am ready. ...more \u201cSome people stand by you in your darkest hour, while others walk away; only a select few march toward you and become even closer friends.\u201d \u201cOnly Time Will Tell\u201d \u2013 to say I enjoyed reading this first book in the Clifton Chronicles would be an understatement. Jeffrey Archer is a master storyteller: Clean, captivating writing; clever interwoven plot(s); and well-developed characters of great distinction. Whether loved or despised, I was fully entranced by, and invested in each character\u2019s history, \u201cSome people stand by you in your darkest hour, while others walk away; only a select few march toward you and become even closer friends.\u201d \u201cOnly Time Will Tell\u201d \u2013 to say I enjoyed reading this first book in the Clifton Chronicles would be an understatement. Jeffrey Archer is a master storyteller: Clean, captivating writing; clever interwoven plot(s); and well-developed characters of great distinction. Whether loved or despised, I was fully entranced by, and invested in each character\u2019s history, actions, reasoning, mannerisms, strengths, weaknesses and nuances. I absolutely agree with my friend Judi: I love this novel! I\u2019m thrilled to have read it. And I\u2019m even more thrilled San Diego County Library system has every book in series. Such an epic tale - the Clifton\u2019s and Barrington\u2019s - defies concise categorization; drama, mystery, history, family-saga, friendship, culture, love, suspense . . . all standout elements. You could even add war as a sub-category; the first half of the story is influenced by aftereffects of WWI, and the latter half ushers in the Second World War. Speaking of latter halves \u2013 Gadzooks - what a plot twist!!! Talk about a cliffhanger that makes you yell: \u201cNO WAY!! WHAT?????????\u201d Archer certainly knows how to insure next in series sales! And Jeffrey Archer knows how to write a FIVE STAR story that casts a wide reader-appeal net. Hook-Line-and-Sinker, he's reeled me in for the next installment: The Sins of the Father. ...more Having retired two years ago, I took up reading, and have averaged one novel a week. The authors I enjoy include Vince Flynn, Lee Child, John Grisham, David Baldacci, Brad Thor, Daniel Silva, Nelson DeMille, Alex Berenson,Steve Martini, Joel Rosenberg, and Robert Ludlum. In December 2012, I read my first Jeffrey Archer novel and am now hooked. He is the best story teller I have read in the past two years. I loved Honor Among Thieves, Sons of Fortune, and Prisoner of Birth. However, his new trilo Having retired two years ago, I took up reading, and have averaged one novel a week. The authors I enjoy include Vince Flynn, Lee Child, John Grisham, David Baldacci, Brad Thor, Daniel Silva, Nelson DeMille, Alex Berenson,Steve Martini, Joel Rosenberg, and Robert Ludlum. In December 2012, I read my first Jeffrey Archer novel and am now hooked. He is the best story teller I have read in the past two years. I loved Honor Among Thieves, Sons of Fortune, and Prisoner of Birth. However, his new trilogy CLIFTON CHRONICLES is just superb. He allows the reader to really get involved with the characters. I feel like I am almost a member of the Clifton clan. ONLY TIME WILL TELL is the 1st of the three novels Mr. Archer has written regarding the Cliftons. His 2nd Clifton novel, THE SINS OF THE FATHER, is equally engrossing. Although the plots are not \"hair-raising\" as those by many of the authors mentioned previously, they are masterfully written in a manner that causes me to turn the pages as rapidly as possible. Absolutely mesmerizing. I am really looking forward to the 3rd novel of the Clifton Chronicles, BEST KEPT SECRET, due this Spring. Jeffrey Archer has become my favorite author. ...more First, the good things about this book: It makes for a good read as it keeps you hooked throughout, with a cliff hanging suspense at the end of every chapter. I think I finished it in record time, considering I am a slow reader. But seriously? It felt like I was reading a soap opera. It was outright pushy and juvenile in its style of writing as the author tries so hard, rather too hard, to prove how the main character is exceptionally brilliant, a child prodigy and how the entire town of Bristol First, the good things about this book: It makes for a good read as it keeps you hooked throughout, with a cliff hanging suspense at the end of every chapter. I think I finished it in record time, considering I am a slow reader. But seriously? It felt like I was reading a soap opera. It was outright pushy and juvenile in its style of writing as the author tries so hard, rather too hard, to prove how the main character is exceptionally brilliant, a child prodigy and how the entire town of Bristol is co-conspiring to help him out. It seemed like every second page had something to corroborate his brilliance (even though it is done mostly through people discussing in conspiratorial whispers about his talent and how he must never know how they help him) or how Old Jack manages to know every possible important person in Harry's life from the war and engage them to help him. Also, there are far too many coincidences to not scoff at. I had no idea I had got myself into a trilogy, or maybe a pentalogy as some are stating! Even though I liked the pace and suspense initially, you just know when you have had too much of it. ...more This book now has a spot in my top 100 reads of all time. Going into this I didn't think that I would like it. It was so different from what I usually read. However I am very glad that I went ahead and read this! I loved this book so much. It is so dear to my heart. I honestly have no complaints about this book. That may seem hard to believe but it's true. Every character was well thought out and interesting. They each held their own in their chapters and I actually liked them all equally(apart f This book now has a spot in my top 100 reads of all time. Going into this I didn't think that I would like it. It was so different from what I usually read. However I am very glad that I went ahead and read this! I loved this book so much. It is so dear to my heart. I honestly have no complaints about this book. That may seem hard to believe but it's true. Every character was well thought out and interesting. They each held their own in their chapters and I actually liked them all equally(apart from the dastardly villain that is). The plot was engaging and original and kept my interest the entire time. The writing flowed beautifully and the author writes everything so masterfully that I had no choice but to devour this amazing book. I normally am a little skeptical when people rave like crazy in a review, but I suppose I am now joining their ranks. I would definitely recommend this novel. Thanks to Saint Martins Press and Jeffery Archer for hosting the giveaway that allowed me to experience the magic that is Mr. Archers writing. ...more Decidi ler este livro precisamente por n\u00e3o ter encontrado opini\u00f5es (infelizmente e injustamente pouco falado!) e al\u00e9m disto fui atra\u00eddo pela luz da sinopse! E, qual o meu espanto,fui completamente engolido logo nas primeiras vagas do livro e fui ficando cada vez mais extasiado com os cap\u00edtulos seguintes, querendo mais e mais, e ao mesmo tempo n\u00e3o querendo avan\u00e7ar depressa, s\u00f3 para estar por mais tempo com os personagens excepcionais. N\u00e3o quero resumir a hist\u00f3ria, caber\u00e1 aos leitores de escavar a Decidi ler este livro precisamente por n\u00e3o ter encontrado opini\u00f5es (infelizmente e injustamente pouco falado!) e al\u00e9m disto fui atra\u00eddo pela luz da sinopse! E, qual o meu espanto,fui completamente engolido logo nas primeiras vagas do livro e fui ficando cada vez mais extasiado com os cap\u00edtulos seguintes, querendo mais e mais, e ao mesmo tempo n\u00e3o querendo avan\u00e7ar depressa, s\u00f3 para estar por mais tempo com os personagens excepcionais. N\u00e3o quero resumir a hist\u00f3ria, caber\u00e1 aos leitores de escavar a hist\u00f3ria e encontrar o ouro escondido. Foi realmente uma excelente leitura e j\u00e1 estou super desejoso por adquirir o 2\u00ba que sair\u00e1 em Outubro, e que venham mais e depressa (desta saga s\u00e3o 6 livros!). ...more Reading this for the second time!... It is a very interesting tale of life with many reasonable twists and turns beginning with the main characters starting out around age 4 and moving through their lives. By the end of this book things can go many ways depending on what happens next. This book takes you across the entire gambit of hopes and dreams, excitements and disappointments , A bit of mystery and a lot of honor! I highly highly recommend this book and this series as it follows the lives o Reading this for the second time!... It is a very interesting tale of life with many reasonable twists and turns beginning with the main characters starting out around age 4 and moving through their lives. By the end of this book things can go many ways depending on what happens next. This book takes you across the entire gambit of hopes and dreams, excitements and disappointments , A bit of mystery and a lot of honor! I highly highly recommend this book and this series as it follows the lives of these 3 boys from their first year of school to Oxford or war... Hitler is attacking again and choices have to be made. I freely admit that tears rolled down my eyes more than once. Please read this book ...more Jeffrey Archer at his finest, beginning a heptalogy sure to entertain throughout. Harry Clifton comes from a poor family, where every benefit is earned and each hardship a hurdle. When he meets Giles Barrington he soon forges a life-long friendship, even if they come from different social circles. Clifton forges ahead to make a name for himself, while living under the shadow of never having met his father. While Clifton presumes Arthur Clifton died on the battlefields, the truth is known to a se Jeffrey Archer at his finest, beginning a heptalogy sure to entertain throughout. Harry Clifton comes from a poor family, where every benefit is earned and each hardship a hurdle. When he meets Giles Barrington he soon forges a life-long friendship, even if they come from different social circles. Clifton forges ahead to make a name for himself, while living under the shadow of never having met his father. While Clifton presumes Arthur Clifton died on the battlefields, the truth is known to a select few that he was involved in a horrific workplace incident, at the hands of Hugo Barrington. The reader also learns of Clifton's mother, Maisie, who seeks to put a troubled past out of her mind and make a name for herself, all while concerned that Harry might discover the truth about his father. As the story progresses, Harry continues to be scholastically sound, but his heart remains weak when it coms to young Emma Barrington, sister of Giles and eldest daughter of Hugo. Harry and Emma build a love deeply rooted in honesty, but may face insurmountable challenges because of one lie. As Harry deals with revelations on his wedding day, he flees and finds himself in a web of lies and legal troubles on the shores of New York, as the reader stares into the abyss at the wonderful cliffhanger left at the end of the tale. Archer begins the series with a splendid foundation, sure to offer many offshoots in the coming books. The book has the flavour of Follett's Century series and Rutherfurd's multi-generational novels, where the reader must pay attention not only to the story, but also the collection of characters and their nuances. Archer singles himself out by using seven narrators to tell the same story from their own point of view. These narratives add more to the story in a powerful and progressive manner. This is sure to keep readers wondering what lies ahead, the test of a well-crafted novel. So far things flow nicely and the characters come to life in true Archer fashion. However, no one is safe and no storyline is sure to remain on the straight and narrow. Kudos Mr. Archer for this wonderful introduction, with a number of great cliffhangers and dramatic twists. Bring on the next volume, posthaste. Like/hate the review? An ever-growing collection of others appears at: http://pecheyponderings.wordpress.com/ ...more Typical masterful Archer and what's more-it's book one of a seven-book series! Clifton is our hero, a charming choir boy born on the wrong side of the tracks who wins a scholarship and attends a swanky British public school. Surprise: point-of-view change about, oh, 5 times, so one hears the same portions of the story but blanks are filled in as the story progresses (I really enjoyed this approach). He goes to oxford, the Grand Tour, joins the Navy, and then he's faced with a grave decision. BOO Typical masterful Archer and what's more-it's book one of a seven-book series! Clifton is our hero, a charming choir boy born on the wrong side of the tracks who wins a scholarship and attends a swanky British public school. Surprise: point-of-view change about, oh, 5 times, so one hears the same portions of the story but blanks are filled in as the story progresses (I really enjoyed this approach). He goes to oxford, the Grand Tour, joins the Navy, and then he's faced with a grave decision. BOOM end of story! I'm starting book 2 tomorrow ...more I must say that much of this story reminded me of Great Expectations by Dickens; however, this was not because Archer writes in any way as lengthy and detailed as Dickens. Archer's story was quite detailed, painting the story in your mind so as to bring Harry and his friends to life. Even the villains are so human that their known lies are reasonable and make you second guess whether they might be such horrible people. But, the honorable Old Jack and other participants in Harry's life leave no d I must say that much of this story reminded me of Great Expectations by Dickens; however, this was not because Archer writes in any way as lengthy and detailed as Dickens. Archer's story was quite detailed, painting the story in your mind so as to bring Harry and his friends to life. Even the villains are so human that their known lies are reasonable and make you second guess whether they might be such horrible people. But, the honorable Old Jack and other participants in Harry's life leave no doubt who you should be rooting for because of their supportive natures. Like Great Expectations, Harry and his past remains a mystery though, clouding even the good deeds of his family friends because so many people have seemingly adopted him. This was so like the classics at times that I wondered when it was written, but thankfully Archer knows not to go too far with his descriptions and keeps the flow going. My only complaint was the repetition of certain scenes so we might see them through others eyes, but Archer dealt with that quickly enough that I could appreciate their perspective and not fault him for taking a step back in the story's timeline. I highly recommend this story to anyone who enjoys vivid characters and a coming of age story that highlights the best and worst in people. ...more I thought it was one of those books which you'd want to look in the eyes and say \"seriously?\" until I learned that it was a part of a trilogy, Archer is a great writer, I love his effortless flow, diction and that unique style. But I found none of those in this book. It was gripping nevertheless yet it lacked a smooth flow through the plot. There were some instances which i felt were outright silly eg the one where old jack waits until harry's wedding day to reveal the truth and call off the wed I thought it was one of those books which you'd want to look in the eyes and say \"seriously?\" until I learned that it was a part of a trilogy, Archer is a great writer, I love his effortless flow, diction and that unique style. But I found none of those in this book. It was gripping nevertheless yet it lacked a smooth flow through the plot. There were some instances which i felt were outright silly eg the one where old jack waits until harry's wedding day to reveal the truth and call off the wedding. Well he could've told Harry on several occasions without having to put them through so much heartache. Or storage Maisie could've nipped it in the bud. On the other hand, there wouldn't have been much to write if either of those had happened I guess. I wasn't aware of Archer's trilogy plans until I finished reading the book. I think I would've had an open mind then!! Oh well I would just have to wait patiently which is not one of my best traits. I usually wait until I could read it all in one go, exception being Harry potter. Anyway I would definitely recommend this for anyone who loves a good plot with impeccable writing. ...more Archer has the great gift of being able to write very complex stories - with many characters, changing points of view, important historical background, and repeated surprises - and keep the whole thing under his total control. I felt complete confidence that Archer had command of the story at every stage, right up until the last of many shocking events, which of course sets the stage for the next book in this family saga. This is a fairly long book which I nevertheless read straight through on a Archer has the great gift of being able to write very complex stories - with many characters, changing points of view, important historical background, and repeated surprises - and keep the whole thing under his total control. I felt complete confidence that Archer had command of the story at every stage, right up until the last of many shocking events, which of course sets the stage for the next book in this family saga. This is a fairly long book which I nevertheless read straight through on a 5 hour train ride and then two more hours in bed. I think the series will compare well with his previous very successful efforts. ...more This was my first Jeffrey Archer novel and I won it as a First Reads Giveaway. I enjoyed the story of Harry Clifton, his mother Maisie and the Barrington family. The story is told from several viewpoints from Harry Clifton, Maisie Clifton, Hugo Barrington (who is an utter mongrel), Harry\u2019s friend Old Jack Tar, Giles and Emma Barrington (children of Hugo) before reverting back to Harry at the end. Telling the story from several points of view like this, means that at times the details overlap. Us This was my first Jeffrey Archer novel and I won it as a First Reads Giveaway. I enjoyed the story of Harry Clifton, his mother Maisie and the Barrington family. The story is told from several viewpoints from Harry Clifton, Maisie Clifton, Hugo Barrington (who is an utter mongrel), Harry\u2019s friend Old Jack Tar, Giles and Emma Barrington (children of Hugo) before reverting back to Harry at the end. Telling the story from several points of view like this, means that at times the details overlap. Usually it adds another dimension to the story, but occasionally it can get a little repetitive. Blessed with a beautiful voice Harry, along with some help from a few interested parties, manages to acquire a musical scholarship to St Bedes. Boarding school is a far cry from life near the docks. But it is there he meets and becomes friends with Giles Barrington and Deakins. It is a friendship that stands Harry in good stead, even though he doesn\u2019t understand why Hugo Barrington, Giles\u2019 father doesn\u2019t like him. The story starts in 1920 and finishes in 1940 with a cliff hanger that leaves the reader wanting to know more. I immediately tried to get book 2 from my library but unfortunately they didn\u2019t have it on the shelves. The characters in this are well drawn and mostly likeable. Maisie makes some hard choices to give her son the education no-one in her family had ever had. It\u2019s a story of love, being a parent, friendship, sacrifice and hard work and a little bit of luck. I will be keeping my eyes out at the library for book 2 of this series and hope I am not left hanging too long ...more 11/2/15: Currently free on Audible when you purchase the kindle book which is still free! Audible: http://www.audible.com/pd/Fiction/Onl... Amazon: http://www.amazon.com/Only-Time-Will-... If you go to the Amazon page, you should be able to purchase the book and add audible narration at the same time. 10/31/15: Currently free on Amazon http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B005... This was a very good book and I'm excited about the next book of this series. If you like Jeffrey Archer, then you will like this book and series. I like the way author has narrated the story. It's different and interesting. I yet to other part of this series but I'm quite interested to know further. Contrary to expectation, I found this book disappointing. I was hoping for a fast-paced story with an intricate plot, and instead had to plough through the same events repeated several times over for three-quarters of the novel. Admittedly, the author's style is easy to read and his characters well-developed. Yet the overall impression was of going over the same ground again and again, like a detective searching for clues. Evidently it mattered hugely whether Harry was Hugo Barrington's son or n Contrary to expectation, I found this book disappointing. I was hoping for a fast-paced story with an intricate plot, and instead had to plough through the same events repeated several times over for three-quarters of the novel. Admittedly, the author's style is easy to read and his characters well-developed. Yet the overall impression was of going over the same ground again and again, like a detective searching for clues. Evidently it mattered hugely whether Harry was Hugo Barrington's son or not because the family title and business were at stake and the budding romance between Harry and Emma couldn't be allowed to continue if he was - yet despite this, as a reader, I simply didn't buy into the seriousness of the situation. In fact, I found Emma to be rather an insipid character who perhaps needed a little more exposure to life before her deep love for a man could be believed. What I did find convincing was the mentorship role that Old Jack had in Harry's life, and how this formed the decision he took at the end of the book to spare the good people in his life the pain of having to recognise him as a Barrington. It seems to me, on reflection, that the secret which only time would tell - namely, who Harry's real father was - is thus answered. Harry's true father was Jack, because it was jack who moulded him into the man he became. As for the twist in the tail of this book, it is obviously intended to pave the way for the sequel, which explains why it is so far removed from the beginning of the book and so little concerned with supplying a tidy ending. All in all, \"Only Time Will Tell\" was a less memorable read than I had hoped, and I will not be breaking my neck to read the next in the series. ...more A heart warming story set back in the early 1900\u2019s which follows a young lad named Harry Clifton as he faces the many obstacles throughout his life\u2019s journey to manhood. There are also several strong characters in this book with chapters devoted to their own narration. It was an enjoyable tale and hard to put down. Also recommended is Jeffrey Archer\u2019s classic novel \u2018Kane & Abel\u2019 an extraordinary book not to be missed.", "Title": "Only Time Will Tell"},
