{"Comments": "In \"His Excellency,\" Joseph Ellis has written a very readable and concise synopsis on the life of <---C>George Washington</---C>. Though more recognizable for his works \"Founding Brothers\" and \"American Sphinx\" (<---B>about Thomas Jefferson</---B>), Ellis successfully undertakes the task of illuminating probably the most important figure in American history. Probably the most apparent burden struck by Ellis, and a theme readily illusive throughout his book, is the author's effort to avoid what he terms a certain \"hyperbo In \"His Excellency,\" Joseph Ellis has written a very readable and concise synopsis on the life of George Washington. Though more recognizable for his works \"Founding Brothers\" and \"American Sphinx\" (about Thomas Jefferson), Ellis successfully undertakes the task of illuminating probably the most important figure in American history. Probably the most apparent burden struck by Ellis, and a theme readily illusive throughout his book, is the author's effort to avoid what he terms a certain \"hyperbolic syndrome\" that is usually associated with any critical discussion of George Washington. In his introduction, Ellis rhetorically asks how we can \"accurately map the terrain\" of Washington's life \"without imposing the impossible expectations.\" Ellis appropriately warns that when examining Washington,<---M> \"if we find ourselves being merely celebratory</---M>, or its judgmental twin, dismissive, we should rub our eyes and look again.\" Ellis thereby begins with the premise that, as a biographer, anyone ought to begin their quest \"looking for a man rather than a statute, and any statutes that are encountered should be quickly knocked off their pedestals.\" Ellis effectively wipes the Washington-slate clean; he begins tabla rasa and ultimately does a great job at painting a portrait of Washington that, not-coincidentally, is akin to other statutesque conclusions previosuly concluded by others. My one complaint with the book involves the author's style. Often times, Ellis will draw conclusions about Washington's character and/or ideology which are based on statements to the effect of \"... all of the evidence points to thus.\" In coming across these repeated affirmations, I found myself wanting to know the details; wanting for Ellis to specifically delineate the evidence. Overall though, the author does a great job of inserting Washington's own words and the words of his peers and the book is adequately footnoted. On a positive note, Ellis, as with every good biography, deviates from the comfortable, all-too-common, historical-narrative-chronology (i.e., 'X' happened, then 'Y' happened, and after that 'Z' happened). Instead, at appropriate times, Ellis grasps certain themes throughout the book and interesting weaves them into the narrative coming back to them repeatedly. For example (and probably most importantly), one prominent topic throughout the book involved Washington's philosophy regarding slavery. At certain points in the book, Ellis illuminates Washington's then-current view on the topic, or more appropriately Washington's wrestle with and evolving view on the institution. Though anyone with a rudimentary knowledge of Washington knows that he ulitmately emancipated his slaves upon Martha's death via his will, Ellis does an outstanding job in ellucidating the nuances of Washington's ever-evolving philosophy. \"His Excellency\" is a great starting point for any study of the life of George Washington. Again Joseph Ellis has demonstrated his ability to bring a larger-than-life historical figures to a wide audience.<---F> I would highly recommend this book</---F>. ...more This was the first of two books I'm currently reading about George Washington. As part of my 2-year quest to read the top two biographies of each of our 43 U.S. Presidents, I began with this and Ron Chernow's behemoth \"Washington: A Life,\" a far more comprehensive treatment. Initially I preferred Chernow's book, but as I started to compare the two for interpretation, Ellis's gorgeous narrative writing quickly won me over. While no where near the depth of Chernow's tome, Ellis covers all the main This was the first of two books I'm currently reading about George Washington. As part of my 2-year quest to read the top two biographies of each of our 43 U.S. Presidents, I began with this and Ron Chernow's behemoth \"Washington: A Life,\" a far more comprehensive treatment. Initially I preferred Chernow's book, but as I started to compare the two for interpretation, Ellis's gorgeous narrative writing quickly won me over. While no where near the depth of Chernow's tome, Ellis covers all the main themes of Washington's life from youth, to bumbling but ambitious officer in the French and Indians wars, to much-maligned, beleaguered Revolutionary war hero, to his service as President -- and truly father of his new nation -- for the first two terms of the new federal government (whose survival was by no means guaranteed). It's impossible to not be in awe of Washington, who, unlike many great men throughout history, failed to control ambition and its interaction with the achievement of great power. He truly was a man of disciplined self-control who understood throughout his life that his place in history would be solely judged by how he responded to guiding the post-British new nation. It is quite obvious that had Washington chosen to serve as an enlightened King (of which many understood there was no such thing), he could have with widespread support. The new nation had no tradition of democracy and would have gladly welcomed their war hero -- our first true national celebrity -- as a welcomed benign sovereign chastened by a revolutionary re-definition of the relationship of power between ruler and ruled. Yet Washington understood the historic moment and his place in it and seized it for the better, much to our nation's historic benefit. He also understood the blot of human bondage and was determined to free his slaves upon his death, much to the chagrin of his family and fellow Virginia planters. (In fact, even the liberty obsessed Jefferson failed to match Washington's intellectual acknowledgement of the fundamental contradiction of slavery and democracy.) A highly pleasurable read and the perfect introduction to the life and times of George Washington. Highly recommend it. ...more I wish that more biographies were 270 pages. I find that nonfiction is a commitment for me - I read and absorb it much more slowly. Most biographies of people that I'm marginally interested in, then, become totally unrealistic reads. <+++>His Excellency: George Washington</+++> creates a compelling portrait of one of the most idealized heroes of American history, and it does so while remaining readable. This is a great introduction to Washington scholarship, and an even better portrait of a complex man. Ell I wish that more biographies were 270 pages. I find that nonfiction is a commitment for me - I read and absorb it much more slowly. Most biographies of people that I'm marginally interested in, then, become totally unrealistic reads. <+++>His Excellency: George Washington</+++> creates a compelling portrait of one of the most idealized heroes of American history, and it does so while remaining readable. This is a great introduction to Washington scholarship, and an even better portrait of a complex man. Ellis covers the entirety of Washington's life, sketching out the young soldier, the revolutionary general, and the president. Washington seemed to lead a charmed life; by rights, he should have died early, in the crushing battles at Monongahela during the French and Indian War. But no matter how many battlefields he rode across or how many political tensions threatened to crush the American experiment, Washington persevered - on the correct side of history. He's described a few times as \"prescient,\" and he even semi-accurately predicts the War of 1812. Washington's life and 17th-century American politics are almost interchangeable here, and Ellis does a great job of narrating how Washington was shaped by his extraordinary experiences. My favorite section of this book was Washington's presidency. Reading about the origins of the two-party system was especially appropriate this weekend, and it was also interesting to watch two future presidents scheme against their own cabinet (Jefferson: the original SNAKE IN THE GRASS). The personalities of this period are no less fascinating in passing, and it's crazy to understand how much power Washington wielded in early America. As Jefferson notes to Madison, \"Washington on horseback trumped anything the [opposition] could muster.\" If he hadn't been so concerned with his mark on history, Washington could have easily been the first benevolent ruler of a much different society. ...more \"...his trademark decision to surrender power as commander in chief and then president, was not...a sign that he had conquered his ambitions, but rather that he fully realized that all ambitions were inherently insatiable and unconquerable. He knew himself well enough to resist the illusion that he transcended human nature. Unlike Julius Caesar and Oliver Cromwell before him, and Napoleon, Lenin, and Mao after him, he understood that the greater glory resided in posterity's judgment. If you aspi \"...his trademark decision to surrender power as commander in chief and then president, was not...a sign that he had conquered his ambitions, but rather that he fully realized that all ambitions were inherently insatiable and unconquerable. He knew himself well enough to resist the illusion that he transcended human nature. Unlike Julius Caesar and Oliver Cromwell before him, and Napoleon, Lenin, and Mao after him, he understood that the greater glory resided in posterity's judgment. If you aspire to live forever in the memory of future generations, you must demonstrate the ultimate self-confidence to leave the final judgment to them. And he did.\u201d \u2015 <---A>Joseph J. Ellis</---A>, His Excellency: George Washington A good Ellis. Probably 3.5 stars. Like with American Sphinx: The Character of Thomas Jefferson Ellis knows his subject has been written about before and probably better. He isn't looking to redo or modernize the biography of George Washington. He only wants to do a couple things. He wants to narrowly explore the character of George Washington AND write a slick and easily digestible biography that will sell well. I know this sounds a bit harsh, but Ellis, while an academic historian, aims both bigger and smaller. He wants to be read. He wants to be bought. So, his biographies and histories tend to be smaller, easier to digest, and built to be sold on the Costco book tables. That isn't a bad thing. Joseph Ellis is in the same shelf as that popular pantheon of Founding biographers: Walter Isaacson , Jon Meacham , David McCullough , Edmund Morris , Ron Chernow and Doris Kearns Goodwin . He seems to be center mass of this group. Not as solid as Chernow or Morris, not as slick as Meacham or Isaacson. Anyway, my only real complaint about this biography is stylistic. I hated, HATED, his periodic asides (he called them Sittings ). I almost dropped a star just because of those. Ugh. It reminded me of the trend with weeklies or newspapers of blocking a quote from the text (callouts?). But this was worse. It was done like a third person observation of George Washington. They were uneven and just kinda stupid and weak. They weren't necessary, were distracting, and diminished the text. ...more 3 Stars - Good book Let me start by saying that this has been a rough few days. I'll admit I had a hard time reading this because of the current political situation in America. I think that put me in a sour mood, especially reading about the presidency. Not a fan of a certain and I became quite harsh. My tolerance for historical decisions that are rooted in racism and white superiority is nonexistent right now. I angrily sped through the last 150 pages (not necessarily a reflection of the book/Wa 3 Stars - Good book Let me start by saying that this has been a rough few days. I'll admit I had a hard time reading this because of the current political situation in America. I think that put me in a sour mood, especially reading about the presidency. Not a fan of a certain and I became quite harsh. My tolerance for historical decisions that are rooted in racism and white superiority is nonexistent right now. I angrily sped through the last 150 pages (not necessarily a reflection of the book/Washington but based on my emotional state). I'm trying not to let that affect my reading of this book but I wanted to put that out there. I appreciate that Ellis is upfront about how we romanticize historical figures but especially Washington. Washington has become this untouchable figure in American history and I\u2019m guilty of romanticizing him as well. He was by no means perfect but he was horrible either. We need to understands all sides of the person before we can really make a decision about their character. I had a problem with Ellis\u2019s discussion of Washington\u2019s slaves. Not the facts but how he analyzed them. I know he owned slaves and that\u2019s part of the problem when people romanticize him, they forget that. But Ellis seems to be stating the facts and then trying to justify it by saying well, Washington didn\u2019t treat them horribly. In fact, he treated them well and he really only say it as business, nothing personal. When Ellis does this, it seems to take away from his goal to deromanticize Washington. Overall, it's a short and relatively concise biography. It's not hard to read but is heavy on the facts. ...more http://eraumaveznaamerica.blogs.sapo.... Religion in the United States How to religion has been one of the presidential campaigns of a leading candidate for the presidential in the United States, I decided to withdraw this text of a Web site: The overwhelming majority of the 44 American presidents were religious. And all Christians. Only three of them (Thomas Jefferson, Andrew Johnson and Abraham Lincoln) were not affiliated to any church. Most presidents belonged to the Episcopal Church, including http://eraumaveznaamerica.blogs.sapo.... Religion in the United States How to religion has been one of the presidential campaigns of a leading candidate for the presidential in the United States, I decided to withdraw this text of a Web site: The overwhelming majority of the 44 American presidents were religious. And all Christians. Only three of them (Thomas Jefferson, Andrew Johnson and Abraham Lincoln) were not affiliated to any church. Most presidents belonged to the Episcopal Church, including George Washington. The Presbyterian Church had eight presidents. Most of the rest is divided between various Protestant churches such as Baptists, Methodists and other Protestant. Interestingly, the greatest American religious group, the Catholics, only had a President: John F. Kennedy elected in 1960. However, and contrary to what one might think, the religious movements have always maintained a separation with politics. This until 1976, when the Southern Evangelical communities are actively involved in the presidential campaign, to support enthusiastically the Baptist Jimmy Carter. In the following decade, with Ronald Reagan and the New Right (New Right), these evangelical movements approached decisively the Republican Party, winning an undeniable weight in its support base. It is believed that today account for about 1/3 of the electorate of the primary of the Republican Party. ...more First response: Ellis pontificates beyond my comfort level. I enjoy grand sentences, but this is way to much. His flourishing, over-bloated style does little to represent Washington (who, Ellis admits, was not a high intellectual.) He definitely covers the highs and lows, but he offers an incredible amount of personal opinion and unsubstantiated analysis, and even second-guesses motives. I am glad to know about Washington's life, and to have insight about him, but I have enjoyed very little of t First response: Ellis pontificates beyond my comfort level. I enjoy grand sentences, but this is way to much. His flourishing, over-bloated style does little to represent Washington (who, Ellis admits, was not a high intellectual.) He definitely covers the highs and lows, but he offers an incredible amount of personal opinion and unsubstantiated analysis, and even second-guesses motives. I am glad to know about Washington's life, and to have insight about him, but I have enjoyed very little of this book. Unfortunately, I am reading directly after finishing John Adams and Team of Rivals , and it does not compare. ...more I'm glad I read this book, but I'm glad I'm finished it too. I'm not sure if I'll read any others by this author. He interjects too much of his own opinions and spent lots of time denigrating his subject! Although I learned a lot, it was pretty dry and did not include enough flesh on the bones of history for me. No comparison to Walter Isaacson's conversational style, which I read just prior to this. Had I not, I may have enjoyed this one a whole lot more. Now on to John Adams! May the force be I'm glad I read this book, but I'm glad I'm finished it too. I'm not sure if I'll read any others by this author. He interjects too much of his own opinions and spent lots of time denigrating his subject! Although I learned a lot, it was pretty dry and did not include enough flesh on the bones of history for me. No comparison to Walter Isaacson's conversational style, which I read just prior to this. Had I not, I may have enjoyed this one a whole lot more. Now on to John Adams! May the force be with me! ...more I just returned from a visit to Washington, D.C. and Mount Vernon, so I'm in a patriotic mood. This is a very readable, enjoyable biography that attempts to explain Washington's character and motivations and to describe the influences which shaped his decisions. The book is fairly short and is written at a bird's-eye view, mostly lacking in the kind of human detail that I usually enjoy in a biography. It left me hungry for more details: I wanted to know more about his personal experience during t I just returned from a visit to Washington, D.C. and Mount Vernon, so I'm in a patriotic mood. This is a very readable, enjoyable biography that attempts to explain Washington's character and motivations and to describe the influences which shaped his decisions. The book is fairly short and is written at a bird's-eye view, mostly lacking in the kind of human detail that I usually enjoy in a biography. It left me hungry for more details: I wanted to know more about his personal experience during that winter at Valley Forge; I wanted to know more about his relationship with Martha, and perhaps it's petty, but I wanted to know more about his teeth. In the museum at Mount Vernon there is an entire alcove devoted to Washington's lifelong dental troubles, yet this book contains perhaps two sparse sentences concerning this issue which must have had a tremendous impact on his quality of life. ...more I think the best way for me to summarize this book is: George Washington's life, basically, sucked. As a young man, he was basically broke. So he marries Martha, the wealthiest widow in Virginia. And he marries her even though he's really in love with another man's wife. Then when he first goes to war he's practically a laughingstock. Fast forward to him commanding the army during the War of Independence and he has success! Yay! But then takes on the mantle of the presidency. Yeah, that's great a I think the best way for me to summarize this book is: George Washington's life, basically, sucked. As a young man, he was basically broke. So he marries Martha, the wealthiest widow in Virginia. And he marries her even though he's really in love with another man's wife. Then when he first goes to war he's practically a laughingstock. Fast forward to him commanding the army during the War of Independence and he has success! Yay! But then takes on the mantle of the presidency. Yeah, that's great and all, except when he wanted to leave after his first term, he got railroaded into a second term. Not to mention, during this second term, his closest \"friends\" were putting out propaganda behind his back saying he was old, senile, and unfit for the presidency. When he finally does get to retire after his second term as president, he doesn't really get to retire. People were always visiting Mount Vernon to see him and dine with him. The fact that this book even clearly states that Washington figured he and Martha didn't dine alone for almost 20 years. Ridiculous. Then, when it was finally time for him to die, how does it happen? Oh that's right, he gets some crazy infection in his throat and suffocates to death. Lovely life, huh? Some cool things that I learned. Washington, D.C. is located where it is because George thought it best to have the \"Federal City\" just north of Virginia to help the Virginians believe it was in the south. (Or something like that) I never knew, prior to reading this, that \"Commander in Chief\" wasn't always a presidential term. During the first half of this book when GW was being mentioned as the \"Commander in Chief\" I kept thinking, \"Um...did I miss where he became president?\" Only to then realize that I'm an idiot. :) It was very cool to read about the creation of our government and why decisions were made. And another thing that sucked for GW, he was our nation's guinea pig and really got crapped on in terms of people talking badly about him. But you've got to admit, even though he didn't always make the best decisions, he was the one that really and truly believed we could be independent. Lastly, I think it would be pretty awesome to be called Her \"Excellency\". :) ...more Joseph Ellis' \"His Excellency: George Washington\" is a well done brief biography of George Washington. Washington, surely, could be the subject of one of those massive bios, such as Chernow's \"Alexander Hamilton\" or \"Titan\" or Nasaw's \"Andrew Carnegie\" or Cannadine's \"Mellon.\" On the other hand, not all biographies need to be so massive. Ellis' work is insightful, provides a sense of Washington the person, and outlines the growth of his character, as he controls his ambitions. In 275 pages, we g Joseph Ellis' \"His Excellency: George Washington\" is a well done brief biography of George Washington. Washington, surely, could be the subject of one of those massive bios, such as Chernow's \"Alexander Hamilton\" or \"Titan\" or Nasaw's \"Andrew Carnegie\" or Cannadine's \"Mellon.\" On the other hand, not all biographies need to be so massive. Ellis' work is insightful, provides a sense of Washington the person, and outlines the growth of his character, as he controls his ambitions. In 275 pages, we get a pretty good perspective on \"the father of our country.\" This biography tries to steer a middle course between two different approaches to Washington. As Ellis says (page xi): \"In Washington's case the arc moves from Parson Weems' fabrications about a saintly lad who could not tell a lie to dismissive verdicts about the deadest, whitest male in American history.\" In placing him among other of the Founders, Ellis makes, I think, an insightful point (page xiv): \"It seems to me that Benjamin Franklin was wiser than Washington; Alexander Hamilton was more brilliant; John Adams was better read; James Madison was more politically astute. Yet each and all of these prominent figures acknowledged that Washington was their unquestioned superior.\" By the way, lines such as these make me scratch my head as to the critics of this book who attack the author for denigrating Washington. Parson Weems and his fantasies should not guide our consideration of Washington. He was a human being, not a demigod. And this book demonstrates why we should hold him in high esteem (while also realizing his human foibles and weaknesses). In his death and afterwards, Washington also demonstrated why he stood apart from other Founders. Jefferson was uncomfortable with slavery, but did nothing about his discomfort. Washington was uncomfortable, and worked to free his slaves upon his death. His will represented (page 263) \". . .his personal rejection of slavery. As we have seen, he had been groping toward this position for many reasons and for more than thirty years, more gradually than we might prefer, more steadily than most of his fellow slave owners in Virginia. He was, in fact, the only politically prominent member of the Virginia dynasty to act on Jefferson's famous words in the Declaration of Independence by freeing his slaves.\" The book provides a straightforward narrative of Washington's life. From the travails of his youth, to his efforts at developing a trade (e.g., as a surveyor), to his effort to becoming a military officer (culminating in both disaster and reputation in the French and Indian War), to his involvement in debates over independence in his own colony (Virginia), to his accession to general in the Continental Army, to his holding the army together under straitened circumstances, to his role in moving toward a Constitutional Convention, to his service as the first President. Noteworthy is the treatment of his learning to be the primary military commander during the Revolutionary War. Early on, his instincts told him to be aggressive; a number of defeats followed from this. Given the context of the war, this was not a winning strategy. He learned to be more careful and, following a more Fabian strategy, grew as commander and ended up triumphant at Yorktown. In his conclusion, Ellis notes that Washington had a towering ambition, a foul temper, and, understanding this, Washington fought to contain both of these characteristics with his single minded strength. He left office after two terms as president when he could have stayed on. He stepped down as General after the Revolutionary War when he need not necessarily have behaved as Cincinnatus. As a result, he set an example that reverberated through the next century of American history. This is a nice, although brief, rendering of Washington's life. The author makes nuanced judgments of Washington as a person and his legacy. As a result, he comes across as more than a cardboard caricature and as someone who genuinely deserves our respect and appreciation. As Ellis concludes (page 275), \". . .he understood that the greater glory resided in posterity's judgment.\" Unlike Napoleon, Caesar, Mao, and Cromwell, he did not hold on to the end, thus eroding his historical reputation and his ultimate effectiveness to the country that he had helped found. ...more Alas. Ellis wrote a fine (Pulitzer-winning) biography of Thomas Jefferson, who fell out with Washington during the latter's presidency: perhaps Ellis has inherited a bias against Washington from his earlier Jeffersonian scholarship? Who knows. After a few chapters left an odd taste I began skimming the book, heading to those situations where some anti-Washington writers have tended in the past to excoriate Washington simply because they could, finding that Ellis, while less blatantly scornful, do Alas. Ellis wrote a fine (Pulitzer-winning) biography of Thomas Jefferson, who fell out with Washington during the latter's presidency: perhaps Ellis has inherited a bias against Washington from his earlier Jeffersonian scholarship? Who knows. After a few chapters left an odd taste I began skimming the book, heading to those situations where some anti-Washington writers have tended in the past to excoriate Washington simply because they could, finding that Ellis, while less blatantly scornful, doesn't shy from slyly casting Washington in a dubious light at every opportunity. Ellis scatters historically inexcusable and unexplained negatives (e.g., 'scheming,' 'awkward', and the like) in his text, and early on he proposes an utter fiction, as though it is a legitimate historical theory: \"It is quite possible the he [Washington] copied out the [Rules of Civility] as a mere exercise in penmanship.\" No one the least bit familiar with Washington could honestly embrace such a fiction: Washington carried his personal palimpsest of these Rules with him until his death, and the results of his assiduous practice of them was often noted by contemporaries during his life. In brief, Ellis takes a well-known feature of the Washington persona and implies that its root was irrelevant. This is not scholarship. In lieu of this somewhat presentist and slyly sniping volume, otherwise generally well-researched as far as those actual facts chosen for presentation are concerned, I'd recommend instead any of Richard Brookhiser's works specific to George Washington. Disappointed! ...more \u201cHis Excellency\u201d is yet another biography about the foremost founding father George Washington. Author Joseph Ellis attempted to distinguish this work by focusing on the man\u2019s illusive character. The book manages to entertainingly retell a story about a person known to everyone, while simultaneously describing a personality known to few. Ellis dug deep into the 18th century records and put some life back into a legendary individual who has been dead for over 200 years. Its greatest strength is th \u201cHis Excellency\u201d is yet another biography about the foremost founding father George Washington. Author Joseph Ellis attempted to distinguish this work by focusing on the man\u2019s illusive character. The book manages to entertainingly retell a story about a person known to everyone, while simultaneously describing a personality known to few. Ellis dug deep into the 18th century records and put some life back into a legendary individual who has been dead for over 200 years. Its greatest strength is the character analysis Ellis strung together from historical fragments, letters, and events. He tears down myth and reveals a complex and amazingly ambitious individual with multiple character flaws, a troubled post-White House life, and a tortured personal journey towards the abolition of his slaves. \u201cHis Excellency\u201d also goes the distance in demonstrating what made Washington so successful in his personal life, as Commander in Chief of the Continental Army, and as the first President. To find fault with this book one must pause and consider if the analysis Ellis put forth is always correct. As Washington said and wrote little about his personal feelings and Martha destroyed their correspondence, many of the conclusions in the text appear to be based on loose guesswork and curious psychoanalysis. Yet another book about the topic of Washington\u2019s life seems redundant and at times accounts of the Revolutionary War are so evident as to only require a quick scan. However, if you want to know more about the person behind DC\u2019s towering stone monolith, the stoic face on the dollar bill, and the man who helped to shape our country at its beginning, this is definitely worth your time. ...more I enjoyed this biography. Beginnings are marked by remarkable people doing remarkable deeds. As time goes by, these events take on a mythical aura while the individuals become the \u201cstuff of legends.\u201d We do not see them as mortal beings; rather, we elevate them to a reverential status that separates them from the ordinary. The Founding Fathers of the United States fit into this category. Benjamin Franklin was considered the wisest, Thomas Jefferson the intellectual, John Adams the scholar, and Al I enjoyed this biography. Beginnings are marked by remarkable people doing remarkable deeds. As time goes by, these events take on a mythical aura while the individuals become the \u201cstuff of legends.\u201d We do not see them as mortal beings; rather, we elevate them to a reverential status that separates them from the ordinary. The Founding Fathers of the United States fit into this category. Benjamin Franklin was considered the wisest, Thomas Jefferson the intellectual, John Adams the scholar, and Alexander Hamilton the most brilliant; yet they all recognized George Washington as their superior. In 1775, he was unanimously elected by the Continental Congress to be commander-in-chief. He lost many battles, but continued, undaunted until the war was won. Portraits of George Washington show him as distant, even intimidating and cold. Yet, as his life unfolded, I envisioned him at 11 when he lost his father, at 21 when he was appointed emissary for the governor of Virginia, and at 23 as a brave young officer who gained recognition for his valour in the French and Indian War. I imagined him years later at Valley Forge, where he shared the cold winter months with his men. As a president, I saw him exercise sound judgment as he led a fledgling nation. At the end, he embraced death with grace and equanimity. http://ontheroadbookclub.com/ ...more Having just completed The Real George Washington, I thought it would be interesting to continue my study of the Founding Fathers with another book about Washington. I have to admit I didn't get very far. I read the first few chapters and then scanned the rest of the book. The book is lacking in a number of ways. First Ellis thinks that because he says it, it must be so. His references to primary materials is spotty at best. He is high on opinion, with little to back it up. For example, Ellis claim Having just completed The Real George Washington, I thought it would be interesting to continue my study of the Founding Fathers with another book about Washington. I have to admit I didn't get very far. I read the first few chapters and then scanned the rest of the book. The book is lacking in a number of ways. First Ellis thinks that because he says it, it must be so. His references to primary materials is spotty at best. He is high on opinion, with little to back it up. For example, Ellis claims little is known about Washington's earlier years. The Real George Washington finds plenty of material from which to build a portrait of Washington as a young man. My major complaint about this book is that Ellis views Washington and his actions through a prism of current social justice philosophy. History needs to be viewed in the context of the period and culture of that time and place. Certainly, opinion can be stated, but it should be done in a way that places it outside the actual events and is clearly defined as such. If you have time to read but one Washington biography, try The Real George Washington. Although the book may appear intimidatingly large, about half of it is notes, references, and original Washington writings. ...more For some time now I've wanted to find some book that helped with separating the fact from the fancy regarding the life and works of George Washington. This was a good choice I believe. I was able to see the very human side of Washington and his very mortal mistakes. He was not a womanizer as has been rumored, though he did seem to have some feelings in his younger days for another mans wife, but nothing intimate. Washington stated again and again that the hand of providence had spared him (partic For some time now I've wanted to find some book that helped with separating the fact from the fancy regarding the life and works of George Washington. This was a good choice I believe. I was able to see the very human side of Washington and his very mortal mistakes. He was not a womanizer as has been rumored, though he did seem to have some feelings in his younger days for another mans wife, but nothing intimate. Washington stated again and again that the hand of providence had spared him (particularly during the French Indian War) to take part in the formation of a new country. He knew he had been graced by the hand of providence to fill his roll as commander of the Continental Army and a few years later as the first President of the United States. It was very interesting to learn that Washington was at conflict with himself about the slavery issue. In his final will he freed the slaves that were 'his'. He didn't free them earlier because his wife Martha didn't have the same feelings about freeing slaves and at least half of the slaves were Martha's. His slaves and hers were intermarried and Washington never considered breaking up slave families. ...more Fair, balanced, and fantastically enlightening, Ellis paints an insightful portrait of America\u2019s greatest patriarch. Washington is an immense challenge for any biographer. His great stoicism, and mysterious personality that reveals itself so rarely \u2013 even more rarely because Martha burned all of their personal correspondence after his death \u2013 allow only the most skilled historians to gain insights into the man behind the icon. Fortunately, Ellis can credibly count himself among those most skille Fair, balanced, and fantastically enlightening, Ellis paints an insightful portrait of America\u2019s greatest patriarch. Washington is an immense challenge for any biographer. His great stoicism, and mysterious personality that reveals itself so rarely \u2013 even more rarely because Martha burned all of their personal correspondence after his death \u2013 allow only the most skilled historians to gain insights into the man behind the icon. Fortunately, Ellis can credibly count himself among those most skilled, and delivers a very honest portrait of Washington. He does not shy away from the morally controversial issues of Washington\u2019s life (particularly slavery and usurpation of Native American land). Instead he presents an account that both fully and justly explains Washington\u2019s political and personal failures \u2013 as well as his successes \u2013 in confronting these topics so critical to his posterity. At times, Ellis\u2019 language is a bit confusing and could be simplified for greater accessibility, but little more can be said to criticize this inspirational masterpiece. ...more Feeding my Hamilton the musical kick. Interesting to see more of Washington beyond the accepted picture of him as a stolid but not very intelligent leader. Also interested to see how much he used Hamilton's energy and zeal about Federalism to shield himself and to be able to portray himself as more neutral, when really Washington also wanted a strong national government. Also interesting to see how this viewpoint came out of Washington's experience as a war general; how difficult it was to comma Feeding my Hamilton the musical kick. Interesting to see more of Washington beyond the accepted picture of him as a stolid but not very intelligent leader. Also interested to see how much he used Hamilton's energy and zeal about Federalism to shield himself and to be able to portray himself as more neutral, when really Washington also wanted a strong national government. Also interesting to see how this viewpoint came out of Washington's experience as a war general; how difficult it was to command and manage an army without a strong central government to provide money, supplies, communication, and support. I also hadn't realized that Washington viewed himself as a bit of an outsider among the Virginian elite, and that he discerned early on that Virginian plantation owners lavish lifestyle based on debt and slaves would not be sustainable. I was also interested in learning more about Washington's complicated views on slavery and Native Americans. ...more Joseph J. Ellis' stated goal in writing this biography was to produce a book that people could actually read, and I think he really succeeds. His Excellency George Washington comes in under 300 pages, which is about a third of the length of David McCullough's fine John Adams . It really is hard to get to know the personality and character of someone so mythical as George Washington, but Ellis does a good job at displaying his virtues (which are many) along with his weaknesses. There is a popular Joseph J. Ellis' stated goal in writing this biography was to produce a book that people could actually read, and I think he really succeeds. His Excellency George Washington comes in under 300 pages, which is about a third of the length of David McCullough's fine John Adams . It really is hard to get to know the personality and character of someone so mythical as George Washington, but Ellis does a good job at displaying his virtues (which are many) along with his weaknesses. There is a popular notion that George Washington was the only man that could have won the War for Independence and successfully overseen the founding a new democratic nation. After reading the book, I am convinced that it is true. This book is surprisingly accessible, moving along briskly through Washington's eventful life, and I would recommend it to anyone. ...more Biography of the year for me. Ellis has produced a historical, thoughful, indepth, and yet readable story of one of the truly great men we have been given. While not an American, I am still allowed to have a respectful interest in some of the founders of your state. Washington, Adams, and Jefferson make a powerful triumvirate. These 300 odd pages about Washington left me wanting a little bit more depth about his early years, but that is my sole complaint about the book. This is a suggested read f Biography of the year for me. Ellis has produced a historical, thoughful, indepth, and yet readable story of one of the truly great men we have been given. While not an American, I am still allowed to have a respectful interest in some of the founders of your state. Washington, Adams, and Jefferson make a powerful triumvirate. These 300 odd pages about Washington left me wanting a little bit more depth about his early years, but that is my sole complaint about the book. This is a suggested read for anyone interested in the tale of a man who strove to live up to his principles. ...more This is a fantastic biography! It was filled with many nuances worthy of attention. I don't feel like I crawled inside Washington's heart or soul but I do feel like I understand him more as a flesh and blood man than the cartoon often told. It's hard not to be struck by how there really was no one else that could have done what Washington did. He was not only central in winning independence from British rule but also in nurturing a nation in its infancy. The author covers every facet of Washingt This is a fantastic biography! It was filled with many nuances worthy of attention. I don't feel like I crawled inside Washington's heart or soul but I do feel like I understand him more as a flesh and blood man than the cartoon often told. It's hard not to be struck by how there really was no one else that could have done what Washington did. He was not only central in winning independence from British rule but also in nurturing a nation in its infancy. The author covers every facet of Washington's life. You see his views progress and you truly understand that he was the exact right man born at the exact right time. It's as if looking back on his life, it was all choreographed. Just as all of us one day, if we live long enough, should be able to look back on our own lives and have it all make sense ~ every twist, every turn, perfect in every way. The author also illuminates how fragile it all was ~ for example, if the British had shown Washington more respect early on in his military career, he would have been thrilled to be an aristocrat serving the monarchy for the rest of his life. It was shocking to know that more Americans were signing up to fight for the British than alongside Washington toward the end of the war. Most thought that British rule was a forgone conclusion and that a little more domestic autonomy was all that was really hoped as an outcome. Knowing this really waters down the idea of Benedict Arnold being such a huge traitor. He was merely hedging his bets as most others were at the time, including Benjamin Franklin's eldest son (known as the second worst traitor after Benedict Arnold). In this light, Washington seems even more amazing as the underdog fighting what most colonists thought was a losing battle. Washington's bent to rather die than bow down to the British is what prevailed ultimately. He made bold choices and took suicidal chances that the British weren't expecting making their usually foolproof playbook useless. Over and over again, Washington made the decision that gave him the most momentum. And often it meant letting go of what he really wanted ~ like his first love. He chose to marry the widow Martha instead because to do so elevated his station. This is the same reason he wanted American independence ~ the road to greatness for him was not aligned with the British Empire. He was not the greatest military leader; he lost more battles than he won. But he was really good at learning as he went along and applying lessons learned in a meaningful way. So much of what he learned during the revolution informed his presidency. I think this book would be great for everyone to read. If for no other reason than to understand the political rhetoric we hear today. A few examples . . . STRONG CENTRAL GOVERNMENT Initially, the revolution wasn't about uniting the states and creating a nation. Not many thought beyond the sovereignty of states. In fact, this world view almost cost the revolution to be lost. Washington went into the revolution with this same bent but came out of it knowing that the only way to keep the states free was to unite as one. And the only way to accomplish this was with a strong central government. During the revolution, Washington was forced to ask for help state by state. He had a constant flow of untrained soldiers that could only serve for a year and a serious lack of supplies. Washington learned that this was no way to win a war or to grow a nation. He prevailed in spite of this and was smart enough to take this important lesson to his Presidency. DISINGENUOUS RHETORIC Did you know that many wealthy politicians and rich plantation owners wanted to impeach George Washington? Both Jefferson and Hamilton were part of Washington's cabinet. Their feud was the impetus for the two party system we have today. The idea of the Republican Party was kick-started by Jefferson and other wealthy plantation owners fearing the federal government legislating the end of slavery. In other words, pure economic self interest. Of course, they cloaked it in patriotic banter. But make no mistake, it was the same thing that sparked the American Revolution. Rich plantation owners wanting more money in their pockets. SURRENDERING POWER Of the many astounding things the author points to, the most astounding, is that Washington surrendered power more than once. There have been few men more ambitious than Washington, yet he had the wherewithal to do what had never been done before. Even today it's unusual ~ just look at how long politicians stay in power right now. He didn't surrender power because he was no longer ambitious, he walked away because he knew no amount of power could ever quell his thirst for more. He was also wise enough to know that future generations would not equate his greatness with power but instead if he thought about future generations and made decisions accordingly. DEBT AND GREED I had to pause to let it sink in that we were a nation founded on debt and greed. Two-thirds of the original colonists from England were running from their creditors. And the impetus for the American Revolution was also about money ~ rich plantation owners wanting to keep more money in their pockets. And as mentioned above, the rhetoric against a strong central government was birthed out of the fear that slavery would end if taken out of the states hands. This is not that different from today because a great amount of legislation is written by corporations and voted into law by politicians pretending to benefit \"we the people\" when in fact it's just self-serving. Lobbying organizations masquerading as tax-exempt educational associations play matchmaker with CEOs and politicians all the time. The CEO writes a law he would like voted in and the politician presents it as his idea and sells it as a benefit for everyday citizens. A lot of laws get voted in this way. It's much easier for a corporation to get their needs met state by state than federally. It's under the radar oftentimes ~ sort of like the tale of the frog in the water slowly being heated up not realizing he's being cooked. Also, when a politician speaks of a smaller government, it usually means putting tax dollars into a corporations pockets ~ private schools instead of public schools is one example ~ private prisons versus public prisons is another ~ private military subcontractors versus federal military is one more. Demanding lower taxes and smaller government usually is a mask for greed when spoken by millionaires, billionaires, CEOs, and politicians. Not all the time, but too often. SLAVERY I think the way the author discussed slavery was very thoughtful. Washington wanted to address slavery sooner than later but he knew if he pushed the issue, the nation would die in its infancy. It's hard to hear that he chose to delay the issue but in reality he knew that to divide the nation immediately after being united would mean there would be no more United States of America and that he would be the last president. The internal struggle with setting his own slaves free was enlightening. Slaves were second to land as an asset. They were a huge part of ones wealth. One could argue that they got wealthy off the labor of slaves so in reality were already amply rewarded financially. I think its a myth that all slaveholders weren't bothered by the morality of their choices, it's just that financial concerns weighed heavy on them. I'm not making excuses for anyone, I'm just trying to see this from another point of view besides my own. It seems that Washington's morality was held hostage by his finances. This isn't unlike some large corporations today. Also, he didn't split families so there was the problem of setting his slaves free when they were intermarried with his wives slaves (Martha had no intention of setting hers free and George could not force her to do so by any legal measure). He did set his slaves free after his death and did provide care for some of them through money left in his will. I believe he regretted not getting this right. It's a shame he didn't because the act of him freeing and caring for his slaves through bestowing land to the able and food and board for the very old would have probably ended slavery sooner than later. Washington died one of the richest, if not the richest founding father. He could have left behind something so much more valuable than assets. That of empathy. THE BRITISH EMPIRE As far as the British, I felt I understood better their motivation and miscalculations. In 1775, a compromise could have been waged instead of war but the British were a new empire, afraid if they granted domestic freedom for the colonies that the rest of their empire would demand the same and that would be it for the empire. They made the grave error of trying to quell the revolution via military might instead of mining a peaceful solution. ...more The ultimate sweetener is history. Incidents, men, women and happenings all achieve a sheen of brilliance after a few decades. When I was a kid and eagerly reading up about historical heroes, there was this admiration on my mind \u2019Wow, I wish I could be more like them. I wish I could do no wrong, be right and just\u2026\u2019 As growing-up would have it, such na\u00efve notions were soon beaten out of me and were replaced by an understanding that not many heroes had a clear notion of where things were heading d The ultimate sweetener is history. Incidents, men, women and happenings all achieve a sheen of brilliance after a few decades. When I was a kid and eagerly reading up about historical heroes, there was this admiration on my mind \u2019Wow, I wish I could be more like them. I wish I could do no wrong, be right and just\u2026\u2019 As growing-up would have it, such na\u00efve notions were soon beaten out of me and were replaced by an understanding that not many heroes had a clear notion of where things were heading during their times. Not all of them were children of destiny or heroic figures who strode forward with the entire future planned out in their head. They lived out every single hour, day, month and year amidst struggle and became icons for others to look up to in the process. Not everything was planned and all that they had was a goal to look forward to and the difference between others and them was the uncompromising struggle to reach that goal. Even with a minimal understanding of American history, George Washington was a man who to me was always a colossally large figure. Someone who was always right, someone who never wavered and went forth with the might and awesomeness of a storm and so on and on. When all I heard were hero-worshipping biographical accounts in my youth, an image took shape in my mind of a perfectly sculpted bust of Washington. Many an article and documentary later, the bust is still magnificent and yet there are places were the paint has chipped and the plaster has fallen off. But from a strictly logical POV, this is also the more realistic portrait of him as a human being. It is beyond doubt that George Washington was a legend but he was also completely human. On the legend, Joseph Ellis writes : He was that rarest of men : a supremely realistic visionary, a prudent prophet whose final position on slavery served as a capstone to a career devoted to getting the big things right. His genius was his judgement. The biography is a very short and concise one and while it does not elaborate on a lot of things, it does touch upon almost all the key aspects of the life of this one man who became synonymous with America. It was not for nothing that Jefferson once remarked that Washington on horseback can trump anything we choose to come up with . From the beginning of his career as a soldier to his stint in the French-Indian wars is when Ellis begins his biography. To me it was a matter of fascination that for being such a famed general, Washington lost more battles than what he ever won. Ellis does not let his biography slip into the realm of becoming a blue eyed gaze at a hero but gives us a more comprehensive picture of Washington, warts and all. So we are treated to his defeat after defeat at multiple battles and skirmishes, the dispassionate and utterly disciplined face that Washington maintained through all of it and finally the decisive win at Yorktown. Beyond the military air, the general was also an expert at maintaining his own finances as well as his farms and real estate. The one thing that Washington mastered most according to Ellis was the art of silence. The magisterial air and the silence he maintained always ensured that people deferred to Washington as and when he spoke. To my mind, he is that rare man of class who will come out of the woodwork to become a figurehead for everyone to look up at and once the job is done he withdraws into the quiet life that he held so dear. Even amidst the whirlwinds of the American revolution, taking full charge of the nation as a dictator never appealed too much to him. If he chose to, the history of the US of A would have been a totally different one. The book says : Whereas Cromwell and later Napoleon made themselves synonymous with the revolution in order to justify the assumption of dictatorial power, Washington made himself synonymous with the American revolution in order to declare that it was incompatible with dictatorial power. For all his virtues, Washington was also a straight arrow and was too na\u00efve to understand the crooked undercurrents of the budding nature of politics. The two terms he served as the President of the newly formed American union did more to scar him than the war ever did. His relationships with Jefferson and Hamilton which led to the rise of the two party system in America is also an interesting point to note. His views on slavery and slaves in particular also did not win him too many friends during his time as the President. Even as the dawn was breaking over the new nation of America, the media was not too far away in pouring slanderous libel over the icon whom Henry Lee called \u2019First in war, first in peace, first in the hearts of his countrymen.\u2019 Not too much has changed in the world over the years ! It is also ironic that the man who spent his life fighting the aristocratic British was referred to by the same name the British reserved for their high ranking officials - Your Excellency. A befitting closing note for this review is also from the book : If you aspire to live forever in the memory of future generations, you must demonstrate the ultimate self-confidence to leave the final judgement to them. And he did. Recommended as a fantastic starting point to understand American history. ...more Before I read this book, I was used to seeing Washington held in the highest regard, as a truly almost perfect man. This book gave a more analytical approach to Washington, not downplaying his weaknesses, and it is refreshing at times. Sometimes it comes across as though the author is just trying to be contrary for the sake of being contrary. This book gave great depth to figuring out the complicated mind of Washington. I would recommend it to anyone interested in learning about Washington in a Before I read this book, I was used to seeing Washington held in the highest regard, as a truly almost perfect man. This book gave a more analytical approach to Washington, not downplaying his weaknesses, and it is refreshing at times. Sometimes it comes across as though the author is just trying to be contrary for the sake of being contrary. This book gave great depth to figuring out the complicated mind of Washington. I would recommend it to anyone interested in learning about Washington in a short amount of time. ...more I enjoyed this book so much. I'd like to read Chernov's book on Washington but at the moment it is way too large to even think about. This book was an ideal length and gave me a better idea about Washington and who he really was than I'd ever had before. What follows are things that fascinated me. Washington was born in 1732 and was a fourth-generation Virginian. Kind of amazing to think that he was fourth generation at the time of birth. He received the modern equivalent of a grade school educa I enjoyed this book so much. I'd like to read Chernov's book on Washington but at the moment it is way too large to even think about. This book was an ideal length and gave me a better idea about Washington and who he really was than I'd ever had before. What follows are things that fascinated me. Washington was born in 1732 and was a fourth-generation Virginian. Kind of amazing to think that he was fourth generation at the time of birth. He received the modern equivalent of a grade school education. Wow. He was incredibly tall. 6'2\" to 6'3\". He was said to be imposing physically. He was 43 when he led the Continental Army. \"His unanimous elevation to the position as commander in chief actually preceded the creation of a national military force that he could command.\" His Circular Letter to the States, in June 1783... \"The Citizens of America, placed in the most enviable condition, as Sole Lords and Proprietors of a vast tract of Continent, comprehending all the various soils and climates of the World, and abounding with all the necessaries and conveniences of life, are now by the late satisfactory pacification, acknowledged to be possessed of absolute freedom and Independency; They are, from this period, to be considered as Actors on a most conspicuous Theatre, which seems to be peculiarly designed by Providence for the display of human greatness and felicity.\" Gaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah, indeed. It is hard to imagine Washington from the point of view of a new nation. Ellis says, \"We must recognize that there was not such thing as a viable American nation when he took office as president, that the opening words of the Constitution (\"We the people of the United States\") expressed a fervent but fragile hope rather than a social reality.\" He was 57 when he was elected our first President. Fascinating to think how our infant nation struggled with the idea of a President. We'd just thrown off a King and they didn't want that sort of feeling, yet the nation loved Washington so deeply they often called him His Excellency. His foreign policy was all about America. He believed nations were driven by interests and not ideals and that these were changeable. \"Those interests, he was convinced, did not lie across the Atlantic but across the Alleghenies, in those forests and fields he had explored as a young man.\" Ellis tells that Washington felt policy, executive attention and diplomatic relationships were more vital with Native Americans. He did not view Native Americans as exotic savages, but as familiar and formidable adversaries fighting for their own independence: In effect, behaving pretty much as he would do in their place. \"Working closely with Knox, Washington devised a policy designed to create several sovereign Indian \"homelands\". He concurred when Knox insisted that \"the independent tribes of indians ought to be considered as foreign nations, not as subjects of any particular State.\" Treaties with these tribes ought to be regarded as binding contracts sanctioned by the federal government, whose jurisdiction could not be compromised: \"Indians being the prior occupants possess the right of the Soil...To dispossess them...would be a gross violation of the fundamental Laws of Nature and of that distributive Justice which is the glory of a nation.\" He felt to do so would equate moral failure and ultimately stain our nation. He sought to avoid the outcome that occurred with Andrew Jackson forty years later. *Sigh* fucking Jackson. And finally, \"There can be no greater error to expect, or calculate upon real favours from Nation to Nation. 'Tis an illusion which experience must cure, which a just pride ought to discard.\" We've still not learned that. All in all, a fascinating man and a fascinating read. I'd known he was brilliant but this was very compelling to read. ...more After reading Courting Cate, I became inspired to read a biography on each of our Presidents. I\u2019m kind of embarrassed that I don\u2019t know a majority of the Presidents who have served our nation. But that shall change! So here\u2019s the first review in a series that will take probably two years to complete, but I\u2019m ready for the challenge! First thought: Who know George Washington was tall and buff? And apparently kinda handsome or \u201cphysically majestic\u201d as the book quoted. Say wha??? I\u2019m just sayin the After reading Courting Cate, I became inspired to read a biography on each of our Presidents. I\u2019m kind of embarrassed that I don\u2019t know a majority of the Presidents who have served our nation. But that shall change! So here\u2019s the first review in a series that will take probably two years to complete, but I\u2019m ready for the challenge! First thought: Who know George Washington was tall and buff? And apparently kinda handsome or \u201cphysically majestic\u201d as the book quoted. Say wha??? I\u2019m just sayin the pictures I remember from grade school don\u2019t scream Henry Cavill status. Yes, I retain all the important facts from history books. The author kicked off with this intro (and one that definitely grabbed my interest). It seemed to me that Benjamin Franklin was wiser than Washington; Alexander Hamilton was more brilliant; John Adams was better read; Thomas Jefferson was more intellectually sophisticated; James Madison was more politically astute. Yet each and all of these prominent figures acknowledged that Washington was their unquestioned superior. Within the gallery of greats so often mythologized and capitalized as Founding Fathers, Washington was recognized as primus inter pares, the Foundingest Father of them all. Why was that? In the pages that follow I have looked for an answer, which lies buried within the folds of the most ambitious, determined and potent personality of an age not lacking for worthy rivals. How he became that way, and what he then did with it, is the story I try to tell. First, here\u2019s debbie downers I learned: He was supposedly in love with his BFF\u2019s wife before her married Martha. Oh the drama! He had no descendants or children of his own. And both his step children died young :( . I also feel it necessary to inform you that he never admitted to a cherry tree chop to his Dad (instead he didn\u2019t really have a relationship with his dad, who died relatively young). So rude to lie to young children in school ;) ! It\u2019s interesting to read his thoughts on slavery (he did eventually free his slaves), his reluctance in taking the Presidency, but even with his legitimate doubts, he agreed to be \u201cthe chosen instrument of history\u201d and he also knew that \u201cUnlike Julius Caesar and Oliver Cromwell before him, and Napoleon, Lenin and Mao after him, he understood that the greater glory resided in posterity\u2019s judgment\u201d not falling to the \u201cillusion that he transcended his human nature.\u201d I will admit, these books take me a bit longer to finish and depending how long the book is, I\u2019ll \u201cbreak\u201d halfway through and read a quick fiction piece. But that doesn\u2019t mean I don\u2019t enjoy them. Ellis researched well (of course I know no history book is completely objective), is enthusiastic and loves history, all of which are evident throughout the pages of the book. Without sounding too much like a National Treasure cheese ball, men like Washington spoke with a passion that is rare these days. Take one of his earliest Revolutionary pieces: \u201cAt a time when our Lordly masters in Great Britain will be satisfied with nothing less than the deprivation of American freedom, It seems highly necessary that something should be done to avert the stroke and maintain the liberty which we have derived from our ancestors.\u201d Holler for history, folks! booksandbeverages.wordpress.com ...more Added 3/9/12. I listened to the audio version of this book. Below is a copy of a post I made at my group about this book and another book about GW: ===================================== Jim wrote: \"Joy, did you see a big difference between Ellis' view of Washington & Ferling's? One of the more interesting things about history is how much it changes depending on the author. ...\" Jim, I would say that, as far as I can remember, Ferling's book, The Ascent of George Washington: The Hidden Political Added 3/9/12. I listened to the audio version of this book. Below is a copy of a post I made at my group about this book and another book about GW: ===================================== Jim wrote: \"Joy, did you see a big difference between Ellis' view of Washington & Ferling's? One of the more interesting things about history is how much it changes depending on the author. ...\" Jim, I would say that, as far as I can remember, Ferling's book, The Ascent of George Washington: The Hidden Political Genius of an American Icon , seemed to tell more about Washington's shortcomings than did Ellis's book, His Excellency: George Washington . If I had read your question before I listened to the books, I would have paid more attention to the differences between the books. As it was, I was going back and forth between them since one listening device was in the living room and the other was in the kitchen. So my listening was interspersed between the books. Ferling's book was interesting because it told about the disagreements and animosities between the historical figures of the time. It also told about the friendships. One relationship that was especially interesting was GW's friendship with Hamilton, who was capable but was also a rogue at the same time. I'll bet his life would be an interesting one to read about. It was interesting to read the details of GW's early life as a backwoods explorer and also as a soldier, with descriptions of the battles and their outcomes. GW was tall and impressive in his uniform and on his white horse. He had a commanding demeanor. He was fearless in battle. Quite the hero even though credit must be given to the officers under him, something Ferling said GW didn't do all the time. Instead he took the credit himself. IIRC, Ferling pointed out a time when GW didn't tell the truth! :) I think that much of Ferling's info came from letters and writings of the important people of the time who made comments to each other about GW. =============================== In another post about this book, I wrote: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ It was interesting getting to know the details of Washington's life including his character and his personality. He was quite an operator! :) One interesting aspect of his personality was the fact that he often found scapegoats to blame for some of his failures. He married a rich woman. He invested in wilderness property in order to be able to sell it and make money. He's credited with guiding the new union through its infancy, following policies which helped it grow and become strong. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...more \"Benjamin Franklin was wiser than Washington; Alexander Hamilton was more brilliant; John Adams was better read; Thomas Jefferson was more intellectually sophisticated; James Madison was more politically astute. Yet each and all of these prominent figures acknowledged that Washington was their unquestioned superior.\" (pg xiv) And in this \"modest-sized book about a massive historical subject,\" Joseph Ellis looks at why Washington was so highly regarded, both by his contemporaries and by history. \"Benjamin Franklin was wiser than Washington; Alexander Hamilton was more brilliant; John Adams was better read; Thomas Jefferson was more intellectually sophisticated; James Madison was more politically astute. Yet each and all of these prominent figures acknowledged that Washington was their unquestioned superior.\" (pg xiv) And in this \"modest-sized book about a massive historical subject,\" Joseph Ellis looks at why Washington was so highly regarded, both by his contemporaries and by history. Ellis astutely points out that many others (such as Cromwell, Napoleon, Lenin, Mao, and Castro) were pivotal in orchestrating successful revolutions but only Washington declined to assume power in a military dictatorship (pg 139). And perhaps Washington's greatest trait was understanding that stepping aside would enhance the way he was viewed by posterity far greater than simply assuming power. He was always ambitious, looking for ways to integrate himself into Virginia society as a younger man, but he also knew when to exercise restraint and keep himself above the fray. As the key figure of the American Revolution he kept up the struggle even when all odds were against him - flagging support among the populace, poor condition of the Continental Army, lack of support from Congress, the supremacy of British strategy and control of the seas, French reluctance to provide assistance. And yet such experience taught him the importance of a strong federal government and guided his role as President of the new nation. There were no prior examples to draw from or precedent to follow, and although his own lack of a formal education was a constant embarrassment to him, he intuitively knew how to utilize the strengths of others and manage the competing ambitions of those around him in setting the nation on a path to stability. Ellis hasn't exactly written a biography in the classic sense, although he does chronicle Washington's life, but it's enhanced by a deep character study of this important man. And few are as adept at bringing history's characters to life in such an insightful way and putting the reader into their shoes. It was in strong contrast to John Ferling's The Ascent of George Washington. Where Ferling looks at a events with a critical eye enhanced with 200 years of historical hindsight, Ellis sees beyond the failings to the motivations and greater social customs of the day and makes the history personal in a way no one else does. Although the book was a little slow starting it was so packed with valuable insight that it merits a close reading. I highly recommend it. ...more I read this book several years ago and decided to re-read this book again. The first time reading this, I picked up on the theme of Washington's desire to emulate the legendary Roman General Cinncinatus, who rose to great military fame defeating the enemies of Rome and then stepping down from his perch of military power to serve as a farmer. It is remarkable how much restraint Washington showed, as he was all but given the chance to assume near imperial powers in America, and he did not. In a se I read this book several years ago and decided to re-read this book again. The first time reading this, I picked up on the theme of Washington's desire to emulate the legendary Roman General Cinncinatus, who rose to great military fame defeating the enemies of Rome and then stepping down from his perch of military power to serve as a farmer. It is remarkable how much restraint Washington showed, as he was all but given the chance to assume near imperial powers in America, and he did not. In a second reading of this work, I picked up on the theme of economic desire and gain. Washington constantly sought to increase his economic wealth, but also sought to avoid the pratfalls that would bedevil many of his other Virginian Founding Fathers (Jefferson, Madison) by avoid massive debts and living too much beyond his means. He did not have a great cash flow, but his land holding kept him solvent when he passed away. The economic paradigm also defined his views on slavery (again, not something that one learned in high school history). While not a trend-setter, it would have been interesting to see if his views could have been implemented, a form of economic compensation for slave-holders and also the argument that slavery was far from economic and actually was a drain on the plantation and economic system of the Southern plantation. Washington was by no means perfect. He was incredibly sensitive to his image, and he knew all-too-well that his actions would forever reflect on him. He had to appear to be above the fray, he had to appear to not active seek power, but have it granted to him. Yet, his desire to maintain his image as an American Cinncinatus allowed him to step away from power...not something many of his contemporaries could really do. Was he the greatest president or the greatest military commander in American history? No on both fronts. Yet, he may have been the most indispensible American ever, as it is unlikely that America could have been born and survived its critical formative years without him. A must read for those who want a relatively concise perspective on our first President. ...more I have never had much interest in the peri-American Revolution period of history. I think this is because in the 1950\u2019s this part of history was taught in such a sanitized, i.e. boring fashion with these static characters who were about a alive as their plaster statues. A few years ago I read Adams, by David McCullough, and was totally in love with Adams by the end. I certainly did not have that reaction to George Washington after this book, but I do feel that this period of history has been som I have never had much interest in the peri-American Revolution period of history. I think this is because in the 1950\u2019s this part of history was taught in such a sanitized, i.e. boring fashion with these static characters who were about a alive as their plaster statues. A few years ago I read Adams, by David McCullough, and was totally in love with Adams by the end. I certainly did not have that reaction to George Washington after this book, but I do feel that this period of history has been somewhat redeemed in my mind. The author says he is trying to answer the question of why Washington was such a beloved leader and unifier in his time. Well, I learned that GW was a terrible general \u2013 really quite terrible, but that he was basically an excellent businessman. I learned that he really did tend towards the liveliness of a plaster statue because he was so totally driven by what other people thought of him and might think of him. For example, he altered his earlier diaries, had Martha burn all his letters, and had all of his war communications transcribed for posterity. I never really thought that the question about his status was ever answered in the book, and tend to agree with John Adams\u2019 assessment which was that he was elected \u201cbecause he was tall.\u201d I was impressed with the author\u2019s intense scrutiny of Washington\u2019s stance on slavery \u2013 driven by some morality issues but also by business sense and by trying to do what would be best for his legacy. I have rarely heard the complexity of slavery so deeply explored \u2013 it has never been a complex issue for me, just wrong - so these discussion were some of the best in the book. The first couple of chapters are slow and a bit onerous to wade through as the author presents his theses. ...more Thoroughly enjoyable book. I appreciate Ellis' conclusion that Washington had insatiable ambition and plenty of self-interest. All of the evidence points to this conclusion but it seems as if collective history shows Washington as a bastion of incorruptible virtue. That said, Ellis focuses on two very salient points that make Washington the best president this country has ever had: his ability to abide fully by the rules of the Constitution and to embody the \"spirit of '76\" while recognizing his Thoroughly enjoyable book. I appreciate Ellis' conclusion that Washington had insatiable ambition and plenty of self-interest. All of the evidence points to this conclusion but it seems as if collective history shows Washington as a bastion of incorruptible virtue. That said, Ellis focuses on two very salient points that make Washington the best president this country has ever had: his ability to abide fully by the rules of the Constitution and to embody the \"spirit of '76\" while recognizing his unique place. I was struck by his ability not to interject his own agenda into that of Congress but also his focus on how the country could only stay together through his singular efforts. Yes, Washington may have had lots of egotistical tendencies, but his ability not only to hide those but also to react aginst them (e.g. Fabian strategy against British) at key points should be admired. Also, his foreign policy impressed me because he not only understood the interests of other nations would drive their policy but also penned treaties that, while publicly reviled, saved the country from a disastrous mistake. The U.S. would've been crushed in a follow-up war with Britain. It's easy to make a judgment on Washington as a man. At times he looks arrogant and overly grave, but his ability to acknowledge his special place not only to the public as president but as general to the Continental Army was the glue that held many things together as the country launched its ship. The reason this book doesn't have 5 stars is twofold: first, while the style is at times very elegant, it's a little flowery for my taste. Also, I would say while this was meant as a manageable biography, I think a longer book would be very helpful from an informed reader's perspective. ...more", "Title": "His Excellency: George Washington"},
