{"Comments": "In my classification system, there are books that are readers\u2019 books (<---B>they tell an engaging story</---B>); there are books that are writers\u2019 books (they are creative in their prose and technically sound); and then there are GREAT books that tell a good story through solid prose. <+++>Let the Great World Spin</+++> (the 2009 National Book Award winner) is such a book. The book shares the lives of seemingly random New Yorkers in 1974, and how their lives intertwine. At the surface, they seem connected by what happe In my classification system, there are books that are readers\u2019 books (they tell an engaging story); there are books that are writers\u2019 books (they are creative in their prose and technically sound); and then there are GREAT books that tell a good story through solid prose. <+++>Let the Great World Spin</+++> (the 2009 National Book Award winner) is such a book. The book shares the lives of seemingly random New Yorkers in 1974, and how their lives intertwine. At the surface, they seem connected by what happens in their lives in and around August 7, 1974 when a man walked a tightrope strung between the two towers of the World Trade Center. However,<---M> as the book progresses</---M>, we find out how their lives connect on much deeper levels.<---F> This book rewards patient readers</---F>. Impatient readers will find the first few chapters disjointed, with too many unconnected plot threads. Patient readers will get to see how all these threads come together; and come together they do, and beautifully so, in a way that reminded me of Cunningham\u2019s The Hours. It\u2019s one of the reasons that, if I had to choose one word to describe this book, it would be \u201cwell-crafted\u201d. Patience also pays off for the reader in how the novel ends. For me, the first half of the book felt very dark: characters die, depressing lives remain depressing, and sorrows remain unredeemed. But in the last half of this book, there is this growing sense of hope and strength. And McCann\u2019s story about the connectedness of life and the audacity of living despite the hardness of life completes itself. From a prose perspective, McCann has a writing style that was fluid enough to change its voice as it drifted from character to character, but was still able to retain its structure and feel. Sentences are sharp and concise and scene descriptions always had this energy behind it. Beautifully written, and perfectly crafted. Highly recommended. ...more This really may be the first truly profound novel to connect itself with September 11, 2001 and New York City, if only because it does so in such an understated, oblique, and poetically suggestive way. It's also a novel that may take over a hundred pages to truly capture your imagination, but once it does, and once the connective tissue of the disparate group of characters starts to reveal itself, the novel attains a kind of hypnotic and edgy grace for its duration. So richly and deeply are McCa This really may be the first truly profound novel to connect itself with September 11, 2001 and New York City, if only because it does so in such an understated, oblique, and poetically suggestive way. It's also a novel that may take over a hundred pages to truly capture your imagination, but once it does, and once the connective tissue of the disparate group of characters starts to reveal itself, the novel attains a kind of hypnotic and edgy grace for its duration. So richly and deeply are McCann's various characters drawn that one finally must marvel at how much he accomplishes in his 350 pages (i.e., it would take lesser writers at least another 100 pages to render these many lives as convincingly as he does). It's a novel about unlikely (and often unknown) linkages between people, and because some of these characters represent types who are most invisible and disenfranchised in our society it's a novel that enlarges our sympathies and our compassion (or at least it should). It's also a novel about those \"two towering beacons high in the clouds,\" the World Trade Center towers in their infancy, in a more innocent time, when they could be confronted by bravery, elan, and artistry rather than by terrorism. When the pedestrians look up to the buildings' peaks to see a tightrope walker making his way between them, their eyes cannot believe what they see -- and we reflect on the buildings' more recent history, when our eyes also could not believe what they saw, and when the notion of falling from the sky took on all those horrible shadings. When, on the novel's last page, one of McCann's characters reflects that, as humans, \"we stumble on ... [we] bring a little noise into the silence, find in others the ongoing of ourselves\" and concludes that \"it is almost enough,\" we feel all of the power this novel has been so patiently and inexorably building up. ...more I used to really enjoy short story collections. I used to read scary ones in elementary school, depressing ones in high school, and I even read trippy ones in college (thinking I was cool). But sometime during my post-college years, my interest in them began to wane . I don\u2019t know whether this can be ascribed to getting older, but I do know that I now get frustrated with short stories. The time I invest in the setting and the characters, acclimating to the storytelling style and pacing\u2014well, ther I used to really enjoy short story collections. I used to read scary ones in elementary school, depressing ones in high school, and I even read trippy ones in college (thinking I was cool). But sometime during my post-college years, my interest in them began to wane . I don\u2019t know whether this can be ascribed to getting older, but I do know that I now get frustrated with short stories. The time I invest in the setting and the characters, acclimating to the storytelling style and pacing\u2014well, there\u2019s not enough return on my investment. I just don\u2019t have time for it anymore. Thankfully, this book is not a collection of short stories. Rather, it is a single story told in a collection, and the collection holds together nicely. Let the Great World Spin is actually the story of a particular place and time: New York City, August 1974. It is about the lawlessness and drudgery of the city\u2019s inhabitants, it is about the angst of war, but it is also about those shining moments of hope and human achievement that pierce the angst and shred the drudgery to pieces. It is about two characters in particular, one real and one fictional, who serve as a sort of lamppost for a city steeped in darkness and self-loathing. Interestingly, both characters are outsiders\u2014new arrivals from foreign soil\u2014as if pulled in by a city that needs just a little bit of light, please. There is plenty to like about this book, too: its coherency, its writing style, its characters. But once again, I expose myself as a sucker for imagery. McCann uses metaphor like nobody\u2019s business and I fricken loved it. I ended up reading this for our new book club on Goodreads, which I started with a bunch of friends as an excuse to squeeze even more books onto my reading list. And I have to admit, this was an excellent first pick. http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/man_o... ...more Have you ever heard Gershwin's 'Rhapsody in Blue'? That first low note of the clarinet that increasingly vibrates on the ground before it jumps high, high to land with a soft boom of drums and a smooth backdrop of horns, a building for the clarinet to continue on with trills and soars, till finally the zenith is reached and the horn sounds its own quavering, the robust tone completing that architecture first sounded by the leaping thrills of the lone clarinet. I am hardly the first to see this pi Have you ever heard Gershwin's 'Rhapsody in Blue'? That first low note of the clarinet that increasingly vibrates on the ground before it jumps high, high to land with a soft boom of drums and a smooth backdrop of horns, a building for the clarinet to continue on with trills and soars, till finally the zenith is reached and the horn sounds its own quavering, the robust tone completing that architecture first sounded by the leaping thrills of the lone clarinet. I am hardly the first to see this piece as a musical caricature of New York, but it is certainly a first for me to be reading and find my mind setting down notes as quickly as my eyes can scan in words. In addition, I have never even been to New York. So, what does it mean when an author is able to convey through simple prose the pulse of a city by appealing to a piece of work that, while in a separate sensory dominion, is as evocative as that far off metropolis whose sheer force of character gives it more personality than can sometimes be believed? It means they have a rare talent indeed. But, in my mind, this book is better than the music, and that's not just my heavy inclination towards literature talking. Gershwin certainly conjures up the city, but it is New York at her best and brightest, just as it was masterfully portrayed in Fantasia 2000's animated rendition. As cheering and catchy as that sort of persona is, it is not nearly all of New York. I may have never walked the streets, but I believe that the author created each character that does with thoughtful consideration, and more importantly, empathy. Vagabond priest, graffiti connoisseur, prodigy computer, mathematician griever, tortured artist in the least clich\u00e9 sense of the phrase, the very embodiment of the words 'doomed by forces beyond one's control', and so many others. All drawn together by the wire-keeper, the sky-walker, the acrobat that took a city by storm and followed a passion that, as whimsical as its beginnings, had by its end reverberated its way through the hearts of millions and the pages of history books. This event may be the cornerstone, ferocious in its freedom and exuberant in its sheer existence, but the archway that encompasses it is filled with others whose raisons d'\u00eatre are no less complex or beautiful in their individual craftships. While the tightrope artist's story is inspiring, it is also a single side to the jewel of New York. It takes the stories of all those caught up with the single event to showcase all the other emotions and turns of fate that the city has at its disposal. Love, loss, pursuit of the broken dream, denial of the empty fate, conforming to ones lot life in every second that passes, judging others with every breath and not even the bare minimum of context. Finding, despite all that, a small measure of closure, one that the author neither saturates for emotional impact, nor biases in order to pass along personal prejudices. Before I end this, I must admit that I didn't expect all this from a book highly lauded by the public eye. Shows how much I know. In fact, this book easily fits the bill as a gateway drug for the more esoterically architectured pieces of literature, the ones with endless streams of sentences and many plots scurrying around a story that is more concerned with structure and themes, and yet still has time to lovingly craft the characters sailing along the lines of print. So, if you have an eye on those larger-than-life tomes but are hesitant on committing to them too soon, try this one. Chances are, it will sing out in a joyous harmony for you as much as it did for me. The core reason for it all was beauty. Walking was a divine delight. Everything was rewritten when he was up in the air. New things were possible with the human form. It went beyond equilibrium. He felt for a moment uncreated. Another kind of awake. ...more A tightrope walker about to pull off one of the biggest stunts ever performed. A committed priest too busy looking out for the downtrodden to take care of himself. A pair of prostitutes who are also mother and daughter. A rich woman crippled by grief and her stoic judge husband. A couple of artists who fled the New York night life. Computer hackers. A brutal car wreck. Slums. Penthouses. Robbery. Charity. It\u2019s either another day in New York, or it\u2019s the shittiest circus ever. In 1974, a French ac A tightrope walker about to pull off one of the biggest stunts ever performed. A committed priest too busy looking out for the downtrodden to take care of himself. A pair of prostitutes who are also mother and daughter. A rich woman crippled by grief and her stoic judge husband. A couple of artists who fled the New York night life. Computer hackers. A brutal car wreck. Slums. Penthouses. Robbery. Charity. It\u2019s either another day in New York, or it\u2019s the shittiest circus ever. In 1974, a French acrobat named <---C>Philippe Petit</---C> made even jaded NewYorkers take notice when he illegally rigged a tightrope between the not-quite-finished World Trade Center towers and then spent the better part of an hour walking it over 1300 feet in the air. In fact, he didn\u2019t just walk the tightrope, he danced, hopped and ran across it as well as laying down on the wire on his back at one point. Petit\u2019s stunt momentarily captivated the city, and Colm McCann uses that event as the center of a web of intriguing stories about a group of people from all walks of life find themselves unknowingly impacting each other. McCann shifts to a variety of different perspectives, even switching from first person to third person. Whether the narrator is a male Irish immigrant or a black female hooker or a Hispanic single mother, all the voices seem authentic and unique and all of them offer up differing world views that still share a common theme of trying to cling to what they love. My favorite parts are the interludes where McCann describes Petit\u2019s preparations and the walk itself. Petit was no Jackass -style daredevil. He spent over a year of careful planning and practicing for the moment when he and his crew could sneak to the top of the towers and rig the tightrope. The descriptions of the calm that fell over Petit as he stepped out on the wire and then proceeded to put on a show for the New Yorkers watching far below is almost enough to give a reader vertigo just trying to picture it. And of course, the shadow of 9/11 hangs over the book with the reader knowing that Petit practically walked on air at an incredible height between two objects that don\u2019t even exist any more. This is some top notch writing with a powerful story of how one man\u2019s desire for a transcendent moment can spin off into more directions than anyone can possibly imagine. ...more For a book that's solely supposed to be about characters....I thought all of these characters were amazingly one-dimensional. The self-sacrificing wanna-be priest? The smarter-than-she-looks hooker? The rich lonely Park Ave housewife? Nothing unique or original in there. Reading it didn't suck really hard, because it's an easy enough read, and there are little splotches of nice writing and insight throughout....but all in all, I didn't get it. I also didn't get the whole \"NYC in the '70s\" thing f For a book that's solely supposed to be about characters....I thought all of these characters were amazingly one-dimensional. The self-sacrificing wanna-be priest? The smarter-than-she-looks hooker? The rich lonely Park Ave housewife? Nothing unique or original in there. Reading it didn't suck really hard, because it's an easy enough read, and there are little splotches of nice writing and insight throughout....but all in all, I didn't get it. I also didn't get the whole \"NYC in the '70s\" thing from the book either. But that might be because I'm inured to the supposed grittiness of the city back then by now. It all sounds so cliched. What I did like about the book - it made me close my eyes and imagine the Twin Towers and wonder and marvel what it would've been like to watch a man dance in the air so high up, alongside thousands of other amazed New Yorkers. RIP WTC. ...more Oh god, don\u2019t make me look up! I was only looking at words in a book, but the image gives me instant vertigo! And I\u2019m NOT kidding! There\u2019s a crazy guy doing gymnastics on a tightrope between the Twin Towers, a million feet up in the air. All the other people can look up (and are obsessed with looking up, in fact, which is totally beyond my comprehension since I have to stare intently at my feet), so what\u2019s with me? I\u2019m afraid of heights, so I just can\u2019t look. I just can\u2019t. But how can just readi Oh god, don\u2019t make me look up! I was only looking at words in a book, but the image gives me instant vertigo! And I\u2019m NOT kidding! There\u2019s a crazy guy doing gymnastics on a tightrope between the Twin Towers, a million feet up in the air. All the other people can look up (and are obsessed with looking up, in fact, which is totally beyond my comprehension since I have to stare intently at my feet), so what\u2019s with me? I\u2019m afraid of heights, so I just can\u2019t look. I just can\u2019t. But how can just reading about this bizarre and incredible feat affect me physically, make me dizzy and nauseous? The power of books. Just blows me away. This book is cool. It starts with a chapter about people looking up at the madman in the sky. The story is based on the real 1970s event of a guy who walked on a wire between the two insanely tall buildings. (Sort of eerie reading about these buildings that no longer exist.) Despite my vertigo, the story pulled me right in. But now I have to go directly to my complaint board. Because even though I was so damn happy to get away from the crazy man in the sky, I wasn\u2019t so happy with where the author led me next\u2014to a small town in Ireland. Who says I want to hang out with two brothers in Ireland? The contrast was too fast. You know I love New York, and even though I wanted to avoid the guy on the wire, I didn\u2019t say I wanted to go overseas right then. The brothers bored me to tears and I felt no connection to them. They ended up in New York, and one of them was a priest who helped hookers. I usually like reading about squalor and down-and-outers, but for some reason their story left me cold. What a downer, after the excitement of the first chapter. But never fear, the next story had me mesmerized and mostly I liked all the other stories. Notice that I\u2019m calling them stories. That\u2019s complaint number 2. I signed up for a novel, but for a long while it read like a collections of short stories, too independent. I wanted dependence, I wanted connection, damn it. It took a while for the stories to meld. Finally, a little later than I liked, the stories were woven into a nice tapestry; in fact, a beautiful tapestry. All the sudden I was in love with the book. The language is to die for, lyrical and intense. The story so juicy meaty, the characters so interesting and complex. The interwoven plot is intense and heart-wrenching. And McCann is so damn profound, I was highlighting text like mad\u2014sometimes whole paragraphs, in fact. A cool thing is that McCann is able to use different styles of writing, and they all work. There\u2019s stream-of-consciousness, there\u2019s a cool monologue by a hooker who has a fantastic voice that is wise, funny, and sad. And then there\u2019s just plain eloquent and jazzy text that flows so well, I was just in heaven. Here are a few quotes. It was hard to pick among the zillion gems. From the hooker\u2019s monologue: They got businessmen come in for a day. Whiteys. In tighteys. They lift up their shirts, you can smell the husband panic off them, like their wife is gonna come out of the TV set. From a Park Avenue woman whose son died in the Vietnam War: No newspapers big enough to paste him back together in Saigon. She takes another long haul, lets the smoke settle in her lungs\u2014she has heard somewhere that cigarettes are good for grief. One long drag and you forget how to cry. The body too busy dealing with the poison. No wonder they gave them out free to the soldiers. Lucky Strikes. One of McCann\u2019s many wise comments: Afterward, Gloria said to her that it was necessary to love silence, but before you could love silence you had to have noise. I read McCann's short stories last year, Thirteen Ways of Looking . I loved it too, which led me to this book. I want to read more more more of his stuff. Absolutely. So even though I got bored occasionally with a character who left me cold, mostly I loved this book to pieces. It\u2019s about love and grief and bravery, and it really affected me. And it\u2019s one of those books that inspires me to write, makes me want to play with words. I do think it\u2019s a true masterpiece. And it\u2019s not McCann\u2019s fault that I got dizzy\u2014though next time I\u2019d prefer it if he kept things lower, more like ground level. ...more Reviews, in my opinion, aren't the right place for book reports, nor for nosegays of fanboy gush. I'm supposed to let the reader know why he or she should, could, or would want to read a title. You should, could, AND would want to read this National Book Award-winning novel of grief, sadness, and loss because it's so damned easy to love and cherish these characters. The Catholic monk whose vocation is to bring a whisper of compassion, in its ancient and literal meaning of \"shared pain\", to the le Reviews, in my opinion, aren't the right place for book reports, nor for nosegays of fanboy gush. I'm supposed to let the reader know why he or she should, could, or would want to read a title. You should, could, AND would want to read this National Book Award-winning novel of grief, sadness, and loss because it's so damned easy to love and cherish these characters. The Catholic monk whose vocation is to bring a whisper of compassion, in its ancient and literal meaning of \"shared pain\", to the least and the last of people, the whores, drunks, druggies that we (most of us, anyway) do our damnedest to ignore; the wealthy mother of a Vietnam war casualty, one of the Army's computer guys, a geek whose interest in computers led him to help develop ARPANET, whose grandchild you and I are using right now; the tightrope-walking oddball whose main claim to an entry in the Akashic Records is walking between the World Trade Center's towers. I love them all, and more besides...Tillie, the whoring mother and grandmother, whose entire world-view centers on making it all just a little, weentsy bit better than it has to be, Gloria whose losses mount and mount and still mount but whose sense of life is that it's here, so's she, so what's a girl to do but laugh? And Jaslyn. Oh, so much hinges on Jaslyn, Claire's niece of the heart. So much comes to its final, painful, joyous fruition with her arrival...and truly, ladies and gentlemen, at last here the great world spins. Really, nothing I say can impact your personal decision to read the book or not. I can, and do, recommend it. Millions of the maniacs on a mission who have already read it are doing just that. I can only encourage you to support a writer who can create a character who says of her dead daughter's attempted savior: \"They told me {he} smashed all the bones in his chest when he hit the steering wheel. Well at least in Heaven his...chick'll be able to reach in and grab his heart.\" This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License . ...more This won the national book award Which didn\u2019t stop me from becoming bored Instead of this you could try a Documentary called Man on a Wire It\u2019s also about Philippe Petit\u2019s act (Against which the cards were surely stacked) To walk in the air between the two towers For approximately 0.75 hours On 7th August 1974. By doing so he broke the law But the DA for once did the right thing And he wasn\u2019t sent to Rikers or Sing Sing Where PP\u2019s feat was one of funambulism <---A>Colum McCann</---A>\u2019s is more like somnambulism Smack-head This won the national book award Which didn\u2019t stop me from becoming bored Instead of this you could try a Documentary called Man on a Wire It\u2019s also about Philippe Petit\u2019s act (Against which the cards were surely stacked) To walk in the air between the two towers For approximately 0.75 hours On 7th August 1974. By doing so he broke the law But the DA for once did the right thing And he wasn\u2019t sent to Rikers or Sing Sing Where PP\u2019s feat was one of funambulism Colum McCann\u2019s is more like somnambulism Smack-head hookers, radical priests Mothers of Vietnam vets, deceased Not so much New York as Clich\u00e9 City And lachrymose where it should be gritty Sorry to say Let the Great World Spin Is the 12th novel this year to end up in the bin ...more \"Being on the tightrope is living; everything else is waiting.\" -- Karl Wallenda, of the Flying Wallendas. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 are almost ten years old, and yet, the wound is still very raw (for those not directly involved, I mean; for those that were there, the wound is forever). Books and films that have dared touch the subject have done so in one of two ways: with near-stultifying decorum and gravity, which makes art into some kind of vague, patriotic duty; or with obli \"Being on the tightrope is living; everything else is waiting.\" -- Karl Wallenda, of the Flying Wallendas. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 are almost ten years old, and yet, the wound is still very raw (for those not directly involved, I mean; for those that were there, the wound is forever). Books and films that have dared touch the subject have done so in one of two ways: with near-stultifying decorum and gravity, which makes art into some kind of vague, patriotic duty; or with obliqueness, in which an artist makes a post 9/11 point without even mentioning 9/11. There's a good reason for this: any film or book that attempts to incorporate those events into \"entertainment\" are instantly condoned. Thus, nearly a decade on, the best works about 9/11 include two Spielberg films ( Munich and War of the Worlds ) and a television show ( Lost ). These have nothing to do with the actual events, yet have everything to do with the actual events. Let the Great World Spin is a 9/11 book that takes place in August 1974. It is a collection of interlocking stories strung together (natch!) by Philippe Petit's walk across a wire strung between the Twin Towers. This event had been mostly forgotten until the Towers fell, when suddenly Petit's walk became unbelievably poignant. Though author Colum McCann's story takes place long before the ghastly events of 9/11, before hijacked airliners, fireballs, and clouds of ash, and before Orange Alerts and the TSA and shoe-bombers and butt-bombers and all the rest, it is undeniably haunted by the future. This is made clear right at the start, when McCann describes the tumult caused by the wire-walker: [T:]he rumors began again, a collision of curse and whisper, augmented by an increase in sirens, which got their hearts pumping even more, and the helicopter found a purchase near the west side of the towers, while down in the foyer of the World Trade Center the cops were sprinting across the marble floor, and the undercovers were whipping out badges from beneath their shirts, and the fire trucks were pulling into the plaza, and the redblue dazzled the glass... It's almost as though he was describing something else... And if the point isn't hammered home enough, McCann later includes a photo of the wire-walker suspended between the Towers, with an airplane in the background. Yeah, it's not too subtle. But I'm not really sure what to make of the allusion, just as I'm not really sure what to make of the book. My enjoyment - and my internal Goodreads star-meter - ebbed and flowed as I made my way through. The book is designed to frustrate in this manner. In a way, it's more a collection of short stories than a novel. Each chapter is told from the point of view of a different character, utilizing first person and third person storytelling, and even a little second person for good measure. Among the various characters are Irish brothers Ciaran and John \"Corrie\" Corrigan, who live among the prostitutes of New York City; Claire and her husband Solomon, an upper middle class couple who have lost a son in Vietnam (Claire spends time with a support group, while Solomon is the Judge who arraigns an unnamed Philippe Petit); a South American nurse who's in love with Corrie; a black prostitute whom Corrie attempts to save; a young white girl named Lara who left her privileged upbringing to make time with a too-serious artist; and so forth. Petit shows up a couple times, in chapters that end the first two sections of the novel. Everything had purpose, signal, meaning. But in the end he knew that it all came down to the wire. Him and the cable. Two hundred and ten feet and the distance it bridged. The towers had been designed to sway a full three feet in a storm. A violent gust or even a sudden change in temperature would force the buildings to sway and the wire could tighten and bounce. It was one of the few things that came down to chance... The structure of this novel is nothing, well, novel. It employs the kind of set up utilized by any number of cut-rate books and movies (I'm looking askance at you, the Academy Award-winning Crash ). Unsurprisingly, many of these characters meet and intertwine, in ways that are meant to surprise and enlighten; others share only a passing connection, perhaps as ephemeral as having both witnessed Petit's wire-walk. I'm not trying to be too down, here, because great care is taken in assembling thsi mosaic. Indeed, one of the enjoyments of the book is meeting a character, and later seeing that person through another character's eyes. I'm not a big short story guy, so that should factor into the relevance of this review. I prefer three acts and full arcs, rather than the precious snippets of illumination short stories ostensibly provide. As such, I was prone to frustration with Let the Great World Spin . Just as I was getting into a character (and actually figuring out who they were) the chapter would end and you'd jump into someone else's life. Often times, you never go back, and many character threads are left dangling forever. And, as with any short story collection, there is good and bad. Some chapters were really powerful, others felt like padding. (And the ending, which flashes forward to 2006, for a blah-blah-blah epilogue, is particularly bad. Joshua Ferris got smacked down for this in Then We Came to the End , yet McCann seems to have gotten a pass. He also won the National Book Award, while Ferris was only a finalist, so go figure). Maybe this is bitterness, but the book felt too perfect. To paraphrase Melville, I saw the author's foot on the treadle of the loom. There are times when you really notice the care taken with each word, but I don't mean this as a compliment. Despite having different characters narrate each chapter, all the voices sounded suspiciously the same: highly literate. This is a problem when you skip from an Irishman, to a prostitute, to a judge. Sure, there's an idiom here, and some slang there, and a little patois in the corner, but in general, everyone sounded the same. Moreover, McCann doesn't really play by his own rules. In one chapter, the narrator is describing his day at the beach, but then intercuts his story with a deadly car crash happening elsewhere. Now, this narrator wasn't in the car, so he wouldn't know what was happening, yet he describes the event as though he were in the passenger seat. Not only does he describe it, he describes it like National Book Award Winner Colum McCann: a sentence about the beach; a sentence about the car crash; a sentence about the beach; a sentence about the car crash. Back and forth like this. It's seamless and powerful writing, but it's supposedly coming from a guy who never made it far past high school. It's a quibble, to be sure, but it speaks to the lingering sensation I had, with every page, that I was reading something \"important.\" I guess that would make the book \"self-important,\" which it really kind of is. ...more Life is full of unexpected synchronicities. The kinds of things that occasionally make you feel that you are connected to a greater web of being, a little sign to let you know that you are not in this alone. Two days before I picked up Colum McCann's extraordinary novel \"Let The Great World Spin,\" I watched the equally extraordinary documentary \"Man on Wire\" for the second time. Philippe Petit, more angel than human, strung a cable across the Twin Towers in 1974 and performed on it for over half Life is full of unexpected synchronicities. The kinds of things that occasionally make you feel that you are connected to a greater web of being, a little sign to let you know that you are not in this alone. Two days before I picked up Colum McCann's extraordinary novel \"Let The Great World Spin,\" I watched the equally extraordinary documentary \"Man on Wire\" for the second time. Philippe Petit, more angel than human, strung a cable across the Twin Towers in 1974 and performed on it for over half an hour, walking, reclining, and literally dancing for the tiny human specks below and for the gods above (who could see him better, after all). It is a breathtaking sight, a man who has become art, who has made of himself something otherworldly and glorious. Like walking into a forest and seeing a unicorn or looking at the seashore and spotting a mermaid on a rock. It is therefore no wonder that the thread that ties together the vignettes in \"Let the Great World Spin\" is Petit's momentous tightrope walk as witnessed by the various residents of New York City. McCann introduces us to a number of these residents, some living gritty lives in the projects, others living lives of quiet luxury in a Park Avenue penthouse, still others trying to survive somewhere between the two extremes, in addresses less prone to preconception. And all of these residents are tied to the story and tied to the events of the day in ways that are sometimes obvious but more often as tenuous as a wire strung between buildings. But a wire that stretches. And holds. McCann's brilliance lies in the fact that each individual we meet is a revelation, a wholly expressed and vivid entity burnt onto our brain cells for all time. When we first meet the young Irish monk, Corrigan, living in a pit in the projects in order to try to protect the downtrodden, the hookers, and the elderly of the neighborhood, we jump into his world without a thought for our own safety, because we are smitten by his desire to bring goodness to bad places. As it turns out, he - and we - should have considered our safety a bit more carefully. So we learn straight off that some stories are not connected by so much as common addresses or economic status as they are by loss, by grief, by people left behind to trudge on when another's goals are left unfulfilled. Other characters will learn similar lessons, some by choice and others by circumstance, but McCann does not leave us behind like onlookers in a theater. He tells us these stories to make us look at our own and to consider the effect our lives have on the lives around us. Add to this ingenious structure the most perfect prose in modern literature and you have not a book, not a work of fiction, but an experience. McCann's stories are startlingly beautiful in many ways - their description, their construct, their gorgeous dissection of the dreams and memories of their characters. But the windows McCann opens, the doors he peers through, are just as often opening onto heartbreak as they are onto joy. Somehow, though, the grief and loss make the small tribulations and unexpected beauty that much more meaningful, the way a small remembrance can give us an inner photograph of our own unique definition of happiness. \"So much depends upon the red wheelbarrow...\", after all. McCann's characters allow us a glimpse of their sorrow and their happiness and let us decide if a balance has been achieved. That is, if the living of a life matters in the world, which is what McCann ultimately appears to be weighing in his fiction. Which is why he has allowed us glimpses into lives connected to other lives, and connected to other lives still, like the branches of an ever-expanding tree limb. How does this new person have an impact on the soul I have just become acquainted with, how can this person across town make a mark on the life of the one I just met in the Bronx? Late in the book one of our characters says, \"It had never occurred to me before but everything in New York is built upon another thing, nothing is entirely by itself, each thing as strange as the last, and connected.\" Reading \"Let the Great World Spin\" makes me understand anew that we are all connected, that what we do matters, that our actions send ripples into the world that can affect other people in strange and unexpected ways. And every so often something stunning and remarkable happens that can bind us all together in sorrow or in joy. Like two planes hitting the Twin Towers. Or an angel walking between them. ...more How? How did he do it? How did he get the wire across? That's the question that intrigues those who saw or heard of Philippe Petit's daring tightrope walk on August 7, 1974. Not who, not why. How. How he bridged the unbridgeable, the chasm between those two monolithic structures. Spider-like, sending a thread that looks as delicate as silk from afar, but is strong enough to carry a man, a thread that connects the two separate giants. This took a wee while to work its magic. It is oblique, (which I li How? How did he do it? How did he get the wire across? That's the question that intrigues those who saw or heard of Philippe Petit's daring tightrope walk on August 7, 1974. Not who, not why. How. How he bridged the unbridgeable, the chasm between those two monolithic structures. Spider-like, sending a thread that looks as delicate as silk from afar, but is strong enough to carry a man, a thread that connects the two separate giants. This took a wee while to work its magic. It is oblique, (which I like, but it can be unsettling), there are some oddly ugly metaphors - a sunset the colour of muscle. Yuk. It teeters perilously close to the edge of hokey clich\u00e9 and manipulative tear-jerk - I mean, a fatal car crash? C'mon. But there I was thrown the lifeline of some breathtakingly well executed writing, which persuaded me to struggle back on board. There's more. There are more - a whole ensemble. And they start to come together, all these people, in unexpected ways. There are gossamer thin threads thrown across the void, threads that are delicate and easily broken, and as strong as a wire that can carry a man. They connect. They cross the void between those different worlds. It worked. ...more I had a difficult time getting into this book but in the end I am glad I persevered. It is really a story about New York City in 1974 centered around Phillippe Petit's historic tight rope walk between the two towers of the World Trade Center. But the story itself trancends all that and takes us into the lives of some of the people whose days are coloured by this incredible feat and what unfolds is a powerful,complex tale of life, love, loss and redemption. I don't think I realized just how profo I had a difficult time getting into this book but in the end I am glad I persevered. It is really a story about New York City in 1974 centered around Phillippe Petit's historic tight rope walk between the two towers of the World Trade Center. But the story itself trancends all that and takes us into the lives of some of the people whose days are coloured by this incredible feat and what unfolds is a powerful,complex tale of life, love, loss and redemption. I don't think I realized just how profound and deeply felt this story was until I had finished it. It will be some time, no doubt, before I am done thinking about all this book brings to bear. ...more 5 \"Million, Billion, Trillion\" Stars!!! \"The world spins. We stumble on. It is enough\" I am not one for literary fiction. I mean, the life is profound enough, why read about it? It's just depressing, you know. This book is depressing too because it's just so, so beautiful. I read the first page and I stopped, and rubbed my face in it. Crazy, I know but sometimes you need to feel the texture of the words that touch you so deeply. This book is a masterpiece portrayal of 1974 New York City that is 5 \"Million, Billion, Trillion\" Stars!!! \"The world spins. We stumble on. It is enough\" I am not one for literary fiction. I mean, the life is profound enough, why read about it? It's just depressing, you know. This book is depressing too because it's just so, so beautiful. I read the first page and I stopped, and rubbed my face in it. Crazy, I know but sometimes you need to feel the texture of the words that touch you so deeply. This book is a masterpiece portrayal of 1974 New York City that is tied together by one tightrope walker. I don't know how to describe this book other than saying that this book is complicated, layered. But it is also simple and true. There a million people out there we don't know and we will never get to know them. But they touch our lives in a million ways. This book is about those people.This book is about connections we will never make but still, we have them. This book is about ordinary people who are special in their own way. This book is alive with people who die, who live and who move on. This book is perfect! Thank you, Professor for making me read this... Gah! I can't stop crying! ...more I wanted to remember some of the lines from this book so I wrote them in my journal. I haven't read anything in a while that has made me ache. The loss in this book and the admiration the narrators have for the central figure is overwhelming as you read it. The author has obviously lost someone special and has captured that loss on paper. Just gorgeously written, especially the chapters titled Miro, Miro on the Wall and Centavos. SPOILERS AHOY AHOY To describe this book would be misleading. It is I wanted to remember some of the lines from this book so I wrote them in my journal. I haven't read anything in a while that has made me ache. The loss in this book and the admiration the narrators have for the central figure is overwhelming as you read it. The author has obviously lost someone special and has captured that loss on paper. Just gorgeously written, especially the chapters titled Miro, Miro on the Wall and Centavos. SPOILERS AHOY AHOY To describe this book would be misleading. It is a tale of interwoven characters who don't know how they connect, each chapter is written from a different point of view, and there's some play with the chronology of the plot. Pretty standard fiction fare nowadays. Let the Great World Spin feels different to me because it executes a Maris-on-Frasier relationship. We never hear from Maris or McCann's character Corrigan directly, but we get a fully fleshed out character from hearsay. In Corrigan's case, he just keeps getting more and more wholesome and that wholesomeness radiates through the other characters in the novel. That delicate kind of wholesome that isn't preachy or judgmental. To me, the character Corrigan illustrates the reason I dislike Oprah. He felt no need to wear his good deeds like a medallion - he did not do the tremendously kind things he did for his own self-esteem or for an audience. He did them because it was right. The fact that the reader learns of Corrie's philanthropy is solely because we hear it from other characters. He would never tell us these things if he were to narrate. He was a reminder to people who most needed reminding that there is still good in the world. Similarities can easily be drawn between him and the unnamed tightrope walker. I would like to write about the tightrope walker and Corrie's differences. We are told the tightrope walker's intentions for walking out between the Twin Towers were because the Towers were there to be walked between. Since this stunt took place before reality tv shows and 24 hour news channels, I can somewhat believe it. But somewhere in there he must have done it for notoriety, don't we all have some wish to be remembered, or at least have our 15 minutes of fame? That's the main difference to me between the tightrope walker and Corrie. The only reason this book didn't get a 5 star from me is because of the phreakers chapter. I'm still wrapping my head around it. I wouldn't say it was a mismatch to the rest of the book; but its reason for being included isn't as obvious. Communication and distance are definite themes of the novel. The beginnings of the internet seem like a good locale for that discussion - but the rest of the book was so tightly written; much more obvious in its motives. Plus there was always a tie in to other characters of the novel somehow in other chapters. Maybe I should read it again, because I don't think any of the people the phreakers got a hold of tied in. ...more Let the great world spin. And the great world of New York did indeed spin in this book. How do you view melancholy and heartbreak as something pure and beautiful and riveting and just plain astounding? You read Colum McCann's work, that's how. It was an orchestra of sorts--the many different voices and narratives. McCann writes with so much lyricism, he makes you want to dance with the tightrope walker the book opens with (taken from the true 1974 story of Philippe Petit, by the way). Three word Let the great world spin. And the great world of New York did indeed spin in this book. How do you view melancholy and heartbreak as something pure and beautiful and riveting and just plain astounding? You read Colum McCann's work, that's how. It was an orchestra of sorts--the many different voices and narratives. McCann writes with so much lyricism, he makes you want to dance with the tightrope walker the book opens with (taken from the true 1974 story of Philippe Petit, by the way). Three word sentences and then one-page paragraph. Almost no dialogue and then a three-page dialogue-only scene. Simply-structured sentences combined with complex word vines. The prose is a web of bemusement, much like the characters. Ireland, a city I love reading about ever since Frank McCourt made tales of Ireland (and what one might call the 'Irish dialect' in literature) alluring. Yet McCann does not even come close to writing about Ireland the way in which he writes about New York. The New York he describes, I see clearly. I was a teenaged immigrant when I lived in New York City. Though I was fortunate to have parents who swore to keep us out of the projects even though they had lost everything when they emigrated, I walked the streets of the projects with my high school friends in Queens, where I lived. I visited the Bronx with them, where mothers leaned out of windows speaking in code, asking their sons to buy things I had no idea of then until I saw small bags exchanged through palms. Walked the projects of Staten Island with friends who had just moved there after escaping war in their homelands. Went to church in the middle of what was then Brooklyn's worst projects; Bedsty. Watched while some of my friends never made it through high school and some were deported for bad behavior. Sometimes it all seems unnerving, as if someone handed me a skateboard and I skated through all of it in slow motion. Now here goes McCann, illuminating it all, reminding me. He speaks of prostitution, drugs, death, etc. But mostly, the book probes about life and consequences, life and the decisions we make, life--the good, the ugly, the beautiful, the painful. Ciaran Corrigan was my favorite character. Then Jaslyn; the daughter of Jazzlyn the prostitute. Ciaran told the twisted story of his brother, John Corrigan, who was a priest living in the projects with prostitutes, and somehow he became their best friend and angel. But even a priest has struggles and even his family must deal with tragedy. Through Ciaran's narration, I wanted to move with the book and never let it go. Until about 80 pages in when the parallel narration took Ciaran away from me and introduced another character. And this is the only problem I had. The parallel narratives seemed almost like short stories that were later stringed into a novel. And since McCann was a short story writer, that theory may not be too far off. There was the overarching theme of New York, yes, and there were characters whose lives were later intertwined yes, but don't look to be driven by some plot alignment. I love short stories but I hate when I'm reading a novel and it starts to feel like a short story collection. You come across so many characters--which, I admit, seems befitting for New York. Though when I got to Tillie's narration (the older prostitute) it seemed a bit inauthentic because the New York-African American dialect was off. Great book and an author whose masterful prose I will gladly seek. \"The world spins. We stumble on. It is enough.\" 4.5 stars ...more An ambitious and complex novel set in New York in 1974. Each chapter tells the story of a different character, and it gradually becomes clear that they are much more linked than seems the case early on. McCann's characters are rounded and sympathetic, covering a wide cross section of New York society. The central inspiration is Philippe Petit's high wire walk between the towers of the World Trade Centre, and his story has a symbolic resonance that links the remaining tales of survival. If I have An ambitious and complex novel set in New York in 1974. Each chapter tells the story of a different character, and it gradually becomes clear that they are much more linked than seems the case early on. McCann's characters are rounded and sympathetic, covering a wide cross section of New York society. The central inspiration is Philippe Petit's high wire walk between the towers of the World Trade Centre, and his story has a symbolic resonance that links the remaining tales of survival. If I have a slight criticism it is that the last chapter, set in 2006, ties up the loose ends a little too neatly, but overall this was a very rewarding read. ...more I despise this book on so many levels. Primarily because it touches upon all the necessary/obvious hot points of recent American history: racism, Vietnam, 9/11, even hammering the latter home by ludicrously having a security guard tell someone they can't use their phone in a fricking airport terminal while waiting for luggage. Also: poverty, religion, class warfare, etc. It's as if some foreign writer came in to write about America and wanted to come away with all its dark secrets by scanning ne I despise this book on so many levels. Primarily because it touches upon all the necessary/obvious hot points of recent American history: racism, Vietnam, 9/11, even hammering the latter home by ludicrously having a security guard tell someone they can't use their phone in a fricking airport terminal while waiting for luggage. Also: poverty, religion, class warfare, etc. It's as if some foreign writer came in to write about America and wanted to come away with all its dark secrets by scanning newspaper headlines and popular magazines from the past thirty-five years. Which is exactly what happened. The writing is cloying and overwritten to the point of complete transparency. It feels excessively edited, as if done by committee. So often I wanted to throw this book at something hard and sharp, because the book lacked any edge. It avoided tension by making everyone into a martyr of some sort, which robbed them of their vitality. Lines that drove me insane: \"The squirrel scampered up a tree trunk, the sound of its nails like water in a tub.\" WTF?? \"A boy who was no more than eight played a saxophone... the music rang out in punctuated bursts over the graveyard.\" So did it ring, punctuate, or burst? If you play a saxophone beautifully, it does none of these things. Bullshit. \"She kicked aside a used needle with a deep sigh. It settled into the corner, a small bubble of blood at its tip.\" BULLSHIT. This person did not see a dab of blood on a needletip on the other side of a room in which the bulbs have been painted black. Overwritten tripe. \"... the day Sirhan Sirhan had pulled the malevolent trigger.\" Christ. Just tell the story. There were so many other examples but I just want to forget this book now. ...more New York City in 1974 was a run-down, uneasy place, trapped in a spiral of decay. Colum McCann's novel captures the spirit of the place and the people eloquently and movingly, the despair and isolation, the community and the hope. The stories of a disparate group of New Yorkers are linked together by Philippe Petit's tightrope walk between the Twin Towers: a monk working among prostitutes in the Bronx; his brother, newly arrived from Dublin; one of the prositutes; a Park Avenue matron (Claire, p New York City in 1974 was a run-down, uneasy place, trapped in a spiral of decay. Colum McCann's novel captures the spirit of the place and the people eloquently and movingly, the despair and isolation, the community and the hope. The stories of a disparate group of New Yorkers are linked together by Philippe Petit's tightrope walk between the Twin Towers: a monk working among prostitutes in the Bronx; his brother, newly arrived from Dublin; one of the prositutes; a Park Avenue matron (Claire, perhaps named to echo Clarissa Dalloway of whom she reminded me a bit) reaching out uncertainly to other mothers of soldiers killed in Vietnam; her judge husband; and a couple of art world refugees. While a few of the sections (particularly one of computer hackers working on the early Arpanet) are weaker than the others, overall, this beautifully written book was one that I never wanted to end. ...more This one never quite got off the page for me. Couple of reasons why: 1) The structure of the book--loosely connected novellas and stories--keeps the reader from getting to know any of the characters, constantly introducing new ones just when you get interested in the last, and totally abandoning a few who clearly have a lot more to say. 2) The component parts of the whole felt workshoppy--craft-wise, they're all a little too on the nose, and rarely did McCann offer any surprises to ameliorate ho This one never quite got off the page for me. Couple of reasons why: 1) The structure of the book--loosely connected novellas and stories--keeps the reader from getting to know any of the characters, constantly introducing new ones just when you get interested in the last, and totally abandoning a few who clearly have a lot more to say. 2) The component parts of the whole felt workshoppy--craft-wise, they're all a little too on the nose, and rarely did McCann offer any surprises to ameliorate how predictable all of it felt. 3) Many of the characters\u2019 connections came off as forced vehicles to further the novel\u2019s theme of inter-connectedness rather than as naturalistic development of plot or personality. 4) Not enough diversity of language to accommodate the diversity of the characters; at times, they all sounded alike and I would forget whose story I was reading. ...more I just finished Let the Great World Spin . WOW, I loved this book. You read it for the words, the thoughts that arise in you as you listen. You do not read this book for the plot. Maybe even parts are implausible, but that does not lessen the impact of the words. You cannot understand every line as you listen. Impossible. This is a book about life and how it whirls around you and how everything and everyone is interconnected. How can I describe this book..... it is poetry that does not rhyme. If I just finished Let the Great World Spin . WOW, I loved this book. You read it for the words, the thoughts that arise in you as you listen. You do not read this book for the plot. Maybe even parts are implausible, but that does not lessen the impact of the words. You cannot understand every line as you listen. Impossible. This is a book about life and how it whirls around you and how everything and everyone is interconnected. How can I describe this book..... it is poetry that does not rhyme. If I extract a few lines to show you, you will miss their import. They are part of the context, each line related to the next. Just as people are... Absolutely excellent narration. Some stories are fun. Some are sad. You get a perfect balance. You will not understand more if you read the paper book. To understand you have to stop and think and each one of us will come up with a different explanation. There is no right explanation. Do not be scared to read this book because you hear that is composed of different stories. It is, but they do all relate to each other. By the end you have learned about the lives of several disparate characters, maybe not every detail, but who they really are, what motivates and moves them. You see life and death and growth and disintegration and the world spins on with us little specks on the surface. But regardless of our smallness, we are each one of us important to each other. I loved this book. There are many other reviews out there. If you want to know the factual details of who does what and the role of each character, read another review. Me, I do not advise reading this book for its plot. I will just say this: Philippe Petit and his tightrope act between the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center, that is today now long gone, really did happen in NYC in 1974. The rest is wonderful, imaginative fiction. ****************** Narrators: Richard Poe, Gerard Doyle, Carol Monda, Johanna Parker, Ramon de Ocampo, Chris Sorensen, Patricia R. Floyd, Jim Frangione, Alma Cuervo, Lizan Mitchell, and Cherise Boothe. ...more When you google \u201cLet the Great World Spin\u201d together with \u201cweave\u201d, you get something like 130,000 hits. I guess that makes sense. It\u2019s the natural, albeit overused, word for what McCann did so well: tell multiple stories about multiple people with multiple themes, focusing on one point-of-view at a time, but with enough overlap to bind them together. (I tried to come up with a more distinctive metaphor, but my spinning disc with multi-colored curves coming from the center like one of those psyche When you google \u201cLet the Great World Spin\u201d together with \u201cweave\u201d, you get something like 130,000 hits. I guess that makes sense. It\u2019s the natural, albeit overused, word for what McCann did so well: tell multiple stories about multiple people with multiple themes, focusing on one point-of-view at a time, but with enough overlap to bind them together. (I tried to come up with a more distinctive metaphor, but my spinning disc with multi-colored curves coming from the center like one of those psychedelic swirl lollipops smacked of trying too hard.) Anyway\u2026 This was a very good book. I liked the way it was structured, with Frenchman Philippe Petit\u2019s historic walk on a tightrope between the Twin Towers in 1974 as the common strand in most of the stories. For any of you who saw Man on Wire , you know this was a pretty cool, real-life event. McCann\u2019s 10 other stories seemed like they could have been true, too. With millions of stories in the Naked City to work with, the challenge was to come up with a representative subset. And to combine them in the manner of a spinning disc with multi-colored curves coming from the center like one of those psychedelic swirl lollipops. (OK, I see it now: \u201cweave\u201d truly is better.) The cast of characters is as engaging as it is varied. We meet a modern-day urban monk, his brother from Ireland, mother-daughter prostitutes with hearts of something less clich\u00e9d than gold (though not like greasy black banana peels either), an unfortunate society lady whose son had been in Vietnam, her husband the municipal judge, her new friend in a support group who didn\u2019t know quite what to make of her (with race as a complicating factor), the nerdy developers who gave birth to the internet, an art photographer with a specialty in tagging, an artistic couple with integrity in varying degrees, and the daughter of one of the hookers, sent away and now grown, returning to tie up a few of the stories\u2019 loose ends. Phillippe features, too, though not always as a focal point. The writing, I thought, was top notch. The plots were engrossing and the descriptions gave a real sense of time and place. Plus, McCann lays out his words with a real rhythmic flair. Spun or woven, read and enjoy. ...more Further update: Apparently there is an ongoing audience for this review, based on recent comments, and I might have hurt their reading pleasure \"cuz\" I didn't indicate there were SPOILERS!! Heck, I was just trying to save folks some precious reading time; doubt reading this will affect your like or dislike of the book. But watch for the WARNINGS. UPDATE. After some colleagues urged me to try it again, I plowed on, finished it, and am willing to move it up to 3 stars. Well written, but still too dis Further update: Apparently there is an ongoing audience for this review, based on recent comments, and I might have hurt their reading pleasure \"cuz\" I didn't indicate there were SPOILERS!! Heck, I was just trying to save folks some precious reading time; doubt reading this will affect your like or dislike of the book. But watch for the WARNINGS. UPDATE. After some colleagues urged me to try it again, I plowed on, finished it, and am willing to move it up to 3 stars. Well written, but still too disjointed, hopping from one unfinished vignette to another, the connections being too loose or too forced for me to enjoy. The characters were too one-dimensional. (SPOILER ALERT, avert your eyes until the end of the paragraph!!) The ending seemed pretty lame to me as well--the slacker brother becomes a rich software mogul married to the avant-garde artiste whose former husband (and whatever happened to him? he could have become a junkie male hooker and become a part of the cast of that story, or maybe found God and took up where Corrigan left off, ministering to the hookers...) caused the wreck that led to the death of the too good to be true priest and the junkie hooker, who is redeemed by having a decent daughter, thanks to the efforts of the smart and sensitive but downtrodden black lady who was part of the informal support group of moms who'd lost sons in Vietnam, one of whose members was the Park Avenue wife of the judge who sentenced the hooker grandmother to jail... (OK to start reading again) ...blah blah blah. My friends cried at the end. I was sad I hadn't spent time on a better book. (The Old) Another critically acclaimed work of \"literate\" fiction that I've left unfinished. I couldn't even get through the first of the sub-stories, that of the devoted-to-celibacy, -poverty, etc. Irish monk living in squalor among the drug addicts/prostitutes of Harlem, as narrated by his slacker brother. Their characters as boys interested me, but the story of life in Harlem just dragged on, and eventually I got bored. Never got to the other stories and their connections to the first. ...more Sono cos\u00ec dispiaciuta di aver finito di leggerlo, che l'unico modo per goderne ancora \u00e8 consigliarlo a tutti. Premessa: molto spesso le mie letture provengono dalla biblioteca. Purtroppo la mia fame \u201cletteraria\u201d non va di pari passo con le mie entrate. Cos\u00ec, i libri che invece decido di acquistare sono il frutto di un lungo corteggiamento, che passa attraverso le recensioni, sguardi fugaci attraverso le vetrine della libreria, ricerca di note sull'autore. A volte prendo delle cantonate incredibil Sono cos\u00ec dispiaciuta di aver finito di leggerlo, che l'unico modo per goderne ancora \u00e8 consigliarlo a tutti. Premessa: molto spesso le mie letture provengono dalla biblioteca. Purtroppo la mia fame \u201cletteraria\u201d non va di pari passo con le mie entrate. Cos\u00ec, i libri che invece decido di acquistare sono il frutto di un lungo corteggiamento, che passa attraverso le recensioni, sguardi fugaci attraverso le vetrine della libreria, ricerca di note sull'autore. A volte prendo delle cantonate incredibili, a volte no. A volte come in questo caso, raggiungo l'apoteosi del mio \u201cbaratto figurato\u201d. Immagino i soldi che consegno direttamente nelle mani dell'autore, e corrispettivamente immagino l'autore che mi fa scivolare nella mano un pugno di emozioni che entrano nel mio animo. Allora la beatitudine mi si stampa in viso, e passo i giorni dopo aver chiuso il libro a rigirarmelo tra le mani, come un innamorato maneggia fino a consumarla, la prima lettera d'amore ricevuta. C'\u00e8 chi con la carta fa origami a forma di gru. Se vengono bene puoi tenerle nella mano e stanno in piedi da sole. C'\u00e8 chi con le parole fa origami a forma di storie. Se vengono bene ti attraversano il cuore, senza bisogno di chiederti la chiave. E questo romanzo \u00e8 pieno di origami. \u00c8 pieno di storie palpitanti. Un equilibrista le guarda dall'alto e le congela in un'istantanea a colori. Noi non facciamo altro che leggere il puzzle che compone quella foto. Storie e vite in bilico come il funambolo che le contempla senza vederle.. in bilico tra presente e futuro, tra dolore ed espiazione, tra errori atavici e salvezza, tra disperazione e riscatto, tra amore sudicio e amore immacolato. Ma alla fine del libro, proprio all'ultimissima pagina la consapevolezza \u00e8 una sola.. che c'\u00e8 una fede che a volte non sappiamo di avere, ed \u00e8 una fede connaturata alla nostra stessa esistenza, che cammina sempre sopra una corda tesa sul nulla, e sulla fune siamo in perfetta solitudine, noi e la nostra fede in qualcosa. E chi se ne frega dei nostri buoni propositi, delle nostre intenzioni, possiamo sempre cadere da un momento all'altro, ma possiamo anche arrivare alla fine del filo; e se ci arriviamo, chi ci tende la mano \u00e8 proprio lei, la fede, la meta, l'amore, l'amicizia, la serenit\u00e0, tutte facce di una stessa medaglia. Una piccola medaglia, quasi una monetina da 5 centesimi, che possiamo deporre sulla linea dell'orizzonte durante il tramonto, e accorgerci che ha la stessa forma del Sole. Una frase per tutte: \"C'\u00e8 chi pensa che l'amore sia la fine della strada, e che se si \u00e8 abbastanza fortunati da trovarlo ci si ferma l\u00ec. Altri dicono che \u00e8 come un burrone nel quale si precipita. Ma chiunque abbia vissuto almeno un po' sa che muta con il passare dei giorni, e secondo l'energia che gli si dedica, lo si conserva o ci si aggrappa, oppure lo si perde, ma a volte capita che non sia nemmeno mai stato l\u00ec, sin dall'inizio.\" (Pag.395) ...more El 7 de agosto de 1974, las personas m\u00e1s cercanas al World Trade Center pudieron observar un hecho asombroso e incre\u00edble: hab\u00eda un hombre en la cornisa de una de las Torres Gemelas. Por un momento, cuando se dispon\u00eda a dar un paso adelante, parec\u00eda que se iba a tirar al vac\u00edo, pero no era as\u00ed: el hombre estaba caminando sobre un cable que un\u00eda las dos torres, a 110 pisos de altura, a 400 metros de altura. A esa distancia era como si estuviese volando. Hace poco he vuelto a ver la pel\u00edcula docume El 7 de agosto de 1974, las personas m\u00e1s cercanas al World Trade Center pudieron observar un hecho asombroso e incre\u00edble: hab\u00eda un hombre en la cornisa de una de las Torres Gemelas. Por un momento, cuando se dispon\u00eda a dar un paso adelante, parec\u00eda que se iba a tirar al vac\u00edo, pero no era as\u00ed: el hombre estaba caminando sobre un cable que un\u00eda las dos torres, a 110 pisos de altura, a 400 metros de altura. A esa distancia era como si estuviese volando. Hace poco he vuelto a ver la pel\u00edcula documental 'Man on Wire' , donde se cuenta con detalle c\u00f3mo fue planificado el \"golpe\", y de nuevo me he emocionado. Ese hombre, con su p\u00e9rtiga, caminando, a veces corriendo, por la cuerda floja es incre\u00edble. Hay un momento en que incluso se tumba sobre el cable, \u00bfpod\u00e9is imaginarlo?, y es de l\u00e1grimas en los ojos. Es escalofriante, sobrecogedor, hermoso, un poema viviente, y s\u00f3lo pod\u00eda suceder donde suele suceder todo: Nueva York. El nombre de este h\u00e9roe es Philippe Petit. Pero la historia contada por Colum McCann en 'Que el vasto mundo siga girando' , ganadora del National Book Award en 2009, entre otros premios, no trata sobre Petit y su haza\u00f1a. La historia y los protagonistas son otros, aunque Petit tambi\u00e9n aparece en ciertos momentos. McCann utiliza la haza\u00f1a de Petit como trasfondo para su novela. Realmente no hay un \u00fanico protagonista en el libro, pues se trata de una novela coral. Me parece magn\u00edfico sobre todo c\u00f3mo McCann hila las vivencias de los protagonistas, formando un collage en el que todo est\u00e1 conectado, y como si del funambulista se tratase, el lector, desde las alturas de Nueva York, entra en conocimiento de todo lo que les acontece. Los protagonistas y sus historias son varios. Estamos en 1974, un a\u00f1o importante para los americanos, cuando Nixon dimiti\u00f3. En primer lugar tenemos a dos hermanos irlandeses, donde Ciaran visita a Corrigan. Desde siempre, \u00e9ste ha intentado ayudar a los necesitados, y ahora pertenece a una orden que le ha destinado a Nueva York. Aqu\u00ed Corrigan trata de ayudar en los posible a las prostitutas de su calle, aunque ello comporte cierto riesgo para \u00e9l. Esta manera de vivir, casi en la pobreza y rodeado de peligro, no son para nada del gusto de su hermano Ciaran. Esta parte de la historia es francamente buena, porque se nos muestra, mediante los recuerdos de Ciaran, c\u00f3mo era su vida anterior, as\u00ed como tambi\u00e9n somos testigos del Nueva York m\u00e1s miserable. Otro personaje importante es Claire, una mujer rica cuya vida qued\u00f3 destrozada al morir su \u00fanico hijo en la guerra de Vietnam. En el momento de conocerla, se dispone a recibir a una amigas en su casa; se trata de un grupo de madres que tienen en com\u00fan la p\u00e9rdida de hijos en la guerra, y cuyas reuniones sirven como ayuda al compartir sus tragedias. Lara es otra protagonista de la novela con un papel fundamental. Es una mujer joven, pintora, y casada tambi\u00e9n con un artista, y ambos est\u00e1n sumergidos en un mundo de drogas. Hay m\u00e1s personajes de los cu\u00e1les iremos conociendo su papel en la historia: Gloria, una mujer negra perteneciente al grupo de Claire; el juez Solomon, marido de Claire; Tillie, una prostituta amiga de Corrigan; Fernando, fot\u00f3grafo aficionado; un grupo de hackers ... Llega un momento en que es mejor no comentar nada m\u00e1s de los personajes, porque sus historias est\u00e1n conectadas y es mejor desentra\u00f1arlas por uno mismo. Colum McCann ha escrito una maravillosa novela, en la que sus personajes tienen vida propia, de manera que a su t\u00e9rmino no puedes evitar el sentir cierta tristeza, ya que no volver\u00e1s a saber m\u00e1s de ellos. Como se dice en la novela: \"No solemos saber qu\u00e9 es lo que o\u00edmos cuando o\u00edmos algo por primera vez, pero una cosa es cierta: lo o\u00edmos como jam\u00e1s volveremos a o\u00edrlo. Supongo que regresamos al momento para experimentarlo, pero la verdad es que nunca podemos encontrarlo, sino s\u00f3lo su recuerdo, la huella m\u00e1s tenue de lo que realmente fue, lo que significaba.\" ...more Ah, Dear God, this man knows how to write and send the human soul soaring after the resurrection from the dark night of the spirit. Funny story: I met Colum at the Yale Writers' Conference at a lecture on writing at the Quinnipiac Club in New Haven. (Sorry, if that may sound pretentious: it's only just the setting for the back story.) Colum spoke with a gripping presentation and every word was a bullet about the fine art, the holy art, the desperate art of writing literary fiction. At one point Ah, Dear God, this man knows how to write and send the human soul soaring after the resurrection from the dark night of the spirit. Funny story: I met Colum at the Yale Writers' Conference at a lecture on writing at the Quinnipiac Club in New Haven. (Sorry, if that may sound pretentious: it's only just the setting for the back story.) Colum spoke with a gripping presentation and every word was a bullet about the fine art, the holy art, the desperate art of writing literary fiction. At one point he started to talk about plot and then broke off mid-sentence and said, \"Forget it. Plot is juvenile.\" As a Dubliner his respect for James Joyce clearly was both obligatory and immense: it would be unpatriotic to show anything less than enduring homage to the greatest literary novelist of the 20th century when Colum, himself, aspired to be the same in the 21st. So at the end of his discourse, ending with the caution that one should \"Try not to be a dick,\" he asked for questions. So I raised a hand to posit a singularly dickish question, indeed, the most dickish question ever conceived to spring upon a good natured Irishman, as he certainly appeared to be. My question: \"If James Joyce based 'Ulysses' upon story lines emanating from Homer's 'Odyssey,' then how is plot juvenile?\" I know, I blush to recall such dickishness in a Pantheon of the Ivy League, no less. But his response was inspiring: \"It's all about the words,\" said Colum. \"It's all about the words.\" So a long queue forms to buy his paperback novels and gain a valued autograph: a man of the blue collar has to make a living, after all. So I sally forth near the head of the line and buy three novels for him to sign, including \"Let the Great World Spin.\" Waiting patiently, my turn finally comes to shake hands with someone I have never before read or even heard of. I see from his bio that he teaches Creative Writing at CUNY and is, as expected, a James Joyce aficionado of the first order. I identify myself straight-away: \"I'm the dick who asked you the question about the plot of 'Ulysses.' I try but sometimes cannot help myself when it comes to being a dick.\" He politely replies, \"I know.\" And he smiles beneath his pork pie hat. Because now I am redeemed as a patron, a sponsor, a book buyer holding three of his award-winning novels, chosen randomly, in my hand. \"My daughter graduated from CUNY. Hunter College. An English major. I hope to live long enough into my 90's to pay back the college loans for tuition as she was an out-of-state student (CT).\" He smiles, again. \"I asked you my question to draw you out on the value of plot. Because I wrote the American sequel to 'Ulysses' and its humble plot follows naturally from James Joyce and Homer.\" So he pauses and asks, \"What's it called?\" I answer, \"'Bloomsday: The Bostoniad.' The novel takes place in Boston after the War in Vietnam.\" This response resonates with Colum McCann at Yale. \"What's your favorite quote from 'Ulysses'?\" he wants to know. I reply, that it's the last one of the novel by Molly Bloom: \"yes I said yes I will Yes.\" So he pens into the novel a brief note to me in \"Let the Great World Spin\": \"perhaps, I said, perhaps.\" Then he gives me the name of a connection in Dublin to whom I should send the manuscript of \"Bloomsday\" if I'm interested in foreign rights. I am. So I send the MS to his connection and I hear nothing after a heroic couplet of months. Although I may be an occasional dick, I am also a patient man. So while possibly waiting for Godot, I read Colum's novel, which has won a National Book Award and guess what? It turns out to be a masterpiece literary novel. The ultimate compliment I can give to any novel is that I wish I had written it. And so it is with \"Let the Great World Spin.\" It's a genius work ending with these words of wisdom: \"The world spins. We stumble on. It is enough.\" If you have better advice, I would love to hear it. For the love of all that's holy, write me, Brendan. And try not to be a dick. ...more This is the current read of our Cayo Hueso Literary Salon. I've just read through the reviews of my GR friends, mostly 4* and 5*. From somewhere among those reviews, I have the thought that this book shows that each of us, at some time in our lives, approaches the high wire of life, if we dare, fraught with opportunity and danger. Now to read the book. BTW, if you haven't seen it, I recommend you see MAN ON THE WIRE. Netflix has it. I have read the first chapter, dealing with the two Corrigan brot This is the current read of our Cayo Hueso Literary Salon. I've just read through the reviews of my GR friends, mostly 4* and 5*. From somewhere among those reviews, I have the thought that this book shows that each of us, at some time in our lives, approaches the high wire of life, if we dare, fraught with opportunity and danger. Now to read the book. BTW, if you haven't seen it, I recommend you see MAN ON THE WIRE. Netflix has it. I have read the first chapter, dealing with the two Corrigan brothers from Ireland who have ended up in the Bronx. It is beautifully structured and written but oh, so depressing. These guys are leading a life that is surely precariously balanced on a high wire of their own making. Along the way, there is fascinating reflection on our opportunity and need to relate to God, who may or may not hear what we say/think, and also on the impact of the vow of celibacy, troubling to all of us, not just priests, in light of the sexual abuse of children by supposedly celibate priests. The 2nd chapter is very powerful and no less depressing. A litany of deaths, by every means imaginable. Falling off the wire. Angry at the man on the wire. \"How dare he do that with his own body? Throwing his life in everyone's face? Making her own son's death seem so cheap? Yes, he has intruded on Claire's coffee morning. Now that I've finished the book... My reaction to it is more positive, but not unreservedly so. Let's start with the positives. The writing continued to be superb. McCann has a marvelous ability to describe a setting or a character. The emotional content also increased, as we are shown stirring human values even in substantially wasted lives. And the ending actually provided a slice of hope, evidence that rising from the slime is possible, given coordinated and persistent love and effective help from even one or two people who care. But ... The author challenged himself with a literary walk on the high wire, and in my view did not make it to the other side. The story is not told in a linear fashion. The time frame jumps forward and backward as often as the point-of-view character changes. As other GR readers have said, it is more a series of somewhat linked short stories than it is a novel. Almost every new scene was confusing and, to me, irritating. Who is this unnamed person? Where does he/she fit? Is this event happening before or after the last time we met this character? Even if this confusion was resolved within a page or two, it nevertheless unbalanced the flow of my reading. By the time that flow was reestablished, the scene was over and another scene created a new disruption. The lack of a single protagonist to carry the emotion of the story made the unsettling disruptions worse. Every time I began to feel something, the story line and character which had evoked those feelings disappeared and the emotion dissipated. I could never really settle in to enjoy the story. Was this the author\u2019s intent? A clue to this intent is found in the interview with the author at the end of the book. \"Did you envision the whole plot of this book in advance?\" he is asked. McCann answers, \u201cI just got happily lost over and over again! It\u2019s a fairly intricate maze, but I never mapped it out, it just kept unfolding for me. There were times I didn\u2019t feel like I was writing it at all. I was being blown around by twelve different voices.\u201d The result of this haphazard approach was unsatisfying for me. Some confusion is fine, but I don't like a book totally structured that way. Had the high wire guy prepared in that manner, he would never have gotten to the top of the towers, and would surely have fallen off if he had. My conclusion: many pieces of \"Let The Great World Spin\" were well researched and beautifully told, but for me the whole was less than its parts. It's hard to decide when there are such disparate elements, but I end up with 3*. ...more La sola cosa per cui valeva la pena intristirsi era sapere che a volte in questa vita c'\u00e8 pi\u00f9 bellezza di quanta il mondo possa reggerne. Ci sono libri che mentre li leggi pensi a quanto ti sarebbe piaciuto se fossi stato tu a scriverli. Libri che, volente o nolente, esercitano su di te una forza, come dire - narrativa? di una potenza inimmaginabile. Un brano specifico pu\u00f2 farti scoppiare in lacrime. Quando apri questi libri per la prima volta ancora non lo sai. Alla fine, ti rimangono le emozi La sola cosa per cui valeva la pena intristirsi era sapere che a volte in questa vita c'\u00e8 pi\u00f9 bellezza di quanta il mondo possa reggerne. Ci sono libri che mentre li leggi pensi a quanto ti sarebbe piaciuto se fossi stato tu a scriverli. Libri che, volente o nolente, esercitano su di te una forza, come dire - narrativa? di una potenza inimmaginabile. Un brano specifico pu\u00f2 farti scoppiare in lacrime. Quando apri questi libri per la prima volta ancora non lo sai. Alla fine, ti rimangono le emozioni. Questo libro parla di persone. Non \u00e8 un romanzo d'amore. Comunque, il titolo italiano, sebbene differente da quello originale, \u00e8 pi\u00f9 che azzeccato. Le vite narrate in questo romanzo parlano di persone bisognose di amore e di baci. A volte sarebbe bastato poco per cambiare loro la vita. Ma quasi sempre sono costrette a rimanere chiuse nella sofferenza, la perdita, il rimorso, la morte interiore. Ogni persona ha perso se stessa. O ha perso una persona cara. O ha perso le proprie convinzioni. Attraverso un processo salvifico, che \u00e8 quasi sempre l'amore, queste persone possono tornare a sorridere. Vivere felici, non rassegnate, mai rassegnate, quel che manca loro da vivere. Accettano il dolore e lo rendono una base fondamentale del loro carattere. La vita ci viene raccontata con uno stile fresco, fluido, contemporaneo. Si adatta a ogni personaggio, con le dovute sfumature. Drammatico e straziante (ma bellissimo, forse il pi\u00f9 bello) il secondo capitolo, \"Mir\u00f2, Mir\u00f2, delle mie brame\". Un monaco di strada, alcune prostitute, madri che hanno perso i figli in Vietnam, artisti persi nella droga. Sono le vite dei reietti messe a confronti con il lusso di Park Avenue. \u00c8 il sentimento umano in tutti i suoi rami contorti. La comprensione sta nelle parole. La dolcezza delle storie, del raccontare. Il dialogo e la confessione come metodo di espiazione del peccato. Abbiamo bisogno di aprirci, di piangere, di amare, di baciare la persona che ci piace, di correre, saltare, vivere, urlare che siamo capaci di andare avanti nonostante tutto. Questo \u00e8 ci\u00f2 che dice il romanzo alla fine. \u00c8 un inno alla vita. Usa il dolore per farci vivere. Abbracciare il nostro amico. Sorridere a uno sconosciuto. Prendere la sofferenza, la morte di coloro che amiamo e metterla dentro di noi, ma in fondo in fondo, dove non la pu\u00f2 vedere nessuno, dove \u00e8 solo nostra e di chi ci ha ascoltato, in modo che la vita possa tornare a splendere, perch\u00e9 tutti ci meritiamo che per un po' splenda per noi. \"C'era in lei la bellezza dei vinti\". ...more At first I didn't really like this. It fell into the same category as the movie Crash which spawned a bunch of copycats, a disparate group of people somehow tied together by some event. I did like Crash , which was the first of that sort of movies I'd seen, but every other one seemed too derivative; it's an idea that's only fresh once. Also, this is by an Irish author and opens in Ireland, but while reading this my interest in all things Irish took a nosedive so I was set to be negative towards i At first I didn't really like this. It fell into the same category as the movie Crash which spawned a bunch of copycats, a disparate group of people somehow tied together by some event. I did like Crash , which was the first of that sort of movies I'd seen, but every other one seemed too derivative; it's an idea that's only fresh once. Also, this is by an Irish author and opens in Ireland, but while reading this my interest in all things Irish took a nosedive so I was set to be negative towards it. But after the initial pages, the stories moved over to New York City and it became almost a love letter to that location. Some of the paragraphs had a strange rhythm, a bunch of fragments like following a twisting vein of some kind of mined ore. The author's afterward stated something about trying to capture a texture and I think that's the right word for it, texture, the bumps and grooved surface of New York City. As far as novels go, there wasn't too much that happened. Some action, but not improbable or explosive. There is tragedy and injustice, but what struck me was the sense of these people living their days. I think I like that sense because it gives me the tentative thought that maybe someone will look upon my own unremarkable life with such tenderness. Probably not, but it's nice to think so. ...more A superb writer. Have read at least a couple of his others, but this is the best so far. 10 stars. This is the best book I have read in years. Brilliant. I want to go back and immediately re-read it. The pure celebration of us all. Our stories. There are so many individual stories in the world. Meaningless and full of meaning, all at once. Now to go back and re read it, to savour it more slowly, to study the craftsmanship, the carved swirls, the sleek lines, the artistry at the back as well as t A superb writer. Have read at least a couple of his others, but this is the best so far. 10 stars. This is the best book I have read in years. Brilliant. I want to go back and immediately re-read it. The pure celebration of us all. Our stories. There are so many individual stories in the world. Meaningless and full of meaning, all at once. Now to go back and re read it, to savour it more slowly, to study the craftsmanship, the carved swirls, the sleek lines, the artistry at the back as well as the front. ...more", "Title": "Let the Great World Spin"},
