{"Comments": "this is my favorite in the series so far! let's see if the last olympian will top it.<---F> full video review coming sooooooon</---F>. Why did I wait so long to read these? I have no good explanation and if you ask me I'll just give you the shifty eyes and mumble something incoherent because I don't have a good reason. What counts though is that I am reading them now right? On the upside I don't have to agonize for the long wait for new books to come out, but still... if I had just known! So as expected Percy's summer is going to be filled with another quest and yet another colossal problem that brings him closer to the prophecy Why did I wait so long to read these? I have no good explanation and if you ask me I'll just give you the shifty eyes and mumble something incoherent because I don't have a good reason. What counts though is that I am reading them now right? On the upside I don't have to agonize for the long wait for new books to come out, but still... if I had just known! So as expected Percy's summer is going to be filled with another quest and yet another colossal problem that brings him closer to the prophecy. This time around Annabeth is in charge of the quest and they will have to find Daedalus,<---M> the creator of the Labyrinth</---M>, to stop Kronos from attacking Camp Half-Blood. Of course the Labyrinth is no regular maze. It shifts and deceives and there are a butt-load of monsters on every corner. In the mix we have Rachel Dare who we meet briefly in the last book, and she will play a major role here. We get to see what Nico is up to, and I gotta say I really liked him in this one. Can Percy, Annabeth, Grover, and Tyson solve the maze in time to find Daedalus before Luke does? There is this one scene where Percy is alone and contemplating a tough decision he has to make and I took a little sniff and thought, \"Aww.. Percy is growing up.\" Just like they all are. Things are getting to be more dangerous and we are getting nearer to the climax. More pieces of the puzzle are being presented and Riordan is being crafty just like a good storyteller would be. I actually can't fathom how he keeps up with all of it. All these gods, monsters, and plot-lines to follow; truly great stuff. As you can tell I'm totally pumped to read the last book which I know will not disappoint. The Last Olympian here I come! ...more SO MUCH YES. This series gets better with each book! It was the best book of the series so far. Wow. Percy. Annabeth. Nico. Holy crap. So good.. So good. (<---B>And let's not mention the kiss. Okay bye.</---B>) After a week of some truly disappointing reads, I am thoroughly glad to say that Percy Jackson and The Battle of The Labyrinth lived up to my expectations and was utterly engaging. ............................... Half-boy, half-God Percy Jackson starts off the new school year by battling a pair of \u2018 Empousai \u2019 and blowing up his school. Again. He also runs into Rachel Elizabeth Dare , the mysterious mortal girl who can see through the mist. It\u2019s time to head back to Camp Half-Blood, because troub After a week of some truly disappointing reads, I am thoroughly glad to say that Percy Jackson and The Battle of The Labyrinth lived up to my expectations and was utterly engaging. ............................... Half-boy, half-God Percy Jackson starts off the new school year by battling a pair of \u2018 Empousai \u2019 and blowing up his school. Again. He also runs into Rachel Elizabeth Dare , the mysterious mortal girl who can see through the mist. It\u2019s time to head back to Camp Half-Blood, because trouble is brewing\u2026huge, scary \u2018 the-TITANS-are-plotting-dastardly-plots \u2019 kind of trouble. The ancient Lord Kronos is slowly reforming, aided by Luke and his unearthly army. Kronos' plan is to invade Camp Half-Blood, raze it to the ground along with it\u2019s heroes and then head off to destroy the Olympians. Although the camp members were under the impression that Camp Half-Blood was impenetrable, they soon realize that Luke intends to invade it through one of the exits of the famous underground Labyrinth . Percy and gang decide to head into the Labyrinth themselves and discover Daedalus\u2019s ( the creator of the Labyrinth ) workshop, so that they can find a way to stop the invasion. Piece o'cake, right? T-ch , you never learn, do you? The Labyrinth is supposed to be the only piece of architecture that changes constantly. Even the creator Daedalus himself has no control over it. Tunnels change, new ones pop up, traps are laid at the most unexpected places and monsters are lurking just around the corner. Sadly, backtracking is never a good option because you never know what is in store for you...left, right, back or front. A person could enter the maze and never get out. Ever. Add to that the constant threat of running into Luke\u2019s demonic army and Percy has his job cut out. Is Percy doomed to roam forever in the mind-boggling Labyrinth? Will Grover finally find the lost God Pan ? Will Annabeth\u2019s faith in Luke lead to her downfall? Will Nico allow his festering thirst for revenge to overpower him? And will the heroes survive to fight another day? All that and much more.....perfectly packaged in another superb instalment by <---A>Rick Riordan</---A> . ............................... Percy Jackson, the prince of understatement, is as quick with his trusted sword \u2018Riptide\u2019 as he is with the droll quips and quicksilver action sequences. Added to the equation is the fledgling love-triangle between him and his two leading ladies. A brave and self-deprecating hero, Percy has you rooting for him till the last page. If I could garner up more than 5 stars for this delightful gem, I would. ...more The fourth novel in the Percy Jackson series was rather polarizing for me. On the one hand, it represented an aggressive move from the usually harmless adventures of the young teens, to a darker and bloodier novel. I welcome the change, especially since I have complained in some of the novels that there was a definite lack of permanence and actual stakes. The book is packed with nicely written and powerful scenes and, as a coherent whole, I felt very in tune with Battle of the Labyrinth. The titu The fourth novel in the Percy Jackson series was rather polarizing for me. On the one hand, it represented an aggressive move from the usually harmless adventures of the young teens, to a darker and bloodier novel. I welcome the change, especially since I have complained in some of the novels that there was a definite lack of permanence and actual stakes. The book is packed with nicely written and powerful scenes and, as a coherent whole, I felt very in tune with Battle of the Labyrinth. The titular setting \u2013 the ever-shifting Labyrinth that magically connects various places through a complex series of underground tunnels \u2013 was suitably oppressive. Strange as it may seem, I loved feeling compressed under all those tons of earth, trying to find the way out. I guess I just love night time, so imagine how I felt imagining myself in a place where it's always night. Ok, it was also filled with monsters and other dangers, but still... Anyway, on the most part, the heroes are set on defending their camp from the Titan Lord: Kronos and his growing army as he gathers his strength and plans on wiping out Camp Half-Blood and Olympus itself, before enslaving/destroying humanity along the way. Suitably high stakes, and with an actual battle in the last few chapters of the novel, it does live up to its name, and finally shows us why these Half-Bloods have been training half their lives. As the story goes on, Percy and Annabeth\u2019s relationship crawls along awkwardly, with some kind of tension between them, along with adolescent \"confused feelings\" and jealousy. It\u2019s all a bit painful to read, honestly. Some of the minor characters introduced to the plot are only there for a few specific scenes, and vanish without a second thought just chapters later. Grover\u2019s finally gets some closure on his quest to find the great god Pan. With all this loose ends being connected, I felt like Battle of the Labyrinth was a \"filler\" novel. It had its moments, but it was largely just wrapping up some plot threads from the previous novel, as though Rick Riordan really wanted to start the final book with a clean slate. Overall, this novel isn't particularly bad, but it isn\u2019t particularly good. Compared to Titan\u2019s Curse, it feels like it\u2019s lacking a coherent plot thread; the ending felt a little rushed. Also, the characters are starting to feel flat and worn-out, recycling the same emotions and desires. Still, I liked it well enough, even though I wish some nuances of the story had been better developed. Interesting quotes that I didn't include in the review: People are more difficult to work with than machines. And when you break a person, he can't be fixed. ...more Okay, so this is probably my favorite book in the Percy Jackson series so far!! I loved all of the characters in this book, but my favorites would definitely have to be Annabeth and Percy!!!!! \"squeals\" :D This book was very action-packed and fast-paced to me and I enjoyed it very much. I am so glad that I stared this series, but I am also so sad because there is only one book left :( I am trying to decide if I should just read The Last Olympian now, or wait so I won't be finished with the serie Okay, so this is probably my favorite book in the Percy Jackson series so far!! I loved all of the characters in this book, but my favorites would definitely have to be Annabeth and Percy!!!!! \"squeals\" :D This book was very action-packed and fast-paced to me and I enjoyed it very much. I am so glad that I stared this series, but I am also so sad because there is only one book left :( I am trying to decide if I should just read The Last Olympian now, or wait so I won't be finished with the series lol :p ...more This was happy and sad at the same time. *sigh* I've read the first four books in this series to Celyn now and got her #5 for her birthday. A fun read, though the monsters get steadily more outlandish as Rick mines the lesser known corners of Greek myth. In this book we meet the Empousa who are pictured as wearing brazen slippers and bearing flaming hair. The name is said to mean \"one-footed.\" This is because they are a one-legged hybrid, with a donkey's leg and a celestial bronze prosthetic leg... Part of me is wondering how long before South I've read the first four books in this series to Celyn now and got her #5 for her birthday. A fun read, though the monsters get steadily more outlandish as Rick mines the lesser known corners of Greek myth. In this book we meet the Empousa who are pictured as wearing brazen slippers and bearing flaming hair. The name is said to mean \"one-footed.\" This is because they are a one-legged hybrid, with a donkey's leg and a celestial bronze prosthetic leg... Part of me is wondering how long before South Park's Scuzzlebutt turns up with a hand that's made of celery and Patrick Duffy for a left leg? We also meet Kampe who is depicted as having the head and upper body of a beautiful woman, the lower body of a dragon, a massive scorpion's tail full of venom, snakes around her ankles, and 50 grisly heads of various creatures (wolves, snakes, bears, lions...) bubbling around her waist. She also possesses black wings on her back and a pair of envenomed swords! The labyrinth itself and Daedalus were interestingly portrayed. Percy's girl cluelessness continues unabated. And the Luke/Kronos plot comes to a bubble. I also liked the rather silly Mrs O'Leary hell hound and the issue of giant dog biscuits and squeaky pink full-sized buffalo chew toys. Normally the inconsistent level of farce and semi-seriousness would bug me, but the series' style and charm has somehow inured me to it. Celyn continues to make her 'yes' sign when I ask if I should give these books 5* and who am I to argue with the expert? Percy hits 16 next book - should be fun! Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes ...more ANOTHER AMAZING 5 STARS FOR AN AMAZING BOOK REACTION AFTER READING THE BOOK MY FAVORITE FROM THIS SERIES, SO FAR. I'm crossing my fingers that the last book would be even better! Usually, I hate series, and I tend to stop mid-series run because I get bored or lose interest. That isn't the case with this one. I am absolutely, irrevocably, hooked with The Percy Jackson world, and I would, most definitely, read the other spin-off series. RICK RIORDAN, you are amazing! Keep these myth-inspired books coming! LONG STORY SHORT A lost God Love-squar REACTION AFTER READING THE BOOK MY FAVORITE FROM THIS SERIES, SO FAR. I'm crossing my fingers that the last book would be even better! Usually, I hate series, and I tend to stop mid-series run because I get bored or lose interest. That isn't the case with this one. I am absolutely, irrevocably, hooked with The Percy Jackson world, and I would, most definitely, read the other spin-off series. RICK RIORDAN, you are amazing! Keep these myth-inspired books coming! LONG STORY SHORT A lost God Love-square? A possession Death A labyrinth A friend or an enemy? THINGS WORTH MENTIONING 1. PERCY IS A DEMIGOD, BUT HE'S ALSO A TEENAGER Percy may be the only chance Olympus have of surviving, but let's all remember, he's also just a teenage boy, with teenage emotions. I liked that Rick Riordan did not forget this when he wrote about Percy. I would have hated to see Percy be this teenage boy who could go through anything, but not the ones that he has to go through as a teenager. 2. DEATH Death is inevitable in George RR Martin's Game of Thrones. I think Riordan took some cues and decided it was okay to kill a character, or two, per book. 3. PERCYBETH I ship Percy and Annabeth so bad. There weren't a lot of PERCYBETH moments in this book, because I feel their feelings for each other isn't solidified with something yet, but I can feel they're perfect for each other, nonetheless. One thing I would like to commend Riordan is how he didn't push for these two to be together right away. He is taking his time writing about these two character separately, then eventually, he'd bring them together. Am I right? Or am I right? For those who have read Heroes of Olympus, please tell me I'm right. 4. THE LABYRINTH WAS A CHARACTER IN ITSELF The way Rick Riordan depicted the Labyrinth is beyond me. I really liked how it branches to each part of the world, without you noticing it. It could seem like you're walking for an hour in the same line, but before you know it, you're coming out of the Labyrinth from the opposite side of the world from which you came in from. But that's not the only good part, the Labyrinth has sections that you'd not expect to be there. I'd love to get the chance to visit, given that'd be able to get out. 5. THE RISKS AND CONSEQUENCES I feel that, among all the other books I've read so far, this has got to be the one with the most risks and the dire consequences. While reading this, you get the feeling that it's prepping you for the events that soon to come on the last book, which I am currently reading, by the way. 6. DAEDALUS For those of you know their Greek Mythology, Daedalus, was a great inventor who made flying shoes for his son, Icarus, and also made the Labyrinth. At first, you'll start to wonder when you'll be meeting this mysterious person, but as the story goes along, you'll realize he was right under your nose all along, and that was a big plus for me. I did not expect him to be who he was. He has, indirectly, a very prominent role to this story. I liked how his character was used to this installment. 7. I MISS LUKE As much as I would like to hate this guy, I actually really missed him. He was there, but not really. 8. IT WAS FAST PACED AND FULL OF ADVENTURE It's one of the things I loved about this series, actually, but this book in particular, had the best quest and action (so far that is). FINAL THOUGHTS Overall, I thought this was a strong installment to the Percy Jackson series. I can't wait to finish the last one. I'm hoping it would \"wow\" me better than this one. I really want to know what happens to Percy, Annabeth, and everyone in the camp, and also, how it would transition to the Heroes of Olympus series. ...more Boy, did I enjoy this book. I have yet to read The Last Olympian, but I'm pretty sure this one is best one in the series. <333 CAN I JUST SAY THAT I HAVE WARMED UP TO ABSOLUTELY LOVE THESE BOOKS?!! I started rather dubious with 3-star ratings, but they've quickly climbed to 4. I'm sucked in. I'm a worm on a hook. Just staaahp everything and let me keep reading. (I literally read 3 books in one week.) Although they still haven't quite hit the pinnacle of \"absolute awesome\" for me. Maybe the last book?! omg! I'm nearly finished this first series! So I loved the plot of this one a lot more. It felt more varied. It's still t CAN I JUST SAY THAT I HAVE WARMED UP TO ABSOLUTELY LOVE THESE BOOKS?!! I started rather dubious with 3-star ratings, but they've quickly climbed to 4. I'm sucked in. I'm a worm on a hook. Just staaahp everything and let me keep reading. (I literally read 3 books in one week.) Although they still haven't quite hit the pinnacle of \"absolute awesome\" for me. Maybe the last book?! omg! I'm nearly finished this first series! So I loved the plot of this one a lot more. It felt more varied. It's still the same structure (starts at school, burns school, goes to camp Half Blood, goes on quest, ends at Camp Half Blood, goes back to school) but the action was more varied and not just battling. Which I enjoyed. And MORE ANNABETH! I seriously missed her when she got kidnapped in the last book. Although Percy is hopelessly clueless and it's getting kind of ridiculous. ALTHOUGH. He is a boy. And a teenager. It's still mildly adorable (and not too frustrating) that he doesn't see Annabeth likes him. i'm very worried he'll flirt accidentally with Rachel Dare and then Annabeth will never speak to him again. THIS CANNOT HAPPEN. I SHIP PERCABETH, DUH. Also Nico. Can we just talk about how cute he is in a black shirt and leather sort of hellish way? I love Nico although I do kind of think the SOLE purpose of Bianca's death was to drive Nico into being semi-evillish. And I cry a little because there were SO many opportunities for Percy to say \"yes, Nico, we can be friends\" and he NEVER DID. And in the end (view spoiler) [ Nico just leaves Camp Half Blood really thinking he has no friends. I mean, it wasn't sad, and the very last page is him returning to talk to Percy...but I would've loved it if Percy had just kiiiind of dropped hints that he wanted to be friends. *sigh* (hide spoiler) ] As always the way the Greek myths are modernised are THE BEST. I really love it when I recognise a myth! (I knew the minatour story!) And at the same time, I love the twists. Like the part where Annabeth has to crack riddles to get across a part of the maze and she decides the questions are too easy and insult her intelligence. I seriously love Annabeth. I really don't have much to say in this review...(the books are starting to merge in my head) just I liked this book the best! The ending was perfection and and and.... I cannot wait for the finale. *whispers* But also about Luke: (view spoiler) [ I am so impressed that the twist was that Kronos is now in Luke's body. THAT IS EPIC. And scary. And I like that Annabeth still likes Luke a little. I think it makes Luke into a more relatable villain. And they dropped so many hints that Kronos is really controlling Luke that I've started to wonder how much has even BEEN Luke in these last few books. Yes, yes, stop judging me. I always like the villainous boys. (hide spoiler) ] ...more WOW. This series is getting so intense and I can't wait to see how the final book plays out! Although I enjoyed this book, it was a little repetitive at times and my interest wavered. However, I will definitely be picking up the last book soon! MY MOST FAVORITE SO FAR. I AM DECEASED. After the third book, a part of me lost interest. But as I have come this far, I knew I would continue and finish the series. <+++>The Battle of the Labyrinth</+++> regained some of the magic Curse of Titan lost, but not all of it. The idea of a labyrinth/maze in a fantasy books automatically raises my interest, and therefore, I had high expectations for this. Percy, who is now fourteen, is to go on an adventure to find the long lost Pan. Instead of having two companions, Annabeth chooses three, a daring mo After the third book, a part of me lost interest. But as I have come this far, I knew I would continue and finish the series. <+++>The Battle of the Labyrinth</+++> regained some of the magic Curse of Titan lost, but not all of it. The idea of a labyrinth/maze in a fantasy books automatically raises my interest, and therefore, I had high expectations for this. Percy, who is now fourteen, is to go on an adventure to find the long lost Pan. Instead of having two companions, Annabeth chooses three, a daring move. Nico, who serves as the misunderstood character, came out a whiny and had significantly changed since the third book. His determination to see his dead sister was annoying, and overall his presence was not needed. Well, until the last chapter, that is. In there, I found Nico to be redeemed and I felt sympathy for him. Annabeth... I still don't like her. As she is supposed to be the badass-female character, I find her annoying and unintentionally rude. Perhaps, she is trying to look like she has her shit together, but her ignorance makes me want to put a curse on her. The best part: she is Athena's daughter, therefore, she has to be the 'wisest' of them, but her pride overpowers her intelligence. Cockiness is never attractive, Annabeth. Thankfully, the love interest part of her character is taking the attention away from the plot, which it does in so many young adult and fantasy books. My favorite character was Daedalus, due to his complicated and mysterious background. It was not until the end, where I was pleasantly surprised, though I did assume 'Quintus' had a connection with him. Overall, I found this book to be better than its preceder, and I'm excited to finish the series. After that, I would like to continue the Greek Mythology themes series by Rick Riordan, as I truly enjoy his narrative despite being written in a simple and easy manner. ...more I can't tell whether this is my favorite of the existing Percy Jackson stories. After a while, it has become just a story that I must read because it's in the series and there is no way that I can stop now! But it is definitely highly entertaining and I especially appreciate the fact that Riordan manages to make the young characters grow up convincingly as modern teens. I have a fascination with mazes and labyrinths so anything with this setting tends to make me happy, although I did not quite \" I can't tell whether this is my favorite of the existing Percy Jackson stories. After a while, it has become just a story that I must read because it's in the series and there is no way that I can stop now! But it is definitely highly entertaining and I especially appreciate the fact that Riordan manages to make the young characters grow up convincingly as modern teens. I have a fascination with mazes and labyrinths so anything with this setting tends to make me happy, although I did not quite \"feel\" the labyrinth setting in this one since the entries and exits and twists and turns are all so disconnected. It did not quite have a \"maze\" feeling, unlike that in The Silver Chair or in The Tomb of Atuan. This is just Riordan's convenient way to \"teleport\" his characters to different parts of the world. Things are definitely magically convenient, but that is part of the charm of this series. One just knows that things will work out for the heroes. I wonder if Riordan will \"pull a Rowling\" in book five and have one of the main/major supporting characters die? Oh, and I just realized that Thalia is not in the book and was only mentioned once or twice in passing.. what's going on THERE? Nico is a good character and the plot surrounding him has not been as predictable. I liked that. The story arc concerning Kronos' reincarnation is getting taut and tension is high and I hope there will be a huge pay off in either the next volume or the volume after that. But, I'm hoping that he does not drag the series on too long. Make it work, Riordan! ...more These books are so great. I can't wait to see how everything unfolds and then start the Heroes of Olympus! Ay, no quiero acabar la saga. Well, now I've read this for the third time\u2013\u2013and it was still fantastic, of course. This one has always been one of my favorites (I'm not sure whether this one or the fifth one is my favorite, so I guess I'll consider them tied). Part of what I love about it is that the old gang is back together (Percy, Annabeth, and Grover that is) so it's more reminiscent of the first book. And Tyson and Rachel are awesome, too. I also love that Annabeth leads the quest in this one (about time, pfft) because sh Well, now I've read this for the third time\u2013\u2013and it was still fantastic, of course. This one has always been one of my favorites (I'm not sure whether this one or the fifth one is my favorite, so I guess I'll consider them tied). Part of what I love about it is that the old gang is back together (Percy, Annabeth, and Grover that is) so it's more reminiscent of the first book. And Tyson and Rachel are awesome, too. I also love that Annabeth leads the quest in this one (about time, pfft) because she's my favorite. Plus she goes through so much crap in this one and ahhh my poor baby. (view spoiler) [LUUUKE. D: It just breaks my heart when he gets taken over by Kronos and Annabeth is so devastated about it\u2013\u2013and then she's obviously trying to keep a brave face about it but uggh it's so sad. Their relationship is one of my favorite things about the series, really\u2013\u2013it's just like so tragic and dark and interesting and AHHH I can't handle it. Percy never seems very understanding about it which makes him seem like kind of an asshole at times ... I get why he's so bitter about it, seeing as Luke keeps trying to kill him, he didn't know Luke well before he turned evil, and of course he's jealous of how well Luke and Annabeth know each other and so forth. But still. :P (hide spoiler) ] Also, the Percabeth in this one. *Screams* My OTP. Well anyway, on to the fifth book. :) ---------- My old/terrible \"reviews\" of this book: *Just finished re-reading it! I love these books. :] So much. And the last two especially are wicked intense. Hehe. *original review: AMAZING!!! I LOVED IT!!! I'm always glad to see a series that can keep itself going without the author running out of ideas. Like the three books that come before it, The Battle of the Labyrinth is exciting, funny, and overall very enjoyable. I also love its strong characters. Fans of the series will NOT be disappointed :D ...more At first I was going to rate it 4.5 stars, but that ending made me smile so much and I think that was what I've been looking for in this saga. I wanted a PJO book to end leaving me with a warm feeling in my heart and I didn't get it until this book <3. I love Nico so much. Also, I really like Poseidon :'). So 5 stars! \u201cPeople are more difficult to work with than machines. And when you break a person, he can't be fixed.\u201d This is just so fun and I love how this one takes more dramatic turns than the previews novel. This book is an introduction to how dangerous it really is and we come to think of them not only as adventures and as heroes but as people who can die just as easily as a human being. They are mortal, our heroes, not immortal. Like I said, this series just gets more and mature and I think I love this \u201cPeople are more difficult to work with than machines. And when you break a person, he can't be fixed.\u201d This is just so fun and I love how this one takes more dramatic turns than the previews novel. This book is an introduction to how dangerous it really is and we come to think of them not only as adventures and as heroes but as people who can die just as easily as a human being. They are mortal, our heroes, not immortal. Like I said, this series just gets more and mature and I think I love this more than if it had stayed like the first two novels. We get deeper into our characters feelings and realize how scared they really are, how they don't know what to await. It all becomes so complicated and realize that they'd sacrifice themselves for each other. That's the kind of friendship there is between our heroes. For Aphrodite's sake, Annabeth just grab and kiss Percy because he really is blind when it comes to you. How can he not see that you love him just as much as he does? Kids. Hahah, I love how their relationship reaches into a more subatomic level, they are friends who have romantically feelings for each other which is so cute and I just want to make them kiss. Am I making any sense? I hope so. Like I said, this gets more dramatic. This one was the most dramatic yet, but still it didn't lose it's funny edge and our heroes kept it at balance without making me cry my eyes out the entire time. Summing it up: it's still just as fun as it was, but it's far more mature. ...more Poseidon,\u2019 I said. Then I whispered, \u2018Help me with Nico, and Luke, and Grover\u2019s problem \u2026 Problems...problems...problems everywhere. \u25b6 Nico hates Percy and blames him for his sister's death. Would he pose a new problem? \u25b6 Grover is about to be exiled by the council of elders because he hasn't found the god Pan. \u25b6 Luke remains forever the faithful antagonist, who doesn't relent in his vengeful schemes and plans to bring back Kronos, the Titan lord, bring down Olympus and end the reign of gods. \u25b6 Ann Poseidon,\u2019 I said. Then I whispered, \u2018Help me with Nico, and Luke, and Grover\u2019s problem \u2026 Problems...problems...problems everywhere. \u25b6 Nico hates Percy and blames him for his sister's death. Would he pose a new problem? \u25b6 Grover is about to be exiled by the council of elders because he hasn't found the god Pan. \u25b6 Luke remains forever the faithful antagonist, who doesn't relent in his vengeful schemes and plans to bring back Kronos, the Titan lord, bring down Olympus and end the reign of gods. \u25b6 Annabeth is still trying to come to terms with the fact that NOT EVERYONE CAN BE SAVED. Let go honey. Luke is not worth it. \u25b6 The old gods are stirring, to whom would they pledge allegiance? And what about the minor gods? \u25b6 And wee...it's about time Percy's hormones started raging. Uh. Not. All these sum up to the need for a quest (of course) which leads Percy, Grover, Annabeth, and my baby Tyson into Daelalus's labyrinth in search of god pan and answers concerning Luke's new scheme. And of course we get our usual dose of adventure and infusion of new characters. My thoughts I never thought I'd be the one to wish an 11year old kid dead, no matter how steadfast they were in the their path, on the wrong side of the road. But I did, I kept wishing Nico(and Luke) would just die already at the beginning of the story. You know how the question of salvation for the lost is always a touchy one, a very hard subject to explore indeed. How far off the deep end does someone have to go before you deem them unredeemable? How broken and lost do they have to be before you finally say to yourself, \" I can't do it anymore. You're gone. I give up\". This is just a children's book series but the topic keeps popping up as an underlying theme; First with Luke (Percy's antagonist), and for a while with Nico. And I just love how the story impresses the importance of family and friendship too. That's probably what I love most about this series. Well that and the adventurous air about it Annabeth annoyed me so much, she became so bitchy really unpleasant in this book. What an appropriate response to the change in dynamic between you and Percy! *Clapping like a giddy child* Bravo Annabeth. UGHH JUST STOP The books prior to this, I received as gleeful entertainment, it was all games and fun. I'm pretty sobered up now. The war is finally at the heroes' doorsteps, this book is the final step towards the doom prophesied to take place in the last installment of the series(when Percy turns 16). One last book before the end of the series. I just wish it wouldn't end yet. I've really come to love this series, the characters, their world, and the foundation it's built on;Greek mythology. I really appreciate everything this series offers. It's amazing how imparting books are even when they don't mean to be. If there's one thing I've learned about books it's; Children's books, young adult books, adult books --never discriminate, you can never tell what's waiting on the inside. ...more The Battle of the Labyrinth is the fourth of Rick Riordan\u2019s Percy Jackson and the Olympians series, following after The Lightning Thief , The Sea of Monsters , and The Titan's Curse . For those readers who have been off the grid for years, Percy Jackson is the half-mortal son of Poseidon, Greek God of the Sea, who has been training at Camp Half-Blood for years to confront the ominous Kronos and his Titans; a group of divine beings determined to avenge their ancient defeat and destroy the Olympian g The Battle of the Labyrinth is the fourth of Rick Riordan\u2019s Percy Jackson and the Olympians series, following after The Lightning Thief , The Sea of Monsters , and The Titan's Curse . For those readers who have been off the grid for years, Percy Jackson is the half-mortal son of Poseidon, Greek God of the Sea, who has been training at Camp Half-Blood for years to confront the ominous Kronos and his Titans; a group of divine beings determined to avenge their ancient defeat and destroy the Olympian gods. Like several books in the series, this one begins with Seaweed Brain (a.k.a. Percy) attending yet another new school; one that he is determined he will not get kicked out of. Unfortunately, for all his good intentions, Percy seems to attract trouble, and so as soon as he enters the doors of the establishment, monsters (This time cute, peppy and man-eating cheerleader variety) attack him. After a fight, the accidental burning of a school classroom, and the reintroduction of a mortal girl named Rachel Elizabeth Dare, who just happens to have the ability to see through the Mist (You know, the divine cloud that hides gods and monsters from mortal perception), Percy decides to head back to Camp Half-Blood. I mean, it has to be safer than regular school, right? Once there, Percy finds that it isn\u2019t, because there are issues looming large in the land of demigods, satyrs and nymphs. Grover, the satyr with the most, is an emotional wreck, because his dream of finding the lost god Pan might be taken away from him. Annabeth, daughter of Athena and Percy\u2019s best friends who is a girl, seems to be extremely irritated with him and acting oddly. And then there is <---C>Nico di Angelo</---C>, the more than a little emo son of Hades, who is out and about in the underworld trying to resurrect his dead sister in exchange for another, living soul \u2013 preferably Percy\u2019s. And guess what? Those are the not so bad things going on at camp, because the danger of Kronos is almost overwhelming, as it has become obvious that his followers are planning to attack Camp Half-Blood! So what do you do if you are a bunch of teenage demigods waiting around for an all-powerful being to attack you camp? What else: you go on an epic quest. So like old times, Annabeth is assigned a quest (This time a trip through the perilous and ever-changing Labyrinth of Daedalus) with her best buds Percy, Grover and Percy's Cyclops half-brother, Tyson, tagging along. The fun, fights, growing up and general adventures follow thereafter. Without a doubt, The Battle of the Labrinyth is Percy Jackson\u2019s most action-packed book yet, filled with monsters, gods, demigods, and battles. It succeeds in being fun as well as poignant with real danger, real horror, and real death entering the lives of our teenage heroes. But more than that, it does a great job of building up excitement for the next book, never letting a reader forget that in The Last Olympian the final battle of the gods will occur and \u2013 according to a prophecy \u2013 either Percy or Nico di Angelo will make a decision that either destroys or saves Olympus! ...more Let me tell you something first: This book is better than the previous one. But I'm not going to rate it 5 stars. None of these books (so far) deserve them. I just got stubborn with book 3 and forgave many things. This will not happen again. You see, I'm starting to get really annoyed by the fact that they're all the same ... with some minimal changes. I hate formulaic books, okay? I feel as if I'm being cheated - as if the author is only using me to get money - so the fact that all these damned boo Let me tell you something first: This book is better than the previous one. But I'm not going to rate it 5 stars. None of these books (so far) deserve them. I just got stubborn with book 3 and forgave many things. This will not happen again. You see, I'm starting to get really annoyed by the fact that they're all the same ... with some minimal changes. I hate formulaic books, okay? I feel as if I'm being cheated - as if the author is only using me to get money - so the fact that all these damned books follow the same formula annoys me a lot, no matter how entertaining they are. And we have to add also the amount of Deus Ex Machinas used. Rick Riordan has surpassed the limits of my patience with them. They are just too many! However, when I said this was better than book 3, I meant it. The plot is more entertaining and less predictable (although some of the twists were painfully obvious), the characters are just as fantastic, and it was so much fun. I have one problem regarding the characters, though, and that is they don't seem to age a day. I'm not talking about Chiron or any of the gods - it's mainly Percy. He feels the same boy he was in book 1. I'm not saying I want big changes, but I suppose facing death several times in two years must gradually shape you into a different person, and not to mention the fact that now he is almost 15 years old... and yet he still sounds like a 12-year-old. Nonetheless, I forgave this small bug because of a line he said almost at the end: That\u2019s when I ran. There wasn\u2019t even any thought to it. No debate in my mind about\u2014gee, should I stand up to him and try to fight again? Nope, I simply ran. How awesome is it the fact that he doesn't play the brave hero and just embraces the fact that he's afraid? It's so rare to see that. I loved it! Also, can I just slap some sense to Annabeth? Sure, she's Athena's daughter, but Christ, stop being \"territorial\" (as Chiron said) about your friends! Percy can talk to all the girls he wants! He's not your property! Jeez. Compared to book 3's ending, this felt more weak in my opinion because of the Deus Ex Machina used ( (view spoiler) [Grover's panic scream (hide spoiler) ] ), but that didn't prevent me from wanting to pick the last book ASAP. I'm nervous about picking it up since it's the last, but I'm so curious as to how this will end. Off to book 5! ...more Already I can't wait to start reading The Last Olympian, just have to wait for nine other people to read it first at the library. That's no time at all right? I'm trying to reassure myself. This is my favorite of the series so far. It was slightly less funny in this ones but its totally made up for by all the action and gods and characters. I mean gosh, there are a lot more gods, monsters, and heroes than I gave mythology credit for. We see Percy come out and act like a real true blue hero thoug Already I can't wait to start reading The Last Olympian, just have to wait for nine other people to read it first at the library. That's no time at all right? I'm trying to reassure myself. This is my favorite of the series so far. It was slightly less funny in this ones but its totally made up for by all the action and gods and characters. I mean gosh, there are a lot more gods, monsters, and heroes than I gave mythology credit for. We see Percy come out and act like a real true blue hero though he hasn't changed much more than the fact that he can kick some serious monster butt. Annabeth is in charge and she proves to have some things she is holding back on, I'm pretty sure I know what but I won't say here just in case it isn't as obvious to everyone. Grover is as lovable as ever though with a little more knowhow. Tyson makes a reappearance and I certainly missed him. And us mortals play a role in accomplishing the mission. Yeah! I realize that this review probably isn't very helpful but really I loved the book. That's about it. ...more This is by far my favourite book out of the series! The characters have evolved so beautifully and the book moves along at breakneck speed the whole way through and the combination of those two things makes this book exceptional! I loved all the twists and turns along the way and was genuinely surprised by them. That element of surprise is key in my enjoyment of this series, it just keeps me guessing and I love it! This series has quickly become a favourite of mine and I'm almost sad to be finis This is by far my favourite book out of the series! The characters have evolved so beautifully and the book moves along at breakneck speed the whole way through and the combination of those two things makes this book exceptional! I loved all the twists and turns along the way and was genuinely surprised by them. That element of surprise is key in my enjoyment of this series, it just keeps me guessing and I love it! This series has quickly become a favourite of mine and I'm almost sad to be finished this book as it means the series is nearly at an end and I don't want it to be over! ...more 4.5 My favourite of the series so far!!!!! Mi favorito de la saga hasta ahora!!", "Title": "The Battle of the Labyrinth"},
