{"Comments": "Ahh so good! Rick does it again! I enjoyed this so much! Though I will admit that I didn't enjoy it as much as book one. Percy is such a fun narrator and I'm excited to continue following his journey. A guy in Greek armor drew his sword and charged, but slipped in a puddle of pina colada. Really, who can not love a book with lines like that? I actually had the urge take this book in my hand with a strong grip and whirl it towards my head for waiting so long to read this series. I just kept putting it off for some reason or other.<---F> Luckily I came to my senses</---F>. For the most part things have been pretty quiet this school year and Percy even makes a new friend named Tyson, a giant of a kid. Well, A guy in Greek armor drew his sword and charged, but slipped in a puddle of pina colada. Really, who can not love a book with lines like that? I actually had the urge take this book in my hand with a strong grip and whirl it towards my head for waiting so long to read this series. I just kept putting it off for some reason or other. Luckily I came to my senses. For the most part things have been pretty quiet this school year and Percy even makes a new friend named Tyson, a giant of a kid. Well, this is the <---C>Percy Jackson</---C> series and things don't stay quiet for long. Monsters come in and attack the gym during a game of dodgeball and chaos ensues, and Percy learns that something terribly wrong has happened. The tree that signifies Thalia's sacrifice has been poisoned and Camp Half-Blood is no longer safe. Riordan has made quite a world here, but that's not the only thing you need to get a good story. Characters are SO important and he doesn't forget that. All of them are typically well drawn out. After finishing this one I feel like I know Percy and Annabeth a little better than I did before. We get to see some new characters, Tyson being my favorite and new powers and awesome mythological information. What really impresses me is that it can be funny, witty, informational, believable, smart, suspenseful at the same time without the reader losing the sense of adventure and how much heart all the characters have. What's so cool is that the action never seems to slow down, the action star in me is thoroughly satisfied. The ending is setup well for the next book, and just shows how tricky our villain is. I actually wish I could write a longer very concise and intelligent review about this book (<---B>maybe I couldn't accomplish that</---B>) but I don't want to give anything away, and really the book can stand on it's own without my help. Most people have read them all by now so this message is for you stragglers who waited so long like myself: GO AND READ IT! I doubt you'll regret it. Added later: Guess what? They decided to go ahead and make a movie based off the second book. The trailer looks promising guys! ...more AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME! This series is SPECTACULAR so far! Loving it immensely. BOOK THREE NOW PLEASE. I need to take Tyson,<---M> wrap a blanket around him</---M>, give him a stuffed Rainbow and protect him from everything. I don't get it. I just don't really like this series. My two kids would argue to the death with me about them, and I don't know why I don't like them, I just...don't. Maybe I don't like ancient Greeks mixing with 21st-century Americans. Maybe it's Annabeth's recurring refrain of \"oh my gods\" that drives me insane, or maybe it's the fact that you can't turn 3 pages without Percy being in mortal peril. (Too much adventure is bad for the heart.) Maybe I can't buy into so many perfectly-timed rescue I don't get it. I just don't really like this series. My two kids would argue to the death with me about them, and I don't know why I don't like them, I just...don't. Maybe I don't like ancient Greeks mixing with 21st-century Americans. Maybe it's Annabeth's recurring refrain of \"oh my gods\" that drives me insane, or maybe it's the fact that you can't turn 3 pages without Percy being in mortal peril. (Too much adventure is bad for the heart.) Maybe I can't buy into so many perfectly-timed rescues-from-nowhere when Percy is just about to bite the big one, or the way Percy goes into every new situation thinking, \"maybe I shouldn't do this,\" but does it anyway and it's ALWAYS a trap by some monster. ALWAYS. A-L-W-A-Y-S. I know he's just an 8th grader, but golly gee Perce, wake up and smell the Cyclops Spit. Anytime you meet a new person, trust me, you should just turn and run. But you never do. I'm just not interested. I don't care how he gets out of the next life-threatening situation. Just get out of it and let's move on to the next life-threatening situation, already. With The Lightning Thief I thought maybe it was the audiobook's narrator that made me not enjoy it much, but I read this one myself, and I still just wasn't into it. I just wanted it to be over. That's not to say that I don't like <---A>Rick Riordan</---A>, because I like him fine. Total contradiction, I know, but it's true. And because not every book is every person's cup o' tea, I'll keep recommending this series to kids, because they think it's awesome. And that's good with me. ...more This book was a bit of a letdown for me after The Lightning Thief. It was slow to start , especially considering this is the second book in a series and much of the foundation is already laid for us. There were monster battles early on, but it took a long time to focus in on the major issue in the story, and then another long spell before our heroes set out on their quest. I wouldn't have minded as much if there had been more to hold my attention in that first part of the book. There were neat id This book was a bit of a letdown for me after The Lightning Thief. It was slow to start , especially considering this is the second book in a series and much of the foundation is already laid for us. There were monster battles early on, but it took a long time to focus in on the major issue in the story, and then another long spell before our heroes set out on their quest. I wouldn't have minded as much if there had been more to hold my attention in that first part of the book. There were neat ideas to be sure, but they weren't as robust as I think they could have been. A couple parts similarly dragged once they set out on their quest, but overall it did pick up, after all. For me, Riordan is at his best when he's incorporating Greek mythology on the modern world. A mythical sea full of monsters through which all heroes venture during their quests, where impossible things happen, and from which there's a good chance people won't return? Where else in our world but the Bermuda Triangle? The Grey Sisters's taxi service is brilliant. And I like when these motifs are illustrated down to the details , like the incongruous sight of modern party-animal-type centaurs teaching an adolescent cyclops how to use a giant paint gun. It's the outlandish made seemingly commonplace, and it's something I adore. However, I didn't feel there was quite as much of this in The Sea of Monsteres as in The Lightning Thief, sadly. I admire the way Percy grows during the book, especially in learning to accept and appreciate Tyson. Also, his dry humor and commentary continued to make me laugh in this second installment. I wish I had seen some of the other characters, like Annabeth and Clarisse , also grow during the course of the story. Mostly, they serve as foils and support for Percy's growth, and I think they deserve more. Yes, we get a glimpse of Annabeth's greatest desire, and she does get over her \"all Cyclopes are bad\" kick, but that transformation is stated rather than shown and developed; most attention spent on Annabeth is spent on her back story or her part in Percy's story. Annabeth is an intelligent and active female character, someone girls look to as a role model, and I wish the author had explored her more as a character. At least the end of the book was completely epic ; a classic cliff-hanger that made me jump right next to the third book. Regardless, my opinion is that <+++>The Sea of Monsters</+++> is an enjoyable read, but it didn't really resonate for me, and I think it could have been more. Interesting quotes that I didn't include in the review: \u201cDoes truth have a moral?\u201d ...more SO GOOD SO FUCKING GOOD. I NEED THE 3RD BOOK NOW. TITLE : <+++>The Sea of Monsters</+++> (Percy Jackson and the Olympians #2) AUTHOR : Rick Riordan PUBLISHER : Disney Hyperion Books PUBLICATION DATE: 2014 GENRE : Middle Grade, Mythology, Adventure This series just keeps getting better and better! Like the first book, I just had a fantastic time reading this book. I love being in the world of Percy Jackson. I love seeing how these Gods and Goddesses are in a contemporary fashion. I liked how everything that has been done in this series so far. I'm hoping to read th TITLE : The Sea of Monsters (Percy Jackson and the Olympians #2) AUTHOR : Rick Riordan PUBLISHER : Disney Hyperion Books PUBLICATION DATE: 2014 GENRE : Middle Grade, Mythology, Adventure This series just keeps getting better and better! Like the first book, I just had a fantastic time reading this book. I love being in the world of Percy Jackson. I love seeing how these Gods and Goddesses are in a contemporary fashion. I liked how everything that has been done in this series so far. I'm hoping to read the rest of the series soon! Anyways, let's start the reviewing shall we? THE GIST Percy had an uneventful year (finally). For the first time in my life, I'd almost made it an entire year without getting expelled. No weird accidents. No fights in the classroom. No teachers turning into monsters and trying to kill me with poisoned cafeteria food or exploding homework. It was almost the end of the school year and he's relieved that none of the \"accidents\" he always had every year. Seemed the Greek Gods were giving Percy a break this year. At least, that's what he thought. Percy and Tyson were at gym class when the crazy began happening. Again. All around Matt Sloan, the visitors were growing in size. They were no longer kids. They were eight-foot-tall giants with wild eyes, pointy teeth, and hairy arms tattooed with snakes and hula women and Valentine hearts. So no. The Gods hasn't forgotten about Percy and someone was indeed still out to get him. These creatures called the... eehhh.. something that starts with a letter L (Laistrygonians... there you g) want to eat him. Because he didn't want his classmates or himself to be eaten, he tried to fight them off. Then, out of nowhere, Annabeth came. Standing in the smoke was my friend Annabeth. Her face was grimy and scratched. She had a ragged backpack slung over her shoulder, her baseball cap tucked in her pocket, a bronze knife in her hand, and a wild look on her storm-gray eyes, like she's been chased a thousand miles by ghosts. After escaping the huge giant bullies at the school, Annabeth, Percy, and Tyson rode the cab of doom to get to Camp Half-Blood. It will be literally your doom if those three lady drivers lose their eye. Ahaha. Not kidding. After surviving the taxi ride, they arrived at camp and found it being attacked by those big, crazy bulls. The place was supposed to be warded by the tree. I won't mention much about it, but the tree that protected the camp\u00a0has been poisoned. So anyone who isn't a Half-Blood can now cross the borders which is a big problem. None of the Half-Bloods are safe now. (Half-Bloods or Demigods as we all know them) Now it was up to Percy and Annabeth to not only find a cure for the poisoned tree, but also rescue Grover who has been asking to been visiting Percy's dreams basically telling him he needed saving. WHAT I LIKED: Freakin Percy Jackson! Can I say how much I adored this guy. And his narrative! So hilarious and honest. I liked how Rick Riordan made his character. He was special, but he wasn't perfect. I liked how the author handled his insecurity because you understand where it was coming from. It wasn't just a random, fleeting feeling. It was really something someone would feel when your own father seem to be playing favorite. Or at least that's how he thinks it was. Percy didn't pretend he was an overly nice person, because he wasn't. You'll see that wasnt such a nice guy, but he redeemed himself towards the end which was great. He was just a teenage demigod who feels, speaks, and listens like all normal teenager would which I think is one of the reasons why a lot of people read this. Aside from Percy, I love Annabeth . I love this girl so much! I know there isn't any romantic stuff between Annabeth and Percy (yet) but I ship them so bad you won't even believe it! So aside from shipping her and Percy together, I'd have to say I was thoroughly surprised by her character. For someone as young as her, she was responsible, tough, smart, and really kickass. The author didn't tell me how great she was but he showed me. I think that's one of the reasons why I loved Annabeth. The continuous flow of new Greek myth characters were so enjoyable. I am a big fan of mythology. Greek. Roman. Norse. You name it, I love it. Anyways, I was a bit iffy reading this because the author might not be able to give justice to the Greek gods, but this book did. It even exceeded it. Gaaah!!! No freakin \"I can't live without you\" bullshit on this book. There were a lot of cutesy moments between Anabeth and Percy. And when I say cute, it's just really cute. I ship them so hard!!! :) i dont care if there was no romance in this book. But I can feel something would chance. Hrhehe The cover! I mean the cover for the new editions. I didn't really like the older ones. The cover right there on top is the one I have and I absolutely love it The chapter titles were funny. There wasn't a lot of action on this book, but I felt that this book developed the characters a bit more. I saw more of Percy character than I did on the first book. I saw him as a son of a Poseidon and just a normal teenager who also feel jealous (hahahaha), scared, insecure and all the things that normal teenagers feel and I like that. It made his character more relatable and likable in my opinion The silent message about family and how you should never turn back on family. \"My dear young cousin, if there's one thing I've learned over the eons, it's that you can't give up on your family, no matter how tempting they make it.\" I liked how it preached that without being too obvious. But it wasn't just about family, \u00a0 \u00a0 there was also a bit about friendship. I really liked Hermes, Luke's dad! THINGS I DIDN'T LIKE: Grover. I'm not very fond of him in this book. I found Luke a weak villain on this book. I know he is not the main antagonist, but I don't see him fighting anything himself. He was a coward and someone who relies heavily on what he believe is right. He is a rebel because of\u00a0his issues with Daddy. I don't think his reason for doing what he is doing for the more evil guy is right. His motivations were a bit weak in my opinion. I wonder when we'll see the more evil guy? Would he be as devious and inhuman as Volemort? I wonder... FINAL WORDS: This series is easily becoming one of the series I would give priority in finishing. I loved every minute of Sea of Monsters. And according to my friend Cam, she loved the rest of the books too! I can't wait to get to the rest of the books. I'm going to be hopefully getting them during the Manila International Book Fair which is happening in a few weeks! Have you guys read the Percy Jackson series? What were your thoughts? :) Share them in the comments below! Talk to you guys soon! ...more Another 5* from Celyn. I read this book to her out of order, having read book 1 then book 3 before it. I hate it when people do that, but the books are pretty stand-alone and we picked the wrong one when leaving the house in a hurry. Actually I can now better appreciate the cross-book story and it's quite clever, so that's good. This volume continues the mix of Greek myth, modern America, and teenagers. Percy battles through various monsters in bloodless battles where the beasties turn to mist on Another 5* from Celyn. I read this book to her out of order, having read book 1 then book 3 before it. I hate it when people do that, but the books are pretty stand-alone and we picked the wrong one when leaving the house in a hurry. Actually I can now better appreciate the cross-book story and it's quite clever, so that's good. This volume continues the mix of Greek myth, modern America, and teenagers. Percy battles through various monsters in bloodless battles where the beasties turn to mist on their deaths and reform years later. We're introduced to his half-brother, a cyclops, and a quest is launched to thwart the dastardly plan to destroy Camp Half-Blood. Various famed nasties are encountered including (& here I'm not going to google the correct spelling) Lastrigonian giants, Stymphalian birds, Charybdis and Scylla, Circe, and Polyphemus. Hermes pops up too. It's all rowdy and fairly random fun raiding not only Greek myth but other periods of history to give us a Civil War gunboat and some famous pirates to boot. The twist is actually a clever one, neatly mirroring the villian's supposed victory with the heroes'. Solid YA entertainment. Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes ...more NOOOOOOO! OMG. WHY IS IT NIGHT TIME NOW? I NEED TO GET THE THIRD BOOK NOW. LIKE RIGHT THIS MOMENT NOW. Hold on...let me go check out the movie before I post my review. ...... I've finished watching the movie, and I just want to scream and cry for everything that got lost and twisted in translation in the movie adaptation. But I get it, movies shouldn't have to adapt a book with exactness. But I stick to my belief- books are almost always better than movies. It's like every movie's adapted from a bo NOOOOOOO! OMG. WHY IS IT NIGHT TIME NOW? I NEED TO GET THE THIRD BOOK NOW. LIKE RIGHT THIS MOMENT NOW. Hold on...let me go check out the movie before I post my review. ...... I've finished watching the movie, and I just want to scream and cry for everything that got lost and twisted in translation in the movie adaptation. But I get it, movies shouldn't have to adapt a book with exactness. But I stick to my belief- books are almost always better than movies. It's like every movie's adapted from a book. I can't even see a movie now without running in search of the possible book from which it was adapted. Today I saw the movie Jupiter Ascending and I just thought, \"This has got to be a book\". Next thing I know, I'm asking google for \"Jupiter Ascending the book\". But alas, it wasn't sooo...shame on me. Anyway... This installment was so sweet, it was like a set-up for a family reunion. And I loved it! Hermes shrugged. \u201cFamilies are messy. Immortal families are eternally messy. Sometimes the best we can do is to remind each other that we\u2019re related, for better or worse \u2026 and try to keep the maiming and killing to a minimum.\u201d Percy goes on another quest, this time in search of something that has the power to save Camp Half-blood which is now under attack due to a breakdown of it's protective barrier.  The thing he seeks lies somewhere in the sea of monsters(like the name isn't enough of a warning). And of course, we can expect the many obstacles and hurdles Percy and his companions meet along the way, as well as some sweet family bonding moments. My favorite novel character was Tyson . Gosh, is he the sweetest little- talk about proper irony - brother or what! He was just too adorable. I love him to bits and pieces, I got so warm and emotional while reading his lines. (view spoiler) [And oh, I couldn't help but notice how similar Hagrid's(Harry Potter) situation was to Chiron's. They both were accused of things they didn't do. Things that had fatal consequences on both of their establishments. Hagrid was accused of opening the door to the chamber of secrets in book 2 and Chiron was accused of poisoning Thalia's tree. I don't know, it just popped into my mind while I was reading! (hide spoiler) ] I have to say, this book was better than the first. I really appreciated the fact that the plot direction wasn't as predictable as the first book's, granted, the rest of the weaknesses of the first book followed into this story, like;Percy's ever-biting fallibility and tendency to fall fool and victim to every trap; safe in one page, in trouble in the following page, and conveniently saved in the next. I mean really, everything would be perfectly calm and cool, and my eyes would stray away from the pages of the book for one minute and next thing you know he's getting clubbed or pummeled or enchanted by some hideous creature. It gets really hectic. But I'm all for adventure, and in my book there can never be such a thing as enough or too much of adventure . This series I would say, thrives heavily on it, and that's great because that means we're tr\u00e8s compatible. I'm an adventure junkie. I thought I was going to end up giving this book a 4 star rating, but nahhhh. With that ending, it's just not possible for me. ...more Edit : My pupils will have to wait, because this one is not grabbing me at all :/ Honestly, I didn't intend to read this book so soon but my pupils were so passionate about The Lightning Thief that they begged me to study this one. Now, you should know that I have two rules : - I never pass up an opportunity for my pupils to read. - I never buy something for my class that I didn't read before. So... Here we go, Percy. I have to say this is my favorite book in the entire series. Wonderfully written and filled with new characters, The Sea of Monsters is a real page turner! Within the first three paragraphs, Riordan intordunces a funny new character: a friendly 8-year-old Cyclops named Tyson; son of Posiden! The magical girl-who-became-a-pine-tree, Thailia, has been poisoned. The magical boundary that protects Camp Half-Blood is weakening, and deadly monsters attempt to wound the demigod boarder patrols as much a I have to say this is my favorite book in the entire series. Wonderfully written and filled with new characters, The Sea of Monsters is a real page turner! Within the first three paragraphs, Riordan intordunces a funny new character: a friendly 8-year-old Cyclops named Tyson; son of Posiden! The magical girl-who-became-a-pine-tree, Thailia, has been poisoned. The magical boundary that protects Camp Half-Blood is weakening, and deadly monsters attempt to wound the demigod boarder patrols as much as they can. There is only one thing that can cure Thailia's Tree:the wonderfull healing Golden Fleece. Percy and his friend Annabeth desparatly need to go on this quest: the Fleece is located in the Sea of Monsters, also known as the Bermuda Triangle; only a child of Posiden could possibly suceed. But instead, the Orcle chooses Clarssie, a child of Ares! Percy quickly reveals another reason to go on the quest for the Fleece: he has been having dreams about his friend Grover the satyr, who went to go look for the god Pan, but got captured by a satyr-loving Cyclops...on an island in the Sea of Monsters. The almost-blind Cyclops thinks Grover is a girl and is going to marry him! Now Percy, his half-brother Tyson, and Annabeth must sneak away from camp to rescue Grover from a dreadful marriage, and insure the Clarssie doesn't get eaten by man-eating sheep. I really liked this book because it was the most creative of all the series. Traveling to the Sea of Monsters, Percy and his friends face thousands of challanges of involving strength of mind and body. I thought this book was wonderful! Riordan has successfully woven a wonderful tale of danger, betrayal, humor and myth into a fantastic book. ...more Fucking amazing... This book was so much fun to read. I think I liked this one even better than the first one. Carta enviada el 19 de Agosto de 2013 De: Nina Rapsodia Mi habitaci\u00f3n con ventana Colombia. Para: Rick Riordan Campamento mestizo Long Island, USA. Primero que nada quer\u00eda saludarle. Hola se\u00f1or Riordan. Le escribo desde un pa\u00eds de latinoam\u00e9r\u00edca llamado Colombia. Ese pa\u00eds del que las pel\u00edculas de su pa\u00eds se empe\u00f1an en asegurar que s\u00f3lo tenemos narcotraficantes. Quiero que sepa que usted por aqu\u00ed es harto conocido. Realmente no puedo decirle si aqu\u00ed sus libros se venden como churros, no estoy segura, per Carta enviada el 19 de Agosto de 2013 De: Nina Rapsodia Mi habitaci\u00f3n con ventana Colombia. Para: Rick Riordan Campamento mestizo Long Island, USA. Primero que nada quer\u00eda saludarle. Hola se\u00f1or Riordan. Le escribo desde un pa\u00eds de latinoam\u00e9r\u00edca llamado Colombia. Ese pa\u00eds del que las pel\u00edculas de su pa\u00eds se empe\u00f1an en asegurar que s\u00f3lo tenemos narcotraficantes. Quiero que sepa que usted por aqu\u00ed es harto conocido. Realmente no puedo decirle si aqu\u00ed sus libros se venden como churros, no estoy segura, pero apenas va a salir la adaptaci\u00f3n al cine de uno de sus libros los ejemplares se agotan m\u00e1gicamente en las librer\u00edas. En lo conveniente a mi, si usted supiera que desde hace m\u00e1s de un a\u00f1o, cuando le\u00ed la primera parte de su saga de Percy Jackson, sent\u00ed una ligera perturbaci\u00f3n en la fuerza. En otras palabras, me encant\u00f3. Y primero d\u00e9jeme disculparme por ser tan mala lectora por haber permitido que pasara tanto tiempo para comprar la segunda parte de su pentalog\u00eda de los dioses del Olimpo. Cr\u00e9ame no lo he hecho con la menor intenci\u00f3n de faltar a mis gustos personales. Debe haber sido porque despu\u00e9s de que le\u00ed su excelente libro ten\u00eda la moral muy alta, y luego se me fue el alma a los pies cuando me top\u00e9 con La Esp\u00e9rpentica Pel\u00edcula (que lo pongo en letras may\u00fasculas para mostrar mi enfado) aunque se que usted no tiene nada que ver cuando con las ideas geniales de su libro se hagan desastres en Hollywood. La adaptaci\u00f3n fue tan mala que tuve que rociarme mis ojos con agua bendita durante d\u00edas para olvidar el horror de mis ojos. Prefiero relegarle la alegr\u00eda a la imaginaci\u00f3n. Volviendo al tema que me ata\u00f1e quer\u00eda expresarle mis m\u00e1s sinceras felicitaciones por haber mantenido el list\u00f3n tan alto en la segunda parte de la saga. El mar de los monstruos me parece un libro que a pesar de lo corto que es (para mi desgracia) paga con creces el dinero que cuesta (que a mi parecer es bastante econ\u00f3mico, para tama\u00f1as horas de entretenimiento que me ha dado). Realmente pag\u00f3 la espera de m\u00e1s de un a\u00f1o luego de la lectura del primero. Voy a ahorrarme largas y aburridas descripciones sobre lo que me ha parecido la historia como tal, porque usted lo tiene muy sabido ya. \u00bfPor donde empiezo a mencionar las grandes alegr\u00edas que me trajo esta secuela? Lo primero que hay que decir es que sus palabras desbordan una creatividad que siempre me deja ojopl\u00e1tica y sin aliento. En este libro he visto una nueva gran aventura de Percy sus amigos que siempre me sacan una sonrisa y me hacen morderme las u\u00f1as hasta el infinito. Segundo, los personajes. Si Percy ya me cay\u00f3 bien en este libro, en este libro acaba de reafirmarse como un buen protagonista que mantiene el sentido del humor hasta en los peores momentos. El no es un h\u00e9roe solitario, siempre necesita de sus amigos para lograr salir airoso. Y tercero, el humor que usted le impregna al relato. Las situaciones tan divertidas en este libro me han hecho morir de risa varias veces y eso no lo logran muchas personas conmigo. Tres minipuntos para usted. Y es que en tas pocas paginas me sumerjo rapid\u00edsimo en los acontecimientos. No me da usted descanso entre una cosa y otra. Y realmente me entretiene much\u00edsimo. Cuando yo cre\u00eda que ya la cosa ir\u00eda con calma usted vuelve y me sorprende. Y luego est\u00e1 el final. Le adjunto una imagen de mi expresi\u00f3n a este punto de la historia: Entonces quiero concluir esta misiva dici\u00e9ndole una gran verdad. Se\u00f1or Riordan, soy su fangirl. Pero no se preocupe que no le pondr\u00e9 c\u00e1maras a su casa ni lo acosar\u00e9 por las redes sociales. Los millones que usted debe ganar por sus libros est\u00e1n m\u00e1s que merecidos. Nada de ganar dinero por libros malos. Espero de verdad de coraz\u00f3n que siga ejercitando su pluma (o las teclas) y siga trayendo buenas historias para todos los campistas semidioses del mundo real, aka su gran y nutrido fandom. Para despedirme, h\u00e1game un favor muy grande y env\u00edele este regalo a los encargados de hacer las pel\u00edculas: Eso es todo. Es para mi un gusto escribirle a usted. Con todo mi fangirlgenico coraz\u00f3n, Nina Rapsodia. PD: Ser\u00eda muy amable si me consiguiera usted un cupo en la caba\u00f1a de Hermes. No me molesta dormir en una encimera. Rese\u00f1a en el blog: http://rapsodia-literaria.blogspot.co... ...more Percy Jackson, Sea of Monsters This book was full of epicness, just like the first one. At this point, I don't think Rick Riordan can do any wrong. It was action packed, so fun, and full of snark. Absolutely love the characters, and just everything Rick puts into these books. Such a refreshing and exciting read. Can't wait to read The Titans Curse :) 3.5 stars. I think I would've liked this series a lot more when I was younger, but I still love pretty much any YA retelling of Greek mythology! I liked the first book in this series more, though... I don't know what the plural of cyclops is, but they all really irritated me here. I wasn't a huge fan of this movie either, so maybe that was in my head while I was reading. But I do like Percy & Annabeth so I'll check out the third book! My blog | Tumblr | Twitter | Instagram OMGAD, THIS IS CRAZY. WHEN U THINK THINGS R GOING WELL, YOU GET PUNCHED IN THE FACE WITH MORE PROBLEMS. \"I am Thalia,\" the girl said. \"Daughter of Zeus.\" DEAD So there's that. I've heard everyone saying this is the best book out of the whole series and even though I haven't read most of them yet, I got 'this will be my favorite' vibes while reading Sea of Monsters . Anyways, new characters, yay to that! Tyson was so cute and brave and his relationship with Percy got me going all dfigjkdfgmdf,gdfg. Rick Riordan has a way of writing characters that makes them well rounded and their relationships even mo \"I am Thalia,\" the girl said. \"Daughter of Zeus.\" DEAD So there's that. I've heard everyone saying this is the best book out of the whole series and even though I haven't read most of them yet, I got 'this will be my favorite' vibes while reading Sea of Monsters . Anyways, new characters, yay to that! Tyson was so cute and brave and his relationship with Percy got me going all dfigjkdfgmdf,gdfg. Rick Riordan has a way of writing characters that makes them well rounded and their relationships even more so. Main and secondary characters get their turn to show their true colors and evolve throughout the pages. Which brings me to Luke, who I don't really like that much but I've seen fans going crazy for him so I guess he gets redemption at some point? Or maybe it's just fans loving mean characters? I've been there so no judging. I also loved Hermes, he was so chill and nice and I overall liked him. My favorite thing about Sea of Monsters was the little Ulysses hints we got. The mermaids, Polyphemus and 'Nobody', Percy holding on a sheep for dear life, etc. For someone who was forced to read the entire Odyssey (hello), these little things were appreciated. Aaaaaand we get more on the secret prophecy! Is it Percy, is it Thalia, is it fake or true or what. We'll see, I guess. That was that, if you haven't read this, then for the Gods' sake GO READ IT NOW. Cheers. ...more O my GOD! That ending was not expected! This series is better than I expected! WhooooaaAAAA. Cliff hanger! Plot - 16/20 Characters - 16/20 Creativity - 16/20 Writing - 14/20 Pace - 8/10 Ending - 10/10 80/100 = B 3.5/5 stars I enjoyed this! definatly felt that it was for a younger audience but I still liked it :) can't wait to finish the series\u2661 Even after the third or fourth time, still an all time fav <3 Wow I should really jump on The Trials of Apollo! 3.5 out of 5 stars Dear Percy Jackson fans, Please take into account that I did like this book - 3.5 stars means that - so I beg you not to comment things like \"aww, sorry you didn't enjoy it\" or else I will get very annoyed. Comments like that don't usually annoy me, but this time they will, because as I said, I did enjoy this. Sincerely, Vane. ________________ The Percy Jackson series started strong. Certainly it's not the best I've read, and neither did it blow my mind, but I had lots of fun readin 3.5 out of 5 stars Dear Percy Jackson fans, Please take into account that I did like this book - 3.5 stars means that - so I beg you not to comment things like \"aww, sorry you didn't enjoy it\" or else I will get very annoyed. Comments like that don't usually annoy me, but this time they will, because as I said, I did enjoy this. Sincerely, Vane. ________________ The Percy Jackson series started strong. Certainly it's not the best I've read, and neither did it blow my mind, but I had lots of fun reading it. In fact, it made me travel back to my 12-year-old days and wish I had read it at the time. The second installment in this series was fun too, though in my opinion not as much as the first. There's still adventure with no end, and twists in every turn, but the charm wasn't the same. Have you ever tried a dessert, think it's the most delicious thing in the world, keep eating because - duh - it's orgasmically good and then reach a moment when the taste of that dessert is tiring and you want no more? That is how this book felt. Both the plot and twists were all too formulaic. Parts of the plot weren't even necessary, and others were big Deus Ex Machina that made plenty of things very eye-roll worthy. You see, it was like there was problem #1, which was solved by Deus Ex Machina #1, which leaves to twist #1, which gets us to problem #2 and so on, but they were tiring because after one point, they got terribly predictable and - pardon me - ridiculous. Nonetheless, as I stated before, I did like this book, because even when the plot wasn't so charming, the characters still had their charm. There's Percy who can never get out of trouble, Annabeth who is intelligent and snarky, Grover the satyr now held captive by Polyphemus, and Tyson the cyclops is introduced. Many more characters from Greek mythology make an appearance too, and I still liked them because no matter their difference to the original ones (for example some gods wearing sunglasses, Circe owning a spa, etc.), they're basically the same (although a bit more PG of course). The ending of the book again picks up the Kronos thing, and the supposed prophecy about Percy, making things interesting enough for me to want to pick up the next book ASAP (but I won't till I finish at least one of the books I'm reading because I need to control myself). I can't wait to see how everything turns out in the end, and damn it, I still wish I was a 12-year-old reading this. I am sure the experience would be more satisfying. ...more So it\u2019s been kinda of a long time since I read the first book in the PJO series\u2026 (WHOOPSIE) I was not disappointed with this book, I didn\u2019t like this book as much as the first one. I LOVE Rick Riordan\u2019s writing style, it\u2019s so fun, and kinda convinces (at least me) that it\u2019s a teenager talking But let\u2019s talk about the things I didn\u2019t like\u2026 The plot felt rushed, like you could see the difference with the first one, The Lightning Thief was more \u2018complete\u2019 each chapter and on this one the story wen So it\u2019s been kinda of a long time since I read the first book in the PJO series\u2026 (WHOOPSIE) I was not disappointed with this book, I didn\u2019t like this book as much as the first one. I LOVE Rick Riordan\u2019s writing style, it\u2019s so fun, and kinda convinces (at least me) that it\u2019s a teenager talking But let\u2019s talk about the things I didn\u2019t like\u2026 The plot felt rushed, like you could see the difference with the first one, The Lightning Thief was more \u2018complete\u2019 each chapter and on this one the story went like zoop ! It\u2019s a fast paced book, I know but in this case it wasn\u2019t \u2018fast paced\u2019 it was rushed. Another thing I hate\u2026 The monsters, okay they are ok, but nothing compared to fighting Medusa and Ares! And the fights weren\u2019t that cool, it didn't keep me at the edge of my seat, it was more like \u2018okay fine, they\u2019re fighting this, okay,cool,\u2019 and last for the cons, this book didn\u2019t hook me as much\u2026 Okay it was interesting, I\u2019ll give you that, but, after one chapter or two I was just \u2018okay, I don\u2019t really wanna read anymore\u2026 I\u2019ll just watch Netflix\u2019 as for the first one \u2018OMG OMG! What is going to happen?!\u2019 But let\u2019s talk about the characters: FREAKING PERCY JACKSON TRIES TO SAVE EVERYONE EVEN WHEN THEY DON\u2019T NEED IT! It was so annoying sometimes, some people could save themselves but NOOO Perseus Jackson has to come and be the hero! Annabeth is so cute! I LOVE HER I LOVE HER, I felt kinda bad for her throughout the book, but I love when she calls Percy \u2018seaweed brain\u2019 EEEH SO CUTE! (PERCABETH AM I RIGHT PEOPLE?!?) And finally Tyson, he is so sweet! (view spoiler) [I felt so bad for him whenever Percy tried to deny that they were related, like why?!?. (hide spoiler) ] But anyway that is it, even tho I didn\u2019t really LOVE this book I\u2019ll still give it a solid 4 star rating. Hope you enjoyed reading my review! BYE! ...more Best part of this reread was Grover in a wedding dress, hands down. I read this mainly because it\u2019s a little embarrassing that I haven\u2019t yet at this point. It\u2019s been on my shelves for a while and it was getting a bit silly. It was even sitting there with a bookmark in it, because I\u2019ve attempted to read it once. It was just too sad. So I tried again and here I am. It was a fun journey, it really was. The characters and their way of interacting is incredible and I didn\u2019t feel the \u201csequel\u2019s downfall\u201d at all. That being said, it is a middle grade\u2026 And I\u2019ve outgrown I read this mainly because it\u2019s a little embarrassing that I haven\u2019t yet at this point. It\u2019s been on my shelves for a while and it was getting a bit silly. It was even sitting there with a bookmark in it, because I\u2019ve attempted to read it once. It was just too sad. So I tried again and here I am. It was a fun journey, it really was. The characters and their way of interacting is incredible and I didn\u2019t feel the \u201csequel\u2019s downfall\u201d at all. That being said, it is a middle grade\u2026 And I\u2019ve outgrown that, sadly. So there were times where the humor didn\u2019t appeal to me at all and places where violence was strongly toned down for the sake of young readers\u2026 And that sort of dragged my reading experience down. I\u2019ll still continue with the series, but God, do I wish I\u2019d read it when I was younger. I would have loved it. ...more Diese Reihe macht einfach richtig Spa\u00df \u2661 First off, this book is a blatant rip-off of the Harry Potter series, and is obviously targeting that population. Here's a sample of the similarities: Main hero is young son of magical lineage, destined by prophecy to one of two possible destroyers of the evil Lord because of his birthday (think Harry Potter and Longbottom). Impetuous and brave, but often lacking skill, he gets in fixes and needs his friends to pull him out. He attends a summer training school for magical persons like himself. D First off, this book is a blatant rip-off of the Harry Potter series, and is obviously targeting that population. Here's a sample of the similarities: Main hero is young son of magical lineage, destined by prophecy to one of two possible destroyers of the evil Lord because of his birthday (think Harry Potter and Longbottom). Impetuous and brave, but often lacking skill, he gets in fixes and needs his friends to pull him out. He attends a summer training school for magical persons like himself. During the offseason, he mingles with regular people like you and me = Harry Potter. Wise, ancient leader of magical training school takes a special interest in young hero, but often does not disclose all he knows about his future to protect him. Gets kicked out during the second book by leaders of the magical world for falsely being accused. Consequently the camp is run by magical tyrant until his name is cleared. = Dumbledore. Magical friend of main hero knows a lot more about the magical world and always knows what to do to get out of scrapes = Hermione Big giant-like oaf with kind heart and special attachment to main hero, has a special attachment to magical animals = Hagrid Dark Lord once defeated by main hero tries to regain his human-like form again so he can \"rise again\" and take charge of army of monsters to fight against magical kingdom. Oh yeah, he communicates with and taunts main hero in his dreams. = Voldemort. One house of magical children in the training school hates main hero. Always have, clear back to the leader of their house, and always will. = Slytherin. Upon entering the training school, hero doesn't know what house he belongs to until he is \"claimed\" by magic = sorting into houses. Training school is where heroes learn to channel and use their powers. It is protected by magical boundaries so the bad guys can't get in and the children are safe as long as they don't stray beyond boundaries = Hogwarts Anyway, you see what I mean. It's so obvious, I'm surprised there hasn't been more accusations by Potter fans about this. However, to be fair, most fantasy books really boil down to about the same kinds of characters and plots, so it's a rehashing of what we are all familiar with. That being said, I really enjoyed this book (the first of the series that I have read) and am enjoying the third one right now. It is not quite as good as Harry Potter, but if you liked Harry Potter, I think you'll definitely enjoy this series. The main creativity being shown here--I must give props for this--is the retelling of the ancient Greek myths in modern-day New York City. It was fun to see how creatively the author could convert the myths to fit modern times. He's clever this way, and many funny nuances will go unappreciated unless you are familiar with the myths, so I would recommend looking the characters up on Wikipedia as you read the book. However, as I've been rereading the myths, I've been reminded how bloody and lustful they are, so you might want to skim. Because of how it retells the Greek myths, particularly in a more PG way, I think it's a good way to help kids read and understand Greek mythology, which is often important to understanding many other kinds of literature. However, it could be scary for younger kids, and even in Riordan's less graphic translations, some of the myths and characters still raise awkward questions for children---such as why all these demigods are the products of one-night stands, and why the gods seem to have so little interest in their children. Enjoy! ...more", "Title": "The Sea of Monsters"},
