{"Comments": "not gonna lie, it took me a little bit of time to fully get into this one, but the pay off was worth it. so many crazy things happened in this book & i'm still sitting here in a bit of shock! full video review to come. I have yet to be disappointed in this series. A real rarity in a fantasy series in general. The story starts out with Percy, Annabeth, and Thalia trying to help Grover to sneak out two half-bloods from a private military style school. Things get immediately messy and they stumble upon yet another problem, or more like a crisis. In the process of a battle Annabeth is stolen away. Something called The General is out again wrecking havoc and as you can already tell Luke has a hand in all this. This I have yet to be disappointed in this series. A real rarity in a fantasy series in general. The story starts out with Percy, Annabeth, and Thalia trying to help Grover to sneak out two half-bloods from a private military style school. Things get immediately messy and they stumble upon yet another problem, or more like a crisis. In the process of a battle Annabeth is stolen away. Something called The General is out again wrecking havoc and as you can already tell Luke has a hand in all this. This time around though you see Luke for what he really is, a kid trying to play with the big boys. We get to see the goddess <---C>Artemis</---C> and her huntresses. Quite an intriguing bunch, eternal life if you don't fall in love? Kind of harsh, but I guess the price you pay matches your reward. The second in command of the huntresses, Zoe, would have to be my favorite new character. She's prickly but you learn throughout the book why she is the way she is. Bianca and Nico are the new half-bloods and will prove to play important roles in how the plot moves along. It never fails to impress me how the author can intricately put everything into these books. I never feel bored and I love the view he takes on different mythology stories. After reading this book I'll never look at Hercules the same. One of my biggest enjoyments is seeing different American landmarks mentioned in the story, and seeing their odd connection to the Greek myths. You can tell the books are going to take a bit of a darker turn. It makes sense since they all are getting older and the inevitable prophecy is looming over. Always funny, fast-paced, and having hidden fountains of mysteries. I am SO ready for more! ...more HADES!!!!!!! Gahhhh this book series is amazing!!!! Nico!!!!! This morning, while waiting with Celyn at her hospital appointment I told her I was going to write a review of the book I finished reading to her the night before and asked her if it deserved 5*.<---F> She said it did</---F>. So 5* it is. I picked this book up from Celyn's pile when we went off on her school trip (<---B>a week in the wilds</---B>) and being in a hurry I managed to get book 3 of the series rather than book 2 (we read book 1 last year). So we've jumped over The Sea of Monsters - but I don't think the readin This morning, while waiting with Celyn at her hospital appointment I told her I was going to write a review of the book I finished reading to her the night before and asked her if it deserved 5*. She said it did. So 5* it is. I picked this book up from Celyn's pile when we went off on her school trip (a week in the wilds) and being in a hurry I managed to get book 3 of the series rather than book 2 (we read book 1 last year). So we've jumped over The Sea of Monsters - but I don't think the reading experience suffered for it. The short version is: if you enjoyed The Lightning Thief then you'll enjoy this one too. The book is written in the same vein as the first, mining the Greek myths for monsters and plot, and mixing in an American road trip along with Percy's irreverent observations. We don't get much of Annabeth in the book as she's a prisoner for a lot if it. We get lots of Thalia (Zeus' daughter), a fair dose of Grover (a Pan-hunting satyr), and a lot of Zoe Nightshade (one of Artemis' hunting posse). A lot of the book is spent travelling by varied means from one side of the States to the other, a journey punctuated by encounters with monsters. We're set up for a big boss-battle on the Mountain of Despair and that's a fun battle with everything from gods and titans to dragons and bi-planes. All in all an action-packed book to which Celyn was happy to return at every opportunity. And if some of the Greek myths stick with her ... all to the good! Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes ...more Let me open by saying...<---A>Rick Riordan</---A>, I'm sorry for what I'm about to say. I'm an unpublished writer and I know the best I can hope for is that at some point some will like what I write,<---M> and some will well</---M>, rip it. I've not been \"real complimentary' of these books up to this point, I gave each 3 stars...said they were what I'd call, \"not bad\". I dropped this one to 2 stars...it's getting to \"bad\". First, I must say apologetically that the writing isn't all that great. I know these have sold millio Let me open by saying...Rick Riordan, I'm sorry for what I'm about to say. I'm an unpublished writer and I know the best I can hope for is that at some point some will like what I write, and some will well, rip it. I've not been \"real complimentary' of these books up to this point, I gave each 3 stars...said they were what I'd call, \"not bad\". I dropped this one to 2 stars...it's getting to \"bad\". First, I must say apologetically that the writing isn't all that great. I know these have sold millions and we have the first movie in what I know a lot of people hope will be a series. I can't account for people's taste, I mean look at Gilligan's Island. Reading these books I must say that somewhere there's probably a toddler with a parent reading them to him/her who is thinking something like, \"Percy is just now getting that? I figured it out 5 chapters ago\". Percy Jackson is without a doubt as dense as a locust fence post. The kid is written so thick I'm surprised he can get his shoes on. I'd never have trusted this kid with a butter knife, much less a magic sword (of course luckily it won't hurt \"mortals\" only \"immortals' as it's made of celestial bronze. This must be an odd kind of bronze as I know all bronze I've come in contact with is pretty much as solid as any other metal.). Aside from the usual problem of Percy being so frustratingly (your going to see that word or it's root \"frustrate\" a few times in this review) thick this book manages to go to new heights in it's efforts to drive readers into banging their heads into walls. Without giving a spoiler, there is another regular character in the books who has been sort of the \"counter-point\" to Percy's inability to understand the most elementary event. Her character has been fairly well established. SO, to set up the action in this book the author has her do something so frustratingly (yes, there's the word) stupid and against character that I knew things weren't going to go well. Yes, I got what was supposed to be the reason in/for the act...but she'd never have acted so stupidly, not the girl we met in the first 2 books. There are other problems here that were smaller in the first two books but apparently like wounds left untended have festered and are now overpowering the rest of the story. His playing fast and loose with history and myth are getting beyond my tolerance. He managed to turn Artemis the hunter into a sort of female Peter Pan and her huntresses into a girls club of \"lost girls\" instead of \"lost boys\" stuck at that age where little boys go \"yuck girls\" and little girls go \"yuck boys\". I could almost hear them singing....\" I won't grow up, I won't grow up...I don't want to go to school, I don't want to go to school....\" Need I say any more, maybe the story's take on Hercules? Maybe more of the incorrect slant given to the Greek Pantheon? If ignorance was contagious or misinformation was infectious this book would be banned by the CDC. I've been treating these books as YA books. They are so frustratingly simplistic I think I need to think of them more as juvenile level reads and go from there. I got them from the library and the next 2 are laying here (the second through the 5th came in together). Were I buying these I'd probably have stopped earlier, this one would bring me even closer to it. Were my kids still small and had they gotten into these I'd definitely go over anything they were picking up from them book by book. On the positive side (I need to say something positive) the books do manage to show the pettiness and selfishness that was so prevalent in the character of the deities and heroes of Greek myth. It fails in filling that out, but it is there. I live in hope that the next book won't frustrate me as badly as this one has. \"Where there's life there's hope\" as the old saying goes...and I keep hoping. I'll drop this volume to 2 stars and hope the next is better. ...more My favourite book of the series so far! I love you Percy LET'S MAKE IT COMPULSORY FOR EVERYONE TO READ THESE BOOKS This book very much follows the formula established by its predecessors even though the action is more intense, and you certainly get the feeling that author Rick Riordan is building towards his big finale. I feel like this book easily holds up to the two previous installments, but I found myself a bit underwhelmed by certain aspects, namely the formulaic feel of the beginning of the book, and Percy's serious and multiple blunders early on. On the other hand, the introduction of new characters: This book very much follows the formula established by its predecessors even though the action is more intense, and you certainly get the feeling that author Rick Riordan is building towards his big finale. I feel like this book easily holds up to the two previous installments, but I found myself a bit underwhelmed by certain aspects, namely the formulaic feel of the beginning of the book, and Percy's serious and multiple blunders early on. On the other hand, the introduction of new characters: gods, heroes and mythical creatures alike combined with the evident path towards the true climax of the series kept me interested and made for an overall pleasant read. The story starts off as the usual, almost repetitive form, with Percy answering a distress call from Grover, but this time the differences are that it's mid-winter instead of the beginning of the school year, and Annabeth and Thalia join Percy from the start. I should mention that, at this point, I began feeling very frustrated about Percy's behavior; it seemed to me that he was trying to compete with Thalia , since she is the new deal, daughter of one of The Three and all, but he is failing miserably! He is making a lot of rash and quite frankly stupid judgement calls just to prove a point to Thalia. And speaking of Thalia, it still felt weird having her back in action so suddenly, but I quickly got used to her and grew to like her a lot . Soon enough they return to Camp Half-Blood and a quest is presented, as always. As usual, there is a limited time frame to accomplish the quest. Now don't get me wrong, plenty of things surprised me along the way.There is a much bigger part of the story involving gods, both new ones and the ones we've met before. Regarding the later, we get new and interesting details on them. Arthemis and her Hunters were a highlight and a really gobbled up the scenes that they were in. I loved how the gods fit together into the plot as a whole and it's always neat to see them in their updated or modernized personas. As always, the writing style is simple and to the point, and while a first person narrative from a 14 year old boy isn't very lyrical or groundbreaking, it does make for a quick and fun read. Interesting quotes that I didn't include in the review: There is always a way out for those clever enough to find it. ...more RATING : Rick Riordan is a genius. I finished this book with a smile on my face, just like with the other two books. Friendship and family are two of the most prominent themes in this series and I think lessons like those are important for books that cater to younger readers. I find that these books are not only fun, but also teaches the readers something valuable. I'd most definitely recommend this series to my daugher when she's older. :) But really, this series is only getting better. I did lo RATING : Rick Riordan is a genius. I finished this book with a smile on my face, just like with the other two books. Friendship and family are two of the most prominent themes in this series and I think lessons like those are important for books that cater to younger readers. I find that these books are not only fun, but also teaches the readers something valuable. I'd most definitely recommend this series to my daugher when she's older. :) But really, this series is only getting better. I did loved Sea of Monsters a bit more, but that doesn't mean I didn't think this one wasn't good. There were just very minor things that I preferred on the second book than here. The Friday before winter break, my mom packed me an overnight bag and a few deadly weapons and took me to my new boarding school. This first line really made me giggle. I mean how many moms would pack their children \"deadly weapons\", right? LOL. Anyways, going back. Percy, Annabeth, and Thalia were dropped off by Percy's mom on their new boarding school, Westover Hall. Which they said looked like an evil knight's castle. It seems that Grover had told them to come to Westover Hall because there were two other Half-bloods. They were trying to retrieve them but they ran into trouble and they lost Annabeth. *ooooppssss* And before anyone could react, the monster, with Annabeth still on his back, leaped over the cliff and tumbled into the darkness. Artemis and her hunters came to help them, but they couldn't get to Annabeth. Percy and the others need to get back to Camp Half Blood to get the Di Angelo kids to safety and find a way to get Annabeth back. And to Percy's dismay, he wasn't picked for the quest to save Annabeth. \" Thalia would not have been my first choice to go on this quest. She's too impetous. She acts without thinking. She is too sure of herself.\" \"Would you have chosen me?\" \"Frankly, no,\" he said. \"You and Thalia are much alike.\" But we all know that this is a Percy Jackson book. There is no way in hell he wouldn't be on that quest. And sure enough, he gets to join the trip. And there, they find out more about the chaos that Luke and Kronos is about to unleash. I don't think there is really much to say about these characters because I still really like them. I didn't find any problems with the main characters and also with the antagonists. I really like Luke's character because he is the type of villain that you want to change. I want him to change. I hope I get to see his character change in the last two books. Percy was still good. I still liked his character. Annabeth was not in this book too much which is a bummer because she's my favorite. Thalia was.. well.. annoying at time. Grover was still Grover. The additional Gods were a lot of fun to read about. There was my favorite Greek God Apollo. I was kind of wondering when we might see him. There was Artemis and her Hunters. I can't believe I'll be saying this, but Diyonisus wasn't so bad. Haha. - I still liked the characters. The newer ones were a good addition. - I liked how the characters weren't invincible. This made them real in my opinion. These kids were demigods, they are not immortal. So, they could die. And what these kids faced, it would be super unrealistic for none of them to die. Someone should. And someone did. *ooopss* Don't worry. It's not really a spoiler. It's part of the prophecy. Hehe. You guys just have to figure out who dies. - Percy's relationship with his mom is one of the things I liked about this book. I liked how she never gets disregarded. Her opinion still matters to him. - The writing is still as entertaining. It's super engaging and fresh. It's still unlike anything I've ever read before. I often wonder if Rick is really an adult because of the way he writes. He really captures mostly how a person Percy's age thinks and acts. - The villains were very villainy. I felt that they were really a threat to the kids and to the Gods too. - I didn't like how Annabeth was missing on a large chunk of this book. I did not appreciate that at all Rick!!! Annabeth is like my soul sister, I did not appreciate not reading about her. - I had a bit of a hard time connecting with Thalia at first. We what happened to her and how she lived from the last book. There wasn't any time to connect with her at all since she was there on the first chapter like she wasn't a tree on the last book. - There were lines on the first few chapters that sounded a lot like what Dumbledore from Harry Potter would say. I am obsessed with this series! I loved Greek Myth. I probably have read every Greek myth there ever is (that might be an exagerration but I really love Greek Myth). I've also read quite a few Greek myth retellings but this is by far the most fun, enjoyable and creative of the bunch. I love Percy and would definitely read more of Rick Riordan's books. I highly recommend this series!!! If you haven't picked this series up, what are you doing with your life? :D Read it. Read it. Read it! ...more 4.5/5 SO glad that I'm continuing on with this series! This book was fast paced and (in my opinion) way better than Sea of Monsters. I can't wait to read the next book soon! I actually found myself laughing aloud at some of the dad jokes in this one. A+ Rick riordan I've been sneakily rereading the Percy Jackson series backwards the past month. I don't add them to my currently-reading shelf because I have ARCs and other stuff I should be reading instead and if I don't put them there, it doesn't feel like I'm procrastinating. It's during rereads that I discover the sheer genius Riordan weaves in his work. He introduces important characters in unimportant ways, and it's beautiful. The foreshadowing is unreal. Percy-fection. This. I like. Me likee very much, thank you. I'm doing a marathon read of this series this year (although I've paused for some Skulduggery Pleasant because I have reading ADD...I relate to Percy) and I'm really getting enthused! First two books started a bit rocky with me. I wasn't ever wowed . And while I'm still waiting for crushing feels (I think that'll coming in the next Heroes of Olympus series more so than this one?) I'm starting to LOVE AND ADORE THESE BOOKS. So much epicness. So many peo This. I like. Me likee very much, thank you. I'm doing a marathon read of this series this year (although I've paused for some Skulduggery Pleasant because I have reading ADD...I relate to Percy) and I'm really getting enthused! First two books started a bit rocky with me. I wasn't ever wowed . And while I'm still waiting for crushing feels (I think that'll coming in the next Heroes of Olympus series more so than this one?) I'm starting to LOVE AND ADORE THESE BOOKS. So much epicness. So many people die. You'd think the Camp Directors would, eh, I don't know, stop the 14-year-olds going on quests that would kill them (where are all the older half-bloods, may I ask? DEAD? Probably) but someone's gotta save the world. Lots of casualties. I'm pretty much SAD. Firstly, though, I want to say that the ending is absolutely TERRIFIC! This is the ending I've been waiting for! IT IS. It was equal parts epic and saddening and totally raised the stakes and...Okay, forget this. I need to talk. So spoilers, yes? (view spoiler) [ I KNEW ABOUT NICO, OKAY?! As soon as no god claimed him I'm like, 'He's son of Hades'. So caaaalled it. You may marvel at my intellect. (Don't roll your eyes. Stahp it.) I maintain that Bianca was the worst sister EVER. Ugh. How could she abandon her real family like that?? She was \"tired of always looking after Nico\"? So this is the solution? Never look after Nico again? So, sorry, no tears shed when she died. I'm also very sad about Zoe dying. She was AMAZING. But I think Thalia will make a perfect Hunter and I'm so so glad Annabeth didn't. PHEWF. I would've died a little if she had joined the hunters. (hide spoiler) ] Also...why the heck does someone ALWAYS interrupt when Percy and Annabeth are talking?? It's driving me insane. I seriously want to know what Annabeth keeps trying to tell Percy. I WANT TO KNOW NOW. *foot stamp* This is a great lure to keep me reading. I see your evilry, Rick Riordan. I see it. I also giggled at the scene where Aphrodite totally ships Percy and Annabeth. She ships them SO HARD and it's hilarious. The fandom is Aphrodite. <-- Most truthful statement in the universe. One thing I'm a little miffed at, though, is that all the books so far have the same structure. Basically: a) get randomly tossed into Camp Half-Blood (probably out of season) and then b) face a monster or a threat, c) someone gets kidnapped and needs rescuing, d) get a prophecy, e) go on a quest, f) expect to die, but, you know, survive because the story is in first-person via Percy, g) kill monsters, h) return to Camp Half Blood to sleep for a week and then go back home to START THE WHOLE THING AGAIN. I'm wondering when it'll change up. The structure is too similar and I'm getting twitchy. It's very easy to predict the endings (I just have to wonder who'll die). But they're funny. And I like funny books. I love the writing. I love Percy's narration. BUT I MISSED ANNABETH. Annabeth is literally not in this one (not a spoiler! The blurb says so!). There was not enough \"Seaweed Brain\" and arguing and Thalia is too much of a tough-girl stereotype and Grover is unhealthily obsessed with Pan (and he kind of stalks girls too) and...and....I want to read more about Nico. Okay...NEXT BOOK HERE I COME. ...more Having celebrity parents is a double-edged sword. And when they happen to be temperamental IMMORTAL Greek Gods...it\u2019s a whole new ball game. Artemis , The Goddess of The Hunt is M.I.A. and Annabeth , Percy\u2019s \u201cgood friend\u201d and fellow half-blood is missing AND in grave danger. Two new undetermined and powerful half-bloods, Bianca and Nico di Angelo have made an appearance. Luke and his dastardly plans of resurrecting Kronos are in full swing but now he seems to have an even more chilling ordeal set u Having celebrity parents is a double-edged sword. And when they happen to be temperamental IMMORTAL Greek Gods...it\u2019s a whole new ball game. Artemis , The Goddess of The Hunt is M.I.A. and Annabeth , Percy\u2019s \u201cgood friend\u201d and fellow half-blood is missing AND in grave danger. Two new undetermined and powerful half-bloods, Bianca and Nico di Angelo have made an appearance. Luke and his dastardly plans of resurrecting Kronos are in full swing but now he seems to have an even more chilling ordeal set up for the heroes. Hot headed Thalia (daughter of Zeus), aloof and courageous Zo\u00eb Nightshade (the lieutenant of Artemis\u2019s Huntresses), tin-can chewing Grover , Bianca and the long-suffering but utterly brave Percy Jackson are soon off on a new and uncertain quest. Dealing with bickering quest-mates, rescuing hapless creatures, battling skeletal warriors, trying to stay sane through prophetic nightmares and struggling not to offend the Gods...our good hero does it all. The Titan\u2019s Curse is a rollercoaster ride loaded with mythological tidbits and the promise of relentless adventure. As always, Riordan delivers. ...more You bewitched little thing wrapped in paperback! I don't know how the books in this series manage to coin 5 stars out of me at the last minute. Oh wait, I do know. Rick Riordan is the master at rocking concluding pages. Or at least he's high up there somewhere in rank. The plot twists at the end are SO GOOD. The plot A Percy Jackson story does not begin until a quest arrives. For me, everything before it is boredom and everything after is pure adrenalin. I get so absorbed in the story once the qu You bewitched little thing wrapped in paperback! I don't know how the books in this series manage to coin 5 stars out of me at the last minute. Oh wait, I do know. Rick Riordan is the master at rocking concluding pages. Or at least he's high up there somewhere in rank. The plot twists at the end are SO GOOD. The plot A Percy Jackson story does not begin until a quest arrives. For me, everything before it is boredom and everything after is pure adrenalin. I get so absorbed in the story once the quest is underway. So, let's do a check list, shall we? We have: \u2611 Percy \u2611 Grover \u2611 Annabeth Annabeth's missing \u2611 The Quest \u2611 and the new additions to the character list. That's all there is to know about the plot. The INTRUDERS I mean new characters. Oops. I was so infuriated by Thalia's character( Thalia: Former tree daughter of Zeus come back to life. Sorry if you were spoilered) at the beginning. Of course I had to be. Hello? Mouthy Intruder alert. I just kept wishing someone would give her a wedgie. I guess its normal to react this way. I'm comfortable in my sense of familiarity with characters I've bonded with since book 1. Percy's a mess. But he's my mess. He screws up things big time --and a lot too-- and does the most undemi-godlike things. But I know that already, so I'm not so mad at him when he gives away victory to his opponents during a game of \"Capture the Flag\", or when tries to be mindlessly heroic instead of turning and running the other way, opposite the danger, with as much speed as he can until his legs touch his head. There's just this fierce sense of solidarity and allegiance, that comes with being in a leading character's head for so long. So I got mad whenever Thalia said something unwelcoming or upsetting to and about Percy. In the end I warmed up to her, because the girl is a fighter, and brave too. But Yes. Because of one book I've become the irritable, hateful, frustrated chump who makes it hard for the new kid on the block. The other additional characters like Zo\u00eb(and her annoying use of \"thy\"), Bianca and Nico were very exerting in their importance in this story, but I don't feel the need to go over their fine qualities. Oh, and let's not forget the new gods which we were introduced as well. I always look forward to the next god Percy makes an encounter with. This book didn't fail to deliver on all the aspects which I've come to love the series for; ADVENTURE, Gratifying action scenes, the crazy laughs and fine humor, spirited and endearing characters, morals on human connections and relationships which need to be conveyed to readers of a young age(to whom this series caters to)like: family, teamwork, companionship, even rivalry. And what I love most, how it relates the true meaning of friendship. Friendship like these guys had back in the day. ...more cool story bro Percy Jackson is back... and Annabelle is missing! Grover, Thalia, and Percy must team up with the Hunters (Artemis' immortal virgin maidens) to find Annabelle and Artemis. If only Grover didn't spend all of his time mooning of the Hunters and guzzling coffee... If only Thalia, daughter of the god of the sky, wasn't afraid of heights... If only the Hunters didn't despise Percy just because he's a guy... oh yeah. This quest is going to be just great. This was a delightfully funny installment to Ri Percy Jackson is back... and Annabelle is missing! Grover, Thalia, and Percy must team up with the Hunters (Artemis' immortal virgin maidens) to find Annabelle and Artemis. If only Grover didn't spend all of his time mooning of the Hunters and guzzling coffee... If only Thalia, daughter of the god of the sky, wasn't afraid of heights... If only the Hunters didn't despise Percy just because he's a guy... oh yeah. This quest is going to be just great. This was a delightfully funny installment to Riordan's series. He continues to illuminate and weave greco-roman myths into the stories at every turn, making them relevant and humorous to younger readers. Percy's severe ADHD (being the son of a god, of course!) boils over into a plot filled with face-paced action and wise-cracking. Give this to reluctant readers, especially middle school boys who \"hate to read\"! [Booktalk this!: 6th-8th graders, especially boys] ...more So far this is my favourite Percy Jackson book. Really fast pace and a lot of new characters were introduced which I loved. Zoe nightshade was such an interesting character and I really loved her backstory. The ending was the best part though with Nico, I really didn't see that coming. I can't wait to continue this series. WHAT. IN. THE. NAME. OF. ZEUS. JUST. HAAAAAAPPPEEENNNNEDDDD!?!!?!?!???!!?!?!? Ok ok oookkkkk!!!! Like HOLY CRAAAAPPP!!! For middle grade, this is CRAZY GOOD!! I am in love with Percy and the writing and everything!!! I cant spoil anything but that ENDING?!?!?!!?: I cant right now. This was so SAD considering THAT part (view spoiler) [The death of Bianca and Zoe Nightshade. Oh and Atlas being Zoe's FATHER?!?! WHHAATTTT!!! (hide spoiler) ] And THAT part!!: (view spoiler) [Nico is HADES CHILD!!! WHAAAT WHAT. IN. THE. NAME. OF. ZEUS. JUST. HAAAAAAPPPEEENNNNEDDDD!?!!?!?!???!!?!?!? Ok ok oookkkkk!!!! Like HOLY CRAAAAPPP!!! For middle grade, this is CRAZY GOOD!! I am in love with Percy and the writing and everything!!! I cant spoil anything but that ENDING?!?!?!!?: I cant right now. This was so SAD considering THAT part (view spoiler) [The death of Bianca and Zoe Nightshade. Oh and Atlas being Zoe's FATHER?!?! WHHAATTTT!!! (hide spoiler) ] And THAT part!!: (view spoiler) [Nico is HADES CHILD!!! WHAAATTT?!!?!?!? (hide spoiler) ] Rick, you're like Marissa Meyer: just giving me the feels!! Go read this series. Im so serious, Im SIRIUS (#HarryPotterPun) Now excuse me: I have to go cry.... #PercyJackson #RickRiordan #TheTitansCurse #5Stars #ThanksRickForMakingMeCryAgain[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Ich m\u00f6chte auch auf einem Blackjack fliegen, eine Bessie kennen, mit Grover umherziehen, Partys auf dem Olymp feiern und die G\u00f6tter pers\u00f6nlich treffen! :D These books just keep getting better and better and more extreme and I love it. An incredible book! Bianca and Nico were wonderful new characters. Zoe is a new favorite of mine. If only she didn't die at the end. I can't look at stars without thinking of her death. I really like Thalia but I think she was sort of a coward to become an immortal Hunter the day before her 16th birthday so that she can dodge the prophecy. Oh well. I wish more Annabeth was included. Artemis and Apollo were brilliant inclusions. Meeting Athena, my favorite Greek deity, was cool. All in all, one o An incredible book! Bianca and Nico were wonderful new characters. Zoe is a new favorite of mine. If only she didn't die at the end. I can't look at stars without thinking of her death. I really like Thalia but I think she was sort of a coward to become an immortal Hunter the day before her 16th birthday so that she can dodge the prophecy. Oh well. I wish more Annabeth was included. Artemis and Apollo were brilliant inclusions. Meeting Athena, my favorite Greek deity, was cool. All in all, one of my favorite books. ...more This series is so great! I love to read from Percy's point of view, it's hilarious! And I can't wait to find out what happens!! I mean, Nico! And that last scene! And I want something to happen between Percy and Annabeth! - Even though this series is considered middle-grade litterature, I think it can be enjoyed by all people in all ages. Pick it up, if you want to read something relaxing and not too serious! ;-) Ahora lo entiendo. Puedo entender por qu\u00e9 este libro de la saga es el favorito de todos. Desde el primer cap\u00edtulo no dejan de pasar cosas, todo va tomando m\u00e1s forma y los personajes que van saliendo y entrando a la historia son cada vez m\u00e1s fascinantes. Sab\u00eda lo de Nico, lo ve\u00eda venir, pero fue un giro que agradec\u00ed a los cielos que pasara. Solo dir\u00e9 que necesito m\u00e1s de Hades y ser\u00e9 100% feliz. Me declaro otra tonta fan de Percy Jackson y a much\u00edsimo honor. Really this series has thus far been very dependable. I wasn't let down by <+++>The Titan's Curse</+++> at all and for an in between book it was very entertaining. Mission: Save the goddess Artemis, Annabeth, and find a deadly creature that could possibly destroy Olympus. The Team: Percy (obviously), Grover (wouldn't have it any other way), Thalia (inevitable), and two huntresses called Zoe and Bianca. It's just as funny as the other two and still full of action. The hints in this book are a bit more subtle Really this series has thus far been very dependable. I wasn't let down by <+++>The Titan's Curse</+++> at all and for an in between book it was very entertaining. Mission: Save the goddess Artemis, Annabeth, and find a deadly creature that could possibly destroy Olympus. The Team: Percy (obviously), Grover (wouldn't have it any other way), Thalia (inevitable), and two huntresses called Zoe and Bianca. It's just as funny as the other two and still full of action. The hints in this book are a bit more subtle but I could still kind of tell what was going to happen and the ending wasn't a huge surprise. The ending was a cliff hanger. Percy is now ready to take the prophecy on and though his growth and development has been very minor it didn't bother me. I still like it that he can see humor. It keeps the book light and fun. Two more books to go! ...more My most favorite installment so far. Got my 10 yr-old friend to read the series and he's enjoying them as much as I did. He read book 2 over one week during winter vacation! We're having a great time discussing the story and even some of the deeper concepts. If you haven't picked them up, do it! For now, my second in the series, first being The Sea of monsters. Even though I wish Annabeth was more in it, I liked most of the new characters we were introduced to. Can't wait to start book 4. It was more than amazing! Just... PERFECT!", "Title": "The Titan's Curse"},
