{"Comments": "<+++>Seabiscuit: An American Legend</+++>Prior to November 2003, non-fiction only entered my reading choices on sporadic occasions. In November 2003, a pioneering member of my book club was the first to choose a non-fiction book instead of a novel.<---F> That book was Seabiscuit</---F>. Even though I have always loved horses, I had avoided reading Seabiscuit. I just couldn't believe that all the hype was real. So many times I had picked up a non-fiction book on a topic that I was really curious about, and either put it down unfinished or forced mys Prior to November 2003, non-fiction only entered my reading choices on sporadic occasions. In November 2003, a pioneering member of my book club was the first to choose a non-fiction book instead of a novel. That book was Seabiscuit. Even though I have always loved horses, I had avoided reading Seabiscuit. I just couldn't believe that all the hype was real. So many times I had picked up a non-fiction book on a topic that I was really curious about, and either put it down unfinished or forced myself to slog through it. Despite my interest in the subject matter, the writing would drive me crazy - too technical,<---M> too boring</---M>, too text-book like. In fact, as one of those over-achieving students who always completed college reading assignments, I would have to say that many textbooks were actually better reads than the average non-fiction offering on store shelves. Seabiscuit, I was happy to find, was a complete surprise. The hype was real. No wonder it had sold so many copies. It really does read like a novel, and yet it is so deep - Ms. Hillenbrand has really explored her topic thoroughly and passes on all the details to us. There is a section where she describes the jockeys' experience of riding in a race that is one of the best pieces of prose I have ever, and will ever, read. I read it over and over. It's so visceral, she really puts you in the saddle, plus the prose is beautiful in and of itself. Another reason for the success of this novel is her success at placing the events in their historical context. She not only puts you in the saddle, she takes you back in time. This was one of the universally best-received choices we've read in book club. Everyone loved it, whether or not they cared at all about horses or sports. And ever since then, I've given non-fiction more chances, and with better luck, than ever before. Sometimes I still put one down unfinished, but now that I know how they can be, I try more often. I highly recommend Seabiscuit to any of the following people: anyone who has the slightest interest in horses or sports, anyone who thinks jockeys have an easy job, anyone interested in American history, anyone with no interest in horses who just loves good writing, anyone who thinks non-fiction is dull and would welcome a surprise, and EVERYONE ELSE! :o) ========================== Update, 2011 Just finished reading for the second time, this time aloud. Still LOVE this book. And while reading aloud (<---B>which really makes you take your time!</---B>) I was powerfully struck again by the Ms. Hillenbrand's facility with language - to say she has \"a way with words\" is entirely inadequate to express the beauty and expressiveness of her writing. But although beautiful, please don't think her writing might be too \"prosy\" - it is NOT unnecessarily flowery or overbearing. Seabiscuit is simply a fabulous read. ...more I'm jealous of this woman, because she writes better than I do. I've always been a little snobby towards Seabiscuit, as I'm a devoted War Admiral fan, but this is probably the best book out there that really captures the essence of horse racing, and she picked the right horse to do it with. This story is not just about Seabiscuit. It's also about humanity, and most importantly (to me), racing itself, as it was in the 1930s. You will be astonished at what you learn from this book, from the incredi I'm jealous of this woman, because she writes better than I do. I've always been a little snobby towards Seabiscuit, as I'm a devoted War Admiral fan, but this is probably the best book out there that really captures the essence of horse racing, and she picked the right horse to do it with. This story is not just about Seabiscuit. It's also about humanity, and most importantly (to me), racing itself, as it was in the 1930s. You will be astonished at what you learn from this book, from the incredible hardships jockies are willing to endure for love of their sport to the unique \"underworld\" that exists behind the scenes. Her research is extensive and meticulous, her writing style engaging and honest. She brings this whole world to life, and I'm thrilled that such a window into the sport that I love has been opened for the average person who knows nothing about it, nor has probably ever wondered or cared. ...more I don't read very much non- fiction but I just loved this ! A true inspirational story about broken hearts and lost souls, the golden thread that holds them together and yes.. belief . Belief in oneself. A horse, trained to lose right from its birth. Lose so that others can look good when they win. Lose, so that when they win, they can look back and see others way behind. A horse, which has learned to live with pain and humiliation. A horse, which is angry. It is this horse that catches the eye of Tom Smith, a veteran horse trainer employed under Charles A true inspirational story about broken hearts and lost souls, the golden thread that holds them together and yes.. belief . Belief in oneself. A horse, trained to lose right from its birth. Lose so that others can look good when they win. Lose, so that when they win, they can look back and see others way behind. A horse, which has learned to live with pain and humiliation. A horse, which is angry. It is this horse that catches the eye of Tom Smith, a veteran horse trainer employed under Charles Howard, a broken industrialist who has lost his young son. Tom Smith realizes what the horse has been put through to and begins to heal it and make it start believing in itself. Enters Red Pollard, a loser jockey employed under Charles Howard too. The story then moves on to the relationship that Red Pollard and the horse share, the way they start to heal each other and what common things they find between themselves. Beautifully written and amazingly uplifting! ...more This was, truly, \"fast-paced non-fiction.\" This book galloped along with all the speed of the horse it followed, which I find rare for books that simply relate a true story. Hillenbrand did a fantastic job giving a straightforward account of the history and background of Seabiscuit and the people around him, yet not once did she stoop to sounding like a pedantic authority on the subject. This book had all the tone and pace of great novels I've read, but it was so interesting to keep reminding my This was, truly, \"fast-paced non-fiction.\" This book galloped along with all the speed of the horse it followed, which I find rare for books that simply relate a true story. Hillenbrand did a fantastic job giving a straightforward account of the history and background of Seabiscuit and the people around him, yet not once did she stoop to sounding like a pedantic authority on the subject. This book had all the tone and pace of great novels I've read, but it was so interesting to keep reminding myself that it actually happened! If you enjoyed the movie, you will definitely enjoy the book. The movie did a great job capturing what Hillenbrand did, with applaudingly similar style, but it couldn't have captured all the depth and side-stories that the book offered. I was initially worried that I would be forced to superimpose the faces from the movie onto the characters I was reading about, but the deftly-placed pictures in the book helped me get over that quickly. All in all, a fantastic book. Highly recommended. ...more okay, so can I admit that I was weeping at the open of this book? I know, it is stupid. I love animals, and horses in particular, way too much. However, this book was opened so powerfully, I don't know if I can blame my love of animals for my tears this time around. Very well written for pleasure reading and captures the fanfare that was really a part of this horse. I let my grandmother tell me the whole story of how the world was divided as much by the rivalries between fans of Seabiscuit and fa okay, so can I admit that I was weeping at the open of this book? I know, it is stupid. I love animals, and horses in particular, way too much. However, this book was opened so powerfully, I don't know if I can blame my love of animals for my tears this time around. Very well written for pleasure reading and captures the fanfare that was really a part of this horse. I let my grandmother tell me the whole story of how the world was divided as much by the rivalries between fans of Seabiscuit and fans of War Admiral. It was definately the biggest sport on radio at the time. What a nice thing to get to share with her before she passed on the following year! ...more Seabiscuit foi um dos melhores cavalos de corrida de sempre e uma lenda do desporto equestre. Eu sou uma amante de cavalos, animais absolutamente not\u00e1veis com os quais sempre tive oportunidade de conviver desde pequena, pelo que foi com absoluto deleite que li a hist\u00f3ria deste cavalo fenomenal, contada magistralmente por <---A>Laura Hillenbrand</---A>. \"Seabiscuit, an American Legend\" apresenta um trabalho de pesquisa impressionante, aliado a uma escrita \u00edmpar e uma capacidade para contar hist\u00f3rias digna de Seabiscuit foi um dos melhores cavalos de corrida de sempre e uma lenda do desporto equestre. Eu sou uma amante de cavalos, animais absolutamente not\u00e1veis com os quais sempre tive oportunidade de conviver desde pequena, pelo que foi com absoluto deleite que li a hist\u00f3ria deste cavalo fenomenal, contada magistralmente por Laura Hillenbrand. \"Seabiscuit, an American Legend\" apresenta um trabalho de pesquisa impressionante, aliado a uma escrita \u00edmpar e uma capacidade para contar hist\u00f3rias digna de registo. Para al\u00e9m do percurso do cavalo, Hillenbrand foca-se igualmente nos v\u00e1rios intervenientes que contribuiram para o sucesso incompar\u00e1vel de Seabiscuit, como Howard, o dono, Tom Smith, o treinador e primeiro a acreditar naquele cavalo neur\u00f3tico de pernas tortas, o Jockey Red Pollard e at\u00e9 George Woolf, que montou Seabiscuit durante a longa les\u00e3o de Pollard, includive na vit\u00f3ria contra War Admiral (outro cavalo fora de s\u00e9rie), que surpreendeu o mundo em 1938. Eu fiquei bastante surpreendida e agradada com a qualidade da escrita de Hillenbrand, bem como com a sua capacidade de apresentar dados e factos, humanizar figuras hist\u00f3ricas e criar ambientes \u00fanicos, como se o leitor estivesse a ser transportado para o in\u00edcio do s\u00e9culo XX. A contextualiza\u00e7\u00e3o das diversas situa\u00e7\u00f5es e eventos foi sempre muito bem feita e todas as informa\u00e7\u00f5es, cita\u00e7\u00f5es e detalhes importantes foram devidamente assinalados no texto e explicados em anexo. Surpreende-me e choca-me que Seabiscuit ainda n\u00e3o tenha sido publicado em Portugal. \u00c9 uma obra fant\u00e1stica que regista e imortaliza a vida de um cavalo inigual\u00e1vel. ...more The wonderfully talented Laura Hillenbrand makes history come alive in this page turning account of the life and times of one of thoroughbreds greatest 4 legged athletes. After setting the depression era stage, the author examines the back-stories of Seabiscuit's charismatic owners; Charles and Marcella Howard, the enigmatic and gifted trainer Tom Smith, the very talented but hard luck jockey, Red Pollard and of course the protagonist, Seabiscuit. Where I might differ in the universally effusive The wonderfully talented Laura Hillenbrand makes history come alive in this page turning account of the life and times of one of thoroughbreds greatest 4 legged athletes. After setting the depression era stage, the author examines the back-stories of Seabiscuit's charismatic owners; Charles and Marcella Howard, the enigmatic and gifted trainer Tom Smith, the very talented but hard luck jockey, Red Pollard and of course the protagonist, Seabiscuit. Where I might differ in the universally effusive praise of this fine book, concerns what I thought was overkill on the details of each race, especially the 1938 match race against the Eastern thoroughbred champion, War Admiral. Every conceivable detail was researched and covered in chapter sized length in the authors account of the events surrounding this monumental race and it was truly fascinating - up to a point. By that I mean, I've always like James Bond movies and have seen them all numerous times over the years. A new Daniel Craig/ Bond movie will be released this fall and I'll see it the first week because what's important to me is the finished product, not the myriad details of how the movie was made. As an old History major I've always thought it more important to write readable history than to get caught up in the weeds trying to use use every factoid one's research uncovers but hey, that just me. ...more What an amazing story! I only regret that I didn't live in the time of Seabiscuit's glory! I fell in love with this horse! I have recently taken riding lessons (English)and this story was more meaningful because of the little experience I have had with horses. I have always loved this animal since my youth so reading a \"horse\" book sounded like fun. Being a true story made it a remarkable read! I liked the way it was written (by someone who knows horses inside and out). Very beautiful and descri What an amazing story! I only regret that I didn't live in the time of Seabiscuit's glory! I fell in love with this horse! I have recently taken riding lessons (English)and this story was more meaningful because of the little experience I have had with horses. I have always loved this animal since my youth so reading a \"horse\" book sounded like fun. Being a true story made it a remarkable read! I liked the way it was written (by someone who knows horses inside and out). Very beautiful and descriptive. I enjoyed all the old photographs throughout the book that put you there in 1936. I learned about the early automobile days in SF and the fact that racing was huge in the early 20th century. I grew up in Nor Cal and appreciated the different, familiar towns, roads, and history. (Willits, CA)I was reminded of the hard life of the jockey, the pressure to loose weight before a race, their poverty, the extreme athletic expectations. I loved each character and felt for them so much that I cried at the end! The ability of an author to emotionally link the reader to the characters in such a way is always amazing to me! An inspiring story that will prove to you that no matter what odds are against you, if you want something bad enough, it can be yours! What looked very flawed on the outside had power and drive that won the world over! Never underestimate the under dog! ...more Just arrived from USA through BM. Since I absolutely loved Unbroken , I decided to read LH's famous book after have watched the movie based on this book a long time ago. The main characters, Charles Howard, Red Pollard and Tom Smith are entwined into Seabiscuit's career and the book shows how his life changed their own lives forever. Even if it's a non-fiction book, Hillenbrand knows how to give a true fictional character to the narrative itself, putting her own heart on it. I am looking forward for Just arrived from USA through BM. Since I absolutely loved Unbroken , I decided to read LH's famous book after have watched the movie based on this book a long time ago. The main characters, Charles Howard, Red Pollard and Tom Smith are entwined into Seabiscuit's career and the book shows how his life changed their own lives forever. Even if it's a non-fiction book, Hillenbrand knows how to give a true fictional character to the narrative itself, putting her own heart on it. I am looking forward for her third book which I hope will come pretty soon. ...more \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 I LOVE this book! I have the full novel in the commemorative pictorial, the DVD, and now the audiobook, wonderfully narrated by Campbell Scott. Ms. Hillenbrand has researched her topic well, but she brings it to the page with insight, humor and an emotional depth that make it additive. You want to find out more about these three misfits \u2013 excuse me, make that four misfits, including Seabiscuit \u2013 and find out how they won the love of a nation in the midst of the Great Depression. There is \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 I LOVE this book! I have the full novel in the commemorative pictorial, the DVD, and now the audiobook, wonderfully narrated by Campbell Scott. Ms. Hillenbrand has researched her topic well, but she brings it to the page with insight, humor and an emotional depth that make it additive. You want to find out more about these three misfits \u2013 excuse me, make that four misfits, including Seabiscuit \u2013 and find out how they won the love of a nation in the midst of the Great Depression. There is never anything dull and tedious presented here and it is full of surprises. ...more Seabiscuit. An American Legend. I think the only reason I even know the horse's name is because of the movie they filmed a few years ago. I'm obviously not a horse-racing fan, right? I don't even remember why I grabbed this at a library book sale. A friend here on GR must have given it a good review. But I am so glad I read this. I've gotten much better about reading non-fiction over the past six months, but I was amazed at what a page-turner this was for me. I've been reading non-fiction before Seabiscuit. An American Legend. I think the only reason I even know the horse's name is because of the movie they filmed a few years ago. I'm obviously not a horse-racing fan, right? I don't even remember why I grabbed this at a library book sale. A friend here on GR must have given it a good review. But I am so glad I read this. I've gotten much better about reading non-fiction over the past six months, but I was amazed at what a page-turner this was for me. I've been reading non-fiction before bed, thinking that would be a good time to squeeze it in because I wouldn't have to worry too much about getting caught up in the story and staying up all night. Bad move with this book. I was doing the \"one more chapter\" thing quite a bit. It was just a perfect mix of an underdog story and excellent writing. Hillenbrand has a gift for putting you right into the action. Not knowing if Seabiscuit was going to win or lose any given race, my stomach would knot up and I would start reading faster as he came out of the gates. I was worried about injuries. I was furious with jockeys whom I thought were cheating. My heart pounded as Seabiscuit came down the home stretch and I read ahead to find out if he pulled it off this time. What the heck has happened to me?!? Where did the woman who thought \"Non-fiction is boring\" go? This horse and his team are truly all-American legends. It seems that we love underdog stories and Seabiscuit, owner Charles Howard, trainer Tom Smith, and jockey Red Pollard were all underdogs at some point. Reading about their struggles and triumphs and, yes, even failures, was inspiring. If they can pull off something like this, why can't you or I? I loved reading about Tom Smith's unending feud with the press. I worried over Pollard, the injury-prone, Shakespeare-quoting jockey. Seabiscuit's quirks amused me to no end--unless he was messing around with another horse as the finish line approached. Then I just wanted to yell at him, \"Stop horsing around! Just finish the race!\" (Sorry. I couldn't resist.) Now that I've finished it, I've caught myself spouting off some random Seabiscuit trivia to my husband. \"Oh, did you know that Seabiscuit hated to run on mud?\" The Belmont Stakes was on tv. The track looked muddy. It seemed relevant. There was more, but I'll keep my own quirks to myself. The whole match race thing with War Admiral had me a nervous wreck! I just watched the real race on YouTube and, wow! It gave me goosebumps! It was funny to see Seabiscuit's awkward stride after reading so much about it and to know about all the prep work and psychology that went into that race. I just loved this book, and I can't say enough about it. So before I end up giving you a page-by-page summary and my reactions, just do us both a favor and go read it. ...more I have seen, and loved, the movie based on this book several times, and as I tend to enjoy non-fiction reads during the summer, decided to dive in. I listened to the audiobook which is wonderfully narrated by George Newbern. This is narrative non-fiction at its best. I loved everything about this story. The characters, both human and horse, are broken but not out. The pacing of the story is excellent, and there were moments that I was on tenterhooks waiting to see what would happen next. Given th I have seen, and loved, the movie based on this book several times, and as I tend to enjoy non-fiction reads during the summer, decided to dive in. I listened to the audiobook which is wonderfully narrated by George Newbern. This is narrative non-fiction at its best. I loved everything about this story. The characters, both human and horse, are broken but not out. The pacing of the story is excellent, and there were moments that I was on tenterhooks waiting to see what would happen next. Given that I already knew the outlines of the story and how it would end, that is some dang great writing. The book is so much better than the movie, in that it fleshes out the story of the characters, and captures a sense of place and time in America really well. I even learned that The Biscuit and I have some things in common: we both like to eat and take long naps. The one thing I did miss out on with the audio, are the photos in the book. Well, Google to the rescue. And if you have yet to see it, go now and and watch the video of the matched race between Seabiscuit and War Admiral and see if you don't get choked up. I listened to this story on long walks, and found my pace picking up each time Seabiscuit was racing. Even if you are not interested in horses, or horse racing, I would highly recommend this one. ...more I just started this book. On page one of the prologue, I had the chilling and paranoid feeling that I had better not read it yet because it was going to be one of the best horse books I could ever read (and now that I've read Horse Heaven, after this book, all horse books must only be downhill, it seems to me right now), and about the very best horse who has ever lived. So I should save it, HOARD it, like a hamster, put off the pleasure and savour its expectation. However, I am still reading it. A I just started this book. On page one of the prologue, I had the chilling and paranoid feeling that I had better not read it yet because it was going to be one of the best horse books I could ever read (and now that I've read Horse Heaven, after this book, all horse books must only be downhill, it seems to me right now), and about the very best horse who has ever lived. So I should save it, HOARD it, like a hamster, put off the pleasure and savour its expectation. However, I am still reading it. Also, a full-fledged fantasy came into being for me around page ten, when I was reading about the brilliant young automobile magnate who would one day own Seabiscuit. This fantasy was actually conceived, I think, while reading one of these new reader-book-club-guide-author-P.S-things that are so in vogue now, at the end of the book I finished yesterday, The All True Travels and Adventures of Lydie Newton. TATTAAOLN, by the same author as Horse Heaven, was written before it, but has a couple horses in it, so it was like one could see how Jane Smiley must have loved writing those few little horse scenes, and even a page-long horse race, in the earlier book and then that launched her into Horse Heaven, which I imagine to have been written in a state of horsey ecstasy. Anyway, in the PS, she talks about how important it is to her to live in the present as much as possible - appreciate the joy in writing, in her children and in her horses. And she talks about how being around horses necessitates being absolutely in the present moment because they are physically dangerous animals. I guess that all sat in my mind and then while sitting on this shaded, flowery veranda today, reading about this businessman who was buying himself a ranch and who was soon going to care about horses and horse-racing, I suddenly thought, \"I want to own horses!\" That's all. That's my fantasy. I have never ever had it before. I am not a horsewoman but maybe inside I am, and I just don't know it yet. Also, in this fantasy, I have a pet crow. ...more I absolutely loved this book. Hillenbrand's pacing and style draw's the reader in. Her attention to detail is captivating from the very first page. This is a book teeming with interesting and fascinating characters, not the least of which is Seabiscuit himself. As I read this book, I grew to love this magnificent animal; his quirky and mischievous personality, his gluttonous eating habits, his inner peace and serenity through tumultuous periods and, most of all, his unrelenting courage against a I absolutely loved this book. Hillenbrand's pacing and style draw's the reader in. Her attention to detail is captivating from the very first page. This is a book teeming with interesting and fascinating characters, not the least of which is Seabiscuit himself. As I read this book, I grew to love this magnificent animal; his quirky and mischievous personality, his gluttonous eating habits, his inner peace and serenity through tumultuous periods and, most of all, his unrelenting courage against all odds in the heat of \"battle.\" Such a noble beast! And of course, the supporting cast is equally engaging. I was deeply moved by the story of the flawed and irrepressible jockey, Red Pollard; endlessly amused by the antics of the kindly yet irascible trainer Tom Smith; and felt like I was in the \"owner's box\" with the dedicated and generous owner Charles Howard and his wife Marcela, sharing in the thrills and heartbreaks of Seabiscuit's legendary exploits. On top of the fantastic characterization, Hillenbrand offers up not one, but two exciting climaxes(!), both of which left me absolutely breathless and spellbound: Seabiscuit's defining race with the magnificent War Admiral; and Red Pollard's race for redemption and final great victory at the 1940 Santa Anita Handicap. This is a beautifully crafted book that, is a \"can't miss\" for just about anyone! ...more Really nice surprise. I'm not a betting person nor interested in horses. I was also under the impression this was a novel on which the movie was based. I was wrong. This is a straight history. It begins at the turn of the century and paints a vivid picture of the world at the time. From the San Fransisco Earthquake to the Great Depression, Hillenbrand draws a line and tells not merely the story of a great racing horse, but expresses the meaning of him life in the context of his times. Not at all Really nice surprise. I'm not a betting person nor interested in horses. I was also under the impression this was a novel on which the movie was based. I was wrong. This is a straight history. It begins at the turn of the century and paints a vivid picture of the world at the time. From the San Fransisco Earthquake to the Great Depression, Hillenbrand draws a line and tells not merely the story of a great racing horse, but expresses the meaning of him life in the context of his times. Not at all what I expected and very, very good. I am a fan of Simon Winchester, Bill Bryson, Jon Krakauer... generally, journalists and scholars who take everything from the mundane to the spectacular and make a personal, emotional connection that is strangely compelling. Jonathan Harr's Lost Painting is in this category as well. Good history. ...more Such a diversity of emotions I felt while reading this. Although I was rather bored in the preliminary introductions of horse and the men around said horse, I hung on for dear life along with the jockies during the detailed descriptions of the races. There are actually two climaxes to the story, two long-anticipated races in Seabiscuit's career. I felt chills and tears in my eyes during these perfectly-described, history-making events. I wish I had read Seabscuit's story before I and a group of Such a diversity of emotions I felt while reading this. Although I was rather bored in the preliminary introductions of horse and the men around said horse, I hung on for dear life along with the jockies during the detailed descriptions of the races. There are actually two climaxes to the story, two long-anticipated races in Seabiscuit's career. I felt chills and tears in my eyes during these perfectly-described, history-making events. I wish I had read Seabscuit's story before I and a group of college friends went to the Kentucky Derby back in 1973; maybe I could have convinced our impatient driver not to make us leave to get a heads up on traffic prior to the last, most important race of that day, Secretariat's. ...more Seabiscuit has been sitting on my shelf for years because I never seemed to be in the mood to read a book about horse racing. Finally, trying to clear space, I decided it was now or never. Within the first chapter, I was hooked. The pacing is impeccable, the people (and horses) come to life, and I felt as if I were at the racetrack. The book reads like fiction, but the endnotes attest to its veracity. Now I'm trying to get my husband to read it, but he's never in the mood for a book about horse Seabiscuit has been sitting on my shelf for years because I never seemed to be in the mood to read a book about horse racing. Finally, trying to clear space, I decided it was now or never. Within the first chapter, I was hooked. The pacing is impeccable, the people (and horses) come to life, and I felt as if I were at the racetrack. The book reads like fiction, but the endnotes attest to its veracity. Now I'm trying to get my husband to read it, but he's never in the mood for a book about horse racing... After reading Seabiscuit and Unbroken, I will read absolutely anything Hillenbrand writes! ...more 4.5 stars Seabiscuit is such a great story. I loved this book. It was so well written. Laura Hillenbrand managed to capture the horse racing world in a vivid way. And that also included the lives of the trainers and the jockeys. What demanding jobs they had. I can't imagine being a jockey, because most of them had such a sad life and most were destitute. Overall, I enjoyed learning about everything this book had to offer. Wow, Laura Hillenbrand amazes me again with her detailed, historical narrative of a subject that I was not initially super interested in. I have always loved horses but this story brought the sport of horse racing and jockeying to life! I can't believe how much research she had to do to write this book, but I would highly recommend it to anyone who just likes a good read. A bit too many facts and detail at times bogged me down, but overall I am enthralled with this writer. I've had this book on my to read pile for forever. I'm not exactly sure why I kept putting it off. I've always loved horses. Used to muck stalls just for fun and still have dreams of actually owning a place with a horse or two. But I've never been into horse racing and I guess I thought I knew the story. Boy, was I wrong. This wasn't just a book about horse racing. Laura Hillenbrand brought history to life. She put together a fast paced story that made me feel like I was there. I cared about the I've had this book on my to read pile for forever. I'm not exactly sure why I kept putting it off. I've always loved horses. Used to muck stalls just for fun and still have dreams of actually owning a place with a horse or two. But I've never been into horse racing and I guess I thought I knew the story. Boy, was I wrong. This wasn't just a book about horse racing. Laura Hillenbrand brought history to life. She put together a fast paced story that made me feel like I was there. I cared about the people and I cared about the horses. I was on the edge of my seat rooting for a horse to get up or push a little further. I could feel the heart break of the losses, the electricity in the air that precedes all sporting events, and the bitter sweet taste of the victories. I could smell the hay and hear the call of the horses in the stables. It was well written and packed with information, emotion, tension, heart. The jockeys and horses were amazing athletes. I loved this book so much. So much! ...more 4  stars. Book was good but not as great as the subject matter. Audiobook narrator was average. This is a biography of a race horse. There are a lot of details and facts: names of races, dates, times, speeds, and info about other horses and people. At times it was like a text book. But that\u2019s ok. I want facts. During specific races it was exciting. I recently read Boys in the Boat about a rowing crew. That book was more exciting and engaging all the way through. Probably because BITB was about hu 4 \u00bd stars. Book was good but not as great as the subject matter. Audiobook narrator was average. This is a biography of a race horse. There are a lot of details and facts: names of races, dates, times, speeds, and info about other horses and people. At times it was like a text book. But that\u2019s ok. I want facts. During specific races it was exciting. I recently read Boys in the Boat about a rowing crew. That book was more exciting and engaging all the way through. Probably because BITB was about humans, and the author could get more into their lives, their thoughts, their emotions. The most intriguing part about Seabiscuit was his cocky arrogance. He wanted to humiliate other horses. Also, he did not look elegant. He had short legs, knobby knees, and a stocky body. Seabiscuit is a great story, a great subject. But I don\u2019t feel the book is great, which is why I\u2019m rounding to 4. But it was very good. Other characters include the owner Charles Howard, the trainer Tom Smith, and two jockeys Red Pollard and George Woolf. I was amazed and so sad at what I learned about jockeys. The things they did to keep their weight down: eating tape worms and being constantly dehydrated with awful consequences to their health. One guy would put lettuce on a windowsill to dry out excess water before he ate it. Red\u2019s life was a sad story. The physical book has pictures. I\u2019m disappointed that the author did not include a pdf file of pictures to go with the audiobook. Other authors do. AUDIOBOOK NARRATOR: George Newbern was ok. But at times I felt like he was reading like a TV news anchor instead of acting/narrating. But part of it could be the material \u2013 a lot of facts. DATA: Narrative mode: 3rd person. Unabridged audiobook length: 13 hrs and 13 mins. Swearing language: none other than the f-word used once. Sexual content: none. Setting: mostly the 1930's U.S. Book copyright: 2001. Genre: biography, sports history. ...more I love horse racing. I do not know why I am so enamored with it and I certainly do not follow it year round, but for the few months of the Triple Crown I cannot get enough. I research the horses, I research the jockeys, I read about previous winners, trainers, owners, anything. That is a long way to say that I knew I would love this book. There is no way that I wouldn't. What I wasn't prepared for his how much I was completely captivated by Seabiscuit's story. Seabiscuit was an amazing horse. But I love horse racing. I do not know why I am so enamored with it and I certainly do not follow it year round, but for the few months of the Triple Crown I cannot get enough. I research the horses, I research the jockeys, I read about previous winners, trainers, owners, anything. That is a long way to say that I knew I would love this book. There is no way that I wouldn't. What I wasn't prepared for his how much I was completely captivated by Seabiscuit's story. Seabiscuit was an amazing horse. But, more than that, he was a symbol to American's during the Great Depression that an underdog could overcome all odds to win. His jockey, Red Pollard, was a symbol that a guy with nothing could find his niche and rise to greatness. Hillenbrand introduces us to these two horse racing icons as well as Seabiscuit's owner, Charles Howard, and trainer, Tom Smith. She beautifully sets the stage with the history of horse racing in California, how each of the main players--including Seabiscuit--ended up at the same place at the same time to form a team, and she takes us through Seabiscuit's racing career. I know how Seabiscuit's races turned out, I researched them a lot several years ago when the movie with Toby McGuire came out, and yet I was on the edge of my seat for every race described. I literally cried when Seabiscuit didn't win, smiled when he did, and was amazed at his comebacks. I listened to this on audio and the narrator was very good. I liked that his reading the racing scenes felt like an old-timey radio broadcaster was announcing it. As much as I loved it, I don't think I would recommend it to people who are not at least interested in horse racing. There was a lot of description of the races and that could easily get redundant even if the non-racing parts of the story were also brilliant. Excellent choice for this month's tag! ...more I'm going to stick with my opinion that non-fiction is another word for textbook. I was bored the whole time. I rarely not finish books, but this one was a waste of time. I told myself to try to read a fourth of it but I gave up before I got there. I can't do non-fiction. And I couldn't care less about horses, especially if they're named Seabiscuit. I also disliked the movie Black Beauty. That should have been a sign. (Rating: 1 star) UPDATE: I'm not a quitter. I'm going to finish this book of th I'm going to stick with my opinion that non-fiction is another word for textbook. I was bored the whole time. I rarely not finish books, but this one was a waste of time. I told myself to try to read a fourth of it but I gave up before I got there. I can't do non-fiction. And I couldn't care less about horses, especially if they're named Seabiscuit. I also disliked the movie Black Beauty. That should have been a sign. (Rating: 1 star) UPDATE: I'm not a quitter. I'm going to finish this book of the devil if it's the last thing I ever do! UPDATE: I finished it! I'm so darn proud of myself. I didn't want to quit and my sister-in-law appealed to my extremely competitive side when she told me she was going to be the only one not defeated by books. That did it for me. I still can't believe that after giving the book a chance and getting used to the textbook writing (yes, that opinion hasn't changed) I actually ended up caring a little. Chapter 5 was the chapter than turned it all around for me. I was so interested in how jockeys torture their bodies to make weight and that chapter just spoke to me. Plus, that was when I fell in love with Red Pollard. I think the fact that I even finished the book at all was because I wanted to know more about him. His story was the one that mattered to me, so much that I went back to Chapter 4 and re-read it, as opposed to skimmed it, this time. I feel like I never cared enough about Seabiscuit. Yeah, he was this awesome horse, I guess. But what makes a book for me is the people, and Red Pollard was just the right person to get me through it. So, I take back my \"waste of time\" comment. I still don't think it was the best book ever and I doubt I'll read it again, but I liked it enough to finish it. That counts for me. ...more In March, 2012, I watched again as I did in 2003, the movie Seabiscuit. For some reason I meant more to me than nine years ago. I order Laura Hillenbrand's wonderful book Seabiscuit Americn Legend and read with great delight. My interest in the story is wound up with my family history. My grand father, James Tracey Flaherty, if he wasn't working, he was going to the race track. The story of Seabiscuit reached its height with the November, 1938 race against War Admiraol, the winner of the Triple In March, 2012, I watched again as I did in 2003, the movie Seabiscuit. For some reason I meant more to me than nine years ago. I order Laura Hillenbrand's wonderful book Seabiscuit Americn Legend and read with great delight. My interest in the story is wound up with my family history. My grand father, James Tracey Flaherty, if he wasn't working, he was going to the race track. The story of Seabiscuit reached its height with the November, 1938 race against War Admiraol, the winner of the Triple Crown in 1937 and was the Horse of the Year. The ungaily, knocked kneed Seabiscuit challenged the \"Blue Blood\" and graceful lines War Admiral. The story(non-fiction) set in the depression years of the 1930s came together from the experiences of a self made millionaire, Charles Howard, Tom Smith, a relic of the once open range who broke in Mustangs around Colorado, and the Red Pollard, the jockey. Their chemistry help to make Seabisuit one of the greatest horses in race track history. Along the way to Seabiscuit's rise, we also learn the story of how rough life was for the jockey Red Pollard and we also see that life was tough for Americans 75 years ago. What is certain Laura Hillenbrand tells us how Seabiscuit's victory over War Admiral reflected America's hopes and dreams. As the author wrote that she felt she was on a horse in the race, so did I as a reader. And when I look at my photographs of my grand father at the race track, I know how much horse racing meant to him and to many Americans. This is a great read and it truly gives us a feel for the American Spirit! ...more I thought this book to be fast paced, well written, and an adventure to be followed. Ms Hillenbrand was able to make on feel the pathos, and emotional upheaval that all the characters went through in order to bring Seabiscuit to his full potential. Writing of the jockeys and their lives as such, was a lesson to me. The way in which they needed to keep their weight down was appalling. I loved all the characters as they interacted with each other and the horses. Red Pollard was certainly a man who I thought this book to be fast paced, well written, and an adventure to be followed. Ms Hillenbrand was able to make on feel the pathos, and emotional upheaval that all the characters went through in order to bring Seabiscuit to his full potential. Writing of the jockeys and their lives as such, was a lesson to me. The way in which they needed to keep their weight down was appalling. I loved all the characters as they interacted with each other and the horses. Red Pollard was certainly a man who had his ups and downs in life. He was sure of himself as well as being sure that Seabiscuit was a horse to be reckoned with. Mr Howard was a grand big man. He enjoyed the fruits of his labor and came to respect not only his jockeys but the man who trained his horses as well. Tom Smith, another horse loving man, was surely an inspiration to all. He was a no nonsense man who knew his job and knew his horse. Of course into this mix comes this indomitable horse. He was nothing to look at, tended to be overweight, loved to eat and sleep, but in this case, looks were deceiving. He became one of the greatest racehorses ever breaking numerous track records and winning races a plenty. This was a great story of indomitable courage on all sides. Who couldn't feel for man and horse as they struggled to be the best and be remembered in the annals of racing? The story is inspirational and the people flocked to this story while it was in the making. ...more I cannot rave about this book enough (at least in my own mind). Not wanting to waste your time with my unskilled rants, suffice it to say that this is a well-written account of the historic run of Seabiscuit the racehorse. Seabiscuit is an underdog story about a beloved animal and the jockeys who rode him, and the man who owned and had faith him. I know little about horses or horse racing, but this book was easy to read and it kept my attention like few books do. A fine first effort by Laura Hil I cannot rave about this book enough (at least in my own mind). Not wanting to waste your time with my unskilled rants, suffice it to say that this is a well-written account of the historic run of Seabiscuit the racehorse. Seabiscuit is an underdog story about a beloved animal and the jockeys who rode him, and the man who owned and had faith him. I know little about horses or horse racing, but this book was easy to read and it kept my attention like few books do. A fine first effort by Laura Hillenbrand, from whom I expect and hope to read more in the future. I started reading this at my uncle's cottage because I forgot to bring my own book for vacation. I couldn't finish it in the time I had, but was so hooked by the time I had to go home that I immediately reserved it at my local library and finished it shortly thereafter. This book is well worth your time, if not for the story, for the insight into a subject that you may not know much about and a lifestyle that you probably do not share with those who live it. Highly recommended! ...more I learned a lot about horse racing from this book. The author did an extraordinary job of writing the details of every aspect of the trials and successes of this horse and everyone around him even though the book was written 60 years after the events occurred. I learned that horses are very intelligent and each one has its own personality. I also learned that being a jockey is a very dangerous and generally a low paying job. I also learned how important a good horse trainer is in the success of I learned a lot about horse racing from this book. The author did an extraordinary job of writing the details of every aspect of the trials and successes of this horse and everyone around him even though the book was written 60 years after the events occurred. I learned that horses are very intelligent and each one has its own personality. I also learned that being a jockey is a very dangerous and generally a low paying job. I also learned how important a good horse trainer is in the success of a horse. Lastly, I learned how special a horse like Seabiscuit was. Like a person, his talents and personality, given to him by God, were truly a gift. Seabiscuit reunited the entire country in 1940, at the end of one of American's toughest times. We currently need something to unite our country. ...more I wouldn't give away this book for love nor money. Seabiscuit became a hero of mine through Ms. Hildebrand's eyes. Seabiscuit was a race horse down on his luck until a group of men, also going through hard times saw his potential and made him and star--and themselves in the process. And not only for them is Seabiscuit an icon but for a generation of Americans who were also hard on their luck because of the depression. Each man who had an interest in Seabiscuit from owner, Charles Howard, Trainer I wouldn't give away this book for love nor money. Seabiscuit became a hero of mine through Ms. Hildebrand's eyes. Seabiscuit was a race horse down on his luck until a group of men, also going through hard times saw his potential and made him and star--and themselves in the process. And not only for them is Seabiscuit an icon but for a generation of Americans who were also hard on their luck because of the depression. Each man who had an interest in Seabiscuit from owner, Charles Howard, Trainer Tom Smith and Jockey Red Pollard found their way--their niche and their lives through this little horse. And America found their way through them. It's a riviting tale of America during the depression era and a little horse who didn't know he wasn't supposed to be able to do what he did. America followed and found themselves uplifted for the experience. ...more I relish the rarity of a book that can wholly tame my restlessness and hold me in the palm of its hand, as Laura Hillenbrand does with \"Seabiscuit\" about a little race horse who enthralled the nation, amidst the Great Depression. Burrowed beneath a mound of blankets this morning, as I entered a passage recanting one of Seabiscuit's wildly attended races, I felt my temperature spike to feverish heights and my heart pound. What is greater than a book that makes you feel like your really there, so I relish the rarity of a book that can wholly tame my restlessness and hold me in the palm of its hand, as Laura Hillenbrand does with \"Seabiscuit\" about a little race horse who enthralled the nation, amidst the Great Depression. Burrowed beneath a mound of blankets this morning, as I entered a passage recanting one of Seabiscuit's wildly attended races, I felt my temperature spike to feverish heights and my heart pound. What is greater than a book that makes you feel like your really there, so that the phone ringing or the hum of a motorcycle zipping by, should startle you to wonder for a moment, where you are and what time it is, and to hell, with the leftover noodles nearly fossilized to the dishes you abandoned in the sink, after dinner, you have a book to read! ...more<---C>Laura Hillenbrand</---C><+++>Seabiscuit: An American Legend</+++>", "Title": "Seabiscuit: An American Legend"},
