{"Comments": "\u201cWhen you mess with one part of a person\u2019s life, you\u2019re messing with their entire life.<---F> Everything</---F>. . . affects everything.\u201d Sometimes it's hard to see why other people might dislike a book you enjoy, but with <+++>Thirteen Reasons Why</+++> , I can understand it perfectly. It is told from the perspective of Clay, but is mostly about the life of Hannah - a girl who recently killed herself. After her death, Clay receives a set of cassette tapes on which Hannah explains the thirteen reasons why she decided to \u201cWhen you mess with one part of a person\u2019s life, you\u2019re messing with their entire life. Everything. . . affects everything.\u201d Sometimes it's hard to see why other people might dislike a book you enjoy, but with <+++>Thirteen Reasons Why</+++> , I can understand it perfectly. It is told from the perspective of Clay, but is mostly about the life of Hannah - a girl who recently killed herself. After her death, Clay receives a set of cassette tapes on which Hannah explains the thirteen reasons why she decided to kill herself. And he is one of them. It is extremely compelling - unputdownable almost - but a problem many readers have is that the book relies on your sympathy for Hannah to effectively relay its message,<---M> and yet Hannah comes off as bratty</---M>, selfish and ofttimes over-sensitive. Many of her \"reasons\" are things that everyone has experienced at some point and people generally file those under \"bad days\" and definitely don't kill themselves because of it. But actually, I completely understood and sympathized with Hannah . As a suicide survivor, I even related to her at times. And, though I don't attempt to speak for everyone, I feel in a position to attest that there can be something bratty and selfish about suicide. I think this book captured a certain feeling very well and I disagree with those who thought Hannah wasn't realistically suicidal. It's true that nobody kills themselves because they get stood up, and nobody kills themselves because some douche groped their ass, and nobody kills themselves because of a mean rumour... but each of these is a little bit more added to the weight that is crushing down on someone . People like to look for clear-cut reasons that make sense. They want Hannah to give a good reason why she killed herself. But, in reality, it so rarely is one big reason you can point to. Most of the time, the little things all build up, day after day, one small thing after another, until the little reasons all blend into a single feeling of hopelessness. That is what this book is about. And it's also about taking responsibility for your actions and understanding how your small selfish acts can affect someone else. I did not have an issue believing in or finding sympathy for Hannah. My only real issue with this book was Clay, the revelation about him, and the way he viewed the truth about Hannah. Clay changes his mind about Hannah based on what he hears and decides she did not deserve to be slut-shamed because the rumours weren't true. But - would she have deserved the treatment any more if she had done what the rumours said? \"No\" is the answer. And I wish the book had taken the opportunity to address that. But otherwise, this is a creative pageturner, even if it seems a bit strange that cassette tapes were being used in 2007. I liked it a lot and it really made me think. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Pinterest ...more WARNING: I did not like this book. If you did, and would hate it if someone (me) ranted and bitched about it, then DO NOT READ THIS REVIEW. REVIEW: I don't know why this book is so popular. And I honestly don't know what all the rave is about. I heard so many great things about this novel, that's why I read it. While this was a good book, well written and all\u2026the plot was just not good enough\u2014no, the reasons leading to Hannah Baker killing herself were not believable enough for me. I mean sure, t WARNING: I did not like this book. If you did, and would hate it if someone (me) ranted and bitched about it, then DO NOT READ THIS REVIEW. REVIEW: I don't know why this book is so popular. And I honestly don't know what all the rave is about. I heard so many great things about this novel, that's why I read it. While this was a good book, well written and all\u2026the plot was just not good enough\u2014no, the reasons leading to Hannah Baker killing herself were not believable enough for me. I mean sure, they did some horrible things to her in high school, that doesn't mean you should just go off and commit suicide. As far as I'm concerned, those kinds of situations happen to everyone. And I don't believe for one second that no one noticed that she wanted to commit suicide. What about her haircut? Didn't the author mention that the teacher passed out a flyer called \"The Warning Signs of a Suicidal Individual?\" And wasn't there \"A sudden change in appearance\" on top of the list? What about \"Giving away possessions?\" Didn't they discuss suicide in the same class? Didn't Hannah leave an anonymous note telling the teacher that? After she told Mr. Porter? And he didn't stop her? Come on, they couldn't have been that dumb! Hannah, above all, just sounded whiny. And I just couldn't sympathize with her character. And committing suicide and then blaming people for it is just a stupid excuse for killing herself. She was the one that decided to kill herself, not them\u2014not anyone. She just needed someone to blame. And poor Clay! If Clay wasn't one of the reasons Hannah killed herself, then why put him through the agony? Why give him the tapes? She could've just written him a letter. And Tony! Hannah put even the ones that had nothing to do with her in pain. For example: what did Tony do to her? Because I know he was hurting, too. He felt helpless because he couldn't have saved her. It was also very difficult and confusing to keep up with what Clay and Hannah said/thought. One second I'm reading in Clay's point of view, the next Hannah's. And sometimes I had to reread a whole paragraph because I got the POV wrong in my head. Also, I think suicide is a very serious issue so I didn't really buy <---A>Jay Asher</---A>'s portrayal of Hannah's feelings. If someone wanted to commit suicide, their emotion had to be deeper, stronger than just hatred and petty resentment for having a bad reputation in High School. Therefore, I thought Hannah's emotions weren't very serious, even childish and overly dramatic at times. And after finishing the books I was like, \"seriously?! That's why she killed herself?!\" I honestly felt like Asher was making fun of the teens who have been through terrible things in their life and are still trying to stay strong after everything they've been through. This was like telling them, \"what the heck, end your life if you're so miserable.\" UPDATE : Just found out this is going to be a movie. Starring Selena Gomez. Also, if you want to know more about Hannah's reasons, read message 6 . ...more I figured this deserved a real review. I'm a bipolar chick. I'm a girl who has struggled with suicidal thoughts since she was nine years old at the very latest. And I just do not buy 13RW's representation of a suicidal girl. The very premise of the book is flawed to me; you don't kill yourself for REASONS, you kill yourself because there is a bug in your brain gnawing at you and sucking out any valuable thought you've ever had, and I never saw that kind of bug in Hannah. I saw a girl who killed h I figured this deserved a real review. I'm a bipolar chick. I'm a girl who has struggled with suicidal thoughts since she was nine years old at the very latest. And I just do not buy 13RW's representation of a suicidal girl. The very premise of the book is flawed to me; you don't kill yourself for REASONS, you kill yourself because there is a bug in your brain gnawing at you and sucking out any valuable thought you've ever had, and I never saw that kind of bug in Hannah. I saw a girl who killed herself because boys were mean to her, and I think that if you reversed the sexes and made it a boy who killed himself for Hannah's reasons, no one would have bought it. It's a symptom of a larger epidemic you see all the times in discussions of girls with mental illness. Boys are legitimately fucked up and have genuine struggles with mental health, but girls are hysterical. Hannah's depression is entirely circumstantial, as is her suicide, and I just do not buy it. Not to mention I think it's a complete cop-out to have Clay be the only guy on the list who didn't fuck her up. Of COURSE the narrator didn't screw up, right? It was compelling, I'll give it that. I read it in one night about five years ago. ...more I'm one of the very few people who strongly disliked Thirteen Reasons Why, so maybe I should explain to you why. I hate Thirteen Reasons Why. And here\u2019s why. Most of all, it glamorises suicide. I'm putting this at the top because I can't believe I missed it in my original review. And this is a controversial point, because most of my Goodreads friends, whose opinions I would hold up as gospel, loved this book for its realistic and harrowing portrayal of teen suicide. This book is one big glamorous m I'm one of the very few people who strongly disliked Thirteen Reasons Why, so maybe I should explain to you why. I hate Thirteen Reasons Why. And here\u2019s why. Most of all, it glamorises suicide. I'm putting this at the top because I can't believe I missed it in my original review. And this is a controversial point, because most of my Goodreads friends, whose opinions I would hold up as gospel, loved this book for its realistic and harrowing portrayal of teen suicide. This book is one big glamorous monument to Hannah's suicide. To me, it feeds the myths that a lot of teens hold about suicide, rather than debunk them. Let me start off by saying that all pain is, eventually, temporary. When I think about the worst pain I've ever gone through - depression, painful and invasive surgery, grief - I thoughtn it would never end. But it did. And it always does. Yes, it will hurt like hell. Yes, it will feel as though it's never going to. But, yes, it ends. Eventually. And you have to be strong and extremely brave and honest, but there will be a day when you will look back on your worst pain and it will be a memory. That is why suicide is never the answer. So, what's the reason behind this bizarre, obvious, late-night PSA from the brilliant mind of a bat-shit crazy reader from the minority? [hahahaha]. I think this book encourages suicide. There, I said it. I know it's a strong and sweeping and dramatic statement to make. I don't think that Asher wanted it to be that way. I'm not trying to accuse Asher of actively encouraging suicide or anything. But. I have felt suicidal before. Briefly, never seriously. And yet, the thought that I don't think is that uncommon went something like this: \"When I'm dead, they'll all be sorry.\" Am I projecting my own experiences onto this book? Maybe. But, when you write about something as sensitive as suicide, I think that possibility is always out there. This book encourages that line of thinking. Let me tell you, emotionally wrecked teenagers: when you are dead, you are freaking gone . You will never grow up. You will never see your parents again. You will never have another moment that makes you feel happy or special in the here and now. You are gone forever. But life will go on for those around you. They won't be sorry when you're dead. Or maybe they will be, but you know what? They'll still be alive. They'll still have life. You won't. They'll get to move on. You never will. But Hannah Baker kills herself. And it's a dramatic, redemptive, cataclysmic act. Hannah Baker sends the tapes, and she becomes the still point of the turning world. She is Clay's Lost Lenore, the beautiful and romantic and unknowable girl who will live on forever in his memory. Hannah Baker kills herself, and she makes all those people who ever hurt her sorry . You can tell me that 13RW is all about learning to help the people around us and think about the consequences of our actions. I'm sorry, readers, I love that you guys could get something wonderful and life-affirming and heartbreaking out of this book, but I just couldn't get past the fact that it's Hannah who teaches these lessons. Hannah dies, and she becomes every romanticised suicide clich\u00e9: the omniscient, omnipresent avenging angel, the tragic heroine. And I'm sorry, but that's not how suicide works. As much as Asher pays lip service to the fact that Hannah Baker Didn't Have To Die, well, she kinda did. Because didn't her suicide work out just great for everybody? Skye might finally get some of Clay's, um, 'help.' The rapist was exposed, the peeping tom was exposed, every person who'd been mean or unfair to Hannah was exposed and made to feel so, so sorry. Everyone learns an Important Lesson, and it's all thanks to Hannah and her decision to kill herself. Hannah shows everybody . And, I'm sorry, but you never do. That's just not how it works. In many ways, Hannah is the evil twin of a Manic Pixie Dream Girl, but instead of living to breathe life into the dull main character, Hannah dies so that she can breathe life into the dull main character and, for all Asher's suicide-helpline advice, I couldn't help but see this as one great propeller of romantic and dangerous teenage myths. It\u2019s a clever concept, but it\u2019s fundamentally illogical. Each of the characters have to send it from one \u2018reason\u2019 to another; at the end of the book, Clay passes Hannah\u2019s tapes along to the next \u2018reason\u2019 on her list. Hannah herself raises the fact that she\u2019s sending it between some people who are guilty of a lesser role \u2013 e.g. (view spoiler) [when dealing with a guy who raped one of her ex-friends, she sends it to a guy who enabled the rape, rather than the rapist himself. (hide spoiler) ] That sounds pretty logical, no? But there\u2019s a couple of huge things \u2018wrong\u2019 in the context of the story, although some of them probably reflect more badly on me than they do on the story: 1)\tNot all of the tape-receivers are guilty of \u2018crimes\u2019 of the same magnitude. In fact, sometimes, there is quite a divide between some of them, e.g. we have (view spoiler) [a guy who enabled a rape and a peeping tom (hide spoiler) ] against a guy who once grabbed Hannah\u2019s ass and one (I think?) who was a friend that she grew away from. Hannah\u2019s logic is that the listeners will keep passing along because of their guilt, and they will not reveal the others\u2019 secrets because they\u2019re culpable, too. But honestly? If I were in the position of one of the guys who grabbed Hannah\u2019s ass, I\u2019d risk people finding out about that in order to spill on the (view spoiler) [rapist (hide spoiler) ] . There was a large, large gulf between the minor and the horrible. 2)\tDespite the fact that Hannah said she picked on the lesser offenders so they\u2019d pass the tape along, I still don\u2019t understand why some of them would. Guilt? Maybe. But, for the love of GOD, Justin (view spoiler) [enabled. a. rape. (hide spoiler) ] Not only is that a crime, it\u2019s also \u2013 if I have my society-sense right \u2013 one of the worst you can commit. It\u2019s entirely possible that (view spoiler) [Jessica (hide spoiler) ] could bring charges against him after that, since (view spoiler) [Clay had seen her drunk and there had been a bona fide witness in Hannah. (hide spoiler) ] I understand why it wouldn\u2019t get so far, but\u2026really? Mud sticks. There are probably still people in the world who would think \u2018I\u2019m not convinced\u2019 if there was watertight evidence showing that a man was (view spoiler) [innocent of rape (hide spoiler) ] . A lot of the characters - (view spoiler) [such as Jenny, the peeping tom or Justin (hide spoiler) ] would be taking one hell of a chance if they chose to send it along. Hannah is a horrible character. I mean this in two ways. One is that she\u2019s an evil little bitch who I\u2019d really like to punch in the face if she wasn\u2019t dead. Second is that, the way Asher writes her, she\u2019s NOT AT ALL plausible. (At least, not to me.) First, let me explain why she\u2019s a horrible little bitch. She\u2019s hiding in a closet when (view spoiler) [an ex-friend of hers gets raped. (hide spoiler) ] She does absolutely nothing to intervene. She sees it all and does nothing. Fair enough, she\u2019s too drunk/scared to intervene while it\u2019s actually happening. I can see that. That makes perfect sense to me. It doesn\u2019t necessarily make her a vile person. Would it have been better if she had intervened? Well, sure, but we\u2019re all human. I think we can all understand, to a greater or lesser degree, while she would fear for herself or just not be a fit state to stop it. (Still, she could have called the cops when it was over or something. That\u2019s not really my issue here, though. I have no issue with protagonists who do bad things. I find them really fascinating. I just have an issue with how this was handled.) However, Asher does not make ANYTHING of Hannah\u2019s guilt. To me, the last thing you should feel when you\u2019re reading about a suicide is \u201cmy God, why is this book so WAH WAH POOR LITTLE ME?\u201d I can\u2019t imagine anything worse than feeling suicidal. But Hannah never gives any indication of guilt or even SYMPATHY towards poor Jessica. All she does is whine on and on about HERSELF, how it affected HER, and yet nothing about how it affected Jessica or even how bad she feels for what she let happen to Jessica. Furthermore, Hannah then proceeds to SEND THE TAPE TO JESSICA. And denounces her throughout as one of her \u2018thirteen reasons why\u2019: thirteen people who caused her suicide. So, let\u2019s recap. (view spoiler) [Hannah and Jessica used to be friends, but aren\u2019t anymore for totally pathetic reasons. Hannah watches Jessica get raped and does nothing. Jessica\u2019s rapist is the friend of the boy she (Jessica) liked. The boy she really liked openly permits it to happen, knows what would happen and makes no move to stop it. In short: Jessica is raped, while her friend and crush watch and do nothing. (hide spoiler) ] How does Hannah handle this? Well, obviously, she tops herself. (Because, you really must understand, HANNAH has been hit hardest by all of this.) Except that, before her death, Hannah makes a tape which she sends around fourteen people (view spoiler) [(including Tony, who is not one of her \u2018reasons\u2019 and also the one very likeable character.) (hide spoiler) ] On this tape, Hannah repeatedly calls Jessica out as one of the reasons why she killed herself and blames Jessica for bad things that happened to her \u2013 except that what happened between Jessica and Hannah to end their friendship was so pathetic that I don\u2019t even remember what it was. If Jessica hasn\u2019t switched off the tape \u2013 and, frankly, I\u2019m surprised she didn\u2019t smash it \u2013 by that point, Hannah then went to great pains to (view spoiler) [describe Jessica\u2019s rape, which it\u2019s entirely possible that she (Jessica) didn\u2019t even remember because she was barely-conscious and very drunk, and then describe in detail how she, Jessica\u2019s ex-best friend, and Justin, Jessica\u2019s crush, just stood there and watched. (hide spoiler) ] So, even if Jessica could remember and it wasn\u2019t all horrifying news to her, she then had to deal with the fact that her ex-best friend and crush (view spoiler) [knowingly let it happen. (hide spoiler) ] And that said ex-best friend killed herself. And views Jessica as being responsible. And, oh yeah, chose to tell thirteen other people about the horrible things that happened. As if it was really Hannah\u2019s business. So, yes, I hated Hannah. But I hated her most of all because of her unending slamming of Jessica. But, worst of all? We\u2019re obviously supposed to see Hannah as the victim in all of this. Granted, Clay makes a passing reference to \u2018and then Hannah hit [Jessica] with the tapes.\u2019 Brief moral condemnation, check! But, really, at the end of the novel, Hannah is supposed to be the book\u2019s victim. She\u2019s its resounding tragedy. Not Jessica \u2013 y\u2019know, the poor (view spoiler) [rape victim, who was raped by her crush\u2019s friend while being watched by the crush and her ex-best friend (hide spoiler) ] and now fourteen other people know every detail and she knows they know and they know she knows they know. And she might not have been able to remember any of it in the first place! Excuse me while I go throw up. Sorry for all my outraged repetition up there. Just didn\u2019t feel that I\u2019d quite hammered the point home. Unlike some people, though, I didn\u2019t inherently mind the fact that Hannah hadn\u2019t been tormented to her suicide in some terrible way. It felt more true to life that way. This is the glorious teenage world, where one stupid comment can make you want to curl up in a ball and cry. Granted, it\u2019s not quite glamorous, but it\u2019s very true. It\u2019s Asher\u2019s handling of this fact that butchered it for me. This brings me on to my second blanket definition of why Hannah Baker is utterly unbearable. As I\u2019ve mentioned several times before, Hannah\u2019s reasons are a mixture of the severe and mundane \u2013 I suppose, realistically. But Hannah\u2019s tone is so angry that there is virtually no variation. She seemed equally as angry at the guy who\u2019d once pronounced that she had a \u2018nice ass\u2019 as the (view spoiler) [peeping tom or the rape-enabler (hide spoiler) ] . Maybe that\u2019s plausible for a suicidal girl \u2013 that she should feel so bitter and twisted towards everyone. Still, Hannah also has a very didactic narrative voice. I felt as though I was supposed to be Learning A Very Important Lesson, but equally important lessons from the (view spoiler) [rapist and the guy who said \u2018nice ass\u2019? (hide spoiler) ] I mean, really? They\u2019re both in the same sport, perhaps \u2013 sexual judgment/harassment \u2013 but, really, completely different leagues. Of course, women should not be objectified. They should not be treated like meat. But what happened to Hannah was hardly bullying \u2013 it was a brief pain, something to shake off, not something that should blight her in the way it did. It doesn\u2019t push her down further; it starts her downward spiral. That seemed all backwards to me. Plus, I know that teenagers are hardly known for their perspective, but I\u2019d rather my \u2018nice ass\u2019 be acknowledged than be ridiculed on acne or bad hair or any kind of weight problem. Also, female students can be just as mean and judgmental \u2013 if not so more \u2013 about their peers\u2019 appearances/bodies than men. So, please, my comment above is not a comment on a misogynistic society. P.S., it felt like Asher\u2019s was. But really, \u2018nice ass\u2019? I\u2019m not saying that Hannah should have taken it as a compliment \u2013 but perhaps taken it on the chin a little more? She expresses outrage at one point because she expressed one of the signs of suicidal thoughts: she had a haircut. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not exaggerating. Hannah Baker honest-to-God spews vitriol all over these tapes because people saw that she\u2019d had a haircut and their reaction was, \u201chey, nice haircut!\u201d instead of \u201cARE YOU HAVING SUICIDAL THOUGHTS?!?!\u201d Insulting. ...more oh god, somebody buy this girl some perspective! oh wait, you can't because she's dead. and i, for one, am glad of it because this character would have grown up to be a rotten judgmental schoolmarmy horrorshow of an adult. just horrible. and people love this book like cookies! backtrack. plot: a girl kills herself. but before she goes, she makes a series of audio cassettes and mails them to an individual, with instructions to pass them along to the next person mentioned on the tapes, which are a c oh god, somebody buy this girl some perspective! oh wait, you can't because she's dead. and i, for one, am glad of it because this character would have grown up to be a rotten judgmental schoolmarmy horrorshow of an adult. just horrible. and people love this book like cookies! backtrack. plot: a girl kills herself. but before she goes, she makes a series of audio cassettes and mails them to an individual, with instructions to pass them along to the next person mentioned on the tapes, which are a chronicle of all the things that were done to her that made her kill herself. it was because of you. and you. and you. the blame game, afterlife edition. what a dick, right? and i understand the idea of cause and effect, and that teenagers of all people, need to be more conscious of the effects their actions have on the feeeeelings of others, and this book is meant to highlight that even the smallest things can have a profound effect on a person's life, but ugh - this character is appalling. and does she not realize the effect her accusations are going to have on the recipients of the tapes?? because it is a shitty thing to do when people can't defend themselves, particularly since the awful tragic things that happened to her are pretty standard stuff we have all been through. mostly. nothing suicide-worthy, frankly. and nothing to make other people feel shitty about for the rest of their lives. when you are sitting on the same side of a booth at a diner with a boy on valentines day and you are laughing and you put your head on his shoulder and he puts his hand on your leg, that is not a problem, it is called flirtation. and if you don't like it, use your words, and if that doesn't work, get physical. which she does. and succeeds. so what's with all the boo-hoos?? that no one came to your rescue?? princess, no one is ever going to come to your rescue. you did what you were supposed to do - feel proud and call it a day. a somewhat shitty day, but no reason to kill yourself. she basically uses her suicide to scold boys who have flirted with her or tried to hook up with her.or said she had a nice ass. these are teenagers! they are going to try to hook up with anything that is still breathing! i have dodged many an unwanted advance in my early years, and i have exhaustedly given in to others as the path of least resistance, but that's youth, right? chalk everything up to a learning experience and laugh about it in your adulthood. are we supposed to feel that she is empowered for taking her life? because i don't. i fel like she had a normal sized problem that she willingly made a little bigger in a hot tub, but honestly, suburban new hampshire white girl, here is a book called push . go read that and tell me you have problems. i know i gave this three stars, and it is because i did like the way the story was told, as a split-narrative between the transcripts of the tapes, and the voice of a boy who is one of the accused, as we wait for his part in it to unfold, as he wonders what she thinks he did to her (anticlimax, btw). but so as a plot-driven quasi-mystery book, it definitely held my interest, but the whole time, i couldn't help thinking what a brat she was and how unfair some of her accusations were, particularly to the narrator and the last recipient of the tapes. sheesh. brat. (if she heard me say that, she would try really hard to come back to life so she could make me a tape telling me how i wounded her soul and then she would kill herself again to make me feel guilty. but i would not.) ...more eta 2: this is also the perfect book to listen to on audiotape. usually i am annoyed with audiobooks, but i enjoyed listening to this one almost as much as reading it, because i was hearing hannah while driving in my car, much the same way clay was. still love this book and it's boldness. * eta: for everyone that thinks hannah's suicide was unbelievable, or that the reasons were just stupid and petty, take a moment and think about how what happened could have been the impetus for suicide. it's no eta 2: this is also the perfect book to listen to on audiotape. usually i am annoyed with audiobooks, but i enjoyed listening to this one almost as much as reading it, because i was hearing hannah while driving in my car, much the same way clay was. still love this book and it's boldness. * eta: for everyone that thinks hannah's suicide was unbelievable, or that the reasons were just stupid and petty, take a moment and think about how what happened could have been the impetus for suicide. it's not the whole story, of course. hannah tells us that herself. but people who commit suicide aren't just people that have been raped, abused, are poverty stricken, gang members, or sufferers of PTSD. too many adolescents kill themselves out of a depression that spirals in the SAME WAY hannah's does. too many adults do. and look at the suicide statistics if you don't think this is an important book. * yep, i broke down and bought it. and i am SO GLAD that i did. you guys, ALL OF YOU, read this now. i'm so not joking. this is one of the best books about adolescents and real life and how things can snowball that i have ever read. not to mention this is the best, best, portrayal of true suicidality that i have come across - in all genres. here's clay jensen, with a stack of tapes that arrive on his door. seven tapes, with a number painted in nail-polish on each corner. seven tapes from the dead hannah baker, who was clay's total crush. hannah baker, who killed herself with pills. the genius is that the act of suicide itself is not glorified. at all. it's not an impulsive suicide, despite what people may have thought, and that's part of why i think i appreciate this book so much. for people that are truly, and deeply, and clinically depressed, it's not really impulsive. it's a series of things that lead one to believe that it's just not going to get better. and that's exactly what happens to hannah. things that seem small and petty or not even memorable build in the head of someone who is already fragile. she isn't melodramatic about it, she's to the point. sometimes she's angry, sometimes she's sad, and sometimes she's brutally honest with herself - she knows that her actions are selfish, she knows that there were places she could have made things different and didn't. she knows where she closed the doors that might have been opening, and where she opened the ones she should have left shut. i love hannah baker. i love clay jensen. i love these characters for their emotional vulnerability and honesty, for the way the story is told in pieces that all weave together in the end, for the fact there is no pandering to the reader, or condescension. that even in the end, even after hannah decided, there was one last chance. that this was thought out and thoughtful and not just a look at how people deal with the aftermath of a suicide, but how a suicide might be the end point. i really cannot say enough about this book. i want to quote whole passages, i want to make so many people read it. it is SUCH an accurate portrayal it breaks my heart. when hannah wants to disappear into the mist, and the decision for the way she wants to kill herself - her difficulty in even saying the word \"suicide\" in the beginning - it's just. not wanting her parents to find her hanging. thinking about making it look like an accident by crashing a car. people may think what hannah did, by leaving the tapes, was super vindictive and mean. i do think there was an element of that to her recording everything - it's true to her character. but more than that, i think hannah wanted people to know how things spiral so far out of control, and how seemingly small interpersonal interactions can have such amazing consequences. more than anything, i think hannah wanted to leave her own answer to \"why do people commit suicide\" and \"signs to watch out for\". and i think she did a pretty damn good job. this is amazingly brilliant. Jay Asher just completely blew me away. so go read it. now. ...more When I tried to structure my thoughts to write this review, I discovered that it\u2019s actually very hard to write something about a book I liked but didn\u2019t love. I definitely have no hard feelings towards Thirteen Reasons Why but I also don\u2019t really have anything to rave about. Which makes me feel a little conflicted about the rating. This book will stay with me for a while, it made me think , but it also had its flaws. I thought the novel was based on an original and great concept. We have a simulta When I tried to structure my thoughts to write this review, I discovered that it\u2019s actually very hard to write something about a book I liked but didn\u2019t love. I definitely have no hard feelings towards Thirteen Reasons Why but I also don\u2019t really have anything to rave about. Which makes me feel a little conflicted about the rating. This book will stay with me for a while, it made me think , but it also had its flaws. I thought the novel was based on an original and great concept. We have a simultaneous narration: We get to hear Hannah\u2019s thoughts through the tapes she recorded, and mixed with that, we see how Clay reacts to the things she says. While that is without doubt the perfect way to tell this story (that can probably be enjoyed even more in an audiobook format), I sometimes found it hard to distinguish their voices. I read a sentence, and when I went over it too quickly, I sometimes had to check back if it was in bold or italic to find out who actually said what. While Clay certainly was a sweet guy, I found him to be almost too nice to be true and compared with Hannah, his character and voice felt rather flat. Also, I expected this story to make me sad and touch me deeply because, after all, it is a story about missed opportunities, about a life ending much too soon, about guilt and grief. Unfortunately, that was not the case. But, all in all, despite the fact that I wasn\u2019t really emotionally invested, I simply HAD to know exactly what drove Hannah over the edge. I wanted to know her story, to get an idea what made her feel so depressed and alone. I read in quite some reviews that people thought her reasons to commit suicide were shallow. I don\u2019t agree with that at all. They were her reasons and nobody else\u2019s, and I think that she shouldn\u2019t be judged by them. People don\u2019t always have this big reason behind their decisions. Sometimes small things add up to each other, and when you suffer from depression, as Hannah clearly did, even everyday life can be too much for you to take. It can make everything feel like a chore. Yet, I also found it difficult to understand why Hannah went to such lengths to record her tapes and make sure everybody received them. It seemed to be more about getting back at the people who hurt her than about closure and explanation. Those people did her wrong, no question, but do they deserve what they got? Do they deserve to live with the guilt of being responsible for Hannah\u2019s death? I\u2019m not sure. But this book definitely showed me that even small things we do (or don\u2019t do) can have a huge impact on somebody else\u2019s life, and that sometimes we should take more time to try to understand the people we deal with everyday \u2013 be it at school or somewhere else. But all things considered, I\u2019m glad that Jay Asher didn\u2019t portray Hannah as a victim. She also had her faults, made wrong decisions and \u2013 in the end \u2013 gave up. Now I\u2019m still pondering over one question: What is actually worse? Knowing exactly why somebody killed himself and what role you yourself played in his decision? Or living with the fact that you will never find out what caused his suicide and that your questions will never be answered? #4 TBR Pile Reduction Challenge (Brooke) ...more I absolutely loved this book. What an eye opener. In Thirteen Reasons Why we listen to audio tapes that was sent to 13 people by Hannah who committed suicide, to explain her reasons why. First I want to mention that to all the reviewers who say that her reasons weren't \"good enough\" for her to kill herself, you're wrong. Everyone doesn't cope with situations the same way, and problems that may seem minimalistic to you, can send the next person into depression. We all have our own ways of working I absolutely loved this book. What an eye opener. In Thirteen Reasons Why we listen to audio tapes that was sent to 13 people by Hannah who committed suicide, to explain her reasons why. First I want to mention that to all the reviewers who say that her reasons weren't \"good enough\" for her to kill herself, you're wrong. Everyone doesn't cope with situations the same way, and problems that may seem minimalistic to you, can send the next person into depression. We all have our own ways of working through our issues, and some have a much harder time than others. These were her reasons to commit suicide, which were enough for her, who are we to judge? Personally I thought it was amazingly done and very realistic. There weren't any embellishments or glorifications, it was true portrayal of teen suicide. We go through the story with Clay while he is listening to Hannah's tapes. The narration goes back and forth between the tapes and what Clay is doing/thinking. I really though this was a great way to pace the story and build up the suspense. And every single page is full of suspense. I really could have stayed up all night reading it. The story contains a lot of emotions; Intense and raw emotions. We go through them with Hannah as well as Clay, simultaneously. Hearing her tapes makes us realize that our actions, however small, can have a whirlwind of an effect on others. Yes, sending those tapes may have been a little mean. But obviously there was a lot going on with Hannah and she needed to get this out. I don't condone her for it, but I can understand why she thought it necessary. It's not an easy subject to talk about, and suicide is not something to take lightly. Asher did an amazing job of taking a sensitive subject and writing a very touching, mesmerizing novel. ...more Book 26/100 for 2015 I am so happy that I finally decided to pick up this book. I've heard nothing but hype and it is completely deserved. Thirteen Reasons Why changed me. It made me step back from my life and realize that every action I take affects someone else, positively or negatively. I've studied the butterfly effect in school and I knew what it was as a concept but it didn't really hit me until this book. Hannah's voice is eerie and powerful and really made this story stand out. Even knowi Book 26/100 for 2015 I am so happy that I finally decided to pick up this book. I've heard nothing but hype and it is completely deserved. Thirteen Reasons Why changed me. It made me step back from my life and realize that every action I take affects someone else, positively or negatively. I've studied the butterfly effect in school and I knew what it was as a concept but it didn't really hit me until this book. Hannah's voice is eerie and powerful and really made this story stand out. Even knowing going into this that she ends her life, I began to beg her not to and wish that it could end differently. I don't really know what else to say because I'm still recovering from this book, but I definitely want to listen to the audio book one day. ...more Thirteen Reasons Why This Book Sucks: 13. Poorly Sketched Supporting Characters: Hannah, the girl who killed herself, and Clay, the boy she sent her \"suicide note\" tapes to, were fairly believable and well-drawn individuals. But everyone else in the story seems interchangeable, with motivations that are never made clear or seem to constantly switch to serve the purposes of the plot. I couldn't tell the difference between Courtney Crimson and Jessica and Mr. Porter, if there was one, and I couldn' Thirteen Reasons Why This Book Sucks: 13. Poorly Sketched Supporting Characters: Hannah, the girl who killed herself, and Clay, the boy she sent her \"suicide note\" tapes to, were fairly believable and well-drawn individuals. But everyone else in the story seems interchangeable, with motivations that are never made clear or seem to constantly switch to serve the purposes of the plot. I couldn't tell the difference between Courtney Crimson and Jessica and Mr. Porter, if there was one, and I couldn't keep track of what they did to Hannah. They seemed like a stock supporting cast of high school kids and teachers that Asher picked out of a hat. 12. An Unlikable \"Heroine\": Hannah blames everyone else for her problems, then kills herself and drags everyone else into her misery too. Sure, she went through some rough stuff, but was it really that much worse than what most high schoolers deal with, and get over? She's like a vengeful harpy, tormenting those she blames for pushing her over the edge and haunting them from beyond the grave. She's like a combination of the Ghost of Christmas Past and Holden Caulfield, for the Disney Channel generation. What a great role model for kids. 11. Bad Dialogue & Monologues: Like I said, Hannah and Clay are somewhat believable characters, but they often speak - and think - in ways that no teenager does. There's way too much of Clay \"talking\" to Hannah in his head (along the lines of, \"Hannah, why did you do that?\" repeated ad nauseum). And Hannah's always saying stuff like \"I bet you wonder how you fit into all of this\u2026 well, you'll soon find out!\" BOOGA BOOGA BOOGA! 10. Soap Opera Melodrama: The dialogue and action in this book are ridiculously exaggerated and overwrought, even by the histrionic standards of young adult fiction. There's almost no subtlety. I mean, I know teenagers love drama, but does Asher have to telegraph every emotion, every twist in the plot, with a metaphorical exclamation point? It's like a Lifetime movie about suicide. The literary equivalent of a shitty, screamy emo song. 9. Amateurish Writing: This kind of dovetails with the points above, but\u2026 I really don't understand how this got a good review from anyone over the age of 16. There's way too much telling and not enough showing in this book. It almost reads like it was written by a high schooler, minus the authenticity. 8. It Had A Blurb From Sherman Alexie , One Of My Favorite Authors, Which Made Me Like Him A Little Less By Association: I read this book the day after I read Alexie's infinitely superior The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian . The contrast between the two young adult novels couldn't be more clear. Alexie's is a realistic, clever, and often heartbreaking story of what it means to grow up as an outcast that ultimately transcends its setting and resonates across generations and backgrounds. Asher's is an overcooked, amateurishly written, poorly realized picture of overdramatic suburban kids chasing their own tails into oblivion. 7. It's A Page-Turner With A Weak Ending: I'll admit, this one had me going, even after I realized I was being taken for a ride and didn't much like it, I kept reading. Partly because I was reading it while substitute teaching an English class where all the kids were reading too, so I had nothing better to do. But I was also really hoping the ending would redeem some of the shortcomings and make it worthwhile. Nope. It just fizzles out. Big waste of time. 6. Ruins A Clever Idea That Someone Else Could Have Done Better: When I first read about this book and its basic narrative conceit, I was intrigued. Sure, the plot structure is very high-concept, but so was Slaughterhouse-Five. And the basic message of the story, that one small action or remark can have huge and possibly terrible repercussions in another person's life, is certainly true and a lesson than every teenager should learn. It makes for a great cover and book jacket. Too bad everything in between sucks. Asher should have written a synopsis and then handed it off to somebody with some talent. 5. It's Being Made Into A Movie Starring Selena Gomez: No further explanation needed. 4. It's A Blatant Attempt To Make An \"Important\" Book: Pretty much dripping from every page of this thing is the smug sense of self-satisfaction Asher must have felt while writing it. In the age of cyber-bullying and sexting, teen suicide is becoming an even more complicated and difficult issue. But this book doesn't really have anything new, insightful, or helpful to say about it. 3. An Unrealistic Portrait Of Depression And Suicidal Ideation: Hannah kills herself for reasons that, to put it bluntly, are bullshit. A few rumors? A car accident she was only tangentially connected to? Witnessing a date rape? All of these are traumatic to varying degrees, but none of them are likely reasons someone would off themselves. As somebody who's worked with kids with mental illness, who've suffered physical, emotional, and sexual abuse, this whole thing just strained credibility. Hannah's way too self-assured and in touch with her emotions to be suicidal. Kids who try to kill themselves do so either in a period of extreme emotional upheaval or because there is a terrible, relentless drumbeat within their beings that sucks the joy out of existence. Never did I get the sense that Hannah felt this way. She seemed to want to kill herself as a kind of performance art, or to get back at the people who wronged her, which is definitely not why most kids do it. 2. It's An Exploitation Of A Serious Issue: To continue with the point above, this book really does a disservice to the perception of kids who are seriously ill and need help. It presents suicide as a choice made by whiny kids who bring most of their problems on themselves and do it as a kind of revenge on the world. Like I said, this is not why most kids do it. They are seriously fucked up, either by brain chemistry, drugs, or terrible experiences in their past, the kind of stuff that Hannah never even comes close to. Sure, there are kids who kill themselves because of being bullied, or called sluts, or whatever, but even in those cases the trauma is much more severe than it was here. Asher either doesn't have the guts to portray depression, abuse, and suicide the way they really are, or (more likely) he doesn't know much about them, but wanted to get famous writing a book about it anyways. 1. It Might Just Make Some Troubled Teen More Likely To Kill Themselves: I know this is a serious charge to make, but hear me out for a second. Throughout the book, Asher makes all the rather trivial stuff that happens to Hannah seem like a huge deal. Now, to be fair, the kind of moderate bullying Hannah endures would seem terrible to a suburban high schooler who hasn't dealt with much worse. But nowhere in the book does Asher try to show his teenage readers that such stuff is, in fact, extremely trivial and not worth getting your panties in a bunch over, that there is a big, beautiful world just past the edge of the strip malls and subdivisions of suburban rot if only they'd quit navel gazing for a minute, and none of that high school shit is worth killing oneself over. I'm not saying young adult books have to be all sunshine and rainbows, far from it, but if you're gonna read a book for kids about suicide, at least give some compelling reasons not to do it. Instead, he almost validates Hannah's actions. The whole book is about thirteen reasons why she killed herself, for chrissakes. Sure, Clay does a lot of hand-wringing and, \"why, Hannah, why?\" type of stuff, but never is there a moment of true catharsis or even a genuine feeling that thing could get better. Instead, Asher wallows in emo-ness from start to finish because he knows that's what his readers want. Problem is, a particularly depressed reader could easily get the impression that if Hannah killed herself for some pretty petty reasons, than they (who are probably suffering through actual, legitimate shit) should do it to. And that's why I REALLY hated this book, and wouldn't recommend it to anyone, especially teenagers. ...more What an unbelievable book. If you haven\u2019t read it, you should. If you're thinking about reading it do it now. I don\u2019t know about you, but I love getting stuff in the mail, especially getting packages. Well so does the main character of this story, Clay. But Clay would rather have not received this package. Hannah Baker. Clay has had a crush on Hannah forever, but he never had the guts to really tell her. Now he never will. Hannah committed suicide. But before Hannah killed herself she left somethi What an unbelievable book. If you haven\u2019t read it, you should. If you're thinking about reading it do it now. I don\u2019t know about you, but I love getting stuff in the mail, especially getting packages. Well so does the main character of this story, Clay. But Clay would rather have not received this package. Hannah Baker. Clay has had a crush on Hannah forever, but he never had the guts to really tell her. Now he never will. Hannah committed suicide. But before Hannah killed herself she left something behind. Seven cassette tapes. Seven tapes that tell the story of the thirteen people that caused Hannah to feel that she had no where to turn. Each person has a story within the tapes and it is your responsibility after you listen to the tapes to pass it onto the next person. But what did Clay do? How could he be one of the people responsible for her suicide, he will have to listen to the tapes to find out. This is one of the most compelling books I\u2019ve ever read. It is right up there with Picoult\u2019s Nineteen Minutes. This is definitely one of those books that makes you look at the way you treat people and how fragile we are as humans. I cried, I laughed, I felt. Suicide is the third leading cause of death in people ranging in the ages 15-24. If you know someone who has talked about committing suicide, please don\u2019t take it lightly. You might be the one person they are reaching out to. ...more This book was very engrossing and suspenseful, but in the end it just pissed me off. I don't know how to put this in more delicate terms, so if I make my case rather bluntly or insensitively, I do so only because I don't want to tiptoe around what I really feel. Basically, I understand why some people turn to suicide as the only option out. I understand the feeling of helplessness and misery that could make a person decide that taking herself out is the only way to stop the pain. But after experi This book was very engrossing and suspenseful, but in the end it just pissed me off. I don't know how to put this in more delicate terms, so if I make my case rather bluntly or insensitively, I do so only because I don't want to tiptoe around what I really feel. Basically, I understand why some people turn to suicide as the only option out. I understand the feeling of helplessness and misery that could make a person decide that taking herself out is the only way to stop the pain. But after experiencing the aftermath of suicides in my extended family and, more pointedly, in my graduating class in high school, I have erased it as any option I would ever consider for myself. And even though I understand why people would kill themselves, that does not mean I agree that they are making the right choice. When the suicides happened my senior year, the school was loathe to talk about it except on a student-by-student basis. They believed that making too much out of the suicide glorified it and encouraged other kids to commit suicide in order to get the same attention. I don't know that I disagree, but I do know that not providing teenagers with information means they create their own answers, which can be worse. But I also remember that everyone wondered about their personal relationships with the people who died, if seemingly inconsequential statements contributed to the final act of despair. This book is basically saying, \"Yes, in fact, your actions are one of the 13 reasons why I killed myself.\" I find this horribly unfair. Don't get me wrong, the people who Hannah blames for her downward spiral were all jerks to her. But she wasn't the only person in the school tormented by these people. The tapes portray Hannah as the number one target at school, but didn't we all feel that way (except for those handful of people who claim to have loved high school and who I will never understand)? What makes it worse for Hannah than for anyone else? Why do some of us survive it and she couldn't? Or better yet, what actions of Hannah's, inspired by her own unhappiness, contributed to the despair of another person who may later consider suicide? I think that the author was trying to say that there is never one single reason for a person to commit suicide, and that we should be aware of how we treat other people because we don't know the power of our own seemingly inconsequential actions. He was telling us to reach out to people who seem alone and vulnerable even if they try to push us away. I agree with all of this. However, the author failed to make the point that different people deal with life in different ways and have different capacities for dealing with it. He needed to make the point that Hannah wasn't strong to begin with, that she was already emotionally vulnerable or unstable. Because otherwise, everyone who survives high school gossip and cruelty would be a triumph, when really I've found that it's quite commonplace. Most people did not kill themselves in high school despite 13 or more reasons to do so. I've never been the kind of person who is comforted by thoughts like, \"Think how much worse someone else has it.\" That's not what I'm saying here. Your own problems will always seem bigger that anyone else's because they are your own. But the author never explained why these experiences crushed Hannah while others somehow got by. I'm not saying it couldn't happen that way. But why couldn't she - specifically Hannah - handle it? In the end, this book just made me mad because we are led through this narrative in which we succumb to Hannah's interpretation of events and her justification for her death. If the author's point was to show that the average cruelties of high school, when taken together, can lead someone to suicide, then he also needs to show why it doesn't. I don't believe in sugar-coating life for teenagers, and I don't believe in censoring books because they may \"encourage undesirable behavior.\" But this book seems like the perfect way to push a suicidal teenager closer to the edge. And it pisses me off that a book would give me a reaction opposite of what I claim to believe. ...more I absolutely loathed this book. And that\u2019s saying something , because heck knows I always have positives to say about a book and I don\u2019t like to judge them too harshly. But this one? No. I hated it. I hated the message the author was sending. I think it was wrong and cruel. Obviously, this is just my opinion! But I will enver recommend this book. Obviously it\u2019s about suicide. And I feel like the message was (so wrong ) that everyone is to blame for one person\u2019s suicide. To a certain extent I absolutely loathed this book. And that\u2019s saying something , because heck knows I always have positives to say about a book and I don\u2019t like to judge them too harshly. But this one? No. I hated it. I hated the message the author was sending. I think it was wrong and cruel. Obviously, this is just my opinion! But I will enver recommend this book. Obviously it\u2019s about suicide. And I feel like the message was (so wrong ) that everyone is to blame for one person\u2019s suicide. To a certain extent, that can be true. Bullying, however subtle and off-handed IS SO VERY WRONG. But Hannah\u2019s whole send-the-tapes-to-the-people-who-were-involved-in-her-death was a very kamikaze effect. She was going down no matter what, SO let\u2019s take some suckers along. I personally believe what Hannah did by sending those tapes out (view spoiler) [ especially to Clay, because SHE SAID he wasn\u2019t actually involved in her death! (hide spoiler) ] was cruel and malicious bullying. She was just as guilty, and more so, then any of the kids that teased her, because she then ruined and destroyed 13 lives. I hate that. I hate the message this book sends. I hate that it is OKAY for Hannah to have sent those tapes. I hate how she could have, potentially, sent 13 other people to kill THEMSELVES because of what she said about them on the tapes. I hate how Clay even GOT the tapes. (It was totally against the rules she set up.) I was so angry and so distressed when I finished this book, it almost turned me off reading. Honestly. I\u2019ve read 70 books this year, and it\u2019s only April. I LOVE BOOKS. And this made me hate them oh-so-much. My opinion is definitely a minority, but I\u2019m entitled to it, so, gah, I\u2019m letting myself have a miniature rant for once. This book is in no way okay. ...more High school junior (?) Hannah downs a bottle of pills shocking her classmates. Post-mordem a box of cassette tapes is sent around to 13 of peers, all of whom played a part in her ultimate suicide. The summary of this story is just as shitty and ridiculous as the book. There is no discussion of feelings of depression outside of how she was hurt by classmates, which, may represent the surface feelings of a depressed person, but the execution is not believable. Also, the fact that this young girl c High school junior (?) Hannah downs a bottle of pills shocking her classmates. Post-mordem a box of cassette tapes is sent around to 13 of peers, all of whom played a part in her ultimate suicide. The summary of this story is just as shitty and ridiculous as the book. There is no discussion of feelings of depression outside of how she was hurt by classmates, which, may represent the surface feelings of a depressed person, but the execution is not believable. Also, the fact that this young girl commit suicide because of alienation at school is not portrayed in a believable sense either. Also, the narrator (one of the thirteen) does not take away a very deep message from the experience. When he should be realizing that Hannah gave up, instead he goes on blaming himself ( he, himself did not belong on the tapes) and ultimately decides to talk to a girl who is an outsider. Gives people who commit suicide a bad name. the topic of this book was poorly researched and the message is wrong. the reader is left with little insight to suicide and mostly just feelings of superficial guilt. ALA Best Books for Young Adults committe: did you even read this book? ...more Put me underneath God's sky and know me don't just see me with your eyes Take away this mask of flesh and bone and See me for my soul alone. Trigger Warning: Suicide For some reason, I've been in the mood to read books with a strong topic and subject, involving something personal or something I can relate to in any way; something I can feel emotions with. Thirteen Reasons Why really wasn't it. It wasn't an emotional book. I've heard it's such a sad book that makes you cry and sob hard, but I didn't f Put me underneath God's sky and know me don't just see me with your eyes Take away this mask of flesh and bone and See me for my soul alone. Trigger Warning: Suicide For some reason, I've been in the mood to read books with a strong topic and subject, involving something personal or something I can relate to in any way; something I can feel emotions with. Thirteen Reasons Why really wasn't it. It wasn't an emotional book. I've heard it's such a sad book that makes you cry and sob hard, but I didn't feel any emotion and didn't shed one single tear. I expected to feel a little more bad for Hannah, but I didn't get to that point. I didn't hate her, and I did enjoy her perspective a lot more than Clay's but I didn't feel that bad. I wish her reasons were a little more, strong. The reasons for her suicide weren't very supportive, I would say. There were some reasons that she could've gotten rid of by getting the person rid of their lives, but I guess Hannah didn't decide to do that. She decided to continue with her life and let that person be in it even when she knew who they really were. Thirteen Reasons Why is mostly about Hannah Baker but is also about Clay Jensen. Clay receives a shoebox full of audio tapes with the name of Hannah Baker when he comes back from school. They're tapes recorded by the girl he once had a crush on, once wanted to get to know better. The girl who killed herself two weeks before that day he receives that box. The audiotapes are tapes explaining why Hannah Killed herself. They include thirteen reasons why, and whoever receives a package is a person mentioned in one of the tapes. What Clay doesn't want to find out is why he is on the list Hannah mentioned--the list of people that were part of the reasons why Hannah killed herself. But at the same time he does. All he has to do is press that play button and listen. As Hannah explains the different stories of every person, Clay is able to understand her more as a person and understand her reasonings, understand why Hannah was different at times. Understand why and how he wasn't able to help her and change the way she looked at life. As a person who has looked at her life differently than others, thinking it's too different; as someone who had been wanting to know what the meaning of her life really was and what she was doing in this world, a world that she felt like she didn't belong in ; as someone who has been able to survive from voices in her head telling her to do it, to press the gun, to take the pills, to pull the rope, to drink the ammonia, to push the blade, I was not able to connect to Hannah in any way. The 13 reasons she gives her \"friends\" and the people who betrayed her were reasons that I didn't feel a connection with. I completely understand her reasons, though, and they made sense to me. What I didn't understand is how her reasons came to make sense. In other words, Hannah didn't have many reasons for her suicide. To be honest, I wish Hannah had better reasons for doing what she did. I'm not calling suicidal people stupid and in no way do I joke about that, but Hannah was kind of stupid. Her decisions were stupid and like I said, her reasons weren't very supportive. There's one friend named Marcus in the story that mentions how Hannah used him as an excuse to kill herself, and I have to agree. He did what he does, and she should've known. She should've known to say no and she should've known what would happen after. I didn't have any problems with Clay. I didn't like his character that much, but I managed to read some of his parts. I do admit I skimmed a lot of his perspective because I wanted to read until the end and find out why Hannah did this horrible thing, but then I didn't even care about. Clay was a good guy and I really don't understand why Hannah had to mention him (view spoiler) [when he wasn't even a part of the list in the first place. The boy did nothing wrong and what he really wanted to do was to get to know Hannah better. Even when he had the chance and didn't take it, he still cared. As we read on, we learn that Clay wanted to help Hannah and get to know her better but she pushed him away. He was a young boy doing what young boys do and all Hannah had to do was talk to him and ask him, ask him for a kind of help or go out with him to get things off her mind. (hide spoiler) ] Hannah was my biggest problem, and as a person that can relate to her final decision, I couldn't relate to her reasons since any of them have happened to me. First of all, I would've talked to someone about what happened and been honest. Second of all, I would've thought about what effects it would have on me and others if I ever did make that final choice . Third of all, I would go back to the things I did before that made me happy, to the people that cared and showed loved, before making that final choice. Clay was a good guy, like I said, and he did show like he cared. As he was listening to Hannah's voice, he was able to feel pain and emotions, was able to feel bad for Hannah and understand her. I, sadly, couldn't understand her. Really though, I wish she made different choices, chose different people, moved to different places. There really isn't much to say this. The way Jay Asher wrote this wasn't something I liked. I didn't like the change of perspectives in the same pages, going from Italic form from Hannah's point of view to bold form from Clay's point of view. It was easy to understand, but it was also boring reading them. I didn't enjoy reading that much from Clay's view and even though I enjoyed Hanna's view more, the way she talked in the tapes wasn't something I completely enjoy. I'm not a fan of audio books or audio tapes or anything doing with audio and someone talking or reading to you, but I really don't want to find out because I know I would already dislike it. With Hannah, her voice wasn't annoying or irritating, obviously since I couldn't hear it, but it wasn't a voice I was able to hear. You might be thinking that's weird, wanting to hear her voice as I read her voice but what I mean is that I wish Hannah was able to make me feel a sort of connection as I was reading her point of view being explained to others. Her voice wasn't like other voices; other characters. She sounded pissed and annoyed, I mean, of course. Who wouldn't be angry explaining their reasoning to that one person who is a reason for them wanting to commit suicide? But what I mean is that, since I did mention that her reasons weren't that very supportive, they were taken too far. Hannah tried to embarrass some people and even said some things about them I wish she never said. Her friends, the boys she used to like, the boys she kissed, the girls she hung out with knowing they weren't real friends, they were all people she knew about but yet she didn't do much. Like I said, I didn't hate Clay, but I didn't like him either. I enjoyed his character more than Hannah's but I enjoyed her point of view more than his. My problem with Clay was that he started changing the way he looked at Hannah, even when she was dead, and he regretted the chances he never took. He said he heard rumors and things spreading about Hannah but he also said he regretted not figuring out the reasons why they are spreading and what is really going on about Hannah. He mentions that he wishes Hannah was alive so he can do something to change the way her future is about to change, but even finding out he knew what happened, he didn't do anything. I'm saying he didn't do anything when he knew some things because he said so himself that he knew about some rumours being started by some of his own friends and yet he didn't try talking to Hannah, didn't try helping her, didn't try getting to know her better. I don't understand (view spoiler) [how he was part of the list if he didn't do anything to her; they never even knew each other and they both admitted that. (hide spoiler) ] Hannah says he didn't do anything, but in reality, she didn't allow him to. This was a 3-star book for me, but I lowered it down to 2 stars because I realized I didn't enjoy this as much as I thought I would after writing this review. Overall, the book didn't deliver a good message. I really don't even know if it was supposed to, but it wasn't clear. I know most books that have to do with a mental illness, mental health, suicide, rape, abuse, or any other kind of assault or disorder are to deliver a message, but a lot of books have failed to deliver them in the right way. The author fails to write a story about any of those topics (or all) and it's really frustrating. Sometimes it's taken as a joke and that's even more frustrating. A book shouldn't be written for entertainment to joke about an illness or disorder. I'm not saying this one did, but I am saying that it failed to deliver it's message (whichever one it really is, if there is one). The book wasn't touching, it wasn't emotional, it wasn't heart-wrenching, it was just another typical book that failed to deliver a message about suicide. ...more \u201cYou can't stop the future You can't rewind the past The only way to learn the secret ...is to press play.\u201d Thirteen Reasons Why is a book I\u2019ve been meaning to read for about 5 years. My sister read it and told me I\u2019d love it. I do love books that make me cry and since the book is being made into a Netflix series next month, I thought why not give it a go. As depressing as this one was, though- I didn\u2019t shed one tear. I\u2019m not sure what that says about me or the story. Honestly, I have conflict \u201cYou can't stop the future You can't rewind the past The only way to learn the secret ...is to press play.\u201d Thirteen Reasons Why is a book I\u2019ve been meaning to read for about 5 years. My sister read it and told me I\u2019d love it. I do love books that make me cry and since the book is being made into a Netflix series next month, I thought why not give it a go. As depressing as this one was, though- I didn\u2019t shed one tear. I\u2019m not sure what that says about me or the story. Honestly, I have conflicting feelings about the story itself. However, it was story that I feel will stay with me. It had profound moments and it was a mesmerizing read. I guess my biggest issue was that as much as I liked Clay, I didn\u2019t connect with Hannah. I understood her, but I didn\u2019t really ever get that understanding I desired. I loved how part of the story was told through Hannah\u2019s tapes, and the rest from Clay\u2019s POV. As I was listening, I was dying to see who was going to be next, how everything would go down, and waiting for the big WHY to be answered. I didn\u2019t want to stop listening. This was an engaging read that did make me think, made me feel, and even though it frustrated me at times, I\u2019m glad I made time to read it. ...more Thirteen Reasons Why had me hooked from the very beginning. I loved the idea of the tapes, how Hannah lived on through her tapes and how finally people would be getting some answers as to why she took her own life. I couldn\u2019t stop reading; the story was addictive. I had to know who was the next one on the tapes and for which reason they were on that tape. How you don\u2019t realise it, but the tiniest things can affect another human being enormously. It was definitely an interesting concept. It was n Thirteen Reasons Why had me hooked from the very beginning. I loved the idea of the tapes, how Hannah lived on through her tapes and how finally people would be getting some answers as to why she took her own life. I couldn\u2019t stop reading; the story was addictive. I had to know who was the next one on the tapes and for which reason they were on that tape. How you don\u2019t realise it, but the tiniest things can affect another human being enormously. It was definitely an interesting concept. It was nice to read this through the eyes of someone who was on that tape, not just hear Hannah\u2019s story. Clay\u2019s perspective didn\u2019t really add anything to the story, but it gave you a break. Hannah Baker was a teenage girl. It is commonly known that teenage girls are drama queens, insecure and easy to fool. They get hurt all the time. It happens to every teenage girl. But that doesn\u2019t mean you should kill yourself over it. High school is awkward and embarrassing for everyone. Honestly, none of the reasons were good enough to kill yourself over, not even when you combined them all. I realise this is subjective and people might disagree with me, but to me, these were things that happened to everyone: girl gets fooled by boy, girl gets grabbed by moron, girl loses so-called best friend. Do these things sound familiar to you? Yes. Because they happened to you, and they happened to me as well. But you and I are both still here. There were certainly reasons that were worse than the ones I just summed up, but I felt like Hannah was at fault most of the time as well. They were not unavoidable or uncontrollable. Like the whole Jacuzzi thing with <---C>Bryce</---C>, she let that happen. Yes, Hannah was pretty desperate by then and on the verge of breaking down, but she knew what she was getting herself into by joining Bryce in that hot tub. It\u2019s stupid to allow him to get into your panties and then blame him for your suicide. The thing is, Hannah blamed her suicide on everyone but herself, and that is just wrong. She still could have had control over her life, could have done things to make it better, but she didn\u2019t. We all think about suicide, about the easy way out, even if it was for a brief moment where you felt hopeless. Talk to people. In most cases (at least with most teenagers), all it takes is for one person to show you that they care. That\u2019s it. One friend. That would have been the beginning of a better life. Clay could have been that friend. He probably would have ended up as her boyfriend, and they would have been happy for a while and things would have changed, but Hannah pushed him away. Then comes the part which makes me really angry. After making out with Clay and making him leave, Hannah started crying and Jessica was raped by Bryce in the same room as Hannah . But Hannah didn\u2019t do anything, because she kept crying over all the boys that were mean to her and feeling sorry for herself. I don\u2019t care how bad your situation is, but Hannah, you were already deciding that you were going to end your life. Your life would be over, but you gave Jessica a life imprisonment by letting her get raped. I don\u2019t care how fucking sorry you feel for yourself, when someone is being raped in the same fucking room as yourself, you do everything you fucking can to stop that. You were at a party. Surely you could have found people to help you stop it. And you would be in shock, but later on you would feel better about yourself, because you helped someone out. And after a while, Jessica would come over and say, \u201cHey there, thanks for saving me from being raped by that douchebag. That was cool of you.\u201d Everything that happened to Hannah combined is less bad than what happened to Jessica at that party. For me, there would be nothing worse than rape. Yes, I know there are things worse than rape, but let\u2019s not get smart here. Those things would not happen to your average teenage girl. That scene was the last drop for me. I liked the beginning, but after a while I felt like Hannah was more of a whiner than someone who\u2019s been through so much. They did not seem like things you could never get over. You keep fighting. When someone tells you to \u2018move on\u2019, that does not mean you should make mix-tapes blaming everyone else for why your life sucks and then kill yourself, but not have the decency to fess up about what you did. It had to look like an accident, so Hannah\u2019s parents wouldn\u2019t feel guilty. But guess what, Hannah? Just like everyone on your tapes, you cannot keep people from getting hurt. That is the snowball effect. Everything affects everything. After that scene, Hannah could have prevented a fatal accident, but again, she didn\u2019t do anything. Hannah is one of those girls that lets everything happen. To her, but also to everyone else. The only time she does take matters in her own hand, she does the wrong thing by taking her life. And I feel like that was redundant. She didn\u2019t have to do that. Hannah was a teenage girl. She had so much to live for. She could have gone to college and gotten a nice job, move to a place where nobody knew her so she could start over, and she could have made friends and made things better for herself. In my opinion, she didn\u2019t try hard enough to make it work. And it worries me that people would give up so easily. Talk to someone. Anyone. Talk to me. I\u2019ll listen. I can\u2019t promise you that I have all the answers, but I\u2019ll listen to you. And I will send you virtual hugs and videos of kittens. They won\u2019t be a solution to your problems, but even just a smile helps a bunch to brighten your day. ...more I liked the idea of this book more than the execution. Clay received a package in the mail with audiotapes narrated by Hannah because he is one of the thirteen reasons she committed suicide. As he wanders through town visiting the monumental spots in Hannah's life, he listens to the tapes waiting for the one that accuses him. The suspense was good. I liked Clay and applaud Asher for bringing to light the tragic subject of teen suicide, but there were things about it that bothered me: I didn't sym I liked the idea of this book more than the execution. Clay received a package in the mail with audiotapes narrated by Hannah because he is one of the thirteen reasons she committed suicide. As he wanders through town visiting the monumental spots in Hannah's life, he listens to the tapes waiting for the one that accuses him. The suspense was good. I liked Clay and applaud Asher for bringing to light the tragic subject of teen suicide, but there were things about it that bothered me: I didn't sympathize with Hannah. I really wanted to. From the get go, I wanted to pity the wrongs done her, but she started off the tapes laughing, taking her impending suicide as a joke, which comes off as spite. I know Asher did this to show a character arc of someone who was fun and outgoing until the stupid cruelties of teenagers destroyed her, but where she started these tapes after she decided to kill herself, the humor is jarring. We should only get depressed Hannah on the tapes and the outgoing Hannah through Clay's memories. And we don't even see the transition from happy to ruined, only the word of Clay that she changed. I wanted to see it in Hannah's story. Asher also played it too safe with Clay. He was a bit of a Gary Stu (view spoiler) [and that robbed me of my \"how could you?\" moment. Asher still worked some guilt in there, but it didn't work for me the way it could have if he were more culpable. It also didn't work that in order to save Clay, he had to twist Hannah's story into something that should have made her less suicidal. It would have been better to throw in something that seemed minor to him but was big to Hannah or to make Clay the recipient of the second set of tapes. If we are to sympathize with Clay the way Asher wants us to, a minor misdeed would make us look back at our own lives and question our behavior more than what the \"other guys\" did, the anonymous crowd out there that's always easier to blame. (hide spoiler) ] I get that the point is that we never know how our deeds affect those around us--even the smallest cruelty can destroy someone--but where Hannah had the chance to show us how these thirteen faults add up to something, I expected more connecting the dots. All I got was a mention that their weight on top of everything else is the whole story. I wanted the whole story. Story nine was built up as the big event, a turning point that expounded the prior incidents to a climax that was too much, but after that I just became frustrated with Hannah and wanted to hear her name as one of the thirteen. She was given plenty of lifelines but refused them and then pulled people down with her. Like the last story. What was the point of that unless she wanted to ruin someone's life? Hannah deserved to be on some of these people's lists more than they deserved to be on hers. In the end, I think that it is a plus that Hannah isn't portrayed as a victim but fleshed out to both good and bad. It doesn't make suicide the natural answer. As I said before, the message in the book is good and I was into the story, breezing through it quickly. It was clever and different and will make you think or get angry or sad or proactive. I loved the play, pause, and stop icons too. I think it's an important YA novel and despite my nitpicking would recommend it. I wish Asher had taken a few more risks with his characters, but all-in-all a great debut novel. ...more Reviewed by Me for TeensReadToo.com I don't often write introductions to my reviews. In fact, the last time I can remember doing so was with the wonderful PUCKER by Melanie Gideon, which I read in 2006. However, THIRTEEN REASONS WHY, the debut novel from author Jay Asher, is the type of book that begs an introduction. So if you'd like to skip down to the third paragraph for the \"meat\" of the story, I won't hold it against you -- but you'll be missing something important. If you have the chance to Reviewed by Me for TeensReadToo.com I don't often write introductions to my reviews. In fact, the last time I can remember doing so was with the wonderful PUCKER by Melanie Gideon, which I read in 2006. However, THIRTEEN REASONS WHY, the debut novel from author Jay Asher, is the type of book that begs an introduction. So if you'd like to skip down to the third paragraph for the \"meat\" of the story, I won't hold it against you -- but you'll be missing something important. If you have the chance to only read one novel this year, THIRTEEN REASONS WHY should be that book. It's sad, amazing, heartbreaking, and hopeful, all at the same time. I dare you to read it and not become so immersed in the story that you lose track of time and your surroundings. You'll cry, several times, while reading this story. You'll have no choice but to think about your actions, and wonder what type of effect they have on other people. And, in the end, you might also find the need to say \"thank you.\" Now, on to the story... When Clay Jensen finds a package on his front porch, he's excited. A package, for him? With no return address? What could it possibly be? What Clay finds is a shoebox full of cassette tapes, each marked as \"Cassette 1: Side A,\" \"Cassette 1: Side B,\" etc. Of course he rushes to the old radio/cassette player in his dad's garage to check out these mysterious tapes. And soon wishes, wholeheartedly, that he'd never picked up that stupid package from his front porch. What he hears when he inserts that first tape is the voice of Hannah Baker. Hannah, the girl he'd crushed on for longer than he could remember. The girl he went to school with. The girl he worked at the movie theater with. The girl who had changed, drastically, in the last several months. Hannah Baker, the girl who committed suicide. Clay soon realizes that these tapes aren't just a suicide note, aren't, really, even a clear-cut rendition of why she did what she did. Instead, these are thirteen reasons -- thirteen people, to be exact -- who created a snowball-effect of events that led Hannah to believe that suicide was her only option. But why is Clay on that list? How could he possibly be one of the reasons that she killed herself? As the day goes on, Clay becomes obsessed with listening to the tapes. And what he hears frightens him, disturbs him, and, in the end, leads him to realizations that he never would have expected. As Clay listens to the role that thirteen people, including himself, led in the ultimate death of Hannah Baker, his view of the world, and himself, changes drastically. You will love this book, because you won't be able to help yourself. You will feel what Clay feels. You will, in a very strong way, experience the highs and lows of Hannah's life right along with her. And there is nothing, in my opinion, that could speak better for the authenticity of a book. Read THIRTEEN REASONS WHY. And then, if you're like me, you'll read it again. And, hopefully, none of us will ever forget it. ...more I really enjoyed this book. This book did a nice job explaining that suicide is not caused by one event alone. It is caused by many events that start to add up. I love the blend between the two narrators. There wasn't too many detail descriptions on all the rumors about Hannah and what Hannah did at the end of the book, which didn't make this too graphic. The ending was disappointing. You never found out how the last two characters reacted to the tapes. The whole thing with Skye is a little stran I really enjoyed this book. This book did a nice job explaining that suicide is not caused by one event alone. It is caused by many events that start to add up. I love the blend between the two narrators. There wasn't too many detail descriptions on all the rumors about Hannah and what Hannah did at the end of the book, which didn't make this too graphic. The ending was disappointing. You never found out how the last two characters reacted to the tapes. The whole thing with Skye is a little strange. Did he think she was suicidal, and that's why he wanted to talk to her? Did he have a crush on her, and decided he didn't want to miss the chance to be with her, like he did with Hannah? Summary: Clay receives a box full of tapes that tells what caused Hannah Baker to commit suicide. Each side of the tape had a reason that led up to her death. The first tape describes her first kiss with Justin Foley. It told us how they met and where they kissed. After this kiss, rumors started to go around that Hannah does more than kissing. The second tape describes how Alex Standall made the Who's Hot and Who's Not list. On this list Hannah was number one for Best Ass. After this list came out, someone at a gas station felt that it was ok to slap Hannah's ass, and tell her to relax. She felt uncomfortable when this person did this. The third tape describes how Hannah, Alex and a girl named Jessica Davis were friends once. All three of them were new students. A counselor set the meeting up between Jessica and Hannah to meet. They sort of hit it off and went to a coffee shop to talk. That's where they met Alex. Everyday all three of them met at this coffee shop to talk. Slowly Alex and Jessica stopped going there. Then one day Jessica wanted to meet at the coffee shop. She showed Hannah the Who's Hot and Who's not list. Jessica was on the Not side. Jessica was all bent out of shape because Alex chose Hannah over her. She mentions that she heard rumors about Hannah and Alex. They had a little fight, and Jessica hit Hannah. The fourth tape was about how Tyler Down was a peeping tm. Hannah noticed one night that someone was taking pictures of her when she was in her bedroom. The next day she told a girl in one of her classes about the peeping tom. The girl thought it was cool, and Hannah invited her over to see. Once they realize that they were getting their picture taken, they pretended to be naughty. Hannah was giving this girl a nice back massage. Eventually they were able to pull the shades up and saw the peeping tom with his pants down. After that Hannah started to keep her blinds closed, and she was not able to see the stars at night. The fifth tape was about how Courtney Crimsen (the same girl from the peeping tom chapter) was friendly to everyone. She used Hannah when it was convenient. One night Courtney needed a ride to a party, and she invited Hannah along. Once they got to this party the two girls split up. While they were separated Courtney started telling people that Hannah had some kinky things in her dresser at home. This gave the impression that she was a slut. The sixth tape was about how Marcus Cooley asked Hannah out. He got her number form a Valentine survey that the school did. He asked her out for ice cream at Rosie's after school. Hannah waited a half hour for Marcus at this restaurant. She was worried that he stood her up. When he finally arrived, he told her that he thought that this date was a joke, but he came by just in case Hannah thought it was real. With all the rumors flying around, Marcus thought that Hannah wouldn't mind if he felt her up. She did. She pushed him out of the booth and he called her a tease. The seventh tape Zach Dempsey started to take her encouragement notes in her Peer Communications class. She was upset about this because she was feeling bad and she really wanted to know that people cared about her. Also during this chapter, she submitted the subject of suicide to talk about in this class, and the class treated like it was stupid. How were they supposed to help a suicidal person, if they don't know who it is? The eighth tape Hannah started to take a poetry class to make her self feel better. Ryan Shaver, a student at the same school, was in there. She shared her poetry with him, and he published it the newspaper without her permission. The whole school ridiculed the poem and made her feel ashamed. The ninth tape brings Clay into Hannah's story. She describes how she was attracted to him because he had a good reputation, and she didn't. She heard that Clay was going to a party and she wanted to see him. Once Hannah and Clay met, they talked for a long time about deep, personal stuff. Hannah realized that she didn't want to get close to Clay, and tried to turn the conversation to a lighter subject matter. They eventually ended up at a room and she kissed Clay. They totally connected, however Hannah freaked out and told Clay to go away. Clay left her in a room all by herself. The tenth tape, Jessica and Justin walk into the room. Jessica was passed out, and wasn't responsive. Justin tried to get his groove thing on, and decided that it wasn't going to happen. Justin left the room, and one of his friends (we assume it is Bryce) came it and raped Jessica while she was out. This took a huge toll on Hannah. She was blaming herself because she was in the room and could have prevented it. The Eleventh tape, Hannah was so distraught that Jenny Kurtz offered her a ride home. Jenny crashed her car into a stop sign. Hannah told Jenny that she should park the car and walk home. Jenny didn't like that idea. Hannah told her to call the police. Jenny didn't want the police to track her. Jenny kicked Hannah out of the car, and Hannah walked to a gas station and called the police. She found out that there was an accident at that intersection, because one car didn't see the broke stop sign. The driver of one car died. Once again, Hannah felt horrible because she thought that she could have prevented this from happening. The twelfth tape, Hannah went over to Courtney's house after some party. She let Bryce, the same guy who grabbed her ass at the gas station, have sex with her. She wanted to feel as low as she could. She despised Bryce, but she let him have sex with her. The last tape was a recorded conversation between Mr. Porter and Hannah. She describe that she had sex with someone and didn't want her to. Since she didn't want to press charges, her options were to talk to Bryce w/ Mr. Porter, or just deal with it. She decided to just deal with it. During throughout this story we see Clay analyzing Hannah's actions. We see him fall apart as he realize that he could have helped her, if he really tried. ...more Hated it, hated it, hated it. DNFed at 30%. Do you know people who are suicidal? Has anyone close to you tried to kill themselves or had someone close to them kill themselves? My best friend growing up, her father committed suicide. I hope she never reads this book. People who are clinically depressed, people who feel like they have no other option but to kill themselves, don't do it because of a tiny, trivial reason. They do it because there is an imbalance in their brain, or something so horri Hated it, hated it, hated it. DNFed at 30%. Do you know people who are suicidal? Has anyone close to you tried to kill themselves or had someone close to them kill themselves? My best friend growing up, her father committed suicide. I hope she never reads this book. People who are clinically depressed, people who feel like they have no other option but to kill themselves, don't do it because of a tiny, trivial reason. They do it because there is an imbalance in their brain, or something so horrific happened to them that they feel like they can't live in their own skin anymore. If we hadn't had a glimpse inside of Hannah's head, I would have thought that maybe she was in a such a dark place that she felt like she had no other option but to kill herself. However, we hear Hannah voice throughout the story through her tapes. She doesn't sound depressed. She sounds vindictive and petty. Why doesn't she think about how her tapes could make someone else kill themselves, huh? To make it seem like a friend or loved one, doing something minor or mundane, could cause a suicide is a horrible seed to plant. It takes years for loved ones of suicide victims to stop blaming themselves. Does my childhood friend deserve to question, \"If I just cleaned my room or didn't yell at my dad that one last time, would he have not killed himself?\" NO. Sure, teenagers could be a lot nicer to each other. I'm all for anything that reduces bullying and objectifying of women. If readers take away that message from this book, than I guess I'm okay with that on some level. But for the reader who struggles with bipolar disorder or clinical depression, the teen with the mom who won't get out of bed, the husband whose wife ODs on pills... please don't read this book. Don't dissect your life and think about what you could have done differently. Maybe this book greatly improved after 30%. Maybe we find out more about Hannah after that point. I wasn't interested enough to find out. ...more THIRTEEN REASONS WHY is not what I expected. I had this book on my reading list for a couple of years. When a GR friend of mine read it recently, and rated it 1-star, I thought that maaaaaaaybe she was over-reacting a little- and bumped it up on my list to see what had set her off. Now I know. *Yaaaaaay* If I had reviewed this a couple of days ago- this would have been a scathing angry review (which is why I waited) I don't like writing scathing angry reviews- and maaaaaaaany people loved this bo THIRTEEN REASONS WHY is not what I expected. I had this book on my reading list for a couple of years. When a GR friend of mine read it recently, and rated it 1-star, I thought that maaaaaaaybe she was over-reacting a little- and bumped it up on my list to see what had set her off. Now I know. *Yaaaaaay* If I had reviewed this a couple of days ago- this would have been a scathing angry review (which is why I waited) I don't like writing scathing angry reviews- and maaaaaaaany people loved this book. I am just not one of those people. [image error] High school student Clay Jensen, returns home from school to find a mysterious package on his doorstep. Inside is a shoe box containing seven cassette tapes recorded by- Hannah Baker -his classmate and school crush- who committed suicide by taking pills just days before. The tapes had been previously mailed to one classmate with instructions to pass them from one student to another. Thirteen people in total- people who Hannah felt were in some way, responsible for her decision to end her life. [image error] I had a really hard time with the way THIRTEEN REASONS WHY was written. Told from two POV- Hannah's voice on tape, and Clay's reaction to it. Clay cutting into Hannah's thoughts throughout, was veeeeeeeery distracting for me. I also didn't like Hannah one little bit- I found her overly dramatic, selfish, hypocritical, vengeful, sulky, and frustrating. I kept thinking if I just continued reading- eventually I would find out what had pushed her over the edge, and be able to finally connect with her character- but instead Hannah ended up becoming one of villains in this story for me- instead of the victim she perceived herself to be. ...more This book is tricky to recommend to say the least. On the one hand, this book is packed with suspense. It presents the very \"It's a Wonderful Life\"-esque but worthwhile message that one person's behavior can have a ripple effect in a community, that there is no such thing as a meaningless act. It shows teens that even a person who might appear on the surface to be collected, attractive, smart, funny, and moderately popular could have real problems and could feel lonely or rejected. It shows the This book is tricky to recommend to say the least. On the one hand, this book is packed with suspense. It presents the very \"It's a Wonderful Life\"-esque but worthwhile message that one person's behavior can have a ripple effect in a community, that there is no such thing as a meaningless act. It shows teens that even a person who might appear on the surface to be collected, attractive, smart, funny, and moderately popular could have real problems and could feel lonely or rejected. It shows the dangerous simultaneous power and hollowness of gossip. If you're not afraid of being a little controversial, I think this would make a bang-up book for a teen book discussion group because you would have a forum to discuss and debate these things and make sense of them along with the more troubling aspects, especially the main one, which is... This is a revenge story. Hannah Baker is a girl surrounded by admirers and would-be friends, as well as some pretty toxic people,to say the least. In the end, she is influenced by the wrong crowd. The accumulated slings and arrows from the latter group deepen a growing depression (with all likelihood literal Depression) and she commits suicide. She records the reasons behind her decision onto a set of tapes that are passed on to very people that did her wrong. While Hannah staunchly believes she gave people enough of a chance to intervene, it also becomes clear that to a point, she didn't really let anyone really know her at all, and so everyone was set to fail. While some of the wrongs committed by her former enemies are grave enough to perhaps merit the blackmail that follows (a second set of tapes are be released to the public if the original tapes aren't passed along as instructed), the reader feels the guilt, pain, regret, and helplessness of the narrator (who is one of the recipients) so keenly that the reader must question whether if the punishment in some cases isn't worse than the crime. One hopes that at the end, the teen reader would see the big waste of it all, the destruction of a life, the ruins of the lives left behind, the hollowness of a triumph under such conditions, the error all around (on Hannah's part as well as the others)--and not just the fact that the bad guys pay dearly at the end, but that's what a good discussion could bring out. ...more So, look. The story is going to be a little trite for some readers, but this is definitely written for an 'outside' audience that hasn't been affected by suicide. In an interview included in the back of my copy of the book, Asher says he drew on the experience of a close family member and there was a specific message he hoped to send about how our actions can hurt others. I think he definitely wrote the story he intended and did it well, but it's also very nuanced. Hannah was hurt by her classma So, look. The story is going to be a little trite for some readers, but this is definitely written for an 'outside' audience that hasn't been affected by suicide. In an interview included in the back of my copy of the book, Asher says he drew on the experience of a close family member and there was a specific message he hoped to send about how our actions can hurt others. I think he definitely wrote the story he intended and did it well, but it's also very nuanced. Hannah was hurt by her classmates, but she also caused some hurts she felt guilty about. She placed blame on others, but also accepted responsibility. It isn't going to ring true to everyone's experience, but this is a great starting point to get teenagers or younger readers to examine not only how they interact with their peers but also how they manage their own thoughts. I did listen to the audiobook, as it has been recommended to me as being a fitting format for the audiotapes. It was done very well and the voice actors gave great emotion to the story. ...more It's books like this that I remember why I do not read YA. I thought it was a unique idea for a story but it was just shite. Awful Awful book. I hope no one suicidal or anyone that has seen the effects of suicide ever reads this. Thirteen Reasons Why, Jay Asher's Song of Suicide for Duet I have been one acquainted with the night. I have walked out in rain -- and back in rain. I have outwalked the furthest city light.--Robert Frost The facts are grim, but true. Suicide is the third leading cause of death for young people aged fifteen to twenty-four. It is the fourth leading cause of death for children aged ten to fourteen. The statistics are compiled by the United States Center for Disease Control. Although contributing factor Thirteen Reasons Why, Jay Asher's Song of Suicide for Duet I have been one acquainted with the night. I have walked out in rain -- and back in rain. I have outwalked the furthest city light.--Robert Frost The facts are grim, but true. Suicide is the third leading cause of death for young people aged fifteen to twenty-four. It is the fourth leading cause of death for children aged ten to fourteen. The statistics are compiled by the United States Center for Disease Control. Although contributing factors may vary from case to case, the most common factor is depression, the belief that life is overwhelming and that death is a welcome escape. But statistics are nothing but numbers. Jay Asher with his novel Th1rteen R3asons Why , has brought a mere number to life in Hannah Baker's story. Hannah commits suicide by taking pills. She has reasons--thirteen of them. And she has left no doubt as to what those reasons are by recording her reasons and naming the people who are responsible for her decision. It is ghoulish in a way. Hannah has mailed her cassette tapes to one person with explicit instructions that after listening to the tapes that person mail them to the next person on the list. If her audial chain letter is broken, she's made a backup copy which will be made public. It's unlikely anyone will break the chain because Hannah tells secrets no one would want revealed. Hannah's story begins simply enough. She's the new girl at the local high school. She's pretty. Her parents have opened up a new shoe store in town. But Hannah's problems begin quite soon. She's put down as number one on the \"Hot\" list being circulated around school. Never mind it's not true. Now, Hannah's the girl with the reputation. She is the constant target of snubs and snickers. But then there's Clay. He's the boy who is known school wide as the good kid. Why would he be on Hannah's list of thirteen reasons? Perhaps it's because he folded to peer pressure and didn't ask her out because of what \"they\" would say. However, Clay's conduct comes nowhere close to approaching that of his classmates, including stalking, voyeurism, sexual harassment, and out and out rape. It is through Clay that Asher makes his story so compelling. Asher has written two distinct narratives, one for Hannah and one for Clay. He has intermingled Hannah's voice on the tape with Clay's immediate reaction to what he has just heard. It is effective. It works. And it is this technique that makes Thirteen Reasons Why read like a bullet. Asher has done a good deed writing this book. It carries a strong message that our behaviors, no matter their degree have an effect on the feelings of others. This novel is a plea for empathy and respect for each other. As Hannah tells us,\"I guess that's the point of it all. No one knows for certain how much of impact they have on the lives of other people. Often we have no clue.\" Asher has hit his target audience. Just take a quick visit to the Thirteen R3asons Why Project and peruse some of the comments from young people who have read this book. http://www.13rwproject.com/#/reviews/368 Is Thirteen Reasons Why perfect? No. Asher falters in a few crucial areas. Hannah's parents are non-existent. We never get to know them, nor have any inkling of Hannah's relationship with them. Nor does any villain ever seem to suffer the consequences for their behavior, not even a rapist. Finally, this could be a dangerous story in the hands of a troubled teen. For Hannah plays the ultimate game of \"Gotcha!\" Unfortunately, to win, you have to die. This is a good read. It's tough, sad, and tragic. But it carries a message more positive than negative. 3.5 Rating ...more This is a tough one. As I write this review I am still undecided what rating I will give. I'm hoping that towards the end of this review I can already decide. I'd give it a perfect rating if I'll just base it on the ingenious storytelling. As I was reading it, there are three stories being told. One is the story of Clay Jensen while listening to the tapes. Second, Hannah Baker's story as she narrates the consecutive events that leads her to suicide. And the last would be your own story. It made me This is a tough one. As I write this review I am still undecided what rating I will give. I'm hoping that towards the end of this review I can already decide. I'd give it a perfect rating if I'll just base it on the ingenious storytelling. As I was reading it, there are three stories being told. One is the story of Clay Jensen while listening to the tapes. Second, Hannah Baker's story as she narrates the consecutive events that leads her to suicide. And the last would be your own story. It made me feel so bad, so guilty. I'm not on the list of people that cause her death but its as if I'm part of it. Certainly not her list but of people I got acquainted with. It made me wonder what have I done or haven't done to people I have interacted with, intentionally or unintentionally. Yeah, you would say that I felt guilty because I knew that I definitely did something wrong. Go ahead, mock me, I know I deserve it but when you're finished, let me know so it'll be my turn to mock you for the jackass actions you have done. The thing is, no one is innocent. Everyone has done something bad, no matter how big or small it is. If there's anyone who will say that they haven't done such a thing, let me tell you this: Go.To.Hell! Oh, you think you deserve heaven cause you are good person doing only good things to people. Well, no, you deserve hell cause if there is a person that is the most deserving to go to hell it would be the liars and in denials. I hated Hannah Baker. Yes, Hannah Baker, if you are reading this, wherever you are, I hate you and fuck you. At first I felt sympathy for you, being a girl that ended her life because of the people around you. But as I hear(or read) your tapes stating your reasons, I am learning to hate you. I understand that these people have done something wrong to you but they are the reason and not the one to blame why you committed suicide. No one is to blame Hannah but yourself. You over analyze things, you're too sensitive and if your Science teacher haven't told you yet, let me tell you that the world revolves around the sun, not around you. You feel bad cause there are rumors going around that is against you. You should not feel bad cause at least there are people spending their time thinking about you. To them, you are somebody and not a nobody. Bad reputation is still a reputation and be glad of that cause at least you are not invisible. And Gahd, Hannah. You are not contented on ending your life. You created tapes that will be passed around the people who are the \"reasons\" of your suicide. Tapes that will certainly make them feel miserable and can ruin their whole lives. Yes, you deserve to get back on with them for their \"cruelty\" to you but you don't have to do that. You're not defenseless on the times they've been hard on you, you can stand up for yourself but what you have to them done is worse. You've attacked them knowing that they would be defenseless, cause who in this world can stand up against a dead girl?! You didn't left them any choice but to suck all the blame. You are worse than the guy who ruined a girl's(not yours) life cause you didn't ruin just one, you ruined 13 lives(no. I didn't get it wrong. It is still 13 cause you also ruined the life of the person who has the second set of tapes.). And you know what's the most unbelievable thing you did, you treated everything, the passing around of tapes and journey according to your map, like it was a game. How cruel can that be! There, I already released my thoughts. I feel much lighter now. If there is something good this book has brought me, it is how it reminds me and made me think of how huge impact on a persons life I can make. That the tiniest action I will do can affect others big time. It magnified the changes , bad or good, to a person's life that I can contribute.(So friends, my parents and my siblings, if you notice a drastic change on my behavior towards how I treat you, be thankful to Jay Asher. He's the man!) ...more Jay Asher's debut novel \"Thirteen Reasons Why\" is certainly one of those books that give YA a good name. This is a book that stays with you for a long time. The subject matter is definitely not easy or comfortable. This is a story of Hannah, a teenage girl who commits suicide and leaves behind a series of tapes addressed to people who she finds more or less responsible for her decision to end her life. The story is told from the point of view of Clay, Hannah's classmate and one of the people she Jay Asher's debut novel \"Thirteen Reasons Why\" is certainly one of those books that give YA a good name. This is a book that stays with you for a long time. The subject matter is definitely not easy or comfortable. This is a story of Hannah, a teenage girl who commits suicide and leaves behind a series of tapes addressed to people who she finds more or less responsible for her decision to end her life. The story is told from the point of view of Clay, Hannah's classmate and one of the people she addresses her tapes to. We listen to the tapes together with Clay who reminisces about Hannah and reacts to Hannah's revelations. The journey is dark, as we experience Hannah's descent from the excitement of moving to a new place and first love, to disillusionment in those she thought to be her friends, to loss of trust and privacy, to disappointment in herself and finally to ultimate self-destruction. Many would think Hannah's decision unjustified. I (although I've never considered suicide) came to understand her. And in fact, just like Clay, came to realize that any action (and even inaction), no matter how small or insignificant it is, might deeply affect someone else's life and even become that dreadful \"last straw.\" The format of the book is very clever and impactful, however I found myself distracted at times by the quick shifts between Hannah's and Clay's narrations. In these instances I noticed I was skipping Clay's POV to move on to Hannah's. Otherwise this is a remarkable novel which deserves recognition. I am curious to see what the author writes about next. ...more This book is heartbreaking, hurtful but unfortunately, it is the ugly truth. It broadens my knowledge and eyesight about other people's feeling, especially teenagers' and how one can easily hurt another with what seems to be a small, meaningless action. The main character in this story is a boy named Clay who one day came home to a box of 13 tapes, each represents a reason why his friend at school Hannah Baker chose to end her life. He was devastated to figure it all out because of the fact that This book is heartbreaking, hurtful but unfortunately, it is the ugly truth. It broadens my knowledge and eyesight about other people's feeling, especially teenagers' and how one can easily hurt another with what seems to be a small, meaningless action. The main character in this story is a boy named Clay who one day came home to a box of 13 tapes, each represents a reason why his friend at school Hannah Baker chose to end her life. He was devastated to figure it all out because of the fact that if he received these tapes, he is one of the reasons why. Eventually, Clay played all of the tapes and was able to face this pain, which is in the worst way possible. Jay Asher has chosen the subject of sucide, which is a really sensitive topic to say but I love the idea that he tries to show us this new perspective, in which \"everything affects everything\". ...more Me ha sorprendido, tanto para bien como para mal. Una de las principales razones que me han llevado a leer este libro despu\u00e9s de tenerlo tantos a\u00f1os es por su serie de Netflix (s\u00ed, mucha gente no lo sabe. Se estrena el 31 de marzo, tendr\u00e1 trece cap\u00edtulos y tiene muy, muy buena pinta.) Me han gustado algunas cosas, pero no me han gustado otras. El balance general es bueno, eso s\u00ed, aunque tampoco sea un libro que me haya maravillado. El estilo del autor es curioso y utiliza algunas t\u00e9cnicas poco vis Me ha sorprendido, tanto para bien como para mal. Una de las principales razones que me han llevado a leer este libro despu\u00e9s de tenerlo tantos a\u00f1os es por su serie de Netflix (s\u00ed, mucha gente no lo sabe. Se estrena el 31 de marzo, tendr\u00e1 trece cap\u00edtulos y tiene muy, muy buena pinta.) Me han gustado algunas cosas, pero no me han gustado otras. El balance general es bueno, eso s\u00ed, aunque tampoco sea un libro que me haya maravillado. El estilo del autor es curioso y utiliza algunas t\u00e9cnicas poco vistas en juvenil -y menos en 2007. Por trece razones es un libro diferente. Cuenta dos historias al mismo tiempo, pero no creo que eso est\u00e9 bien llevado. Hay algunas partes donde se hace muy cuesta arriba y otras donde realmente funciona. Es hacia el final cuando me fue convenciendo, pero al principio me pareci\u00f3 una excusa para rellenar. La historia de Hannah es realmente dura. Est\u00e1 bien presentada y se tratan temas complicados que desde luego no se suelen tratar en literatura juvenil, y mucho menos de ese modo. Se habla de violaci\u00f3n, abuso, depresi\u00f3n... Y se trata desde el respeto, presentando los hechos, haciendo que el lector piense. Los personajes secundarios, los que hacen que la vida de Hannah se convierta en la pesadilla que hace que decida suicidarse, consiguen hacer la historia interesante. A partir de la cuarta cinta m\u00e1s o menos me parecieron muy variados e interesantes, o al menos as\u00ed lo eran sus historias. Al libro le cuesta arrancar, y el final es tambi\u00e9n un poco decepcionante. En general es una novela que me ha entretenido, que tiene un mensaje poderoso e importante, y que me ha gustado. Pero tiene fallos importantes en el personaje principal, en el ritmo... Adem\u00e1s, el factor misterio no est\u00e1 del todo bien llevado, y me falta a\u00fan m\u00e1s contenido de Hannah y Clay. La recomiendo porque creo que es interesante, y tengo muchas ganas de ver la serie. ...more", "Title": "Thirteen Reasons Why"},
