{"Comments": "\u201cMy Tom died as babies do, gently and without complaint. Because they have been such a little time with us, they seem to hold to life but weakly. I used to wonder if it was so because the memory of Heaven still lived within them, so that in leaving here they do not fear death as we do, who no longer know with certainty where it is our spirits go. This,<---M> I thought</---M>, must be the kindness that God does for them and for us, since He gives so many infants such a little while to bide with us.\u201d 1666 was \u201cMy Tom died as babies do, gently and without complaint. Because they have been such a little time with us, they seem to hold to life but weakly. I used to wonder if it was so because the memory of Heaven still lived within them, so that in leaving here they do not fear death as we do, who no longer know with certainty where it is our spirits go. This, I thought, must be the kindness that God does for them and for us, since He gives so many infants such a little while to bide with us.\u201d 1666 was not a good year for England with bubonic plague killing 100,000 people followed by The Great Fire of London which destroyed 80% of London or about 13,000 homes. It is hard for us to conceive of a disease that can show up one day and within a few short months kill 75% of the people we know. To survive is fortuitous, but to actually acquire the disease and survive is nothing short of miraculous. The first signs were bulges at the groin called buboes. Can you imagine the bone chilling fear that would course through your body at the first appearance of such bulges? George Viccars, a tailor, made a very innocuous decision to order a bolt of cloth from London. He used the cloth to make fashionable dresses for the ladies of Eyam little did he know the cloth was infested with plague carrying fleas. The plague kills Viccars first and spreads quickly from family to family taking the youngest and fittest in greatest numbers. William Mompellion, the minister of the shire, makes the heroic decision to quarantine the town and contain the contagion. Through the eyes of <---C>Anna Frith</---C> we are exposed to the devastating effects of fear and loss on the small community. Death brings opportunity to some and sends others into object poverty. Anna, though besot by her own demons, does the best she can to not only survive her personal losses, but also make the fateful decision to devout her life providing help and succor to those who need it most. The midwives, medicine women, who command a deep knowledge of herbs and roots that would provide the most help during an outbreak of a deadly disease are the first to be treated with distrust. Their knowledge is looked on as magical well beyond the understanding of an under educated population. You would have thought these women had green skin and made grand statements like \"I'll get you my pretty.\" , but they were just women interested in understanding the world around them and making the best use of what nature provided. \"And so, as generally happens, those who have most give least, and those with less somehow make shrift to share.\" The rich flee Eyam and the rest stay, intent on riding out the worst of the contagion. They had no conception of just how horrible things were going to get. This is based on a true story. The book shows people at their very best and their very worst. It made me consider what I would do. Could I be as brave as Anna? Could I support the leadership of a Minister intent on keeping me and my family in harms way? Could I help those already infected? There are many things to admire in this tale.<---F> The ending though is odd</---F>. I notice that other reviewers mentioned the ending and I agree it was unexpected, but maybe we are all just underestimating the courage and determination of one woman. Two other plague novels that I really liked are Company Of Liars by Karen Maitland and The Pesthouse by Jim Crace. I have no reviews for them; unfortunately, because I read them before finding the wonderful community of goodreads. Company of Liars is told in a similar vein to Chaucer's The Canterbury Tales and Pesthouse is a postapocalyptic America regressed to Medieval conditions. If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.com I also have a Facebook blogger page at: https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten ...more Rarely has a book so captivated and then disappointed me with such a 180 turn to what I called utter \"dreckage\". <+++>Year of Wonders</+++> managed to do this, infortunately. In order to review, I have to break the book up between pages so that you can see where the trainwreck happened for me, and why I'm so PO'ed I could almost cry.... REVIEW FOR PAGES 1-255 Rating: 5 stars (I'd give it 10 stars if Goodreads had that designation, but since 5 stars means it was amazing , then 5 stars it is) <+++>Year of Wonders</+++>: Pag Rarely has a book so captivated and then disappointed me with such a 180 turn to what I called utter \"dreckage\". Year of Wonders managed to do this, infortunately. In order to review, I have to break the book up between pages so that you can see where the trainwreck happened for me, and why I'm so PO'ed I could almost cry.... REVIEW FOR PAGES 1-255 Rating: 5 stars (I'd give it 10 stars if Goodreads had that designation, but since 5 stars means it was amazing , then 5 stars it is) Year of Wonders: Pages 1-255 is a beautiful, incredibly moving fictional account of a real event that happened in Eyam (\"Eem\"), Derbyshire, England in 1665-1666. Today, road signs point out the direction to \"Plague Village\", so I think you get the idea of where this story is going to go.... The villagers of Eyam were ground zero for an outbreak of bubonic plague that had apparently been introduced to the remote village from flea infested bolts of cloth brought into the town. Best guess estimates of the population in 1665 set it around 380 villagers. By the fall of 1666, only about 120 were left. While people all over London and other places in England were hurriedly leaving the areas of plague infection, the villagers of Eyam, under the strong guidance of their pastor Michael Mompellion, decided to stay put, self-quarantine themselves and ride out the storm. They saw it as a test of their faith and trust toward God, and felt that they would be blessed beyond all measure once the plague left them. Author <---A>Geraldine Brooks</---A> tells this story through the eyes of Anna, a young widow with 2 very small children to support. Anna's role in helping Michael Mompellion and his high born wife Elinor shines the light on all that was the very best of human nature during a time of crisis, as well as what was the very worst in human beings stretched physically, emotionally and spiritually beyond their endurance. Brooks married the two extremes so well, weaving a highly readable tale of immense pain, degradation, fear, and ultimately faith. I was appalled later, (when I googled Eyam), to learn that many of the incidences Brooks used in the book were true. Human beings definitely have the capacity for both extreme nobility of spirit, as well as extreme barbarism. If Brooks had left the story of the plague village at page 255, I would have happily accorded this wonderful book a cherished slot in my bulging bookcase and marked it as \"favorite\" on these, my Goodreads shelves. Alas, the book was 304 pages long. Therefore, we come to book-review-within-a-review: BOOK REVIEW FOR PAGE 256-304 Rating 1 star (My feeling for these final 50 pages can best be summed up by the word: aaaarrrggghhh.) Year of Wonders: Page 256-304 must be read in connection with the first 255 pages to be fully believed. It is EPIC FAIL at it's most EPIC. It is so crammed with schlocky, hokey, trite piles of plot shite that I can hardly believe that it's written by the same author as my beloved book, Year of Wonders: Page 1-255 . How is this possible? Did Brooks suddenly seize up and hand over the pen to some Harlequin romance writer? (please, no PO'd posts by Harlequin fans - I happen to enjoy Harlequins in small doses myself, but there IS a difference in quality between the two writing mediums). What Brooks did so perfectly in pages 1-255, she completely decimated in pages 256-304. Was she attempting to pull off her own mini-plague by killing off all the good and noble and faithful ideas her story fostered? WTH happened to plot continuity? To the characters? I am so confused by her ending that I don't even know what to say about it, except that (view spoiler) [ I'M PISSED, PISSED, PISSED (hide spoiler) ] and I know I need to calm down and go drink some herbal tea... ...back from my herbal tea break: OK, so now I've come to the end of my rambling, stupid review. I've had a chance to read some 1 and 2 star reviews from other more gifted GR reviewers, and I see that they did a 100% better job of detailing why this book had so much ruined potential, so I'll just stop. ...more I would have given this a higher rating if not for the strange ending. After reading \"Long Man\", by Amy Greene, not long ago....I was craving to read about another female character that 'might' remind me of Annie Clyde Dodson. I also wanted the story - like \"Long Man\" to be inspired by true events.... and last...I wanted the writing to be gorgeous - rich, beautiful prose.....character driven...realistic... I wanted to get in touch with that 'feeling' which is different than the many modern contemporary novels I read. \"YEAR of WONDER\" was the perfect choice ....it sat After reading \"Long Man\", by Amy Greene, not long ago....I was craving to read about another female character that 'might' remind me of Annie Clyde Dodson. I also wanted the story - like \"Long Man\" to be inspired by true events.... and last...I wanted the writing to be gorgeous - rich, beautiful prose.....character driven...realistic... I wanted to get in touch with that 'feeling' which is different than the many modern contemporary novels I read. \"YEAR of WONDER\" was the perfect choice ....it satisfied what I was longing for. Yikes So much is so darn sad!!! The character, Anna Frith, leading female, inspired me, and comforted me with her calm kindness. This was another book - I couldn't put down.... page turning engrossing! The PROSE is exquisite. The rich 'quality' was all there that I was looking for. The writing blew me away. A dark story...with writing that exceeds your expectation - thoughts will linger. If you liked \"Long Man\", you'll love \"Year of Wonder\".....or vice versa). ...more Anna Frith resides in a remote village where a bolt of cloth delivered from London brings with it the bubonic plague. Guided by a vision bestowed upon the town minister, Anna and her village elect to quarantine themselves, hoping to prevent the plague from spreading. Days of quarantine turn into weeks. As the months come and go, villagers grow restless. Death is prevalent in every household; suspicion and anger mount as villagers yearn for someone to blame for their plight. Anna soon faces far g Anna Frith resides in a remote village where a bolt of cloth delivered from London brings with it the bubonic plague. Guided by a vision bestowed upon the town minister, Anna and her village elect to quarantine themselves, hoping to prevent the plague from spreading. Days of quarantine turn into weeks. As the months come and go, villagers grow restless. Death is prevalent in every household; suspicion and anger mount as villagers yearn for someone to blame for their plight. Anna soon faces far greater perils than the devastating plague. Year of Wonders is brimming with the same elegant, beguiling prose one can anticipate from any book written by Geraldine Brooks. At the edge of the field, the hedgerows were deep green in their glossy leaves and the blackberries beginning to plump and redden. Fat lambs, their fleeces gilded by sunlight, grazed in lush grasses. Instead, I lingered in the quiet grove behind the church, where the old graves are. It is a lumpy place, where the ground has heaved and sighed into grassy mounds and the briar roses tumbled in a bright profusion of ruddied hips over graves whose markings are weathered and barely legible. While the village is portrayed as a beautiful place any would be lucky to wander, the author depicts the horrors of the plague with equal skill, making use of ghastly descriptions that spare no detail: The day of his death, the strange circles bloomed on him: vivid crimson welts rising in rings just beneath the topmost layer of his skin. As the hours passed, these turned violet then purple-black, hardening into crusts. It seemed as if the flesh inside of him was dying while he yet breathed, the putrefying meat pushing and bursting its way out of his failing body. Eighteen-year-old Anna Frith remains a fascinating character from start to finish. She faces many hardships but remains a strong woman with a loving heart, befriending outcasts and dabbling in perilous medicinal trades. Despite the many dreadful events she bears witness to, Anna maintains a tender view of the world. [He] died as babies do, gently and without complaint. Because they have been such a little time with us, they seem to hold to life but weakly. I used to wonder if it was so because the memory of Heaven still lived within them, so that in leaving here they do not fear death as we do, who no longer know with certainty where it is our spirits go. This, I thought, must be the kindness that God does for them and for us, since He give so many infants such a little while to bide with us. Occasionally the pacing in Year of Wonders stumbles and slows, but it always picks up again and eventually arrives at one of the most satisfying conclusions of any book yet read. ...more A lot of people have complained about this book being slow, but I found it beautifully paced for what it was about--after all, the title is \"Year of Wonders,\" which kind of sets up an expectation and timeframe right away. The pace helped set up a world, a time when things moved more slowly, when people were more thoughtful, when people paid attention to the seasons and nature. This is a beautifully narrated, incredibly seamless (for the amount of research that must have been put into to it, it r A lot of people have complained about this book being slow, but I found it beautifully paced for what it was about--after all, the title is \"Year of Wonders,\" which kind of sets up an expectation and timeframe right away. The pace helped set up a world, a time when things moved more slowly, when people were more thoughtful, when people paid attention to the seasons and nature. This is a beautifully narrated, incredibly seamless (for the amount of research that must have been put into to it, it reads so smoothly) novel. I liked the evolution of the protagonist, the way she gained power and still moved within her role in society. That being said, the ending just friggin' killed it for me. It was totally Hollywood-ized and a total cop out. At turns a romance, a horror, and an action-adventure--in 20 or so pages--but really bad. Bad, like \"Who killed Bobby Ewing?\" bad. Sigh. I was really pulling for 4 stars here, and then the ending is .5 or 1 star. So it averaged out to a heavily weighted 2 stars. ...more Year of Wonder offers a you-are-there account of the plague year of 1666 in the English countryside, seen through the eyes of Anna Frith, a young maid, widowed with two young boys. The inspiration for the story is the actual village of Eyam, in Derbyshire. After it was clear that the plague had set up shop in their village, the residents elected to voluntarily quarantine themselves for the duration. Eyam is the only locale known to have taken on such a selfless burden. And so it is with the fict Year of Wonder offers a you-are-there account of the plague year of 1666 in the English countryside, seen through the eyes of Anna Frith, a young maid, widowed with two young boys. The inspiration for the story is the actual village of Eyam, in Derbyshire. After it was clear that the plague had set up shop in their village, the residents elected to voluntarily quarantine themselves for the duration. Eyam is the only locale known to have taken on such a selfless burden. And so it is with the fictitious village here. As residents die in increasing numbers Rector Mompellion pleads with them to willingly confine themselves to the borders of their village, lest they carry the contagion abroad. Most agree, and remain. Brooks shows the stages of the contagion, from the first plague death, a boarder in Anna\u2019s home, to the clear spread of pestilence to increasing numbers of residents, to the hysteria of the ignorant, looking for someone to blame. The payload in Year of Wonders is the up close and personal look Brooks offers of what it was like to live through the Black Death, both in glimpses of the physical travails suffered by plague victims and in the impact of the steep population reduction on the functioning of society. The late 17th Century was the era of the Restoration. Charles II was the king. The Cromwell era had come to an end, and Puritanism was losing its\u2019 hold on the population. This tension appears in the Year of Wonders as characters move from a strictly drab wardrobe to one with some brightness, the town adjusts to the change from a Puritanical cleric to one with a less severe view of human nature. We also see the very harsh struggle of believers with their faith. How could a loving God allow such an abomination as the plague? Brooks captures some of the madness of the time as a pre-scientific view of causality leads some villagers to scapegoat women who were healers, seeing in their knowledge a power that was inexplicable and thus unacceptable. A clear case of \u201cIgnorance is Power\u201d that persists to this day. The payload is the thing here, the close look at the time, the plague, the Restoration. But the way one delivers that material is via characters and story. The book reads fast. It is engaging and interesting. But Anna Frith seemed to me a character drawn with a very 21st century sensibility. She is a feminist heroine, overcoming the limited choices of 1666, using her superior intelligence, and working in a dose of entrepreneurialism to boot. While there may have been elements of scientific curiosity extant at the time, it is doubtful that those currents would have flowed as far as remote English mountain villages. Thus Anna and Elinor\u2019s (the rector\u2019s wife) sense that good nutrition, to be obtained through the wise application of natural herbs, was a way to combat illness seems unlikely. The attitude of Anys Gowdie (an herbalist and healer) towards sexuality also seems remarkably modern for 1666. I have found that in some books with a feminist theme (or even most mixed gender TV commercials showing married people, for that matter) there is a lot of oversimplification. Women good, men bad, or stupid. Yes, I know that in Year of Wonders there are evil females as well, and there were plenty of bad men to go around, but the only truly good (as far as we know), liberated man (George Viccar) gets whacked early on. No, Sam (Anna\u2019s late husband) does not count, being rather a simpleton. And after portraying the rector so positively throughout (Yes, I did note the signal tantrum) it seems a cheat that she consigns him to the evil-men pile. There were hints of bodice ripping in the earlier chapters that made me wonder if I had inadvertently picked up a romance. Thankfully that abated. Anna Frith is allowed to make some errors of judgment, but it seems that this is only to offset her general perfection. She is almost too-good, too-strong, and I confess that this got on my nerves a bit. She lands on her feet so consistently that she might have been a centipede. So, while I did enjoy the book, and learned a bit about the time (always welcome) I had issues. If you want to learn some more about the Black Death, you might want to check out In the Wake of the Plague . Medieval historian Norman Cantor looks at an earlier (1348-1350) plague and examines the societal and historical impact. Good stuff. ...more Update: Mar 29/13--I don't know why I did it, but the very fact that I did it (finished this book) was going to lead me to up it to three stars. But now that I've done it I'M TAKING THIS DOWN TO ONE STAR -- HOLY MOLY AND GOLLY GEE WILLIKERS BUT I AM P.O.'d AT THIS BOOK. None of the last 50pp - new character development COMPLETELY in opposition and nonsensical to anything that went before, new sub-plots suggested and followed - were either necessary or sensible. ALL of it was entirely a contrivan Update: Mar 29/13--I don't know why I did it, but the very fact that I did it (finished this book) was going to lead me to up it to three stars. But now that I've done it I'M TAKING THIS DOWN TO ONE STAR -- HOLY MOLY AND GOLLY GEE WILLIKERS BUT I AM P.O.'d AT THIS BOOK. None of the last 50pp - new character development COMPLETELY in opposition and nonsensical to anything that went before, new sub-plots suggested and followed - were either necessary or sensible. ALL of it was entirely a contrivance to (view spoiler) [get Anna out of the country and (hide spoiler) ] end the damn thing. WOW. That is bad. That is like creative writing 101 what not to do. And the MELODRAMA! Like a 60s soap opera, it was! As the bodies piled up, all I could think of was this: Bring Out Yer Dead . Everything about this is, as I said below: contrived, overwrought, OVERWRITTEN, clumsy, unconvincing. I am done with YoW. DONE. ______ I\u2019ve started and re-started this book twice, and am now putting it down a third and final time about half-way through. [ETA: for some ungodly reason, I picked it up again! I am still reading! The Plague: she has a hold on me! It's crazeeeeeee!!!] I first picked it up coming off of 880 pages of the detail-rich, psychologically-nuanced density of Middlemarch . I thought perhaps it was not really a fair test \u2013 sort of like drinking an Italian pinot grigio after an Australian shiraz. And then I thought, ok \u2013 maybe I need something lighter than plague and pestilence right now. It\u2019s not you, Geraldine, it\u2019s me. Or rather, it\u2019s George Eliot \u2013 you can\u2019t compete; don\u2019t even try. So I put it down and picked up Louise Erdrich (not literally, you silly thing). Consumed The Beet Queen , licked my fingers, dove back into Year of Wonders. Well, Erdrich can make humdrum domestic scenes leap off the page with eccentric characterizations, hysterically funny observations, and poetry in even the most mundane detail. Sorry, Geraldine. It\u2019s not you, it\u2019s Louise Erdrich. Another totally unfair test. Angel food cake after a dark chocolate torte. But c\u2019mon. Can there be anything more inherently dramatic and gut-wrenching than the plague? With content like this, shouldn\u2019t Geraldine have an easy time of pulling us into the story and keeping us there? Well, no. Contrived, overwrought, clumsy, unconvincing. It\u2019s not that it was poorly researched \u2013 it was that the research showed through too transparently, but didn\u2019t translate into compelling scenes or characters. List for me all the plants that a 17th C herbalist/healer would have in her garden \u2013 impressive, but irrelevant. Show me a scene where her fellow villagers try to drown her in a well to see if she\u2019s a witch \u2013 great potential. But fell flat on the page because you didn\u2019t make me care about her first. One thing in particular that was annoying was the dialogue. Historical fiction writers: you can\u2019t just have your characters use terms and refer to objects or events that mark them as \u2018of a time and place\u2019 \u2013 in this case, England 1662. I understand you're emerging from Puritanism and are therefore wearing colourful smocks instead of drab browns and greys. But I don't care. You have to convey a way of thinking that is, in this case, 350 years out of date. Anna Firth spoke like a modest, 17th C uneducated country girl - but she didn't think like one. Her thinking was not just unusual for a woman of her time and place, it was positively anachronistic. I don\u2019t care if your dialogue is accurate down to the accent. If it sounds like it\u2019s being play-acted by a local theatre troupe wearing homemade costumes, you\u2019ve lost me at \u2018good morrow.\u2019 And so here\u2019s where we come to the real comparison that sunk this book in my mind: Hilary Mantel. It\u2019s all Hilary\u2019s fault. Because every book of historical fiction I read is going to need to measure up to the standards she set in Wolf Hall and Bring Up The Bodies : the level of detail; the shaping of the character on the page from the inside out \u2013 never mind describing the clothes or using the words of a 17th C courtier, take me into his mind and thoughts so thoroughly that I inhabit that character with you. Lead me towards events with enough subtle build-up, enough interest in your characters, that I am both surprised by and invested in what happens to them when it happens. Even if it\u2019s a foregone conclusion. Even if everyone dies, and I know everyone is going to die. Actually: that\u2019s another point, and here I\u2019ll look to Edith Wharton who is a master of this (and for an even more apt comparison, Connie Willis did it well too in Doomsday Book ). You can\u2019t love your characters too much not to put them through the hell that they need to go through. It\u2019s the plague. People die gruesome deaths \u2013 children die. Mothers grieve. We need you to take us through that. Also, some people have to be truly heartless \u2013 not soap opera-ey villainous. To stand as a contrast to others \u2013 who need to be selfless, humble and heroic, but not unbelievably so; they need to be humans who struggle and do the best they can, but are not perfect. Geraldine couldn\u2019t do it \u2013 it shows on the page. Maybe she gets to it later, but she lost me at the critical early point \u2013 she actually killed important people off too early and too quickly (this is what I mean by leading me to it \u2013 and by the need for greater detail, greater depth. This kind of historical fiction needs to be longer, more epic. Connie Willis knows. Hilary Mantel knows. Hell, even George Eliot knows!). Great potential, unfulfilled. ...more Year of Wonders is a historical novel about a small English town 100 miles outside of London. It's the year 1666, and the town has been struck by plague, brought to them by a London tailor boarding with our narrator, Anna. The village is so remote that when the plague first appears the villagers don't recognize it for what it is. Once they learn the horrors of the disease, the villagers are asked to make a decision whether to flee in order to save themselves, or to stay put in order to keep the Year of Wonders is a historical novel about a small English town 100 miles outside of London. It's the year 1666, and the town has been struck by plague, brought to them by a London tailor boarding with our narrator, Anna. The village is so remote that when the plague first appears the villagers don't recognize it for what it is. Once they learn the horrors of the disease, the villagers are asked to make a decision whether to flee in order to save themselves, or to stay put in order to keep the disease from spreading any further. In the end, everyone in the village agrees to stay, aside from the only rich family in town - the only family with the means to run far from the reaches of the disease. As we follow the rest of the town through its year of isolation, we watch Anna, who begins as a lowly maid, transformed into a strong woman who the town begins to depend on for herbal remedies to just about every malady, in addition to becoming the only midwife in town (after an unfortunate incident that leaves the former midwife dead). When I first saw this book I knew it was going to be an easy read, merely because of its length (only 336 pages!). What I didn't know was how much I'd enjoy reading it. This book packed in a ton of information, along with many vivid scenes. Time and again I found myself being shocked by how much I learned from this book and how many different places/people were described in so few pages. Brooks is an amazing writer for both her economy of words and her ability to tell a story well. Also, she does a wonderful job of using old English without it seeming cumbersome. I have read other historical books and been completely put off by them because it's so difficult for me to figure out what the characters are saying to each other. I really enjoyed watching Anna grow as a person. One of my favorite parts of the book was when she went to the mine with Elinor (her partner in seeking herbal remedies to the plague) to save Merry from losing her family's mine. I was surprised Brooks made these women so independent in a novel about the 17th century, but in the interviews with her in the back of the book she talks about the necessity of women taking a leading role during that time and the fact that women were starting to gain more freedom during that century in England. There were some cringe-worthy moments in this book - from the witch hangings to a couple of scenes where women are physically abused - but I think it added to the authenticity of the book. We live in such a sterile world today, it was difficult for me to imagine what it would be like to live in such a dirty place while trying to fight a fatal disease. Overall, I really enjoyed this book and I would definitely recommend it (and already have forced it upon a number of friends). The one thing that really disappointed me was the epilogue, although that was pretty much because it went against what I had imagined and what I was expecting to happen. Normally I'd be glad about this because I hate when books are too predictable (and I probably would have said it was predictable if it had ended the way I had expected it to, so I don't know why I'm complaining), but after all the death and destruction in this novel, I guess I kind of wanted a couple of people to end up \"happily ever after.\" ...more Year of Wonders, Geraldine Brooks 2001 novel describes the plague years of 1666 and concludes with a very unusual and somewhat unbalanced ending. While reading I thought of Arthur Miller\u2019s The Crucible and of course Camus\u2019 The Plague (and I forgive her much about the ending for the mention of Oran which could NOT have been coincidence). This is simply, elegantly written and yet the force and brutality of the plot, told in such straightforward prose is also reminiscent of Sinners in the Hands of Year of Wonders, Geraldine Brooks 2001 novel describes the plague years of 1666 and concludes with a very unusual and somewhat unbalanced ending. While reading I thought of Arthur Miller\u2019s The Crucible and of course Camus\u2019 The Plague (and I forgive her much about the ending for the mention of Oran which could NOT have been coincidence). This is simply, elegantly written and yet the force and brutality of the plot, told in such straightforward prose is also reminiscent of Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God (another obvious and brilliant reference) \u2013 relentless and shocking. ...more Jedna od mojih prvih \"uredni\u010dkih\" kupovina... neposredno posle Harija Potera... Odli\u010dan roman o crnoj smrti, ili kugi u Engleskoj... Na\u017ealost, objavljena je u pogre\u0161noj ediciji i nije joj posve\u010dena adekvatna pa\u017enja... ali potra\u017eite je u bibliotekama... A jo\u0161 bolje, pro\u010ditajte je u originalu ako ste u mogu\u0107nosti... I have to say that I liked this book. But, I was greatly disappointed in it. I came to the book knowing of the sacrifice of that village and knowing, too, that when people sacrifice in such a way they are abundantly blessed by God. Unfortunately, the latter was completely missing in this book. It is easy to be an onlooker to suffering and assume that you\u2019ve seen the injustice and the loss and the pain and that there is nothing else to see. This is not only completely at odds with everything I be I have to say that I liked this book. But, I was greatly disappointed in it. I came to the book knowing of the sacrifice of that village and knowing, too, that when people sacrifice in such a way they are abundantly blessed by God. Unfortunately, the latter was completely missing in this book. It is easy to be an onlooker to suffering and assume that you\u2019ve seen the injustice and the loss and the pain and that there is nothing else to see. This is not only completely at odds with everything I believe to be true but also at odds with people I know who have suffered and the tales they tell of the comfort they have received. In the not too far distant history of my own people there is a sad tale of suffering and deaths of the daily \u201cwill this never end?\u201d type. However, unlike the survivors of Eyam, we have their own words of the experience and as one survivor said, \u201cThe price we paid to become acquainted with God was a privilege to pay.\u201d Surely there were miracles in that village as they sacrificed for the good of their people. Surely God walked with them. Surely there were wonders. Unfortunately there was nothing of this in the book. We are left only with what the author assumes would be left after such a year \u2013 a rector who no longer believes and a village that doesn\u2019t either. You can write a lot of things from our atheistic, modern standpoint, but in the matter of a village who sacrificed for their fellow man in the name of a God in whom they all believed, you can not write and get it right. You can not write of such things and leave God out. It leaves out half of the story and the most important half at that. My guess is that those villagers were never the same, but not in the hopeless way the author assumes. My guess is that for those villagers, they never had to look to the skies and wonder anymore if God was there and if He were listening, because my guess is that for them, all doubt had been swept away. They now knew He was there because He had walked with them in their year of wonders. That was the story I wanted to hear. ...more Year Of Wonders is the story of a very young, but determined and brave young widowed housemaid, Anna Frith, who (view spoiler) [ loses her two children (hide spoiler) ] to the horrors of the plague, but soldiers on to help the town minister and his wife fight the contagion while quarantined within their village. This touching and sometimes grotesquely explicit novel set in 1666 England is full of heartbreaking stories depicting unbelievable cruelty, superstitions, profiteering from the dead and the Year Of Wonders is the story of a very young, but determined and brave young widowed housemaid, Anna Frith, who (view spoiler) [ loses her two children (hide spoiler) ] to the horrors of the plague, but soldiers on to help the town minister and his wife fight the contagion while quarantined within their village. This touching and sometimes grotesquely explicit novel set in 1666 England is full of heartbreaking stories depicting unbelievable cruelty, superstitions, profiteering from the dead and the utter despair left in the aftermath of pestilence, but.....there is also kindness and compassion, and one specific moment of magic involving a young child with \"rose petals\" that will remain with me long after I've gone on to other books! The epilogue was surprising and certainly not what I expected except (view spoiler) [ for Anna siring the minister's child, but was nonetheless filled with hope and a future for the deserving young woman. (hide spoiler) ] Great Read! ...more I loved reading this because I've known the story since I was very small & been to the place The protagonist is a poor woman The most heroic character is a liberated woman The most courageous characters are all women The author celebrates the lore and spirituality of cunning women The author celebrates love, loyalty and friendship between women The author celebrates communalist values and mutual care The author takes witch-hunting to task as a masculist power-grab The author takes Puritanism to task T I loved reading this because I've known the story since I was very small & been to the place The protagonist is a poor woman The most heroic character is a liberated woman The most courageous characters are all women The author celebrates the lore and spirituality of cunning women The author celebrates love, loyalty and friendship between women The author celebrates communalist values and mutual care The author takes witch-hunting to task as a masculist power-grab The author takes Puritanism to task The author takes sanctimonious men to task The author takes abusive men to task, with nuance The author takes the parasitic rich & powerful class to task, mercilessly The author takes unjust law to task The author takes the denigration of sex workers to task The author shows us women taking on injustice and male indifference with above-and-beyond determination The author shows us women taking sexual initiative The author shows us fulfilling childless husbandless lives for women. The author throws open the hardness and darkness of the truth-based story with a beautiful, fanciful redemptive ending full of love and light, simultaneously taking racist white Christian history to task. ...more I had read a couple of Geraldine Brooks' essays for my Lit Theory class while I was in grad school, and while I was never one of those ultra-feminist types, I liked what she wrote about women as being strong, independent and intelligent creatures without overtly politicizing femininity as a whole. So I looked forward to reading \"Year of Wonders\", primarily because I loved the topic, I loved the time period, I loved the location and because I thought Brooks would be able to impart something diffe I had read a couple of Geraldine Brooks' essays for my Lit Theory class while I was in grad school, and while I was never one of those ultra-feminist types, I liked what she wrote about women as being strong, independent and intelligent creatures without overtly politicizing femininity as a whole. So I looked forward to reading \"Year of Wonders\", primarily because I loved the topic, I loved the time period, I loved the location and because I thought Brooks would be able to impart something different to the story. I was not impressed. As a whole, and academically speaking, the novel was flawless - it had strong characters, it was well-written grammatically, it had everything readers would look for in a novel. And I think that was what set me off. It followed all the rules about Writing The Novel: protagonists were good, antagonists were bad. Good people were redeemed at the end and the bad ones were punished. Scared, ignorant people did ghastly things because they didn't know any better: they reacted more than they thought. Women were strong, intelligent and outspoken, men were either enlightened or bought into the patriarchal hegemony, and in the end, the novel showed how the human spirit overcame everything bad that was thrown at it. Brooks did an excellent job with her research, so the locales were vividly described and she clung to historicity almost to a fault. But in making the \"perfect\" novel, she lost something. It was not authentic at all. There were anachronisms all over the place. I found it extremely cloying that the language switched back and forth between modern and early modern (17th century) English. I found some of the characters 2-dimensional (good were good, bad were bad, when in reality, a really decent character would have both qualities - these days, everyone knows about the \"flawed hero\"). I thought that some of her characterizations and descriptions were better suited for a novel set a century later, not in 1666. She had a tendency to rely too much on idiomatic expressions, which made the writing awkward at times and the reading quite tedious. I had a few eye-rolling moments and honestly, I couldn't wait to finish the book - not because I wanted to know what happened, but because I had lost patience with it. ...more ***SPOILER ALERT****** Year of Wonders is a novel inspired by the true story of the little town of Eyam in Derbyshire, known as the Plague Village, during the years 1665 - 1666. Although the cause of how the plague showed up in their village is still unknown, the villagers' decision to quarantine themselves in order to stop the spread of the deadly disease has sealed their place in history. Geraldine Brooks provides us with a fictional account of what life looked like from within the Plague Villag ***SPOILER ALERT****** Year of Wonders is a novel inspired by the true story of the little town of Eyam in Derbyshire, known as the Plague Village, during the years 1665 - 1666. Although the cause of how the plague showed up in their village is still unknown, the villagers' decision to quarantine themselves in order to stop the spread of the deadly disease has sealed their place in history. Geraldine Brooks provides us with a fictional account of what life looked like from within the Plague Village and gives us insight into the human nature that accompanies tragedy. Anna Frith is a widowed housemaid busy raising her two sons and working in the home of the town's priest and his wife, the Montpelliers. When Anna's lodger dies she suspects the plague to be the cause of his awful death and it's not long before her fears are confirmed. The spread is rampant and the fatalities of the villagers grow daily. No one is safe from the disease and every Sunday the church pews get emptier. Anna and Mrs. Montpellier team up to care for those afflicted while Mr. Montpellier works tirelessly bringing comfort to the dying. What really fascinated me in this novel was the human factor - how the villagers dealt with the constant death of their loved ones and neighbors, the trauma of self-exile and how their faith was tried. They sought a reason why this plague had come upon them, to understand...why was God punishing them or was he testing them? My favorite part of the novel was the friendship between Anna and Mrs. Montpellier, which has been strengthened by the tragedy is really beautiful to read and you can't help but love both of them and stand in awe of their strength. The ending is a bit of a rollercoaster with the revealing of secrets and hidden desires realized. Brooks ties the ends up nicely and while I was a little surprised by the ending, it was a pleasant surprise and I felt a great way to say goodbye to Anna, knowing she would have the happy future she so deserved. This poor book has been sitting on my TBR tower for ages and I could just kick myself for waiting this long to finally read it! Brooks' writing is brilliant, I can't wait to read more from her. Do yourself a favor and read this! You won't be sorry you did =) ...more This is a book about the bubonic plague so I am basically expected this by the end: Spoilers abound below along with a not insignificant amount of profanity: (view spoiler) [ So, expecting this book to be bleak, I shunted all of the emotions I anticipated feeling into the area of my heart where I keep my New York Mets fandom. You know, these guys: Sufficed to say their years of incompetence and disappointment have formed a nice level of scar tissue over that part of my metaphorical heart. So whatever This is a book about the bubonic plague so I am basically expected this by the end: Spoilers abound below along with a not insignificant amount of profanity: (view spoiler) [ So, expecting this book to be bleak, I shunted all of the emotions I anticipated feeling into the area of my heart where I keep my New York Mets fandom. You know, these guys: Sufficed to say their years of incompetence and disappointment have formed a nice level of scar tissue over that part of my metaphorical heart. So whatever this book was going to throw at me I knew it wouldn't sink its emotional claws into me. That being said, fuck this book. It was a never ending parade of despair, death, exploitation, inhumanity, and suffering with a little dash of hope thrown in every so often to make the subsequent despair, death, exploitation, inhumanity, and suffering that much worse. I swear, the town this takes place in (based on an actual town, Eyam ) must have killed the writer's grandmother considering the amount of suffering she heaps upon the inhabitants. If I wanted this level of depression I would just read a non-fiction book about the plague. Look, I understand that this book was about a horrible situation. The town voluntarily (and, might I had, quite nobly) secluded itself from the outside world once it was clear they were infected with the Bubonic plague (not the Black Death vintage, but one of the later outbreaks called The Great Plague of London ). And yes, under those conditions some pretty terrible stuff will (and did) happen. My issue with this book, though, was how the author presented the situation. Like I said, it was a never ending parade of death and despair. I was often introduced to families with the preface that they had already lost X amount of children plus one or both of the parents. I can feel bad for them on an abstract level, but if I didn't know them before hand it is difficult for me to rouse much emotional connection with them. They are just another set of future (or existing) corpses that I shouldn't bother getting to know or care about. There are a few characters we get to know quite well. Anna, the narrator. A peasant women in the employ of the local rector and widow to a local miner with two children. Michael Mompellion, the local rector and moral backbone of the community who proposes the the self quarantine. Elinor Mompellion, the wife of Michael who is a (positive) force to be reckoned with. Extremely empathetic, very hands on when it comes to problems, and generally a wonderful woman. We are also introduced to some other characters as well: Anna's father and step-mother, the Gowdies (a Aunt/Niece pair who have extensive herblore) and the Bradfords (local well to do family). So, some of the terrible things that the author heaps upon the reader: -The lynching of the Gowdies because people thought they were witches. There goes just about all of the herblore for the village, forcing Elinor and Anna to learn everything on their own. -Drug abuse (poppies in this case) -Child abuse -A crude form of crucifixion of Anna's father after he tries to kill someone in order to claim the victim's goods as payment for digging a grave (the previous person who did that died of a heart attack from overwork, another cheery note). -Anna's step mother, Aphra, going crazy from grief both from losing her own children (yes, lots and lots of children die) and having her husband die from the aforementioned crucifixion after Anna does not go to free him (she expected Aphra to do it but Aphra was at her home taking care of her children who all came down with the plague in shortly after the crucifixion). Aphra begins to masquerade as the ghost of one of the Gowdies, selling people fake supernatural remedies. -Child sacrifice -Families felled in such numbers that the village runs out of consecrated ground -Despair that drives some folks to self-flagellation -Attempted infanticide -Unnecessary mention of the slave trade. Not because the practice didn't occur, but because of all the other terrible things that have happened why include yet another terrible aspect of humanity during this time on top of everything else as part of a throw away line? -Elinor, whom we know at the beginning of the book is dead, comes down with the plague. So while you expect her to die she makes a recovery. Sounds good right? Nope, she gets killed when Aphra goes even crazier and stabs her to death in front of what is left of the village. -The Rector, Michael, after being a pillar of strength for the community, is broken by the death of Elinor and loses his faith (can't really blame him for that). But after hooking up with Anna (biblically speaking) he reveals that he never had sex with Elinor as a punishment for her sin of killing her out-of-wedlock child in the womb (using a heated iron brand no less). He specifically said that he strove to make her love him more and more so that his withholding of sex would hurt her that much more. Talk about a stone hearted, crazy religious zealot son of a bitch. Of course, because Anna become such good friends with Elinor and we see how great of a person Elinor is, this comes off as even more depressing and is a complete 180 from his previous personality to the point where it felt very jarring. So like I said, this book was fucking bleak. Everyone I was introduced to ended up dead, crazy, or deeply emotionally scarred (or were just terrible people to begin with). By the end we were left wwith this: Yes, the ending was sort of happy (if you ignore the mountain of corpses you had to climb over to get there), but Michael's crazy genes got passed on to another generation and the happiness lasted all of three pages before the book ended. There are ways to write bleak, depressing stories that don't involve constantly hitting the reader over the head with all the terrible things happening. After the third or fourth family is wiped out by the plague, the marginal emotional impact of each subsequent family death is extremely low. By the time I was halfway through the book every terrible thing the author dumped on poor Anna or the village just elicited a heavy sigh, not unlike the sighs I utter when the Mets once again find a way to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory. Upon final analysis this book failed for me because I did not resonate emotionally with any of the characters and the never ending parade of death and destruction just sort of numbed me to the entire experience. Family of seven wiped out by the plague? How passe. Drowning a baby? Par for the course. Crazy lady with a giant knife that slays the most beloved character in the village? Not terribly surprising. Religious man turns out to be a heartless self-righteous jackass? Certainly surprising, but completely undercuts any good feelings I had towards him this entire book. If you are interested in seeing a community collapse and die off from a plague and their own inhumanity, you might like this book. The writing and descriptions are quite sharp and well crafted, just expect a windmill full of corpses by the end. (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I enjoyed this a lot, but with some reservations. First of all, I knew the basic story very well from Jill Paton Walsh's wonderful children's novel \"A Parcel of Patterns\", so in a way, I didn't feel I was coming fresh to the book. Secondly, I felt the narrator was a bit of a Mary Sue, in that she seemed to me--a rabid historical fiction fan as a teenager--to be an idealised version of what we think we'd like to have been like if we'd lived in the past. Maybe that's unfair on the author--someone I enjoyed this a lot, but with some reservations. First of all, I knew the basic story very well from Jill Paton Walsh's wonderful children's novel \"A Parcel of Patterns\", so in a way, I didn't feel I was coming fresh to the book. Secondly, I felt the narrator was a bit of a Mary Sue, in that she seemed to me--a rabid historical fiction fan as a teenager--to be an idealised version of what we think we'd like to have been like if we'd lived in the past. Maybe that's unfair on the author--someone else who listed this on goodreads characterised it as a slight imposing of modern sensibilities on the character, and I think that's part of the problem. Still, almost impossible to avoid in historical fiction, I would hazard a guess. Another reservation was that I felt that the action got way too ramped up towards the end of the novel. I know that superstition and ignorance and fear led to people doing diabolical things during the plague era (not that much has changed!) but it got too over the top for me. SPOILERS The death of Elinor also made me giggle. I mean, it was brutal and visceral (and extremely unlikely, I'd have thought), but when she fell to die poetically on the luscious blooms she had just conveniently carried to church (never having done so before) and then dropped to the ground--well, really. And I didn't buy for one second the grief-deranged minister--who had never had sex with his wife, so presumably was a virgin, given his pre-spouse's-murder extreme piety--suddenly ...more Read about it and \"its blows fall and fall again upon raw sorrow.\" Its words will carry you through \"a patchwork of grays,\" for it is not just a sense of melancholy that drives the mood of this novel; rather, it is an abhorrent obscurity. The kind of murkiness that once upon a time, engulfed the real-life villagers of Eyam, Derbyshire in the year 1665. A closely knit community of miners and shepherds and weavers, they were. Read and you will learn about their puritan ways and the plague that clai Read about it and \"its blows fall and fall again upon raw sorrow.\" Its words will carry you through \"a patchwork of grays,\" for it is not just a sense of melancholy that drives the mood of this novel; rather, it is an abhorrent obscurity. The kind of murkiness that once upon a time, engulfed the real-life villagers of Eyam, Derbyshire in the year 1665. A closely knit community of miners and shepherds and weavers, they were. Read and you will learn about their puritan ways and the plague that claimed many lives in their village. About the radical minister who was their leader and the surprising turn his life takes at the end (\" His body is strong but I fear that the strength of his will far exceeds it. It can drive him to do what any normal man cannot do, for better and for worse \"). About Anna Frith, the heroine and servant of the rector and his wife--the wife who becomes Anna's best friend. Read and you will love Anna as a narrator. You will have sympathy for her losses, her abandonment, her aloneness. You will be with her there, deep in the depths of her despair. Do not read if you cannot stomach imagistic illness and death: I heard the snap: a dry sound like a chicken's wishbone breaking. The little skull popped free of the spine and fell to the grass, where it rolled back and forth, the empty eye-holes staring. Beware, if the horrors of self-torture that a dying man submits to, with the hopes that he will be saved from the ravishing disease, disturb you: A scourge of plaited leather, into the ends of which had been driven short nails...and strikes himself. One of the spikes was bent crooked, like a fishhook, so that where it connected with the skin it caught and tore away a tiny piece of flesh.\" Read and you will find fact intermingled with fiction; good battling evil; choice as a thematic undertone. You will be disgusted and delighted. Angry and sad. In the end though, there is some hope because after all, there is always hope. ...more I have to admit that I have never been a huge fan of historical fiction so this is not the kind of book that I would normally read. Having read several positive reviews and been impressed by the author's credentials, however, I started reading with an open mind. The writing style was very welcoming and drew you in from the beginning and I warmed to the strength of Anna, the protagonist. I felt however that the story became so flawed and was so inconsistently paced that by the final page I had lo I have to admit that I have never been a huge fan of historical fiction so this is not the kind of book that I would normally read. Having read several positive reviews and been impressed by the author's credentials, however, I started reading with an open mind. The writing style was very welcoming and drew you in from the beginning and I warmed to the strength of Anna, the protagonist. I felt however that the story became so flawed and was so inconsistently paced that by the final page I had lost all respect for the novel as a whole. If you have not read the book [and still intend to do so] please stop reading for I will probably ruin it for you but the amount crammed into the final 20 pages was so utterly ludicrous that the story completely fell down and you felt like you were reading a piece of creative writing written by a GCSE student who is running out of time in an exam. Within these final pages the [previously rather promising] heroine has a highly charged affair with the husband of her dead best friend, discovers he's something of a psychopath, delivers a baby, rescues the baby from being murdered, runs away from the village she has never left in her life [taking the baby with her], is chased by the babies family, boards a ship and [somehow!] ends up part of an esteemed doctors hareem of wives acting as his assistant and bringing up the rescued child and a bastard child of her own fathered by the psychotic clergyman [widower of her best friend]. Phew! All plausibility is completely lost. I normally have some love for novels which are an easy read and have this degree of originality this, however, is utter rubbish. ...more 4.5\u2605 A realistic, grim account of England\u2019s Great Plague of 1665-1666 as told by Anna, a very young village widow. Brooks\u2019s writing is what makes this bearable and compelling to read. The Black Death had been around for hundreds of years--during the Roman Empire and the late Middle Ages\u2014but this is about the outbreak in Restoration England. Charles II and the court removed themselves to the countryside, and this village decided to quarantine itself. The story opens in \u201cLeaf-Fall, 1666\u201d, after the 4.5\u2605 A realistic, grim account of England\u2019s Great Plague of 1665-1666 as told by Anna, a very young village widow. Brooks\u2019s writing is what makes this bearable and compelling to read. The Black Death had been around for hundreds of years--during the Roman Empire and the late Middle Ages\u2014but this is about the outbreak in Restoration England. Charles II and the court removed themselves to the countryside, and this village decided to quarantine itself. The story opens in \u201cLeaf-Fall, 1666\u201d, after the worst of the Plague in their village, with Anna attending to the grief-stricken Reverend Mompellion. They are among the survivors who are struggling to contemplate a future after so many tragedies. It\u2019s been a village of farmers and lead miners, and few are left to tend to anything. But Anna is young, and in spite of everything (and believe me, there is a LOT of everything), she does notice new life. A walnut shell has cracked and sprouted right in the middle of the dirt road and is probably going to block the way--yet nobody\u2019s pulled it out. \u201cFootprints testify that we are all walking round it. I wonder if it is indifference, or whether , like me, others are so brimful of endings that they cannot bear to wrench even a scrawny sapling from its tenuous grip on life.\u201d Then we\u2019re plunged backward into \u201cSpring, 1665\u201d, with Anna (wife and mother), beginning to deal with the Black Death, and the villagers deciding to close the gates following Reverend Mompellion\u2019s advice. They worked out a system of exchanging goods so that they weren\u2019t entirely without support, but nobody could visit family or friends. Miserable time, gruesome descriptions, dreadful events, horrifying circumstances with no relief. Witches are accused and dealt with, corpses pile up and stink, filth is everywhere. It\u2019s grisly, and men were often brutal to women and children even during the good times. There\u2019s a lot of praying \u2013 church is held outdoors in the warm weather, when the sickness spreads more\u2014but the church loses a lot of believers, and not all to Death. Anna learns how to brew potions and salves which help nourish sufferers and relieve some pain. For herself, she resorts briefly to a bit of poppy resin \u201cstirring in a half cup of heather-scented honey to mask the bitterness\u201d to enjoy a dream-filled night and \u201cpoppy-induced serenity\u201d in the morning. It\u2019s tempting to turn your back on the story to choose something cheerier, but it IS compelling. Brooks has such a way with words and is so good at putting us there (which is hard when it\u2019s so awful). Here\u2019s a nice bit (and there are many). \u201cWe all live aslant here, on this steep flank of the great White Peak. We are always tilting forwards to toil uphill, or bracing backwards on our heels to slow a swift descent. Sometimes, I wonder what it would be like to live in a place where the land did not angle so, and people could walk upright with their eyes on a straight horizon. Even the main street of our town has a camber to it, so that the people on the uphill side stand higher than those on the downhill.\u201d \u201cOur village is a thin thread of dwellings, unspooling east and west of the church. The main road frays here and there into a few narrower paths that lead to the mill, to Bradford Hall, the larger farms, and the lonelier crofts.\u201d And, we have the advantage of knowing that eventually . . . eventually, England recovered. I read and enjoyed The Secret Chord but wished then for a glossary, and the same applies here. Some of the words I\u2019ve read in other places, but some phrases and customs are new to me and not always obvious. You can find some help online, but I\u2019d appreciate it in the books themselves. ...more Ah me, I'm afraid I had to reach for the smelling salts many times during Brooks' depiction of the plague's rampage through a small village in central England in the year 1666. The village and it's heroic decision to isolate itself to prevent the spread of the Black Death to other parts of the country is a reality. The characters spring to full-blown life from the author's imagination: preachers, servant girls, noble people who take on the roles of \"heavies\", Puritans, Anglicans, Ancients and c Ah me, I'm afraid I had to reach for the smelling salts many times during Brooks' depiction of the plague's rampage through a small village in central England in the year 1666. The village and it's heroic decision to isolate itself to prevent the spread of the Black Death to other parts of the country is a reality. The characters spring to full-blown life from the author's imagination: preachers, servant girls, noble people who take on the roles of \"heavies\", Puritans, Anglicans, Ancients and children, and most vividly drawn, witches performing white and black magic. Like THE PEOPLE OF THE BOOK, this novel is painstaking in its detailed research. The Plague comes to the village on a bolt of material a tailor brought from London. The tailor is a lodger with a young widow, the narrator and so, naturally, a survivor of the Year of Wonder. Wonder is a many layered choice for the title: first, it describes the miracle of living through such horrors but I suggest it describes the philosophical question, the \"why\" about suffering that has asked since myth making began. It did not take great powers of deduction to guess where the story was going since Anna opens her narrative after the worst has happened, and she is attending to the Preacher, strong, silent and virtuous. However, let me state that this is no Harlequin Romance and surprises and yes, wonders, occur before the final page. But let me get back to my queasy stomach and attacks of the vapors. Brooks did her homework too well: we read about the boils and the blood and the piteous deaths of children and old folk. It seems the middle aged often had the stamina to live through or past the epidemic. As if this were not enough, several other varieties of deaths come to life with sickening verisimiltude. Just warning, not spoiling, that you keep one of those airplane bags nearby. Childbirths are not omitted nor unique and hideous punishments meted out to those who extorted their fellow man and those innocent women herbalists who were branded as Satinist. This is not a book for the faint of heart but it is informative and its fictions rest on actual happenings during that Fateful Year. ...more 1666. A young housemaid walks through the empty streets of a village decimated by plague. She attends to the rector, a formerly charismatic leader now sequestered in his empty house, listless and faithless. The previous year a bolt of fabric from London brought bubonic plague to this remote northern village, and as one by one the villagers began to die, the rector convinced them that instead of fleeing the village and bringing plague to others (who probably would drive them away anyway), they sh 1666. A young housemaid walks through the empty streets of a village decimated by plague. She attends to the rector, a formerly charismatic leader now sequestered in his empty house, listless and faithless. The previous year a bolt of fabric from London brought bubonic plague to this remote northern village, and as one by one the villagers began to die, the rector convinced them that instead of fleeing the village and bringing plague to others (who probably would drive them away anyway), they should quarantine themselves and ride it out. As nearly two-thirds of the inhabitants sicken and die, our 18 year old heroine joins forces with the rector and his wife to minister to the living, dying, and dead, and try to prevent the village from descending into superstition and barbarity. At times they succeed more than others, but watching those who rise to extraordinary challenges and those who don\u2019t is compelling entertainment. At a dinner recently a friend handed this over to me and said, \u201cYou should read it \u2014 it\u2019s wonderfully written!\u201d She was right \u2014 the prose is beautiful, the story gripping, and the portrayal of human nature fascinating. Then (fun coincidence) I was two chapters into the book when another friend brought me to a book reading by Tony Horwitz, this very funny travel writer, who turned out to be Geraldine Brooks\u2019s husband! Who knew?! Well, obviously he did, as did the book store lady who introduced him. So I grabbed a copy of Year of Wonders and asked him to sign it along with one of his own books, which he did without making me feel too ridiculous. He also told me that this was his favorite of his wife\u2019s books. It\u2019s a fast read, and guaranteed to make you feel really good about living in the 21st century. My only problem is with the ending. All through the book a couple of characters display obviously modern sensibilities, but the end really does seem to go off the rails with bizarre plot twists more suitable to a supermarket paperback than good historical fiction. Added to that is the toll on faith that the plague takes \u2014 really, nobody\u2019s faith is strengthened after going through this sort of ordeal?? Granted, who knows if mine would be, especially given the absence of plumbing, medicine, or decent food, as well as the cast of illiterate drunkards I\u2019d have to endure, but shouldn\u2019t we at least hope for characters who come through the refiner\u2019s fire wiser and stronger? Other than that, very interesting and beautifully written. ...more I honestly have two totally different ranks for this book: one of the first 200 pages and one of the last fifty. The last fifty pages totally ruined everything I loved about the first 200. If I weren't reading on my computer, I'd throw it across the room. Year of Wonders is inspired by a true story of a village called Eyam in England, which experienced an outbreak of the plague in 1666. Our story focuses on Anna, a housemaid for the village priest, and her experiences with loss, family, and commu I honestly have two totally different ranks for this book: one of the first 200 pages and one of the last fifty. The last fifty pages totally ruined everything I loved about the first 200. If I weren't reading on my computer, I'd throw it across the room. Year of Wonders is inspired by a true story of a village called Eyam in England, which experienced an outbreak of the plague in 1666. Our story focuses on Anna, a housemaid for the village priest, and her experiences with loss, family, and community as the village is cut off from all other society in an effort to contain the plague. Writing So this is kind of a modern classic, right? It's a New York Times and Washington Post notable book, it's a best seller, and you'll find it on all kinds of \"Best of\" and \"Required Reading\" lists. I felt obligated to read it and have had it on my list for years. After reading it, I'm honestly lost as to where to start in reviewing the writing. I feel like it was almost two separate books. The first book - made up of the first 250 or so pages - was amazing. I thought the writing was beautiful, I love the characters, and I was very impressed with the overall quality as well as the author's storytelling capabilities. And then the last fifty pages happened and it wasn't even in the same world as the first section. Things just go absolutely nuts in the last fifty pages. I don't want to spoil, but I could not, even by the largest stretch, suspend my disbelief that far. It was totally and completely unbelievable, not just based on history and fact (the book is not a fantasy) but also based on everything the author had established about the characters to that point. You can't write two hundred and fifty pages of character development and then turn around and have the characters act against everything you've already established. No, just no. Entertainment Value Despite my anger at the fact that the last few pages of the book take place in some alternate universe with characters who do not in any way resemble the characters we've established throughout the rest of the novel, I actually was quite entertained by the whole thing. I mean, I'll always be entertained by crazy stuff happening, but in this case being entertained was not the best thing. The crazy stuff, while crazily entertaining, had absolutely no place in the book. Overall The ending ruined it. I'm not ready to say I don't recommend it, because I feel like the first part of the book is really good. And it's not a horrible waste of time in the way a more believable but cliched and un-memorable story would be. This one is certainly memorable and inspired discussion between me and the friends who have read it - so in that way it was a success. Just don't model your upcoming plague novel on the last fifty pages, ok? ...more Despite the vast majority of this story being a seemingly unending tide of death and devastation from the Plague, I absolutely loved this novel. Granted I'm kind of a sucker for a historical novel set in a small seventeenth century British village with medical themes and an empowered female protagonist, but this story did an excellent job of combining period details, developing compelling characters, and showing a community in an impossible situation. I liked the end, though I'll admit it was aw Despite the vast majority of this story being a seemingly unending tide of death and devastation from the Plague, I absolutely loved this novel. Granted I'm kind of a sucker for a historical novel set in a small seventeenth century British village with medical themes and an empowered female protagonist, but this story did an excellent job of combining period details, developing compelling characters, and showing a community in an impossible situation. I liked the end, though I'll admit it was awfully tidy and speedy in its completion. This was the best book I've read in months, and a beautiful story of how death and misery cannot completely crush the possibility of life's joy and growth. ...more This was a really good novel based on the true story of a remote English village which chose to isolate itself when visited by the Bubonic plague. The main character Anna was inspiring given all that she herself went through as well as the cast of flawed and despairing villagers. Anna exhibits bravery, courage and determination. During this 'Year of wonders' she learns to midwife, learns to use herbs, even attempts lead mining, simply because there is no-one else to do it. \u2018I wonder if you know ho This was a really good novel based on the true story of a remote English village which chose to isolate itself when visited by the Bubonic plague. The main character Anna was inspiring given all that she herself went through as well as the cast of flawed and despairing villagers. Anna exhibits bravery, courage and determination. During this 'Year of wonders' she learns to midwife, learns to use herbs, even attempts lead mining, simply because there is no-one else to do it. \u2018I wonder if you know how you have changed. It is the one good, perhaps, to come out of this terrible year. Oh, the spark was clear in you when first you came to me \u2013but you covered your light as if you were afraid of what would happen if anybody saw it. You were like a flame blown by the wind until it is almost extinguished. All I had to do was put the glass round you. And now, how you shine!\u2019 -this from her friend and mentor... The book ends on a high note once the plague and crisis had passed. This book is Recommended. ...more This book is based on the true story of a Derbyshire village where the plague arrived, probably in cloth sent from London, and where the villagers made the brave decision to enforce a voluntary quarantine on themselves so as not to spread the disease to the other villages and towns around. However, the novel doesn't stick to the facts in several important areas, more's the pity. When the story opens in autumn of 1666, Anna, a young woman, is working as a servant for the rector, who is deeply depr This book is based on the true story of a Derbyshire village where the plague arrived, probably in cloth sent from London, and where the villagers made the brave decision to enforce a voluntary quarantine on themselves so as not to spread the disease to the other villages and towns around. However, the novel doesn't stick to the facts in several important areas, more's the pity. When the story opens in autumn of 1666, Anna, a young woman, is working as a servant for the rector, who is deeply depressed following the death of his wife and the huge loss of life (half the population) that has resulted from their voluntary isolation. Anna herself suffers from her losses: she had been widowed in a mining accident before the plague arrived and her two young children died of the disease. The lady of the manor's daughter turns up demanding the parson come to see her mother - who she ends up confessing is in labour with an illegitimate child and likely to die - and is sent away in no uncertain terms by the rector, who has lost his faith. The book then goes back to the time before the plague began, when Anna took in a lodger, a young tailor who sent for cloth to London, unwittingly importing the plague-carrying fleas that causes the whole disaster (although the 17th century characters remain unaware of how plague is transmitted). It then follows through the entire year until it once again reaches the period where the book opened. There are a few issues as the story unfolds because very few of those who die are developed as characters beforehand, and therefore the reader feels no real connection to them. The continuing deaths become quite repetitive. The story is told in Anna's first person viewpoint and at times there's a somewhat anachronistic flavour in her views of the world, despite the attempt to have her speak in a slightly old fashioned way, with a liberal sprinkling of dialect terms which are never explained and where the meaning is often not ascertainable from the context. However, those aren't the real problems with the book, which I found a total disappointment. Part of the trouble is that I've read a lot of history books, so certain things jumped out as wrong and derailed my belief in the story. However the entire last sequence is genuinely a car crash, as I'll come on to, but it was prefigured for me early on. Firstly, the village originally relied for medical help on an old woman and her niece who grew a physic garden and prepared herbal remedies, and also provided midwifery services. The author's idea of these women owes more to Margaret Murray's long-discredited notion that witchcraft was a survival of ancient goddess-worship, rather than the documented evidence about 'cunning folk' as they were known (both men and women). For example, every time her characters pronounce a charm, it has a formula about being pleasing to our grandmothers. The real cunning folk recited charms that were based on Christian prayers. Secondly, although it might seem 'obvious' to 21st century readers that the plague would be blamed on witches, from what I've read about how it was viewed from the middle ages onward, this wasn't the case: it was seen instead as God's punishment on a sinful humanity, probably because of the occasions in the Bible where He sent plagues, e.g. to the Egyptians. The kinds of illnesses and deaths attributed to witches were smaller scale and without a discernible cause - such as a sudden death (which we would recognise as a stroke, for example) or death after a lingering illness. Plague was recognised as such - as it is in this story - by its 'tokens': the buboes or swellings in the lymph nodes (neck/armpit/groin) and the 'ring-a-roses' under the skin. The sequence where (view spoiler) [the village turns on its cunning folk and murders them struck me as pure melodrama, (hide spoiler) ] and the author's inclusion of material from a Scottish witchcraft \"confession\" (as she confirms in her afterword) shows that she hasn't understood the material she researched. It would have been much more salutary to have used the documentation about English witchcraft cases, for example the Pendle witches, as the Scottish and English views on the subject were very different. For most readers I realise this is an academic point, but I almost stopped reading at that point, and the switch from actual drama to melodrama didn't bode well for the rest of the story. Another odd scene is the one where Anna's son and his friend play with the corpses of black rats. It's true that when infected rats died, the plague-infested fleas migrated to people, but that happened in London and other places where rats brought the disease from ships at the docks etc. Here it arrives in flea-infested cloth from London so there wouldn't be any infected rats to begin with and the fleas didn't need to pop back onto rats in between, considering they gave the disease to the tailor soon enough and his customers ignored the advice Anna gave them to burn the clothing he'd made. It's as if the author read the material about the dying rats - she mentions it in her Afterword - but without understanding the sequence, so didn't realise it wasn't needed here. The main part of the story deals with the various deaths, Anna's role in nursing the sick and her growing friendship with the rector's wife, Elinor. The two women use a book translated from Arabic into Latin - Elinor reads it although she has meanwhile taught Anna to read and write English - to teach themselves the plant lore (view spoiler) [lost when the two wise women were murdered (hide spoiler) ] . Eventually they manage and Anna also becomes a credible midwife. There's a slightly anachronistic element in their recognition that they need to build up the strength of the younger people who have less immunity to the plague, but that isn't too bothersome. That element of the story is quite interesting even though it comes across as the writer too-obviously showing her research, as does the chapter where the two women go down a lead mine to get an orphaned girl sufficient lead to allow her to hang onto the claim. However, it is when things really part company from documented history that the car crash I mentioned looms. (view spoiler) [In short order, there's the improvised crucifixion of Anna's abusive father, followed by the grand guignol madness of her stepmother - dancing crazily in her house around the strung up body of her remaining child, then dragging said corpse to the outdoor 'church' the villagers have been using and attacking the rector, then cutting Elinor's throat and stabbing herself. (hide spoiler) ] And in the final section, there's a total rewrite of the rector's character which completely undermines the credibility of the story. (view spoiler) [I suddenly found I was reading a romance novel: after a wild ride on the moors reminiscent of Wuthering Heights, Anna returns to fall into bed with him, convinced he's the love of her life. It's literally a rude awakening when she discovers he was just getting some sex after deliberately depriving Elinor of the same for the whole of their married life while doing his best to make Elinor as lovelorn and lust-tormented as possible, all to punish her for having performed a do-it-yourself termination which had made her infertile - so hadn't she been punished enough? Granted that he's lost his faith, but it seems he didn't love Elinor anyway, so why did her death send him over the edge? No, after the strong, spiritual, caring side he's shown all throughout the novel, which allowed him to convince the villagers to go along with the quarantine despite their appalling suffering, this was a step too far. The writer would have needed the ability of a George Elliot to make that one believable. (hide spoiler) ] After that ridiculous interlude, the rest is a whistle stop tour where everything bar the kitchen sink is chucked in - (view spoiler) [ the attempted infanticide by the grown up daughter, of the lady of the manor's illegitimate baby, then Anna's escape with the rejected child helped by the rector who is suddenly nice again, then her being pursued by some member of the l-o-t-m's family who wants to kill both her and the baby, then life threatening storms at sea, escape to a foreign land and finally a life of fulfillment in a harem as one of the wives of an Arab doctor, where a few years later Anna is a doctor to women and is bringing up both the illegitimate baby of the l-o-t-m and her own child by the rector (hide spoiler) ] all of which could have constituted a novel in itself but was zoomed past in a handful of pages. Any remaining credibility went out of the window, and a book that had hovered around the 3-star mark despite the earlier clangers about witchcraft and plague vectors dropped to 1-star. A shame, because the subject matter was promising. The real-life story of the rector and his wife - the historical people on whom the characters were based had children whom they sent away before the quarantine, but the wife stayed to help and died of the plague - would have made a touching story, and we would surely have seen a man tested to the ends of his faith but somehow, it seems, still managing to cling onto it. That would have made a more enriching story than something that veered through umpteen genres including body ripper and leaves an unsatisfying impression. ...more If you are writing a book and want a solid example of what NOT to do, then \u201cYear of Wonders\u201d by Geraldine Brooks is an ideal case study. Yes, that may be harsh but Year of Wonder displays the prime example of an interesting plot with poor execution. To begin, the text style is somewhat repellant as it is bland and one dimensional, lacking depth and energy. Also absent is a strong sense of imagery, with a monotone and drab voice, causing the reader to want to scan the pages (trust me, you won\u2019t m If you are writing a book and want a solid example of what NOT to do, then \u201cYear of Wonders\u201d by Geraldine Brooks is an ideal case study. Yes, that may be harsh but Year of Wonder displays the prime example of an interesting plot with poor execution. To begin, the text style is somewhat repellant as it is bland and one dimensional, lacking depth and energy. Also absent is a strong sense of imagery, with a monotone and drab voice, causing the reader to want to scan the pages (trust me, you won\u2019t miss much). The language is elementary with sections that read as follows, \u201cI picked up my skirts to avoid the mud. I walked to the stables. The horses looked happy to see me\u201d; versus something along the lines of: \u201cPicking up my delicate skirts hoping to prevent damage, I walked to the stables where the horses pawed the ground in a warm greeting\u201d\u2026 you get the idea. The character development in Year of Wonders is very poor. The reader never truly gets a grasp of Anna\u2019s psyche and mental emotions. Simply put, she isn\u2019t accessible while she furthermore fails to maintain any chemistry with the extensive number of characters within the novel. On several occasions, Anna mentions her deceased husband Sam, but there is no woven emotional connection to him. The story progression is also flat and doesn\u2019t involve much more than: Person A dies from plague then Person B, then we try to prevent Person C from passing but he dies along with Person D\u2026SNOOZE. You think that the portions describing witches and spells are more engaging? WRONG. They are nothing short of cheesy and unbelievable, better suited for a YA novel. Need more convincing on the negative aspects of this book? The narrative quite bluntly has no spirit. Even when Anna\u2019s children die from the plague, the reader doesn\u2019t feel much remorse because Anna herself barely details any. The time period also seems to be \u201coff\u201d. Although taking place in 1666, Year of Wonders doesn\u2019t encompass Stuart England and fall shorts on bringing the experience to life. In fact, the text is a bit more modern than the time period chronicled. Okay, this review is nothing more than a list of complaints but I truly found no redeeming factor in Year of Wonders. There are too many books and too little time to focus on a poor story. ...more Started this as an audiobook, but the narrator was terrible. She sounded like she was completely bored and was about to fall asleep. But I was too interested in the storyline, so I checked the hard copy out at the library. I think if I had continued the audio version I would have rated about a 2. The story is loosely based upon the actual present plague village in Derbyshire, the source of contagion still debated. 1666 was a tough year for the country: the great plague, a Dutch invasion, the gre Started this as an audiobook, but the narrator was terrible. She sounded like she was completely bored and was about to fall asleep. But I was too interested in the storyline, so I checked the hard copy out at the library. I think if I had continued the audio version I would have rated about a 2. The story is loosely based upon the actual present plague village in Derbyshire, the source of contagion still debated. 1666 was a tough year for the country: the great plague, a Dutch invasion, the great fire. Somehow the plague spread to this little hamlet and killed two-thirds of the population during the year of disease. Our narrator is the creation of the author. She experiences the sickness, terror, filth, and despondency as well as finds strength, sisterhood, fortitude, and courage. Death is balanced with new life; spells and incantations with true physic. Some true accounts researched by the author are interspersed with possible events imagined. ...more A village deals with the plague and a girl finds out who she is and what she believes. Excellent plot, character development and exposition.", "Title": "Year of Wonders"},
