{"Comments": "Adventures in Time Mowing After my laptop fused to my lawn mower due to a freak lightning strike, I discovered that I could use it to travel through time. \u201cWow, where\u2019d you come from?\u201d \u201cI\u2019m from 2011. Got a time mower and decided to come to the future. I\u2019ll spare you the full origin story.<---F> My name\u2019s Kemper</---F>.\u201d \u201cI\u2019m <---C>Wade</---C> Watts. Welcome to 2044.\u201d \u201cThanks. I gotta say, things are looking kind of grim around here. Are those mobile homes stacked up like hillbilly skyscrapers?\u201d \u201cYeah, I live in one of them. W Adventures in Time Mowing After my laptop fused to my lawn mower due to a freak lightning strike, I discovered that I could use it to travel through time. \u201cWow, where\u2019d you come from?\u201d \u201cI\u2019m from 2011. Got a time mower and decided to come to the future. I\u2019ll spare you the full origin story. My name\u2019s Kemper.\u201d \u201cI\u2019m Wade Watts. Welcome to 2044.\u201d \u201cThanks. I gotta say, things are looking kind of grim around here. Are those mobile homes stacked up like hillbilly skyscrapers?\u201d \u201cYeah, I live in one of them. We\u2019ve had a lot of problems once the cheap fossil fuels started running out. Life kinda sucks ass these days. Fortunately, we\u2019ve got the OASIS.\u201d \u201cWhat\u2019s that?\u201d \u201cIt\u2019s this virtual reality that\u2019s kind of a combination of the Internet and the biggest MMORPG ever made. Here put this on, and I\u2019ll show you.\u201d \u201cHey,<---M> this is pretty sweet</---M>, Wade. But what\u2019s with all this old stuff here in your virtual room. It looks like the \u201880s vomited in here.\u201d \u201cOh, it\u2019s part of my research for the contest. See the guy who invented the OASIS was this old nerd named James Halliday. He left an Easter egg hidden somewhere in the OASIS and whoever finds it wins the prize. He was totally obsessed with the \u201880s and nerdly stuff like computers, sci-fi, cartoons, movies, comics and video games. He left three keys to three gates hidden in here, and the clues have to be stuff that he loved. So a lot of people like me have to know all about the '80s to hunt for the egg.\" \u201cHow long has this been going on?\u201d \u201cFor years now. Nobody has found the first key yet.\u201d \u201cAnd you what? Watch movies from the \u201880s? Listen to the music? Read his favorite books? Play old video games?\u201d \u201cIt\u2018s even bigger than that. Because of the contest, the entire world is obsessed with the \u201880s. The clothes and hairstyles are considered cool again.\u201d \u201cReally? Well, I gotta get the hell out of here then. Thanks for showing me this, Wade. How do I log out?\u201d \u201cYou\u2019re leaving already? Don\u2019t you want to\u2026Oh, my god! You said you were from 2011? And you\u2019re in your 40s, right?\u201d \u201cWell, just barely\u2026\u201d \u201cSo you actually lived through the \u201880s?\u201d \u201cAfraid so. High school class of 1988.\u201d \u201cThat\u2019s awesome! You gotta tell me all about it, Kemper.\u201d \u201cKid, why would you want to hear about that? You\u2019re sitting here with enough computer power to download everything from the collected works of Shakespeare to the entire run of The Wire and you want to hear about the \u201980s? Just for a contest?\u201d \u201cI love the \u201980s. It was the coolest time ever!\u201d \u201cUh, not really. In fact, I think the \u201990s beat the shit out of them. That not worrying about the Cold War thing was a relief and the music was a lot better. Plus we got to wear flannel. That was fun.\u201d \u201cBut\u2026 you got to play the old video games in the actual arcades, and you saw the first generation of home computers come out. Plus, music videos and John Hughes movies and Rubik\u2019s Cubes and Michael Jackson\u2019s Thriller album and\u2026.\u201d \u201cYeah, Wade. I lived through it all. I remember when MTV played music videos and when Eddie Murphy was funny. But you\u2019re making me sad, kid.\u201d \u201cWhy?\u201d \u201cLemme tell you a story, Wade. About ten years after I got out of high school, an old buddy I had stayed in touch with had a birthday bash and invited a bunch of us that used to run around together. So we\u2019re at his house drinking and playing cards just like the old days and catching up and playing \u2018Remember when?\u201d. It was a lot of fun, but we\u2019d been listening to hair metal and classic rock all night, and at one point, I was flipping through the CD\u2019s.\u201d \u201cActual CD\u2019s! Not downloads?\u201d \u201cHell, I\u2019m so old even my post-high school stories are dated now. Yes, Wade, real CD\u2019s. Anyhow, I found a new Foo Fighters album, and I put it in. And this one guy made a face and asked me why I had taken the Guns-n-Roses out. And I said something like the nostalgia had been fun but I needed something from that decade. Being completely serious he said that he didn\u2019t know how I could listen to that stuff, and that he still listened to the same exact music we did in high school. He had just replaced his old cassettes with CD\u2019s. The guy had completely managed to miss grunge and was perfectly happy with the same play list in 1998 that he\u2019d been listening to in 1988. And that was one of the saddest things I ever heard, Wade.\u201d \u201cBut maybe he just really liked that stuff.\u201d \u201cI liked it too, once upon a time. And I can still belt out a pretty good version of Relax when Frankie Goes to Hollywood comes on the radio, but it was a certain time and place. Now it\u2019s done. I find it depressing that someone of Gen X would want to be stuck there and never moved on to anything new. But it got worse after that, Wade. Because we got older and then the media started catering to us by going for nostalgia trips on everything from trying to remake the Knight Rider TV show to shitty movies like The Transformers and G.I. Joe to the goddamn Smurfs . I\u2019m tired of it in 2011, Wade. I don\u2019t want a new Indiana Jones movie, I want the NEXT Indiana Jones. But no one is working on that because all of us got obsessed with regurgitating our childhoods over and over.\u201d \u201cThat is kind of sad, Kemper.\u201d \u201cWhat\u2019s even sadder is seeing it happen to a generation that didn\u2019t even live through it. When I was a teenager, I got sick to death of baby boomer nostalgia and there\u2019d be these kids my age who tried to be like damn dirty hippies by wearing tie-dye shirts and going to listen to Grateful Dead tribute bands. They were nostalgic for an era that wasn\u2019t even theirs, and I always thought it was a waste. Don\u2019t be like that, Wade. You seem like a nice kid. Don\u2019t sit here watching Family Ties reruns and playing Space Invaders and making jokes about Ewoks. That was then. This is now. It\u2019s your time and you should be out there trying to find the stuff that will become part of your own memories of growing up, not rehashing ours.\u201d \u201cGee, Kemper. That\u2019s a really good point. You\u2019ve opened my eyes. Thanks a lot.\u201d \u201cYou\u2019re welcome, Wade. By the way, what the hell was this prize that was so good that it got the entire world doing the safety dance again?\u201d \u201cOh, the winner gets the controlling interest in Halliday\u2019s company and his personal fortune which is about $240 billion dollars.\u201d \u201cDid you say $240 billion? Dollars?\u201d \u201cYes, so how about we log off. Maybe I\u2019ll take a walk and see if I can find this girl I like. I\u2019ve been\u2026\u201d \u201cScrew that. Fire this rig up, Wade. Put on some Def Leppard and find me a pair of acid washed jeans and some high top Reeboks. Let\u2019s start looking for clues. For $240 billion I\u2019ll live through the \u201880s again.\u201d ************************************************** I didn\u2019t actually hate this book. It did a lot of very clever stuff regarding an entire virtual universe. And for a member of Gen X, it was a fast and fun romp down memory lane. It was kind of like Snow Crash meets the Scott Pilgrim Vs. The World movie. But I\u2019ve got a personal pet peeve against people trying to live in the past and since this book is nostalgia porn*, the basic premise did rub me the wrong way. The idea that the kids of the 2040s are just watching episodes of \u201880s TV shows and playing Donkey Kong really kind of depressed me. * I stole that phrase from Flannery\u2019s review. Sorry, Flannery! It was just too good. I might have been able to get past it a little easier if at least one of the kids said something like, \u201cJesus, I hate this \u201880s bullshit. I can\u2019t wait until his freakin\u2019 contest is over so I can live in the here and now.\u201d But instead all of them treat it like it\u2019s the greatest entertainment ever. So even though a few post \u201980s things like Firefly or the Lord of the Rings movies get mentioned, we\u2019re supposed to believe that nerd pop culture reached a zenith in the \u201980s and nothing worth geek obsession happened between 1990 and 2040? Sorry, but that seems kind of unlikely and the kind of wishful thinking that an aging Gen Xer would write as he pines for his glory days. ...more For most of the first half of this book, I was unimpressed. The writing was flat, and the story was unremarkable. The book gets hype because of its pervasive use of 1980s popular culture, particularly its references to science fiction, fantasy, and video games. The problem was that most of these references served no purpose. Something would be described by pointing out its resemblance to something from a film or television show\u2014a particularly annoying form of \"telling, rather than showing\" given For most of the first half of this book, I was unimpressed. The writing was flat, and the story was unremarkable. The book gets hype because of its pervasive use of 1980s popular culture, particularly its references to science fiction, fantasy, and video games. The problem was that most of these references served no purpose. Something would be described by pointing out its resemblance to something from a film or television show\u2014a particularly annoying form of \"telling, rather than showing\" given that a reader of the wrong age or background won't know the reference\u2014but said reference would add nothing to the events at hand. Either that, or the reference would be carried to cringe-worthy, fan-fiction-grade extremes. For instance, in one scene, the online avatar of the main character, Wade Watts (<---B>known online as Parzival</---B>) pilots a DeLorean DMC-12 resembling the one used in the Back to the Future films, except for the addition of the computerized voice and sweeping red light of KITT from Knight Rider , a pair of Ghost Busters logos adorning the doors, and a license plate reading \"ECTO 88\". Whether mentioned in passing or over the top like the aforementioned mash-up car, however, virtually all of these allusions are brought up and then dropped in the space of a sentence. The DeLorean, for example, takes up a couple of paragraphs and is then never used again. <+++>Ready Player One</+++> doesn't draw from 1980s popular culture; it just name-drops it all over the place. Sometimes it seemed the only purpose for these references was that the author and reader could share a knowing, self-congratulating smile. The notion of a \"massively multiplayer\" online role-playing game becoming the human race's main form of entertainment presents some amusing possibilities, though, and <+++>Ready Player One</+++> doesn't completely squander its potential. The moment when I started to enjoy the book came about halfway through, in a chapter describing a day in Wade's life some time after his (view spoiler) [break-up with Art3mis. Cline shows him putting his life in order, rescuing his health and habits from the pallid, flabby state a life online had put them in. His avatar Parzival, previously a penniless high school student, becomes one of the coolest, most powerful characters in the OASIS. But then, at the end of the chapter, in a moment of insight, Wade realizes that all the good things in his life only exist inside in a world that isn't real. Despite his accomplishments, he lives alone in a featureless one-room apartment, never going or even looking outside. Cline takes the familiar narrative arc of, \"boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy falls into depression, boy turns his life around\" and twists it in a way that I found interesting. (hide spoiler) ] Cline shares the late twentieth century computer geek's vision of the Internet as a benevolent force. Wade has genuine feelings of friendship and love for his online friends, people he would never have met offline, people with whom he shares bonds of mutual interests and ideals rather than geography. An online world is one without racism or other prejudices. (Or at least, it's a world where you can avoid these prejudices by configuring your avatar appropriately. Let's not go into the implications of that .) Furthermore, despite its post-energy-crisis shabbiness, the world of Ready Player One is one in which the good guys have won: free speech, privacy, and \"net neutrality\" all rule the day. At the same time, no matter how cool he tries to make the OASIS (and I admit, it is cool), Cline is conflicted about it. Its pleasures are tempered by the fact that for many of its players it serves as a drug, distracting them from the shabby state of real life in late twenty-first century Earth. Wade's dissatisfaction with a life spent entirely online is explored throughout the book, though never deeply. I would have liked to see the book explore this tension between the unifying and isolating effects of the online world in more detail. In summary, Ready Player One touches on some interesting ideas, although it doesn't explore them as deeply as I would have liked. The writing is nothing special, but it gets the job done. The story gets more interesting in the second half, and the annoying popular culture references become less frequent. I'm glad I stuck it out to the end, but I don't think it deserves whatever hype it's getting in nerd circles. ...more I got to read an ARC of this, and it appealed to every geeky part of me. I'll probably write a blog about it later, but for now, a brief review: Simply said? This book was fucking awesome. This book is a geek fantasy. A nerd utopia. Speaking as a formerly addicted World of Warcraft player (among others), I loved it. I believe you can tell the author's passion from what he's written, and it is clear from this book that <---A>Ernest Cline</---A> is a fellow gamer and geek. I salute him. His ardor for games is so clearly felt within this book. A fellow fangirl/fanboy can sniff out a fake one like a dead fish within a Bath and Body Works (ok, that may be a bad example, but you catch my drift). Erne This book is a geek fantasy. A nerd utopia. Speaking as a formerly addicted World of Warcraft player (among others), I loved it. I believe you can tell the author's passion from what he's written, and it is clear from this book that Ernest Cline is a fellow gamer and geek. I salute him. His ardor for games is so clearly felt within this book. A fellow fangirl/fanboy can sniff out a fake one like a dead fish within a Bath and Body Works (ok, that may be a bad example, but you catch my drift). Ernest Cline is a real-deal fanboy . I salute you, sir. This book is for fanboys and fangirls. There are those who don't like it. There are those who feel that there are needless references , inserted solely for a wink and a nudge from the author to the reader. To those people, I say: SO WHAT?! I welcomed those references. It makes me feel good because I know what they are. Is there something wrong with feeling good and getting an innocent giggle out of understanding a reference? GSS had also licensed preexisting virtual worlds from their competitors, so content that had already been created for games like Everquest and World of Warcraft was ported over to the OASIS, and copies of Norrath and Azeroth were added to the growing catalog of OASIS planets. Other virtual worlds soon followed suit, from the Metaverse to the Matrix. The Firefly universe was anchored in a sector adjacent to the Star Wars galaxy, with a detailed re-creation of the Star Trek universe in the sector adjacent to that. IN ONE PARAGRAPH, HE REFERENCED SO MANY THINGS THAT I LOVE. How could I hate the references? I have a soul!!!!!!!! I get excited, ok? ._. So here's what I liked about this book: 1. I liked the main character 2. I liked the future world 3. I liked the realistic feeling of an online gaming scene Wade is a good kid. He's had a rough life. He's depressed, but he never reaches martyr status. The year after my mom died, I spent a lot of time wallowing in self-pity and despair. I tried to look on the bright side, to remind myself that, orphaned or not, I was still better off than most of the kids in Africa. And Asia. And North America, too. I\u2019d always had a roof over my head and more than enough food to eat. And I had the OASIS. My life wasn\u2019t so bad. At least that\u2019s what I kept telling myself, in a vain attempt to stave off the epic loneliness I now felt. He's nothing special. He's an overweight (and simultaneously malnourished) kid. He doesn't do too well in school. He could be any of my friends who have played games. He is a nice kid. He doesn't blame people for circumstances that are beyond their control. It would have been the easiest thing to hate his mom for being drug-addicted, yet he doesn't. I never blamed my mom for the way things were. She was a victim of fate and cruel circumstance, like everyone else. Her generation had it the hardest. She\u2019d been born into a world of plenty, then had to watch it all slowly vanish. It's a shitty world. People have to survive the best way they know how, sometimes those ways are self-destructive. A lot of the problems with dystopian fiction is that they're too drastic. Barely 100 years into the future, the world has created a new society, etc. The world in this book is set in 2044, and admittedly, it is pretty grim, but I still found it believable. There's been an energy crisis, there's global warming, civilization is decline but not completely in the shithole yet. Life is crappy. I've always thought that life would be awful for my grandchildren, and this book pretty much tells it how I believe it could be. And god help us if Trump is elected president. I also love Cline's explanation of the way online gaming works, down to its community. He clearly knows his shit, from user names to avatars. There are some funny tidbits. Students weren\u2019t allowed to use their avatar names while they were at school. This was to prevent teachers from having to say ridiculous things like \u201cPimp_Grease, please pay attention!\u201d or \u201cBigWang69, would you stand up and give us your book report?\u201d But really, it's the nostalgia of my gaming days that clinches this book for me. The online camaraderie. The late nights gaming together, the bonding that takes place over Ventrilo after defeating a difficult challenge. I got to know many friends whom I wouldn't ordinary have talked to in the real world. It's a bonding experience that is as much a part of the game as the game itself. Often, it's community that truly makes the experience memorable. And yes, the online romances. This book portrays all of that, and so what if it banks on my nostalgia? I'll take it. Granted, it is overly long, and too detailed at times. It does lack complexity, and would be more of a middle-grade book if not for its length and content, but overall, it was a solidly good book. ...more So disappointing. The premise of a treasure hunt inside a gigantic immersive online environment is interesting. I like the idea of the people of 2044 being fixated on '80s culture for clues to solving the puzzle. The execution simply doesn't live up to the promise. The writing goes like this: interestinginterestinginteresting INFODUMP interesti- BIGGER INFODUMP ...and so forth. I honestly don't know who the intended audience is. The author overexplains all the '80s references as if he expects readers So disappointing. The premise of a treasure hunt inside a gigantic immersive online environment is interesting. I like the idea of the people of 2044 being fixated on '80s culture for clues to solving the puzzle. The execution simply doesn't live up to the promise. The writing goes like this: interestinginterestinginteresting INFODUMP interesti- BIGGER INFODUMP ...and so forth. I honestly don't know who the intended audience is. The author overexplains all the '80s references as if he expects readers to be too young or too disconnected from geek culture not to get them, but my experience with SF fandom is that no element of fandom, however old, ever completely dies out; all of us old farts who were teens in the '80s (and, interesting fact, the creator of the book's treasure hunt has the same birth year I do) make sure the young sprouts experience all the golden oldies. This is a first novel, and I make allowances for first novels, but this stretches my tolerance quite a bit. More difficult for me to get past was the poorly-conceived dystopian future from which the story arises; to the bugaboos of environmental destruction, overpopulation, and economic collapse is added the fear of giant, evil corporations. This despite the fact that the guy who set up the enormous online multiverse AND created the treasure hunt did so by creating an enormous corporation of his own. His online creation is lauded (in one of those massive infodumps) as being so egalitarian because they don't charge anything for access, just for the things you buy inside it, but the corporation couldn't have set it up in the first place without needing a grundle of cash. (My computer programmer friends will fall on the floor laughing at the idea that all of those virtual items people buy are pure profit for the company because they \"don't cost anything to make.\") Every time I started to get interested in the story, I came up against some background element that only made sense in a tautological way--it is because it's said to be so. But what really killed it for me, what caused me to finally give up about halfway through, has always been a deal-breaker for me in any work of speculative fiction. I don't like books that seem to exist independently of the great body of work that has explored the same issues or ideas. In this case, it's as if the author has never heard of Tad Williams' Otherland or (despite the hero's homage to Stephenson) The Diamond Age and Snow Crash . These books (I except Stephenson's more recent book Reamde because it was released the same year as Ready Player One ) raised and evaluated issues with virtual reality, and yet Ready Player One does a lot of unnecessary reinventing of the cybernetic wheel. And yes, I do think this is a valid criticism; science fiction is interconnected to a degree that trumps any other genre, except possibly experimental literary fiction. There's an expectation that readers will be familiar with concepts raised elsewhere and have more than a passing familiarity with other SF novels. Ready Player One doesn't do much more than revisit ideas that other authors have explored, and the addition of a high-tech fantasy quest (an admittedly very cool idea) isn't enough to elevate it beyond the ordinary. ...more This book is nostalgia porn. If you grew up in the 80s, enjoy video games, or go crazy for popular culture, you will devour this one. I was supposed to be reading this with a friend but I couldn\u2019t stop. I read the beginning and thought, \u201cwhat\u2019s the big deal with everyone\u2019s obsession?\u201d Then Ernest Cline got his meat hooks into me and I read it while I was making dinner, while I was eating dinner, and then afterward until I\u2019d finished it. I think I am just a few years shy of this books prime audie This book is nostalgia porn. If you grew up in the 80s, enjoy video games, or go crazy for popular culture, you will devour this one. I was supposed to be reading this with a friend but I couldn\u2019t stop. I read the beginning and thought, \u201cwhat\u2019s the big deal with everyone\u2019s obsession?\u201d Then Ernest Cline got his meat hooks into me and I read it while I was making dinner, while I was eating dinner, and then afterward until I\u2019d finished it. I think I am just a few years shy of this books prime audience but I can see how it will appeal to most of my fellow geeks friends. Ready Player One is set in a future where we have depleted our resources to the point where many people lives in Stacks, which are basically just trailer homes piled 20+ high and many people struggle to make ends meet. Wade Watts, the protagonist, attends school in OASIS like many of his peers. OASIS, an online world created by James Halliday contains thousands of different worlds, including copies of many famous sci-fi verses\u2014I\u2019m sure you could spend most of your time in Sunnydale or on Dune if you wanted to. In a very Westing Game move, Halliday leaves his entire $250 billion fortune to the player who can find the Easter egg hidden in OASIS. The book is set five years after his death and no player has gotten even one step closer to figuring out Halliday\u2019s mystery. And the kicker? Halliday\u2019s obsession, besides video games, was the 1980s. All the kids and adults alike are well-versed in all things 1980s from fashion to music to games to computers. These characters know more about the 1980s than most people who lived through it. Wade Watts has spent years playing through all of Halliday\u2019s favorite games and songs trying to figure out the first step. When Wade figures out the first move, his name shoots to the top of a previously empty high-scorers list and the world goes into a frenzy. The entire rest of the book follows Wade and his fellow contestants through the game in their attempts to reach the goal first. It seems like every person in the world is up against each other\u2014especially the \u201cgunters\u201d (egg hunters) and the \u201csixers.\u201d (Corporately-sponsored hunters who want to take over the OASIS for monetary gain, so-called because their avatar names begin with the number 6) My adrenaline ran high for the whole book. In fact, I actually kept speaking to Wade aloud. \u201cWade, what the hell are you doing? You are past the first gate! Pull your head out of your ass and stop spending your time at dance parties!\u201d \u201cArt3mis is so much smarter than you, Wade!\u201d Wade\u2019s fellow gunters include his long-time online crush, Art3mis and his BFF Aech (pronounced like the letter H). They were seriously awesome side characters with distinct personalities, which I especially enjoyed considering I have several friends on Goodreads whom I\u2019ve never met in real life but I feel like I know pretty well. (view spoiler) [But if one of you is completely lying to me, I\u2019m a\u2019gonna be pissed. (hide spoiler) ] My experience with WoW and Second Life is pretty minimal\u2026well, I did once try Second Life but it mostly consisted of my friends and I goofing around and then accidentally wandering into an orgy and getting yelled at. Anyway, my point is that people quest all the time and talk to the same people regularly online. They have distinct personalities. I\u2019m so happy that Ernest Cline was able to capture the personalities so well when the characters were only together outside of OASIS for limited amounts of time. As someone who has spent probably entire weeks of her life playing video games, this book feels a bit like validation. SEE, NERD! YOUR TIME SPENT COLLECTING RUPEES WASN\u2019T FOR NOTHING! Thanks to the publisher and Netgalley for providing me with a copy of this highly addictive and fun read! ...more I felt like I was born to get the references in this book. And I was so impressed with the way the references WORK. The way they push the story forward and give it texture. So many scenes in the book FEEL like videogames or role-playing games -- but in a really rich, excellent way. I read this right after I read \"Ender's Game,\" which is the sort of book that would get mentioned in \"Ready Player One\" -- and I was struck by how Cline references old-school science fiction and videogames in the servi I felt like I was born to get the references in this book. And I was so impressed with the way the references WORK. The way they push the story forward and give it texture. So many scenes in the book FEEL like videogames or role-playing games -- but in a really rich, excellent way. I read this right after I read \"Ender's Game,\" which is the sort of book that would get mentioned in \"Ready Player One\" -- and I was struck by how Cline references old-school science fiction and videogames in the service of something so much warmer and more robust. Also, the love story is fantastic. It's not the point of the book, but it feels sweet and real and not at all tacked on. (This is something I pay a lot of attention to when I'm reading.) Thank you to my brother Forest, who insisted I read this. ...more I just kinda wanna cry right now. I'll have a proper review at some point, but I gotta let myself recover. VIDEO REVIEW: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9hxa4... NERDGASM!!!!!!! Video games, movies and music from the 80's! My teenage years were spent during the 80's. I look through the pictures that were taken at that time and realize we could have been called a cheesy generation. This book saves us. This book makes us cool. I actually wanted to revisit those times after reading this book. It's not deep literature but it is pure fun. I smiled and cheered so many times reading Wade's story, even though you know how the book is going to end it is still a po NERDGASM!!!!!!! Video games, movies and music from the 80's! My teenage years were spent during the 80's. I look through the pictures that were taken at that time and realize we could have been called a cheesy generation. This book saves us. This book makes us cool. I actually wanted to revisit those times after reading this book. It's not deep literature but it is pure fun. I smiled and cheered so many times reading Wade's story, even though you know how the book is going to end it is still a popcorn needing ride to get to that ending. I'm not going to bother telling you about the books story because other reviewers have done a wonderful job of that. I'm gonna gif spam you! (Every once in awhile I have to give the gif haters something to bitch about) ...more That one star is probably misleading...I thought this was going to be a 4-5 star book for a good portion of the time I spent reading it. The 80s pop-culture references are so pervasive and so relevant to my life that, at times, the book felt like it been written specifically for me. (The love interest is described as being like Jordan, from Real Genius...c'mon!) But. All of the Star Wars, Ferris Bueller, and Highlander references in the world can't hide that this story is at best, empty, and at wo That one star is probably misleading...I thought this was going to be a 4-5 star book for a good portion of the time I spent reading it. The 80s pop-culture references are so pervasive and so relevant to my life that, at times, the book felt like it been written specifically for me. (The love interest is described as being like Jordan, from Real Genius...c'mon!) But. All of the Star Wars, Ferris Bueller, and Highlander references in the world can't hide that this story is at best, empty, and at worst, ugly. Rote plotting, un-earned dickensian coincidences, clumsy deus ex machina (I still don't know how to pluralize that term), the worst kind of tokenism disguised as actually valuing diversity, a profound neglect of the complexities of the real/virtual world dichotomy...Cline has adopted some of the style of Gibson and Stephenson, but none of the substance. In a nice manifestation of the novel's lack of self-awareness, Cline at one point derides the villains of the book for simply using \"Johnny 5\" style robots from Short Circuit instead coming up with their own design. This appropriation, he explaines, demonstrates \"a lack of imagination,\" a valid criticism that only too accurately applies to the ostensible heroes of the book, as well as to Cline himself. Update: The plural of \"deus ex machina\" is \"dei ex machinis\". Thanks, The Awl! ...more let me get the gripes out of the way first, because despite overall being a fun, escapist book, there are things that rankle. i have a crush on the 80's ( not an obsession, mind you , but a crush. when i was little i managed to simultaneously want to make out with both jon cryer and molly ringwald and to this day depeche mode's album black celebration soothes many sorrows. so a book that revolves around 80's pop culture sounded like my kind of thing, even if a lot of the references are video game re let me get the gripes out of the way first, because despite overall being a fun, escapist book, there are things that rankle. i have a crush on the 80's ( not an obsession, mind you , but a crush. when i was little i managed to simultaneously want to make out with both jon cryer and molly ringwald and to this day depeche mode's album black celebration soothes many sorrows. so a book that revolves around 80's pop culture sounded like my kind of thing, even if a lot of the references are video game related, and the minutiae, while impressive, could have been made up for all i knew because i enjoyed the atari back in the day, but i wasn't a serious video game geek. (although i did take my atari 2600 to college in 1995 - i was the original ironic hipster - recognize!) i am getting to the gripes now after one more brief personal anecdote. i used to go to a lot of new wave dance nights. (if i am being honest, most of them were \"dark\" new wave, bordering on goth: camouflage, wolfsheim, anything box, the normal, soft cell) and towards the end of my going to this one particular club, they used to frequently slip sit down by james in there. and i used to get so irate. because 1) you cannot dance to that song. 2) you cannot go from the sun always shines on TV to jaunty britpop and 3) (but i just consulted queen wikipedia and learned i was absolutely wrong) it is not an 80's song. as it turns out, it is. 1989. and this undermines my entire argument so let's pretend my initial misconception was correct and i am not just wrong in everything i do. but that was my problem with this book. if we take as fact that james halliday's obsession was the eighties, than how is quentin tarantino among his favorite directors?? or neal stephenson among his favorite writers?? and unless he really loves the meaning of life , what the hell is monty python doing in there? there is a long pivotal scene involving the acting-out of scenes from the holy grail . i don't even need queen wikipedia to know that that movie came out in 1975. and don't give me attitude about geek culture and how integral that movie is to geeks everywhere because trust me, i am aware. and \"well, the seventies were really the eighties...\" no. this is a novel. the character has built an entire life around being obsessed with the pop culture of the 80's. commit to your premise!! you wrote this - stick to it! it's not like there is a dearth of source material, that's kind of what the 80's were for .it was ALL pop culture. but that aside - this is definitely a lot of fun. if there was such a thing, i would call this a popcorn book. it is fun and fast-paced, and if you are old enough, you will chuckle, and if you are younger, you will probably be baffled and miss a lot of the slyly inserted references, but that's okay because you have your whole life ahead of you, so it's a trade off for those of us in our dotage. he gets points for having an oingo boingo reference on page two - that pretty much cemented my engagement in the book, so smart move there. and i loved all the swordquest references. because i know i have gone off about this in another review somewhere , but seriously, doubleyoo tee eff?? . i am also glad that he realized he was just writing a tech version of charlie and the chocolate factory . that's all i was thinking of at the beginning, and when he finally references it, it is just to say \"nooooo this is different .\" but it is pretty much the same premise. but he is wise to distance himself from c.a.t.c.f., because, hello?? 1964. not 1984. dunno - this is going to be a huge hit when it comes out, mark my words. and i expect it will eventually be adapted into a movie. and i will buy the soundtrack to that movie. ...more \"I'm not crazy about reality, but it's still the only place to get a decent meal.\" Groucho Marx The middle school I attended was a 1930s WPA project that by the 1970s was a lethal cocktail of toxic mold from the water leaks and cancer causing asbestos. I'm hoping, since several decades have passed, that all the nasty microbes I inhaled while conjugating verbs and wrestling with algebra have long since been frog marched out of my body. I was a rural kid and had to wait for the bus to come pick me \"I'm not crazy about reality, but it's still the only place to get a decent meal.\" Groucho Marx The middle school I attended was a 1930s WPA project that by the 1970s was a lethal cocktail of toxic mold from the water leaks and cancer causing asbestos. I'm hoping, since several decades have passed, that all the nasty microbes I inhaled while conjugating verbs and wrestling with algebra have long since been frog marched out of my body. I was a rural kid and had to wait for the bus to come pick me up after school. The bus was always late which was a real pain in the ass for a scrawny kid like me who was trying to avoid the hulking, megalithic Hoover clan. They were massive, with beach ball bellies and Neanderthal brows. They had freckle specked Popeye arms and flaming red hair. They were full grown men in middle school with mustaches and sideburns. They liked to grab underweight kids by the neck and dangle them off the ground for entertainment. A new pizza place opened across the highway. The pizza was passable, but I wasn't there for the pizza. When I walked in those doors I claimed sanctuary. It didn't take long for the owner to 86 the Hoover boys because he didn't want me to be interrupted putting quarter after quarter into this colorful black box called DEFENDER . If I were to get the high score the pizza guy would give me a slice. I soon learned that I could barter that slice for safe conduct onto my bus. It was worth the investment to buy a piece and watch the Hoover boys men tear the slice into pieces nearly coming to blows in the process, although I probably could have brought them roadkill with similar results. The place also had Asteroids which I loved as well, but my first love was Defender. I would only play Asteroids if someone was already playing Defender. Even while immersed in blowing up interstellar asteroids I would catch myself looking longingly over at Defender. Yes, it was a whirlwind romance born out of a need for survival. When I moved to high school I would stop in once in a while, but I'd grown as a person and Defender...well...had stayed the same. Our romance had gotten away from us somehow and it was time for both of us to move on to other people like Molly Ringwald. Yes, I know it is embarrassing to admit it now, but I, like a large majority of boys and a good percentage of girls, had a crush on Molly. She wasn't the best role model for girls and I paid the price for her influence. The girls I dated in high school were that much more a pain in the ass because Molly Ringwald was their idol from the clothes they wore to the way they talked. Is that the time period when High Maintenance came into common usage? I wore a Members Only jacket and wished like hell my parents had cable so I could watch MTV. It was always a struggle trying to be cool in Kansas in the 1980s. Wade Watts, our hero, is an orphan. He was taken in by an aunt because she wanted the extra food vouchers. She doesn't share the food,a bit of a Dickens situation going on, which forces Wade to scramble for his own food supply. They live in these lovely stacked trailers on the outskirts of Oklahoma City. \"We lived in the Portland Avenue Stacks, a sprawling hive of discolored tin shoeboxes rusting on the shores of I-40, just west of Oklahoma City's decaying skyscraper core. It was a collection of over five hundred individual stacks, all connected to each other by a makeshift network of recycled pipes, girders, support beams, and footbridges. The spires of a dozen ancient construction cranes (used to do the actual stacking) were positioned around the stacks' ever expanding outer perimeter. Living in this world of 2044 would have been horrible except for a man named James Halliday who had invented OASIS a sprawling virtual utopia . You could live in the nastiest slag heap on the planet, but in OASIS, where you spent most of your time, you could build a paradise. When Halliday died he left a series of clues that created a world sensation. The first person to figure out the clues wins the Halliday fortune...$140 billion. Halliday was a fan of 1980s pop culture and built his clues around his love of that era. Those involved in the search have to become experts on everything 1980s. The dialogue of every John Hughes film, the man who brought us Molly Ringwald, must be memorized. They have to learn how to play vintage video games such as Defender, Asteroids, Joust and Pac-Man. They have to watch all the television episodes from that era searching for clues to the puzzle. They have to know Devo lyrics and the words to every other 1980s pop song. Needless to say, most of the population give up, and go back to other pursuits as the years pass without any breakthroughs. Wade is determined and with the help of his best friend Aech pronounced H they continue to sift through archival material looking for that clue that will lead them to the next clue. When Wade finds the first clue and opens the first gate of the elaborate treasure hunt he becomes a world sensation, and draws the attention of the Sixers, the evil corporation intent on dominating OASIS. If they find the clues before Wade and his friends, and unlock the Halliday fortune, OASIS would be under their control. During his quest, his online name is Parzival, Wade meets a girl. \"It was Art3mis. She wore a suit of scaled gunmetal-blue armor that looked more sci-fi than fantasy. Twin blaster pistols were slung low on her hips in quick draw holsters, and there was a long, curved elvish sword in a scabbard across her back. She wore fingerless Road Warrior-style racing gloves and a pair of classic Ray-Ban shades. Overall, she seemed to be going for a sort of mid-'80s postapocalyptic cyberpunk girl-next-door look. And it was working for me, in a big way. In a word:hot. I'm such a sucker for boy meets girl, boy wins girl, boy loses girl, boy wins girl back. Cline mines this tried and true formula to perfection. The reader is shotgunned with 1980s pop culture which I know has bothered some reviewers. I thought it was great. I've been listening to '80s music all week on my iPod because the book brought back memories of songs that I first heard on cassette tapes. I wasn't ever a gamer. My brief fling with Defender has been the only time I've spent any significant amount of time playing video games. To enjoy this book I don't think you have to be a connoisseur of vintage video games or have spent hours playing D&D, but I think those people with that background will enjoy it more because the references will ignite; hopefully, fond memories for them. If you pine for the 1980s you should definitely read this book. The plot was fascinating and kept the pages turning. This book went viral in the collecting world. First edition, first printing are bringing $200. I read somewhere that the print run was 15,000 which is reasonably small. If a large percentage of the first printings were bought by libraries it could stay a much sought after collectible for years to come. If you have a first edition, first printing tuck it away somewhere safe. It could turn out to provide a really good return on your initial investment. If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.com I also have a Facebook blogger page at: https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten ...more WOOT , WOOT and UBER WOOT all you MMORPGers , this book is the perfect calm down, happy face diversion next time you find yourself offline and frustrated because: ** you\u2019re stuck medding back in a safe zone after nearly being ganked by some douchey griefers who jumped your camp site when the mob you were going to farm spawned so they could kill steal it and abscond with your loot ; or maybe ** some group of questing ubers turned asshat and refused to let your alt join them so you could PL by leechin WOOT , WOOT and UBER WOOT all you MMORPGers , this book is the perfect calm down, happy face diversion next time you find yourself offline and frustrated because: ** you\u2019re stuck medding back in a safe zone after nearly being ganked by some douchey griefers who jumped your camp site when the mob you were going to farm spawned so they could kill steal it and abscond with your loot ; or maybe ** some group of questing ubers turned asshat and refused to let your alt join them so you could PL by leeching the req XP needed to ding your secondary avatar from its noob status to a respectable lvl ; or maybe ** you find yourself nerfed by some cockblocking GM after your mage\u2019s Nuke spells become so uber when properly stacked that they can pwn any PVE and even dirt nap most elites in a PVP and send them back to their bind to needing to rez ; or maybe even ** you\u2019re AFK for two minutes for a bio break and suddenly become LD as a result of spouse aggro after you told your guild mates you\u2019d BRB so you could all raid a high risk dungeon for epics and mega XPs . If you find yourself in one of the above predicaments (especially the last one), rather than raging at the unfairness of the world.....of warcraft, just put down the hot pockets, turn off the team speak line, maybe take a shower and brush your teeth, and then curl up with your real life avatar and geek out to the NOSTALGIAwesomeness of this 1980\u2019s homage de extraordinaire that will have you spouting quotes from War Games and Monty Python\u2019s Holy Grail while digging out your old Pac man posters and ALF t-shirts, listening to a little A Flock of Seagulls and Alphaville and dropping the first two seasons of Family Ties and Silver Spoons into your Amazon cart prepping for an 80\u2019s TV marathon session. This book is VH-1\u2019s \u201cI love the 80\u2019s\u201d coded for gamers\u2026.and it works beautifully. Set in the mid 21st century when America has gone completely in the shitter and almost everyone spends the majority of their lives in a vast virtual-reality game/universe known as The Oasis. The Oasis is free to use (i.e., no monthly subscription fees) and there are no barriers to access. In fact, the Oasis is so all pervasive that game credits are the world\u2019s most stable currency and the public school system has been coded online so people can learn from home. The designer of the Oasis, James Halliday, was an 80\u2019s obsessed super nerd who loaded his VR-world with tons and tone of simulations paying tribute to the decade of greed. Inside the Oasis, all things 80\u2019s lurk and you can visit whole planets devoted to Star Wars, Blade Runner or the A-team or just sit in your virtual basement and watch every Japanese monster movie ever made. The above is just a brief thumbnail of the Oasis which is incredibly complex and amazingly cool. Cline definitely gets an A+ for his world-building and his creation is certainly among the best world\u2019s I have visited in my literary travels this year. With that brief background, the plot concerns a race to control the Oasis after Halliday dies and leaves a most unusual will. He has hidden a \u201csilver egg\u201d in the Oasis that can only be located by first finding 3 special keys to unlock 3 special gates. The person that finds the egg will inherit Halliday\u2019s entire fortune (240 B-B-B-Billion dollars) and, most importantly, become the owner of the Oasis itself. Our hero is a high school kid named Wade who is a master gamer and knower of all things trivial from the 1980\u2019s. He and a group of like minded \u201cgunthers\u201d are racing to find the silver egg before the big bad, meganormous corporation and their army of crew-cut, muscle-bound on-line soldiers discover it first and turn the Oasis into a corporate money-making machine. That's about it for the plot description, but the real fun is in the pop culture details that saturate every page of the narrative. This is great escapism and I had a lot of fun with it. I will say that as good as this was, I couldn\u2019t help but think that in different hands this would have been an easy 5 star \u201call time favorite\u201d kind of book. I mean given the subject matter, 4 stars was almost pre-ordained. Still, I did really enjoy myself and the 4 stars are much deserved. It just wasn't perfect and I so wanted it to be perfect...but it is pretty darn close. Finally, I want to point out that I listened to the audio version narrated by Ensign Crusher himself, Wil Wheaton, who was absolutely PERFECT for this book. This was one of those book/narrator combos that are just a match made in heaven. I certainly recommend going that route if you have the chance. 4.0 to 4.5 stars. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!! **P.S. With regard to my introduction, I have never played an MMORPG before so I apologize to all the gamers out there if I totally messed up the terminology. I did my best and you guys should really put out a comprehensive dictionary to help us noobs out. ...more This reached into the gamer part of my heart and gave it a big piece of red velvet cake. :) There's this conceit that keeps popping up in sci-fi dystopia novels that it is only a matter of time before we will all be glued to our virtual reality goggles 24 hours a day as elaborate MMPORPGs slowly take over the world. I think this is stupid. No matter how increasingly ubiquitous computers become, I just don't foresee Second Life replacing the first one (FarmVille may have replaced actual farming, but that conversation involves a lecture on government subsidies that I just don't have time There's this conceit that keeps popping up in sci-fi dystopia novels that it is only a matter of time before we will all be glued to our virtual reality goggles 24 hours a day as elaborate MMPORPGs slowly take over the world. I think this is stupid. No matter how increasingly ubiquitous computers become, I just don't foresee Second Life replacing the first one (FarmVille may have replaced actual farming, but that conversation involves a lecture on government subsidies that I just don't have time for at the moment). But all of these books are written by sci-fi authors, therefore geeks, therefore gamers, therefore open to this kind of concept. If they are of a certain age, it probably seems like an extension of the D&D-fueled fantasy sessions that sustained them through high school. I wasn't a D&D geek (though admittedly in a \"there but for the grace of God\" way). I have never played an online quest game -- I am not drawn to the fantasy. I don't have that strong a desire to escape the real world, as dissatisfying as it can be sometimes, as much as I'd rather be a Han Solo avatar flying around in the Falcon. Ernest Cline, by all accounts, was exactly that geek, getting lost in fantasy worlds. And I give him credit: he goes to great lengths to justify the replacement of the virtual for the real, and he makes it sound damn plausible. Imagine the world forty years from now: we have run out of oil. Corporations have replaced governments with puppet regimes (all voting is online, so only celebrities and reality stars have a shot at office). The environment is in shambles, the Great Recession is in its fourth decade, overcrowded and dangerous cities are surrounded by suburban wastelands. Would not you rather stay in your efficiency apartment and play virtual reality? Wade is an overweight and unattractive teen who barely has a life outside of OASIS, a web platform that, by 2044, has totally replaced the internet (with travel dangerous and difficult, most everyday commerce is virtual). His real life sucks. His parents are dead, and he lives in a teetering 200-foot-tall stack of trailers with his cruel aunt and her abusive boyfriend of the month. He was getting beaten up too much at school, so now he goes to classes online. All he lives for is OASIS, and the search for the Egg. See, when James Halliday, the Bill Gates-like inventor of the OASIS, died, he hid his will (and the rights to his fortune and control of OASIS itself) somewhere inside the game, on any one of thousands of virtual worlds. For years, no one has been able to crack even the first clue to its location, though not for lack of trying: a whole community of gamers has sprung up in search of it. Some are lone wolves like Wade; others band together or go corporate and work for the evil IOI Corp. ( Corporations: Your Friends in Evil Since 1601 ). Most of their efforts are focused on studying the obsessions of Halliday's youth, which they figure are key to winning the hunt. Conveniently for Cline, his and Halliday's obsessions are one and the same: everything nerdy about the 1980s. Gaming, TV, movies, music -- if someone has gotten into a heated debate over it in a basement somewhere, or painted a mural of it on the side of a van, it's in here. Look, this book is a lot of fun. A lot . I read it compulsively, like few books in recent memory. But... I don't think it is very well written. I have a lot of problems with it: Wade is a cypher, a blatant audience surrogate (provided the audience is or has been an introverted teen boy, which...). There is this whole romance angle between Wade and another hunter, Art3mis, that is just there because the plot needs a love interest. There is frequent, blatant exposition that often makes no sense (Wade tells his story in the first person, presumably to his contemporaries, so why is he explaining very basic things like what OASIS is and how you operate within it?). The background of various geek properties is often given in exhaustive, Wikipedia-like detail. I find it hard to believe that the solutions to the puzzles went undiscovered for five years, since they seem pretty obvious to me and my limited experience in online alternate reality games has taught me that there is no puzzle so complex that the internet won't solve it given 20 minutes and a Yahoo message board (read up on \"The Beast\" sometime for an interesting example). Oh, also there are several blatant continuity errors within chapters or even from one page to the next (minor example: at one point Wade freaks out about getting to class because if he doesn't, he will lose his school-issued OASIS machine; a few chapters later he stops going but it's fine because he already has the credits to graduate). All that stuff: basically doesn't matter. At all. I still loved the crap out of every page. The plot is as propulsive, structured and satisfying as The Hunger Games. The corporate villains raise the real world stakes when they start murdering gamers offline. And Cline takes full advantage of an unlimited sandbox of geekdom, dreaming up some very cool scenarios (want to literally immerse yourself in your favorite '80s movie? How about transform into Ultraman to fight Mecha-Godzilla and Voltron?). What's most fun is waiting around for Cline to name-drop your geek property of choice. Will there still be annoying Browncoats in 2045? Looks like it: Wade zooms around virtual space in a Firefly class shuttle. Lightsabers, transporters ( Stars , both Wars and Trek ). Giant robots ( Voltron , Neon Genesis Evangelion , Ultraman ). More video games than I can count (but no classic Nintendo! Where is Mario in all of this?). Blade Runner . Brazil . Back to the Future . Indiana Jones. Ghostbusters . Rush (Really? People like Rush?). One* almost needs footnotes to place them all. *I mean, not me. If this book taught me anything, it is that I am a bigger geek than I ever imagined. Can you enjoy this book without getting all the references? I think so. But... do you even want to? That is where I am confused. I believe this is being published as a YA title, and it's certainly written as one. Yet today's Ys think the '80s sound like they happened a looooong time ago, and I haven't read a YA book packed with jokey references to obscure 1960s pop culture lately. I mean, do kids even know what a \"modem\" is? If you gained sentience post-2000, the internet has just always been there, floating through the air. What do you mean, they used to require a phone line and made annoying noises? What's that? A computer that uses a tape deck instead of a floppy disk drive? A) What is a \"cassette tape\"? B) What is a \"floppy disk\"? (Ooh, is it dirty ?) This book will probably make you feel old. I am not even old and it made me feel old. Remember dial-up? Remember AOL busy signals? Remember when no one had cell phones? Remember when no one but engineers, the military and Matthew Broderick had the internet? Remember the NES, Atari 2600, Colecovision? I do. But how long until I'm senile? Probably not that long. ...more In the dystopian future of 2044, the world is going down the crapper and many people spend most of their free time playing OASIS, an online virtual reality game, sifting through every minute detail of the creator's life, for whomever unravels a series of riddles James Halliday left behind inherits it all. Will teenager Wade Watts be the one? As I've said in the past, every once in a while a reader will unearth a book that feels as if it was written especially for them. For me, Ready Player One is In the dystopian future of 2044, the world is going down the crapper and many people spend most of their free time playing OASIS, an online virtual reality game, sifting through every minute detail of the creator's life, for whomever unravels a series of riddles James Halliday left behind inherits it all. Will teenager Wade Watts be the one? As I've said in the past, every once in a while a reader will unearth a book that feels as if it was written especially for them. For me, Ready Player One is one of those books. I wasn't completely sold at first. OASIS reminded me of The Metaverse from Snow Crash and Wade wasn't all that interesting to me. Then he referenced The Last Starfighter and I suddenly became more interested. By the time the Tomb of Horrors was mentioned, I was completely hooked. The plot's structure isn't that revolutionary. It's pretty much your standard hero's journey. As the story unfolded, the characters are what made the book unputdownable. The setting, a dystopia where there's a Global Energy Crisis going on and people live in skyscraper-trailer parks called stacks is both imaginative and horribly plausible. I hate to admit it but I was feeling some kinship with Wade as the book progressed. Is spending most of your free time in OASIS really that much different than reading for hours on end? Also, the book explores the nature of people and their online avatars. The revelation of Aech's true identity illustrates the difference between perception and reality quite nicely, just like the time when I met Kemper and discovered he wasn't a gun-toting chimp in a suit. Apparently, he left his guns at home that day. Or the time when I met Stephen and discovered he WAS a book-reviewing robot. A large part of the appeal of Ready Player One is the astounding amount of pop culture references. While most of them are from the 1980's, a few are not. The Matrix and Monty Python and the Holy Grail, for example. I suspect younger readers won't get as many of the reference and not enjoy the books as much. However, as a child of the 80's and a dyed in the wool geek, I enjoyed the book very very much. As I said earlier, the plot isn't revolutionary but it's still an enjoyable read. A single man-tear threatened to escape my eye during the epilogue but I fought it back. Much Later Edit: The passage of time has colored my perception of this book. As I was reading Ready Player One, I thought it was the greatest thing since Tetris. However, once you strip away the nostalgia, it's still enjoyable but really nothing special. I'm downgrading it to a more realistic 3.5. ...more THIS IS POSSIBLY THE BEST BOOK IN EXISTENCE. LIKE...FO REALZ. Reviewed by: Rabid Reads I've heard, you've probably heard, HELL, most people who read some variation of SFF have heard that READY PLAYER ONE is freaking amazing b/c it's swarming with '80s pop culture/nerd references. And it is. Absolutely. But even though I've had the book for years, I only recently got around to picking it up (and only b/c impromptu roadtripping with Husband, and sacrifices must be made when trying to find a book we'll both have a shot at liking), b/c as much fondness as I have Reviewed by: Rabid Reads I've heard, you've probably heard, HELL, most people who read some variation of SFF have heard that READY PLAYER ONE is freaking amazing b/c it's swarming with '80s pop culture/nerd references. And it is. Absolutely. But even though I've had the book for years, I only recently got around to picking it up (and only b/c impromptu roadtripping with Husband, and sacrifices must be made when trying to find a book we'll both have a shot at liking), b/c as much fondness as I have for the decade, it's not enough to warrant reading a book solely b/c '80s! Yay! *shrugs* It's just not. #sorrynotsorry Which is why I feel the book has been done a major disservice. Nostalgia for the '80s might not be a good enough reason for me--and a lot of others as well--to pick up READY PLAYER ONE, but you know what is? THIS: I spent a big chunk of my childhood hanging out in a virtual-reality simulation of Sesame Street, singing songs with friendly Muppets and playing interactive games that taught me how to walk, talk, add, subtract, read, write, and share. And THIS: In my Astronomy class we visited each of Jupiter\u2019s moons. We stood on the volcanic surface of Io while our teacher explained how the moon had originally formed. As our teacher spoke to us, Jupiter loomed behind her, filling half the sky, its Great Red Spot churning slowly just over her left shoulder. Then she snapped her fingers and we were standing on Europa, discussing the possibility of extraterrestrial life beneath the moon\u2019s icy crust. And a MULTITUDE of similarly awesome things. It's also important to know the '80s pop culture awesomeness isn't superfluous--it naturally extends from the plot line. Wade Watts lives in a bleak future version of our world where the majority escape their mundane existence by spending as much time as humanly possible in virtual realities. The realities Wade visits are mostly inspired by the '80s and popular geek culture spanning from the advent of gym-sized computers to our present. You can level up your avatar by completing quests, MMO-style, which also helps you accumulate armor and weapons. It's like WoW immersion. *whispers* How cool is that? But Wade's focus, along with many, many others is the pursuit of deceased James Halliday's, the creator of the OASIS (the virtual reality space in which all these worlds exist), Easter Egg. Halliday was socially awkward in the extreme, you see, thus leaving him without friends or family to bequeath his multi-billion dollar fortune to. So he created a quest, solvable by deciphering obscure clues referencing his favorite games, movies, and music. It's been over five years since Halliday's death, and no one has been able to complete even the first leg of the three part journey. But that's about to change. READY PLAYER ONE is much more than cornball Brat Pack references distracting you from a weak plot. It's part Rat Race, part geek-out, part DAMN-the-man, and I loved ALL of it. If you've ever wished you had your own Star Wars X-Wing, or wanted to explore Azeroth in person, this book will have you green with envy and simultaneously fangirling harder than you ever have in your life. Highly recommended. ...more OH HOHOHOHOHO THIS BOOK WAS GOOOOOOOD It was so different from anything else I've ever read and it put my knowledge of 80s movies, Dungeons and Dragons, and Monty Python to good use! Honestly, read this. Just do it. WOW !!! (Pun intended, if you what I meant ;) ) Charlie and the Chocolate Factory meets The Big Bang Theory meets TRON (raised to the nth power(TRON, I mean)). The most clear appealing to read this novel is obviously the insane quantity of geek references, mostly to 80's era (and some of 70's too), so maybe people who aren't geek (don't worry, nobody is perfect) may be feel alienated and/or not interested to read this book. I can't deny the advantage of being a geek, specially raised in the now WOW !!! (Pun intended, if you what I meant ;) ) Charlie and the Chocolate Factory meets The Big Bang Theory meets TRON (raised to the nth power(TRON, I mean)). The most clear appealing to read this novel is obviously the insane quantity of geek references, mostly to 80's era (and some of 70's too), so maybe people who aren't geek (don't worry, nobody is perfect) may be feel alienated and/or not interested to read this book. I can't deny the advantage of being a geek, specially raised in the now classic time known as \"The 80s\", to understand almost all references and stuff that it's commented on the narrative. However, honestly I think that even you aren't a geek per se, if you are looking for a good novel in the dystopian genre with young brave heroes battling against a powerful corporation determined to rule society, well, I am sure that you will be able to enjoy quite enough the general core of the storyline. ( While it's almost impossible that a novel can coincide with our own personal favorites of 80's and 70's, I thought to quote some of mine along the review. If you don't get them, don't worry, they're not relevant to the review itself. Just indulge me. ) I feel the need. The need for speed! While on the novel is stated that, Wade Watts, the main character thinks that God doesn't exist and even, James Halliday, the key trigger of the story, is an atheist. I really think that religion is a strong issue in this novel. Wade a.k.a. Parzival didn't believe in God and therefore he doesn't read The Bible , BUT he believes in Halliday and he reads with passion the Anorak's Almanac , reaching the point of knowing almost anything about Halliday's life and his tastes on films, TV, music, books, etc... So, basically he changed the name of his raw human necessity of a god or a higher power in which to believe on. Even it's amusing to notice a moment where Wade calls the name of the deity in Conan's stories, since he is an \"atheist\", he \"can't\" claim that his luck was because the common perception of god. However, not matter the name that you choose, in the moment that you acknowledges that your life may be affected by the hand of a superior power, well, it's non-relevant which name you opted to use. God is God. Another religious evolution in the story is another raw impulse in human beings... becoming a god. Halliday, with the creation of his Easter's Egg contest, he acomplishes that a whole generation (even severals of it) became obssesed with his life and his personal tastes, influencing the way of thinking and speaking of all those interested to get the ultimate prize. Wade goes to that too, since he is able to reach positions that nobody else has ever done before and he is able to taste how is like to be a god and that thousands of strangers get interested to follow his life and his tastes. Darmok and Jalad... at Tanagra. Any person has tastes and opinions, and most of the cases, we are sure that we are right about them, so we expressed them and in the bottom of our souls, we are convinced that we have excellent taste in things and that the rest of people should read, watch and hear all that it's of our preference, and therefore, they will become as \"wise\" and \"illuminated\" as us. And the ambiance of this novel is almost just like how we are living now. Certainly we don't have a virtual universe so advanced as the OASIS, but internet, the social networks, blogs, forums, etc... are allowing to us to express our opinions about anything. Ironically, in the 80s, our circle of influence was absurdly limited, we barely were able to express it to our closest friends and family, but now? We can reach any human being with access to internet. The generational gaps occur mainly because old people aren't interested to know about new suff, while young people aren't interested to know about old stuff. As simple as that. Everybody thinks that \"his/her\" stuff is better than the others'. It's amusing to see in this novel that a LOT of young people (in the future of 2044) are eager to learn about \"old\" stuff just because there is a huge prize involving money, and guess what? Many of them starting to find out how cool of that \"old\" stuff is. Too bad that there is have to be an incentive of money to make them to realize that. I think that I am lucky since I don't discriminate stuff for the era when it appeared. Why do I have to choose just \"my\" era? Why do I have to limit myself? I have \"my stuff\" of the generation where I grew up, but I do my best all the time to learn about stuff of before I even born and I do my best to keep up with new stuff. Only my death will set how many stuff I will be able to enjoy in my entire life. Each era has its charm and I am enjoying all of them. Gathered together from the cosmic reaches of the universe \u2013 here in this great hall of justice - are the most powerful forces of good ever assembled. In the 80s (and before), our social experiences were quite identical in our circles, we watched the same local TV shows, the same movies, etc... but now? Theathers launch multiple premieres each weekend, cable has more than 100 channels showing programming 24/7/365, publishing houses release hundred of books each month, etc... So, nowadays is almost impossible to find a single other soul watching, reading and hearing the very same stuff that we do. We'll have intersection points, several of them, but at the end, each of us, we are walking our own paths of entertainment. Even before, we innocently thought that the \"good stuff\" was the same for all the rest of people. Now, we have certainty that a thing (naming book, film, TV show, song, etc...) that we love, may be hated by others, and viceversa. And that's okay. We are all different. Only we have to learn to respect the opinion of others, in the understanding that we do the same. Keep on pushing me baby Don't you know you drive me crazy You just keep on pushing my love over the borderline. Referring to the novel itself, I must point out that I found some of the challenges repetitive decreasing the excitement or reaching each of the three legendary gates. There are tests that they are basically the same just choosing a different \"environment\" and/or \"theme\". Also, I think that the author didn't want that anyone would be able to guess the riddles, I mean, this is not like a detective mystery novel that you may not notice the clues in clear sight, but they are there, you just didn't giving them importance, no, in here, some of the riddles are solved showing knowledge of elements in the environment of the story that they are impossible for you to know its existence. And getting back the \"religious\" angle in a way of speaking, there are a lot of scenes where you met a \"Deus ex machina\" element, where any character has a key gadget, never mentioned before, that it's perfect to solve the trouble. Not always is like that. However, I noticed enough instants like that, just to mention it. At the end, the novel has an engaging narrative style that keeps you entertained all the way, marvelling about this extraordinary future with all its wonders and dangers. Highly recommended. Choose your own life, enjoy each moment of it and don't worry about others think. People of good will and true friends are going to be happy for you not matter what you do in your lives and they will respect you too. P.S. Solution for the Alejandro's Easter Egg in this review: (view spoiler) [I'm kidding! :P It could be cool to hide an easter egg in the review but I didn't think anything. Excuse me for the innocent joke. But, you got curious and you had to take a peek, don't you? Mmh? Hehehe. (hide spoiler) ] ...more I found myself smiling frequently while reading this. Willy Wonka meets The Matrix in the near future online game age. I almost typed video age and that would date me back in the 1980s, but that would be OK too. Like James Halliday, I was a teenager in the late eighties and so Ready Player One by Ernest Cline has a special place for me. I played Dungeons and Dragons (I was even dungeon master for a Tomb of Horrors campaign) I played coin operated video games, I obviously dig science fiction and I found myself smiling frequently while reading this. Willy Wonka meets The Matrix in the near future online game age. I almost typed video age and that would date me back in the 1980s, but that would be OK too. Like James Halliday, I was a teenager in the late eighties and so Ready Player One by Ernest Cline has a special place for me. I played Dungeons and Dragons (I was even dungeon master for a Tomb of Horrors campaign) I played coin operated video games, I obviously dig science fiction and comics, I listened to Rush, REM and Van Halen, etc. etc. And for my Goodreads friends who enjoy my trivia questions, I went all out for my Ready Player One chapter; after all, 80s trivia was a big part of the book and so what better tribute could I pay than to level up with a treasure load of trivia questions? Cline invites us, especially those of us who were teenagers in the 80s, to geek out and it is a fun experience. Like Among Others , Jo Walton\u2019s Hugo award winning novel, part of the charm of this book is the fun nostalgia, but Cline takes it to another level as the 80s trivia is an integral part of the plot; a near hopeless post cyber-punk (gamer punk?) dystopia with excellent characterization and with a very likeable cast. More than this even, Cline makes an intelligent, humanistic observation about where our world is now and where it is heading with the loneliness and isolation that comes when the cyber-world is more interesting, and more vital, than the real world. Yet Cline also makes a statement about the resiliency, tenacity and perseverance of the human sprit by demonstrating that even if the only connection two people can make is on a purely artificial and mental level, as in two people who only know each other as online avatars that genuine fellowship can still occur, that even love can bloom. One of the greatest compliments that can be paid to a book is to say you could not put it down, that\u2019s how it was with Ready Player One, a very, very good read. I am stingy with my Goodreads 5 star votes, this one had my vote about a third of the way in. ...more Don't hate me... please . But I'm pretty sure I didn't like this one as much as most of my friends. I'm guessing the 80's were super rad n' all to a lot of people, but I don't remember them being all that amazing. Granted, I was only 10 in 1985, but still ... I passed my middle school years during this tubular time period. Ick. Most of what I recall involved a mushroom cloud of hairspray (centered around bangs), lots of plastic bracelets, and tons of really loud colors. Not that there's anything wrong w Don't hate me... please . But I'm pretty sure I didn't like this one as much as most of my friends. I'm guessing the 80's were super rad n' all to a lot of people, but I don't remember them being all that amazing. Granted, I was only 10 in 1985, but still ... I passed my middle school years during this tubular time period. Ick. Most of what I recall involved a mushroom cloud of hairspray (centered around bangs), lots of plastic bracelets, and tons of really loud colors. Not that there's anything wrong with that! Anyway. All of this nostalgia is really wonderful, but I never liked the shows (like Family Ties) that the book mentioned, I didn't obsessively play any of the old video games (although I do remember playing Centipede occasionally with my ONLY friend who could afford a console), and the music ...*cough*...well, it wasn't any better than the stuff on the radio right now. So. While I found some of the references kinda neat-o, that sort of thing wasn't enough to make me flail around and get all excited. And, unfortunately, there wasn't enough meat to the characters to make me wanna cheer for Wade, Art3mis, or Aech. I mean, what the fuck was the point of the story? Wait. Is this a series? Is there another book that tells what happens next? If so, that could change my entire opinion! Well, not really. But I'd at least be willing to give book 2 a shot... ...more I had the feeling while reading this book that it was written expressly for me. This is my childhood captured. And since it was an insular and introverted childhood, it felt unique. It wasn't connected with Facebook. I had no idea that I was legion. And so I imagine many other readers felt the same sensation of having a book speak directly to their most private memories and moments. And what could be more cherished than that? It was like having a videogame written for you. Or being able to be ca I had the feeling while reading this book that it was written expressly for me. This is my childhood captured. And since it was an insular and introverted childhood, it felt unique. It wasn't connected with Facebook. I had no idea that I was legion. And so I imagine many other readers felt the same sensation of having a book speak directly to their most private memories and moments. And what could be more cherished than that? It was like having a videogame written for you. Or being able to be cast in your favorite film, playing the part of the star. A book I'll likely read every three or four years, which I only do for two other works: Ender's Game and Battlefield Earth. ...more it's like Ernest Cline decided to do something really nice for me, something really personal, and so he got together some of my favorite things - sympathetic yet highly flawed protagonist, diversity in race and sexual orientation, down-with-the-man anti-corporate sentiments, an absorbing dystopia, a breezy narrative - and then he put it all in the context of the decade where I formed my interests and essentially became myself. well he also put in a bunch of video games and I've never been a gam it's like Ernest Cline decided to do something really nice for me, something really personal, and so he got together some of my favorite things - sympathetic yet highly flawed protagonist, diversity in race and sexual orientation, down-with-the-man anti-corporate sentiments, an absorbing dystopia, a breezy narrative - and then he put it all in the context of the decade where I formed my interests and essentially became myself. well he also put in a bunch of video games and I've never been a gamer - but I've been around enough of them that I get the gist, you know? anyway, this novel had me smiling from beginning to end. it made me genuinely happy. when I finished it up I felt like I had made a new friend, someone who really understood me and who liked me right off the bat. what a great feeling! ...more Ready Player One is about a futuristic, catastrophic earth, and the only bit of happiness that the human species can have is to escape. Fly off to a different planet that has a life source? No, but elude reality. Escape into a virtual video game called OASIS. After the OASIS creator dies, life on OASIS changes everyone. The last will and testament of James Halliday, the creator, is to have a contest of the ages to gain his power and fortune. The main character Wade Watts devotes his life to win Ready Player One is about a futuristic, catastrophic earth, and the only bit of happiness that the human species can have is to escape. Fly off to a different planet that has a life source? No, but elude reality. Escape into a virtual video game called OASIS. After the OASIS creator dies, life on OASIS changes everyone. The last will and testament of James Halliday, the creator, is to have a contest of the ages to gain his power and fortune. The main character Wade Watts devotes his life to win the contest. Will he win the contest, or will the enemies reign supreme? First off, Ernest Cline's world felt eerily real. All that happened to the Earth are real time problems that we are facing today, and need to be solved soon. It made me feel conscience of what I am doing, and to make my little sacrifice to help mother earth live as long as possible. The other thing is how much we are involved with technology. Many of us are attached to our screens. Even preschoolers play on tablets, and other devices to pass the time. I let my daughter play ABC mouse, which is an educational program. I limit her time, but she will be using a ton of systems when she enters school. I remember my sister coming home with a laptop in middle school, and my husband's younger brother coming home with a tablet. Technology is great, but I feel like the virtual world is where we are headed at some point of time. Most of us will be leaving reality to go into a virtual world. Secondly, I sang a lot to myself during this book. If I sing to myself it usually brings up a good memory, or I am making fun of a scene. The novel brought up some good memories. During the first few pages I was singing Willy Wonka. \"I got a golden ticket!\" or \"If you want to view paradise.\" I love Willy Wonka. I love Gene Wilder. Ready Player One reminds me of Willy Wonka, and that made me happy. Some of the music that was mentioned popped in my head a few times. Wham! come on! Dudes, I can jam out to some Wham!. \"Wake me up before you go-go.\" *Dancing* Alright, Alex stop dancing. The last thing that made me happy was the remembrance of my video game days. Those were some good times. I use to grab a bag of chips, and play on my system all night. We had some good times, and of course some bad times, but overall fun. I use to play WOW, and Everquest. They were so much fun. I love the Playstation system. Gosh, I loved Final Fantasy, and Dynasty Warriors. Don't make fun of me, those were some great games. I want to play FF, but my husband sold the PS3 to get the new Xbox. UGH! FF! HOW I MISS YOU! I was very sad. The last game I played was Red Dead Redemption, which was a western video game. It was so much fun. I miss it, and this week I ate a lot of junk food while reading. Thirdly, I liked how Ernest wrote the secondary characters. That is all I am going to say about them, because they are wonderful. The story was exciting, and I was trying to solve the puzzles. I was horrible too. I wouldn't have won. haha. I would whoop some ass at trivia about the movie Forrest Gump . I do want to try out some games, like Dungeons and Dragons. Surprisingly, I started thinking me reading books, and my husband playing WOW, downstairs in the basement, are basically the same thing. We are both escaping reality. I might think my time alone is a little bit more educational, but his virtual world is using different functions of the brain. One of those epiphanies that I had while reading that I found sort of interesting. It made me ponder how many times I escaped to a different world to avoid this one. Maybe, I should face it more often, look at the sunrises, and sunsets. You know \"One more day, one more time. One more sunset baby I'll be satisfied.\" I don't read all day. I have a two year old, but who knows what I am missing out there. I still have a life to live, and I think that was the message of the book. Avoiding reality is great at times, but there are miraculous things to be seen. Our lives are what we make of them. It is something to ponder about. Happy reading! Read my blog at www.dancingbetweenthecovers.com ...more Ready Player One is one of those books that I'll be recommending to people for a long, long time. If you love geeky media... books, videos, TV shows, music (and especially if it's from the 80s) this book will be a favorite of yours as well. The characters are engaging, the descriptions of the scenes inside OASIS are vivid, and it's fun (and thrilling) at the same time. Does the 80s trivia come on a little thick? Yes, but that's kind of the point (and the plot). \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u062c\u0646\u0648\u0646\u0629 \u0645\u062b\u064a\u0631\u0629 \u0633\u0631\u064a\u0639\u0629\u060c \u062c\u0630\u0628\u062a\u0646\u064a \u0643\u0645\u0627 \u0644\u0645 \u062a\u0641\u0639\u0644 \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u062e\u064a\u0627\u0644 \u0639\u0644\u0645\u064a \u0623\u062e\u0631\u064a \u0633\u062a\u062c\u062f \u0646\u0641\u0633\u0643 \u0628\u062f\u064a\u0633\u062a\u0648\u0628\u064a\u0627 \u0645\u0633\u062a\u0642\u0628\u0644\u064a\u0629\u060c \u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0624\u0633\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0632\u064a\u0646 \u0628\u062d\u0642 \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0646\u0639\u064a\u0634\u0647..\u0648\u062a\u0647\u0631\u0628 \u0645\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u064a \u064a\u0648\u062a\u0648\u0628\u064a\u0627 \u0625\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0636\u064a\u0629\u060c \u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u062a\u0631\u0648\u0646\u064a \u0645\u062d\u0627\u0643\u064a \u0644\u0644\u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639..\u0641\u064a\u0633\u0628\u0648\u0643 \u062b\u0644\u0627\u062b\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0628\u0639\u0627\u062f \"\u0642\u0644 \u0644\u064a \u0647\u0644 \u0633\u0645\u0639\u062a \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0647\u064a\u0643\u064a\u0643\u0648\u0645\u0648\u0631\u064a\u061f\u061f \u0627\u0644\u0645\u062a\u0642\u0648\u0642\u0639\u0648\u0646\u061f\" \u0641\u064a \u0644\u0639\u0628\u0629 \u0641\u064a\u062f\u064a\u0648 \u0645\u062c\u0646\u0648\u0646\u0629 \u0628\u0631\u0645\u062c\u0647\u0627 \u0645\u0624\u0644\u0641 \"\u063a\u0631\u064a\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0637\u0648\u0627\u0631\" \u0645\u0647\u0648\u0648\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062b\u0645\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0646\u0627\u062a..\u0623\u064a\u0631\u0646\u0633\u062a \u0643\u0644\u064a\u0646 \"\u0628\u0627\u0644\u0646\u0638\u0631 \u062d\u0648\u0644\u064a\u060c \u062a\u0639\u062c\u0628\u062a \u0644\u0650\u0645\u0651\u0627 \u0647\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062f\u0627\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0637\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0627 \u0623\u062f\u0639\u064a \u0623\u0646 \u0637\u0641\u0648\u0644\u062a\u0647 \u0628\u0627\u0626\u0633\u0629\u060c \u0635\u0627\u0631 \u064a\u0634\u0639\u0631 \u0628\u0643\u0644 \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0646\u064a\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u064a\u0647\u0627 \u0644\u0627\u062d\u0642\u0627. \u0623\u0639\u0644\u0645 \u0623\u0646\u0646\u064a \u062d\u064a\u0646 \u0627\u0647\u0631\u0628 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0648\u0645\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0639\u064a \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u062c\u0646\u0648\u0646\u0629 \u0645\u062b\u064a\u0631\u0629 \u0633\u0631\u064a\u0639\u0629\u060c \u062c\u0630\u0628\u062a\u0646\u064a \u0643\u0645\u0627 \u0644\u0645 \u062a\u0641\u0639\u0644 \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u062e\u064a\u0627\u0644 \u0639\u0644\u0645\u064a \u0623\u062e\u0631\u064a \u0633\u062a\u062c\u062f \u0646\u0641\u0633\u0643 \u0628\u062f\u064a\u0633\u062a\u0648\u0628\u064a\u0627 \u0645\u0633\u062a\u0642\u0628\u0644\u064a\u0629\u060c \u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0624\u0633\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0632\u064a\u0646 \u0628\u062d\u0642 \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0646\u0639\u064a\u0634\u0647..\u0648\u062a\u0647\u0631\u0628 \u0645\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u064a \u064a\u0648\u062a\u0648\u0628\u064a\u0627 \u0625\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0636\u064a\u0629\u060c \u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u062a\u0631\u0648\u0646\u064a \u0645\u062d\u0627\u0643\u064a \u0644\u0644\u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639..\u0641\u064a\u0633\u0628\u0648\u0643 \u062b\u0644\u0627\u062b\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0628\u0639\u0627\u062f \"\u0642\u0644 \u0644\u064a \u0647\u0644 \u0633\u0645\u0639\u062a \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0647\u064a\u0643\u064a\u0643\u0648\u0645\u0648\u0631\u064a\u061f\u061f \u0627\u0644\u0645\u062a\u0642\u0648\u0642\u0639\u0648\u0646\u061f\" \u0641\u064a \u0644\u0639\u0628\u0629 \u0641\u064a\u062f\u064a\u0648 \u0645\u062c\u0646\u0648\u0646\u0629 \u0628\u0631\u0645\u062c\u0647\u0627 \u0645\u0624\u0644\u0641 \"\u063a\u0631\u064a\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0637\u0648\u0627\u0631\" \u0645\u0647\u0648\u0648\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062b\u0645\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0646\u0627\u062a..\u0623\u064a\u0631\u0646\u0633\u062a \u0643\u0644\u064a\u0646 \"\u0628\u0627\u0644\u0646\u0638\u0631 \u062d\u0648\u0644\u064a\u060c \u062a\u0639\u062c\u0628\u062a \u0644\u0650\u0645\u0651\u0627 \u0647\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062f\u0627\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0637\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0627 \u0623\u062f\u0639\u064a \u0623\u0646 \u0637\u0641\u0648\u0644\u062a\u0647 \u0628\u0627\u0626\u0633\u0629\u060c \u0635\u0627\u0631 \u064a\u0634\u0639\u0631 \u0628\u0643\u0644 \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0646\u064a\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u064a\u0647\u0627 \u0644\u0627\u062d\u0642\u0627. \u0623\u0639\u0644\u0645 \u0623\u0646\u0646\u064a \u062d\u064a\u0646 \u0627\u0647\u0631\u0628 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0648\u0645\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0639\u064a\u0634 \u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u062e\u064a\u0631\u0627\u060c \u0644\u0646 \u0623\u0646\u0638\u0631 \u0644\u0644\u062e\u0644\u0641 \u0623\u0628\u062f\u0627 \u0648\u0628\u0627\u0644\u062a\u0623\u0643\u064a\u062f \u0644\u0646 \u0627\u0628\u062a\u0643\u0631 \u0645\u062d\u0627\u0643\u0627\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u062a\u0631\u0648\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u0641\u0635\u0644\u0651\u0629 \u0644\u0647\u0627\" \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646\u0646\u0627 \u062c\u0645\u064a\u0639\u0627 \u0646\u062d\u0651\u0646 \u0644\u0647\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u064a\u0627\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0637\u0641\u0648\u0644\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u062d\u0648\u0644 \u0644\u0644\u0628\u0644\u0648\u063a \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0631\u0634\u062f...\u0646\u0634\u0639\u0631 \u0628\u062d\u0646\u064a\u0646 \u063a\u0627\u0645\u0636 \u0644\u0643\u0644 \u0647\u0630\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u064a\u0627\u0645\u060c\u0645\u0647\u0645\u0627 \u0643\u0627\u0646\u062a \u0642\u0627\u0633\u064a\u0629\u060c \u0648\u0646\u0633\u0639\u062f \u0628\u0643\u0644 \u0645\u0627 \u064a\u0630\u0643\u0631\u0646\u0627 \u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u0647\u064a \u062d\u0627\u0644\u0629 \u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645\u064a\u0629 \"\u0647\u0644 \u0633\u0645\u0639\u062a \u0639\u0646 \u0646\u0648\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062c\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0645\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0646\u0627\u062a\u061f\" \u0648\u062a\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629\u060c \u0627\u0648 \u0644\u0639\u0628\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u064a\u062f\u064a\u0648\u062c\u064a\u0645 \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0648\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062c\u0627\u060c \u0648\u0639\u0647\u062f \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0645\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0646\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0645\u064a\u0644\u060c \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0635\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0630\u0647\u0628\u064a \u0644\u0644\u0643\u0627\u0631\u062a\u0648\u0646 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u064a\u062f\u064a\u0648 \u0648\u062a\u0637\u0648\u0631\u0647\u0627\u060c \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0643\u0627\u0646 \u062c\u0646\u0628\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u064a \u062c\u0646\u0628 \u0645\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u062e\u064a\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0644\u0627 \u062a\u062d\u062a\u0627\u062c \u0627\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0643\u062a\u0631\u0648\u0646\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0643\u0623\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0631\u062f \u0648\u0647\u064a \u0627\u064a\u0636\u0627 \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0642\u0648\u0642\u0639 \u062f\u0627\u062e\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0648\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0636\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0644\u0643\u062a\u0631\u0648\u0646\u064a\u0629 - \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0636 \u0627\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0644\u0644\u062a\u0648\u0627\u0635\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u062c\u062a\u0645\u0627\u0639\u064a\u060c- \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0632\u0644\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062c\u062a\u0645\u0627\u0639\u064a\u0629\u060c \u0627\u0644\u0647\u064a\u0643\u064a\u0643\u0648\u0645\u0648\u0631\u064a \u0648\u0647\u064a \u0627\u064a\u0636\u0627 \u0631\u0628\u0645\u0627 \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0632\u0645\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0637\u0627\u0642\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0627\u062d\u062a\u0628\u0627\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0627\u0631\u064a\u060c \u0627\u0644\u0634\u0631\u0643\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0623\u0633\u0645\u0627\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0634\u0639\u0629\u060c \u0639\u0646 \u0625\u0646\u062a\u0634\u0627\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u0642\u0631...\u0627\u0644\u0644\u0627\u0645\u0628\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0629 \u0648\u063a\u064a\u0631\u0647\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0648\u0636\u0648\u0639\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0645\u062d\u0628\u0628\u0629 \u0644\u0644\u0646\u0641\u0633 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0643\u0623\u064a \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u062a\u062d\u062a\u0631\u0645 \u0646\u0641\u0633\u0647\u0627 \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0635\u062f\u0627\u0642\u0629\u060c \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0628\u060c \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062c\u0627\u0639\u0629\u060c \u062a\u0642\u0628\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062e\u0631...\u0641\u064a \u0625\u0637\u0627\u0631 \u0645\u062a\u0633\u0627\u0631\u0639 \u0648\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0645\u0631\u0633\u0648\u0645 \u0628\u0625\u062a\u0642\u0627\u0646 \u0634\u062f\u064a\u062f \u0648\u062d\u0628\u0643\u0629 \u0645\u0630\u0647\u0644\u0629 \u0641\u0639\u0644\u0627 \u062c\u0630\u0628\u062a\u0646\u064a \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u062c\u0647\u0646\u0645\u064a \u0647\u0644 \u0642\u0644\u062a \u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0648\u0644 \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u064a\u0643\u062a\u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0624\u0644\u0641\u061f \u0631\u0633\u0645 \u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u062a\u0643\u0627\u0645\u0644\u060c \u0628\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0627\u0646 \u0628\u062a\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629\u060c \u0627\u0644\u062f\u064a\u0633\u062a\u0648\u0628\u064a\u0627 \u0648 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0636\u064a\u060c \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0645\u062a\u0642\u0646\u060c \u062c\u0647\u0646\u0645\u064a \u0648\u0628\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639\u064a\u0629 \u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0645\u0631\u0633\u0648\u0645 \u0628\u062d\u0631\u0641\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u062f\u0642\u0629 \u0643\u0623\u0646\u0647 \u064a\u062e\u0637\u0637 \u0644\u0633\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0629 \u0643\u0627\u0645\u0644\u0629\u060c \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0642\u0635\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0629 \u0645\u062b\u064a\u0631\u0629 \u0633\u0631\u064a\u0639\u0629\u060c \u0644\u0627 \u062a\u062d\u062a\u0627\u062c \u0627\u062c\u0632\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u062e\u0631\u064a \u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0643\u062a\u0628\u0647 \u0645\u0647\u0648\u0648\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0643\u0645\u0628\u064a\u0648\u062a\u0631 Nerd, Geek \u0627\u0630\u0627 \u0623\u0631\u062f\u062a \u0627\u0646 \u062a\u0648\u0635\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0633\u062a\u0645\u062a\u0627\u0639 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0644\u0623\u0642\u0635\u0649 '\u0645\u0633\u062a\u0648\u064a' \u0644\u0647\u0627 \u062d\u0644 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u062b\u0646\u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0648\u0644\u0627 \u0627\u0646 \u062a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0645\u0645\u0646 \u0642\u0636\u064a \u062c\u0632\u0621\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0637\u0641\u0648\u0644\u062a\u0647 \u0648\u0645\u0631\u0627\u0647\u0642\u062a\u0647 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u062b\u0645\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0646\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0648 \u062b\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0627 \u062a\u0641\u062a\u062d \u062c\u0648\u062c\u0644 \u0648\u062a\u0628\u062d\u062b \u0639\u0646 \u0635\u0648\u0631 \u0648\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0623\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u064a\u062f\u064a\u0648\u060c \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0641\u0644\u0627\u0645\u060c \u0627\u063a\u0644\u0641\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0644\u0628\u0648\u0645\u0627\u062a \u0648\u0643\u062a\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u062e\u064a\u0627\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0644\u0645\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u064a\u062a\u0645 \u0630\u0643\u0631\u0647\u0627 \u062e\u0644\u0627\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0646\u0639\u0645\u060c \u0643\u0645\u0627 \u0643\u0646\u062a \u0623\u0628\u062f\u0623 \u0641\u064a \u0645\u0642\u062f\u0645\u0629 \u0631\u064a\u0641\u064a\u0648\u0647\u0627\u062a \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0627\u062a \u062f\u0627\u0646 \u0628\u0631\u0627\u0648\u0646\u060c \u062d\u0633\u0646\u0627\u060c \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0639\u0628\u0642\u0631\u064a \u0627\u062e\u0631 \u062d\u0633\u0646\u0627\u060c \u064a\u0645\u0643\u0646\u0643 \u0623\u0646 \u062a\u0643\u062a\u0641\u064a \u0628\u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u062f \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0631\u064a\u0641\u064a\u0648 \u0627\u0648 \u0644\u0648 \u0643\u0646\u062a \u062a\u0631\u064a\u062f \u0634\u064a\u0626\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0631\u0633\u0627\u0644\u061f \u0628\u0631\u062c\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0636\u063a\u0637 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0632\u0631 Player One.. \u0648\u0644\u062a\u0628\u062f\u0623 \u0644\u0639\u0628\u062a\u0643 \u0645\u0639 Ready Player One.. --------------------------- **** \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0635\u0629 **** \u201c\u0647\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062f\u0627\u064a \u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0645\u0639\u0631\u0648\u0641\u0627 \u0628\u0647\u0648\u0648\u0633\u0647. \u0627\u0647\u0645 \u0645\u0627 \u0647\u0648 \u0645\u0647\u0648\u0648\u0633 \u0628\u0647 \u0623\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u064a\u062f\u064a\u0648 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0644\u0627\u0633\u064a\u0643\u064a\u0629\u060c \u0623\u0641\u0644\u0627\u0645 \u0648\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u062e\u064a\u0627\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0644\u0645\u064a\u060c \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0623\u0641\u0644\u0627\u0645 \u0628\u0643\u0644 \u0623\u0646\u0648\u0627\u0639\u0647\u0627. \u0648\u0623\u064a\u0636\u0627 \u064a\u0631\u0643\u0632 \u0627\u0647\u062a\u0645\u0627\u0645\u0647 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u062b\u0645\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0646\u0627\u062a\u060c \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0642\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0628\u0647 \u0645\u0631\u0627\u0647\u0642\u0627. \u0647\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062f\u0627\u064a \u0643\u0627\u0646 \u064a\u062a\u0648\u0642\u0639 \u0645\u0646 \u0643\u0644 \u0641\u0631\u062f \u062d\u0648\u0644\u0647 \u0623\u0646 \u064a\u0634\u0627\u0631\u0643\u0647 \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0647\u0648\u0633\" \u0648\u0644\u0630\u0644\u0643 \u0639\u0646\u062f \u0648\u0641\u0627\u062a\u0647 \u062a\u0631\u0643 \u0643\u0644 \u0623\u0645\u0648\u0627\u0644\u0647 \u0648\u062d\u0642\u0648\u0642 \u0634\u0631\u0643\u062a\u0647\u060c \u0627\u0636\u062e\u0645 \u0634\u0631\u0643\u0629 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0641\u064a 2040 \u0644\u0645\u0646 \u064a\u0633\u062a\u0637\u064a\u0639 \u062d\u0644 \u0644\u063a\u0632 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0636\u062e\u0645 \u0623\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u064a\u062f\u064a\u0648 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0641\u0627\u0639\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u064a\u0645\u0643\u0646\u0643 \u0627\u0646 \u062a\u062a\u0635\u0648\u0631\u0647\u0627...\u064a\u0628\u062d\u062b \u0639\u0646 \u062b\u0644\u0627\u062b \u0645\u0641\u0627\u062a\u064a\u062d \u0644\u062b\u0644\u0627\u062b \u0628\u0648\u0627\u0628\u0627\u062a \u0644\u064a\u062c\u062f \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0627\u0626\u0632\u0629 \"\u0628\u064a\u0636\u0629 \u0639\u064a\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0635\u0641\u062d\" \u0627\u0644\u0645\u062e\u0641\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0644\u063a\u0629 \u0623\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0645\u0628\u064a\u0648\u062a\u0631 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0641\u064a\u062f\u064a\u0648 \u0648\u0644\u064a\u0646\u062c\u062d \u0641\u064a \u0630\u0644\u0643 \u064a\u062c\u0628 \u0627\u0646 \u064a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0645\u062b\u0644\u0647 \u0645\u0647\u0648\u0648\u0633\u0627 \u0628\u0646\u0641\u0633 \u0647\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0647\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062f\u0627\u064a...\u0627\u0644\u062b\u0645\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0646\u0627\u062a \u0648\u0627\u0641\u0644\u0627\u0645\u0647\u0627\u060c\u0627\u063a\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0627\u062a\u0647\u0627..\u0648\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0647\u0645\u060c \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0628\u0637\u0644\u0646\u0627\u060c \u0648\u0627\u064a\u062f \u0648\u0627\u062a\u0633\u060c \u0645\u0631\u0627\u0647\u0642 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u0626\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0645\u0629 \u0644\u0644\u0634\u0639\u0628\u060c \u0645\u0633\u062a\u0648\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0641\u0642\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0637\u0628\u064a\u0639\u064a..\u0635\u0627\u0631 \u0627\u062d\u062f \u0645\u0647\u0627\u0648\u0648\u064a\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0645\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0646\u0627\u062a \u0643\u0645\u0644\u0627\u064a\u064a\u0646 \u0633\u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0628\u0633\u0628\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u062d\u062b \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0627\u0626\u0632\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062e\u0641\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0644\u062e\u0645\u0633 \u0633\u0646\u0648\u0627\u062a \u0644\u0645 \u064a\u0646\u062c\u062d \u0623\u062d\u062f \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0639\u062b\u0648\u0631 \u062d\u062a\u064a \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0641\u062a\u0627\u062d \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0648\u0644 \u0643\u0644 \u0645\u0627 \u064a\u062a\u0645\u0646\u0627\u0647 \u0648\u0627\u064a\u062f \u0627\u0646 \u064a\u0639\u062b\u0631 \u0647\u0648 \u0627\u0648 \u0627\u064a \u0641\u0631\u062f \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0627\u0626\u0632\u0629 \u0642\u0628\u0644 \u0627\u0646 \u064a\u062c\u062f\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u062d\u062f \u0645\u0648\u0638\u0641\u064a \u0634\u0631\u0643\u0629 \u0627\u0646\u062a\u0631\u0646\u062a \u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645\u064a\u0629 \u0643\u0628\u0631\u064a IOI \u0627\u064a \u0627\u0648 \u0627\u064a \u062a\u0633\u0639\u064a \u0628\u0643\u0644 \u0637\u0627\u0642\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u062b\u0648\u0631 \u0639\u0644\u064a\u0647\u0627 \u0644\u0644\u0627\u0633\u062a\u062d\u0648\u0627\u0630 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0634\u0631\u0643\u0629 \u0647\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062f\u0627\u064a \u0648\u0636\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0636\u064a \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0644\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0644\u0645\u0627\u0630\u0627 \u062a\u0633\u0639\u064a \u0634\u0631\u0643\u0629 \u0627\u062a\u0635\u0627\u0644\u0627\u062a \u0643\u0628\u0631\u064a \u0644\u0641\u0648\u0632 \u0644\u0639\u0628\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u064a\u062f\u064a\u0648 \u062a\u0644\u0643\u061f \u0628\u0644 \u0648\u0644\u0645\u0627\u0630\u0627 \u0642\u062f \u062a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0634\u0631\u0643\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0641\u064a\u062f\u064a\u0648 \u0647\u064a \u0627\u0647\u0645 \u0634\u0631\u0643\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0641\u064a 2040\u061f \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u064a\u0623\u062a\u064a \u062f\u0648\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0624\u0644\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0628\u0642\u0631\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0631\u0633\u0645 \u0630\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0628\u0625\u062a\u0642\u0627\u0646 \u0645\u0647\u0648\u0648\u0633 ------------------ **** \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 **** \u0631\u0633\u0645 \u0625\u0631\u0646\u0633\u062a \u0644\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u064a \u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0643\u0627\u0628\u0648\u0633\u064a\u0627 \u062c\u062f\u0627\u060c \u062f\u064a\u0633\u062a\u0648\u0628\u064a\u0627 \u0645\u0642\u0628\u0636\u0629 \u0644\u0633\u0628\u0628 \u062e\u0637\u064a\u0631... \u0641\u0647\u0648 \u0644\u0645 \u064a\u0628\u062a\u0643\u0631 \u063a\u0632\u0648 \u0641\u0636\u0627\u0626\u064a\u060c \u0627\u0648 \u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0646\u0648\u0648\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u0627\u060c \u0627\u0648 \u0646\u064a\u0632\u0643\u060c \u0627\u0648 \u0627\u064a\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0625\u0631\u0647\u0627\u0635\u0627\u062a \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u062e\u064a\u0627\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0644\u0645\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0639\u062a\u0627\u062f\u0629 \u0628\u0644 \u0645\u062c\u0631\u062f \u0631\u0633\u0645 \u0644\u0645\u0627 \u0645\u0627 \u0642\u062f \u064a\u062d\u062f\u062b \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0634\u0631\u064a\u0646 \u0639\u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0642\u0628\u0644\u064a\u0646 \u0627\u0630\u0627 \u0645\u0627 \u0628\u0642\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0627\u0644 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0645\u0627\u0647\u0648 \u0639\u0644\u064a\u0647 \u0641\u064a \u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0646\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0628\u064a\u0628 \u0645\u0646 \u0633\u0648\u0621 \u0627\u0633\u062a\u062e\u062f\u0627\u0645 \u0644\u0644\u0628\u064a\u0626\u0629\u060c \u0627\u0647\u062f\u0627\u0631 \u0644\u0645\u0635\u0627\u062f\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0637\u0627\u0642\u0629\u060c \u0627\u0644\u0644\u0627\u0645\u0628\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0629 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0641\u0642\u0631 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062c\u0648\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u064a\u0644\u062a\u0647\u0645 \u0628\u0639\u0636 \u062f\u0648\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645\u060c \u0625\u062f\u0645\u0627\u0646 \u0645\u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0648\u0627\u0635\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062c\u062a\u0645\u0627\u0639\u064a \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u062a\u0633\u0628\u0628\u062a \u0628\u0639\u0636 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u0626 \u0641\u064a \u0632\u064a\u0627\u062f\u0629 \u0641\u062c\u0648\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0648\u0627\u0635\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0634\u0631\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0637\u0628\u064a\u0639\u064a \u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062e\u0631 \u060c \u0627\u0644\u0648\u0627\u062d\u0629 '\u0627\u0648\u0627\u0633\u064a\u0633' \u0641\u0631\u0633\u0645 \u0625\u0631\u0646\u0633\u062a \u0644\u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u064a\u062c\u0639\u0644\u0643 \u062a\u062f\u0631\u0643 \u0645\u062f\u064a \u0647\u0648\u0633 \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u062c\u0644 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0644\u0643\u062a\u0631\u0648\u0646\u064a \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0623\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0646\u0633\u0628\u0629 \u0644\u064a \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0631\u063a\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0646\u064a \u0644\u0633\u062a \u0645\u062d\u062a\u0631\u0641\u0627 \u0644\u0644\u0623\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0644\u0643\u062a\u0631\u0648\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0644\u0627 \u062a\u0633\u062a\u0647\u0648\u064a\u0646\u064a \u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631\u0627\u060c \u0625\u0644\u0627 \u0623\u0646\u0646\u064a \u0645\u0646\u0630 \u0635\u063a\u0631\u064a \u0648\u0628\u0627\u0644\u062a\u0623\u0643\u064a\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631 \u0645\u0646\u0627 \u062a\u0633\u062a\u0647\u0648\u064a\u0647 \u0627\u0643\u062a\u0634\u0627\u0641 \u062d\u062c\u0631\u0629 \u0633\u0631\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0644\u0639\u0628\u062a\u0647\u060c \u0645\u0631\u062d\u0644\u0629 \u0644\u0645 \u064a\u0635\u0644\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u062d\u062f...\u0633\u0631 \u062e\u0641\u064a \u0643\u0633\u0644\u0627\u062d \u0627\u0648 \u0642\u062f\u0631\u0629 \u0627\u0648 \u0645\u0641\u062a\u0627\u062d \u064a\u0642\u0648\u062f\u0643 \u0644\u0645\u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0622\u062e\u0631 \u0627\u0648 \u0643\u0645\u0627 \u064a\u0637\u0644\u0642 \u0639\u0644\u064a\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u063a\u0631\u0628 \"\u0628\u064a\u0636\u0629 \u0639\u064a\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0641\u0635\u062d \u0627\u0644\u0645\u062e\u0641\u064a\u0629\" \u060c \u0648\u0647\u064a \u0623\u062d\u062c\u064a\u0629 \u0644\u064a\u0633\u062a \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0623\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0641\u062d\u0633\u0628 \u0644\u0642\u062f \u0627\u0633\u062a\u062e\u062f\u0645 \u062f\u0627\u0646 \u0628\u0631\u0627\u0648\u0646 \u063a\u0644\u0627\u0641 \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u062a\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0634\u0647\u0631 \u0634\u0641\u0631\u0629 \u062f\u0627\u0641\u0646\u0634\u064a \u0644\u0627\u062e\u0641\u0627\u0621 \u0633\u0631\u0627 \u0645\u0627\u060c \u0643\u0630\u0644\u0643 \u062a\u0641\u0639\u0644 \u0628\u0639\u0636 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0641\u0644\u0627\u0645 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u064a\u0643\u062a\u0634\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0634\u0627\u0647\u062f\u0648\u0646 \u0645\u0634\u0647\u062f\u0627 \u0645\u062e\u0641\u064a\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0627\u0626\u0645\u0629 \u0645\u0646 \u062e\u0644\u0627\u0644 \u0623\u0642\u0631\u0627\u0635 \u062a\u0634\u063a\u064a\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0641\u0644\u0627\u0645 \u062f\u064a \u0641\u064a \u062f\u064a \u062d\u0633\u0646\u0627\u060c \u0625\u0631\u0646\u0633\u062a \u0645\u0647\u0648\u0648\u0633\u0627 \u0628\u0643\u0644 \u0647\u0630\u0627\u060c \u0645\u0647\u0648\u0648\u0633\u0627 \u0628\u0628\u0646\u0627\u0621 \u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0636\u064a \u0636\u062e\u0645 \u0645\u062a\u0643\u0627\u0645\u0644 \u0628\u0647 \u0643\u0644 \u0645\u0627 \u0627\u062e\u062a\u0631\u0639\u0647 \u0639\u0642\u0644 \u0623\u062f\u064a\u0628 \u0648\u0645\u0624\u0644\u0641 \u0641\u064a \u0631\u0633\u0645 \u0639\u0648\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u062e\u064a\u0627\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u0643\u0647\u0648\u062c\u0648\u0627\u0631\u062a\u0633\u060c \u0646\u0627\u0631\u0646\u064a\u0627\u060c \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0631\u0636 \u0627\u0644\u0648\u0633\u0637\u064a \u0644\u062a\u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646\u060c\u0645\u062c\u0631\u0629 \u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u062c\u0648\u0645\u060c \u0648\u063a\u064a\u0631\u0647\u0627\u060c \u0644\u064a\u0636\u0639\u0647\u0627 \u0628\u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0636\u064a \u0628\u0646\u0641\u0633 \u0634\u0643\u0644\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u062a\u0641\u0627\u0635\u064a\u0644\u0647\u0627 OASIS Ontologically Anthropocentric Sensory Immersive Simulation. \u0647\u0648 \u0628\u0631\u0646\u0627\u0645\u062c \u0645\u062d\u0627\u0643\u0627\u0629 \u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645\u064a\u060c \u062d\u062a\u064a \u0644\u0648 \u0644\u0645 \u062a\u0643\u0646 \u0645\u062d\u062a\u0631\u0641 \u0623\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0645\u062b\u0644\u064a \u0641\u0627\u0646\u062a \u0628\u0627\u0644\u062a\u0623\u0643\u064a\u062f \u0633\u0645\u0639\u062a \u0639\u0646 Silkroad \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u062a\u0639\u062f \u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0627 \u064a\u062f\u062e\u0644\u0647 \u0645\u0626\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0641 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0644\u064a\u062a\u062c\u0648\u0644\u0648\u0627 \u0628\u062e\u0631\u064a\u0637\u0629 \u0630\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0636\u064a \u0644\u0645\u0635\u0627\u0631\u0639\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0648\u062d\u0648\u0634 \u0623\u0648 \u0646\u0632\u0627\u0644 \u0628\u0639\u0636\u0647\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0639\u0636\u060c \u0627\u0648 \u0639\u0642\u062f \u062a\u062d\u0627\u0644\u0641\u0627\u062a \u0648\u062a\u0628\u0627\u062f\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0633\u0644\u062d\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0647\u062f\u0627\u064a\u0627 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062f\u0631\u062f\u0634\u0629 \u0642\u062f \u062a\u0628\u062f\u0648 \"\u0627\u0648\u0627\u0633\u064a\u0633\" (\u0627\u0648 \u0627\u0630\u0627 \u0645\u0627 \u0642\u0631\u0623\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0643\u0643\u0644\u0645\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0629 \u0641\u0645\u0639\u0646\u0627\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0648\u0627\u062d\u0629\u060c \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0633\u062a\u062e\u062f\u0627\u0645 \u0645\u0648\u0641\u0642 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0624\u0644\u0641) \u0627\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0645\u062c\u0631\u062f \u0644\u0639\u0628\u0629 \u060c \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0628\u0625\u0633\u062a\u062e\u062f\u0627\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0643\u0646\u0648\u0644\u0648\u062c\u064a\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0639\u0644\u0648\u0645\u0627\u062a\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0644\u0643\u062a\u0631\u0648\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u064a 2040 \u0635\u0627\u0631\u062a \u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0628\u062f\u064a\u0644 \u0645\u062a\u0643\u0627\u0645\u0644\u060c \u064a\u0645\u0643\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0637\u0641\u0627\u0644 \u0641\u064a \u062c\u0645\u064a\u0639 \u0627\u0646\u062d\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u062f\u0631\u0627\u0633\u0629 \u0641\u064a\u0647 \u0641\u064a \u0645\u062f\u0627\u0631\u0633 \u0627\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0636\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u0646\u0630 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0631\u062d\u0644\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0628\u062a\u062f\u0627\u0626\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u062d\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0627\u0645\u0639\u064a\u0629\u060c \u0628\u0642\u0648\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0646 \u0635\u0627\u0631\u0645\u0629 \u0648\u0641\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0629 \u0627\u0643\u062b\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0646\u0638\u0627\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0639\u0644\u064a\u0645 \u0628\u0628\u0639\u0636 \u0627\u0644\u062f\u0648\u0644 -\u0643\u0646\u0638\u0627\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0639\u0644\u064a\u0645 \u0641\u064a \u0645\u0635\u0631 \u0645\u062b\u0644\u0627- \u0648\u0627\u064a\u0636\u0627 \u0628\u0647 \u0645\u0643\u062a\u0628\u0629 \u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0643\u0644 \u0645\u0627 \u0646\u0634\u0631 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0648\u062c\u0645\u064a\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0633\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0627\u062a \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0641\u0644\u0627\u0645 \u060c\u0627\u0644\u0628\u0631\u0627\u0645\u062c \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628\u060c \u0648\u0623\u0645\u0627\u0643\u0646 \u0644\u0644\u062a\u0639\u0627\u0631\u0641 \u0627\u0648 \u0627\u0645\u0627\u0643\u0646 \u0644\u0644\u062f\u0631\u062f\u0634\u0629 \u062a\u0641\u0627\u0639\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0636\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0627\u0639\u0644\u064a \u062a\u0642\u0646\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0631\u0627\u0641\u064a\u0643 \u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0641\u0631\u0635 \u0639\u0645\u0644 \u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0631\u0648\u0627\u062a\u0628.. \u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u064a\u0636\u0627 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0637\u0628\u0639 \u0623\u0645\u0627\u0643\u0646 \u0644\u0644\u0642\u062a\u0627\u0644 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0633\u0627\u0628\u0642\u0627\u062a \u0648 \u0648 \u0648 \u0648 \u064a\u0645\u0643\u0646\u0643 \u0642\u0636\u0627\u0621 \u0646\u0635\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0645\u062a\u0627\u0639 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u062a\u0641\u0627\u0635\u064a\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0628\u062a\u0643\u0631\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0624\u0644\u0641 \u0641\u064a \u0648\u0635\u0641\u0647 \u0644\u062a\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0648\u0627\u062d\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0636\u062e\u0645\u0629 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0647\u0648 \u062d\u064a\u062b \u064a\u0647\u0631\u0628 \u062c\u0645\u064a\u0639 \u0633\u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0627\u062f\u0631\u064a\u0646 \u0645\u0646\u0647\u0645 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0641\u0642\u0631\u0627\u0621 \u0645\u0646 \u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639\u0647\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0644\u064a\u0645...\u062a\u0641\u0634\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0641\u0642\u0631 \u0648\u0623\u0632\u0645\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0637\u0627\u0642\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0633\u062a\u0641\u062d\u0644\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u062e\u0644\u0627\u0644 \u062e\u0648\u0630\u0629 \u0648\u0642\u0641\u0627\u0632\u0627\u062a \u062a\u0641\u0627\u0639\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u062a\u062f\u0627\u0631 \u0628\u0643\u0647\u0631\u0628\u0627\u0621 \u0633\u0648\u0627\u0621 \u0645\u0648\u0644\u062f\u0629 \u0645\u0646 \u0644\u0648\u062d\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0637\u0627\u0642\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u0645\u0633\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0648 \u0639\u062c\u0644\u0627\u062a \u062a\u0648\u0644\u064a\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0647\u0631\u0628\u0627\u0621 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0643\u0629 \u0648\u062a\u0633\u062a\u062e\u062f\u0645 \u0634\u0628\u0643\u0629 \u0627\u0646\u062a\u0631\u0646\u062a \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0643\u062b\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0645\u0646\u0641\u0630 \u0633\u0648\u0627\u0621 \u062e\u0627\u0635 \u0628\u0634\u0631\u0643\u0629 \u0647\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062f\u0627\u064a \u0627\u0648 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u0631\u0643\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0646\u0627\u0641\u0633\u0629 '\u0627\u064a \u0627\u0648 \u0627\u064a' \u060c \u0641\u0645\u0646\u062a\u0634\u0631 \u0641\u064a \u0643\u0644 \u0645\u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0645\u0646\u0627\u0637\u0642 \u0627\u0646\u062a\u0631\u0646\u062a \u0644\u0627\u0633\u0644\u0643\u064a \u0643\u0644 \u0641\u0631\u062f \u064a\u0642\u0648\u0645 \u0628\u0623\u0642\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0644\u064a\u0644 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0647\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0634\u0631\u064a \u0645\u0646\u0630 \u0644\u062d\u0638\u0629 \u0627\u0633\u062a\u064a\u0642\u0627\u0638\u0647\u060c \u062d\u062a\u064a \u064a\u0631\u062a\u062f\u064a \u062e\u0648\u0630\u062a\u0647 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0639\u062f\u0627\u062a \u0644\u062f\u062e\u0648\u0644 \u0627\u0648\u0627\u0633\u064a\u0633 \u0644\u064a\u0633\u062a\u0643\u0645\u0644 \u064a\u0648\u0645\u0647 \u0628\u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u062a\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0636\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0636\u064a \u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0645\u062c\u0627\u0646\u064a \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0643\u0628\u064a\u0631\u060c \u0628\u0644\u0627 \u0631\u0633\u0648\u0645 \u0627\u0634\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0643 \u0644\u0627\u0648\u0644 \u0645\u0631\u0629 \u0648\u0644\u0627 \u0631\u0633\u0648\u0645 \u0634\u0647\u0631\u064a\u0629\u2026.\u062d\u062a\u064a \u0648\u0641\u0627\u0629 \u0647\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062f\u0627\u064a \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0623\u0646. . \u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0646 \u062a\u062a\u062e\u064a\u0644 \u0644\u0645\u0627\u0630\u0627 \u062a\u0631\u064a\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0634\u0631\u0643\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0623\u0633\u0645\u0627\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0627\u0628\u0642\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0630\u0643\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0635\u0648\u0644 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0627\u0626\u0632\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0633\u062a\u064a\u0644\u0627\u0621 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u062d\u0642\u0648\u0642 \u0634\u0631\u0643\u0629 \u0647\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062f\u0627\u064a\u060c \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0648\u0627\u062d\u0629\u060c \u0627\u0648\u0627\u0633\u064a\u0633 \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0633\u062a\u062c\u062f \u0646\u0641\u0633\u0643 \u0641\u0639\u0644\u0627 \u062a\u062a\u0641\u0627\u0639\u0644 \u0645\u0639 \u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0637\u0644\u060c \u0648\u0627\u064a\u062f \u0648\u0627\u062a\u0633\u060c \u0648\u0628\u0627\u0642\u064a \u0645\u0646\u0627\u0641\u0633\u064a\u0647 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0648\u0623\u0635\u062f\u0642\u0627\u0626\u0647 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0635\u0648\u0644 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0628\u064a\u0636\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062e\u0641\u064a\u0629 \u0642\u0628\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u0631\u0643\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0633\u062a\u063a\u0644\u0627\u0644\u064a\u0629 ---------------- **** \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0627\u062a **** \"\u0647\u064a\u0643\u064a\u0643\u0648\u0645\u0648\u0631\u064a \u3072\u304d\u3053\u3082\u308a Hikikomori\" \u0647\u064a \u0638\u0627\u0647\u0631\u0629 \u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639\u064a\u0629 \u0644\u0644\u0627\u0633\u0641 \u062a\u0641\u0634\u062a \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u064a\u0627\u0628\u0627\u0646 \u0648\u0641\u064a \u0637\u0631\u064a\u0642\u0647\u0627 \u0644\u0628\u0627\u0642\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0644\u0644\u0627\u0633\u0641.. \u0627\u0644\u0647\u064a\u0643\u064a\u0643\u0648\u0645\u0648\u0631\u064a\u060c \u0647\u0648 \u0645\u0635\u0637\u0644\u062d \u064a\u0627\u0628\u0627\u0646\u064a \u0645\u0639\u0646\u0627\u0647 \u062d\u0631\u0641\u064a\u064b\u0627 \u0625\u0646\u0633\u062d\u0627\u0628\u060c \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0642\u0648\u0642\u0639 \u060c\u0647\u0648 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0646\u0633\u062d\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u062c\u062a\u0645\u0627\u0639\u064a \u0623\u0648 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0632\u0644\u0629 \u0644\u062f\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0631\u0627\u0647\u0642\u064a\u0646 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0628\u0627\u0644\u063a\u064a\u0646. \u0647\u0646\u0627\u0643 \u0623\u0643\u062b\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0645\u0644\u064a\u0648\u0646 \u0647\u064a\u0643\u064a\u0643\u0648\u0645\u0648\u0631\u064a \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u064a\u0627\u0628\u0627\u0646 \u064a\u0631\u0641\u0636\u0648\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062e\u0631\u0648\u062c \u0645\u0646 \u0645\u0646\u0627\u0632\u0644\u0647\u0645 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u0641\u0627\u0639\u0644 \u0645\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u062c\u062a\u0645\u0639 \u0639\u0646 \u0637\u0631\u064a\u0642 \u0627\u0646\u0639\u0632\u0627\u0644\u0647\u0645 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0646\u0632\u0644 \u0644\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0629 \u0632\u0645\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0637\u0648\u064a\u0644\u0629\u060c \u064a\u0643\u062a\u0641\u0648\u0646 \u0628\u0645\u0634\u0627\u0647\u062f\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0645\u064a \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0641\u0644\u0627\u0645 \u0648\u0642\u0631\u0627\u0621\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u062a\u0628 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0627\u0646\u062c\u0627\u060c \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0639\u062f\u062f \u0641\u064a \u0625\u0632\u062f\u064a\u0627\u062f \u0645\u0633\u062a\u0645\u0631\u060c \u0646\u062a\u064a\u062c\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0634\u0627\u0643\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u062c\u062a\u0645\u0627\u0639\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062b\u0642\u0627\u0641\u064a\u0629 -\u0644\u0642\u062f \u0628\u062f\u0623\u062a \u0627\u062e\u0634\u064a \u0627\u0646\u0646\u064a \u0627\u0634\u0639\u0631 \u0628\u0647\u0630\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0639\u0631\u0627\u0636\u060c \u0648\u0627\u0644'\u0627\u0648\u0627\u0633\u064a\u0633' \u0627\u0644\u062e\u0627\u0635\u0629 \u0628\u064a \u0647\u064a \u0645\u0643\u062a\u0628\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u062a\u062a\u0636\u062e\u0645 \u064a\u0648\u0645\u0627 \u062a\u0644\u0648 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062e\u0631\u060c \u0648\u0627\u0646 \u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u062a\u064a \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0648\u062f\u0631\u064a\u062f\u0632 \u0635\u0627\u0631\u062a \u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0643\u062b\u0631 \u0645\u0646\u064a- \u0644\u0642\u062f \u0638\u0647\u0631\u062a \u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u064a\u0627\u0628\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0644\u0625\u0638\u0647\u0627\u0631 \u062a\u0641\u0634\u064a \u062a\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0638\u0627\u0647\u0631\u0629\u060c \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646\u0643 \u0625\u0630\u0627 \u0645\u0627 \u062f\u0642\u0642\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0638\u0631 \u0633\u062a\u062c\u062f \u0627\u0646 \u062c\u0645\u064a\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0626\u064a\u0633\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u0627\u0647\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0627 \u0645\u0646\u0639\u0632\u0644\u0648\u0646 \u0627\u062e\u0631\u0648\u0646 \u0644\u0627\u062d\u0638 \u0627\u064a\u0636\u0627 \u0627\u0646 \u0639\u062f\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u064a\u0627\u0645 \u0628\u0631\u064a\u0627\u0636\u0629 \u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0648 \u0639\u062f\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0643\u0629 \u0628\u062c\u062f \u0627\u0648 \u0639\u062f\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0647\u062a\u0645\u0627\u0645 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0638\u0647\u0631 \u0633\u064a\u062c\u0639\u0644 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0634\u0631 \u0628\u062f\u0646\u0627\u0621 -\u0647\u0646\u0627\u0643 \u0646\u0638\u0627\u0645 \u0631\u062c\u064a\u0645 \u0645\u0645\u062a\u0627\u0632 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0641\u0643\u0631\u0629 \u0648\u0642\u0627\u0633\u064a \u0628\u062d\u0642- \u0648\u0627\u064a\u0636\u0627 \u0633\u064a\u062c\u0639\u0644 \u0645\u0646\u0647\u0645 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0637\u0628\u0639 \u0645\u062e\u062a\u0644\u0641\u064a\u0646 \u062a\u0645\u0627\u0645\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0639\u0646 \u0645\u0638\u0647\u0631\u0647\u0645 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0644\u0639\u0628\u0629 \u062d\u062a\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0637\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0626\u064a\u0633\u064a \u060c \u0648\u0627\u064a\u062f \u0648\u0627\u062a\u0633 \u0647\u0648 \u0645\u0631\u0627\u0647\u0642\u060c \u064a\u062a\u064a\u0645\u060c \u064a\u0639\u064a\u0634 \u0645\u0639 \u062e\u0627\u0644\u062a\u0647 \u0648\u0644\u062f\u064a\u0647 \u0627\u0642\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0644\u064a\u0644 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0627\u0644\u060c \u0646\u0639\u0645 \u0647\u0648 \u064a\u0639\u0631\u0641 \u0643\u0644 \u0634\u0626 \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0648\u0627\u0633\u064a\u0633\u060c \u0648\u0639\u0646 \u0647\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062f\u0627\u064a\u060c \u0648\u0645\u0646\u0630 \u0628\u062f\u0623\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0633\u0627\u0628\u0642\u0629 \u0645\u0646 \u0623\u0631\u0628\u0639\u0629 \u0633\u0646\u0648\u0627\u062a \u0635\u0627\u0631 \u062e\u0628\u064a\u0631\u0627 \u0628\u0643\u0644 \u0645\u0627\u0635\u062f\u0631 \u0628\u062d\u0642\u0628\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0645\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0646\u0627\u062a\u060c \u0628\u0644 \u0648\u0635\u0627\u0631 \u0645\u0647\u0648\u0648\u0633\u0627 \u0628\u0643\u0644 \u0645\u0627 \u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0647\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062f\u0627\u064a \u0645\u0647\u0648\u0648\u0633\u0627 \u0628\u0647 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 4 \u0633\u0646\u0648\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0646\u0642\u0636\u062a \u0648\u0644\u0645 \u064a\u0639\u062b\u0631 \u0627\u062d\u062f\u0647\u0645 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0645\u0641\u062a\u0627\u062d \u0648\u0627\u062d\u062f \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0641\u0627\u062a\u064a\u062d \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0644\u0627\u062b\u0629\u060c \u0646\u0627\u0647\u064a\u0643 \u0639\u0646 \u0628\u0648\u0627\u0628\u0629 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0644\u0627\u062b\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0623\u0645\u0631 \u0646\u0641\u0633\u0647 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0646\u0633\u0628\u0629 \u0644\u0648\u0627\u064a\u062f\u2026 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0639\u0630\u0631 \u0648\u0627\u064a\u062f \u0631\u063a\u0645 \u0630\u0643\u0627\u0626\u0647 \u0647\u0648 \u0641\u0642\u0631\u0647\u060c \u0641\u0642\u062f \u062a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0627\u0648\u0627\u0633\u064a\u0633 \u0645\u062c\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0646\u0642\u0644 \u0628\u064a\u0646 \u0639\u0648\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u062a\u0639\u062f\u062f\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0645\u062a\u0644\u0627\u0643 \u0627\u0633\u0644\u062d\u0629 \u0648\u0645\u0639\u062f\u0627\u062a \u0644\u0644\u0646\u0632\u0627\u0644 \u0644\u0647\u0627 \u062a\u0643\u0644\u0641\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u062d\u062a\u064a 11 \u0641\u0628\u0631\u0627\u064a\u0631 2045...\u0628\u0639\u062f 4 \u0627\u0639\u0648\u0627\u0645 \u060c \u0639\u0646\u062f\u0645\u0627 \u0648\u062c\u062f \u0627\u062d\u062f\u0647\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0641\u062a\u0627\u062d \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0648\u0644 \u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u064a\u062f \u0647\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0627\u0648\u064a\u060c \u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0629 \u0638\u0631\u064a\u0641\u0629 \u0630\u0643\u064a\u0629\u060c \u0645\u0647\u0648\u0648\u0633\u0629 \u0643\u0647\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062f\u0627\u064a\u060c\u0648\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0624\u0644\u0641 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0637\u0628\u0639 \u0648\u0628\u0630\u0643\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0624\u0644\u0641 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0646\u0633\u0628\u0629 \u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0628\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0648\u062d\u064a\u062f\u0629 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0646\u0633\u0628\u0629 \u0644\u064a \u0628\u062e\u0635\u0648\u0635 \u062a\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629\u060c \u0627\u0648 \u0627\u0633\u0644\u0648\u0628 \u0625\u0631\u0646\u0633\u062a \u0639\u0627\u0645\u0627 -\u0641\u0642\u062f \u0642\u0631\u0623\u062a \u0644\u0647 \u0623\u0631\u0645\u0627\u062f\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0642\u0628\u0644\u060c \u0643\u062a\u0627\u0628\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0627\u0646\u064a- \u0647\u0648 \u0627\u0646 \u0647\u0646\u0627\u0643 \u062f\u0627\u0626\u0645\u0627 \u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u0644\u062d\u062f\u0629\u060c \u0648\u064a\u062c\u0628 \u0627\u0646 \u062a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0635\u0631\u064a\u062d\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0644\u062d\u0627\u062f \u0648\u0628\u0633\u0637\u0648\u0631 \u0628\u0633\u064a\u0637\u0629 \u0642\u0644\u064a\u0644\u0629 \u062a\u0634\u0631\u062d \u0648\u062c\u0647\u0629 \u0646\u0638\u0631\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u0643\u0623\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0645\u0631 \u062c\u0644\u064a\u0627 \u0625\u0646\u0647 \u0644\u0627 \u064a\u0648\u062c\u062f \u0622\u0644\u0647 \u0644\u0627 \u0623\u062f\u0631\u064a \u062d\u0642\u0627 \u0648\u062c\u0647\u0629 \u0646\u0638\u0631\u0647 \u0641\u064a -\u0627\u0644\u062a\u0628\u0634\u064a\u0631-\u0628\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0644\u062d\u0627\u062f \u0643\u0645\u0627 \u064a\u0641\u0639\u0644 \u063a\u064a\u0631\u0647 \u0623\u064a\u0636\u0627 \u0648\u0643\u0623\u0646\u0647\u0645 \u0642\u062f \u064a\u062f\u062e\u0644\u0648\u0627 \u062c\u0646\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0644\u062d\u062f\u064a\u0646 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0644\u0645\u062c\u0647\u0648\u062f\u0627\u062a\u0647\u0645 \u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0646\u062a\u0642\u0635 \u0646\u062c\u0645\u0629 \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0644\u0645\u062c\u0631\u062f \u0627\u0646 \u0645\u0627 \u0642\u0627\u0644\u0647 \u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0642\u0644\u064a\u0644\u0627 \u062c\u062f\u0627 \u0648\u063a\u064a\u0631 \u0645\u0624\u062b\u0631\u060c \u0628\u0644 \u0641\u0639\u0644\u0647 \u0645\u0624\u0644\u0641\u064a\u0646 \u0645\u0635\u0631\u064a\u064a\u0646 \u0648\u0639\u0631\u0628 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0627\u0643\u062b\u0631 \u0648\u0642\u0627\u062d\u0629 \u0628\u062d\u062c\u0629 \u062a\u0642\u062f\u064a\u0645 \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0630\u0627\u062a \u0631\u0633\u0627\u0644\u0629 \u062f\u064a\u0646\u064a\u0629- \u0631\u0627\u062c\u0639 \u062c\u0628\u0644\u0627\u0648\u064a \u0646\u062c\u064a\u0628 \u0645\u062d\u0641\u0648\u0638 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0628\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062e\u0631\u064a \u0647\u0646\u0627\u060c \u0644\u0627 \u0644\u064a\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0646\u0633\u060c \u0627\u0644\u062d\u062f\u064a\u062b \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u062f\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0631\u064a\u0629\u060c \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0637\u0628\u0639 \u0644\u0627 \u062c\u0646\u0633 \u0645\u0639 \u0647\u0624\u0644\u0627\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0646\u0639\u0632\u0644\u0648\u0646 \u063a\u0631\u064a\u0628\u0648 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0637\u0648\u0627\u0631. .. \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0645\u0627\u064a\u0634\u0641\u0639 \u0644\u0647 \u0647\u0648 \u062e\u0641\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062f\u0645 \u0648\u0639\u062f\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0628\u062a\u0630\u0627\u0644 \u0628\u0644 \u0648\u062a\u0642\u062f\u064a\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0627\u0646\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0626 \u0644\u0647\u0627 ~~~~~~~ \u0627\u062a\u0634 Aech \u0635\u062f\u064a\u0642 \u0648\u0627\u064a\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0635\u062f\u0648\u0642\u060c \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0636\u064a \u0641\u062d\u0633\u0628 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0637\u0628\u0639\u060c \u0648\u0633\u064a\u0645 \u062c\u062f\u0627\u060c \u0642\u0648\u064a\u060c \u0628\u0639\u0636\u0644\u0627\u062a...\u0644\u0645 \u064a\u0646\u0641\u0643 \u064a\u062e\u0628\u0631 \u0648\u0627\u064a\u062f \u0623\u0646\u0647 \u0627\u0643\u062b\u0631 \u0648\u0633\u0627\u0645\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0637\u0628\u0639 \u0644\u0645 \u064a\u0642\u0627\u0628\u0644\u0647 \u0623\u0628\u062f\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0642\u0628\u0644 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u0629\u060c \u0647\u0645\u0627 \u0627\u0635\u062f\u0642\u0627\u0621 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0636\u064a \u0641\u062d\u0633\u0628 \u0647\u0648 \u0627\u063a\u0646\u064a \u0645\u0646\u0647 \u0627\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0636\u064a\u0627\u060c\u0648\u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u062a\u0647 \u0628\u0645\u0633\u062a\u0648\u064a \u0623\u0639\u0644\u064a \u0648\u064a\u0631\u0641\u0636 \u0648\u0627\u064a\u062f \u0627\u0646 \u064a\u0633\u0623\u0644\u0647 \u0627\u064a \u0645\u0633\u0627\u0639\u062f\u0629 \u0641\u0647\u0648 \u0644\u0627 \u064a\u0648\u062f \u0623\u0646 \u064a\u0639\u062b\u0631 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0627\u0626\u0632\u0629 \u0628\u0641\u0636\u0644 \u0627\u064a \u0623\u062d\u062f \u0647\u0644 \u062a\u062a\u0630\u0643\u0631 \u0645\u062d\u0627\u062f\u062b\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0631\u0627\u0645\u062c \u0627\u0644\u0642\u062f\u064a\u0645\u0629 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0646\u062a\u0631\u0646\u062a \u062d\u064a\u062b \u0644\u0627 \u062a\u062f\u0631\u064a \u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0645\u0646 \u0623\u0645\u0627\u0645\u0643\u060c \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0646\u0641\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0645\u0631 (view spoiler) [ \u0648\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u062a\u0645\u0627\u0644\u0643 \u0646\u0641\u0633\u064a \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0636\u062d\u0643 \u0639\u0646\u062f\u0645\u0627 \u0631\u0623\u064a\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0634\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u062a\u062e\u064a\u0644\u062a\u0647 \u0647\u0643\u0630\u0627 \u064a\u062a\u0636\u062d \u0627\u0646\u0647 .... \u0644\u064a\u0633 \u0634\u0627\u0628\u0627 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0637\u0644\u0627\u0642 (hide spoiler) ] \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0642\u062f\u0631 \u0645\u0627 \u0643\u0646\u062a \u0645\u062a\u0634\u0648\u0642\u0627 \u0644\u0645\u0639\u0631\u0641\u0647 \u0634\u0643\u0644\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u064a\u060c \u0642\u062f \u0645\u0627 \u0643\u0646\u062a \u0627\u0631\u064a\u062f \u0628\u0642\u0648\u0629 \u0631\u0624\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u0646 \u064a\u0647\u0648\u0627\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u0627\u064a\u062f\u060c \u0645\u0646 \u0637\u0631\u0641 \u0648\u0627\u062d\u062f \u0622\u0631\u062a\u064a\u0645\u0633 \u0641\u062a\u0627\u0629 \u0630\u0643\u064a\u0629 \u062c\u0645\u064a\u0644\u0629 \u0644\u0628\u0642\u0629\u060c \u0645\u0646 \u0646\u062c\u0648\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0648\u0634\u064a\u0627\u0644 \u0645\u064a\u062f\u064a\u0627 \u0628\u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645\u060c \u0648\u0628\u0627\u0644\u0637\u0628\u0639 \u0633\u0628\u0628 \u0634\u0647\u0631\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u063a\u0631\u064a\u0628\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0637\u0648\u0627\u0631\u060c \u0645\u0647\u0648\u0648\u0633\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u062d\u062b \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0627\u0626\u0632\u0629 \u0648\u0643\u0644 \u0627\u0647\u062a\u0645\u0627\u0645\u0627\u062a \u0647\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062f\u0627\u064a \u0628\u0627\u0644\u062b\u0645\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0646\u0627\u062a \u0648\u062a\u062d\u0641\u0638 \u0643\u0644 \u0627\u0641\u0644\u0627\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0629 \u0648\u062a\u062a\u0642\u0646 \u0643\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0644\u0642\u0627\u0626\u0647\u0627 -\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0636\u064a- \u0645\u0639 \u0648\u0627\u064a\u062f \u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0645\u0641\u0627\u062c\u0623\u0629 \u0633\u0627\u0631\u0629 \u0648\u0628\u062a\u0648\u0627\u0644\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0633\u062a\u0642\u0639 \u0641\u064a \u062d\u0628\u0647\u0627\u060c \u0648\u062a\u062a\u0645\u0646\u064a \u0627\u0646 \u062a\u0639\u0631\u0641 \u0648\u062c\u0647\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u064a \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0638\u0628\u0637 \u0643\u0648\u0627\u064a\u062f \u0648\u0627\u062a\u0633 \u0648\u0647\u0646\u0627\u0643 \u0627\u0648\u062c\u062f\u064a\u0646 \u0635\u062f\u064a\u0642 \u0647\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062f\u0627\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0648\u062d\u064a\u062f \u0648\u0645\u0624\u0633\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u0631\u0643\u0629 \u0645\u0639\u0647 \u0642\u0628\u0644 \u0627\u0646\u0641\u0635\u0627\u0644\u0647\u0645\u0627 \u0633\u0648\u0631\u064a\u0646\u062a\u0648 \u0630\u0648 \u0645\u0646\u0635\u0628 \u0647\u0627\u0645 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0634\u0631\u0643\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0634\u062a\u063a\u0644\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u062d\u062f \u0643\u0628\u0627\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0628\u0627\u0648\u0627\u0633\u064a\u0633 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u064a\u0633\u0639\u064a \u0648\u0634\u0631\u0643\u062a\u0647 \u062e\u0644\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0627\u0626\u0632\u0629 \u0628\u0623\u064a \u062b\u0645\u0646...\u062d\u062a\u064a \u0644\u0648 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0642\u062a\u0644 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062f\u0645\u0627\u0631 \u062f\u064a\u062a\u0648 \u0648\u0634\u0648\u062a\u0648 \u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u062a\u0627\u0646 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u064a\u0627\u0628\u0627\u0646\u060c \u062d\u064a\u062b \u0633\u0646\u0641\u0647\u0645 \u0645\u0641\u0647\u0648\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0647\u0643\u064a\u0643\u064a\u0645\u0648\u0631\u064a \u0648\u0647\u0645\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0646\u0627\u0641\u0633\u064a\u0646 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0628\u062d\u062b \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0627\u0626\u0632\u0629 \u0643\u0644 \u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u0646 \u062a\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0644\u0647\u0627 \u062e\u0644\u0641\u064a\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u062d\u0643\u0627\u064a\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u062a\u0627\u0631\u064a\u062e\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0641\u0627\u062c\u0623\u062a \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0633\u062a\u0642\u0627\u0628\u0644\u0647\u0645 \u0648\u062a\u0642\u0627\u0628\u0644\u0643 \u0645\u0646 \u062e\u0644\u0627\u0644 \u0633\u064a\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u064a\u062a\u0636\u0627\u0641\u0631 \u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0628\u062f\u064a\u0639 \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0636\u062e\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0631\u0633\u0648\u0645 \u0628\u0627\u062a\u0642\u0627\u0646\u060c \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0648\u064a\u0629 \u062b\u0644\u0627\u062b\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0627\u0628\u0639\u0627\u062f\u060c \u0644\u062a\u0623\u062a\u064a \u0642\u0635\u0629 \u0648\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u062b\u064a\u0631\u0629\u060c \u062a\u062d\u0628\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0646\u0641\u0627\u0633\u060c \u0645\u0645\u062a\u0639\u0629 \u0648\u0634\u064a\u0642\u0629...\u0648\u0645\u062a\u0642\u0646\u0629 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0646\u0647\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0635\u062f\u0627\u0642\u0629\u060c \u0634\u062c\u0627\u0639\u0629\u060c \u062a\u0642\u0628\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u062e\u0631\u060c \u0639\u062f\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0645\u064a\u064a\u0632 \u0644\u0627 \u062c\u062f\u064a\u062f\u061f \u0647\u064a \u0631\u0633\u0627\u0626\u0644 \u0647\u0627\u0631\u064a \u0628\u0648\u062a\u0631 \u0648\u062c\u064a \u0643\u064a \u0631\u0648\u0644\u064a\u0646\u062c \u0625\u062b\u0627\u0631\u0629\u060c \u0645\u062a\u0639\u0629\u060c \u062a\u0634\u0648\u064a\u0642\u060c \u063a\u0632\u0627\u0631\u0629 \u0645\u0639\u0644\u0648\u0645\u0627\u062a \u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u064a\u0629 \u0644\u0627 \u062c\u062f\u064a\u062f\u060c \u0647\u0648 \u0646\u0641\u0633\u0647 \u062f\u0627\u0646 \u0628\u0631\u0627\u0648\u0646 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0641\u064a \u0645\u062c\u0627\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0631\u0641\u064a\u0647 \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646 \u0642\u0635\u0629 \u063a\u064a\u0631 \u0645\u0643\u0631\u0631\u0629\u060c \u0628\u0644\u0627 \u0643\u0644\u0627\u0634\u064a\u0647\u0627\u062a\u060c \u0645\u062b\u064a\u0631\u0629\u060c \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0631\u0633\u0627\u0644 \u0628\u062d\u0633\u0627\u0628 \u0648\u0645\u0645\u062a\u0639 \u0648\u062c\u062f\u064a\u062f \u0648\u0644\u064a\u0633 \u0645\u062c\u0631\u062f \u062d\u0634\u0648\u060c \u0627\u0642\u062a\u0628\u0627\u0633\u0627\u062a \u0638\u0631\u064a\u0641\u0629 \u0648\u0644\u0647\u0627 \u0645\u062d\u0644 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0639\u0631\u0627\u0628 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0644\u064a\u0633\u062a \u0645\u0642\u062d\u0645\u0629 \u0642\u062f \u064a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0647\u0646\u0627\u0643 \u0628\u0639\u0636 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0637\u0621 \u0641\u064a \u0628\u062f\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0631\u062d\u0644\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0629...\u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646\u0647 \u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0647\u062f\u0648\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u064a\u0633\u0628\u0642 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0635\u0641\u0629 \u0628\u0646\u0627\u0621 \u0644\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0645\u062a\u0642\u0646 \u0648\u0645\u0646\u0637\u0642\u064a \u0642\u0635\u0629 \u062a\u0636\u0639 \u0639\u0644\u064a \u0648\u062c\u0647\u0643 \u0627\u0628\u062a\u0633\u0627\u0645\u0629 \u0639\u0631\u064a\u0636\u0629...\u062a\u062f\u0641\u0639\u0643 \u0644\u0644\u062a\u062d\u0631\u0643 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u063a\u064a\u064a\u0631 \u062a\u0645\u0646\u062d\u0643 \u0648\u0644\u0648 \u062c\u0631\u0639\u0629 \u0627\u0645\u0644 \u0635\u063a\u064a\u0631\u0629 \u0627\u0633\u062a\u0645\u062a\u0639\u062a \u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u0643\u0623\u0646\u0646\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0628 \u0627\u0642\u0648\u064a \u0623\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0645\u0628\u064a\u0648\u062a\u0631 \u0648\u0634\u0639\u0631\u062a \u0628\u0646\u0648\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0644\u064a\u062c\u0627 \u0643\u0623\u0646\u064a \u0627\u0634\u0627\u0647\u062f \u0641\u064a\u0644\u0645 \u0641\u064a\u062f\u064a\u0648 \u0645\u0624\u062c\u0631 \u06284 \u062c\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0644\u064a\u0644\u0629 \u0627\u062c\u0627\u0632\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0635\u064a\u0641 \u0648\u062d\u0628\u0633\u062a \u0627\u0646\u0641\u0627\u0633\u064a \u0648\u0643\u0623\u0646\u064a \u0641\u064a \u062e\u0637\u0631 \u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u064a \u0636\u062d\u0643\u062a \u0643\u0627\u0646\u0646\u064a \u0623\u0634\u0627\u0647\u062f \u0645\u0633\u0631\u062d\u064a\u0629 \u0642\u062f\u064a\u0645\u0629\u060c \u0648\u062e\u0641\u062a \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0633\u062a\u0642\u0628\u0644 \u0628\u0639\u0636 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u0626 \u0648\u0634\u0639\u0631\u062a \u0627\u0646\u0647 \u064a\u062c\u0628 \u0627\u0646 \u064a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0647\u0646\u0627\u0643 \u062a\u063a\u064a\u064a\u0631 \u062a\u063a\u064a\u064a\u0631 \u062d\u0642\u064a\u0642\u064a \u0647\u0644 \u0627\u0646\u062a \u0645\u0633\u062a\u0639\u062f\u061f Ready Player One \u0645\u062d\u0645\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0631\u0628\u064a \u0645\u0646 8 \u0623\u063a\u0633\u0637\u0633 2016 \u0625\u0644\u064a 16 \u0623\u063a\u0633\u0637\u0633 2016 Oh and it's August,12 ... Happy Birthday Wade Watts In the remaining 7511 characters left, I will sum up an English review if u r interested enough in my humble English reviews.. Detected to the great cast of Stranger Things :) It's 7394 only now :( [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Did Ready Player One push all the right buttons? Let's find out! ______________________ Ernest's Quest The Five Golden Stars Mattendo\u00ae All rights reserved ______________________ Start Game Options Quit ______________________ Select difficulty level Easy Medium Hard ______________________ Loading ______________________ Level 1: Command & Conquer: Starbase Defense Ernest is seen from a top down perspective. He's in the top left corner of a green battleground dotted with trees, mountains and rivers. The bottom ri Did Ready Player One push all the right buttons? Let's find out! ______________________ Ernest's Quest The Five Golden Stars Mattendo\u00ae All rights reserved ______________________ Start Game Options Quit ______________________ Select difficulty level Easy Medium Hard ______________________ Loading ______________________ Level 1: Command & Conquer: Starbase Defense Ernest is seen from a top down perspective. He's in the top left corner of a green battleground dotted with trees, mountains and rivers. The bottom right corner, the enemy's base of operations, is shrouded in impenetrable darkness. Ernest is standing next to a star-shaped command center he needs to defend against the enemy at all costs. An Idea Harvest Truck is parked next to the command center, engine running. Ernest jumps in and gets going to the center of the map where Ideas are known sprout up continuously. Top priority: to create a setting. The first idea he harvests is that of Dystopia. This generates a whole city around Star Command. The city is dilapidated but huge, providing a buffer against the enemy who is already sending scouts of Skeptics to Ernest's base. They don't get far as the city, already teeming with life and possibility, swallows them whole. The stacks of RV's on the outskirts of the base provide not only a magnificent sight but a great vantage point for Ernest's snipers. Ernest continues harvesting and stumbles on Technological Advances. The run-down city and its inhabitants are outfitted with any weapon you can think of, be it from fantasy worlds, movies, books, video games, television series or your own wild imagination. It's already clear that Ernest's enemies don't stand a chance, so a new challenge pops up. Bonus objective: Cultivate Starfruit Just outside of the city there is a patch where starfruit can be grown. Ernest sends groups of farmers out to the field but as they venture out of the protective city they are easily killed by the Skeptics. Ernest continues harvesting for ideas and hits the mother lode: OASIS. Virtual reality taken to its extremes, wherein everything is possible. A universe of planets, challenges, references, memories, people. A milky way with only planets referring to cereals? You got it. A solar system perpetually set in the eighties? Check. A planet devoted to the first Rush album? Check. An asteroid recreating your favorite TV show? Check. Check. Check. You got it all. Literally everything is possible and everything feels real. The universe is an amusement park that you yourself can create, that you yourself can enjoy, touch, hear, smell and almost taste, provided you've got the hardware. A universe in which you can die and start again, in which you can make sure that you're ready before starting to live. After Ernest safely made his way back to Star Command, the OASIS idea generates a force field encapsulating both the city and the surrounding fields, so that the starfruit can safely be harvested. The Skeptic enemies all try to attack simultaneously in a last ditch effort but they crash into the force field and die bloody deaths. Mission Accomplished - Objective 1: Starbase defended. - 1 star earned - Bonus Objective: Starfruit cultivated - 1 star earned ______________________ Level 2: Out Run: Star Circuit Ernest finds himself in a red sports car, the licence plate reads PLOTMOBILE. There's a hot blonde sitting in the passenger seat, yammering relentlessly. The setting having been successfully created in level 1, he now needs to race through the plot with adequate pacing, respecting the twists and turns without losing grip on his mobile and reach the finish to earn a star. 3, 2, 1, GO! Nemesis Booster engaged. A hugely impressive and worthy opponent-boost drives the Plotmobile forward. Ernest takes the turns in and out of reality fluidly, giving adequate attention both to what goes on in the real world as well as exploring some of the endless possibilities within OASIS. It's clear Ernest understands the mechanics of his machine well, as he effortlessly cruises through the landscape and dexterously avoids the plot holes in the road. The Finish line in sight, Ernest engages his Tolkien Quest-thrusters that work remarkably well in this new setting. He honks his big Finale horn as the car crosses the line and his passenger finally stops talking and decides to embrace him. Finish! He gets a neat parking bonus illustrating his keen eye for detail and takes his third star to the next level. ______________________ Start Level 3: Super Nostalgia World Ernest is now a plumber and needs to hit as many Nostalgia Mushrooms before reaching the castle. Not an easy challenge because most Nostalgia Mushrooms are from the '80s. They're not worth much bonus points given the score is mainly sensitive to the '90's variety. The cheat code \"EARLIEST CHILDHOOD MEMORIES\" is entered and in the distance the Lambada can be heard. Ernest jumps on Pac-Man references, arcade hall-turtles, Monty Python-mushrooms and a whole army of old video game console systems. After this stroll through memory lane and thanks to the cheat code he racked up a considerable NOSTALGIA bonus as he reaches the doors of Futuro Castle. Once inside the castle things are different and far from nostalgic. Enemies can no longer be stomped on so now Ernest needs to refer back to his harvested Technological Advances idea and design a whole array of inventions. Some are possible and may very well see the light of day in reality, others are far-fetched, but all of them allow him to move forward in this futuristic landscape with grace and even humor, defeating Skeptics, Boredoms and Doubts in the process. He reaches the final room where a fourth star jumps out of a bag, ready to be taken home. It also carries a note. Thank you Ernest, but the fifth star is in another castle. ______________________ Boss Fight: Dr. Skepticor After the castle stage Ernest is immediately teleported to Dr. Skepticor's lair. Dr. Skepticor is an evil reviewer who holds power over all the stars. Having already lost four he now clutches on to the fifth, final star, dubbed The Amazing One. Ernest will need to use all in his power to defeat this terrible monster and grab the elusive star. He stands at one end of a bridge that spans over a pool of lava. Dr. Skepticor awaits him disdainfully at the other side. Ernest starts the fight by sending out power beams that emerge out of his skillful hands. He starts with strong bursts of Plot and Nostalgia that immediately put his enemy off balance. A barrage of Excellent Pacing further eats away at the health of Dr. Skepticor, who's already loosening his grip on the star. The villain, intimidated by the aura of Historical Relevance which our hero is emitting, throws up a barrier of Impossibly High Standards. Ernest shoots more of his earlier beams but they bounce off the mystical shield. He tries it with salvos of Character Development but they prove insufficient to pierce through Skepticor's defense. Ernest had heard about this barrier and read that it is virtually powerless against Pure Beauty, Philosophical Meaning and the lucky charm \"Exceptionally Good Mood\". Ernest looks in his inventory but has got none of those. He's got some easy-access Life Lesson Bullets and some ammo of Political Correctness Extravaganza but they might as well be blanks for all the good they are against Dr. Skepticor's shield. His mighty Finale seems to at least put cracks in the monster's defense, but it's not enough to destroy the creature. In a desperate attempt Ernest casts a Love Story spell on Dr. Skepticor but it backfires completely, flying back in our hero's face and sending him tumbling off the bridge. He manages to hold on to the side of the platform but he already knows he's lost when he sees Dr. Skepticor charge up his ultimate weapon: The Review. Ernest glances one last time at his inventory with his well-deserved stars sparkling in it, before letting The Review do its work and finish it off. Game Over ______________________ Congratulations! You earned 4 stars! Insert Some Years To Try Again ______________________ Credits My gaming memories: Level 1 inspired by Westwood's Command & Conquer: Red Alert Level 2 inspired by Sega's Out Run Level 3 and Boss fight inspired by Nintendo's Super Mario Bros. ______________________ ...more 4.5 Stars I\u2019ll say this for Mr. Cline\u2014the man knows his audience. Take one genius high concept, throw in a liberal sprinkling of geek-friendly 80s pop culture references, and add a dash of solid writing and you\u2019ve got a crowd-pleasing recipe for anyone of a remotely dorkish hue (that hue, incidentally, is nearly colorless, as you can clearly see from my own pale countenance). I\u2019ll refrain from much in the way of plot summary here, in part to avoid spoilers, and because I\u2019d rather focus on what I f 4.5 Stars I\u2019ll say this for Mr. Cline\u2014the man knows his audience. Take one genius high concept, throw in a liberal sprinkling of geek-friendly 80s pop culture references, and add a dash of solid writing and you\u2019ve got a crowd-pleasing recipe for anyone of a remotely dorkish hue (that hue, incidentally, is nearly colorless, as you can clearly see from my own pale countenance). I\u2019ll refrain from much in the way of plot summary here, in part to avoid spoilers, and because I\u2019d rather focus on what I found so appealing about the book (beyond the Rush references, of course, which never hurt). It wasn\u2019t the amazing array of game, movie, music, and cartoon references in and of themselves (though those were, of course, delightful, and may or may not have caused a steady flow of nostalgia-induced tears to stream from my eyes, much to the discomfort of my fellow commuters\u2026fortunately, I wrapped a copy of Old Yeller around the outside of my Kindle as I read those parts, so they understood\u2014or thought they understood\u2014the source of my melancholy optical water expulsion; apparently, it\u2019s more socially acceptable to weep at the thought of a loyal canine getting one to the temple than it is at the thought of an Atari 2600). Rather, it was the way that Cline paid homage to the brilliance and creativity of the storytellers and artists who created those seminal works while also pushing them forward into a world of technology that allowed their vision to be more fully (and interactively) realized. In a time when it seems like we\u2019re constantly moving onto the next thing, even as we\u2019re in the midst of the previous thing, and sometimes not even done with the thing before that, the notion of immortalizing the works of the giants upon whose shoulders we so delightedly stand, even in the midst of a virtual and ephemeral world, is an appealing one. Any book that moves me to want to reengage with and reexamine old favorites or to seek out landmark works I\u2019ve yet to read/see/hear is a book that gets a place of honor on my (in this case virtual, appropriately enough) bookshelf. And any book that references Ghostbusters ( which we all know I love ), D&D, Rush, and Pitfall is just f@#$ing splendiferous. ...more 1980's mass-media nascent-computer-nerd porn disguised as a mystery-caper. Perfectly enjoyable, but probably only for Americans born between 1968 and 1982. It really is, start to finish, an entertaining homage to the corny, the magnificent, and the perhaps-unjustifiably-popular culture of a certain slice of America\u2014and even worse, only for a specific span. So your mileage may vary. As for me... ...It was like watching Back To The Future and War Games back to back while playing the Legend of Zelda on 1980's mass-media nascent-computer-nerd porn disguised as a mystery-caper. Perfectly enjoyable, but probably only for Americans born between 1968 and 1982. It really is, start to finish, an entertaining homage to the corny, the magnificent, and the perhaps-unjustifiably-popular culture of a certain slice of America\u2014and even worse, only for a specific span. So your mileage may vary. As for me... ...It was like watching Back To The Future and War Games back to back while playing the Legend of Zelda on my Nintendo with Casey Kasem just hitting the top 10 on that week's American Top 40 Radio Hits in the background. While my brother watched Voltron in the next room. Followed by the Thundercats. Also: Jem. And then Sailor Moon. *twirls, ponytails swirling outwards like four-foot satin ribbons* Where was I? Oh. Right: This book is no flawless gem of literature\u2014but it sure does have its moments. My contemporaries should absolutely read this book. It's way cool. Everyone else? Wait for the movie, obviously. ...more", "Title": "Ready Player One"},
