{"Comments": "I've read this book many different times in many different ways. I read it off the page when it first came out. Later, I listened to Gaiman's narration of the audiobook when I was sequestered in the north woods of Wisconsin in a desperate attempt to finish book two. I watched the movie and enjoyed it. My most recent experience of the book was listening to it with my little boy on a long car ride. I wasn't sure he'd be able to get into it.<---F> Not because of the vocabulary</---F>. He's very sharp for being I've read this book many different times in many different ways. I read it off the page when it first came out. Later, I listened to Gaiman's narration of the audiobook when I was sequestered in the north woods of Wisconsin in a desperate attempt to finish book two. I watched the movie and enjoyed it. My most recent experience of the book was listening to it with my little boy on a long car ride. I wasn't sure he'd be able to get into it. Not because of the vocabulary. He's very sharp for being 4.5. He's good with words. But sometimes he gets a little scared. Despite my worries, he seemed to enjoy it. He paid attention, attention, asking for us to turn it back on after we stopped by the side of the road. A day later, he excitedly told me all about the story, apparently forgetting I'd been in the car too. All of that was months ago. Fast forward to now.... * * * \"Dad,\" Oot said. \"Do you know the guy who wrote <+++>Coraline</+++>?\" The question caught me by surprise. The two of us were driving to a party together, a friend was having a bonfire and I was amazed that he was thinking about anything other than smores. \"I do,\" I said. \"His name is <---A>Neil Gaiman</---A>.\" \"Do you have his phone number?\" he asked. \"No,\" I said. \"Do you know where he lives?\" \"I do,\" I said. \"Are you his friend?\" That brought me up short. For Oot, that's a simple question. If you meet someone and play with them, they're you're friend. Easy. For adults these things are harder. And it's doubly hard for me these days. My life has changed so much over the last five years, and my previously established metric for friendship doesn't work very well any more. You see,<---M> for the majority of my life</---M>, a friend was someone who would, say, help me move a couch. Someone you could bum 10 dollars off of if you needed to. A friend was someone who felt comfortable enough to come over to my house without calling first. Then, if I wasn't home, they would let themselves in, eat out of my fridge, and start watching TV. While I'm terribly fond of him, Neil Gaiman has never done any of these things. Then again, neither have any of the other authors I've met over the last few years. I'm painfully aware of the need for new friendship metrics, but I haven't managed to develop a good set yet. That won't make any sense to my boy, but still, I try to be honest with him whenever I can. \"I don't know if we're friends,\" I say. \"But we're colleagues.\" \"What's a colleagues?\" he asks, right on cue. \"That means we know each other and do the same job,\" I explain. \"Oh yes,\" he says. \"You're both authors.\" It makes me proud when he says that. I'm proud that my boy knows I write books. \"Do you know his address?\" Oot asks, and it takes me a while to realize that he's returning to his previous line of questioning. \"I do,\" I said, not bothering to point out that knowing where someone lives and knowing their address is pretty much the same thing. \"Can you send him a letter?\" \"I could,\" I say. Oot pauses for a moment then, and I realize that this has been the point of the whole conversation. He wants to send Neil Gaiman a message. \"What would you like me to write to him?\" I ask. \"You should tell him he *sure* knows how to write a scary story....\" * * * So there you go. You don't really need me to tell you how I feel about one of Gaiman's books at this point. You know I love his writing. Instead, I'm offering up my boy's unvarnished opinion. Did he think the story was scary? Absolutely. But he still wanted us to turn it back on as soon as we were back in the car. What's more, he was still thinking about <+++>Coraline</+++> months later. And it was the first book where he's ever shown any interest in contacting the author. So. Bravo, Neil Gaiman. You've managed to win over two generations of the Rothfuss household. ...more Coraline is a short but delightfully dark and creepy book that just happens to feature one of my absolute favorite characters. Is it wrong that I want to be Coraline's best friend??? \u201cBecause,' she said, 'when you're scared but you still do it anyway, that's brave.\u201d Coraline is clever, quirky, curious and adventurous, brave and determined, independent, stubborn to no end, a bit reckless and not scared of danger. She will NEVER leave any mysterious doors locked and uninvestigated. In short Coraline is a short but delightfully dark and creepy book that just happens to feature one of my absolute favorite characters. Is it wrong that I want to be Coraline's best friend??? \u201cBecause,' she said, 'when you're scared but you still do it anyway, that's brave.\u201d Coraline is clever, quirky, curious and adventurous, brave and determined, independent, stubborn to no end, a bit reckless and not scared of danger. She will NEVER leave any mysterious doors locked and uninvestigated. In short, she is what I hope my future (hypothetical) daughter is going to be like. Out of boredom due to rainy days and parental inattention, Coraline sets out on a scary but awesome adventure. She bites off (almost) more than she can chew, but comes out of it a winner and just a bit more grown-up and mature (but luckily not in a dreadful moralistic way). \"Nothing\u2019s changed. You\u2019ll go home. You\u2019ll be bored. You\u2019ll be ignored. No one will listen to you, really listen to you. You\u2019re too clever and too quiet for them to understand. They don\u2019t even get your name right.\" The story is intense and sinister, and yet really fun. With his dark fairy-tales Coraline and The Graveyard Book , Gaiman proves that he has mastered the art of writing perfect non-condescending children's books that also appeal to adults. He is not afraid of making a kids' book scary; he knows kids can handle it quite well. The \"Other\" world he creates is eerie and surreal, with a dreamlike quality - the kind of dream from which you wake up screaming. But the story is also full of humor and has the Cat! ....... ............ I guess I have a weakness for amazing book-cats (it must be the Alice in Wonderland influence on my young pliable mind back in 1980s). I adore the wisdom, independence, and a bit of condescending attitude they give humans. \"We... we could be friends, you know,\" said Coraline. \"We COULD be rare specimens of an exotic breed of African dancing elephants,\" said the cat. \"But we're not. At least,\" it added cattily, after darting a brief look at Coraline, \"I'M not.\" ----------- The language of the book is simple and sparing, and fits the story perfectly. Coraline is one of the books that are just meant to be read aloud. Overall, a great story that fully deserves the 5-star rating. ...more Has anyone ever said to you \u201ctime heals all wounds?\u201d Well for the \"villain\" of this story that is clearly not the case. It\u2019s easy to pinpoint Coraline\u2019s bravery and talk about her experience, but that\u2019s not what this review is about. I want to consider the \u201cother mother\u201d and her story. I mean what exactly is her story? We can only presume that she has been doing this kind of trickery for years, perhaps even centuries. We don\u2019t really know a great deal about her. She has three victims prior to he Has anyone ever said to you \u201ctime heals all wounds?\u201d Well for the \"villain\" of this story that is clearly not the case. It\u2019s easy to pinpoint Coraline\u2019s bravery and talk about her experience, but that\u2019s not what this review is about. I want to consider the \u201cother mother\u201d and her story. I mean what exactly is her story? We can only presume that she has been doing this kind of trickery for years, perhaps even centuries. We don\u2019t really know a great deal about her. She has three victims prior to her attempts on Coraline. Two appear to be fairly normal children. The third speaks in a form of Shakespearean English, which I took for proof of a victim many years previous. We don\u2019t know a great deal about the actual house either or how long it has actually been standing. The descriptions speak of age. But how much age are we talking? It\u2019s all a little bit of a mystery. What drove this woman to such depravity? What happened in her life that she needed to feed upon the love of children? What has she lost? Where did it all begin? I can only speculate. But one thing remains an absolute certainty to my mind; something terrible happened to the \u201cother mother\u201d a long time ago, something awful that drove her into the deepest depths of despair and as a result she clings to the essence of life: love. The movie adaption gives some brief idea of where she came from; she is Wyborn\u2019s Grandma\u2019s sister. But I\u2019m not sure how much of this we can actually consider. Although the movie was written in collaboration with Gaiman neither of the characters actually appear in the book. So I\u2019m left with even more speculation. What do you think? Is the \u201cother mother\u201d a villain or is she simply a misunderstood victim of fate? Postscript- I wish I had a friend like Coraline whilst growing up. She\u2019s one cool kid. ...more I saw the film before I read the book, which is not how I like to do things, as it can often be like taping a hockey game and having someone tell you the final score before you've had a chance to see the game for yourself. However, I can say that seeing the film first didn't really spoil the book for me. Coraline starts off rather slowly but this independent, thoughtful, odd, distant, misunderstood child soon gains the reader's sympathy. This becomes more intense as Coraline gets more deeply enm I saw the film before I read the book, which is not how I like to do things, as it can often be like taping a hockey game and having someone tell you the final score before you've had a chance to see the game for yourself. However, I can say that seeing the film first didn't really spoil the book for me. Coraline starts off rather slowly but this independent, thoughtful, odd, distant, misunderstood child soon gains the reader's sympathy. This becomes more intense as Coraline gets more deeply enmeshed in danger. Gaiman does a good job of characterization. We see the characters through the eyes of a little girl who is remarkably intelligent and yet doesn't understand everything the adults do or say. Many of the adults are eccentric in a Dickensian sort of way; they deal with others when they have to but are firmly ensconced in their own little worlds. And so they see Coraline as an oddity too. The cat is perhaps my favourite character of all. Gaiman knows cats well; they appear elsewhere in his works. And this one is the genuine article: superior, stand-offish, wilful, easily offended, and yet a true friend. Gaiman makes this a children's book that will appeal to adults as well. It doesn't talk down to children. Not everything is spelled out or explained away. We don't really know, for example, who the Other Mother is or where she came from. As the book progresses we get hints, but not a \"back-story.\" And that's just fine--although I have to admit, I'm curious. Any chance of a sequel or a prequel, Neil? ...more Coraline, not Caroline, thank you, the little girl who was small for her age, and found herself in darkest danger was the subject of Neil Gaiman\u2019s 2002 publication, which was in Gaiman\u2019s own words \u201crefreshingly creepy.\u201d Gaiman said that he started writing the book for his young daughter Holly around the time they moved to America but, unintentionally, wrote it very slowly, \u201cone word at a time\u201d and thus stretched out the project for years. Refreshingly creepy is maybe the best way to describe this Coraline, not Caroline, thank you, the little girl who was small for her age, and found herself in darkest danger was the subject of Neil Gaiman\u2019s 2002 publication, which was in Gaiman\u2019s own words \u201crefreshingly creepy.\u201d Gaiman said that he started writing the book for his young daughter Holly around the time they moved to America but, unintentionally, wrote it very slowly, \u201cone word at a time\u201d and thus stretched out the project for years. Refreshingly creepy is maybe the best way to describe this young adult work that also has darker elements, references to myth and the occult that will probably fly over the heads of younger readers. Older readers will find Coraline living down the street from Charles Addams place and also backyard neighbors of Ray Bradbury\u2019s The October Country folks. \u201cThere was a tiny doubt inside her, like a maggot in an apple core.\u201d But Gaiman\u2019s Coraline never achieves the campy fun of Addams or Bradbury, leaning instead towards a Tim Burtonesque darkness that is charming in its own way. (Though the 2009 film was directed by Burton collaborator Henry Selick). Gaiman masterfully blends haunting elements of nighttime mystery with his own inimitable style of writing, to create a setting for Coraline to explore. Coraline\u2019s plucky little girl, written soberly for a slightly more mature reader, struggles perfectly with the arcane machinations of the other mother. \u201cIt doth not hurt,\u201d whispered one faint voice. Finally, Gaiman\u2019s unique ability to craft a sepulchral niche that is akin to Lovecraft but more playful, reminds the reader of his brilliant work The Graveyard Book . An excellent introduction to his canon, this is also a must read for a Gaiman fan. ...more This a perfect, traditional fairy * tale, with a slightly surreal twenty-first century warp. The writing is as magical as the plot. Its thirteen chapters are delightful, dark, and funny, with a heroine many can relate to, as child, parent, or both. Coraline is intelligent, inquisitive, slightly contrary, hates being bored, and wishes her parents paid her more attention, and didn\u2019t feed her \u201crecipes\u201d. Perhaps, she wishes she had different parents. And you should always be careful what you wish for This a perfect, traditional fairy * tale, with a slightly surreal twenty-first century warp. The writing is as magical as the plot. Its thirteen chapters are delightful, dark, and funny, with a heroine many can relate to, as child, parent, or both. Coraline is intelligent, inquisitive, slightly contrary, hates being bored, and wishes her parents paid her more attention, and didn\u2019t feed her \u201crecipes\u201d. Perhaps, she wishes she had different parents. And you should always be careful what you wish for, even if you don\u2019t know you\u2019ve wished for it. So begins an adventure in which Coraline unlocks a door, goes down a secret passage, and finds herself in an alternate world that is eerily familiar, and scarily un familiar. She must conquer fears, discover the truth, and solve problems to find and rescue her parents, herself, and others. \" A book is not supposed to be a mirror. It's supposed to be a door. \" Fran Lebowitz. There are echoes of Grimm, Lewis Carroll, Roald Dahl, Dickens, Greek myths, and others, but it's also thoroughly original. It is YYA, rather than YA. I only wish it had been published a decade ago, so I could have read when my son was YYA. Learning Outcomes This isn\u2019t a remotely teachy or preachy book, but Coraline learns a lot about life, familial love, and especially herself. She finds bravery she didn\u2019t know she had, but she faces temptation as well. \u201c The other mother loved her\u2026 as a dragon loves gold. \u201d The other mother offers her everything she thinks she wants. But there is a price, and Coraline has a Eureka moment, and declares: \u201c I don\u2019t want whatever I want. Nobody does. Not really. What kind of fun would it be if I just got everything I ever wanted? Just like that, and it didn\u2019t mean anything? \u201d The Importance of Names Names are often endowed with supernatural power, but in this book, it\u2019s almost the reverse. In Coraline\u2019s real world, there is a strange man who has an apartment in the same house; Coraline doesn\u2019t know his name (it hadn\u2019t even occurred to her that he had one), and he always gets hers wrong (C a rol i ne). The equivalent man in the alternative world always gets her name right, and yet that's also where the cat explains why names are unimportant: \u201c We [cats] know who we are, so we don\u2019t need names. \u201d When Coraline asks what she'd do if she needed to call it, the cat replies, \u201c Calling cats\u2026 tends to be a rather overrated activity. Might as well call a whirlwind. \u201d The Importance of Fairy Tales In the introduction, Gaiman says that the prime message he wanted to convey to his young daughters was that bravery is \u201cwhen you\u2019re scared but still do it anyway\u201d. Hence, he opens with a quote from GK Chesterton: \u201c Fairy tales are more than true: not because they tell us that dragons exist, but because they tell us that dragons can be beaten. \u201d That reminded me of an equally pertinent one from Ursula Le Guin: \u201c People who deny the existence of dragons are often eaten by dragons. From within. \u201d Chris Riddell\u2019s Illustrations Compared with Henry Selick's Film My edition of the book is illustrated by Chris Riddell , who has also illustrated Gaiman's The Graveyard Book . I have fond memories of his collaboration with Paul Stewart on The Edge Chronicles , read with my son a dozen years ago, and enjoy his cartoons in The Literary Review. The slightly different imagery of the film is probably familiar to more people. I saw it several years ago, and it feels like a Tim Burton work, but it was actually adapted and directed by Henry Selick , who worked with Burton on The Nightmare Before Christmas , and also directed James and The Giant Peach (Miss Spink and Miss Forcible reminded me of aunts Spiker and Sponge). Submit to being entrapped in this tangled web of creative talent. Quotes \u2022\t\u201cIt wasn\u2019t the kind of rain you could go out in, it was the other kind, the kind that threw itself down from the sky and splashed where it landed. It was rain that meant business.\u201d \u2022\t\u201c'Go away,' he said cheerfully.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cAn argument as old and comfortable as an armchair\u2026 that no one ever really wins or loses.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThe mist hung like blindness around the house.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cShe had the feeling that the door was looking back at her, which she knew was silly, and knew on a deeper level was somehow true.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThere was something slightly vague about his face \u2013 like bread dough that has begun to rise.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cHer long white fingers fluttered gently, like a tired butterfly.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cHer hair was wriggling like lazy snakes on a warm day. Her black-button eyes seemed as if they had been freshly polished.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cIf she were nowhere, then she could be anywhere. And, after all, it is always easier to be afraid of something you can\u2019t see.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cHer voice did not just come from her mouth. It came from the mist, and the fog, and the house, and the sky.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cMirrors\u2026 are never to be trusted.\u201d But Gaiman is. This book is magical. I already said that, but it\u2019s worth repeating. * No actual fairies in this fairy tale, but that's true of most of the best fairy tales, imo. ...more Edit : I'm sorry guys, I won't be able to post the review today because it's already midnight and I was busy :( REVIEW TO COME TOMORROW. 'She left us here' said one of the voices. 'she stole our hearts, and she stole our souls, and she took our lives away, and she left us here, and she forgot about us in the dark.' This is a story about a girl named <---C>Coraline Jones</---C>, She and her parents move to a new house but they don't own all of the house. They just own part of it and they also have neighbors Edit : I'm sorry guys, I won't be able to post the review today because it's already midnight and I was busy :( REVIEW TO COME TOMORROW. 'She left us here' said one of the voices. 'she stole our hearts, and she stole our souls, and she took our lives away, and she left us here, and she forgot about us in the dark.' This is a story about a girl named Coraline Jones, She and her parents move to a new house but they don't own all of the house. They just own part of it and they also have neighbors who live in this big house. They are Miss Spink, Miss Forcible and an old man with big moustache but one day the old man says he has a message for Coraline from the mice. The message is Don't go through the door and when Coraline visites Miss Spink and Miss Forcible's house, they read Coraline's tea leaves and they say she is in danger. what does the old man mean when he says he has a message from the mice that says Don't go through the door? and what do Miss Spink and Miss Forcible mean when they say she is in danger when they see her tea leaves? what kind of danger is this? you have to read the book to know all the answers. you won't regret it once you start reading it. just go, buy the book and read it. I have always loved watching horror or creepy movies since I was a kid so when I was a kid I watched Coraline movie. I wasn't born as a reader, so I didn't read the book first before watching the movie :( and I loved it so much! I still remember those days when I watched the movie and I felt my heart pounded so hard inside my chest and it was actually one of my favorite movies. I watched it all over again and again and I even watched it again with my best friend and she totally loved it too. So months ago I decided to read the book because I loved the movie when I was a kid and I liked the book so much! it was my first book in 2017. when I started reading this book, I felt so excited because I was in reading slump ( and I'm probably still am) but I got a little bit bored when I was in the beginning maybe I felt a little bit bored because I already knew about the story but it was just a little bit. and Coraline was so cute and she was brave, clever and she also loved adventure! I mean, she was just a kid but she was SO brave. what could I do when I was around her age? possibly nothing important. you'll know what I mean if you've read this book, if you haven't then you have to read it. IT WAS SO GOOD! the story was really interesting and I should have read this book sooner! the illustrations in this book are so amazing and they're cute but some of them are scary too, which are SOO AMAZING. I almost always read this book at night and that was the perfect time to read this book. I love that feeling when I feel scared, my eyes barely wink, my breath become fast or when I clutch my hair with one hand and turn the pages very fast ( sometimes I think I'll tear my book when I turn the pages so fast. but I just can't control my emotion). So I suggest you to read this book at night. it's just the perfect time to read this book. I just don't know what to say about this book. this book was great and I enjoyed it even though I got a little bit bored at the beginning. Basically this book was great and If you want a creepy book with interesting story then I recommend you to read this book. thank you so much for reading and liking this review. Hope you all have an amazing day!\u2764\u2764\u2764 ...more Coraline was woken by the mid-morning sun, full on her face. For a moment she felt utterly dislocated. She did not know where she was; she was not entirely sure WHO she was. It is astonishing just how much of what we are can be tied to the beds we wake up in in the morning, and it is astonishing how fragile that can be. This is like Stephen King's It re-written for children. I adore Stephen King, obviously, and I highly enjoyed this creepy and horrifying children's book that Gaiman has written. Cora Coraline was woken by the mid-morning sun, full on her face. For a moment she felt utterly dislocated. She did not know where she was; she was not entirely sure WHO she was. It is astonishing just how much of what we are can be tied to the beds we wake up in in the morning, and it is astonishing how fragile that can be. This is like Stephen King's It re-written for children. I adore Stephen King, obviously, and I highly enjoyed this creepy and horrifying children's book that Gaiman has written. Coraline is a little girl who is rather introverted. This means she is ignored by adults a lot. Most of them don't even know her real name - Coraline - and instead, keep erroneously calling her Caroline. Her parents work a lot and don't spend a lot of time with Coraline. One day, Coraline discovers a secret door that leads into a world just like her own. There's her bedroom, slightly off-color. There's her bed. And there's her 'other mother' with black button eyes and fingers that are constantly twitching and writhing. Her other mother loves her. Wants her to stay. Stay forever. There's only one thing Coraline has to do, and her other mother promises it won't hurt at all... ... Seriously creepy and disturbing book. You might want to vet this for your children if you worry about that sort of thing. When I say \"Stephen King for children,\" I am not joking. This book is dark and full of very disturbing and unsettling images. I think any adult or child could really love this book. It is a great book. I think some of my favorite books are books where: They were astonishingly heavy - almost too heavy for a girl to lift, even using all her strength, but she managed. She didn't have any choice. a female character does something challenging or disgusting or scary because she has to. There's no other option - she must be strong and brave or die. No fucking around. This is so reminiscent of my life that I love seeing it in my fiction. Especially when (like here) everything turns out okay in the end and the story has a happy ending. Female characters with agency and gumption float my boat. Coraline has that in spades. She's a great little heroine. There are some things that are going to bother an adult reader. For example, a certain twist (view spoiler) [the location of Coraline's REAL parents (hide spoiler) ] will be obviously to an adult reader LONG before Coraline ever figures it out. Also, you will probably be shaking your head frequently and wondering why adults are so goshdarn useless in children's literature. Another drawback of the book for me is the utter villainization and denigration of rats. Rats are lovely creatures. Why are they always demonized in fiction? This is a travesty. You're not winning any points with me, Mr. Gaiman. And you're teaching children to hate and fear rats when really rats are a delightful pet for children to have. Friendly, sweet, smart, and cuddly. Like very tiny dogs and with much less upkeep and expense. Little things in the book I love. For instance, Coraline hates \"real food\" (what she calls 'recipes') and instead lives on stuff like microwaved frozen pizza and microwaved frozen French fries. She is delighted when, while visiting the neighbors, she is served limeade. For tea she went down to see Misses Spink and Forcible. She had three digestive biscuits, a glass of limeade, and a cup of weak tea. The limeade was very interesting. It didn't taste anything like limes. It tasted bright green and vaguely chemical. Coraline liked it enormously. She wished they had it at home. LOL So funny and so true of children. I'm glad Gaiman isn't trying to make Coraline into a 'little adult.' And, now that I think about it, nor is he trying to force some kind of 'healthy eating' agenda down readers' throats. Ugh, I hate that shit. Instead, he's absolutely captured childhood with perfection. I enjoy Gaiman's writing, which is not very detailed, but is pleasing nonetheless. The mist hung like blindness around the house. How about this passage, talking about rain: Coraline went over to the window and watched the rain come down. It wasn't the kind of rain you could go out in, it was the other kind, the kind that threw itself down from the sky and splashed where it landed. It was rain that meant business, and currently its business was turning the garden into a muddy, wet, soup. ... Tl;dr - A delightful, very creepy and haunting story that will have both adults and children turning on the nightlights after darkness falls. A great, smart heroine who takes the initiative and acts with purpose. Highly recommended. P.S. I wonder if the 'other mother' in this book was called The Beldam after La belle dame sans merci. *shrug* Something to ponder. P.P.S. Thanks, Chrissie, for this cool link of people reading Coraline! http://mousecircus.com/coraline-video... ...more Embracing the wonderment of riddles, a man's imagination invariably caresses the prolonged silence, the engulfing darkness. The skin may shrivel with age, yet his boundless thoughts proudly soar for nights beyond reckoning. Coraline is such a ravishingly imaginative tale of a brave girl confronting ghastly demons. Opening new doors, she crafts an alternate house of monstrous reality, of fear draping the walls, of greed burying love. In the attempt of wrestling with adversity, with pale figures, Embracing the wonderment of riddles, a man's imagination invariably caresses the prolonged silence, the engulfing darkness. The skin may shrivel with age, yet his boundless thoughts proudly soar for nights beyond reckoning. Coraline is such a ravishingly imaginative tale of a brave girl confronting ghastly demons. Opening new doors, she crafts an alternate house of monstrous reality, of fear draping the walls, of greed burying love. In the attempt of wrestling with adversity, with pale figures, she strives to redefine her rusty, curious world. It is astonishing just how much of what we are can be tied to the beds we wake up in in the morning, and it is astonishing how fragile that can be. Coraline entrancingly reflects the woeful fears and trials all children experience. The power of evil and the contrasting innocence breathe life into the vivid pages. Dissatisfied with the specific, given role, Coraline revolts against both societal norms and authority. Her innate sense of adventure survives the distressingly horrifying atmosphere. Neil Gaiman's breath taking imagination encircles our limitless past and closes the gap between years. His effective prose acknowledges no boundaries or obstacles. Devouring the book with relish, I shivered like a dead leaf caught in the howling storm and regained life a moment later in a beam of the sunlight. Coraline evocatively stunned my heart and it thumped in my chest restlessly for hours. I don't remember laughing so ecstatically in years! ...more I've been looking for that book that would satisfy my craving to be creeped out, and sadly a few books I tried recently didn't do it for me. I didn't expect anything with this book, and that little shiver down my spine that has been evading me? This book gave it to me! I was not a huge fan of American Gods , but I promised that I would give Neil Gaiman another shot someday. I figured if I enjoyed anything of his it would be this book. Despite my gripes with American Gods I couldn't deny that I fou I've been looking for that book that would satisfy my craving to be creeped out, and sadly a few books I tried recently didn't do it for me. I didn't expect anything with this book, and that little shiver down my spine that has been evading me? This book gave it to me! I was not a huge fan of American Gods , but I promised that I would give Neil Gaiman another shot someday. I figured if I enjoyed anything of his it would be this book. Despite my gripes with American Gods I couldn't deny that I found Gaiman to be a great storyteller. This book definitely confirms that I was right about that. Coraline is a young girl who loves to explore and finds a locked door in her house. Her mother shows her that there is nothing there by unlocking the door and revealing a brick wall behind the door. However, a while later she tries to open the door again and enters a mysterious passageway that leads her to another house that looks like her own house. She meets a woman who refers to herself as Coraline's \"other mother\". When she returns home from this alternate world she realizes that her parents are gone and she must rescue them. Coraline is tempted into this new world where everything seems better. At her real home she is fighting the computer for her father's attention. She has to choose where to stay, and which life she really wants. This book is only 99 pages on the Nook so I don't really want to give too much away. It's a very quick, but chilling read in my opinion. I loved the dialog between Coraline and all of the other characters, particularly the cat. The creepy graphics added to the eeriness of this book. I feel like this could be a fun book to read with my son around Halloween. I also love how smart Coraline was in the end. She really learned the age old lesson about the grass always being greener. Love this quote: \u201cI don't want whatever I want. Nobody does. Not really. What kind of fun would it be if I just got everything I ever wanted just like that, and it didn't mean anything? What then?\u201d Such a wise thing to think coming from a young girl. I don't think Coraline's actual age is ever revealed in this book, but either way she's young enough to make that an impressive statement. I really liked this book, and would recommend it. It's short, cute, fun, and creepy. Don't get me wrong. This book wasn't terrifying or anything like that, but for a children's book I was impressed with how much I actually felt scared for Coraline being all alone in this strange world. ...more Deliciously disturbing, a modern fairytale with a surrealistic feel. I mean you\u2019re stuck in an alternate dimension with parents with sewed on buttons for eyes, friendless except for a talking cat with a bad attitude. Coraline is totally believable; a bored sweet kid who gets herself into and out of a terrifying situation by being gutsy & resourceful. So unless you figure you\u2019ve outgrown fairytales (which is kind of a shame) what\u2019s not to like about it? Nasty flu & a crummy day at work had Deliciously disturbing, a modern fairytale with a surrealistic feel. I mean you\u2019re stuck in an alternate dimension with parents with sewed on buttons for eyes, friendless except for a talking cat with a bad attitude. Coraline is totally believable; a bored sweet kid who gets herself into and out of a terrifying situation by being gutsy & resourceful. So unless you figure you\u2019ve outgrown fairytales (which is kind of a shame) what\u2019s not to like about it? Nasty flu & a crummy day at work had me pretty well pissed off at the world. Crawled into bed early in a definite funk, figured I\u2019d try a few pages of this little novella. Riveted I read it cover to cover. Snuggled under a pile of blankets, suitable ambience provided by a fierce rainstorm slashing at my windowpane I felt like I was ten again. Bliss. Finished in a couple of hours,when I drifted off to sleep I was feeling almost human. Sometimes a good story cures all that ails ya:) I\u2019m a Gaiman fan so take this with a grain of salt. People tend to disdain contemporary novels so give it another 50 years. I\u2019m betting this will earn its place among classics like Hansel & Gretel, Alice In Wonderland & Pinocchio. Okay, maybe I'm stretching it with Pinocchio\u2026 For the genre of creepy fairytales 4 \u00bd stars. ________________________________________ \u201cShe stepped out of the way as the thing clicked and scuttled past her and out of the house, running crablike on its too-many tapping, clicking, scurrying feet. She knew what it was, and she knew what it was after. Five-footed, crimson-nailed, the color of bone.\u201d ...more This was so creepy, I loved it. Full review to come. Creepy, creepy, creepy. This book made me feel like I'd just awoken from a disturbing dream I couldn't shake, but couldn't quite remember, either. And the movie looks terrifying. Neil Gaiman, Coraline (Harper, 2002) I'm not exactly sure what to say about this minor gem. It's a kids' book, but not really a kids' book. It's a fantasy/horror novel, but not a fantasy/horror novel. It has minor similarities to about a hundred books to be found over the ages, both children's and adult, but nothing strong enough to be called an influence (at least, not one that wears its heart on its sleeve). About the best thing I can come up with would be a much darker version of Roald Dahl's Neil Gaiman, Coraline (Harper, 2002) I'm not exactly sure what to say about this minor gem. It's a kids' book, but not really a kids' book. It's a fantasy/horror novel, but not a fantasy/horror novel. It has minor similarities to about a hundred books to be found over the ages, both children's and adult, but nothing strong enough to be called an influence (at least, not one that wears its heart on its sleeve). About the best thing I can come up with would be a much darker version of Roald Dahl's Matilda with a leavening of The Secret Garden, a touch or two of Neverwhere, and a dash of Wendy Walker's The Secret Service just for flair. And a large number of flavors running underneath you will sense but not really be able to put your finger on. Coraline is a girl who's pretty much bored with the way things are. While exploring, she discovers that a door in the drawing room, behind which has always been a wall of bricks, now has a tunnel to what she assumes is the flat on the other side. But when she goes through, she finds a weird alternate universe where her parents have buttons for eyes, things are interesting, and the world ends beyond the garden... Gaiman mentions in an interview after the book (found only in the ebook edition) that Coraline is usually seen by children as an adventure story, by adults as a horror novel. Both are correct, of course. It is a lovely rendition of both, told in an almost classical children's-book style (consider the diction in older children's books, from the depression or before, and then consider Coraline) but without ever talking down to its target audience. Coraline is a wonderfully well-drawn character, as are most of the book's creations. There is a great deal to enjoy here; this is easily Gaiman's best aside from American Gods. If you've been avoiding it because you thought it was a kids' book, think again. **** ...more Jedna od najdra\u017eih \u010ditala\u010dkih uspomena iz detinjstva mi je Alisa u zemlji \u010duda, a i jedna od najstra\u0161nijih, da budem iskrena. Mislim da sam prvu no\u0107nu moru u vezi sa nekom knjigom imala ba\u0161 posle \u010ditanja Alise. Sada se ve\u0107 slabo se\u0107am sna, ali znam da je u njemu bilo i rupe, i zeca, i one stra\u0161ne Kraljice... Poprili\u010dno godina kasnije u\u017eivala sam u mra\u010dnoj avanturi jedne druge devoj\u010dice. Po\u0161to sam sada starija, zrelija (mada se mnogi ne bi slo\u017eili sa tim) i hrabrija, ovaj put su no\u0107ne more izostal Jedna od najdra\u017eih \u010ditala\u010dkih uspomena iz detinjstva mi je Alisa u zemlji \u010duda, a i jedna od najstra\u0161nijih, da budem iskrena. Mislim da sam prvu no\u0107nu moru u vezi sa nekom knjigom imala ba\u0161 posle \u010ditanja Alise. Sada se ve\u0107 slabo se\u0107am sna, ali znam da je u njemu bilo i rupe, i zeca, i one stra\u0161ne Kraljice... Poprili\u010dno godina kasnije u\u017eivala sam u mra\u010dnoj avanturi jedne druge devoj\u010dice. Po\u0161to sam sada starija, zrelija (mada se mnogi ne bi slo\u017eili sa tim) i hrabrija, ovaj put su no\u0107ne more izostale, ali je do\u017eivljaj bio skoro podjednako upe\u010datljiv. Ka\u017eem \"skoro podjednako\" jer Alisa je ipak prva ljubav, a Koralina kao lepo vaspitana devoj\u010dica mora da zna gde joj mesto i da po\u0161tuje starije :) U svakom slu\u010daju, Koralina je jo\u0161 jedna divna bajka za malo stariju decu i odrasle iz bu\u0111elara Nila Gejmana. Verujete mi na re\u010d, \u010dak i vo\u017enja tramvajem u hladno oktobarsko jutro mo\u017ee da se pretvori u jednu uzbudljivu avanturu, ako u rukama imate pravog saputnika. ...more Review also posted here 4.5 out of 5 stars I had watched the movie Coraline 4 years ago but I never knew it was originally a book until earlier this year. Yeah, I know, it\u2019s shameful, but what can we do? Anyway, since I liked the movie, I told myself I was gonna love the book too, thus I added it to my TBR. I had forgotten about it until my recent post about quiet and jumpy horror. I wasn\u2019t sure what books to use for the quiet category, so I asked Evelyn and she mentioned this. Obviously, my intri Review also posted here 4.5 out of 5 stars I had watched the movie Coraline 4 years ago but I never knew it was originally a book until earlier this year. Yeah, I know, it\u2019s shameful, but what can we do? Anyway, since I liked the movie, I told myself I was gonna love the book too, thus I added it to my TBR. I had forgotten about it until my recent post about quiet and jumpy horror. I wasn\u2019t sure what books to use for the quiet category, so I asked Evelyn and she mentioned this. Obviously, my intrigue was gonna wake up again. And it did, in fact. One week later, I started this book. For those of you who don\u2019t know the story, I\u2019ll tell you a brief synopsis: There\u2019s a girl who feels her parents ignore her and she desires they pay more attention to her, she finds a secret door that leads to a place that\u2019s identical to her home, with replicas of all the people who live there, but this place seems\u2026better. It\u2019s more fun and she can do all she wants. The difference is everyone here has buttons for eyes, and Coraline\u2019s mother wants her for herself, so things start to get bad. The first thing you will notice about this book is its eerie atmosphere. Evelyn was right when she classified it as quiet horror. It\u2019s creepy, but it\u2019s more of those that slowly escalate on you until you\u2019re terrified. Coraline herself is a great character. She\u2019s brave, adventurous and astute. She actually felt her age (around 12 yo) \u2013 not too naive and not too mature. She was intelligent, and she was not easily fooled. \u201cBecause,\u201d she said, \u201cwhen you\u2019re scared but you still do it anyway, that\u2019s brave.\u201d The cat was another great character. He was so snarky. I was so surprised about the fact that I found myself liking him, because as you well know, I despise cats, but I couldn\u2019t hate him. When reading horror books, there\u2019s a phrase that\u2019s used all the time. This line is: \u201cThis book gave me nightmares.\u201d More often than not, this is an exageration, but when I say this book scared me more than any Stephen King book ever had, I am not lying to you \u2013 it really did. Who likes people with button eyes that eat bettles and disfigurate, huh? It\u2019s interesting to notice too what Neil Gaiman said in a note at the end of the book: I learned when people began to read it, that children experienced as an adventure, but which gave adults nightmares. I\u2019ve been wondering why that happens. Can it be that children see it as a quest for Coraline to save herself and her parents from the clutches of her evil other mother but adults or mature readers as a story in which the figures who are supposed to make us feel safe are so corrupted they scare? Or is it something else entirely? The illustrations were another point in the book\u2019s favour. They captured perfectly the creepiness and they accompanied the best scenes. For example, look at this work: Some goosebumps it gives you, right? Anyway, I\u2019m glad I finally read this book, and I can\u2019t wait to read more macabre things by Neil Gaiman. Now I\u2019ll go sew my eyes shut take better care of myself and be wary of rats and spiders . ___________________________________________ Pre-review (October 21, 2015) Such a great book. I'm wondering whether I should rate it 4 or 5 stars. It was creepy and there's no way I'll get over some of the illustrations. I want more Neil Gaiman NOW. RTC. ...more \u201cFairy tales are more than true: not because they tell us that dragons exist, but because they tell us that dragons can be beaten.\u201d This was dark and witty and theatrical and Gothic and utterly utterly adorable. It was sometimes hard to remember that this was aimed at a younger audience as the beauty of the writing and the dark turns of the plot completely enveloped me. This is my first Neil Gaiman but I know it won't be the last! Instant fan! this book makes me really cross i missed the 3d movie when it was out. there are definitely things i would have loved to have seen all up in my face. i think if i had read this as a young girl, it would be one of my favorite books ever. as a (physical) adult, i enjoyed it, but ive read too much in my life to be scared of it, or surprised by it, which is a shame. im going to turn this review into a request for people to scare me. when i was little, my brother would hide under my bed until after i this book makes me really cross i missed the 3d movie when it was out. there are definitely things i would have loved to have seen all up in my face. i think if i had read this as a young girl, it would be one of my favorite books ever. as a (physical) adult, i enjoyed it, but ive read too much in my life to be scared of it, or surprised by it, which is a shame. im going to turn this review into a request for people to scare me. when i was little, my brother would hide under my bed until after i was just drifting off to sleep, and then jump out to scare me. it worked. when i was a little older, and he was babysitting me, he would rent the scariest movies and make me watch them with him. he never really liked me. so but now it is rare for me to get scared. and i want to be scared. the last book to scare me was when i was about 8 or 9 and i was going on a car drive with family, and someone had left a stephen king book on the floor of the car, and i ran out of my own books so i picked it up and read that boogeyman story. didnt sleep for months. thats what i want. a book, a movie, i dont care. someone scare me. (just dont hide under my bed - lets stick to books or movies, yeah?)this will be my preparation for halloween mental gathering. ...more Una grata sorpresa. Le hab\u00eda hecho el quite a este libro desde hace mucho tiempo porque la pel\u00edcula me hab\u00eda desagradado enormemente, aunque m\u00e1s por el estilo de animaci\u00f3n que por el argumento. Si bien est\u00e1 descrito como un libro infantil, jam\u00e1s lo recomendar\u00eda para ni\u00f1os; la atm\u00f3sfera que crea Neil Gaiman para su historia es agobiante y muy inquietante, con descripciones que m\u00e1s bien son de pesadilla (no quise ni imaginarme \u201cal otro padre\u201d o a \u201clas otras se\u00f1oritas de primer piso\u201d en las \u00faltimas Una grata sorpresa. Le hab\u00eda hecho el quite a este libro desde hace mucho tiempo porque la pel\u00edcula me hab\u00eda desagradado enormemente, aunque m\u00e1s por el estilo de animaci\u00f3n que por el argumento. Si bien est\u00e1 descrito como un libro infantil, jam\u00e1s lo recomendar\u00eda para ni\u00f1os; la atm\u00f3sfera que crea Neil Gaiman para su historia es agobiante y muy inquietante, con descripciones que m\u00e1s bien son de pesadilla (no quise ni imaginarme \u201cal otro padre\u201d o a \u201clas otras se\u00f1oritas de primer piso\u201d en las \u00faltimas partes del libro). Por su parte, Coraline Jones es toda una hero\u00edna, que no se deja embaucar, leal a su familia, capaz de enfrentar sus propios miedos y de una fortaleza, inteligencia y astucia que la hacen salir airosa de su aventura. Me gust\u00f3 mucho su caracterizaci\u00f3n. ...more \u201cFairy tales are more than true: not because they tell us that dragons exist, but because they tell us that dragons can be beaten.\u201d It may seem uninspired to start this review with one of the most famous quotes of the novel, but after all, it does accentuate so well what \"Coraline\" signifies. Presenting an account of a brave soul confronted with the terrors and fears of childhood fantasies becoming true, Neil Gaiman allows us to get involved with his protagonist, a young girl called Coraline \u201cFairy tales are more than true: not because they tell us that dragons exist, but because they tell us that dragons can be beaten.\u201d It may seem uninspired to start this review with one of the most famous quotes of the novel, but after all, it does accentuate so well what \"Coraline\" signifies. Presenting an account of a brave soul confronted with the terrors and fears of childhood fantasies becoming true, Neil Gaiman allows us to get involved with his protagonist, a young girl called Coraline, who is anything but fearsome and shy. But most importantly, Coraline is, if you take into account her young age, wise above the standards of her age: \u201cI don't want whatever I want. Nobody does. Not really. What kind of fun would it be if I just got everything I ever wanted just like that, and it didn't mean anything? What then?\u201d Coraline captured what today's society fails to teach their children: that contentment does not necessarily mean getting all the things you long to have. Her story is a stirring and horrifying one, but also one which opens the eyes for the dangers of longing for something without taking into account how the consequences might be like. In the beginning of this book, Coraline is bored by her entire life, wishing for excitement and adventures to enter her life. When she finds a mysterious door, our protagonist, adventurous as any of our childhood heroes, can't resist to step through it ... and lands in her own house again. Everything seems to be the same ... except it isn't. Her parents seem to be the same ... except they aren't. Coraline seems to be home again ... except she isn't. As soon as you realize that Coraline's parents are wearing buttons instead of eyes, the true horror of the story begins to emerge and drags you along with Coraline into the story and on a twisty ride. This story teaches to behave bravely in a world where being cowardly might cost your life. Neil Gaiman teaches to embrace the things we love and be content with having them rather than wishing for more. And even more, he delivers a story with entertaining and thought-provoking elements alike, combining the genres Fantasy and Horror and allowing those two to encounter each other above the head of young Coraline. The characterizations are top-notch; when do you ever find a book where a cat turns out to become a favorite of yours? (At least it did become a favorite of mine, but so did Coraline herself.) During the course of not even 200 pages, Neil Gaiman incorporates well-known and frequently used themes like stepping through doors into an alternate world, and he did it so well. Some minor flaws aside, \"Coraline\" has so far been my favorite Gaiman novel, and it makes me anticipate his other works even more - if only for the profound quotes which can be discovered throughout the course of your reading experience. \u201cWhat's your name,' Coraline asked the cat. 'Look, I'm Coraline. Okay?' 'Cats don't have names,' it said. 'No?' said Coraline. 'No,' said the cat. 'Now you people have names. That's because you don't know who you are. We know who we are, so we don't need names.\u201d The cat wrinkled its nose and managed to look unimpressed. \"Calling cats,\" it confided, \"tends to be a rather overrated activity. Might as well call a whirlwind.\" \"But how can you walk away from something and still come back to it?\" \"Because,\" she said, \"when you're scared but you still do it anyway, that's brave.\" 4.5 stars, embedded in a wholehearted recommendation to read this book. ...more MY FIRST BOOK OF THE YEAR! And I can't decide if I want to do THIS OR THIS Like NO. RATS ARE NOT FOR JOKING STUFFS! EWW. Though it kind of was. Anyhow, I am seriously in love with Neil Gaiman and his creepy, crafty brain. Like sometimes I just sit and wonder, how do authors come up with these things. This story was short and simple but lingering. In Coraline's(\"not Caroline's\") new house, there are exactly 14 doors. Coraline knows this because she loves to explore. How many blue things, how many win MY FIRST BOOK OF THE YEAR! And I can't decide if I want to do THIS OR THIS Like NO. RATS ARE NOT FOR JOKING STUFFS! EWW. Though it kind of was. Anyhow, I am seriously in love with Neil Gaiman and his creepy, crafty brain. Like sometimes I just sit and wonder, how do authors come up with these things. This story was short and simple but lingering. In Coraline's(\"not Caroline's\") new house, there are exactly 14 doors. Coraline knows this because she loves to explore. How many blue things, how many windows has Coraline's house got? Coraline knows that and more. All 13 doors open into rooms, one into nothing but a brick wall. Or maybe not. Coraline loves to explore and Coraline finds out \"not\". There's something on the other side of that door and Coraline will find out what. ONE WORD. SINISTER. ...more There's something about the way Neil Gaiman writes that appeals to me greatly. He doesn't WASTE words. No flowery, adjective laden descriptions or ridiculous cliches. And yet, I never feel cheated. He'll often move a character from one place or situation to the next, and if you're new to him or have been reading someone else you might think for a second \"That was abrupt\", but he does it well and it serves the story. More importantly, Coraline is an engrossing tale. Firstly, while Coraline the cha There's something about the way Neil Gaiman writes that appeals to me greatly. He doesn't WASTE words. No flowery, adjective laden descriptions or ridiculous cliches. And yet, I never feel cheated. He'll often move a character from one place or situation to the next, and if you're new to him or have been reading someone else you might think for a second \"That was abrupt\", but he does it well and it serves the story. More importantly, Coraline is an engrossing tale. Firstly, while Coraline the character isn't particularly warm or cute, she's smart, inquisitive, polite... you feel bad for her in the boring life she's so unsatisfied with, and in the journey she takes from there. And she's brave, while still admitting her fears and insecurities. And all of this is done without wasting words and while maintaining a reading level that kids could follow. The best part about Coraline is the fun, interesting, vivid story. Neil Gaiman creates an imaginary world here that still feels like it could exist. He doesn't explain away the differences between the book's world and ours with magic or science; his fantasy world exists in or world, and it doesn't feel like it couldn't or shouldn't. And what a world it is. \"Other\" parents in a house just like yours but better (and far worse) in the subtlest of ways. Keys, mists, a talking cat and ghosts... all done with a class and timelessness that others in the genre (that I'm familiar with anyway) have failed to pull off (but not to attempt). It also seems like Coraline is just begging to be read aloud. Plenty of other books are this way too, but it's obvious that Gaiman knows how to write a story that kids and parents will enjoy cuddling up together with. ...more [9/10] \"I don't think you can be too old for Coraline.\" To my great delight I discovered this little gem of a story just as I'm about to turn 50, and my enjoyment is I believe proof enough that I haven't turned yet into a cranky and bitter ogre. Neil Gaiman himself, in the afterword, declares his personal affection for the spunky young heroine of the tale: More than ten years ago I started to write a children's book. It was for my daughter, Holly, who was five years old. I wanted it to have a gi [9/10] \"I don't think you can be too old for Coraline.\" To my great delight I discovered this little gem of a story just as I'm about to turn 50, and my enjoyment is I believe proof enough that I haven't turned yet into a cranky and bitter ogre. Neil Gaiman himself, in the afterword, declares his personal affection for the spunky young heroine of the tale: More than ten years ago I started to write a children's book. It was for my daughter, Holly, who was five years old. I wanted it to have a girl as a heroine, and I wanted it to be refreshingly creepy. Mission accomplished. Like in the best tales of the brothers Grimm, Coraline is not about fluffy teddybears or cute orphaned ducklings, but about dark, scary monsters that try to eat you whole in a bite or two, it is about the persistence of evil and the need to stand up and fight against it. It is not a coincidence that the quote selected by Gaiman as an opening gambit is from G K Chesterton. Good fairy tales have important lessons to impart to the readers: \"Fairy tales are more than true: not because they tell us that dragons exist, but because they tell us that dragons can be beaten.\" Coraline has a 'dragon' to slay, and she has only herself to blame for the troubles she finds herself in. You see, she was restless, bored by a rainy day, in need of entertainment, looking for some adventure. And her parents were too busy to help her. \"What should I do?\" asked Coraline. \"Read a book\", said her mother. \"Watch a video. Play with your toys. Go and pester Miss Spink and Miss Forcible, or the crazy old man upstairs.\" \"No\", said Coraline. \"I don't want to do those things. I want to explore.\" \"I don't really mind what you do\", said Coraline's mother, \"as long as you don't make a mess.\" Her parents love her truly, but such a hyperactive kid can be trying when you have a deadline or three pots cooking on the stove. So she's left more or less to her own devices, and what she loves best is to go exploring. And the most enticing things are of course those that are forbidden, or locked - the mysteries, the secret places, the white spots on the maps of far distant lands. In her old house this means a locked door that leads to an unoccupied apartment in the same building. Neil Gaiman has used the plot device before, these portals that can be found in the most ordinary places: inside a cupboard, under the stairs, down a rabbit hole, inside a metro station, behind a gate in an ancient stone wall. They take you into a alternate reality existing side by side with the ordinary world (Neverwhere, Stardust, The Ocean At The End of the Lane) where old gods, unicorns, flying sailships, talking frogs and/or wizards roam freely. Coraline accidentaly on purpose steps through into such a world, apparently a copy of her real house and family where her every wish can be granted. But pretty soon, she discovers that the price she has to pay to have her fun is much to high, and she will need all her courage, and boldness and inventiveness if she wants to survive and to help the people she loves most dearly. With a little help from her friends (among them a wonderful sarcastic), she might prevail, but not before the reader is thoroughly scared. In a way, I am glad the author took his time with the story (more than ten years) because it really feels flawless, not a word out of place of unnecessary, all the secondary characters interesting and intriguing. The experience is enhanced by one of Neil Gaiman's long term collaborators, the artist Dave McKean who did most of the covers for Sandman: ... and the pictures are very creepy, and very odd and very true. He even went to the house I used to lived in Nutley, Sussex, and drew it. confides the author in the same interview at the end. I'm not a great fan of stop motion animation, but I am willing to give it one more chance in order to watch the movie version of the novella. In conclusion: Coraline is one of the greatest heroines in fantasy, even if she is \"a little small for her age\" , and she reminds me not only of Lewis Carrol's Alice, but also of my recent darling - the girl named September from Catherynne Valente's Fairyland books. Kindred spirits, they are all resourceful, intelligent, courageous and playful. I am grateful for being able to take part in their adventures. ...more This would be a perfect choice for a road trip with small children (maybe age seven and up or so). It\u2019s an incredibly imaginative, quirky adventure that\u2019s simple yet not excruciatingly so. I felt entertained throughout, and some of the dialogue had me laughing out loud. There\u2019s no question that this book is creeeeeepy but I\u2019m one of those people that believes kids can handle a lot more than watered down fluff books. Coraline is such a wonderful heroine: she\u2019s a clever, matter of fact, singular g This would be a perfect choice for a road trip with small children (maybe age seven and up or so). It\u2019s an incredibly imaginative, quirky adventure that\u2019s simple yet not excruciatingly so. I felt entertained throughout, and some of the dialogue had me laughing out loud. There\u2019s no question that this book is creeeeeepy but I\u2019m one of those people that believes kids can handle a lot more than watered down fluff books. Coraline is such a wonderful heroine: she\u2019s a clever, matter of fact, singular girl with an awesome fashion sense (Day-glo green gloves and yellow wellington boots that look like frogs? YES.) and a quiet determination to succeed even though no one takes her seriously. The stakes are high, the villain is completely unsettling and evil, and Coraline is alone, but she triumphs! It is very satisfying. Coraline (who everyone mistakenly calls Caroline) lives in a big old house, once a large estate, but now divided up into flats. Her parents are constantly unavailable and absorbed with boring work on their computers, except for when her Dad wants to try out a crazy recipe or her Mum wants to go shopping for boring school clothes. There\u2019s no one for her to play with except the eccentric Misses Spink and Forcible, former actresses, and the old man in the attic who claims to be the ring leader for a mouse circus. More than anything, Coraline wants something new, an adventure, even if it might be dangerous. \u201c On the first day Coraline's family moved in, Miss Spink and Miss Forcible made a point of telling Coraline how dangerous the well was, and they warned her to be sure she kept away from it. So Coraline set off to explore for it, so that she knew where it was, to keep away from it properly.\u201d This book is exceedingly quotable; the paperback is only one hundred sixty two pages, but there are three pages of quotes currently listed on goodreads. I particularly loved Coraline\u2019s conversations with the cat: \u201c What's your name,' Coraline asked the cat. 'Look, I'm Coraline. Okay?' 'Cats don't have names,' it said. 'No?' said Coraline. 'No,' said the cat. 'Now you people have names. That's because you don't know who you are. We know who we are, so we don't need names.\u201d Definitely another cat for the \u201cbest talking cats\u201d list. The writing is spare but still manages to be atmospheric and inventive. This quote is so simple, but it\u2019s one of my favorites: \u201c The sky had never seemed so sky; the world had never seemed so world.\" Finally, I have to mention that this audiobook is narrated by the author and he does an AMAZING job. If I could have one person narrate my life, it would be Neil Gaiman. Perfect Musical Pairing The Rat\u2019s Song This is the audiobook version of the Rat\u2019s Song that Neil Gaiman wrote for the book. It appears in segments in the book, and in the audio version (as you\u2019ll see) it is chanted in eerie, echoing verses. I listened to this while walking through heavy fog right before sunrise and it was CREEPY. Enjoy! Try not to have too many nightmares. Also seen on The Readventurer . ...more It was okay. I wanted to love this book, but I don't feel the connection with the characters. Foi t\u00e3o bom ouvir o audiobook deste livro porque o narrador \u00e9 o pr\u00f3prio Neil Gaiman e ficou fant\u00e1stico! Falo mais da experi\u00eancia no v\u00eddeo de leituras do m\u00eas :D I actually picked up a signed copy at a local shop when Gaiman and I were both living in Minnesota. I've read a lot of Gaiman, and while appreciate that he is always a conscious, active writer, his stories sometimes fall flat for me. They always work on the principle of a small person trapped in a large, unknown world. There are plenty of great examples of this story type, and Gaiman has been steadily working through them. He took inspiration from Fairy Tales in Stardust, from European myth in A I actually picked up a signed copy at a local shop when Gaiman and I were both living in Minnesota. I've read a lot of Gaiman, and while appreciate that he is always a conscious, active writer, his stories sometimes fall flat for me. They always work on the principle of a small person trapped in a large, unknown world. There are plenty of great examples of this story type, and Gaiman has been steadily working through them. He took inspiration from Fairy Tales in Stardust, from European myth in American Gods, and African myth in Anansi Boys. Though Morpheus was no small man, the individual story arcs dealt with normal folks. Sandman and Good Omens worked off of Christian mythos, while Neverwhere created myths from modern symbols. If Neverwhere is a rewrite of Alice in Wonderland, Coraline is in some ways an even closer take on Carroll, except that here, Gaiman is exploring a more overtly frightening world, evoking Gothic ghost stories. Unlike his other stories, Gaiman has less to draw on here. He is not bringing in specific myths, but rather creating his own symbols. Since he is not bringing in the many and varied elements that mark most of his tales, Coraline sets a much barer stage. When he does bring in mythological elements, he always put his own spin on them, so he cannot be faulted for a lack of creative force. Indeed, he is at his most engaging when he is exploring and subverting various world mythologies, of which he is well-versed. Even in the less mythologized Neverwhere, he drew on the visual imagery and history of London itself, a great city which traces its roots from before Rome, and is not without its own legends. By eschewing any particular tradition in Coraline, Gaiman has little to play with. He has nothing to subvert, nothing to vaguely reference. He cannot play upon our expectations. All this tracks back to the reason that Gaiman explores these mythologies in the first place: his interest in writing about storytelling itself. Each time he writes, he places himself in a tradition, recognizing how the ancients used myth and symbol to create stories that instruct, inspire, and surprise. Coraline does not explore its own origins. It does not display the genre savvy play of Gaiman's other work. It is not an exploration of the ghost story, nor of 'Through the Looking-Glass'. It is not a deconstruction of the Gothic. It is a simple little tale, and not without its charm. I found little frightening about it, simply because there was little that was either unexpected or psychologically gripping. The most interesting element was the way he played with how we learn about identity. There is a point in childhood when we suspect that there us something that makes up identity beyond simply the appearance or form. The idea that a parent or friend could be replaced by a doppelganger is inherently terrifying. However, Gaiman does not produce a new twist on doppelgangers or changelings. Neither did the portrayal utilize surprise or subtlety to develop an unsettling mood. Rather, he presented overtly frightening or alien elements, bolstered by the characters' reactions. But it's not frightening to simply show scary things. Hearing a strange noise in the woods is not the same as being told that a character hears a strange noise in the woods. It only becomes frightening when the vividness of the description or the realism of the character's psychology allows us to tap into that sense of fear. This little story could have made a passable entry in a horror story collection, but is not original enough to stand on its own. I found this rather odd, since Gaiman is entirely capable of creating frightening stories, as evidenced by the fairy tale rewrite 'Snow, Glass, Apples' (from 'Smoke and Mirrors'). He has been frightening, disturbing, and unusual elsewhere, but here, I found little to speak of his creative flair. ...more SO glad I got the chance to read this, even if it was for a lame school assignment. I need to pick up more books by Neil Gaiman, he's such a fantastic writer. This story was both whimsical and dark and I had such a time reading it! I absolutely adore pre teen narrators. I love seeing their worlds from their POV. No melodrama, no hesitation, no wistful thinking about the hot guy/girl, no inner monologue and most importantly no gray shades. I am not saying that those are bad aspects of a story and that I don\u2019t enjoy them (except perhaps the continuous yakking about how handsome the new guy is). Still, books from the preteen perspective always prove to be a refreshing experience. A Relaxing yet fun experience, just like this I absolutely adore pre teen narrators. I love seeing their worlds from their POV. No melodrama, no hesitation, no wistful thinking about the hot guy/girl, no inner monologue and most importantly no gray shades. I am not saying that those are bad aspects of a story and that I don\u2019t enjoy them (except perhaps the continuous yakking about how handsome the new guy is). Still, books from the preteen perspective always prove to be a refreshing experience. A Relaxing yet fun experience, just like this book was. Flavia De Luce will always remain my favorite preteen, but Coraline definitely gets the second spot. She is different, loves exploring, wants to wear rainbow colored gloves to school and hates it when people get her name wrong (they call her Caroline, how boring!). Her parents are always glued to the computer, making poor Coraline feel lonely and bored. She also has very interesting neighbors, like the actresses below with their dozens of dogs, or he mad man upstairs trying to train rats to dance and sing. On one fateful rainy day, poor Coraline is confined to her house by her mother. So our little explorer decides to explore the house and comes across this peculiar door opening to \u2026.nothing but a brick wall. Unfortunately, (fortunate for us) there is more to it than that. The tiny door in her house sometimes leads her to a place exactly like her original house, only it\u2019s perfect. It also has her parents, and they are perfect too, with her mother making delicious food and her father spending quality time with her. Something is amiss though, they have buttons sewed instead of eyes and calls themselves Coraline\u2019s \u201cother mother \u201cand \u201cother father\u201d. Soon, Coraline realizes that she has chosen an adventure which is darker and more sinister than she earlier imagined. Along with being an awesome adventure, the book focuses on Coraline\u2019s personality development through the novel. She doesn\u2019t gets all mature and serious (God gracious no! how dreadful would that be!) but finds courage and wisdom within her which she didn\u2019t know existed. She uses her wit to save herself and her parents, takes steps which are very hard for her and gives us some memorable quotes like these: \u201cI don't want whatever I want. Nobody does. Not really. What kind of fun would it be if I just got everything I ever wanted just like that, and it didn't mean anything? What then?\u201d And \u201cBecause,' she said, 'when you're scared but you still do it anyway, that's brave\u201d i> Also, some other interesting characters come along. Like, the cat (cat\u2019s don\u2019t have a name you see); now if only cats were so witty in real life, and could talk :(. There are also her neighbors, and the ancient souls. On a whole, this book felt like a modern version of Alice in the Wonderland. It was jolly fun. An extra charm was added to this already amazing book by Neil Gaiman\u2019s voice *deep sigh*. I swear I can listen to the man all day long, even if all he said was yada yada. He doesn\u2019t, hopefully, and is the best narrator anyone can ever hope for. so sparking 4.5 stars from me, and an extra unwanted advice of listening to the audio book version. :D ...more Coraline is my second Neil Gaiman book. Fortunately, the Milk was my first and it didn't impress me much. But this book! I love it. It made me feel many things: frustration, hope, chills etc. I felt like a kid again, listening to a fairy tale. Meet Coraline. She's a girl who feels a little ignored by her parents and seems to have nothing much to do, but just go exploring . She soon finds a door that takes her in a wonderful world where her Other Parents live. They look exactly the same as hers, th Coraline is my second Neil Gaiman book. Fortunately, the Milk was my first and it didn't impress me much. But this book! I love it. It made me feel many things: frustration, hope, chills etc. I felt like a kid again, listening to a fairy tale. Meet Coraline. She's a girl who feels a little ignored by her parents and seems to have nothing much to do, but just go exploring . She soon finds a door that takes her in a wonderful world where her Other Parents live. They look exactly the same as hers, the only difference being that they have buttons where their eyes should be. The Other Mother is charming, caring and an amazing cook (unlike her real mother - it's her father that does all the cooking). Coraline is asked to stay in this fantasy world. But there's a catch. She has to accept buttons being sewn in place of her eyes. And this is when the nightmare really begins. I am intrigued with the horror part of the story. I'm not sure how it would affect a child. The whole idea of sewing buttons for eyes on a human gives me the creeps. Ewww! After reading the book, I had to see the animation film, too. There are some differences, but I enjoyed them both. Bottom line is you should read this book (I think it's about time I read a grown up Neil Gaiman book, too). ...more", "Title": "Coraline"},
