{"Comments": "there is that old adage that a good book will tell you how to read it. and i have no idea to whom that should be attributed, only that my undergrad professors seemed to have been born to quote that thought endlessly: in my gothic lit class,<---M> my enlightenment class</---M>, my victorian lit class... the african and irish lit professors mostly kept their mouths shut on the subject. but the rest - hoo boy - did they love to drag that old chestnut out... and it makes sense, to a certain degree. but this book there is that old adage that a good book will tell you how to read it. and i have no idea to whom that should be attributed, only that my undergrad professors seemed to have been born to quote that thought endlessly: in my gothic lit class, my enlightenment class, my victorian lit class... the african and irish lit professors mostly kept their mouths shut on the subject. but the rest - hoo boy - did they love to drag that old chestnut out... and it makes sense, to a certain degree. but this book doesn't tell you how to read it so much as it presents itself to the reader, like a fat man in a speedo lolling around on an undersized towel saying, \"look at me ladies, you like it?? this is what you get!!\" it almost demands that you read it and like it.<---F> but i was disobedient</---F>. every sentence, every paragraph, seemed to be trying to contain multitudes. and i am a fan of \"thick\" writing, but the manner in which this book presented itself quickly soured on me. there were too many stories or episodes ending with, \"years from now, when celia was on her deathbed, she would think back to her third year of marriage\",in a scene where she has yet to even be married, or right after two characters are introduced to each other, \"this would be the last time they would meet until the hailstorm of aught-six\" - and i am making up all the names and situations here, but you get an idea of the shape of my complaints. it's constant foreshadowing and some of the foreshadowing is just teasing, as the events never come to pass in the novel itself. it's like sitting down to tea with a god in his dotage, rambling and making connections only he can understand; seeing the past and future simultaneously. \"hey, karen, didn't you really like that kjaerstaad trilogy, where he basically did what you are complaining about here??\" yeah, what? so? shut up - isn't it past your bedtime?? yeah, but sure, that's true. but for some reason, it bothered me here. all i wanted was a straightforward linear narrative about a fascinating subject matter: free black men and women who owned slaves. when i read roll of thunder, hear my cry last summer, the whole transition period between slavery and freedom really excited my brainparts. i dunno. and mister jones was a real sweetheart when he came for the new yorker festival and i waited in line to get a book signed for a friend and i really wanted to like it because it seems like a nice fat sprawling sweeping story the way i like, but i just got lost in the names and the timeline and my confusion turned into apathy. it's like this guy you date who seems really perfect - he is smart and looks like gabriel byrne and he dotes on you and everything is fun and on paper it all looks great and you know you should really like him, but he just doesn't make you laugh so you run off and leave him for a rockstar. you know? because i feel like i should like this one because it is award-winning, and my experience with the african-american novel is middling (although i love the african novel, the west indian novel and the afro-canadian novel - go figure) so i feel like as someone who appreciates literature in general, i should totally love this. but it wasn't there for me. oh, chris wilson, i am sorry. now you are going to want full custody because your baby is being raised among heathens. years from now, when my and chris wilson's book-baby became the mayor of littleton, he would read this review and a tear of sorrow would come to his eye at my short-sightedness. ...more Manchester County, Virginia doesn't exist. Never has. After reading <+++>The Known World</+++>, however, you'd be forgiven if you thought you could take a tour of it's plantations and slave cemetaries on your vacation to colonial Williamsburg. The complicated pre-civil war Southern society that <---A>Edward P. Jones</---A> creates feels as real and surreal as any factual history of slavery you've read. It was not so much the story of Henry Townsend, a black slave owner, and all the people that his death allows us to me Manchester County, Virginia doesn't exist. Never has. After reading <+++>The Known World</+++>, however, you'd be forgiven if you thought you could take a tour of it's plantations and slave cemetaries on your vacation to colonial Williamsburg. The complicated pre-civil war Southern society that Edward P. Jones creates feels as real and surreal as any factual history of slavery you've read. It was not so much the story of Henry Townsend, a black slave owner, and all the people that his death allows us to meet that engaged me. It was the world, a world where I could taste the soil I might till and the women I might marry and the terrible choices I might be faced with, that put it's claws in me and refused to let go. It took me nearly 2 months to finish the book's 388 pages. It should've been a quick read. It is a fascinating place with peculiar problems and characters I cried for on more than one occasion. It should've been a quick read but I kept asking myself this question: who would I have been? The slave, toiling away in the field? The overseer, unable to see the world for what it truly was? The freed man, working desperately to free the rest of his family? The smart child, taken under the wing of the rich white slave owner and convinced that there was nothing wrong with owning another human being? The broken black man tortured by his family's wealth built on the backs of men and women that look just like me? The slave too proud, too strong, too powerful to let another take his freedom? Who would I have been? Who am I now? In matters of race, there is always that fool's point, usually made by a white person (though not always) that asks,\"why aren't you over it, already? Can't we just let it go?\" It is a way to end an uncomfortable conversation. The reasons don't matter. I know many a person for which the sticky tar baby of race in America is simply a discussion they can't stick their hands in. It is too difficult. Too raw. Too cloudy to be sure that people will remain friends after an honest chat. The way I feel when I read books like The Known World is my answer. No matter how well-adjusted, how integrated, how loving of my fellow man, how multiculti kumbayah I am, I'm not over it. I can't let it go. This fictional world was very real not all that long ago. It's effects still ripple through our every day. The world I know doesn't exist without it. Highly highly recommended. ...more I know this is a critically acclaimed book, a Pulitzer winner, and a book tackling a difficult and complex stain on America history: slavery and black slave owners. There are moments when the book does say some interesting things or reveal some unsavory and uncomfortable truths, but it was so hard to engage with as a reader. I mean, I hung in with DFW through the first 600 pages of Infinite Jest where nothing happens -- but because I was fascinated by Hal, Orin, Marathe, Steeply, and Mario and M I know this is a critically acclaimed book, a Pulitzer winner, and a book tackling a difficult and complex stain on America history: slavery and black slave owners. There are moments when the book does say some interesting things or reveal some unsavory and uncomfortable truths, but it was so hard to engage with as a reader. I mean, I hung in with DFW through the first 600 pages of Infinite Jest where nothing happens -- but because I was fascinated by Hal, Orin, Marathe, Steeply, and Mario and Madame Psychosis who all fascinated me. There were literally dozens of other characters but these all pulled me in. In The Known World, there are also dozens of characters but none that I grew any attachment too. It was as if the author Jones was using a hand-held camera and no stabilizer so that the images were jumpy and out of focus. It reminded me sometimes of how the world seems to my myopic eyes between taking off my glasses in the morning and putting in my contact lenses. The narration also highly annoyed me. All the parenthetical \"in 60 years so and so will do such as such\" were meaningless because I was given neither enough time nor enough detail to give a shit. Further, there is this reference to \"years later they would all turn into human torches in front of the dry foods store, but no mention afterwards of to what this referred. But the most annoying bit was in using the Canadian journalist frame at about page 130 or so (which then only briefly appears in the narrative 200 pages later in a parenthetical throwaway comment, it is said that the journalist would never marry his heart's desire yet 3 pages later, they marry and that coming to talk to Fern that there was some incomprehensible stuff that happens off-screen that morning (also never adequately explained) and so she was not going to open up to the journalist and yet we still find her filling in details about Henry, Moses and Caledonia 30 pages later. Too much inconsistency - was the editor asleep or stoned and missed these? So, despite taking on a complex subject, Jones is no Faulkner as his South does not eve approach that of the Great William. He is not as good as Pynchon or DFW is manipulating time and space in a narrative that was 100 or 150 pages too long and felt it, and he is not Alice Walker or Toni Morrison who brought us the most amazing, poignant, and powerful images of slavery and its residual impacts generations later that I have ever read. So, read Beloved or Absalom, Absalom if you want to hear about the South and I expect you will be less frustrated but every bit enraged at this deplorable institution that is a cancer on the American past. ...more Dear The Known World : I'll be blunt. I'm breaking things off. This just isn't working. It's not you; it's me. Well, maybe it's you, too, a bit. I really thought when we got together that we would have a brief but mutually satisfying relationship. I'd read you, you'd provide enlightenment or emotional catharsis or entertainment, maybe even all three. All the signs were there: the laudatory quotes on your jacket, a shocking and unexpected premise, high marks on goodreads. But something was just off Dear The Known World : I'll be blunt. I'm breaking things off. This just isn't working. It's not you; it's me. Well, maybe it's you, too, a bit. I really thought when we got together that we would have a brief but mutually satisfying relationship. I'd read you, you'd provide enlightenment or emotional catharsis or entertainment, maybe even all three. All the signs were there: the laudatory quotes on your jacket, a shocking and unexpected premise, high marks on goodreads. But something was just off by the end of the first chapter. Maybe it was the masturbation scene right at the start. Or the characters that I just couldn't get into - I could hardly tell some of them apart. Or the way the narrative seemed to skip all over without any focus. Maybe I just didn't give you enough pages. I'm sure you got better as you went along. I mean, look at all the four- and five-star reviews you've gotten! But every time I picked you up my thoughts turned to the three other books on my bedside table that I'd rather be reading. I haven't actually been unfaithful, but that's just not a healthy basis for a relationship. So after 72 pages, I'm putting you down. Don't feel too bad. Focus on all those other, good reviews and maybe we'll meet again someday when the stars all align just right. But probably not. Emily For more book reviews, come visit my blog, Build Enough Bookshelves . ...more In this book I learned that there used to be black slaveholders in the US. I thought that only white people were allowed to own slaves during the time that owning slaves were like owning properties. During that pre-Abolition time. During those sad dark days in the American history. Black Edward P. Jones (born 1951) wrote this historical epic novel, The Known World based on the not well known fact that there were some black slaveholders (black people owning black slaves) in the state of Virginia d In this book I learned that there used to be black slaveholders in the US. I thought that only white people were allowed to own slaves during the time that owning slaves were like owning properties. During that pre-Abolition time. During those sad dark days in the American history. Black Edward P. Jones (born 1951) wrote this historical epic novel, The Known World based on the not well known fact that there were some black slaveholders (black people owning black slaves) in the state of Virginia during the time in the US when owning slave is legal. Wikipedia has this to say: \"Slavery in the United States was a form of unfree labor which existed as a legal institution in North America for more than a century before the founding of the United States in 1776, and continued mostly in the South until the passage of the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1865.[1] The first English colony in North America, Virginia, first imported Africans in 1619, a practice earlier established in the Spanish colonies as early as the 1560s.[2] Most slaves were black and were held by whites, although some Native Americans and free blacks also held slaves; there were a small number of white slaves as well.[3]\" Winner of the 2004 Pulitzer Award for Fiction, The Known World is one of the most memorable reads I had this year. It is not an easy book to read. This 388-page novel left me with a heavy chest each time I closed the book. Each page is gloomy and sad. The novel is well-told with lyrical prose creating a big canvas of imagery in one's mind while reading. In that big canvas are memorable and three-dimensional numerous characters most of them black slaves. No character is downright bad or good. The detailed description of the sceneries of a fictional county called Manchester and the true depictions of the characters are exceptionally striking that I had to slow down in my reading to savor the story and hold on *tugging to them, cheering them on* to each characters. Reading the last page left me with a heavy heart. I would not want to let go of that image of Manchester and say goodbye Please don't go yet to the characters that I already became part of my literary world. The world that resides in the recesses of my brain. The world that is known only to me populated by people who I met only in my readings. In terms of writing, Jones extensively use the technique called prolepsis that I first encountered reading Muriel Sparks' The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie (1961). Jones explained this in the interview (appendix of the book) saying that he is the God of those characters so he knows what happened in the life of each characters from the time he/she was born up to the time his/her death. The most moving example of this use was with the character of the child Tessie . One fine day of September 1855, their mistress Caldonia saw the 5-y/o Tessie playing with a wooden toy horse. Caldonia says to the child: That is very nice, Tessie to which Tessie responded, My papa did this for me . In January 2002, on her deathbed, the old Tessie asked her caretaker to get the wooden toy horse from the attic. While holding the toy, she breathed her last saying the same thing: My papa did this for me . My heart stopped beating. Tears welled up in my eyes. That scene is just one of the many moving scenes about those slaves in that time of the history in Virginia when black people were traded like they were not human but properties. I can make this review very long. There are just too many good things I would like to say here but I am afraid that no review can make justice to a book as good as this. ...more I'm going to have to rave a bit, because this is one of the best books I've read in the past ten years. Jones packs in all the historical detail you could want, and of course he's hit on a subject--black slaveowners--that in and of itself is tabloid-sensational. Where lesser writers might lean too hard on the sensational aspect (or rely on it to bolster an otherwise weak narrative), Jones works it into a compelling and powerful story. What makes it so powerful is a mix of fascinating characters wh I'm going to have to rave a bit, because this is one of the best books I've read in the past ten years. Jones packs in all the historical detail you could want, and of course he's hit on a subject--black slaveowners--that in and of itself is tabloid-sensational. Where lesser writers might lean too hard on the sensational aspect (or rely on it to bolster an otherwise weak narrative), Jones works it into a compelling and powerful story. What makes it so powerful is a mix of fascinating characters who are woven into a series of overlapping plotlines. For me it's the structuring that is so brilliant (geek alert: I actually diagrammed the time shifts in the chapters as an exercise, to see when and how Jones yoked the whole thing together). This less than linear approach might be frustrating to those who just want things to be straightforward, but stick with it: the shifts provide suspense as well as texture, and they propel more than one storyline at once. They do all come together, trust me. I also admire the overarching authorial voice in the novel, which certainly leans toward the formal, but also comes across as aware of the history it's grappling with: here and there Jones projects his voice forward for a moment, or seemingly digresses with factual material and research. Again it's all part of the tapestry and the mix, and I also think that the level of narrative awareness (which never disengages long enough to derail anything) adds another layer to the very idea of history--making the whole historical and contemporary both. And for those of you who can do without all of the above writerly blather (a thousand pardons), you'll find in this book characters who are engaging, ignorant, cruel, earnest, sympathetic, tragic, hopeful, flawed--in short, complicated. Halfway through you'll be fighting off the impulse to skip ahead to learn everyone's fate. Finally, I'll say that this book isn't perfect--there are aspects of what I've described above that sometimes don't work: narrative turns that do seem pointless digressions, a character or two a bit stereotypical or annoying. No matter. This book aims high, as brilliant works of art do, and the result is nothing short of amazing. ...more There is probably an important and interesting story in here somewhere (for example, if it were actually about the widow of a black slave owner trying to run a plantation after her husband's death, as claimed on the book jacket). However, any plot that might exist was buried so deep beneath the convoluted chronology and extraneous characters and details that I decided I didn't care to keep digging for it, and quit on page 198. The author seemed determined to insert every existing anecdote about There is probably an important and interesting story in here somewhere (for example, if it were actually about the widow of a black slave owner trying to run a plantation after her husband's death, as claimed on the book jacket). However, any plot that might exist was buried so deep beneath the convoluted chronology and extraneous characters and details that I decided I didn't care to keep digging for it, and quit on page 198. The author seemed determined to insert every existing anecdote about slavery into one novel. This might have worked better as a compilation of essays or short stories. ...more Basically - a book about slavery in the South. I enjoy those kind of thing, especially The Secret Lives of Bees, but with this one, it felt like the book had no point. While I was reading, I kept on going \"what did I just read? Am I really reading/understanding this book?\" and kept on referring to the back cover of the book. No. The story was simply what I read. O.......K! Then ugh. I HATE leaving a book unread, so I kept on forcing myself to read thru the whole book. Finally the misery I was pu Basically - a book about slavery in the South. I enjoy those kind of thing, especially The Secret Lives of Bees, but with this one, it felt like the book had no point. While I was reading, I kept on going \"what did I just read? Am I really reading/understanding this book?\" and kept on referring to the back cover of the book. No. The story was simply what I read. O.......K! Then ugh. I HATE leaving a book unread, so I kept on forcing myself to read thru the whole book. Finally the misery I was putting myself through ended, and UGH! The storyline. The author kept on jumping around the timeline too much - and honestly - I would describe this book as a glimpse of the lives of slaves in the south, but with a blah storyline. However this book has won a pultizer prize. EH!? Anyone out there who has read this book? Your opinions?? However like always, we learn from books. What I got out of this book was a new knowledge I never came upon, that black people owned black slaves.They even buy their own family members, and the slaves were considered as properties, including family. Hmm... History is richier than we will ever know or think of. ...more 2.5-stars, really. here is a perfect example of a books i should love, and yet.... i didn't. the book was a lot of work and, for me, very little reward. i think most of my issues are because of the style/structure of the novel: * the third-person, omniscient narrator - this was distracting from very early on in the read. i held off judging it. i wanted to trust jones and his choice. * non-linear narrative - i don't tend to have problems with this at all, but i found it super-clunky here. also dist 2.5-stars, really. here is a perfect example of a books i should love, and yet.... i didn't. the book was a lot of work and, for me, very little reward. i think most of my issues are because of the style/structure of the novel: * the third-person, omniscient narrator - this was distracting from very early on in the read. i held off judging it. i wanted to trust jones and his choice. * non-linear narrative - i don't tend to have problems with this at all, but i found it super-clunky here. also distracting. * the made-up references - jones would cite sources and details that seemed to lend such an air of gravitas, but none of it is actually real. (i know, i know. this is fiction. a novel. get over it. but it was just kinda weird to me. social commentary inserted into fiction happens. steinbeck did it. teju cole does it. many writers do this. i felt like jones did a crap-ton of research for this book. but then i read this NPR piece . in it, he notes he collected 2 shelves worth of books on slavery... \"but never got around to reading them\" . so this just added to my 'what the?' on the references in the novel and jones' research.) * all of this combined for a really awkward flow, and convoluted storytelling. i felt like it could lose 50-100 pages and be a tighter, better story. in case you think maybe i am a lazy reader - i'm not, i swear! i love nothing more than a meaty, tough read. jones' story is definitely both of these things. he explores the issue of free black people owning slaves in virginia, and he gives us a large cast of active characters. but it all felt so... surface-y. we get the actions and reactions, but we don't really get the motivations or emotions. jones is navigating a morally dodgy landscape, one i would have loved to have gone into more deeply. we are given the horrors and the heartbreaks, but it all felt so detached. and, you know, maybe that is totally on purpose. maybe, for some people, detachment is the only way through such a horrible time in history. jones has collected some serious critical acclaim and recognition over his career. to name a few: he's won the pulitzer, the national book critic's circle award, the PEN/Hemingway award, a MacArthur genius grant, and the International IMPAC dublin literary award. he's won nearly $1 million in literary awards alone. the man knows what he's doing, and the respect he's earned is fairly universal. the known world is an important story. but is just shining the light on the issues jones raises enough? so now i am back to the should . i should love this book. (it was just okay for me.) people should read this book. (indeed. but this is not a book i will blanket recommend to all.) so, i don't know you guys. i am bummed over this one. and this is a terrible review/collection of thoughts. maybe i'll become more coherent with some distance and fix this up a bit - but for now i wanted to note down something here. (aside #1 (going to be a bit spoiler-y here): moses confused me. or, rather, his turn to all-of-a-sudden being an asshole was weird. we're going along with moses. he seems like a lovely man. then, halfway into the book, he's a wife-beater, jerkface? where did that come from, and why was he presented like that? the reveal of moses being a not nice man was sudden and odd.) (aside #2: worth noting (was hugely interesting to me) - the cover photo of this edition is \u00a9 Eudora Welty ! i had no idea about her photographic prowess .) ...more A very complex and beautiful, compelling book about Henry, a former slave who becomes a slave owner, & his wife Caldonia. But they're just the start - the book is really a series of stories & vignettes about the families, friends, neighbors & community surrounding Henry & Caldonia. It took me a really long time to get into the book, because there are so many characters, some important & some not, & the book jumps around in time, making it difficult to follow. Trust me, us A very complex and beautiful, compelling book about Henry, a former slave who becomes a slave owner, & his wife Caldonia. But they're just the start - the book is really a series of stories & vignettes about the families, friends, neighbors & community surrounding Henry & Caldonia. It took me a really long time to get into the book, because there are so many characters, some important & some not, & the book jumps around in time, making it difficult to follow. Trust me, use the cast of characters at the end of this edition (why not place this at the beginning?!) & give up your expectations about traditional narrative format, & you'll LOVE this book as much as I did. In life, we have our own story kind of playing in our head, & at the same time we have all these other stories we're hearing - the story about your mother's great-uncle. The story about your brother in law's neighbor. The one about your sister's husband's aunt & her neighbor. the one about your coworker's mother. You know all those stories? That's what this book is like - some characters are more important than others, so you hear more of their stories, but minor characters have stories too, & they sort of appear out of nowhere, & you get to hear their story, & then they're gone. It's really very cool! I particularly loved the story of the womanizing slave who has a vision during a lightning storm/tornado - & becomes the founder of an orphanage. And the little tiny story about the family who don't want to give up their cow, & the woman goes into the barn to milk the cow & there's this lovely description of her squirting the cow's milk into a cat's mouth, & if you've ever seen a cat eat with true contentment you will recognize the cat body language that Jones describes. Toward the end of the book there's a very powerful scene where a character, who isn't a particularly \"good\" character, says there should be a lantern or light of truth in the world, an actual place where people can stand & tell the truth without fear of retribution, where one might be able to right a wrong. It's a moment where you think, yes this guy could right the wrong by speaking out, because his fear of having people think he's \"on the negro's side\" is...well, wrong! But that's his fear & in that moment of the book you understand it & you think, yeah, what if he could speak out under that light of truth & not have anyone judge him? How wonderful would that be? While the book depicts the horrors of slavery, & there are a few characters who are outright despicable, there are many shades of gray in Jones' vision as well. It's a book that will make you think about slavery, the myths & realities & tragedies of it all, & on top of that it'll make you think about your own life & all the people you've known & how complex & interesting we all are, really. It's beautifully written & the characters will stick in your head as if you'd known them too. Oddly, I think what I initially disliked most about this book - its multitude of characters & convoluted timeline - is what I ended up really enjoying! Another example of a book that made my head expand, with some creakiness, but I'm glad the expansion can still happen! ...more Despite some luminous moments where the characters come alive in a special way, this novel about the lives of slaves in a fictional community in Virginia of the 1830s felt too hermetic and sealed off for me to enjoy it as thoroughly as others might. The special hook that the story holds is its rendering of freed blacks who became slave owners themselves. The focus is on one such plantation with about 30 slaves which is struggling to adapt to the death of its black master, Henry Townsend. We get a Despite some luminous moments where the characters come alive in a special way, this novel about the lives of slaves in a fictional community in Virginia of the 1830s felt too hermetic and sealed off for me to enjoy it as thoroughly as others might. The special hook that the story holds is its rendering of freed blacks who became slave owners themselves. The focus is on one such plantation with about 30 slaves which is struggling to adapt to the death of its black master, Henry Townsend. We get a plausible history along the way of how his father, Augustus, was so talented at furniture making that he bought his own freedom, and state legislative action allowed him to continue residing in the state and eventually bought the freedom of his son. With other free blacks, such as the feisty, condescending teacher Fern, who came from the North, they form a small society of their own. While Augustus abhors slavery, his son tries to emulate the path taken by the whites to economic success by owning slaves. Despite an ambition to become a benevolent master, the corrupting influence of owning people as property is well portrayed. When his lonely widow takes up a love relationship with her plantation foreman, she is replicating the same abuse of power enacted by most other white plantation owners, and the consequences are tragic. The \u201cknown world\u201d of plantation life in this fictional county is like an island in time, and the characters themselves seem stuck in it like insects in amber. The omniscient narrator is god-like in passing into the thoughts and dreams of more than a dozen characters. Unfortunately, the reader gets distanced from emotionally connecting to them by the narrator breaking the flow to leap backward and forward in time to reveal some particular fact or person\u2019s fate (for more see: D.D. Wood review ). Ultimately, the human bonds holding people to each other came off as tenuous and unreal as beholding a ship in a bottle. Unlike the romanticized lives portrayed in Hailey\u2019s \u201cRoots\u201d, the characters have no sense of cultural history of their African origins (the word itself appears nowhere in the book), and there is no foreshadowing of plantation life as a doomed phase in history on the path to the Civil War. The idea of a slave revolt is unthinkable, and the one humane white character, Sheriff Skiffington, feels no compunction over diligently carrying out a big part of his job in organizing night patrols and retrieval efforts when \u201cproperty\u201d runs away. Though we get no sense of the reality of the \u201cUnderground Railroad\u201d, we do get a brilliant vision at one point where Augustus ends up mailing a slave girl to Philadelphia in a crate along with a shipment of his hand-carved walking sticks. In an interview with Jones appended to the audiobook version of the novel, he admits he did not do much research for the book and was not concerned about communicating any particular message to his readers about the history of slavery. As the creator of all the characters, he would not admit to favoring any one character over another. Still the reader can\u2019t help but getting the message of how inhumane slavery was and how individuals trapped in it strived to achieve some form of dignity in their lives. Like other reviewers, I didn\u2019t feel I got to know any of the characters well enough to get emotionally engaged with them. When not interrupted by invasions from the narrator, the prose is effective in evoking the place and time, an obvious factor in helping it gain a Pulitzer Prize. Here is a lovely example from the opening for the book: The evening his master dies he worked again well after he ended the day for the other adults, his own wife among them, and sent them back with hunger and tiredness to their cabins. The young ones, his son among them, had been sent out of the fields an hour or so before the adults, to prepare the late supper and, if there was time enough, to play in a few minutes of sun that were left. When he, Moses, finally freed himself of the ancient and brittle harness that connected him to the oldest mule his master owned, all that was left of the sun was a five-inch long memory of red orange laid out in still waves across the horizon between two mountains on the left and one on the right. He had been in the fields for all of fourteen hours. He paused before leaving the fields as the evening quiet wrapped itself about him. The mule quivered, wanting home and rest. Moses closed his eyes and bent down and took a pinch of the soil and ate it with no more thought than if it were a spot of cornbread. \u2026he ate it not only to discover the strengths and weaknesses of the field, but because eating it tied him to the only thing in his small world that meant almost as much as his own life. ...more A knockout! Doesn't he have a new book coming out in the New Year? Soon I hope. He's a wonderful writer. Why hasn't Oprah made this into a film? What's she waiting for? The Known World does this weird thing: it cites its sources. And it's weird because they don't exist. There are passages like this: [Manchester, VA] went through a period of years and years of what University of Virginia historian Roberta Murphy in a 1948 book would call 'peace and prosperity'. Jones goes on to tell you the publication history of that book, and a few more things about what was in it, and to imply that Roberta Murphy was a little racist. But there is no Roberta Murphy, there is no The Known World does this weird thing: it cites its sources. And it's weird because they don't exist. There are passages like this: [Manchester, VA] went through a period of years and years of what University of Virginia historian Roberta Murphy in a 1948 book would call 'peace and prosperity'. Jones goes on to tell you the publication history of that book, and a few more things about what was in it, and to imply that Roberta Murphy was a little racist. But there is no Roberta Murphy, there is no book, there is no Manchester, VA. What is Jones up to? Wyatt Mason notes : What research on the subject Jones undertook was, in fact, quickly derailed after he happened upon an account of a white slave owner who spent her days abusing one of her black slaves, a little girl, by beating her head against a wall. \u201cIf I had wanted to tell the whole story of slavery, Americans couldn\u2019t have taken that,\u201d Jones told an interviewer. \u201cPeople want to think that there was slavery, and then we got beyond it. People don\u2019t want to hear that a woman would take a child and bang her head against the wall day after day. It\u2019s nice that I didn\u2019t read all those books. What I would have had to put down is far, far harsher and bleaker. Too much of a bummer? It's not that The Known World is a feel-good novel. Ears and Achilles tendons will be sliced. It follows the rules of slavery books: slave narratives always had happy endings; later, fictional slave narratives always have sad endings. But Toni Morrison has a different opinion about what Americans can and can't take. Shit, so does Harriet Jacobs. And Jones knows this, so he's being disingenuous. And you notice that he's talking about books he didn't actually read. NPR says, Jones collected two shelves of books about slavery, but never got around to reading them. Still, the author was able to use his imagination, and stories he had heard growing up, to make his characters come alive. \"I decided the people I'd created were real enough and I had just accumulated enough information about what the world was like in the South before 1865 to allow me to lie and get away with it,\" he says. Look, I don't mean to say Jones isn't telling the truth. I don't know if he is, and neither does he; neither of us read those two shelves of books about slavery. But the citation of imaginary sources in the book itself serves to either add authenticity that's undeserved, or - if you follow up on those sources - underline its lack of authenticity. I'm puzzled by it. But anyway: is it a good made-up story about made-up people? Yeah, sure, totally. Eventually. The first half is a little annoying. There's a lot of chronological foofarah - skipping all over the place for no pressing reason - and a ginormous cast it's hard to keep track of, and our super-omniscient narrator often takes time out to tell you some trivial character's entire life story, which you didn't really need. But the second half ratchets up the tension to pure shit-your-pantsville, as that sprawling cast all meet their assorted fates. It makes up for some irritation in the first half. So yeah, as a novel it's excellent. The authenticity issue, I bring up mostly because we take this book seriously; it won a Pulitzer. It deserves to be looked carefully at. I looked carefully and I was confused by its truth. ...more What a brilliant read! It wasn't a particularly easy book. There are A LOT of characters and there are many threads to the story. It all weaves together in very interesting and unpredictable ways. In the end it was well worth the effort. This is one of those books where every aspect of the writing clicked for me. I loved it. I made me reexamine what makes me who I am as a person and as an American. I think this book changed me a little for the better. I know there is something bizzare about me because I didn't like this book. I know it has a lot of good reviews on here, so people should still give it a chance. Honestly, it is the first book this year I just couldn't finish. I made it halfway through hoping with each chapter that I would become interested in the story. I think my major problem was the way the author laid the stories out. Nothing is in chronological order, and it's extremely confusing to being going back and forth in character' I know there is something bizzare about me because I didn't like this book. I know it has a lot of good reviews on here, so people should still give it a chance. Honestly, it is the first book this year I just couldn't finish. I made it halfway through hoping with each chapter that I would become interested in the story. I think my major problem was the way the author laid the stories out. Nothing is in chronological order, and it's extremely confusing to being going back and forth in character's lives. Half the time I didn't know if things were happening in the present or past. It was just too much work and I began to feel dread every time I looked at the book. Maybe someday I will give it another chance. I just don't have the patience right now. ...more Overall, the story was interesting; black families in Virginia owning their own slaves and the implications thereof. The narration was told in a sweeping way that I'm sure was intended to sound like an oral history. I was willing to ignore my annoyance at not being able to gauge exactly where I was in the timeline. My problem was managing the timeline with all of the characters. I also had fun figuring out how to spot Jones's subtle segues into a new time. Toward the end of the book, I could spo Overall, the story was interesting; black families in Virginia owning their own slaves and the implications thereof. The narration was told in a sweeping way that I'm sure was intended to sound like an oral history. I was willing to ignore my annoyance at not being able to gauge exactly where I was in the timeline. My problem was managing the timeline with all of the characters. I also had fun figuring out how to spot Jones's subtle segues into a new time. Toward the end of the book, I could spot the passing of 20 years without rereading. But the beginning of the book is just a blur. The story focused most of its energy on the Townshend plantation and its workers. But all of the people on the estate were married to, children of, parents of, illegitimate parents of, cheating with people from all the other estates in the county. And once you found a character you liked you had till the end of the paragraph before a whole new character and plot point were introduced. I did like the book. I know many people would be fine with the flow of the narrative. I think the author could have made it easier for the reader to follow the premise and not at the expense of the oral history narration. That's all. ...more This was the final assigned reading for my Introduction to Fiction class and it was SO GOOD. The omniscient third-person narrator takes some adjustment, but once you get into the voice, the book is grand. So many incredible characters populate Jones\u2019 fictitious Virginia county and the discussion I\u2019ve had on this book in class has been incredible. When considering the \u201cGreat American Novel,\u201d The Known World should absolutely be part of that discussion. \u2014 Chris Arnone from The Best Books We Read In This was the final assigned reading for my Introduction to Fiction class and it was SO GOOD. The omniscient third-person narrator takes some adjustment, but once you get into the voice, the book is grand. So many incredible characters populate Jones\u2019 fictitious Virginia county and the discussion I\u2019ve had on this book in class has been incredible. When considering the \u201cGreat American Novel,\u201d The Known World should absolutely be part of that discussion. \u2014 Chris Arnone from The Best Books We Read In December: http://bookriot.com/2015/12/23/riot-r... ...more Glorious account that gets past cliches. The premise is that two slaves in 1840s Virginia bought their freedom, but their son stayed a little too long under the master's care. What does the family do when the son starts his own farm and buys his own slaves? The mastery of Jones' writing comes in the sense of history that he lends to minute objects, chance encounters, and incantatory reveries within a frought landscape. Not content to write an unwritten history of forgotten people, Jones re-write Glorious account that gets past cliches. The premise is that two slaves in 1840s Virginia bought their freedom, but their son stayed a little too long under the master's care. What does the family do when the son starts his own farm and buys his own slaves? The mastery of Jones' writing comes in the sense of history that he lends to minute objects, chance encounters, and incantatory reveries within a frought landscape. Not content to write an unwritten history of forgotten people, Jones re-writes the histories that have been written, citing documents the purport to explain the historical phenomenon of free blacks who owned slaves. Passages that carry runaway characters to the north also tie in academic treatises from the next century, deeds and warrants and court decisions that attempted to justify white supremacy, and the momentoes that emancipated children carry to their deathbeds. Jones doesn't neglect to include tales of individual transformation, collective redemption, or international implications in this epic. Characters may come and go like fleeting ghosts, yet the marks they leave may remain. When the words of the plantation master and deeds of the escaped overseer have faded into ineffectual memory, we readers are left with both the sense that an institution has gone horribly wrong and that the people within it can be honorably right; even if the results remain unapparent, the promise of future change remains, along with the threat of complacency and neglect. Jones didn't attempt to detail the national debate over slavery that was current at that time. That limitation on his project was probably a good one. It allows us to see the human effects that rhetoric had covered, and allowed him to devote his attentions to demonstrating the range of positions that people could occupy in relation to the institution. Yes, whether you're descended from a slave, a master, a freed man, a black woman passing as white, an unwilling overseer, a treacherous deputy, a conscientious drunk, or an immigrant Irishwoman sold into prostitution, there's something in this book for you - and I wish that I was only joking, but the irony is that there is no irony here, and sincerity is the least of what we have to do, and memory is only the start of making a history that hasn't stopped. ...more Great great book. One of the characters early on says, as strange as a world that makes him slave to a white man, \"God had indeed set it twirling and twisting every which way when he put black people owning their own kind.\" Not much I can say that hasn't been said by many other reviewers, and probably the Pulitzer Prize committee, but this is a clear-eyed book about slavery in the 1850s about the moral bankruptcy that allowed it to happen and that it engendered. This novel is not a page turner a Great great book. One of the characters early on says, as strange as a world that makes him slave to a white man, \"God had indeed set it twirling and twisting every which way when he put black people owning their own kind.\" Not much I can say that hasn't been said by many other reviewers, and probably the Pulitzer Prize committee, but this is a clear-eyed book about slavery in the 1850s about the moral bankruptcy that allowed it to happen and that it engendered. This novel is not a page turner and you would do yourself a disservice if you did not take the time to savor every sentence, every bit of dialogue. The novel is also an architectural wonder, apparently seamlessly flowing from story to story, the result of meticulous crafting. Even though the setting is slavery, the novel is also about the things that divide us and unite us, constrained by artficiality - slavery - or not. The themes are epic - tragedy within the larger tragedy, betrayal, ambition, unwarranted brutality, striving for a better life or to be a better person, grace arising from adapting to circumstances, disappointment in children, true love, and forgiveness. Each character is fully inhabited. I only have to look at the cover of the book, one I do not want to part with, and they and their fates - because the author has created one for each one - immediately come rushing back to me. Read this book! ...more Beautiful, interesting, and haunting. So if you ever want to read about a fictional town in Virginia taking place after the Civil War with more characters you can shake a fist at, this is your book. If you want a streamlined story with characters that are not flat, and a plot that is not all over the place, this is not the book for you. I don't know what else to really say besides this book has so many characters it is pretty hard to sit down and point at one and say that's the main protagonist. The book synopsis for The Known World So if you ever want to read about a fictional town in Virginia taking place after the Civil War with more characters you can shake a fist at, this is your book. If you want a streamlined story with characters that are not flat, and a plot that is not all over the place, this is not the book for you. I don't know what else to really say besides this book has so many characters it is pretty hard to sit down and point at one and say that's the main protagonist. The book synopsis for The Known World tells you that this is the story of Henry Townsend, a black farmer and former slave who falls under the tutelage of William Robbins, the most powerful man in Manchester County, Virginia. Well it is also the story of Henry's parents, his wife, his slaves, his former slave owner William's family, the county sheriff and his family, etc. At one point I pretty much gave up keeping track of everyone. Though Henry is in the story for a small part, Jones will reference him throughout the entire book when he goes from past to present and back again. I never got a feeling one way or the other about Henry. I thought he was an odd character who decided that after being born into slavery, he was going to go out and then buy slaves himself. He and his wife Caldonia saw themselves as better than the slaves they owned, but in the end, the book pretty much showed that they were not. This book could have been an interesting look at free blacks who went and then owned slaves themselves, but instead it felt more like a soap opera that I was watching on tv, or in this case, reading. The other characters seem to be mere caricatures here and there and with the meandering story-line it was hard to even care about someone one way or the other. You would be reading and then Jones would drop that the person had died three years and two months later and then go on with his story. The writing was really not that great. There was too much information being forced into paragraphs for me as a reader to even begin to settle while I was reading this. For example: \u201cThe power of the state would crush them to dust,\u201d Louis said. He spoke, as always, not because he had any well-considered views on an issue, but to impress the women around him, and he was now at a point where the woman he most wanted to impress was Caldonia. He had come to Fern\u2019s classes after Caldonia had completed several years of her education, so she had not had much time to learn who he was. And Calvin had said little about him to her, so in many ways they were still strangers to one another. \u201cThe Commonwealth would put an end to it right quick.\u201d I mean why put that part of going to Fern's classes. It takes away the entire rhythm of that paragraph. Here's another example. We read about this Broussard character for a while during the book and it jumps around so much about his end and then would go back to his family who was not missing him in France. \"Perhaps it was just as well that Jean Broussard came to the end that he did in America. His family would never have separated from the lover; he would have had to come with them, or they would not have come at all. No, it was over for him in France. Someone had even accidentally broken Broussard\u2019s favorite mug. His family could have done worse than the man his wife took up with. The lover was, in his fashion, quite a religious man. And he was handy with a knife. He could carve out a man\u2019s heart in the time it took for that human machine to go from one beat to another; and with that same knife the lover was able to peel an apple, without sacrificing any of the apple meat, and present it fresh and whole to a waiting child.\" I don't know what else to say besides the entire book was set up just like this. Way too much information squeezed into paragraphs. The flow of the entire book was off. We started with an end. And instead of working our way back chronological with the beginning, the story goes back and forth and goes back and forth to other characters. The setting of Manchester County Virginia, where The Known World takes place does not feel like a real live place at all. There was no real life imbued in the place since we skip around so much. At the almost ending of the book, the entire plotting becomes a mess and the book kind of stutters to the end. I am glad that I read a book that was on the books every African American should read. However, i doubt I will seek this book out to read again in the future. ...more Edward P. Jones' Bold Vision of \"The Known World\" This story would have been exciting enough based only on the fact that Edward P. Jones so boldly took the antebellum novel to a place it has never gone before; namely, to black slave-owner Henry Townsend's plantation in Manchester, Virginia. There, the \"Known World\" is wholly different from what one might expect. But this seemingly obviously absurd anomaly of U.S. history, wherein black masters owned black slaves, doesn\u2019t stop with that rarely dis Edward P. Jones' Bold Vision of \"The Known World\" This story would have been exciting enough based only on the fact that Edward P. Jones so boldly took the antebellum novel to a place it has never gone before; namely, to black slave-owner Henry Townsend's plantation in Manchester, Virginia. There, the \"Known World\" is wholly different from what one might expect. But this seemingly obviously absurd anomaly of U.S. history, wherein black masters owned black slaves, doesn\u2019t stop with that rarely discussed fact. It is further illuminated by Jones' flights into the fantastic with observations of sentient lightning, children with the personalities of bitter grandparents, and, comically enough, freak chickens. Mixed within this potent literary brew are some of the most original and dynamic characters, male and female, ever to step into the pages of American fiction. In fact, one of the more remarkable features of Jones\u2019 amazing novel is his portrayal of how specific individuals sometimes managed to exploit the institution of slavery in order to indulge their own private needs, quirks, or agendas. It's true that the alternating biblical density and epic expansiveness of details and events with which Jones builds his narrative can at times prove challenging. However, this same aesthetic ultimately delivers a triumphant satisfaction. Jones' Pulitzer--and any other awards received for this novel--was well earned and deserved. by Author-Poet Aberjhani author of \"Encyclopedia of the Harlem Renaissance\" (Facts on File Library of American History) and \"The Wisdom Of W.E.B. Du Bois\" (Wisdom Library) ...more I felt that this book was important to read because it deals with a piece of American history that, like Europe's Holocaust, can never be comprehended, but should never be forgotten, either. The story is told from the less common third person omniscient point of view, which made it read more like a history book than a novel in some parts. It's hard to say which, if any, of the characters was the protagonist. This book sets itself apart from other books set in the antebellum South because the sla I felt that this book was important to read because it deals with a piece of American history that, like Europe's Holocaust, can never be comprehended, but should never be forgotten, either. The story is told from the less common third person omniscient point of view, which made it read more like a history book than a novel in some parts. It's hard to say which, if any, of the characters was the protagonist. This book sets itself apart from other books set in the antebellum South because the slave-owning family at the center of the tale are themselves Black. In an interview at the end of the book, the author says that he got the idea from reading a pamphlet about a Jew who joined the American Nazi party. He said it was hard to envision a member of a group that had such a strong history of oppression actually joining with the oppressors. He was further fascinated to discover that some members of his race had owned slaves and helped to oppress other Blacks in the South. There were definitely some parts of the book that were extremely uncomfortable to read about. The message was not a pretty one, and you could tell that, unlike the fairy-tale characters in Uncle Tom's Cabin, most of Jones's characters were unlikely to see a happy ending in their lifetimes. But there were redeeming stories, and occasional glimpses into a positive future, if not for the characters themselves, for their posterity. Though not an easy read by any means, I highly recommend it to those who take an interest in this particular historical period. ...more This is a book I wouldn't have gotten past page 50 of had I not been reading it for a book club. While the author clearly did his research and posed a fascinating premise--free blacks owning slaves in 1840s Virginia--there wasn't much of a story or a key character or set of characters for you to hang your hat on. As such, I found the book to be much more of a slog than I would have expected with such a fascinating premise. This is one of those books where I want to take the author--who is clearl This is a book I wouldn't have gotten past page 50 of had I not been reading it for a book club. While the author clearly did his research and posed a fascinating premise--free blacks owning slaves in 1840s Virginia--there wasn't much of a story or a key character or set of characters for you to hang your hat on. As such, I found the book to be much more of a slog than I would have expected with such a fascinating premise. This is one of those books where I want to take the author--who is clearly talented--aside and remind him that the novel is primarily a storytelling medium, and that if you're not telling a story, you're breaking your basic contract with the reader. ...more Someone once told me he felt this was the perfect novel. I think he might be right. Addressing the novel \u201cThe Known World,\u201d by Edward Jones, is tough. As a writer and voracious reader, while working my way through the story I found the structure of the novel quite unconventional and unsuccessful\u2014and at times quite irritating\u2014as a means of communicating what might otherwise have been a powerful story with which a reader could in some way connect. And yet when I put down the completed book, I felt I had experienced a compelling tale. In less than 400 pages Jones attempted to tell Addressing the novel \u201cThe Known World,\u201d by Edward Jones, is tough. As a writer and voracious reader, while working my way through the story I found the structure of the novel quite unconventional and unsuccessful\u2014and at times quite irritating\u2014as a means of communicating what might otherwise have been a powerful story with which a reader could in some way connect. And yet when I put down the completed book, I felt I had experienced a compelling tale. In less than 400 pages Jones attempted to tell the story of almost 50 characters; many author\u2019s have trouble successfully spotlighting three or four characters. Jones had on average less than four pages of text to dedicate to each character: any more on any one, and the rest would suffer. (Jones must have understood this to some extent, as he added at the end of the novel a list of characters, including a brief description of each, to assist his readers.) So there already was a multitude of characters, and not much room to say a whole lot about any one of them. Then, it seems Jones took every person\u2019s story, cut each into tiny pieces, mixed them up in a big box, then randomly pulled out fragments and added them to the novel, giving the reader a very disjointed storyline/timeline to follow. Trying to understand who was where, when and how, only detracted from the overall effect the story could have had on me as I read it\u2014the very act of reading it became laborious. Adding to this was Jones\u2019s insistence on inserting so-called present day (for the reader) references. These additions ruined any sense of connection I might have felt existed between the narrator and the story, since it made it apparent that the narrator was here and now (2009, or whenever any reader might open the book) and not even remotely a part of the story or even the setting or era. These snippets only served to detract from the intimacy of the narrator with the story. Hurting the story even further was Jones choice of third person omniscient point of view (POV). With no consistent POV, it was very hard for me to connect or identify with any one character through the entire text. While reading the story, I continued to be disappointed and even irritated at Jones\u2019s method of presentation, right up to the last page. Yet after completion, while still dissatisfied with the final product (I really wanted to KNOW many of the characters, and Jones left me wanting so much more), I found myself contemplating the many characters and plotlines, and realized that while the reading itself was not \u2018fun,\u2019 there was still something there. \u201cThe Known World\u201d was an intricate story through which Jones created a completely imaginary world. (Jones has stated in several subsequent interviews that he conducted absolutely no research, and that the entire story and every single character, other than actual historical figures, was \u201ccrafted in his head.\u201d) And his characters were very consistent. The novel\u2019s title was well chosen: each character acted within the confines of that individual\u2019s known world; very few thought and acted beyond themselves. And yet, all those worlds continually collided\u2014each character in some way was related to, interacted with, or somehow influenced one or more of the others. Jones creation of so many people, and their sometimes tenuous and at other times quite personal ties, was brilliant. Any attempt to plot the relationships and interactions would produce one huge and complex spider web. While completely made up, the plotlines and characters are very believable, based upon what we know of the era, and even upsetting to some, and it all felt very real when I was \u201cin the moment.\u201d While today we know the evils and effects of slavery, Jones was able to present so many characters set perfectly in a time when slavery was both legal and accepted by so many people. Regardless of how any reader may personally feel now, at one time not everyone felt that way. There are many acts that currently are known to be appalling or just outright evil, but at one time were accepted as normal. Thankfully, perspectives change, and we have grown, building upon the knowledge and sentiments of our ancestors. Jones fiction is about such possible forebears, and how some accepted, some rebelled, some pretended and some ran away. Jones instigates numerous emotions through his characters: incredulousness, outrage, sympathy, fear and sadness, to name but a few. In all, the novel grew on me as I was able to let the myriad of fragments come together in my mind well after closing the book. I do believe that the impact might have been greater\u2014and more immediate\u2014if Jones had chosen a more conventional method of storytelling, and limited the number of characters so that each could be more thoroughly developed. ...more This book is so great b/c of its ability to express all of the moral complexities of slavery pre-civil war. Duty, religion, morality, justice, law, success, conformity, experience\u2026\u2026all contribute to the intricacies of slavery. The main characters revolve around Henry, who is a former slave that upholds an estate of slaves. Other characters are a God-fearing slave owner, a slave owner who falls in love with a black woman and has a child, and an educated black woman. Although rare, I had never kno This book is so great b/c of its ability to express all of the moral complexities of slavery pre-civil war. Duty, religion, morality, justice, law, success, conformity, experience\u2026\u2026all contribute to the intricacies of slavery. The main characters revolve around Henry, who is a former slave that upholds an estate of slaves. Other characters are a God-fearing slave owner, a slave owner who falls in love with a black woman and has a child, and an educated black woman. Although rare, I had never known that blacks had owned slaves. It is masterfully written and draws you in, making you imagine what you would think and do during that time\u2026and what you could convince yourself to believe lessening your negative reaction to the idea of slavery (or maybe just not allowing yourself to see slavery\u2019s impact on the individual life as what it really was\u2026.crippling). While at the same time, you get a glimpse of what it must have been like to be a slave, from being a woman who is stripped down so that a white man can look at her to see if he wants to buy her and take her away from her family to being physically abused. There are contradictions and \u201cwell-meant\u201d things that did not turn out well. This is a great book to digest and discuss. I love a historical, relational book that makes you think!! The author also writes about historical documents and events that allow you to believe it actually happened. \u201cDespite vowing never to own a slave, Skiffington had no trouble doing his job to keep the institution of slavery going, an institution even God himself had sanctioned throughout the Bible. Skiffington had learned from his father how much solace there was in separation God\u2019s law from Caesar\u2019s law. \u2018Render your body unto them,\u2019 his father had taught, \u2018but know your soul belongs to God.\u2019 As long as Skiffington and Winifred lived within the light that came from God\u2019s law, from the Bible, nothing on earth, not even his duty as a sheriff to the Caesars, could deny them the kingdom of God. \u2018We will not own slaves,\u2019 Skiffington promised God, and he promised each morning he went to his knees to pray. Though everyone in the country saw Minerva the wedding present as their property, the Skiffingtons did not feel they owned her, not in the way whites and few blacks owned slaves\u201d (this was written about a young girl taken by her parents that they came to own) \u201cHenry, the law will protect you as a master to your slave, and it will not flinch when it protects you. That protection lasts from here all the way to the death of that property. But the law expects you to know what is master and what is slave. And it does not matter if you are not much darker than your slave. The law is blind to that. You are the master and that is all the law wants to know. The law will come to you and stand behind you. But if you roll around and be a playmate to your property, and your property turns round and bites you, the law will come to you still, will but it not come with the full heart and all the deliberate speed you need. You will have pointed to the line that separates you from your property and told your property that the line does not matter.\u201d (Henry goes on to slap his slave right after and say \u201cwhy don\u2019t you never do what I tell you? N--, you never do. You just do what I tell you from now on.\u201d) \u201cHow could anyone, white or not white, think that he could hold on to his land and servants and his future if he thought himself no higher than what he owned.\u201d ...more \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0639\u0631\u0648\u0641 \u062a\u0628\u062d\u0631 \u0628\u0643 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0631\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0627\u0628\u0639 \u0639\u0634\u0631 \u0641\u064a \u0648\u0644\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u0631\u062c\u064a\u0646\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0645\u0631\u064a\u0643\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0645\u0627 \u064a\u062c\u0627\u0648\u0631\u0647\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0645\u062f\u0646 \u0641\u064a \u0632\u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0628\u0648\u062f\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u0627\u0631\u064a\u062e \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0633\u0648\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0631\u0627\u0641\u0642 \u062a\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0629 \u0642\u0628\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0647\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0645\u0631\u064a\u0643\u064a\u0629 . \u0644\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u063a\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u0639\u062f\u0645 \u0634\u0647\u0631\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0625\u0644\u0627 \u0625\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u062d\u0642\u0642\u062a \u0631\u0628\u062d\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0628\u064a\u0639\u0627\u062a \u0639\u0644\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u063a\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u0628\u0639\u062f\u0647\u0627 \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u062b\u0627\u0631\u0629 \u0648\u0641\u0648\u0632 \u0643\u0627\u062a\u0628\u0647\u0627 \"\u0628\u0648\u0644\u064a\u062a\u0631\u0632\" \u0648\u0643\u0630\u0644\u0643 \u062a\u0645 \u062a\u0635\u0646\u064a\u0641\u0647\u0627 \u0639\u0644\u0649 \u0625\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u062a\u0627\u0631\u064a\u062e\u064a\u0629 \u062d\u064a\u062b \u0623\u0645\u0636\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0627\u062a\u0628 10 \u0633\u0646\u0648\u0627\u062a \u0641\u064a \u0643\u062a\u0627\u0628\u0629 \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0647\u064a \u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639\u064a\u0629 \u0644\u062f\u0631\u062c\u0629 \u0643\u0628\u064a\u0631\u0629 \u0648\u062a\u0645\u064a\u0644 \u0644\u0644\u0625\u0646\u0633\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0644\u0627 \u0631\u064a\u0628 \u0641\u064a \u0630\u0644\u0643 \u0625\u0630\u0627 \u0639\u0644\u0645\u0646\u0627 \u0628\u0625\u0646 \u062c\u0648\u0646\u0632 \u0647\u0648 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0628\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0648\u062d\u064a\u062f \u0644\u0639\u0627\u0645\u0644 \u0645\u0637\u0628\u062e \u0648\u062e\u0627\u062f\u0645\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0641\u0646\u062f\u0642 \u0648\u0639\u0645\u0644\u062a \u0623\u0645\u0647 \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0639\u0631\u0648\u0641 \u062a\u0628\u062d\u0631 \u0628\u0643 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0631\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0627\u0628\u0639 \u0639\u0634\u0631 \u0641\u064a \u0648\u0644\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u0631\u062c\u064a\u0646\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0645\u0631\u064a\u0643\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0645\u0627 \u064a\u062c\u0627\u0648\u0631\u0647\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0645\u062f\u0646 \u0641\u064a \u0632\u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0628\u0648\u062f\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u0627\u0631\u064a\u062e \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0633\u0648\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0631\u0627\u0641\u0642 \u062a\u0644\u0643 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0629 \u0642\u0628\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0647\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0645\u0631\u064a\u0643\u064a\u0629 . \u0644\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u063a\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u0639\u062f\u0645 \u0634\u0647\u0631\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0625\u0644\u0627 \u0625\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u062d\u0642\u0642\u062a \u0631\u0628\u062d\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0628\u064a\u0639\u0627\u062a \u0639\u0644\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u063a\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u0628\u0639\u062f\u0647\u0627 \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u062b\u0627\u0631\u0629 \u0648\u0641\u0648\u0632 \u0643\u0627\u062a\u0628\u0647\u0627 \"\u0628\u0648\u0644\u064a\u062a\u0631\u0632\" \u0648\u0643\u0630\u0644\u0643 \u062a\u0645 \u062a\u0635\u0646\u064a\u0641\u0647\u0627 \u0639\u0644\u0649 \u0625\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u062a\u0627\u0631\u064a\u062e\u064a\u0629 \u062d\u064a\u062b \u0623\u0645\u0636\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0627\u062a\u0628 10 \u0633\u0646\u0648\u0627\u062a \u0641\u064a \u0643\u062a\u0627\u0628\u0629 \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0647\u064a \u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639\u064a\u0629 \u0644\u062f\u0631\u062c\u0629 \u0643\u0628\u064a\u0631\u0629 \u0648\u062a\u0645\u064a\u0644 \u0644\u0644\u0625\u0646\u0633\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0644\u0627 \u0631\u064a\u0628 \u0641\u064a \u0630\u0644\u0643 \u0625\u0630\u0627 \u0639\u0644\u0645\u0646\u0627 \u0628\u0625\u0646 \u062c\u0648\u0646\u0632 \u0647\u0648 \u0627\u0644\u0627\u0628\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0648\u062d\u064a\u062f \u0644\u0639\u0627\u0645\u0644 \u0645\u0637\u0628\u062e \u0648\u062e\u0627\u062f\u0645\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0641\u0646\u062f\u0642 \u0648\u0639\u0645\u0644\u062a \u0623\u0645\u0647 \u0641\u064a \u0634\u062a\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0639\u0645\u0627\u0644 \u0645\u0646 \u0623\u062c\u0644 \u0625\u0628\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u0627\u062e\u062a\u0641\u0627\u0621 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062f\u0647 \u0641\u064a \u0635\u063a\u0631\u0647. \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0631\u063a\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u0623\u0646 \u0627\u0645\u0647 \u0644\u0627 \u062a\u0639\u0631\u0641 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0631\u0627\u0621\u0629 \u0623\u0648 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u062a\u0627\u0628\u0629 \u0625\u0644\u0627 \u0625\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u063a\u0631\u0633\u062a \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0628\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u062d\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0644\u0645. \u0648\u0633\u0644\u0648\u0643 \u0625\u0628\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0645\u062c\u0627\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062f\u0628 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0639\u0627\u0645 \u0648\u0627\u0646\u0636\u0645 \u0641\u064a 2010 \u0625\u0644\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0647\u064a\u0626\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u062f\u0631\u064a\u0633\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0642\u0633\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0644\u063a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0646\u0643\u0644\u064a\u0632\u064a\u0629 \u0644\u0644\u0643\u062a\u0627\u0628\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0628\u062f\u0627\u0639\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u062c\u0627\u0645\u0639\u0629 \u062c\u0648\u0631\u062c \u0648\u0627\u0634\u0646\u0637\u0648\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u063a\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0639\u0631\u064a\u0641. \u062a\u0628\u062f\u0623 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0645\u0642\u0648\u0644\u0629 \u0623\u062f\u0648\u0627\u0631\u062f \u0628\u064a. \u062c\u0632\u0646\u0632 \" \u0637\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0627 \u062a\u0633\u0627\u0621\u0644\u062a \u0631\u0648\u062d\u064a \u0643\u064a\u0641 \u062a\u062c\u0627\u0648\u0632\u062a \u0643\u0644 \u0634\u064a\u0621\" \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0635\u0641\u062d\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0648\u0644\u0649 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u064a\u0630\u0643\u0631 \u0625\u062d\u0635\u0627\u0621\u0627\u062a \u0645\u0627\u0646\u0634\u0633\u062a\u0631 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0647\u064a \u0623\u0648\u0633\u0639 \u0645\u0642\u0627\u0637\u0639\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u062c\u064a\u0646\u064a\u0627 \u0644\u0639\u0627\u0645 1840 \u062d\u064f\u0631:2191 \u0639\u0628\u062f \u062d\u064f\u0631:142 \u0647\u0646\u062f\u064a \u0623\u062d\u0645\u0631: 136 \u0639\u0628\u062f:2191 \u0643\u062b\u0631\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0628\u064a\u062f \u0644\u0623\u0646\u0647\u0645 \u0643\u0627\u0646\u0648\u0627 \u0625\u0645\u0627 \u062e\u062f\u0645\u0627 \u0623\u0648 \u0645\u0632\u0627\u0639\u064a\u0646 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0642\u0648\u0644 . \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u0639\u0627\u0645 \u062a\u062a\u0637\u0631\u0642 \u0625\u0644\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0648\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062d\u0631\u0627\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a\u0646 \u064a\u0645\u0644\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0639\u0628\u064a\u062f\u064b\u0627 \u0648\u0643\u064a\u0641 \u0642\u0627\u0645 \u0623\u063a\u0633\u0637\u0633 \u062a\u0627\u0648\u0646\u0633\u0646\u062f \u0628\u0634\u0631\u0627\u0621 \u062d\u0631\u064a\u062a\u0647 \u0648\u0628\u0639\u062f\u0647\u0627 \u0639\u0645\u0644 \u0628\u062c\u062f \u0645\u0646 \u0623\u062c\u0644 \u0634\u0631\u0627\u0621 \u062d\u0631\u064a\u0629 \u0643\u0644 \u0645\u0646 \u0632\u0648\u062c\u062a\u0629 \u0648\u0648\u0644\u062f\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0625\u062e\u062a\u0637\u0641 \u0644\u064a\u0639\u0645\u0644 \u0648\u064a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0639\u0628\u062f\u0627 \u0648\u0641\u064a\u0645\u0627 \u0628\u0639\u062f \u064a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0647\u0648 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0628\u062f \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631 ( \u0647\u0646\u0631\u064a ) \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u064a\u0634\u062a\u0631\u064a \u0623\u0631\u0636\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u0633\u064a\u062f\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0627\u0628\u0642 \u0648\u064a\u0635\u0644\u062d\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u062a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0647\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0631\u0636 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0646\u0634\u0627\u0647\u062f \u0641\u064a\u0647\u0627 \u0623\u063a\u0644\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0634\u0627\u0647\u062f \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0623\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b. \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u062d\u0627\u0648\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0627\u062a\u0628 \u0648\u0635\u0641\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u0637\u0631\u064a\u0642\u0629 \u0645\u0639\u064a\u0634\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u0637\u0631\u0642 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0639\u0630\u064a\u0628 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0639\u0642\u0648\u0628\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0645\u0631\u0648\u0627 \u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u062a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0623\u0642\u0631\u0628 \u0644\u0644\u0648\u062d\u0634\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0627\u0633\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0644\u064a\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0625\u0633\u062a\u062d\u062f\u062b\u062a \u0641\u064a \u0639\u0647\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0623\u0645\u0648\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u062f\u064a\u062f (\u062c\u0648\u0646 \u0633\u0643\u0641\u064a\u0646\u063a\u062a\u0646) \u0645\u0639 \u0645\u062c\u0645\u0648\u0639\u0629 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u062c\u0627\u0644\u060c \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u064a\u0644\u0627\u0642\u064a \u0645\u0635\u0631\u0639\u0647 \u0639\u0644\u0649 \u064a\u062f \u0627\u0628\u0646 \u0639\u0645\u0647 \u0641\u064a \u0645\u0634\u0647\u062f \u062f\u0645\u0648\u064a. \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062f\u064a\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u064a\u062f\u064a\u0646\u0648\u0646 \u0628\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u064a\u062a\u0639\u0645\u062f \u0641\u064a\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0647\u0646\u0629 \u0639\u0644\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0633\u0627\u0637\u0629 \u0628\u0639\u064a\u062f\u0627 \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0645\u0642. \u0648\u0647\u0630\u0647 \u0623\u062d\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0634\u0627\u0647\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0641\u0636\u064a\u0639\u0629 \u062d\u064a\u062b \u0647\u0631\u0628 ( \u0625\u0644\u064a\u0627\u0633) \u0648\u0639\u0646\u062f\u0645\u0627 \u0648\u062c\u062f\u0648\u0647 \u0642\u0637\u0639\u062a \u0623\u0630\u0646\u0647 \u0645\u0646 \u0642\u0628\u0644 \u0623\u062d\u062f \u0631\u062c\u0627\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u062f\u0648\u0631\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0644\u064a\u0644\u064a\u0629 (\u0627\u0644\u0647\u0646\u062f\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062d\u0645\u0631- \u0623\u0648\u062f\u0646) \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0633\u064a\u0635\u0628\u062d \u0641\u064a\u0645\u0627 \u0628\u0639\u062f \u0645\u0631\u0627\u0642\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0645\u0627\u0644 \u0628\u0639\u062f \u0623\u0646 \u064a\u0647\u0631\u0628 (\u0645\u0648\u0633\u0649) \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0645\u0631\u0627\u0642\u0628\u0627 \u0644\u0644\u0639\u0645\u0627\u0644 \u0648\u0633\u0627\u0639\u062f \u0639\u0627\u0626\u0644\u062a\u0647 \u0648\u0623\u0644\u064a\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0625\u062f\u0639\u062a \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0646\u0648\u0646 \u0639\u0644\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0647\u0631\u0628. \u064a\u0630\u0643\u0631 \u062c\u0648\u0646\u0632 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0646\u062f\u064a ( \u0627\u0646\u062f\u0631\u0633\u0646 \u0641\u0631\u064a\u0632\u0631) \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0623\u062c\u0631\u0649 \u062d\u0648\u0627\u0631 \u0628\u0640(\u0641\u064a\u0631\u0646) \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0639\u0644\u0645\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u062f\u0631\u0633\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0648\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062d\u0631\u0627\u0631 \u0648\u0643\u0627\u0646\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0627\u062f\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0628 \u0643\u062a\u0628 \u0639\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0639\u0646 \"\u0639\u062c\u0627\u0626\u0628 \u0648\u063a\u0631\u0627\u0626\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0646\u0648\u0628\u064a\u064a\u0646 \u060c \u0627\u0642\u062a\u0635\u0627\u062f \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0637\u0646\u060c \u0648\u062d\u0642\u0642\u062a \u0646\u062c\u062d\u0627 \u0641\u064a\u0645\u0627 \u0628\u0639\u062f \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u0643\u0627\u0646\u062a \u0623\u0642\u0631\u0628 \u0644\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0633\u0644\u0629. \u062a\u062a\u0633\u0627\u0631\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0641\u064a\u0645\u0627 \u0628\u0639\u062f \u0625\u0644\u0649 \u0623\u0646 \u0646\u0635\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u0635\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062e\u064a\u0631 \u0631\u0633\u0627\u0644\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u062e (\u0643\u0627\u0644\u0641\u0646) \u0625\u0644\u0649 \u0623\u062e\u062a\u0647 (\u0643\u0627\u0644\u062f\u0648\u0646\u064a\u0627) \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u064a\u0630\u0643\u0631 \u0641\u064a\u0647\u0627 \u0645\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u062d\u062f\u062b \u0644\u0647 \u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0627 \u0641\u064a 12 \u0623\u0628\u0631\u064a\u0644 1861 \u0648\u0647\u0648 \u0646\u0641\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u064a\u0648\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u062d\u062f\u062b\u062a \u0641\u064a\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0647\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0645\u0631\u064a\u0643\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0644\u0627 \u064a\u0630\u0643\u0631 \u0641\u064a\u0647\u0627 \u0623\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0625\u0646\u0645\u0627 \u0623\u0645\u0648\u0631 \u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u062d\u064a\u0627\u062a\u0647. \u0641\u064a\u0644\u0645 \u0648\u062b\u0627\u0626\u0642\u064a \u0639\u0646 \u062a\u0627\u0631\u064a\u062e \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0628\u0648\u062f\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0623\u0645\u0631\u064a\u0643\u0627 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pDukq... ...more Another disappointing Pulizter choice. The narrative jumps from present to past to future which can be wonderful when there are characters one cares about but I found I didn't care much about any of them. There are almost no positive marital, sibling, or parental relationships. While the value systems of the time period are hard to understand today, no one in this book seemed to have real value system at all. The book may be revealing to many who were not aware of the practice of free African Am Another disappointing Pulizter choice. The narrative jumps from present to past to future which can be wonderful when there are characters one cares about but I found I didn't care much about any of them. There are almost no positive marital, sibling, or parental relationships. While the value systems of the time period are hard to understand today, no one in this book seemed to have real value system at all. The book may be revealing to many who were not aware of the practice of free African Americans owning other African Americans as slaves, but there was never a character sympathetic enought for me to get the slightest glimpse of how they could justify this behavior from the white or black perspective. The majority of the charcters lack any real introspection and their motivation is unclear. While this may be a literary puzzle for the reader in some cases, here it was just frustrating. This book does seem to fit the tendency I see in modern literature. The tragic flaw was the downfall of a hero, a person admirable excpet for some weakness that becomes their undoing. Today it is more likely for a writer to paint unadmirable characters with one redeeming quality that is suppossed to atone for their other breaches of morality. Or redeeming qualities are viewed as an impediment to getting what one truly wants. We seemed to be determined to create characters that are \"real\" or are they just easier to compare ourselves to and feel good about our moral superiority--no matter how low the standard. ...more This was a great book, very well written and an interesting read. Tackling the complex morale issues surrounding slavery from a new perspective, this book delves into the territory of black owners of slaves. Without preaching, the author successfully navigates barbaric treatments and offers a view into the mental justifications and rationalizations. Characters of great strength, courage and resilience are interspersed on both sides of the issue, as are truly terrible individuals. The author conti This was a great book, very well written and an interesting read. Tackling the complex morale issues surrounding slavery from a new perspective, this book delves into the territory of black owners of slaves. Without preaching, the author successfully navigates barbaric treatments and offers a view into the mental justifications and rationalizations. Characters of great strength, courage and resilience are interspersed on both sides of the issue, as are truly terrible individuals. The author continuously introduces new, inter-related characters which means he constantly has to remind us of who someone is. While a bit extraneous, it didn't detract from the book. This isn't a traditional \"story book\" where you follow someone's life. The author jumps around from past, present and future glimpses to facilitate quick character development. The downside to this was there weren't \"cliff hangers\" at the end of chapters that kept me reading non-stop. I recommend this highly as a quality book. It definitely makes you think about how the human psyche can be manipulated, and how laws of the land and society can be used to justify behaviors. ...more<---C>Edward P. Jones</---C>", "Title": "The Known World"},
