{"Comments": "When I say I am not a people person, I mean I can find five reasons to hate someone, anyone, within ten minutes of meeting them in real life. As consequence of this and the desire to not let overwhelming anger ruin my life, I am always putting myself in the other's place, years of which have both calmed me down and sharpened my analysis to the quick. However much I initially dislike you,<---M> I will always</---M>, always, always respect you, and if you're not a complete and utter asshole and/or hypocrite wh When I say I am not a people person, I mean I can find five reasons to hate someone, anyone, within ten minutes of meeting them in real life. As consequence of this and the desire to not let overwhelming anger ruin my life, I am always putting myself in the other's place, years of which have both calmed me down and sharpened my analysis to the quick. However much I initially dislike you, I will always, always, always respect you, and if you're not a complete and utter asshole and/or hypocrite who never seriously considers what others have to say, I will reconcile myself with you in short order. The same goes for personas in books, which is why the whole concept of \"likable\" characters makes me laugh. If I factored that into my evaluation of literature, I'd be left with very few successes. Despite what many of these reviews complain about, most of these characters are not assholes. Hypocrites, yes, but with a realness with which neither they nor the author may be condemned for. One of them is indeed a very typical asshole, but in such a fully explicated way that he is wielded as a veritable scythe through the ivory tower insipidity that is academia. This straight white male is a professor, a critic, a derider of custom and slayer of sentiment, so liberal in politics and so solipsistic in existence, able to get by in a world that encourages education without empathy at every turn in order to churn out glorified hipsters in the highest echelons of college campuses all across the US. In his eyes, nothing is sacred except for his dick, far more emblematic of a flawed society spewing out the same shit different days than any fault of the author, and which would hardly prove for a uniquely inspiring narrative had Smith not populated his world with characters that called him out on it at every turn. This includes the much objectified woman of his desires, who despite never having a share of that third person point of view is nothing less than fully and heartbreakingly human.<---F> Now that takes true writerly talent</---F>. Now, I loved Howards End , I did. However, the ending was too clean, too circumspect, too full of its own glorious aspirations to really ponder the implications of demographics on personal relations, and ultimately in great need of satirization. Teaching that book to students today will give you exuberant know nothings with nary a thought as to the twisting of privilege in the smallest facet of daily life, a truth fended off every second of every hour with empty courtesy, gentrified fortresses, and the avoidance of certain subjects. Politics, religion, pay check. Beware of the other side of the fence, less you find out how much and how so you use and are used. There's no success there, neither your money nor your life. Liberalism tries. As Smith displays in full, liberalism tries, but is easily co-opted without complete understanding, or even the willingness to understand, for it is one thing to condemn racism and sexism and everything else and quite another to view one's life through the paradigm forever on. It is tiring, it is hard , and quite frankly who has time for all that when there's a 40+ hour work week and kids and taxes and pull up your bootstraps 'cause no one's ready or willing to coddle you no matter how much your nature and nurture screwed you over long before you were born. Never mind your beautiful passion for what society considers wrong for all the wrong reasons. Never mind the judgment based on white heternormative masculinity, women deepening their voice in speaking classes, black men fending off the fearful stares with constant reassurance, both expending energy that could have been wonderfully devoted elsewhere if not for their body and soul. In the end, hate people if you will. Hate them, but always grant them reason to live. Always grant them reason to exist in your eyes, regardless of what promotions they have the power to make possible, what length of your time they are worth based on the connections you hypothesize out of the tone of their voice and color of their skin, how much you can squeeze out of them before going back to that circle habituated to whatever power you have as a youth/mother/daughter/father/son you call family. You have the right to living your life without actively seeking out danger, but do not avoid a chance to communicate out of guilt, or shame, or entitlement. You were compromised coming into this world by both privilege and oppression; you will gain nothing by splintering off in your own little bell jar of social justice. If you are silent about your pain, they'll kill you and say you enjoyed it. -Zora Neale Hurston Humans are social creatures. There is, despite the hypocritical politickings, something beautiful worth living for in the halls of thought. Rome wasn't built in a day. In other words, go listen to some rap, or whatever other medium you have closed yourself off from without ever really knowing why or considering what drives your fellow human beings who so rapturously partake of it. Talk is cheap, silence is death, and we might as well like or dislike the tomato while explaining why; something may come of it yet. ...more Before we talk about <---A>Zadie Smith</---A>, let\u2019s talk about me first. Here issomething you should know \u2013 I was a serious book-worm up until I turned 16 (<---B>more or less</---B>) at which point I lost all interest in anything that wasn\u2019t parties, boys, alcohol, drugs or sex. There, I said it. For the next five years my brain didn\u2019t see much action (I somehow managed to finish high school and got accepted into the University of Warsaw but generally I found education a big distraction to my social life). I was about 2 Before we talk about Zadie Smith, let\u2019s talk about me first. Here issomething you should know \u2013 I was a serious book-worm up until I turned 16 (more or less) at which point I lost all interest in anything that wasn\u2019t parties, boys, alcohol, drugs or sex. There, I said it. For the next five years my brain didn\u2019t see much action (I somehow managed to finish high school and got accepted into the University of Warsaw but generally I found education a big distraction to my social life). I was about 21 when finally the fog surrounding my brain cleared a little and I decided to go to my local library. I had no idea what to read or how to choose. I was just browsing idly when I saw a book called \u2018White Teeth\u2019 with an interesting cover. I checked it out, went home and started reading. Soon I was mesmerized. I had no idea there were books like that, that there were stories like that and that people were telling them. I can\u2019t quite recall now what it was about \u2018White Teeth\u2019 that spoke to me so but it was as if a curse was lifted and I could read and use my brain again. For this OCD reason or another, a decade had to pass before I read another Zadie Smith\u2019s book. I am more cynical now and not so easily impressed as I was back then. I felt l could see what Smith was doing there; I was onto all her tricks. Nonetheless, I enjoyed this book tremendously. All this mixing of race, politics, academia, art, love and death \u2013 what\u2019s not to love? Even if some of the observations were not particularly revelatory to me I have to give it to Zadie \u2013 she knows how to write people. That\u2019s what the characters in \u2018<+++>On Beauty</+++>\u2019 were \u2013 people, rather than characters. They were so well put together I feel I would recognize them if I chanced upon them at a party (you know, I still go to parties). Zadie Smith is at the same cruel and merciful towards her subjects. She won\u2019t hesitate to point out all the silliness of their lives but allows us to feel compassion for them and look upon their futile attempts to practice what they preach with forgiveness. Also the climax was quite astonishing. I begin to believe that the ability to write a good climax, to make the reader understand you knew exactly what you were doing from page one is exactly what separates great writers from everybody else. But we shouldn\u2019t forget humour either: \u2018[\u2026] A brother don\u2019t need a gate \u2013 he jumps the fence. That\u2019s street.\u2019 \u2018Again, please?\u2019 said Howard. \u2018Street, street,\u2019 bellowed Zora. It\u2019s like, \u201cbeing street\u201d, knowing the street \u2013 in Levi\u2019s sad little world if you\u2019re a Negro you have some kind of mysterious holy communion with sidewalks and corners.\u2019 And descriptions. Here is my personal favourite (for obvious reasons): The African women in their colourful kenti cloths, the whippet blonde with three phones tucked into the waistband of her trucksuit, the unmistakeable Poles and Russians introducing the bone structure of Soviet Realism to an island of chinless, browless potato-faces, the Irish men resting on the gates of housing estates like farmers at a pig fair in Kerry\u2026 Bone structure! You can thank us for that later. ...more This is a book full of unbeautiful people: obnoxious teenagers, philandering academics, stuffy professors, right-on street rappers, wispy rich kids and more obnoxious teenagers. Zadie takes a scalpel to Anglo-American academic relations, probing away at the race/class issues with her usual mordant unflinching cruelty and compassion. She plants a series of depth charges in the lives of her wibbling characters, watching them each explode in turn into quivering heaps of gloopy suet. As ever, the ri This is a book full of unbeautiful people: obnoxious teenagers, philandering academics, stuffy professors, right-on street rappers, wispy rich kids and more obnoxious teenagers. Zadie takes a scalpel to Anglo-American academic relations, probing away at the race/class issues with her usual mordant unflinching cruelty and compassion. She plants a series of depth charges in the lives of her wibbling characters, watching them each explode in turn into quivering heaps of gloopy suet. As ever, the ride is a scream. ...more I'm beginning to think the problem isn't the books, but me. I was really, really primed to like this book. Not only had one friend spoken favorably of it, another had seen to it that the book was carried all the way from Malawi, Africa to New York and then sent to me. I am embarrassed to report I had a hard time even finishing it. My primary complaint is contrivances. The dialogue was unnatural to me...and the plot, my goodness. It was hard enough to believe in such a deep academic feud between I'm beginning to think the problem isn't the books, but me. I was really, really primed to like this book. Not only had one friend spoken favorably of it, another had seen to it that the book was carried all the way from Malawi, Africa to New York and then sent to me. I am embarrassed to report I had a hard time even finishing it. My primary complaint is contrivances. The dialogue was unnatural to me...and the plot, my goodness. It was hard enough to believe in such a deep academic feud between the father and his rival...but then the rivals move down the street and the feud continues but the moms are friends so when one of them dies and they just all HAPPEN to be near the same part of England the Belsey family attends the funeral and Howard does it with the same girl his son had been in love with. Meanwhile, back in their American lives the family runs into Carl not only at a concert but then he also comes to their house, then sees them again and he just so happens to be a spoken word poet at the place where Zora's poetry teacher loves to go, and for a while Levi is enamored of Carl but then falls in with a group of Haitians and as he gets to know them learns that they also hate Howard's rival and it all has to do with the very same painting that Howard's rival's wife gave to Kiki Belsey but was temporarily misappropriated by Howard's rival. And then it happens to wind up under Kiki's bed. It was too much for me. I liked the ending, though, in that there was no real redemption for Howard, just a kind of fizzling. Parts were well written. Parts. ...more I find myself liking Zadie Smith more and more. The blurb about this wasn\u2019t immediately promising; another novel about a middle-aged academic having an affair resulting in a family and personal crisis. However, there is much more going on. Smith herself has acknowledged that it is an Homage to Howard\u2019s End. The author creates a multitude of voices, all interesting in their own right. It is set in a fictional American university town, Wellington (a thinly disguised Harvard). The novel revolves ar I find myself liking Zadie Smith more and more. The blurb about this wasn\u2019t immediately promising; another novel about a middle-aged academic having an affair resulting in a family and personal crisis. However, there is much more going on. Smith herself has acknowledged that it is an Homage to Howard\u2019s End. The author creates a multitude of voices, all interesting in their own right. It is set in a fictional American university town, Wellington (a thinly disguised Harvard). The novel revolves around the Belsey family; Howard, the white male academic described earlier, his African-American wife Kiki and their three children, Zora, Levi and Jerome. Howard is a left wing (ish) liberal and he has an academic rival, Monty Kipps, a Trinidadian who is rather right wing (whilst writing this I am suddenly reminded of Naipaul who is Trinidadian and was a fan of Thatcher; but the resemblance ends there). Monty\u2019s wife Carlene and Kiki become friends and the two families become entwined in a number of ways. The Belsey children are really well drawn. Smith captures the right level of warmth, hope, youthful verve and irritatingness for three teenage children. There is a warmth and humanity to all the characters, even Howard and Monty, both hypocrites. The university and academia types are brilliant and capture the machinations of academic life; thankfully there isn\u2019t too much of them and usually the children take centre stage. Smith satirises everyone on all sides of the cultural divides we all inhabit; but without losing the warmth mentioned above. The politics of race and gender are handled here with great humour and Smith maintains a serious moral compass and shows the importance of connections in human relationships. There are some genuinely funny moments; Howard\u2019s reaction to the glee club and his relating of it to his wife for example. There are also moments of great perception; Howard simply does not seem to understand the reactions to his infidelity. As for the second infidelity; it is breath-taking in its timing and inappropriateness. His family around him understand him all too well and let him know. This is a good comic novel, which has great humanity and is a seriously good read. ...more I was deeply displeased with this book. I can't believe I actually finished it; I liked neither the characters nor the language nor the style. I only read it because I got it for free (found it on the street in a pile of other middling titles), but though that excuses my starting it, it does not at all excuse my slogging through, stubbornly determined, all the way to the end. The truth is this: I was too lazy to figure out what to read next, which is incredibly idiotic, so I deserved what I got. I was deeply displeased with this book. I can't believe I actually finished it; I liked neither the characters nor the language nor the style. I only read it because I got it for free (found it on the street in a pile of other middling titles), but though that excuses my starting it, it does not at all excuse my slogging through, stubbornly determined, all the way to the end. The truth is this: I was too lazy to figure out what to read next, which is incredibly idiotic, so I deserved what I got. There were a few moments right there toward the end when she pulled all the semi-disparate plotlines together and I was fairly impressed seeing how it all fit, but all in all? This book sucked and I kind of suck for reading it. ...more I think <+++>On Beauty</+++> is brilliant. I loved the extra layer of meaning that my reading of E.M. Forster's Howards End provided -- but I don't think it's necessary to do background reading to enjoy this novel. The characters are \"messy,\" as Zadie Smith would say -- most of them make a lot of mistakes, but, for the most part, you love them, or sympathize with them for all of their deficiencies. It's a book with many layers, which is just the kind of fiction I love the most! Zadie Smith has experience in I think On Beauty is brilliant. I loved the extra layer of meaning that my reading of E.M. Forster's Howards End provided -- but I don't think it's necessary to do background reading to enjoy this novel. The characters are \"messy,\" as Zadie Smith would say -- most of them make a lot of mistakes, but, for the most part, you love them, or sympathize with them for all of their deficiencies. It's a book with many layers, which is just the kind of fiction I love the most! Zadie Smith has experience in many worlds, crosses many boundaries, and has interesting things to say from a variety of perspectives (including as both a fiction writer and as an academic). She's not only an extremely talented novelist, but she is super educated and smart, with interesting opinions on art, writing, and reading that can be appreciated by anyone. For example, her stance on the value of reading fiction in one sentence, which I really like: \"When we read with fine attention, we find ourselves caring about people who are various, muddled, uncertain and not quite like us (and this is good).\" (Read \"Love, Actually,\" published in the UK Guardian , Nov. 1, 2003, to understand the fullness of what that means.) In On Beauty Smith tells an engaging story centered in a Harvard-like community, with lots of political, social, and academic battles that make you laugh and cringe at the same time. The dialogue is snappy and entertaining. We get the most concentrated view of Howard, a middle-aged, untenured professor (his stalled book-in-progress and unpopular art history lectures argue against Rembrandt's artistic genius), and his practical, down-to-earth, and wise wife and three young adult children. Howard gets himself deeper and deeper into trouble, putting his 30-year marriage on the line for extramarital nonsense, as his career continues to go nowhere. There are lots of controversy-filled themes packed in this novel: race, immigration, class, gender -- along with love, family, friendship, coming-of-age, and aging. Everyone is trying to figure out their place in the world and with each other. One of the many memorable scenes is when Howard makes an unplanned visit to his father during an emergency trip to London. It has been four years since their last failed visit, and they both can't help -- despite their best intentions -- but clash. Howard and his father speak different languages. It pains Howard to confront his father's ignorance just as his father is shocked by Howard's incomprehensible views of art and puzzled by his interracial marriage and family. Smith skillfully captures the chasm between father and son, painful memories, and the impossibility of successful communication and a meaningful relationship. Readers of Howards End won't have any trouble recognizing the parallels - but Smith goes way beyond the framework provided by Forster, to make this a book that addresses contemporary personal and social contradictions in an entirely fresh, creative, and relevant manner. I highly recommend this outstanding novel! ...more Smith accomplishes much in this, her third novel. \"Autograph Man\" was sadly not memorable and \"White Teeth\", the novel that quickly turned her into the valedictorian of all modern young writers, was epic but also did not engage me too much. \"On Beauty\" is exceptionally readable, relevant/modern, complicated, witty. She has honed her skills, and one must be a 'lil jealous. Like I told G. just yesterday: it contains that Middlesexian moment of profound awe. Modern novels, at least those that are im Smith accomplishes much in this, her third novel. \"Autograph Man\" was sadly not memorable and \"White Teeth\", the novel that quickly turned her into the valedictorian of all modern young writers, was epic but also did not engage me too much. \"On Beauty\" is exceptionally readable, relevant/modern, complicated, witty. She has honed her skills, and one must be a 'lil jealous. Like I told G. just yesterday: it contains that Middlesexian moment of profound awe. Modern novels, at least those that are implemented into the canon (think: The Poisonwood Bible, The Corrections...), must either have that moment where a tear kinda materializes because emotions are too vivid, or because the scene contains awesomely understated beauty. \"On Beauty,\" on second thought, has both. If I reveal that the scene where once was there was a closet-full of colorful clothes and now only a suit remains... well I don't reveal too TOO much. This is well written, poignant. I must say that I AM a fan of Smith. Before I would say it too bluntly, I guess because that was en vogue. But after reading this novel, in close competition with \"The Corrections\" as the Great (American....British) Novel (version: 21st century), I honestly say I can't wait for the next one. On \"On Beauty\"'s fate: It will be harvested for its amazing prose, insightful jewels of paragraph, and transplanted onto Sophomore-level English textbooks to be read by future generations. ...more Alive is the word which springs to mind about this novel. It is a glorious, page-turning, rip-snorter of a tale through the lives of a white British college professor, Howard Belsey who's married to a black American, their three near-adult children and Howard's nemesis \u2013 Monty Kipps. My favorite part is Howard's reaction while listening to the glee club singers at the formal college dinner; uproariously funny and totally priceless! This is a novel where I would love to read a prequel and a sequel Alive is the word which springs to mind about this novel. It is a glorious, page-turning, rip-snorter of a tale through the lives of a white British college professor, Howard Belsey who's married to a black American, their three near-adult children and Howard's nemesis \u2013 Monty Kipps. My favorite part is Howard's reaction while listening to the glee club singers at the formal college dinner; uproariously funny and totally priceless! This is a novel where I would love to read a prequel and a sequel if Ms Smith would be so kind as to write them. I just want more and more of this family and of Smith's gorgeous prose. The review which has the novel in a nutshell and by far the best is: MJ Nicholls's review Mar 20, 11 5 of 5 stars bookshelves: novels, sassysassenachs, tortured-artists, distaff Read from March 13 to 16, 2011 \u201c This is a book full of unbeautiful people: obnoxious teenagers, philandering academics, stuffy professors, right-on street rappers, wispy rich kids and more obnoxious teenagers. Zadie takes a scalpel to Anglo-American academic relations, probing away at the race/class issues with her usual mordant unflinching cruelty and compassion. She plants a series of depth charges in the lives of her wibbling characters, watching them each explode in turn into quivering heaps of gloopy suet. As ever, the ride is a scream. \u201d MOST HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. I'm with MJ Nicholls; a definite 5\u2605 ...more Sassy, smart and street-wise is what this novel is; what Zadie Smith is. With a literary nod to a favourite novel of mine, Howards End - which is anything but sassy and street-wise - this is a novel that only Zadie Smith could pull off. As in White Teeth and NW , it is teeming with snappy conversations, larger-than-life characters, literary references and unlikely plot developments (partly gr\u00e2ce \u00e0 Forster); in short On Beauty is full of life and soul. The prose crackles and sparkles, and once aga Sassy, smart and street-wise is what this novel is; what Zadie Smith is. With a literary nod to a favourite novel of mine, Howards End - which is anything but sassy and street-wise - this is a novel that only Zadie Smith could pull off. As in White Teeth and NW , it is teeming with snappy conversations, larger-than-life characters, literary references and unlikely plot developments (partly gr\u00e2ce \u00e0 Forster); in short On Beauty is full of life and soul. The prose crackles and sparkles, and once again we witness Zadie Smith\u2019s trademark ear for different dialects and sociolects, rap and literature. And while many of her sentences are eloquent and the topics serious, they are also full of mirth. It is perhaps what I appreciate the most: her wit. Because it is invariably coupled with heart and smarts. Here Howard, middle-aged intellectual Brit transplanted to the United States courtesy of his voluptuous, African-American, non-intellectual (and utterly wonderful) wife, Kiki, is having a conversation with a curator at the college where he teaches (who speaks the first line): \u2019Ag\u2019inst Rembrandt\u2019, the second man said. He had a high-pitched Southern voice that struck Howard as a comic assault for which he had been completely unprepared. \u2018That was the title your assistant mailed us \u2013 I\u2019m just tryna figger what you meant by \u2018ag\u2019inst\u2019 \u2013 obviously my organization are part-sponsors of this whole event, so \u2013\u2018 \u2018Your organization \u2013\u2018 \u2018The RAS \u2013 Rembrandt Appreciate \u2013 and I\u2019m sure I\u2019m not an innellekchewl, at least, as a fella like you might think of one\u2026\u2019 \u2018Yes, I\u2019m sure you\u2019re not,\u2019 murmured Howard. He found that his accent caused a delayed reaction in certain Americans. It was sometimes the next day before they realized how rude he had been to them. Forster dealt in social classes: the cultured intellectual Schlegells, the moneyed business people - the Wilcoxes, the working class man - Leonard Bast, who were all trying to bridge the gap between their classes; between literature and life \u2013 to \u2018only connect\u2019. In On Beauty Zadie Smith takes us to a college town in New England, and so her groups are Americans, Brits, whites, African-Americans, intellectuals and non-intellectuals, students and rappers, teenagers and their parents \u2013 all trying to find their place in the world, to connect or, as in Howard\u2019s case, work through a mid-life crisis. And as in White Teeth , she has created characters that jump off the page and really exist . But On Beauty shines much brighter than WT and NW, in my opinion. The novel was further from Howards End than I had expected but turned out to be a fantastic book in its own right, allusion to favourite novel or not. When I read her acknowledgements at the end, I nearly broke down (in gratitude? wonder? renewed and double appreciation of Forster and Zadie Smith?) This is what she writes: It should be obvious from the first line that this is a novel inspired by a love of E. M. Forster, to whom all my fiction is indebted, one way or the other. This time I wanted to repay the debt with hommage . ...more Why have I been put off by trying Zadie Smith in the past? Could it be the name of her books? With the names 'On Beauty', 'The Autograph Man', 'White Teeth' or even 'NW', could that have really been the reason why I hadn't read, much less really picked up anything by her? How superficial is that? I have a 'don't judge a book by it's cover' mentality merely because when one judges by the way it looks is ridiculous because I've found some completely ugly covers that have been great books and the o Why have I been put off by trying Zadie Smith in the past? Could it be the name of her books? With the names 'On Beauty', 'The Autograph Man', 'White Teeth' or even 'NW', could that have really been the reason why I hadn't read, much less really picked up anything by her? How superficial is that? I have a 'don't judge a book by it's cover' mentality merely because when one judges by the way it looks is ridiculous because I've found some completely ugly covers that have been great books and the opposite, but 'On Beauty'? With its simple cutesy curly cue type on front, the name that yells aesthetics (aesthetically speaking), it was one that was first picked up and not even flipped through, one that was put back onto the bookshelf without a second glance for quite some time. I picked this up out of curiosity, I picked it up because I wanted to go outside the box . This is one that I failed to even look at the excerpt or blurb to what it was about. I climbed onto it and rode on. This story is about the beauty of life and how beauty is completely relative in nature. This bi-racial, bi-cultural symbiosis between man and woman and their story of the world around them is well thought out, ingenious and realistic. Not only is it a story, plain and simple, set out forthwith without abstract meaning, it holds the key to what great story telling is all about: getting to the core of an issue and not hiding it behind a curtain. THIS IS IT, HERE I AM, TAKE IT OR LEAVE IT . The insecurities with our loved ones, our tendency to be doormats, raw emotion and lessons learned are all on display and this is what makes this a 5-star and not a 4-star. Anyone can write a book with a story such as this, but understanding what you're writing and knowing HOW to portray what you're writing in a way that it truly makes someone snicker like 'yeah, I know how that is'...that's what does it for me. ...more This is why Kiki had dreaded having girls: she knew she wouldn't be able to protect them from self-disgust. To that end she had tried banning television in the early years, and never had a lipstick or a woman's magazine crossed the threshold of the Belsey home to Kiki's knowledge, but these and other precautionary measures had made no difference. It was in the air , or so it seemed to Kiki, this hatred of women and their bodies - it seeped in with every draught in the house; people brought it hom This is why Kiki had dreaded having girls: she knew she wouldn't be able to protect them from self-disgust. To that end she had tried banning television in the early years, and never had a lipstick or a woman's magazine crossed the threshold of the Belsey home to Kiki's knowledge, but these and other precautionary measures had made no difference. It was in the air , or so it seemed to Kiki, this hatred of women and their bodies - it seeped in with every draught in the house; people brought it home on their shoes, they breathed it in off their newspapers. There was no way to control it. (p.198) There was nowhere to park. They had to leave the car several blocks from the party itself. Zora had specifically worn the shoes she was wearing because she had not anticipated any walking. To make progress she had to grip her brother around his waist, take little pigeon-steps and lean far back on her heels. For a long time Jerome restrained himself from commentary, but at the fourth pit stop he could keep silent no longer. \"I don't get you. Aren't you meant to be a feminist? Why would you cripple yourself like this?\" \"I like these shoes, OK? They actually make me feel powerful.\" (p.408) ...more While I did not absolutely hate this book, I really disliked it from the beginning and kept reading in hopes it would redeem itself. Alas, it did not. In fact, there really isn't many redeeming qualities in the story or the characters whatsoever. The book was written with some style, but as far as the storyline and the characters go, the book should have been called On Destruction...which is, as it seems to me to be, where every character was bent on going in their own oblivion. I did not have a While I did not absolutely hate this book, I really disliked it from the beginning and kept reading in hopes it would redeem itself. Alas, it did not. In fact, there really isn't many redeeming qualities in the story or the characters whatsoever. The book was written with some style, but as far as the storyline and the characters go, the book should have been called On Destruction...which is, as it seems to me to be, where every character was bent on going in their own oblivion. I did not have any sympathy for or empathy with any of them and that I think is a huge fault in the development. Furthermore, the colloquialisms in some of the dialogues were off; the scenes as well as the characters fell a little flat. ...more I heard so many rave reviews of Zadie Smith. But all were recommendations for her book White Teeth. I wanted to throw this disappointing book against the wall. The characters were stock and predictable. The liberal art history professor. The self-righteous college student. The woman poet. The \u201cuncle tom\u201d Black academic. The strong Black woman. And so on and so on. None of their actions were surprising. So many characters, so many missed opportunities to illustrate race relations. Needless to say I heard so many rave reviews of Zadie Smith. But all were recommendations for her book White Teeth. I wanted to throw this disappointing book against the wall. The characters were stock and predictable. The liberal art history professor. The self-righteous college student. The woman poet. The \u201cuncle tom\u201d Black academic. The strong Black woman. And so on and so on. None of their actions were surprising. So many characters, so many missed opportunities to illustrate race relations. Needless to say, I didn't care about any of them, even ones that I would ordinarily sympathize with. I did force myself to finish it, mostly because I wanted to see if anything would happen that I couldn\u2019t predict. In the end, Smith ties up the loose ends of the plot as if she were on deadline and her publisher is banging on the door, asking her for the advance back. Anyway, perhaps my expectations were just too high. I am still interested in reading White Teeth-I am an optimist. ...more I would probably give this book three and a half stars, which is not an option here. I thought it was well-written and had many interesting, memorable scenes, but the book did not really feel like a cohesive whole. The story follows an interracial family in an academic setting. The father is a white art history professor at a private liberal arts college in a fictional suburb of Boston; his wife is a black southern woman and they have three kids. The title \"On Beauty\" comes from a poem, which is I would probably give this book three and a half stars, which is not an option here. I thought it was well-written and had many interesting, memorable scenes, but the book did not really feel like a cohesive whole. The story follows an interracial family in an academic setting. The father is a white art history professor at a private liberal arts college in a fictional suburb of Boston; his wife is a black southern woman and they have three kids. The title \"On Beauty\" comes from a poem, which is quoted at one point during the book. The book did comment on different types and perceptions of beauty as well as different kinds of intelligence and intellectual styles. These themes are conveyed through the novel's many characters. For example, there is the wife, Kiki Belsey, a large black woman with beautiful skin who radiates with a goddess-like presence, who notes that people expect this like her as a black woman of her size. She is not in the academic world, but is perhaps the most emotionally intelligent character. Her husband Howard is an average-looking white middle-aged man, who struggles with finishing and publishing his academic scholarship and whose style tends to dispute common understandings about the art world. (His main thesis is that Rembrant wasn't really anything special, he was just painting to fulfill the requests of the clients who commissioned him.) Another professor, Claire Malcom, is a petite, thin white woman who wears no make-up and might seem not to care about her appearance, though it is revealed that she has been ordering salads almost her entire life, practices yoga in order to stay young and flexible, and pays careful attention to her bikini line. Claire is a poet and is somewhat looked down upon within her department for not being a \"real\" academic. Howard and Kiki's daughter Zora tries too hard in both respects. She spends considerable time getting ready in the morning and pledges at the beginning of the semester to swim everyday and lose weight. She also works inredibly hard in her classes (she is a sophomore at the fictional college, Wellington), but does not seem to have any real opinions of her own. What she lacks in natural beauty or talent, she makes up for with hard work and persistence. Similar analysis can be made for almost every character, some we barely meet at all. For instance, in the course of three pages we are introduced to a college freshman who was the academic star in her high school who is terrified to open her mouth in Howard's class for fear of saying something stupid. As quickly as she is introduced, she is gone, never to be mentioned again. This breadth of characters provides these various human idiosyncrasies, but in some ways damages the story as a whole, never letting us get to know one character or storyline in depth. ...more O que me cativa em Zadie Smith (1975) \u00e9 o mesmo que me cativa em Philip Roth, o virtuosismo na forma escrita, na argumenta\u00e7\u00e3o ficcional e nos di\u00e1logos estruturantes. Se Roth \u00e9 judeu, Smith \u00e9 multirracial, m\u00e3e negra jamaicana, pai branco ingl\u00eas, nascida em Londres, o que lhe permite trabalhar o mundo e os seus personagens a partir de uma perspectiva refrescantemente multicultural. O seu primeiro livro, \u201cDentes Brancos\u201d (2000), criou imensas expectativas quanto ao seu futuro, que se vieram a confi O que me cativa em Zadie Smith (1975) \u00e9 o mesmo que me cativa em Philip Roth, o virtuosismo na forma escrita, na argumenta\u00e7\u00e3o ficcional e nos di\u00e1logos estruturantes. Se Roth \u00e9 judeu, Smith \u00e9 multirracial, m\u00e3e negra jamaicana, pai branco ingl\u00eas, nascida em Londres, o que lhe permite trabalhar o mundo e os seus personagens a partir de uma perspectiva refrescantemente multicultural. O seu primeiro livro, \u201cDentes Brancos\u201d (2000), criou imensas expectativas quanto ao seu futuro, que se vieram a confirmar neste seu terceiro livro, ganhador do Orange Prize for Fiction e finalista do Man Booker Prize. [Sugiro ler com imagens no blog - http://virtual-illusion.blogspot.pt/2... ] Recorte da obra \"A Woman bathing in a Stream\" (1654) de Rembrandt, uma das chaves do livro. \u201cUma Quest\u00e3o de Beleza\u201d (2005) junta dois reconhecidos modelos da literatura, o \u201ccampus novel\u201d e a \u201ccr\u00f3nica de costumes\u201d para nos dar aquilo que podemos definir como s\u00e1tira acad\u00e9mica. Situada temporalmente no p\u00f3s 11/9, num vai-vem entre Londres e Boston, Zadie Smith abre uma janela para dissecar rela\u00e7\u00f5es de poder, envolvidas em ideologia pol\u00edtica (conservadores vs. liberais), por meio de duas fam\u00edlias do mundo acad\u00e9mico, dos seus pais e filhos, das suas ra\u00e7as, valores morais, sociais e intelectuais. O romance \u00e9 um verdadeiro frenesim, s\u00e3o tantos os temas, pontos de vista e antagonismos que enfrentamos, que por vezes nos custa a acreditar como conseguimos todos viver neste pequeno planeta. Mas \u00e9 exatamente desse frenesim que podemos dizer que emana o estilo Zadie Smith, como se o livro fosse uma tela e os personagens pinceladas de tinta, \u00f3leo espesso em jogos de misturas, criando um todo que se vai formando ao longo das 500 p\u00e1ginas. O livro deambula entre duas linhas de enredo principais: a rela\u00e7\u00e3o conflituosa entre dois acad\u00e9micos, Monty, o conservador negro, e Howard, o liberal branco; e a rela\u00e7\u00e3o de casal entre Howard e Kiki, a sua mulher, negra, na casa dos 110kg, n\u00e3o-acad\u00e9mica (enfermeira). Estas duas grandes linhas cruzam-se constantemente, e se de um ponto de vista de mais valia cultural podemos dizer que o conflito entre os dois acad\u00e9micos \u00e9 a ess\u00eancia, na verdade, a chave do livro est\u00e1 na rela\u00e7\u00e3o do casal, e podemos mesmo dizer, em Kiki, a n\u00e3o-acad\u00e9mica. Uma rela\u00e7\u00e3o de 30 anos, com 3 filhos adolescentes/adultos, aparentemente perfeita, est\u00e1 \u00e0 beira da ruptura, e de cada vez que Zadie Smith nos deixa a s\u00f3s com Kiki, \u00e9 como se o mundo se encerrasse ante tanta clarivid\u00eancia. O grande conflito entre Monti e Howard surge a partir de um artigo em que Monti, enquanto conservador, pretende convencer os colegas a retirar o termo liberal das artes liberais. Este termo conjunto foi usado na \u00e9poca medieval para definir os estudos universit\u00e1rios, ou estudos do pensamento abstracto \u2014 engloba: l\u00f3gica, gram\u00e1tica, ret\u00f3rica, aritm\u00e9tica, m\u00fasica, geometria e astronomia \u2014 opondo-se \u00e0s artes mec\u00e2nicas, que trabalham o mundo do f\u00edsico e concreto. A discuss\u00e3o n\u00e3o \u00e9 detalhada, e ainda bem, se n\u00e3o afastaria todos os n\u00e3o interessados no tema do livro, mas \u00e9 relevante, e obriga-nos a refletir. Excerto: \u201cLi o artigo dele de domingo no Herald sobre o tirar o \u201cliberal\u201d das Artes Liberais\u2026 sabe, ent\u00e3o agora \u00e9 como se andassem a tentar dizer-nos que os conservadores s\u00e3o uma esp\u00e9cie em vias de extin\u00e7\u00e3o \u2014 como se precisassem de protec\u00e7\u00e3o no campus ou coisa assim.\u201d Aqui Zora deu-se ao trabalho de revirar os olhos e sacudir a cabe\u00e7a e suspirar ao mesmo tempo. \u201cAparentemente, toda a gente tem tratamento especial \u2014 negros, gays, liberais, mulheres \u2014 toda a gente excepto os pobres machos brancos.\u201d p. 178 Excerto: \"[Rembrandt] um artes\u00e3o meramente competente que pintava o que quer que os seu ricos patronos solicitassem\u201d. Howard pediu aos seus estudantes que imaginassem o belo como a m\u00e1scara que o poder veste. Que reclassificassem a Est\u00e9tica como uma linguagem rarefeita de exclus\u00e3o. Prometeu-lhes uma cadeira que iria desafiar as cren\u00e7as deles na humanidade redentora daquilo que \u00e9 tratado habitualmente por \u201cArte\u201d. \u201cArte \u00e9 o mito ocidental\u201d, anunciou Howard, pelo sexto ano consecutivo, \u201ccom o qual nos consolamos como nos fazemos.\u201d\u201d p.185 At\u00e9 que ponto \u00e9 que aceitamos verdadeiramente estas duas vis\u00f5es do mundo, a conservadora e liberal? Nomeadamente, n\u00f3s acad\u00e9micos, que vemos o mundo a partir de uma matriz cient\u00edfica, que implica a constante renova\u00e7\u00e3o e refuta\u00e7\u00e3o do passado. Mesmo no campo das humanidades, como podemos aceitar o Belo? O liberal Howard, \u00e9 um caso cl\u00e1ssico, \u00e9 um acad\u00e9mico especialista em Rembrandt mas n\u00e3o gosta de Rembrandt, ali\u00e1s est\u00e1 mesmo \u00e0 beira de publicar um livro \u201cContra Rembrandt\u201d. Porqu\u00ea? Porque para si o belo n\u00e3o existe. Os alunos definem Howard, como o \u201cn\u00e3o gosta de tomates\u201d, porque \u00e9 o professor que n\u00e3o gosta de nada, que tudo desconstr\u00f3i, tudo discute, tudo compartimentaliza intelectualmente, mas nada verdadeiramente o afeta emocionalmente. O belo \u00e9 um artif\u00edcio conservador, \u00e9 antiprogressista, j\u00e1 que opera pela incrementa\u00e7\u00e3o, ou seja pela simples melhoria t\u00e9cnica do que j\u00e1 existe, enquanto o liberal, o progressista, procura constantemente o diferente, a ruptura. Mas a verdade \u00e9 que o pr\u00f3prio Monti, defensor m\u00e1ximo dos valores conservadores, pouco ou nada se envolve tamb\u00e9m com o Belo, porque no fundo, apesar de estarem em campos pol\u00edticos opostos, acabam seguindo a base motivacional da academia, movida pelas ambi\u00e7\u00f5es, focados em dar conta da sua pr\u00f3pria distin\u00e7\u00e3o intelectual, da sua capacidade para estar na frente do pensamento. Deste confronto emerge umas das mais fortes cr\u00edticas de Zadie Smith \u00e0 academia, j\u00e1 que ambos, Monti e Howard, vendo diferentes mundos, impondo diferentes ideologias \u00e0s suas fam\u00edlias, esqueceram que o mundo n\u00e3o \u00e9 uma equa\u00e7\u00e3o. Neste sentido, e apesar de se poder tentar colar o selo de p\u00f3s-moderno \u00e0 obra de Zadie Smith, ele fica-se pelos aspetos da multiculturalidade, j\u00e1 que segue todo um registo cl\u00e1ssico, tanto na forma \u2014 com a escrita a gritar pelo lado virtuoso \u2014 como por toda a base de discuss\u00e3o est\u00e9tica. Zadie Smith est\u00e1 aqui claramente \u00e0 procura de algo que o simples progressismo n\u00e3o lhe oferece, da\u00ed que lhe custe tanto aceitar a quebra dos la\u00e7os familiares, vendo o amor entre o casal como um n\u00facleo quase indestrut\u00edvel. O seu personagem, Kiki, assume a vida como um dar-se ao outro, uma escolha consciente, um sacrif\u00edcio de si em fun\u00e7\u00e3o da fam\u00edlia, que define para si o amor, o estar vivo. Howard, classicamente, segue todo o livro sem conseguir ver o belo na mulher, imbu\u00eddo do esp\u00edrito acad\u00e9mico que tudo disseca e com nada se envolve, acabando por ganhar consci\u00eancia de tudo isso num momento de reviravolta final, contida, mas intensa psicologicamente, em que Zadie Smith funde brilhantemente um quadro de Rembrandt e uma troca de olhares entre Kiki e Howard. No final da leitura, andei a ver os quadros e desenhos de Rembrandt mencionados ao longo do texto de Zadie Smith, e por isso aproveito para os deixar aqui, para quem quiser usar como guia durante a leitura, deixo-os por ordem aproximada de cita\u00e7\u00e3o no livro. Rembrandt, \"The Shipbuilder and his Wife\", 1633 Rembrandt, \"The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp\", 1632 Rembrandt, \"Jacob wrestling with the angel\", 1659 Rembrandt, \"Naked Woman Seated on a Mound\", 1631 Rembrandt, \"The Sampling Officials\", 1662 Rembrandt, \u201cA Woman bathing in a Stream\u201d, 1654 Deixo para o final os dois quadros que Carlene procura deixar em testamento a Kiki, um de Hopper e outro Hyppolite. Sobre o quadro de Hector Hyppolite, \u201cMai\u0302tresse Erzulie\u201d (~1940) \u00e9 particularmente interessante o modo como Zadie Smith trabalha o seu processo de reconhecimento, j\u00e1 que foi Andr\u00e9 Breton que numa passagem pelo Haiti, em 1945, descobriu as obras, adquiriu na altura um conjunto, provavelmente imensamente baratas, e lhes deu a fama que fariam destas, mais tarde, pe\u00e7as valiosas. Hector Hyppolite, \u201cMai\u0302tresse Erzulie\u201d, ~1940 E por fim o quadro de Edward Hopper, Edward Hopper, \"Road in Maine\", 1914 Publicado, com imagens, no blog - http://virtual-illusion.blogspot.pt/2... ...more This was my first Zadie Smith, but she has quite the reputation and she is widely read, so I don't think I need to talk about her writing (excellent), the plot (interesting and original retelling), or the characters (multi-layed, real). I was most interested in what the novel is saying about the academy, about art, and about taste. I look forward to filming a proper video review. I requested this book from our public library because I have obtained a ticket to her Zadie Smith speak at our University in February 2016. I think it will be a lively evening! Zadie Smith is a shrewd observer of the human condition. And she takes a good hard poke at the idea that knowledge and art can be somehow value-neutral, that we can ignore the purpose of the person who created a piece of art (I think that\u2019s post-modernism?). One of her main characters, Howard Belsey, is a college professor I requested this book from our public library because I have obtained a ticket to her Zadie Smith speak at our University in February 2016. I think it will be a lively evening! Zadie Smith is a shrewd observer of the human condition. And she takes a good hard poke at the idea that knowledge and art can be somehow value-neutral, that we can ignore the purpose of the person who created a piece of art (I think that\u2019s post-modernism?). One of her main characters, Howard Belsey, is a college professor who teaches art history. But Howard is completely unnerved by expressions of firm belief and strong emotion. His lectures are virtually incomprehensible in their refusal to discuss the beauty of the works, the purpose of the artist, or response of the viewer. The students of the college describe the various college courses in terms of tomatoes\u2014a history course becomes Tomatoes 1867-1967, for example. Howard\u2019s student, Victoria, nails his reluctance to grant value to love, beauty, or truth when she describes his art history class to him: But your class\u2014your class is a cult classic. Your class is all about never ever saying I like the tomato \u2026Because tomatoes are not there to be liked \u2026Your tomatoes have nothing to do with love or truth . They\u2019re not fallacies. They\u2019re just these pretty pointless tomatoes that people for totally selfish reasons of their own, have attached cultural\u2014I should say nutritional --weight to. The irony is that an art history professor is completely unable to recognize or appreciate the beauty in art or in his own life. He is disconnected from his family and out of touch with other college faculty. He has had an affair with a woman about whom he cares nothing (and she, if possible, cares even less about him) out of sheer thoughtlessness. Because he has espoused this value-free existence (absolutely no religion, no Christmas, etc.) he is seemingly unable to resist doing the wrong thing, frequently. (Mind you, the religious characters fare no better in Smith\u2019s tale). Howard\u2019s part of the story is just that\u2014only a part. Smith also gives us a window into his wife, Kiki\u2019s, world as well as their children, Jerome, Zora and Levi. All of them have to find what they will and will not live with, what they will do with their lives. Kiki must decide whither her marriage will go, Zora whether she will follow in her father\u2019s academic footsteps, Levi whether he identifies with the middle class or with Haitian immigrants. Of all of the family, Jerome seems to be the clearest of purpose, although things certainly don\u2019t begin that way. Smith writes gorgeously. Her insights into our interpersonal communication difficulties are right on the money. Because the Belsey family are mixed-race and middle-class, she is able to explore race and class issues effectively as well. An excellent novel and I am very much looking forward to hearing Ms. Smith speak in February. ...more I know very little about art, but this novel sparked a momentary interest in paintings for me; I looked up every one referenced in the text. If you're reading it, I really recommend you do the same, as it adds a lot of texture to the narrative (as hideously poncey as that sounds - and yes, that is exactly how my university tutor put it. She was right. She pronounces 'texture' 'textyaaah'.) If you only take a look at two paintings associated with this novel, the ones to check out would be: 1. The I know very little about art, but this novel sparked a momentary interest in paintings for me; I looked up every one referenced in the text. If you're reading it, I really recommend you do the same, as it adds a lot of texture to the narrative (as hideously poncey as that sounds - and yes, that is exactly how my university tutor put it. She was right. She pronounces 'texture' 'textyaaah'.) If you only take a look at two paintings associated with this novel, the ones to check out would be: 1. The Maitresse Erzulie \u201cShe represents love, beauty, purity, the ideal female and the moon...and she's the myst\u00e8re of jealousy, vengeance and discord, AND, on the other hand, of love, perpetual help, goodwill, health, beauty and fortune.\u201d The moment in the novel when this painting is discussed by Carlene and Kiki has so many layers, it's hard to really identify them all. Really, the picture just reinforces the idea throughout that the most incredibly beauty is often hidden in plain sight. This valuable painting on Carlene's wall that very few know about, and Kiki's rare beauty that passes unnoticed due to her status as an overwrought mother and supporter of her high maintenance husband. However where Carlene fades into her partner, Kiki flourishes; she is truly the Maitresse Erzulie, with her glorious colours, her free-flying birds and her confident posture. 2. Hendrickje Bathing \u201cThis is what a woman is: unadorned, after children and work and age, and experience-these are the marks of living.\u201d Howard, the verbose university lecturer, has perhaps the most important journey in this novel, and it is this painting that hits him between the eyes. His career is to dissect and deconstruct paintings, leaving their meaning bear for students and intellectuals; but after the events of the novel, when all is said and done, this painting leaves him silent. This moment is one of the most moving I've come across in any novel; it's about beauty, something that can't be deconstructed, something that isn't it's parts in isolation, cold on an examination table. It's something else, and appropriately, that something leaves him speechless. For, frankly, the first time in the entire novel. This definitely made me want to read more Zadie Smith novels, she has a very modern voice, but there is a very distinct traditional note in her writing. As far as I am aware, she is very much influenced by E. M. Forster, and this lightness comes through in her writing. Don't be fooled, however; she tackles some Goliath issues, appearing to dance over them like a slightly mocking ballerina, without dipping too far into satire. ...more Zadie Smith's deep and beautiful insight into the lives of undeep and unbeautiful people is astoundingly brilliant (yes, I am aware that I just made those words up. Let's just call it poetic license). The book's angle is a pretty simple one: the reader follows the movements of the various members of the Belsey family, and those they come into contact with, over the course of a year or so, and begins to form an insight into how they interact with the world and the people around them. In reality, i Zadie Smith's deep and beautiful insight into the lives of undeep and unbeautiful people is astoundingly brilliant (yes, I am aware that I just made those words up. Let's just call it poetic license). The book's angle is a pretty simple one: the reader follows the movements of the various members of the Belsey family, and those they come into contact with, over the course of a year or so, and begins to form an insight into how they interact with the world and the people around them. In reality, it is so much more than this. The Belsey family - comprising of an African American mother, a Caucasian father and three mixed-race children - all struggle with an identity crisis that centres around a multitude of things including their race, gender and their place in the academic world of Wellington (a thinly veiled Harvard) that they reside in. The complex issues that this novel confronts forced me to confront myself as more than a self-contained entity. We are all so much more than individual beings. Who are we is denoted by our heritage, our ancestry, our upbringing, our peers... We are an amalgamation of everything that came before us and everything we come into contact with, but it is how we process and respond to these factors that defines who we are as a person. And we are all a walking political statement for something, whether we like it or not. As the characters begin their individual journeys of self-discovery, I departed on one of my own. This book helped me to think about my own place in my own society: every thing I touch and everything that has touched me, no matter how seemingly insignificant, has all made up the person who sits here and writes this today. If anyone is still reading this self-absorbed waffling then I urge you to pick up and read this book. It touched me soul, and I hope it does yours. ...more I try to summarize this book for people, and I find that I really can't do it. The story, when you try to outline it, seems much too short to be stretched out across 443 pages. Here is my best attempt at summary: The story takes place mostly at a fictional East Coast college in the US, although some of the story happens in London. There are two feuding families of academia, but the only pair that even slightly resembles Romeo and Juliet are the two mothers. The book is about race, poetry, art, Ha I try to summarize this book for people, and I find that I really can't do it. The story, when you try to outline it, seems much too short to be stretched out across 443 pages. Here is my best attempt at summary: The story takes place mostly at a fictional East Coast college in the US, although some of the story happens in London. There are two feuding families of academia, but the only pair that even slightly resembles Romeo and Juliet are the two mothers. The book is about race, poetry, art, Haiti, sex, marriage, college, poverty, wealth, politics, Rembrandt, Mozart's Lacrimosa , rap music, death, and a million other tiny things I've probably forgotten. It is funny and sad and beautiful and ugly and loud and quiet and vulgar and touching, and is full of lines like this: \"...it is never really very cold in England. It is drizzly, and the wind will blow; hail happens, and there is a breed of Tuesday in January in which time creeps and no light comes and the air is full of water and nobody really loves anybody, but still a decent jumper and a waxen jacket lined with wool is sufficient for every weather England's got to give.\" ...more Character is plot, anyway, says the man behind Darconville's Cat . On Beauty does just fine with its characters. But, \"A character for me is any linguistic location of a book toward which a great part of the rest of the text stands as a modifier\" says the man behind The Tunnel . I'll grant her the characters, but the language through which those characters are constituted verges upon clich\u00e9. Too harsh I know ; the novel reads too easily, slickly. And I know ZS does better. There is nothing here ; Character is plot, anyway, says the man behind Darconville's Cat . On Beauty does just fine with its characters. But, \"A character for me is any linguistic location of a book toward which a great part of the rest of the text stands as a modifier\" says the man behind The Tunnel . I'll grant her the characters, but the language through which those characters are constituted verges upon clich\u00e9. Too harsh I know ; the novel reads too easily, slickly. And I know ZS does better. There is nothing here ; to orchestra a novel's polyphony one needs to do more than place a bit of argot in the mouths of a few characters. This one here, despite its promising title, is a mere ordinary lit=fic novel. ...more Aaargh. I didn't want to like this book. I tried hard not to like it but there is no escaping that fact that as precocious as she is, Zadie Smith is a damn fine writer. It's a family drama but there aren\u2019t omnipotent judgments or proselytizing about the book\u2019s larger issues of race, love, and elitism. An interracial couple struggles through the middle years of their marriage and the awkward social integration of their mixed children. Smith\u2019s portrayal of a relationship falling apart is nothing ne Aaargh. I didn't want to like this book. I tried hard not to like it but there is no escaping that fact that as precocious as she is, Zadie Smith is a damn fine writer. It's a family drama but there aren\u2019t omnipotent judgments or proselytizing about the book\u2019s larger issues of race, love, and elitism. An interracial couple struggles through the middle years of their marriage and the awkward social integration of their mixed children. Smith\u2019s portrayal of a relationship falling apart is nothing new but her descriptions of it are eerily accurate and cause an uncomfortable shifting for those of us who recognize the agonizing stages of falling out of love and the sometimes futile attempt at trying to find it again. Ms. Smith is equally adept at her depiction of the kids living in a predominantly white, intellectually elite culture and the two trying to come to terms with what it means to be Black and their slow approach to the question of whether or not one should despite outside pressures. The family\u2019s struggle is juxtaposed against another family that is bonded together by religious and social self-righteousness with their demons well hidden and their self-destruction implosive. Beautiful. Accurate. Well done. Damn you, Zadie Smith. ...more Zadie Smith's book On Beauty is about two families on opposing sides of the culture war: The atheist, liberal Belseys on one side and the ultra-religious, ultra-conservative Kipps' on the other. It's also about race and racial identity: black versus white and the influx of poor Haitian immigrants into Boston. It's about Howard Belsey's affair with an old friend of the family and his wife Kiki's attempts to deal with it. It's about Kiki's developing friendship with Carlene Kipps, the wife of her Zadie Smith's book On Beauty is about two families on opposing sides of the culture war: The atheist, liberal Belseys on one side and the ultra-religious, ultra-conservative Kipps' on the other. It's also about race and racial identity: black versus white and the influx of poor Haitian immigrants into Boston. It's about Howard Belsey's affair with an old friend of the family and his wife Kiki's attempts to deal with it. It's about Kiki's developing friendship with Carlene Kipps, the wife of her husband's sworn enemy. All in all, it's not my thing, but it's a stunning example of something that's not my thing. I don't go for domestic drama - I find it too mundane - but I quite enjoyed this one. And that's really almost everything I have to say about it, my other comments being somewhat tangential. I really liked the dialogue. It's real, it's energetic, it's got heart. It's so strong you can almost hear the characters' voices in your head. On the other hand, I didn't think the characterisation was particularly good. I didn't have a clear picture of any of the characters by the end, which is pretty pathetic. A culture divide, perhaps? I think it probably was. I couldn't take them seriously because they used the word 'totally' too often. Here in Melbourne, Australia we (or at least, the people in my speech community) use 'totally' either in its original sense ('fully', 'completely') or as a joke, a parody of some American stereotype we don't really understand. Like \"omg, you should, like, totally dye your hair orange! It would be like soooooo great.\" Dripping with sarcasm. In On Beauty they use it liberally in the slang sense, which is similar to my example above, except minus the sarcasm. They're serious about it, but I can't take it seriously. It really put me off. Then there's the whole black/white thing. The extent of the racial divide shocked me. Again, here in Melbourne NO ONE CARES. One could argue it's because there are very few black people, and that a similar thing happens between whites and Asians instead, but it was just weird for me. In On Beauty , no one could just be \"a person\". They had to be \"a white person\", \"a black person\". Like their race was just as important a factor as their status as a human being. That really distracted me too. It was mainly those cultural thingies that interested me about the book. It was funny, I guess, and sometimes depressing, but not at all the sort of thing I'd usually read and all in all rather disappointing considering its reputation. ...more i loved, loved white teeth. i did not like on beauty. i'm afraid zadie smith wasn't able to capture american-speak very well. kiki has southern roots and, at times, she supposedly \"went florida\" in her speech and mannerism, but this was something smith simply stated rather than demonstrated. i could excuse levi's not entirey successful attempts at urban dialogue given his suburban/academic family background, but not carl's. maybe i'm extra critical b/c, in a past life, i spent some time in the s i loved, loved white teeth. i did not like on beauty. i'm afraid zadie smith wasn't able to capture american-speak very well. kiki has southern roots and, at times, she supposedly \"went florida\" in her speech and mannerism, but this was something smith simply stated rather than demonstrated. i could excuse levi's not entirey successful attempts at urban dialogue given his suburban/academic family background, but not carl's. maybe i'm extra critical b/c, in a past life, i spent some time in the spoken word scene, but carl was a shell of an idea rather than an authentic, believable character. whatisname's assistant, the other southerner, really showed some of smith's weakness in writing regional/cultural dialects. one \"accented\" word in a character's sentence - e.g. \"pahpoint\" - w/o keen attention to how other more common words should be spoken does not make for very convincing dialogue. i was so distracted by the characters' inauthentic language that i didn't have the patience/interest to hone in on the themes about beauty...which seemed a bit shallow anyhow. ok, the fat character is sympathetic and fun and smart and good-looking despite her rolls...the thin beautiful character is too often taken merely at face value and people don't make much of an effort to get to know her beyond that...but the reader can't get to know her beyond that b/c smith also isn't interested in her other than for her looks. the good stuff: the father felt genuine and gave an honest look at academic/intellectual pursuits when stagnant. his thoughts about his family and marriage also felt real and were interesting to me, especially b/c...well b/c i'm not a man and he seemed to offer a real \"man's\" (albeit an older man's) point of view. i thought his musings on his relationship w/ kiki were more thoroughly drawn out than kiki's, interesting since smith is herself a woman. kudos to her for being able to represent the husband so well. (though i wonder if a male reader would disagree about smith's success with that.) ...more just as my idealized fantasies about academic life were getting a little out of control, the characters in this book come along to make me realize academics can be just as gross as lawyers at times. i also realize i have never read a book about a professor-family before. in the middle of the book, i told someone that i didn't like any of the characters (except for levi, who is amazing), yet i liked the book - which speaks well for the author. by the end, i liked the characters more. the black ch just as my idealized fantasies about academic life were getting a little out of control, the characters in this book come along to make me realize academics can be just as gross as lawyers at times. i also realize i have never read a book about a professor-family before. in the middle of the book, i told someone that i didn't like any of the characters (except for levi, who is amazing), yet i liked the book - which speaks well for the author. by the end, i liked the characters more. the black characters i think intentionally represent a really varied spectrum of black \"types\", though i think some of them were less well-developed than i wish they had been. i felt this was sometimes about kiki, and also about chantelle. but she did such a great job with levi -- the one most likely to be caricatured - that i forgive it. i haven't read white teeth, but several people i know like this book better. it's the kind of book that probably merits a second read because of all of its layers, a welcome change from the semi-crap i have been reading. another reviewer said that zadie smith can't quite get the hang of american english dialogue. i did notice this a little bit. in particular, all characters would very often say \"et cetera\" in casual conversation. who says that? and her urban-black-boston characters would say that things were \"scene\" [instead of cool:], which - again - i have never heard. ...more Deliciously brutal take on how class, race and gender are actually dealt with in the society of academia. Excellent stuff if you're into that sort of thing. At any rate, Smith again makes good on her gift for making the reader feel tenderly towards her reliably flawed protagonists. The impulse to gush inarticulately about this book is very overwhelming, but to do so simply to get it out of my system is to do it an injustice. The second impulse I have is to try to revisit my University years and invoke the language of all those fuddy-duddy critical theorists (or, to go easier on my own poor brain, my professors) in order to disect a book about academia. This is much easier to resist, as the more difficult path of the two, though I do want to say right now that, like most of The impulse to gush inarticulately about this book is very overwhelming, but to do so simply to get it out of my system is to do it an injustice. The second impulse I have is to try to revisit my University years and invoke the language of all those fuddy-duddy critical theorists (or, to go easier on my own poor brain, my professors) in order to disect a book about academia. This is much easier to resist, as the more difficult path of the two, though I do want to say right now that, like most of my reviews, this will be rambling, emotion-based, and any attempts to be critical will probably fall short of really getting to the nub of this wonderful book. There, that's my disclaimer, so don't expect this to help you write an essay on it! Apparently this is a modern version of E.M. Forster's Howard's End , which I've never read, though I have seen the movie a few times and I found it quite depressing. But a friend did recommend that I read Howard's End first, which I didn't do, and I don't think it's necessary. On Beauty is about the Belseys and the Kipps and the somewhat run-of-the-mill feuding between the two families. Howard Belsey, a white, British, snobby in a liberal-arts kind of way, academic, married Kiki, an African-American who inherited a gorgeous old house in the better part of a town called Wellington, near Boston. They have three children: Jerome, a born-again Christian; Zora, a stubborn, persistent academic-in-the-making; and Levi, a teenager who pretends to be from the Hood and speaks Gangsta. The story follows this family, for the most part, over the course of a couple of years as affairs come to light, university politics take over, friendships are formed and broken, and paintings are stolen. The other family, the Kipps', is ruled over in a totalitarian way by Monty Kipps, another academic, black, British, snobby in a conservative way, with the complete opposite views from liberal-arts Howard. His wife, Carlene, is a kind and gentle soul who believes she lives for love, for her family, and not for herself - she encapsulates all the old-world traditions of what a wife should be and sets the bar very, very high. Their children, Michael and Victoria, are well-bred and attractive. Michael is a familiar character, just like his father and a bit scary too. Victoria is a beauty who deflowers Jerome and later has an affair with Howard (of course, her brother still believes she's a virgin). All the characters have a pretty high opinion about themselves which don't really match their real life existence. Politics, racial tensions and gender issues play an important part in this book - which is why, apart from the university setting, you feel the expectation to critically analyse it, to match its cleverness, but since it's been a number of years since I've had to do anything of the kind, I'm not going to bother trying. Yes, this book is smarter than me, Zadie Smith is smarter than me, and a better writer - though, to be fair, it's never a good idea to compare writers or writing styles, but it's a persistent human flaw to compare ourselves to others, and does us little good. Wit, irony and quotable lines abound, and while the characters have been called \"unlikeable\", the Belseys come off better than the Kipps'. Kiki especially is a lovely character, her large body praised as beautiful, and she too says \"I gave up my life for you\" to Howard - she is not the opposite of Carlene, but more of a realistic, contemporary version - or not version, that robs her of her self, but you know what I mean. The family dynamics are very believable, not at all depressing, nor black-and-white. No one character is presented as being completely dispicable (except perhaps Monty Kipps), but the Belseys are a complex bunch. Each has their strengths and weaknesses, their infuriating habits and nicer side. Howard, arguably the main character, is given some background - mother dying when he was young, unable to communicate with his father who didn't even want him to go to uni - but its not presented as some kind of excuse for his behaviour. None of them are excusable, they simply are. I think most readers would see similarities between the Belseys and their own families, not in likenesses, but in the sibling fights and moments of closeness and generosity, the natural flow of language, the underlying understandings based on years and years of knowing each other, close contact, prior history. This is what Zadie Smith has excelled at: presenting humans naturally, realistically, without being in the slightest way boring, forced, pushy or mundane. The dialogue itself is a joy to read, a true triumph at writing how we actually speak without it sounding forced and tiresome. The twists and turns in conversation, the breaks and pauses, the short-cuts, the jumps, they're all there, but presented so well that it reads smoothly. Even Levi's ridiculous \"gangsta\" speak, and his cringe-worthy conversations with young black men who really are from the poorer areas, and refugees from Haiti, are instead quite beautiful. Levi is a surprisingly strong, sympathetic character, and a book just about him could easily be written. He encapsulates an entire generation, both black and white, of political ignorance and innocence, of a search for a feeling of belonging and identity. It is through this character that international politics - the situation in Haiti and class divisions - is explored, but explored as a character in itself, an aspect of numerous characters. For there isn't a strong sense of world events in this book, of a world outside the two families so hopelessly entangled, but through them you can see a wider world is there, peeked at as most of us do, in little asides and glances, not really dealt with, largely ignored, denied. Howard, let me go back to Howard, since he is one of the only protagonists in the book. At one point, he remembers how Kiki wants him to put aside his academic-speak and use her personal-speak at home, and how much he hates that. Howard, a delight in mockery, cannot separate the two, and is a true academic. There are countless classic quotes in this book, but one scene was especially typical: they are at the park for a Mozart concert, during which Zora, naturally, has her discman on and is listening to a professor \"carefully guide her through the movements\". When they get up to leave, she accidentally takes someone else's discman, a young black man called Carl, and their conversation at the gates is superb. There is so much more I could say about this book, but that would take up way too much space. On the negative side - since I know I'm often blinded to flaws in books I enjoy - I don't really have any comments. The only thing I can think of, and this is pretty is weak, is that while Smith uses British English when talking from the POV of a British character, like Howard, she switches almost seamlessly to Americanised English for the other characters - not just in their dialogue but in the narrative as well - only, sometimes I think she slips here, and the two \"languages\" get all messed up. That said, perhaps it's deliberate, a metaphor, or a side-effect of the characters being a bit of both. I don't know. This book, perhaps because its author is British, connected to me. I don't think it could have been written by an American to the same success. Beneath it all, there's something very British about it all. This could be because Howard's voice is the most visited, and some of the other characters seem more like caricatures - a-ha!! have found a possible weakness!! - but the self-deprecating mockery and irony is not something you find in many American texts, if any. It was in A Short History of Tractors in Ukrainian as well, and it is prevalent in British TV shows and movies, which I grew up on, thanks to the good ol' ABC, so perhaps that's why I found this book so comfortable and ... familiar, even though it's not my world. Another possible weakness - wow, I'm really on a roll here! - is that Smith takes on perhaps too much. Although I don't personally think so, and I love the insight into the academic world (academic politics really put me off being a post-grad, not to mention the disappointment I felt at finding out how they turn on each other), it is a bit crowded with issues. For me, On Beauty is like a vivid tapestry that, from the back of the room, is a cognizent whole, but up close the larger picture is taken up with numerous tiny details which would take a lifetime to study and comprehend. As a lover of jigsaw puzzles and, when I was a kid, Where's Wally books, I enjoy this, and I think she made it work. Other people might feel overwhelmed, or pissed-off at the hoity-toity-ness of the characters, who can be pretty infuriating. But their flaws are intrinsic to their nature, and I love that while drama happens, it's not presented in a melodrammatic way - or, as my mum would say, it's not \"self-indulgent crap\". And before I get ten different people all recommending her first book, White Teeth , let me quickly say: I have it, I will read it when I get a chance, don't you worry! And to them I will say: Please, read this one too. It's, well, it's simply wonderful, not to mention funny. ...more \u2018On Beauty\u2019 explores the lives of the Belsey family-the father Howard, a self-absorbed and somewhat unlikeable academic, his long-suffering African-American wife Kiki and their three children; Jerome, Zora and Levi. All of the characters are struggling beneath the weight of expectations which society places on them-in fact, Smith is able to brilliantly explore dynamics of race and gender in modern day America without resorting to clich\u00e9d or hackneyed characters. In fact, it is Smith\u2019s ability to \u2018On Beauty\u2019 explores the lives of the Belsey family-the father Howard, a self-absorbed and somewhat unlikeable academic, his long-suffering African-American wife Kiki and their three children; Jerome, Zora and Levi. All of the characters are struggling beneath the weight of expectations which society places on them-in fact, Smith is able to brilliantly explore dynamics of race and gender in modern day America without resorting to clich\u00e9d or hackneyed characters. In fact, it is Smith\u2019s ability to create well-rounded characters is her greatest strength as a novelist, as she is able to expertly draw you into the world her characters inhabit. The relationship between Howard and Kiki forms the crux of the novel-in many ways their relationships sum up the roles and expectation of men and women within modern, Western patriarchal culture. Howard, who lurches from one infidelity to another, rarely thinks about how is infidelities affect Kiki, but instead is more concerned with how they affect himself-will Kiki stop loving him? Why don\u2019t Kiki forgive him? Or, as in the case of both Howard and his friend, Eskrine, the blame is pushed onto the woman: it is the fault of their wives that they are not beautiful or lascivious enough, hence them pursuing affairs with other women-if only their wives were more beautiful or interesting then they would not need to have an affair-even outside individuals, such as Howard\u2019s children, seek to blame their mother for being highly-strung or of over-reacting over the affair-after all their father is a man and this is what men are supposed to do. In contrast to the emotional immaturity of most of the male characters, the female characters, such as Kiki or Carlene Kipps, display an emotionally maturity and the ability to put the needs of others ahead of themselves which most of the other characters lack-in fact, the three emotionally strongest characters in the novel are probably the three black, female characters, Kiki, Charlene and Victoria Kipps, all three are Black women trapped within the myriad of prejudices and expectations which society expects or demands from them yet all, with varying degrees of success, are overcome and triumph over these expectations. In many ways Kiki reminds me of Mrs Dalloway- a selfless but emotionally unfulfilled woman who is haunted at having to give up every single part of herself to other people and like Mrs Dalloway, Kiki is sexually curious about other women. Smith explores the burdens attached to the labels society imposes on women- \u2018mother\u2019, \u2018wife\u2019 or as in the case of Kiki, Charlene and Victoria \u2018black woman\u2019 and how difficult it can be for women to overcome these labels-although none of the characters ever wholly overcome them any small triumphs they achieve are commendable. The novel also explores race in modern American society. All three Belsey children are mixed-race and struggle to assimilate between \u2018White\u2019 and \u2018Black\u2019 cultures. The eldest, Jerome, briefly falls under the spell of Monty Kipps, the villain of the story, an ultra-conservative Black academic who displays a vitriolic self-hatred of minorities and liberal programmes such as affirmative action. For Monty there is no bias or prejudice against minorities in modern society and if there any it is the fault of minorities in being unable to assimilate to White, Western culture. Monty represents the self-hatred which individuals from ethnic minorities are expected to display towards their own cultures and to themselves in order to suceed within academic or other privileged Western circles-unless you actively deny your own culture and sense of ethnicity, you will never be truly accepted within certain circles of Western society. Zora, meanwhile, is slightly more successful in assimilating, although her sense of self-hatred is as complete as Monty Kipps\u2019s it is more subtle and insidious and subtle, but is displayed in her disparagement of anything which represents African-American culture against the parochial views of American academia. Indeed, Smith brilliantly explores the narrow-minded and insular nature of American academia, in which academics who often come from privileged, White backgrounds actively segregate themselves via individuals from different background via their use of esoteric, academic language and ideas, which have little to no practical value outside of universities. Levi, on the other hand, is the one who sincerely develops a sense of black consciousness-although on the one hand his attempts to come across as \u2018street\u2019 or \u2018ghetto\u2019 or faintly ridiculous given his middle-class upbringing, his character is a reflection of the fact that society sees him as a black man (and all the baggage which goes along with this) first and foremost, irrespective of his upbringing and so he actively seeks to act within the narrow confines which society imposes on him. Yet, unlike his siblings, he is unwilling to act contemptuously towards Black culture and so he exists on the periphery of society. The novel also contains a wonderful series of side characters-from the spoken word poet Carl, who for Zora and Levi represents an authentic experience of Black American culture, to the eccentric yet wonderful poetess Claire, in many ways it is the secondary characters who provide the real depth to \u2018On Beauty\u2019. My main gripe with the novel is the somewhat hackneyed, Dickensian conclusion to the plot point surrounding the missing painting-I feel such contrived scenarios are beneath a novelist as talented as Zadie Smith and represents a small blip on an otherwise brilliant nov ...more About a month ago I stumbled on a sidewalk sale where, between cheese curd vendors, a 5-year-old magician with a stunning vocabulary and hippies juggling sticks, I found some castoffs from the public library: $1 for trade paper; $0.50 for mass market. I was in a rush. There was an Italian sausage calling my name half a block away. (\"Meat me. Meat me.\") But I like books. And typically I spend 25 times more for them than what the library was asking. So I deferred to my nemesis \"thrift,\" and I dove About a month ago I stumbled on a sidewalk sale where, between cheese curd vendors, a 5-year-old magician with a stunning vocabulary and hippies juggling sticks, I found some castoffs from the public library: $1 for trade paper; $0.50 for mass market. I was in a rush. There was an Italian sausage calling my name half a block away. (\"Meat me. Meat me.\") But I like books. And typically I spend 25 times more for them than what the library was asking. So I deferred to my nemesis \"thrift,\" and I dove in. This was easy. Three carts filled front and back. I scanned the titles quickly: Dud. Dud. Religious fiction. Airport lit. Around me, people were carefully browsing, yanking books off shelves, reading the back, building piles. I was lapping them, two, three times over. The fools, I thought. You have no idea. Cheap crime novels and menopause lit. WHO ARE YOU PEOPLE! DO YOU EVEN THINK ABOUT THE WORDS YOU PUT IN YOUR HEAD!? And then I found Zadie Smith's On Beauty. I liked White Teeth, although ask me what it was about and I'll distract you with a coughing fit. (Sometimes \"good\" isn't enough to keep me from plot amnesia). I handed over my buck, happy to help the library buy something nice and hopefully put my name on it. As I made tracks toward the meat stand, I was super impressed with myself. There I was, on day three of a book sale, eying the picked over remains. AND I found something good. Something the dull, untrained eyes my fellow readers had passed over for whatever reason that is none of my business. I re-visited the entire scene. My dexterity with the task. My skilled gaze, like someone who scouts antiques or appraises art. The way my hand instinctively made a grab for the gem of the collection. My poker face as I handed over the single bill, never revealing that I would have gone as high as $3, maybe even $5. At the root of On Beauty are two fundamentally different families running parallel: The Belsey family is liberal, and find religious affiliation laughable. Father Howard is a white Englishman, married to Kiki, who is black. Their children are Zora, an overachieving college student, more right brained than left, although bent on living an artistic life, Levi, a high school student interested in street culture, and Jerome, who is trying to filter through his up bringing to figure out what values to take into the real world. The Kipps, who are more in the background of the story as foils to the Belsey family, are black conservative Christians. Monty argues against affirmative action and conducts family breakfasts. His ailing wife is a \"stand by your mom\" figure. His daughter Victoria is operating under a chaste, virginal facade, but is a stunning-looking head-turner of a woman. His son finds a shiny woman who accessorizes with a cross necklace to marry. Both Howard Belsey and Monty Kipps, the family fathers, are involved in art critique, and teach at the college level. They spar publicly over differences in opinion about Rembrandt. Their worlds collide when Jerome Belsey takes a job with Monty Kipps, and becomes enamored with the family. The exposure leaves him hungry for Christianity, and throbbing for Victoria -- whom he intends to ask to marry him in a quaint Jane Austin-meets-technology sort of way. The shit hits the fan, there is some humiliation involved, and Howard extracts his son from the Kipps' world. Throughout the book, the families become even more entwined when Monty Kipps takes a job at the small liberal arts college where Howard doesn't have tenure. Their wives develop a supersecret friendship, despite and because of their political differences; Victoria Kipps oozes into Howard's art history class and tries to, ahem, befriend the instructor. Adding to the layers of plot: Howard Belsey is in the doghouse over a three-week fling with a lifelong friend, a creative writing instructor at the university. His daughter Zora uses this info to get into the woman's class; Levi Belsey has taken up with some Haitians and becomes embroiled in the community's political struggles; A street poet named Carl becomes Zora's pet project, and a reason to wear unflatteringly tight clothing. Monty Kipps, meanwhile, has a few shady secrets of his own. This is such a meaty, layered and satisfying story told from multiple perspectives. There are some flinchingly honest scenes capable of making a reader squirm. When Kiki and Howard finally address his infidelity, Kiki screams at him about sleeping with a woman who is her antithesis: \"You married a big black bitch and you run off with a fucking leprechaun?\" she cries. As meekly responds: \"Well, I married a slim black woman, actually. Not that it's relevant.\" Yowch. And when Howard is damn-near forced to stick it to a young coed, she performs a choreography of grunts and moans and dirty talk, a truly embarrassing show of what she seems to think is sexuality. Now she began to unbutton his shirt slowly, as if accompanying music were playing, and seemed disappointed not to find a pornographic rug of hair here. she rubbed it conceptually, as if the hair were indeed there, tugging at what little Howard possessed while -- could it be -- purring. ... And then came more of this purring and moaning, although his hands had not yet reached her breasts ... Zadie Smith is so so good at building a story, forming characters, and developing a mix of honesty, realism and humor. Although this might be to a fault: It is so genuine, that I'm not sure I'll remember this one any better than I remember White Teeth. ...more<---C>Zadie Smith</---C>", "Title": "On Beauty"},
