{"Comments": "<+++>Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith</+++>I don't know where to start with this book -- I couldn't put it down.<---F> It was enthralling</---F>. A quick note about Krakauer: this was the first book I've read by him and I was duly impressed with his story telling ability and his writing style. I will definitely add his other books to my reading list. Now for the book -- holy shit! Like most people I didn't know much about Mormons beyond the basics. And let it be known right off the bat that I am a devout athiest who thinks all religions are a load of I don't know where to start with this book -- I couldn't put it down. It was enthralling. A quick note about Krakauer: this was the first book I've read by him and I was duly impressed with his story telling ability and his writing style. I will definitely add his other books to my reading list. Now for the book -- holy shit! Like most people I didn't know much about Mormons beyond the basics. And let it be known right off the bat that I am a devout athiest who thinks all religions are a load of bull. I can certainly understand after reading this book why the church thinks this book was a hatchet job on the religion. All that said, the LDS church is some scary shit. Certainly Krakauer doesn't mean to say that all Mormons are dangerous, pedophiles, rapists and killers -- just the fundamentalist ones (<---B>and history proves this point</---B>). When he asks one of the main subjects of the book, a man who is serving a life sentence for the brutal slayings of a woman and her 18-month old child, about comparisons to other fundamentalist groups and Osama bin Laden in particular -- the man claims the difference is that he is right. How's that for arrogance? Again,<---M> I think all religions are crap</---M>, but Mormonism was basically a nutty story pulled out of Joseph Smith's ass less than 200 year's ago. Krakauer does a great job of weaving the story of the beginnings of the LDS church with modern day stories of fundamentalism. It's easy to see why there are fundamentalist LDS sects today when you follow the history of the religion. I think what makes it so scary for me is the devotion to Smith and his ridiculous story told in the Book of Mormon that flies in the face of fact and common sense. Though the Mormon story is not much stranger than other major religious stories, it certainly is a stretch even by the standards of faith. But the book is not really about the mainstream LDS church and I certainly don't mean to ridicule these people (at least not any more than other religious people who deny history and scientific fact) -- the book really shows us about what happens when people follow a religion to its \"logical\" conculsion in an extreme sense. The fundamentalists differ from the mainstream in that they are so devout they take every word as truth and that means damn everyone else in the world -- literally. What makes the LDS fundamentalists so interesting to me is their devotion to one particular tenent of the religion -- plural marriage. The fundamentalists are so caught up in their \"right\" to have multiple wives that they are willing to die and kill for it. I personally think if you want more than one wife and you can get several women to agree -- good for you. Enjoy. Have a freakin orgy if you want. And that would be fine if not for one thing -- the men in this community do this by force and do it with underage women and in some cases their own daughters. That's criminal. Living so close to Colorado City means I get plenty of news about what's going on up there, and lately we've read a lot about Warren Jeffs who in my mind is a dangerous criminal. But at least now I have some context for why he and the other fundamentalists are how they are. Frankly, I think it's less about religion than it is about power and greed. Anyway, what an amazing book. Especially given the fact that some experts think the LDS religion will reach upwards of 300 million members by the end of this century and after almost 200 years of fighting the American government they are potentially one election away from assuming the ultimate power of having the U.S. presidency. Don't think Mitt Romney will let his religion influence his decision-making? Just see George W. Bush for precedent. Not much difference in my mind between LDS fundamentalism and Christian fundamentalism. Not to say Mitt is a fundamentalist -- but what do we really know about his devotion to Joseph Smith's crazy story of the coming of the end of times? ...more I read this book for the book club at my local library. Afterwards, I felt indignant, confused, intrigued, and disgusted about all forms of faith. So, I sincerely hoped that a Saint or two would show up at the book club meeting, to nullify my extremely negative view of the church. Alas, no LDS believers showed, so I am left to my own conclusions about the book and faith in general. Here are some of my conclusions and questions after reading this sprawling, fascinating account of the history of p I read this book for the book club at my local library. Afterwards, I felt indignant, confused, intrigued, and disgusted about all forms of faith. So, I sincerely hoped that a Saint or two would show up at the book club meeting, to nullify my extremely negative view of the church. Alas, no LDS believers showed, so I am left to my own conclusions about the book and faith in general. Here are some of my conclusions and questions after reading this sprawling, fascinating account of the history of polygamy and violence within the Church of Later Day Saints: There is a certain appeal to having no choices. Sometimes religion is comforting because obedience to a provided list of rules removes personal responsibility. Strict adherence to a religion removes personal doubt. When you believe so fully in a church, you are no longer forced to question your own actions-- after all, if you carefully follow the directions of your spiritual leaders, you will gain your own paradise, regardless of what your personal conscious says about right or wrong. This leads me into my next point. I will never be a Mormon, for many reasons. First, in the Mormon faith, if you realize the highest echelon of Mormonism, you will get your own planet to run after you die. If you're a man, that is. If you're a woman, you can join your man on his planet... if he invites you. No, no, no. Please. I deserve my own planet. Wives and children are property, at least in the fundamentalists sects of Mormonism. I am a person, an event, not chattel. Second, remind me to never join a religion that condones killing. (See \"blood atonement,\" as typified in the Mountain Meadows Massacre.) Third, I don't want to be a believer in a faith that tells me I have to earn love-- least of all, God's. We are all holy, I think. We all have goodness and grace within us, no matter how many veils of earthly existence have descended. Finally, I will never follow a religion that doesn't encourage me to question everything. Information and education are my life-blood. I must be able to use my brain to get closer to God. Otherwise, why the heck would s/he give it to me? So, now that we have the comments specific to the Mormon faith out of the way, let's move on to the questions about faith in general. I heartily recommend this book to anyone who is going through a personal crisis. It will boil your blood and make you think. (What more could you want?) Here are my questions: 1) Why does listening to the divine in each of us produce such different results? It can lead to peace and pacifism, or killing. Who is speaking? God, or ego? 2) Is all fundementalism mired in violence, or do certain faiths promote it? 3) Does God always speak in King James' English? (It seems so, according to the Book of Mormon.) 4) Would all religions seem this crazy if we were only 200 years out, and had intimate, dirty details of each guru's life? 5) Is there anything inherently wrong with polygamy? Do we have a gene for monogomy? (I don't care, as long as no one gets hurt. And marrying 13 year olds, sometimes when they're your own daughter, is inherently hurtful.) 6) Is faith the opposite of reason? Is education the cure for religion? 7)Is religion a distraction from the humdrum of our everyday lives? (Opposite of Buddhism.) Ok, y'all, sorry about the long review. But seriously, read the book. It's excellently chilling, and will keep you up late at night writing your comments furiously on post-it notes. At least, that's what it did to me. ...more 4.0 to 4.5 stars. For non-fiction, this book had me absolutely riveted from the very beginning. This true crime narative has three main themes, all of which I think Krakauer accomplishes extremely well. First, this is a true crime story of the brutal double murder of Brenda Lafferty and her 15 month old baby girl at the hands Ron and Dan Lafferty (the older brothers of Brenda\u2019s husband). Second, is a survey of the origin and early history of Mormonism and the basic doctrines of the Mormon faith 4.0 to 4.5 stars. For non-fiction, this book had me absolutely riveted from the very beginning. This true crime narative has three main themes, all of which I think Krakauer accomplishes extremely well. First, this is a true crime story of the brutal double murder of Brenda Lafferty and her 15 month old baby girl at the hands Ron and Dan Lafferty (the older brothers of Brenda\u2019s husband). Second, is a survey of the origin and early history of Mormonism and the basic doctrines of the Mormon faith. Third, the book details the deep divide and animosity between the Mormon church and the various fundamentalist Mormon sects, including the one to which the murderers belonged. These three story-lines are not broken down into sections but are interwoven throughout the book. However, for simplicity I will address each separately. THE MURDERS On July 24, 1984, Brenda and Eric Lafferty, wife and daughter of Allen Lafferty, were brutally murdered by Allen\u2019s older brothers Ronald and Dan Lafferty. The book begins with an account of the murders and several of the newspaper articles that covered it and then layers in the story of Ron and Dan and the events leading up to the killing throughout the rest of the book. One quote from the book that still haunts me occurs in the first few pages when Dan describes the murder of his 15 months old niece: He [describes] how he found his fifteen-month-old niece, Erica, standing in her crib, smiling up at him. \u2018I spoke to her for a minute,\u2019 Lafferty recalls. \u2018I told her, I\u2019m not sure what this is all about, but apparently it\u2019s God\u2019s will that you leave this world; perhaps we can talk about it later.\u2019 And then he ended her life with a ten-inch boning knife. For me, as a father of two little girls, this is one of the most disturbing passages I have ever read. THE HISTORY OF MORMONISM The second component of the book is a fairly detailed overview of the founding and early history of the Mormon church. I am not joking when I say that before I began reading this book, almost everything I knew about the Mormon faith came from watching South Park. I thought the early history of the church was fascinating, especially the descriptions of the tension and actual armed conflicts between LDS supporters and (1) Missouri residents and militia in 1838 (aka the Missouri Mormon War), (2) the Illinois Militia in 1844 (aka Illinois Mormon War) and (3) the U.S. Government in 1857-58 (aka the Utah War). For those not familiar with these conflicts or this period of American History, I think you will find it very interesting. FUNDAMENTALIST MORMONISM The most compelling aspect of the book for me was the description of various fundamentalist Mormon sects, including their basic beliefs and the amount of influence and control they maintain over their followers. Krakauer goes on to describe the deep animosity that the fundamentalists have for the mainstream Mormon church (and vice versa). While there are many points of contention between the two, the major theological difference is over polygamy which the fundamentalists believe is a sacred duty required by God. He states in the Prologue of the book: Mormon authorities treat the fundamentalists as they would a crazy uncle - they try to keep the \"polygs\" hidden in the attic, safely out of sight, but the fundamentalists always seem to be sneaking out in public at inopportune moment to create unsavory scenes, embarrassing the entire LDS clan. Krakauer also describes how the fundamentalist Mormons view the U.S. Government as Satan and believe that stealing from the government (either in the form of educational grants for cities which they control or in the form of welfare for their numerous wives and children) is their sacred duty. He says, \u201cFundamentalists call defrauding the government \u2018bleeding the beast\u2019 and regard it as a virtuous act.\u201d For example, the largest fundamentalist sect is the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, also known as the United Effort Plan (UEP). At the time the book was written, the UEP was run by Rulon T. Jeffs (aka Uncle Rulon) out of the town of Colorado City, AZ on the border between Arizona and Utah. Colorado City has a population of about 5000 all of which belong to the UEP and the town gets between $4Millon and $6Million a year in public education funding and other grants. The power base of the town stems from Uncle Rulon who had approximately 75 wives (many as young as 13-14) and over 65 children. BTW, no member of the town is able to watch TV, read a newspaper or have any interaction with the outside world. FINAL THOUGHTS I thought this was a compelling read. Krakauer does a great job of layering in a ton of interesting background while keeping the narrative of the events leading up the brutal murders moving forward. I was impressed with how well Krakauer avoided letting the narrative get bogged down although that could just be my fascination with the subject matter. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!. ...more This is a hard book for me to review given that I have quite a few Mormon friends and that although my own philosophy leans more towards existentialism than anything else, I feel its differents strokes for different folks, who am I to criticise and all the other cliches to do with tolerance. Hard because this is my review, my feelings and yet I do not seek to be offensive, and don't want to be taken that way. Hard because I am led inescapably by this book to view Mormonism as a cult that has cha This is a hard book for me to review given that I have quite a few Mormon friends and that although my own philosophy leans more towards existentialism than anything else, I feel its differents strokes for different folks, who am I to criticise and all the other cliches to do with tolerance. Hard because this is my review, my feelings and yet I do not seek to be offensive, and don't want to be taken that way. Hard because I am led inescapably by this book to view Mormonism as a cult that has changed and adapted as was expedient given the various political currents ebbing and waning and because that is the only way I can review it. I've seen, here in the West Indies, how a cult can gain both the practice and the legitimacy of an established religion within a few generations. So long as the government is willing to either recognise it and allow it tax-exempt status and all the other perquisites that go with establishment or it becomes an issue of political-correctness that people and the media must appear to pay the cult the lip-service of respect whether or not it deserves it. I'm talking about Rastafarianism of course. And I've read it here in this book as a cult developed into what would become the FLDS (still a cult) and the mainstream Mormons. In the first generation, the founder either seeks influence and power as with Mormonism, or is deified, Haile Selassie in Rastafarianism. In the second generation the founding truths and myths and the legends surrounding the founders or the deified one have coalesced into a body of oral and written literature that will form the holy books. This will become the work of sacred reference that will be consulted when laws are changed or introduced and which will be used when moral laws are decided. (As an aside in all cults and religions it seems to be that men will use the holy books to justify their treatment of women). There are no established religions, only cults, that have grown up around women, founded by women and codified by women. The development and administration of religion is a man's game). In the third generation, the grandchildren are in the same situation as the children of people belonging to religions thousands of years old - they do not remember a time, nor do their parents when they and their families were not believers and their is a history and established pattern of worship and traditions to draw upon. When the religion is still a cult, the goverment and courts will not allow the teachings of that cult to be a defence for crimes committed - there is a much of this, including a truly unholy massacre in this book. But once the cult has the weight of an established religion, then the religion becomes a legitimate defence to crime, the crime has been committed Under the Banner of Heaven. As with all Karakauer books, its very well-written in quite a journalistic style and is well worth a read even if you totally disagree with my interpretation of it. read originally Dec 1, 2008 ...more You know, I probably shouldn't have read this directly after finishing In Cold Blood . I'm not saying the combination brought out the homicidal psychotic in me, but I did have to pay for stabbing the hell out of a turkey in the Albertson's meat section the other day. Is there a stranger sect out there than the Mormons? I mean, golden plates ... lost tribes ... Nephites battling Lamanites ... Orrin Hatch.... Well, yes, I guess one look at Tom Cruise jumping up and down on Oprah's couch suggests th You know, I probably shouldn't have read this directly after finishing In Cold Blood . I'm not saying the combination brought out the homicidal psychotic in me, but I did have to pay for stabbing the hell out of a turkey in the Albertson's meat section the other day. Is there a stranger sect out there than the Mormons? I mean, golden plates ... lost tribes ... Nephites battling Lamanites ... Orrin Hatch.... Well, yes, I guess one look at Tom Cruise jumping up and down on Oprah's couch suggests that Scientology has a lot to answer for, as well. For that matter, I've never understood how a burning bush speaks to someone. Why a burning bush ? Why not, say, a burning acacia tree? But if mainstream Mormonism is a little on the far-out side, then fundamentalist Mormonism--sort of like regular Mormonism with more fanaticism, more racism, more welfare cheating, more taking of wives, and more child rape--is like the spastic uncle that mainstream Mormonism keeps in the wine cellar. \"Thumping? What thumping? I didn't hear anything. Did you hear anything, honey? I didn't hear anything.\" Krakauer does a fine job of interweaving Mormon history, profiles of fundamentalist breakaway Mormon sects, and the hideous, gruesome story of the two God-soaked fundamentalist brothers who slashed the throats of a young woman and her infant daughter. He attempts to be as fair-minded as possible about all these subjects while never neglecting to call a spade a spade. Personally, I would have used the word \"nutjob\" and \"charlatan\" a lot more often, and not just in connection with the fundamentalists, but Krakauer makes a point of not passing judgment on the validity of firmly held religious beliefs. I guess a book called Is the Entire State of Utah Out of Its Mind? wouldn't sell. In sum, though, Under the Banner of Heaven is as gripping and hard to put down as Krakauer's other fine books, and offers a valuable insight into a strange, deeply American phenomenon. Recommended. One small but not unimportant note: Krakauer includes a final \"Author's Remarks\" section at the end of the book. These remarks chiefly concern Krakauer's own attitudes toward religion and Mormonism, as well as his intent in writing the book. It's unfortunate that he added this postscript, not because it's unwarranted but because a) it's largely superfluous, and b) it rather ruins the picture-perfect way the rest of the book ends. Jon, you had it in the bag, man; all you had to do was dribble out the clock. Everything in that postscript should be said in interviews. ...more This book makes a lot of big promises, but it suffers from several serious flaws: 1. Lack of focus. 2. Too long. 3. Preposterous claim. 4. Boring This is a true crime novel--maybe--set against the history of the Mormon Church--but not really--trying to tie in a couple of murders committed by a couple of sickos--all too common--into an historical and political climate of post-terrorist, millennial religious revival--unsuccessfully. For true crime, it's shockingly dull, and the crime is committed by the This book makes a lot of big promises, but it suffers from several serious flaws: 1. Lack of focus. 2. Too long. 3. Preposterous claim. 4. Boring This is a true crime novel--maybe--set against the history of the Mormon Church--but not really--trying to tie in a couple of murders committed by a couple of sickos--all too common--into an historical and political climate of post-terrorist, millennial religious revival--unsuccessfully. For true crime, it's shockingly dull, and the crime is committed by the middle of the book, but you already know it's going to happen because it's committed in the prologue, too. The characters aren't interesting, their motivations are the ordinary motivations of religious sickos, and the detail is presented tediously. The Mormon Church is presented as entirely to blame for the murderers' thoughts and the victims, and for Elizabeth Smart's abduction and captivity. It's crammed full of historical detail that might be interesting but it's presented in such a snide, disrespectful tone that it's just a rip on the Church. At one point the author grudgingly admits that Mormonism is no stranger or objectively odd than any other religion (once you get right down to it) but he nonetheless mocks it and its adherents. He continually harps on its sexism, as if every other religion in the Western World were a paragon of equality and political fairness. Odder still is the fact that his murderers and enablers aren't even Mormon. They invented a religion based on Mormonism, but it's taken to such an extreme that the Mormon Church has disassociated itself with them and is cited frequently by the author as denying that what these guys practice is the same religion. I made it to page 175 where the murders happened, and then the book jumped to another overly detailed of the history of Joseph Smith and friends and I was only halfway through the book. I guess the rest of it is how the Mormons got to Utah and the court case, but considering everyone knew who committed the murder--they'd told maybe ten people they were going to do it and they confessed immediately and you knew this already from the book--there was no suspense about that. The psychological profile of a religious killer is known already. I can't imagine what you would need to keep writing about. There are also too many footnotes, on diverse and vaguely interesting tidbits, some of them half a page long. It adds to the lack of focus. It's just a scrambled book about a tragedy. Everything seems to be coming up polygamy of late, down to the HBO series, Big Love . So perhaps this was shocking and provocative and informative a few years ago, but the fundamentalist polygamist sects are very much in the public consciousness now and this book doesn't give any new information. What I found most interesting were the similarities to some of the characters in that television show to some of the fundamentalist profiles in the book. None of them were similar to the point of being \"inspired by,\" I don't think, but things like the Romanian immigrant becoming a plural wife reminded me of Ana, and the daughters of prophets all over the place reminded me of Nikki, and the Mormon wives of Mormon men who adopt polygamy reminded me of Barb. Of course, this is in circumstance only. Bill Paxton's family makes me wish I had a sister wife sometimes. I'd certainly get a lot more done. ...more Hmmm...where do I start? First of all, I didn't finish reading this book. It was intriguing in the beginning to learn about the Fundamentalist Mormons and the interestingly odd things they believe and practice. It was also interesting to contemplate the power of faith. Faith in something or someone, regardless of what or whom they are, can make people do unbelievable things. This is true. I can see how Krakauer would have been frustrated when access to historical documents and interviews with pro Hmmm...where do I start? First of all, I didn't finish reading this book. It was intriguing in the beginning to learn about the Fundamentalist Mormons and the interestingly odd things they believe and practice. It was also interesting to contemplate the power of faith. Faith in something or someone, regardless of what or whom they are, can make people do unbelievable things. This is true. I can see how Krakauer would have been frustrated when access to historical documents and interviews with prominent LDS leaders weren't granted to him. In order to tell all sides of a story, you must be able to research all sides. I think in the past 5-10 years, the LDS church has been more forthcoming and open with their history and archives, thanks largely to the prophet Gordon B. Hinckley. So perhaps if Krakauer were to have written this book now, he would not encounter these same road blocks. Some people may feel that if some aspects of the churches history were to be exposed to the general membership of the church, it would cause members to lose faith. This may be true of some. But I believe that those who truly have a testimony of the restoration of the gospel, the prophet Joseph Smith, and especially of the Lord Jesus Christ; these people would not sway from their beliefs. Being a devout member of the LDS (Mormon) faith, I was a bit disturbed to see how the defining line between the FLDS and LDS churches was often blurred and crossed. These religions are completely separate in all but their initial history. Polygamy is not currently being practiced by any member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that is in good standing. If a member were practicing polygamy, they would be excommunicated. That said, I also did not appreciate the tone with which Krakauer referred to Joseph Smith. I have great respect and admiration for this leader of my church. He was a good man who did the things that God and Jesus Christ asked him to do. I'm sure it wasn't always easy, but he did it anyway. There are things in the history of the Mormon church that have and still occasionally do disturb me. For instance: polygamy, the priesthood being withheld from black men, the Mountain Meadows massacre, etc. But I also know that I do not understand everything and will be able to gain a complete understanding when I leave this earth. Most of all, I know that I have a testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I know that Jesus Christ did restore His church here upon the earth through Joseph Smith. I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. I also know that if I have Faith, that intense faith that is required for people to do extraordinary and even seemingly ordinary things, I will one day stand before my Lord Jesus Christ, sure in the knowledge of my place as a daughter of God. ...more I really enjoyed Into Thin Air, but now I wonder if it is poorly done as this book was. As a Mormon I was amazed at Krakauer's complete naivete that he's trying to pass off as expertise and a well-researched book. I'd be scared of Mormonism too if I read this and didn't know better. The logic leaps he makes are simply massive. For a story about the Lafferty's, this is a nicely told yarn. For understanding its extrapolation into a story about Mormonism it is foolishness at its finest. My father's family is obsessed with Mormons, I think it's fair to say. Well..not Mormons. Most of the Mormons I've known have been perfectly regular people. If you're Mormon, please forgive me if that sounds callous. We are, however, obsessed with Mormonism, and have been since my aunt and uncle took a trip to Salt Lake City many years ago and came back with something we call \"The Mormon Movie\". \"The Mormon Movie\" is like the axis point of a fascination that's gone on for years and is easy to exp My father's family is obsessed with Mormons, I think it's fair to say. Well..not Mormons. Most of the Mormons I've known have been perfectly regular people. If you're Mormon, please forgive me if that sounds callous. We are, however, obsessed with Mormonism, and have been since my aunt and uncle took a trip to Salt Lake City many years ago and came back with something we call \"The Mormon Movie\". \"The Mormon Movie\" is like the axis point of a fascination that's gone on for years and is easy to explain: we're Lutherans. As Lutheran, in fact, as they come. My grandfather co-founded the church my parents grew up in, and my dad and uncle were both pastors as younger men. My mom's family went to that Lutheran church, too, her mother was the choir director. The story goes on. So for us, the stories of rites and rituals, of Jesus visiting the Americas, of holy underwear, of plural marriage, almost seemed too fantastical to be true. Despite the inaccuracies of some of our perceptions of the LDS, this curiousity definitely added to my interest and enjoyment of this book, which is not so much a criticism of the Mormon Church as a look into how its history led to some very gruesome murders. LDS, of course, was not too thrilled with it, but I thought the book does a pretty evenhanded job of presenting facts more than opinions. I read it for my father's book club, and we had a debate about how fair he was being. But we also argued about how valuable participation in a religious institution is in the first place, or how corrupting it can be (I should add that the murderers in this book were part of a few different sects of Mormonism that were NOT part of the LDS). At any rate, it made us think and debate a lot, and it made us angry. That alone, I think, is a good reason to pick this one up. ...more This book is fantastic. Krakauer looks at the history of violence in the Mormon religion (both against them and perpetrated by them) and how this violence, romanticized by modern fundamentalist Mormon polygamists, led two men to kill their sister-in-law and her baby because they said God told them to. These men felt, and continued to feel, no remorse because of their doctrine that \"killing for the Lord\" is entirely acceptable if it is necessary to do God's will. Krakauer's greater point is to loo This book is fantastic. Krakauer looks at the history of violence in the Mormon religion (both against them and perpetrated by them) and how this violence, romanticized by modern fundamentalist Mormon polygamists, led two men to kill their sister-in-law and her baby because they said God told them to. These men felt, and continued to feel, no remorse because of their doctrine that \"killing for the Lord\" is entirely acceptable if it is necessary to do God's will. Krakauer's greater point is to look at American religions and fundamentalist religions and how the leadership of fundamentalist religions that emphasize direct revelations from God is unstable, because followers inevitably believe they are receiving revelations and need to overthrow the current leadership. As a result, these religions tend to split into sub-groups quite regularly. Using this lens he looks at how fundamentalist Mormon groups emerged once the mainstream Mormon church abandoned polygamy and how the polygamist movement has split into different groups over time. Krakauer does not attack religion or the Mormons per se. He provides a balanced look at the history of Mormons, emphasizing violence and prejudice against them as much as violence done by them to others. However, he insists on a historically accurate account based on the best evidence available (legal documents, etc.), rather than accepting the LDS church's official version of events. He also discusses how mainstream culture defines certain groups as \"delusional\" while allowing other groups to hold equally non-rational ideas without judgment. The trial of the Laffertys provides an excellent case to show how the mental health profession defines \"crazy\" and \"delusional\" in a way that could technically be used to diagnose all religious people as crazy; but of course, we define only some groups as crazy for their religious beliefs. Not surprisingly, because Krakauer does not portray Joseph Smith and Brigham Young as angelic saints who never did anything wrong in their entire lives, the LDS leadership attacked the book, instructing members to avoid it. At the end of the book Krakauer includes a long essay written by Elder Turley, a member of the top leadership, criticizing his essay and then responds to it point-by-point. I absolutely loved the book and could barely put it down. ...more This book is great for it's depiction and unbiased view of Mormonism. I don't know if I can write an unbiased review of Under the Banner of Heaven . I'll say this: Krakauer's well-researched, exceedingly well-written 2003 book, which is 1/3rd a true crime examination of the brutal 1984 murders of Brenda Lafferty and her young daughter Erika by two Fundamentalist (i.e. polygamous) Mormons Dan and Ron Lafferty (her brothers-in-law) and 2/3rds an exhaustive examination of the Mormon religion (particularly its violent foment), is a fascinating read. What I have some tr I don't know if I can write an unbiased review of Under the Banner of Heaven . I'll say this: Krakauer's well-researched, exceedingly well-written 2003 book, which is 1/3rd a true crime examination of the brutal 1984 murders of Brenda Lafferty and her young daughter Erika by two Fundamentalist (i.e. polygamous) Mormons Dan and Ron Lafferty (her brothers-in-law) and 2/3rds an exhaustive examination of the Mormon religion (particularly its violent foment), is a fascinating read. What I have some trouble with is: I can't get over the idea that Krakauer had a gigantic axe to grind with religion/faith in general, and Mormonism in particular. He's such a talented writer that you don't (or at least I didn't, anyway) realize the spin he's thrown on his account until you've been convinced that all religions are ridiculous, and none more so than the hucksterism opportunely ideated by the likes of Messrs. Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, John Taylor, et al. While I agree with much Krakauer had to say, his message in hindsight feels almost like reverse-proselytizing, which is almost as discomfiting as entertaining the efforts of those men in white shirts, clip-on ties, and black pants trying to meet their two-conversions-per-annum quota here in the middle of the (Baptist) Bible Belt. Still, Krakauer's points are persuasive enough to give anyone pause about the Fundamentalist Mormon faith (if not its still-strong ties to mainstream Mormonism), which is why I give a book four stars that made me so uncomfortable while reading it. ...more Gosh, I still feel a bit stunned. This book gives you a lot to think about, and it does it with a thwack. Basically this is story of the Lafferty brothers, born into a deeply fundamentalist Mormon family with a sometimes brutal but sometimes loving father, whom they adored. As they grew older they really went off the rails, and they did so by becoming even more fundamentalist than their father, immersing themselves in old Mormon writings, and living their lives by these tenets, in a way that was Gosh, I still feel a bit stunned. This book gives you a lot to think about, and it does it with a thwack. Basically this is story of the Lafferty brothers, born into a deeply fundamentalist Mormon family with a sometimes brutal but sometimes loving father, whom they adored. As they grew older they really went off the rails, and they did so by becoming even more fundamentalist than their father, immersing themselves in old Mormon writings, and living their lives by these tenets, in a way that was both obsessional and extremely eccentric. Finally, one of them committed two murders, believing this to be God\u2019s will\u2026.. a direct revelation in response to the prayers of his oldest brother. I see it in terms of a follie en famille http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Folie_%C... At their trial they had several psychiatrists and psychologists on either side of the court room, some arguing for the defence of psychiatric illness, others arguing that they were in fact sane, and it was the writings and beliefs of the Mormon Church that had led them to this impasse. The author steps back in his assessment of the situation, and readers are left to make up their own minds. Points raised include : (view spoiler) [ *The regular Mormon Church and its history. *The Fundamentalist Mormon Church (which is quite different to the standard church in several ways). *Mormon missionaries: There are currently more than 60,000 missionaries around the world. Their average conversion rate is 2 \u2013 3 people per year. *The spectacular rise of Mormonism: It\u2019s the fastest-growing church in the Western Hemisphere. At the last count there were eleven million Saints the world over. *The nature of religion: \u201dReligious faith is an answer to the problem of life\u2026 The majority of mankind want or need some all-embracing belief system which purports to provide an answer to life\u2019s mysteries, and are not necessarily dismayed by the discovery that their belief system, which they proclaim as \u201cthe truth\u201d, is incompatible with the beliefs of other people. One man\u2019s faith is another man\u2019s delusion\u2026. Whether a belief is considered to be a delusion or not depends partly upon the intensity with which it is defended, and partly upon the number of people subscribing to it.\u201d Anthony Storr, Feet of Clay (Quoted in the book). *The difference between fanaticism and mental illness. *The effects of socialization, and the cultures we are born into. *The power of charismatic gurus and leaders: Josepth Smith, the founder of the Mormons, was obviously a real hot wire. The author rests a lot of the success of Mormonism purely on the power of his charisma. *The role of outside hostility in shaping communities: There has often been huge animosity (& fighting) between Mormon communities and the people around them, and this seems, if anything, to have cemented their loyalties to the church and one another. * The power of the right message at the right time: Before Joseph Smith there was Calvinism \u2013 a harsh religion. Then came Joseph Smith, with the concept of a loving God. It was much more attractive to people, and people converted to Mormonism with enthusiasm. * The origins and culture of polygamy in America: Joseph Smith was obviously a philanderer of the first order, but his religious beliefs meant he had to make these relationships right in the eyes of God, so he married all the women he fell in lust with. As polygamy was banned in American law, I think these \u2018marriages\u2019 were probably not legal under American law. Polygamists were not lax in their relationships \u2013 they had very strict rules about how they conducted them. There were all sorts of rules. A lot of their relationships seem incestuous, or otherwise questionable. One woman spoke of being married to her uncle, and often these \u2018marriages\u2019 were to young girls. Joseph\u2019s youngest wife was fourteen. He married her when he was thirty-eight. In 1890 President Wilford Woodruff announced that he had received a revelation that polygamy had to be relinquished. This became known as the Woodruff Manifesto. At first this just drove it underground, but by 1920, most Saints and their leaders had turned against it. Nowadays it is only found in some of the fundamentalist Mormon sects. *Racism in the Mormon Church: For a long time African-Americans were not allowed to be ordained into the church, then, in 1978, President Spencer W Kimball had a revelation in which the Lord commanded that the Latter day Saint priesthood be open to males of all races. This initiated a slow shift in attitudes. *Fundamentalism and right wing politics: Unsurprisingly, the two go together, (hide spoiler) ] It was fascinating to read about the story of the origins of the Mormon Church, and the way that it has changed direction on several occasions via \u2018revelations\u2019 to the leaders of the church. I was also astonished to learn more about polygamy in the history of the church. It was not what I expected, and sounded extremely suspect to me in all respects. Most of all I was left with a strong distaste for fundamentalism in all its manifestations. I disliked it before. I dislike it even more now. Also the extraordinary story of Mormon beginnings \u2013 which are part of our recent history (it only came into being 183 years ago) - cannot help but light up the degree to which older religions have similarly extraordinary stories. The difference is the latter are part of our culture, and to a great extent part of our psyche. A very interesting book indeed. ------------------------------------------------------- An excellent 2 part programme on Mormons (kindly recommended by Catherine). Available until 2016. http://video.pbs.org/video/1460817958/ http://video.pbs.org/video/1460862784/ ...more Good grief. At the time of this posting there are almost 70,000 ratings and baskets of reviews. So why another one? Good question. Predictably, if you are a Mormon you won\u2019t like this book, although it does seem to be well-researched and relatively even-handed. What appears to us skeptics as just silly nonsense is, for some people, inspired holy writ. Go figure. The Mormons themselves can't figure out what's revelation or not and who is or is not a prophet as Joseph Smith discovered to his dismay Good grief. At the time of this posting there are almost 70,000 ratings and baskets of reviews. So why another one? Good question. Predictably, if you are a Mormon you won\u2019t like this book, although it does seem to be well-researched and relatively even-handed. What appears to us skeptics as just silly nonsense is, for some people, inspired holy writ. Go figure. The Mormons themselves can't figure out what's revelation or not and who is or is not a prophet as Joseph Smith discovered to his dismay. His original revelation suggested that any Mormon could receive a revelation but quickly got another message from God that revelations would only go through Joseph Smith or his appointee. Very convenient way of maintaining control. God said so, so do it. What a great line. It's interesting, but reading about some of the misdeeds of the early Mormon settlers and comments about this book on other sites, I was reminded of similar remarks made on Civil War book reviews by adherents of the \"Lost Cause\" myth. The same kind of myopic view . I had no idea that those \"other\" Mormons, the FLDS, the polygamists, thrive(d) in assorted little places like Colorado City/Hildale, AZ/Utah twin cities that straddle the border. ** The whole town is controlled despotically by the local leader/prophet (it sure is tempting to declare myself a prophet and start pronouncing, what a kick.) The police, the school board, the mayor, everyone in authority is FLDS. The United Effort Plan owns almost all the town property. Many men there have many wives and it has become (or should anyway,) a scandal in the way they manipulate the system. Since the wives are legally single mothers and are unemployed they draw millions in benefits which becomes a major source of income for the hubby in charge. Ironically, if the marriages were declared legal, they would lose millions. The FLDS folks are positive they represent the true adherence to the \"principle\", celestial marriage without which one cannot go to heaven; the mainstream is equally positive their prophet got a message from God indicating that being admitted tot he union was more important than celestial marriage. So, there you are. I say put it to trial by ordeal. Dump both prophets in a vat of boiling oil. Of course, in the end, it's all about money and power. The issue of what constitutes valid revelation from God (somebody explain to me why God finds it necessary to speak in 15th century English.) Since all male Mormons become priests (blacks excepted until God changed his mind about their essential evilness in the early sixties) many of them feel God is speaking unto them. Most of us would consider them delusional and in the case of Dan and Ron Lafferty who insisted God had told them to strike down the infidels who happened to be their wives. Raised in an atmosphere of religious fanaticism and paranoia, not to mention hatred of the federal government (I\u2019ve never understood why federal and not state and township,) they saw themselves as the true righteous and holy. Ron\u2019s descent began when his wife refused to go along with his desire to take a polygamous wife. In 1984 he received a \u201cremoval revelation\u201d from God which he recorded on a yellow legal tablet. He and Dan then murdered Brenda and Erica. Last I checked, Ron was awaiting execution in Utah. He is now 61 and his brother is serving two life sentences. The Lafferty\u2019s had been fans of Robert Crossfield, otherwise known as Onias, who claimed to have received several revelations of God making hm the one and true prophet. They helped to distribute the Onias revelations, which, conveniently, also said the Lafferty\u2019s had been the chosen ones even before they were born. Krakauer interweaves the history of the Mormon church i n this bloodthirsty account of the Lafferty brothers. He finds the seeds of their crimes in the church. Tidbits: Brigham Young wanted the state to be called the Beehive state rather than Utah (after the Ute Indians) because of its emphasis on the collective doing what's best for the group rather than emphasizing the individual. Today, given the association of collective with communism, the beehive on the state flag is considered to represent \"industry.\" If you are interested in the whole revelation business, I recommend the LDS website\u2019s transcript of the revelation regarding blacks and the priesthood. It\u2019s available here: http://www.lds-mormon.com/legrand_ric... Hard to believe there are people who take this stuff seriously. For a recent example, I quote this from the June 3 Washington Post: \" The leaders have come under intense scrutiny. Barely 36 hours after the caustic New Year\u2019s Day vote, Boehner faced a coup attempt from a clutch of renegade conservatives. The cabal quickly fell apart when several Republicans, after a night of prayer, said God told them to spare the speaker\u2026.. Southerland woke up convinced that Boehner should be spared. Others, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said they, too, prayed before siding with Boehner.\u201c He\u2019s not a God of chaos, he\u2019s a God of order,\u201d Southerland said.\" Amazing that God might give a shit about the Speaker of the House. Oh, and by the way, I have just received a startling revelation. Everyone reading this must get together and purchase for me an around-the-world cruise on the QM2, a suite of course. Chop, chop, if you want to avoid everlasting damnation. Now explain to me how that might be different from a revelation to kill my wife or to add wives. Or start a new religion. ** http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hildale,... ...more This book was intense . I\u2019m a sucker for religious studies anyway, especially those different from my own, and this book has been on my radar for awhile now because Mormonism (in general) and fundamentalists (of all kinds) have always interested me, so when I found out this book was about Mormon fundamentalists, there was never any doubt that I\u2019d read it eventually. But what I was expecting from this book and what I got were two totally different beasts. My expectation was to walk away thinking, This book was intense . I\u2019m a sucker for religious studies anyway, especially those different from my own, and this book has been on my radar for awhile now because Mormonism (in general) and fundamentalists (of all kinds) have always interested me, so when I found out this book was about Mormon fundamentalists, there was never any doubt that I\u2019d read it eventually. But what I was expecting from this book and what I got were two totally different beasts. My expectation was to walk away thinking, \u201chm, yes, Mormon fundamentalists are interesting, hm.\u201d But instead, I feel like this book magically sprouted a pair of legs, donned a pair of wicked shitkickers and promptly nailed me in the gut. Thank you <---A>Jon Krakauer</---A>, your organizational management and storytelling abilities have just earned you another fan. In the prologue of the book, Krakauer makes some important statements about fundamentalists, hoping to impress upon his readers that the bizarre story he is about to share is not characteristic of the entire Mormon faith but that it goes to show that religious fundamentalism can be a very bad thing that can sprout from any religion or school of thought, and I appreciated that he stated that straight off the bat. For most Americans, the thought of polygamy is truly scandalous . We can laugh about Victorians who thought it was shameful for a woman to bare her ankle to a man and crack jokes about the hullabaloo that resulted from the Brady Bunch parents, Mike and Carol, being filmed lying in a bed together wearing pajamas and discussing the antics of their kids at the end of the day. But the thought of one man with more than one woman is outrageously wicked in the eyes of most. The same could likely be said of those who practice open relationships or engage in a swinger lifestyle or polyamorism. Our youth can usually get away with screwing around without too much concern but eventually, the social expectation is that each of us will eventually settle down with one partner at a time and quietly live out the rest of our lives. And then you have many Mormon fundamentalists who strongly believe that God wants them to have plural wives. For those of us who disagree with their claim to live this sort of lifestyle, Krakauer has showcased a number of deeply disturbing stories that confirm for the rest of us (Mormons and non-Mormons alike) why it is illegal and why that should not change. The main story surrounds the ritualistic murder of Brenda and Erica Lafferty, a young Mormon wife and her 15-month-old daughter. Krakauer highlights some details of the murder early-on, but it isn\u2019t until the middle section of the book that the full retelling of the murder takes place. So those hoping for a gutsy true crime story may find themselves disappointed and there was a reason this book is shelved in the \u201creligion\u201d section of the bookstore. Krakauer also highlights a number of other infamous polygamous families, towns and talks about the ramifications of sects closing out the influence of the outside world. He also talks about taxes and welfare and what this means for polygamists and Mormon fundamentalists. Most importantly, he talks about historical events that occurred centuries ago as well as more modern events that have happened in the decades that preceded the crime that may have established a basis for why the Lafferty brothers killed their sister-in-law and baby niece. In the authors remarks at the end of the book, Krakauer admits that when he struck out to write this book, his intent had been to write about the syncretism between the roots of Mormonism and the current practices and beliefs of the Latter Day Saints. But then the book morphed itself into a study of acts of violence at the hands of religious fundamentalists. If he ever writes the book he intended to write, I\u2019d love to read it. And in the meantime, will gladly read some of the other things he\u2019s written because even though I\u2019m not a huge fan of the nonfiction, Krakauer has had some major success in reminding me that truth is stranger than fiction. ...more Somehow, in Krakauer's and every other story of Christian fundamentalism and extremism that is exposed, those involved justification for doing evil and ignoring good is all founded on extreme and polarizing doctrines. Polygamy. Holy Wars. Visions. Revelation. Line of succession. All legitimate things to think and worry about, but they seem to completely ignore the important things that Christ taught while on earth. Say...something like....blessed are the peacemakers. And loving our neighbors. An Somehow, in Krakauer's and every other story of Christian fundamentalism and extremism that is exposed, those involved justification for doing evil and ignoring good is all founded on extreme and polarizing doctrines. Polygamy. Holy Wars. Visions. Revelation. Line of succession. All legitimate things to think and worry about, but they seem to completely ignore the important things that Christ taught while on earth. Say...something like....blessed are the peacemakers. And loving our neighbors. And repentance, hope, forgiveness, charity and love. I think until we master these, the mysteries and promise of further knowledge is a long ways away. Kraukauer argues that religion, particularly the history of the LDS religion is prone to produce extremists who do more harm than good. Much like that of Islamic fundamentalists, the religion's history is one of violence and secrecy. I can't say he is entirely wrong. I do think there is a propensity for believers to fall into extreme behavior. However, while Krakauer believes it has something to do with the doctrine or leaders, I believe it is entirely due to opposition. Good things - the best things - are perverted the most. Religion, a means to learn about and worship God. And yet, so much evil, so much harm throughout history to His children has been brought about by its name. I don't believe any evil has been done by those truly devoted to God. I really don't. It has all been done by those influenced, knowingly or not, by the great deceiver, Satan. I think those who don't believe, like Krakauer himself, find it awfully easy to find fault with faith, with religion, because they focus and magnify the imperfections of man. He translates it into an imperfect or non-existent God, which is easy for him to do. He has the proof. Look! This man murdered his sister-in-law! That is no God I believe in. Well, Jon, neither do I. In fact, every single one of his sources was a dissenter or apostate...as if they had the inside track to truth. Shading, innuendo, rumors and hearsay are all given as proof and fact of corruption and deception. While I'm not naive enough to think that the LDS church has no black eyes in its history, I can't admire a critic who presents only one side of a story. Krakauer commits a real blunder by limiting the story of faith to people who claim none or have an extremely warped sense of it. And he certainly didn't provide justice to my cousin's story. Brenda Lafferty's story was a story about the LDS faith. Of goodness. Of kindness and strength in helping her neighbor. Of a willingness to stand up to evil and unholiness. Brenda Lafferty's story is the real story of a believer. ...more UNDER THE BANNER OF HEAVEN: A STORY OF VIOLENT FAITH BY JON KRAKAUER: I finished Under the Banner of Heaven two days ago now, and I haven't written the review yet, waiting to see if anything would change in my mind about Mormons, and so far nothing has. I still think it's a horribly misogynistic religion that goes even further than all other religions I know to take away all responsibility, independent thought, and individualism, and literally sacrifice oneself to god and whoever is your preside UNDER THE BANNER OF HEAVEN: A STORY OF VIOLENT FAITH BY JON KRAKAUER: I finished Under the Banner of Heaven two days ago now, and I haven't written the review yet, waiting to see if anything would change in my mind about Mormons, and so far nothing has. I still think it's a horribly misogynistic religion that goes even further than all other religions I know to take away all responsibility, independent thought, and individualism, and literally sacrifice oneself to god and whoever is your president and high lord protector (the title isn't exactly this, but is just as preposterous), whether you be regular Mormon or fundamentalist -- of course, he is a man, without a doubt. The crux of the book is the deaths of Eric and her eight or so year-old daughter at the hands of the Lafferty brothers who still can't decide who officially slit the girls throats. While the book managed to enrage me throughout, it did serve to educate and enlighten me on the religion in general, and on the important differences between the fundamentalists and the Latter Day Saints (LDS). The book also presents the history of Mormonism with Joseph Smith, Brigham Young and what led to the creation of the religion, its development through the decades and centuries, with the Mormons being ostracized wherever they went, until they settled in the deserts of Utah and set about completely ignoring the US government and living their lives as they saw fit. The Church of Latter Day Saints continues to do this to some degree today, and the fundamentalists especially, thriving on it. So let's clear up the main thing first: polygamy. The Church of Latter Day Saints condones and doesn't allow polygamy, after changing this steadfast rule from the D&C (Doctrine and Covenants -- the rulebook which Mormons go by as put down by Joseph Smith, with additions made by Brigham Young and successive \"prophets\") in the nineteenth century when the government essentially pressured them into doing this, since polygamy was (AND STILL IS!) illegal in every state. But in a religion where everyone from the president to the lowly devout woman has the ability to talk with god and receive his instruction; splitting, and the formation of break-off sects and groups is as inevitable as night come sunset. And it it's these break-off groups that form their own churches and communes (Colorado City in Utah is one of these), and they are the fundamentalists groups who believe that the LDS have fallen from the true ruling of god and take it upon themselves to adhere to the D&C as they see fit. The result is a town like Colorado City, in the middle of the desert, isolated, as they like it. There polygamy is a way of life; if you don't subscribe to this way, you are pressured and then ostracized. It is also in this town where anywhere from thirteen to sixteen year-old girls are ordered, yes, ordered by the president to marry whatever man the president decrees, without any choice in the matter. Ordered to marry that man, live with him, and whose sole duty is to bear as many children as possible, no questions asked . . . or you're going to hell! This is the truth. This is life in Colorado City. It is also here that instances of rape and pedophilia are becoming common place, as fathers take a liking to their eleven year-old daughters (whether they be biologically or adopted through marriage), rape them, and them force them to marry their fathers. And it seems pretty pathetic when our president makes it his duty to prevent homosexual marriage from ever being considered, even though homosexuality is a genetic predisposition and is what you simply are, while in Utah there are groups doing what I said above and millions of people worry that it is the homosexuals who risk destroying the sanctity of marriage. Fuck that, is my response. Read the rest of the review at BookBanter. For more reviews, and author interviews, go to BookBanter. ...more Wow. I'm slowly becoming more of a fan of non-fiction, and this book is great for that! Krakauer gives a well-researched (judging from the length of the bibliography) account of the history of the Mormon church, interwoven with an absolutely chilling look at Mormon Fundamentalist communities that practice polygamy in the desert wilds of Utah, Arizona, and Canada. These people are nuts, plain and simple. I can have a limited respect for a watered-down and spiritualist form of religion, but this k Wow. I'm slowly becoming more of a fan of non-fiction, and this book is great for that! Krakauer gives a well-researched (judging from the length of the bibliography) account of the history of the Mormon church, interwoven with an absolutely chilling look at Mormon Fundamentalist communities that practice polygamy in the desert wilds of Utah, Arizona, and Canada. These people are nuts, plain and simple. I can have a limited respect for a watered-down and spiritualist form of religion, but this kind of extremism is just insane. It's a completely irrational justification for the worst kinds of human behavior, including domestic violence, rape, sexual abuse, and, what is central to Krakauer's story, murder. Krakauer has been accused by some of not presenting an even-handed account, and I think it's true that it's easy to see that he thinks Mormon fundamentalism is absurd. On the other hand, it's a rare person who doesn't. And Krakauer refrains (for the most part) from actively condemning or poking fun at his subjects, although it would be very easy to do so. He lets the absurdities of Mormon history and belief speak for themselves. No direct criticism could be so damning. Particularly interesting is the part of the book where Krakauer talks about religion and insanity. He focuses on the story of Ron Lafferty, a Mormon fundamentalist who participates in the brutal murder of a young woman and her 18 month old daughter. During Ron's trial, the prosecution works hard to make the case that Ron, despite his history of hearing voices and his belief that an evil spirit is trying to enter his body through his anus, is mentally competent to stand trial. And part of that argument is arguing that these totally absurd and violent beliefs are really just as rational as any other religious person's beliefs. And since they are, we cannot judge Ron to be insane, because that would be saying that all religious people are insane. In the absence of any rational reason for believing in one version of the supernatural as opposed to another, it is indeed difficult to argue that one belief system is insane, while another deserves to be endorsed by nearly every candidate for the president of the United States. Food for thought, for sure. ...more Leave it to me to avoid a bandwagon (see: \"Arrested Development\") and finally opt to read this heralded book about Mormon killers while on vacation. Shew. And by Mormon killers I do mean both people who kill Mormons and Mormons who kill (kill \"Gentiles\" [anyone not Mormon, including Jews] and kill their own). The book is timely in that Mormon fundamentalists recently sprang into the news again, though hardly by their own desire, with the Texas polygamist colony fiasco in which lachrymose children Leave it to me to avoid a bandwagon (see: \"Arrested Development\") and finally opt to read this heralded book about Mormon killers while on vacation. Shew. And by Mormon killers I do mean both people who kill Mormons and Mormons who kill (kill \"Gentiles\" [anyone not Mormon, including Jews] and kill their own). The book is timely in that Mormon fundamentalists recently sprang into the news again, though hardly by their own desire, with the Texas polygamist colony fiasco in which lachrymose children were stripped from their \"Little House on the Prairie\" dress-wearing mothers and placed with protective services. That intrusion's since been ruled unlawful, and the children were even returned to the compound, to their families. It surely bears noting that this book centers on the killing of a mainline Mormon mother and her infant daughter by fundie Mormons, her estranged husband and brother-in-law. In adopting this thread throughout the book, Krakauer (the uber-successful magazine scribe of Into the Wild and Into Thin Air fame) frames it much like In Cold Blood, Capote's groundbreaking, timeless work. Indeed, it appears more and more as the book progresses that, when he's not content to simply play a prof of Mormon history for a chapter or two, Krakauer's eager to make this read his best go at copping Capote. He largely succeeds. The book's a bit long at 360ish pages but shorter than, say, Devil in the White City, a book I kinda wanted to lump it in with. It's engrossing, immensely readable. The beliefs (of mainline Mormons and their fundie brethren, whether they acknowledge them or not), the histories (grislier than you could imagine, with the prophet Joseph Smith going out in an OK Corral-styled bloodbath in a jailhouse), and the personalities (of Smith, of Brigham Young, and of the everyday Mormons and splinter-group leaders encountered) are all larger than life. Even Elizabeth Smart and her kidnapper make it into the mix, though it seems a distracting digression every time Krakauer drums it up. (We can only assume he bothers due to the CNN familiarity factor.) If this is in fact \"the one true entirely American religion,\" it's a fascinating one. Among the lighter beliefs is that Mormons don't drink coffee or take in caffeine. Then there's the timeline for the permissibility of polygamy (or \"spiritual wifery,\" or \"celestial marriage,\" or whatEVER), which is entirely debatable, depending on who you talk to. I grew so very angry at Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, particularly the former, for the obvious con men, hypocrites, and oft-deplorable husbands and human beings they were, this despite their undeniable charms and ways with words and movement building. (Sound like anyone in today's America?) That someone (Smith) can decry polygamy while at the same time ravishing 20- or even 15-year-old brides himself (up to 45 of them in all) is just something to mourn. Question: How does someone even maintain 45 relationships at once? How can you 45-time these girls? Sheesh. What's more, a lot of the family trees depicted here have inbred branches growing out of inbred branches. I can't emphasize enough how supremely screwed up it is, stepdaughters being taken by their stepfathers and so on. (But to be fair, this was also the century of stateside slavery perped by us Gentiles, although so many wives in this Mormon era could also be deemed slaves.) It's also a chore to follow some of Krakauer's pedigree delineations, reminds one of trying to keep straight all the real-life political characters in Woodward and Bernstein's riveting-and-then-dull All The President's Men. The story begins and ends with the tragic, disgusting deaths of a smart, strong-willed young woman and her daughter. The details of the murders are recounted in such a way that In Cold Blood didn't chill me, in ways that the sexual assault and killing of the girl Susie Salmon in The Lovely Bones' first chapter didn't get to me. I could barely read the relevant sections of this book, wondered why Krakauer included them and wished he'd pull up the reins. But he was and is relentless with all that he does, and writes, and that will not change. A lot about even mainline Mormonism doesn't make sense to me, and seems hushed up so \"Gentiles\" won't trip over it, but the fact remains that, when you meet and know Mormons, you realize they are quite wonderful people. They do much for communities and are largely successful, driven, faithful people. (I mean, look at Mitt Romney.) It just so happens that most of the Mormons - mainliners and fundies both - met in this book are horrendous people, particularly Ron and Dan Lafferty. God bless Brenda and Erica Lafferty, their lives cut far too short by the most senseless reasoning. ...more Also read my review here: http://bookbum.weebly.com/book-review... TRIGGER WARNING: rape, incest, domestic abuse, child abuse, animal abuse, child murder I\u2019m speechless. (OK, maybe not). What the heck did I just read? You\u2019re telling me this is non-fiction? ...How? HOW? This isn\u2019t just some freak incident either, people live like what\u2019s described in this book, I\u2019m baffled by it. I mean I\u2019m a little baffled by strict religious following anyway (no offence meant) but Mormonism is just on another le Also read my review here: http://bookbum.weebly.com/book-review... TRIGGER WARNING: rape, incest, domestic abuse, child abuse, animal abuse, child murder I\u2019m speechless. (OK, maybe not). What the heck did I just read? You\u2019re telling me this is non-fiction? ...How? HOW? This isn\u2019t just some freak incident either, people live like what\u2019s described in this book, I\u2019m baffled by it. I mean I\u2019m a little baffled by strict religious following anyway (no offence meant) but Mormonism is just on another level. The story of Mormonism is so strange because Joseph Smith was a fucking control freak and swindler but also the way society got away with treating him and his followers was awful. You really can\u2019t pick a right and wrong side, they\u2019re both pretty terrible. This book's main focus is on how people's strong faith in Mormonism makes them believe they're above the laws of the land, so they go and commit crimes they think are justified and right. For example, Dan and Ron Lafferty, who truly believe God has spoken to them and told them they need to kill their brothers wife and young baby. A deed done by them so brutally, the poor baby was basically beheaded. Clearly this book isn\u2019t for the faint hearted. One of the saddest moments in this book is when Krakauer meets a Mormon family and their young daughter (I think she was between 8 to 12) comes into the room with floor plans of her dream house, where she's drawn out several different rooms for the other wives of the husband she is going to share. How awful is that, to believe that you must share your husband with other women, because for men of the Mormon faith, women are just child bearers, nothing more. Joseph Smith actually declared God said \"women shall be man's handmaid\". For this young girl to be planning her life with a shared husband and feeling that's normal , even feeling happy about it, is a terrible, terrible thing to think about. This took me around 3 months to finish, not only because I accidentally left this in my dad\u2019s suitcase when I came back from Spain, but also because this was such heavy non-fiction reading. Not only did it describe, in gruesome detail, the crimes committed by those under the Mormon faith, it was also a long historical timeline of how Mormonism was created and has grown to where it currently sits today. ( Did you know, there are currently more Mormons on this planet than Jewish people?) Not to mention the confusion it causes when trying to remind you who everyone is and how everyone is related, because they\u2019re pretty much all related through marriage. This is certainly an interesting read. I'm sure you\u2019ve heard about Mormon\u2019s and the Book of Mormon and polygamy, etc, but never really looked further into it. Well, for those of you that would like to look further into it, then this is the book for you! It's incredible to read all about how Joseph Smith magicked up Mormon faith and how gruesome and evil polygamy really is. I really recommend this book for all of you who love learning about religions or just love to have some random shocking facts to dish out around the dinner table. A seriously interesting, if not disturbing read. ...more This book is a wet dream for wiseass, arrogant agnostics like myself. It's ostensibly about (a) the history of Mormonism; and (b) the brutal murder of a mother and her 2-year-old daughter by a couple of Mormon Fundamentalists who strayed way too far from the flock in the early 1980's. However, the deeper subject is the uneasy coexistence of faith and reason, and how the two have trampled each other throughout history. Without reading this book, you're probably aware that Mormonism is one of the This book is a wet dream for wiseass, arrogant agnostics like myself. It's ostensibly about (a) the history of Mormonism; and (b) the brutal murder of a mother and her 2-year-old daughter by a couple of Mormon Fundamentalists who strayed way too far from the flock in the early 1980's. However, the deeper subject is the uneasy coexistence of faith and reason, and how the two have trampled each other throughout history. Without reading this book, you're probably aware that Mormonism is one of the kookiest religions out there. Magic reading glasses and peepstones, plural marriage, historical anachronisms in the Book of Mormon, church-sanctioned racism and homophobia, the questionable morals of the religion's founding fathers...it's all laid out very well by Krakauer. But he also gives Mormonism the respect it deserves as the world's fastest-growing religion, and rightfully so. After all, just because the big JC didn't walk the earth in the time of printing presses, who's to say it's any quirkier than the oldest religions (or Scientology, for that matter), or that the founding fathers of the thousands of religions that have popped up throughout the ages were any more god-like. The bottom line is faith: you either have it or you don't, and sorry, we're never going to know who\u2019s right until we drop dead (and btw, if the wiseass atheists and agnostics are right, what fun would that be? How can we brag about it if it all just goes poof? DAMN YOU, COLLEGE EDUCATION/DISCOVERY CHANNEL!!! JESUS SAVES!!!). Faith and reason do not coexist. But, as the murder story demonstrates, sometimes they have to form an uneasy truce in figuring out when \"faith\" devolves into \"crime\" or \"insanity.\" Not as easy a task as you'd think. Man, look at that review: I'm so ostensibly cool! Who said that English major was worthless? ...more I'm not going to finish this book. So far, he is recounting the history of the Mormon church without listing a single positive thing. He has taken every exaggerated idea, including some of his own making, and used those to support a warped idea of something that I hold pretty close to my heart. It's kind of the same problem I had with Mark Freiden's The World Is Flat. He only told one side of the story, to praise the ideals of capitalism. My analogy would be like sitting a three year old down an I'm not going to finish this book. So far, he is recounting the history of the Mormon church without listing a single positive thing. He has taken every exaggerated idea, including some of his own making, and used those to support a warped idea of something that I hold pretty close to my heart. It's kind of the same problem I had with Mark Freiden's The World Is Flat. He only told one side of the story, to praise the ideals of capitalism. My analogy would be like sitting a three year old down and telling them about every terrible thing you have ever done in your life to explain how you got to be their parent. It would hurt them a great deal and it would weaken their ideals about you while accomplishing absolutely nothing as far as helping them understand you as their parent. I understand that is the perspective of both books, to tell the one side to build their argument, however, this one is just not for me. Krakauer has done a very good job, though, of taking an awful lot of information and trying to weave a pretty concise history out of a lot of convoluted material. (See what I did right there, Jon. I gave a kind of negative review, but also found something good in it.) ...more The low rating isn't because the book is poorly written--it's not. At times the book is fascinating and at times horrifying (my husband just finished it too and found it riveting). The subject matter, however was pretty dark and gruesome for me personally to enjoy. Although well researched and even-handed at times, as he explored the \"underbelly\" of Mormonism, there was undercurrent of contempt from the author. It showed in the description of a man with a comb-over, liver spots and bad grammar w The low rating isn't because the book is poorly written--it's not. At times the book is fascinating and at times horrifying (my husband just finished it too and found it riveting). The subject matter, however was pretty dark and gruesome for me personally to enjoy. Although well researched and even-handed at times, as he explored the \"underbelly\" of Mormonism, there was undercurrent of contempt from the author. It showed in the description of a man with a comb-over, liver spots and bad grammar who Krakauer chose to represent contemporary LDS people, it showed in the comment of an extreme fundamentalist defector who believed that only a Mormon girl would be caught in Elizabeth Smart's situation (how would she know? she lived in a completely different culture), it showed in the obvious omissions in the teachings of Joseph Smith (like basic articles of faith that promote tolerance of other religions). I'd be interested in reading the authors' response to criticism in the second edition. Thanks to my friend for the recommendation--it certainly has given me a lot of food for thought. ...more Somewhere, there is a story aching to be told about Mormonism, the positive and negative effects of religious faith on thought and psychological development, the painting of an integrated mainstream with the tarred brush of extremist fringes, and the general place of religion in US culture. This book is oh, so totally not it. Isn\u2019t it funny, an amazing coincidence, how the commandments of God so often match the desires, ambitions and bigotries of His self-proclaimed prophets? Feeling horny? That\u2019s cool, God is down with polygamy, bone away to your heart\u2019s content, sin-free! Like drugs? So does God! Smoke up, bro! Hate women? God is so totally over those uppity chicks, dude. Racist? Oh boy this is your lucky day, God is totally racist! Not racist? Wait, God changed his mind, he was just fooling ya. Did that guy just f Isn\u2019t it funny, an amazing coincidence, how the commandments of God so often match the desires, ambitions and bigotries of His self-proclaimed prophets? Feeling horny? That\u2019s cool, God is down with polygamy, bone away to your heart\u2019s content, sin-free! Like drugs? So does God! Smoke up, bro! Hate women? God is so totally over those uppity chicks, dude. Racist? Oh boy this is your lucky day, God is totally racist! Not racist? Wait, God changed his mind, he was just fooling ya. Did that guy just flip you off? The nerve of him. Wait a sec, what\u2019s that God, oh, that guy that just pissed me off is Your enemy and it\u2019s ok to kill him? Nice. Though I am an atheist, I\u2019ve never had a problem with the idea of religion and faith. I think that people have a right to believe whatever they want, as long as it doesn\u2019t harm others. A tepid position maybe, since it can be very difficult to determine exactly what constitutes \u2018harming others\u2019, but I just can\u2019t get behind the rabid condemnation of all religion. Faith, to me, should be an entirely personal thing. I\u2019ve always been suspicious of anyone claiming to have special access to the Truth. I have a really, really hard time understanding the mindset of a true zealot, because there is not a single area of life in which I don\u2019t have some doubts. I simply cannot fathom the mind of a person who claims to KNOW, without a shadow of a doubt, that God has spoken to them. And for that reason, this book was a difficult read for me. That isn\u2019t a criticism. Krakaeur is an engaging and informative writer, and he lays out the general history of the Mormon Church and many of it\u2019s fundamentalist offshoots, as well as the gruesome double-murder of a mother and her infant daughter by fundamentalist Mormon brothers, with clarity and precision. Though I\u2019m sure, from a Mormon point-of-view, there are many things to criticise (I\u2019m vaguely aware of some controversy surrounding this book and it\u2019s reception by the LDS community), and it isn\u2019t terribly difficult to determine what Krakauer\u2019s opinion is, I think he made an effort to present things as fairly as possible. He uses officially sanctioned LDS accounts as well as other independent sources in his recounting of the history of the cult, from it\u2019s inception through to it\u2019s formal abandonment of polygamy. He interviews a wide range of people, letting them speak for themselves, in their own words, interjecting only for clarification, or when their claims are contradicted by other accounts, or basic facts. He very methodically and convincingly lays out exactly how and why a pair of brothers might come to believe that God has commanded them to commit murder, and his account of the murders themselves are raw, brutal and powerful. My difficulty instead came from simply having to spend time with these people. I\u2019m not a good debater. I lose my temper quickly, which makes it difficult to articulate my points coherently, which then further frustrates and angers me, but at least I can sometimes have the satisfaction of venting my ire. But reading the thoughts and opinions of people I strenuously, venomously disagree with robs me of even that. I want to throw the book across the room. I want to rant and rage at these smug, self satisfied assholes, and shatter their ludicrous, harmful beliefs. I want all this knowing that it won\u2019t help, that for you simply cannot reach people like this, and that only compounds my anger and frustration. The inability to admit to mistakes is a common part of the human condition, and isn\u2019t limited to religious people, but the sheer depth of delusion portrayed in this book, and the amount of suffering and harm it has caused and continues to cause, was infuriating to me. And that made the book difficult to read at times, particularly when Krakauer, meticulous to a fault, goes perhaps a little overboard with the details. Thankfully, Krakauer ends things only a slightly satisfying note. Does the enlightenment and hard-won intellectual freedom of a single person outweigh the heinous cycle of violence, misogyny, indoctrination and abuse repeated throughout the book? No, of course not, but it\u2019s at least a reminder that, no matter how fervent the faith, there will always be some who question it. ...more I wouldn't be surprised if Krakauer's first books were fiction novels, which I don't think they are, but I wouldn't be surprised if they were. Why? This book reads like a novel, a very confusing novel, but a novel nonetheless. First things first, there should have been some sort of family tree or timeline or some sort of organizational medium provided besides a map. By the end of the book you have so many people and so many families roaming around you no longer really know who's who except for Jo I wouldn't be surprised if Krakauer's first books were fiction novels, which I don't think they are, but I wouldn't be surprised if they were. Why? This book reads like a novel, a very confusing novel, but a novel nonetheless. First things first, there should have been some sort of family tree or timeline or some sort of organizational medium provided besides a map. By the end of the book you have so many people and so many families roaming around you no longer really know who's who except for Joseph Smith. I also didn't like how we kept jumping around. One minute we're talking about Ron Lafferty trying to kill himself in his jail cell and then suddenly we're hearing about how Joseph Smith found the golden plates in the dirt. In a history such as this one, I would have much perferred a straight-thru shot of everything, rather than this somewhat confusing bundle that was presented to me. One last thing, while I completely understand the neccessity of recounting the history of the Mormon church so it's easier to comprehend the different factions of the church that are out there know and understand their various reasonings, there were certain storylines that only served to confuse more, rather than add to this journey. The book does not put the Mormon church in it's entirety into a bad light, so if you're Mormon, don't let it deterr you from reading this book. Krakauer, while shining light on the wrong the church and it's split-offs have done, he also shows the wrong that's been done to the church and the persecution it's had to go through since it's conception. The whole book is shocking and makes you think, but it's not until the end when we get to the argument of whether or not Ron Lafferty should be declared insane, that you really sit up in interest. It presented a serious problem: If Ron was judged insane, then nearly everyone with a religious conviction of any degree could therefor also be seen as insane. It was that moment that really brought the book together, I felt. Which is sad, because while an interesting and informational read, there wasn't much else to the book until the end when this problem was presented. Read the book, like I said, it's an interesting if not entertaining read and really sheds some light on a religion not many people REALLY understand outside of stupid stereotypes. ...more This is a great, well-researched book on fundamentalist Mormons that will freak you out. Half the book is true-crime drama and the other half is an excellent history of LDS and the many fundamentalist sects that splintered off in order to practice Mormonism Joseph Smith-style (which included polygamy as a key principle). I learned a lot about Mormonism from this book, however I initially felt that Krakauer was a little unfair to mainstream Mormons. In his discussion of the history of both LDS an This is a great, well-researched book on fundamentalist Mormons that will freak you out. Half the book is true-crime drama and the other half is an excellent history of LDS and the many fundamentalist sects that splintered off in order to practice Mormonism Joseph Smith-style (which included polygamy as a key principle). I learned a lot about Mormonism from this book, however I initially felt that Krakauer was a little unfair to mainstream Mormons. In his discussion of the history of both LDS and FLDS, he at times blurs the line between the two very different groups. On the other hand, LDS is a less than 180 years old, meaning its entire history--a bloody, hate-filled, and bizarre one at that--has been documented. (Note: \"bloody, hate-filled, and bizarre\" could be used to describe just about any religion, in my opinion.) Thus, Krakauer was not maliciously criticizing the Mormon church; he was simply relaying publicly available, historical information, information that was necessary for understanding the bizarre FLDS world. Joseph Smith, LDS founder, was a con-artist and a womanizer. Brigham Young, who moved the Mormons to the American West, condoned violence and was complicit in a mass slaughter of 140 innocent people (the Mountain Meadows massacre). Present-day Mormons no longer practice polygamy (and ills such as racism are less institutionalized within the church), but they cannot escape some very harsh (and fairly recent) truths regarding the founding of their religion. The antics of Smith and Young alone are enough to make me wonder how the religion could have possibly lived on, let alone become the fastest-growing religion in the world. The book skips around a bit and you get the sense that Krakauer wasn't sure exactly what he wanted to focus on, but it's definitely worth the read. ...more Dear Jon, This is the third book by you that I've read, the first two being Into the Wild and Into Thin Air . I've given all three books five sparkly stars because I absolutely love your journalistic though artful writing style. However, I must admit that while I thoroughly enjoyed both Into the Wild and Into Thin Air , I just could not relate in any shape or form to the adventure/thrill seeking mentality that drove the characters in those two works. Sure, I was fascinated, captivated, and enterta Dear Jon, This is the third book by you that I've read, the first two being Into the Wild and Into Thin Air . I've given all three books five sparkly stars because I absolutely love your journalistic though artful writing style. However, I must admit that while I thoroughly enjoyed both Into the Wild and Into Thin Air , I just could not relate in any shape or form to the adventure/thrill seeking mentality that drove the characters in those two works. Sure, I was fascinated, captivated, and entertained, but in a detached sort of way. But this, Under the Banner of Heaven , this resonated so much so that I found myself repeatedly resisting the urge to offer up an enthusiastic amen after an especially insightful and enlightening passage, and there were many. So a sincere, thanks. Yours Truly, A Fan Okay...so What is this book about? : Well, that's a tough one. On one hand, I think this book tells the story of two fundamentalist Mormon brothers who, proclaiming to be inspired by their God, commit the viscous murder of their sister-in-law and baby niece. However, that is simply the glue that seems to hold it all together, since a good deal of the book is spent describing the origins (often bloody) of the Mormon church and its founder, Joseph Smith, while another large chunk is used to explore Mormon fundamentalism and extremist branches of the main LDS church with a big chunk spent on some of the fundamentalist's more controversial practices, like polygamy. On a grander scale, I think this book is about the birth of a religion(the good and the bad) whose inception is relatively recent (less than 200 years) and as a result is well documented. And finally, I think this is a book that tries to make sense of how one man's sacred belief can be another man's bizarre delusion . What I loved about the book: While the history of Mormonism is fascinating and the murders/kidnapping/crimes committed by some more extreme fundamentalists are sensational enough to make for an emotionally-charged story, what I really enjoyed about this book was the discussion that surrounded the determination of Roy Lafferty's mental health. Roy Lafferty is an excommunicated member of the Mormon church who turned to a more extreme form of Mormonism, a purer version in his view. He claimed and sincerely believed that God commanded him to kill his sister-in-law, her young daughter, along with two acquaintances he felt bore responsibility for his wife divorcing him, Richard Stowe and Chloe Low. Luckily, either by sheer luck or divine intervention (whichever you choose) Low and Stowe would be spared. Unfortunately, Brenda Lafferty and her daughter Erica were not. While it almost seems to reason that any man capable of coldblooded murder is insane or at least mentally ill, the law looks at it differently. And in this case the determination of Roy's mental state lent itself to a provocative discussion. Whether Ron lived or died would hinge entirely on whether a jury could be convinced that his religious beliefs--including his certainty that God had commanded the removal of Brenda and Erica Lafferty--were not only sincerely held but also so extreme as to be a delusional artifact of a diseased mind. Such a defense would unavoidably raise the same difficult epistomological questions that had come to the fore after the Tenth Circuit Court's ruling in 1991: if Ron Lafferty were deemed mentally ill because he obeyed the voice of his God, isn't everyone who believes in God and seeks guidance through prayer mentally ill as well? In a democratic republic that aspires to protect religious freedom, who should have the right to declare that one person's irrational beliefs are legitimate and commendable, while another person's are crazy? How can a society promote religious faith on one hand and condemn a man for zealously adhering to his faith on the other? This, after all, is a country led by (or at least at the time) a born-again Christian, President George W. Bush, who believes he is an instrument of God and characterizes international relations as a biblical clash between forces of good and evil. pg 294 ...and just how many Americans have killed and died for \"God and their country\"? Also taken from the testimony of Noel Gardner, M.D., a psychiatrist affiliated with the University of Utah Medical School as it appears in this book. Later, Gardner expounded further on the distinction between believing in preposterous religious tenets and clinical delusion. \"A false belief\", he reiterated, \"isn't necessarily a basis of a mental illness.\" He emphasized that most of mankind subscribes to \"ideas that are not particularly rational...For example in something referred to as trans-substantiation. That is when the priest performs the Mass, that the bread and wine become the actual blood and body of Christ. From a scientific standpoint, that is a very strange, irrational, absurd idea. But we accept that on the basis of faith, those of us who believe that. And because it has become so familiar and common to us, that idea of the virgin birth, which from a medical standpoint is highly irrational, but it is an article of faith from a religious standpoint.\" pg 298 Referring to testimony from a Dr. Wootton: All kind of things are accepted by one culture or another that would appear crazy or extreme to those outside the culture, Wootton agreed. pg 300 Dan Lafferty's response when asked to consider if he felt that it was possible that like the terrorists of September 11th, he was misguided.(Dan, Ron's brother, was his partner in the crime.) \"I have to admit, the terrorists were following their prophet,\" Dan says. \"They were wiling to do essentially what I did. I see the parallel. But the difference between those guys and me is, they were following a false prophet, and I'm not.\" pg 318 ...10,000 religions...and only ONE can be right... To whom would I recommend this book? I'd recommend this book to anyone who enjoys investigative journalism with an artistic flare and who is open to discussion of religious belief. In the last chapter, Krakauer shares his own personal non-religious stance, and I think that his skepticism is transparent throughout the story. He obviously isn't making a case in support of Mormonism, or religious belief in general, though he's not advocating against it either, at least not overtly. But one can sense that he doesn't relate to the leap of faith many of the people he interviews have taken. I'll end with two more excerpts both taken from an interview with DeLoy Bateman, a once fundamentalist Mormon/polygamist (not all fundamentalists are polygamists) who is now an atheist, as he reflects on his non-belief. His sentiments happen to mirror my own. \"Could there be a supreme power out there somewhere? Is there a grand plan behind the big bang, the creation of the universe, the evolution of species? I don't know, I suppose it's possible; I guess I'd like to at least allow for the possibility in the back of my mind. But common sense tells me otherwise.\" pg 328 Then later in their interview: \"It's amazing how gullible people are,\" DeLoy continues. \"But you have to remember what a huge comfort the religion is. It provides all the answers. It makes life simple.\" pg 331 ...more From page 324-25 (my book) And both believed completely in the principle of plural marriage [polygamy] \u2013 even though they have not engaged in polygamy themselves. \u2018We\u2019ve considered it many times\u2019 Pamela says, \u2018There have been many, many women who could have been part of our family... I could live the Principle [fundamentalist Mormonism] more easily now that I\u2019m older\u2019... She says the real basis for her faith \u2018is spiritual. It\u2019s all about the spirit that exists in your heart... I tell you when you From page 324-25 (my book) And both believed completely in the principle of plural marriage [polygamy] \u2013 even though they have not engaged in polygamy themselves. \u2018We\u2019ve considered it many times\u2019 Pamela says, \u2018There have been many, many women who could have been part of our family... I could live the Principle [fundamentalist Mormonism] more easily now that I\u2019m older\u2019... She says the real basis for her faith \u2018is spiritual. It\u2019s all about the spirit that exists in your heart... I tell you when you feel that spirit \u2013 the real spirit \u2013 there\u2019s nothing like it. You\u2019re full of fire inside\u2019 OK. The book is about this feeling \u2013 the spirit that Joseph Smith felt in the 1820\u2019s when he single-handedly started his religion \u2013 Mormonism. It resulted directly from his visions and indirectly from the freedom of the marketplace allowed in the U.S. Constitution for religion. And the author also describes the spirit that the Lafferty brothers had \u2013 a vision that told them to murder a woman and her one and a half year old baby. The author tells us how Mormonism started in the U.S. \u2013 and how it was distinctly of the U.S., but yet apart. Mormons were persecuted for their beliefs, for their separateness \u2013 and were forced to flee across the U.S. and finally settled where now resides the state of Utah. This separateness is ingrained into them \u2013 possibly similar to Judaism, in that they feel different from the mainstream community or country they reside in. Adding to this separateness is the fact that Joseph Smith (the founder) was murdered by a mob in Illinois. Mormonism is now one of the fastest growing religions and has spread significantly across North America \u2013 into both Mexico and Canada. Because it is such a new religion (in contrast to, for example, Christianity) it is much easier to analyze its commencement and development. The author takes us through these stages and we are shown the peculiarities of the Mormon religion. Its\u2019 doctrines are outlined in the \u201cBook of Mormon\u201d written and inspired by Joseph Smith. And then there were add-ons. These were further revelations of Joseph Smith and of his successors. The most controversial was of polygamy. Joseph Smith had this one, but it was only added on posthumously a few years after his death, mostly due to its controversial nature. His first wife also was not particularly willing to legitimize publicly the relationship her husband was having with his younger girlfriends. The ability of members to experience revelations is both a strength and weakness of the religion. It allows change, but also gives its members a free rein to experience their own revelations. These revelations are suppose to originate from God and suppose to take precedence over the rule of secular society. And Mormons are expected to act on these revelations. And they do. A later revelation caused them to renounce polygamy. As I was reading this book about the many \u201cinspired revelations\u201d that kept happening to various people over many years, another word for \u201crevelation\u201d occurred to me which was \u201cdaydream\u201d. As in all religions, splinter groups started to form which claimed to have the purer form of Mormonism. This happened more so after the official Church renounced polygamy. There are now several fundamentalists Mormon colonies spread far and wide across North America where leaders have had the revelation and now practise polygamy. Besides simply not adding up in terms of an equal distribution of male and female partners, in many cases polygamy is simply a lame excuse for predatory males to acquire underage brides. The author gives us several examples. I do feel the book, by emphasizing the Lafferty brothers and their awful crimes, overlooks the mainstream Latter Day Saints Church. One could argue the Laffertys\u2019 do not represent The Church of the Latter Day Saints. We do learn that the main Latter Saints Church is hierarchical with an emphasis on obedience, that women do not participate in the upper management of the Church (and how different is that from any other religion?) , and also that revelations (there is that mystical, magical word again) continue to play a significant role. I also felt the author gave undue emphasis to the writing rants of the Lafferty\u2019s. The origins of Mormonism were far more interesting. It is like the author veered off to talk about the lunatic fringe \u2013 and to some extent was successful in tying this to the overall Mormon religion \u2013 so this still makes the book very worthwhile. Page 272 Utah has been called the \u2018fraud capital of the world\u2019 by the Wall Street Journal... The uncommonly high incidence of fraud is a direct consequence of the uncommonly high percentage of Utah County residents who are Mormons. Michael Hines, director of enforcement for the Utah Securities Division warned, \"People need to realize that God is not a good investment advisor\". Page 331 \u2013 DeLoy Bateman [an ex fundamentalist Mormon] But some things are more important than being happy. Like being free to think for yourself. ...more I find it difficult to talk about religion because it\u2019s forbidden to call it into question without being labeled \u201camoral\u201d or quite simply just without hurting other people\u2019s feelings. But this inability to discuss it has led to a lot of crimes committed in the name of God, and I think, like everything, to create positive change, religion needs to be interrogated. But as Jon Krakauer exposes in his exploration of Mormonism Under the Banner of Heaven , religion refuses any attempt at interrogation, I find it difficult to talk about religion because it\u2019s forbidden to call it into question without being labeled \u201camoral\u201d or quite simply just without hurting other people\u2019s feelings. But this inability to discuss it has led to a lot of crimes committed in the name of God, and I think, like everything, to create positive change, religion needs to be interrogated. But as Jon Krakauer exposes in his exploration of Mormonism Under the Banner of Heaven , religion refuses any attempt at interrogation, hiding itself behind the specter of \u201cfaith.\u201d Faith. Impossible to understand because when you ask any questions about it, someone will respond that you merely \u201chave to have faith.\u201d How can you evaluate something that can\u2019t be seen or heard or touched but merely felt? Krakauer does so by going back to the very beginnings of the Mormon faith, telling the story of Joseph Smith and his golden tablets from God unearthed in Upstate New York to Brigham Young and his bloody war against US domination. At the same time he intersperses anecdotes from modern Mormons, particularly from the Fundamentalist sect, who believe, on faith, all sorts of weird things. A common belief among these men (they\u2019re always men; since the Church only allowed black priests in 1978, I think sexual equality won\u2019t arrive for quite some time) is that they all happen to be God\u2019s one and only unique prophet who can interpret his word on Earth. This story is a wild ride, incredibly readable despite dealing in straight fact, simply because for any non-Mormon and particularly for any non-\u201cfaith\u201d-y person, it\u2019s obvious, hilariously so, how ridiculous this religion can be. For example, if you look at historical documentation surrounding Mormonism, Joseph Smith\u2019s divine proclamation supporting polygamy is not divine so much as he wanted a godly excuse for his earthly philandering ways. Celestial marriage, as the Mormons call it, has been the most divisive issue in the Church ever since, pretty funny considering it was created because the Church\u2019s founder just couldn\u2019t keep it in his pants. Another surprising thing I learned from this book: Mormonism was born in blood. Lots of it. The Western world loves to call out Muslims as bloodthirsty barbarians, but look no farther than the late 1800s in Utah, where Mormons murdered hundreds of \u201cGentiles\u201d sometimes for political posturing, sometimes just because. If you\u2019re at all interested in Mormonism, that uniquely American brand of faith which, by the by, is also one of the fastest growing religions on the planet, Under the Banner of Heaven is a terrific entry. For the faith or the faithless, there is something here. I finished it with a greater understanding of Mormon history but still no appreciation as to why some people are so compelled to believe. And for once, I\u2019m okay not knowing, cognizant that \u201cknowing\u201d would mean \u201cunknowing\u201d almost everything else. ...more<---C>Jon Krakauer</---C><+++>Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith</+++>", "Title": "Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith"},
