{"Comments": "I cannot adequately express my complete and utter loathing for this book. I was working at a library during the time that this book was being published and had access to a galley of the novel. I did finish it, but only so I could know (<---B>entirely how much</---B>) <---A>Christopher Paolini</---A> (the supposed 16-year-old author-genius) had plagiarized J.R.R.<---F> Tolkien's \"Lord of The Rings\" trilogy</---F>. If you are not familiar with the Inheritance books, allow me to inform you: Lord of the Rings: Trilogy <---C>Eragon</---C>: Trilogy Lord o I cannot adequately express my complete and utter loathing for this book. I was working at a library during the time that this book was being published and had access to a galley of the novel. I did finish it, but only so I could know (entirely how much) Christopher Paolini (the supposed 16-year-old author-genius) had plagiarized J.R.R. Tolkien's \"Lord of The Rings\" trilogy. If you are not familiar with the Inheritance books, allow me to inform you: Lord of the Rings: Trilogy <+++>Eragon</+++>: Trilogy Lord of the Rings: a main character Aragorn <+++>Eragon</+++>: main charactor Eragon Lord of the Rings: Aragorn's love interest is Arwen (the daughter of an elf king) Eragon: Eragon's love interest is Arya (the daughter of an elf king) Lord of the Rings: bad flying things are Ringwraiths Eragon: bad flying things are Ra'zac Lord of the Rings: there is a big fight in the troll dungeons Eragon: there is a big fight in the troll dungeons I could continue...suffice it to say, after reading \"Eragon\" I classified it as \"Lord of the Rings\" with a dragon. This is definitely not worth anyone's time, unless you want to amuse yourself by noting how many similarities there are between the trilogies. Addendum: WOW! Thanks for all the comments. This is,<---M> by far</---M>, my most popular review. I'm glad to know others share my feelings for this pitiful excuse of an imaginative novel. Addendum 2: If you, like so many others in the comments, find fault with my apparent ignorance and wish to correct me regarding the fact that this series is not a trilogy, please see comment #53. Addendum 3: I can't even. I just can't. Do you know how many people have commented on the fact that this isn't a trilogy since I added Addendum 2 SPECIFICALLY addressing that? I don't even know how many because I've lost count. What does this teach us? It teaches us that people don't read. Let that sink in. ...more Standard fantasy fare, except that while most fantasy authors lift their plots only vaguely from a previous author, Eragon is simply the plot of Star Wars with a Lord of the Rings paintjob: Princess flees, trying to keep precious item out of the evil emperor's hands. Boy finds item. Bad guys burn down his farm and kill his uncle. Old mysterious man helps him, and turns out to be part of a secret order of knights to which boy's (now evil) father belonged. Gives boy father's sword and takes him (ev Standard fantasy fare, except that while most fantasy authors lift their plots only vaguely from a previous author, Eragon is simply the plot of Star Wars with a Lord of the Rings paintjob: Princess flees, trying to keep precious item out of the evil emperor's hands. Boy finds item. Bad guys burn down his farm and kill his uncle. Old mysterious man helps him, and turns out to be part of a secret order of knights to which boy's (now evil) father belonged. Gives boy father's sword and takes him (eventually) to princess, then dies tragically. Boy learns how to fly X-Wings (er, dragons) and goes to take on his father and the evil emperor, &c., &c. Paolini also resembles other fantasy authors by denying that he is a fantasy author, instead imagining that he is a great literary talent. In his own words: \"In my writing, I strive for a lyrical beauty somewhere between Tolkien at his best and Seamus Heaney's translation of Beowulf\" (1) Unfortunately, his control of language is more akin to a piece of Harry Potter fanfic. There are some days that I wish my parents ran their own publishing company, too. However, if such a boon would require me to write as obliviously as Paolini, I would have to decline. Yeah, I know he was eighteen, but so was Byron when he wrote \"Hours Of Idleness\" and Pope when he wrote his \"Essay on Criticism\". If Paolini doesn't hesitate to compare himself to (what he sees as) literary greats, I certainly have no problem with letting my criticism fall with equal weight on his little bit of fluff. I think the reason I keep returning to Pulp writers like Robert E. Howard is that those authors just wanted to write exciting stories instead of the next 'literary event'. Authors who lack pretension often write very good stories, because they aren't forcing themselves to write overblown, overly-complex stories. Many modern fantasy authors do the opposite: they write redundant escapist yarns and then get upset that no one considers them to be literary greats, yet. There is nothing new or interesting here for anyone who has read fantasy before--it's just a rehash of old cliches. The writing, pacing, and characterization are substandard. I wasn't surprised to find that a teen boy wrote this book--it's exactly what I would expect a teenage fantasy fan to write. My Fantasy Book Suggestions ...more Two or three years ago, everywhere I went there was some display attempting to sell me Eragon , by Christopher Paolini. It was obviously a bad book without opening the cover: the back cover carries a quote from the book, and an endorsement by Anne McCaffrey, and I'm pretty sure I could get that woman to supply a blurb for a double mint wrapper to the effect of \"I couldn't put it down! An author ... to watch for!\" The quote is \"Wind howled through the night, carrying a scent that would change the Two or three years ago, everywhere I went there was some display attempting to sell me Eragon , by Christopher Paolini. It was obviously a bad book without opening the cover: the back cover carries a quote from the book, and an endorsement by Anne McCaffrey, and I'm pretty sure I could get that woman to supply a blurb for a double mint wrapper to the effect of \"I couldn't put it down! An author ... to watch for!\" The quote is \"Wind howled through the night, carrying a scent that would change the world.\" Please note, the author has just claimed that the world is going to be changed by a smell. Which would actually be an interesting book, sadly, not this one. I know this, because that quote is the first sentence of the book, and what the author means is \"Wind howled through the night, carrying a scent giving warning of the coming of persons who would set in motion events that would change the world.\" I know, it lacks a certain something. Better the eighty percent of the pit of voles, but still, undeserving of being published. I do not blame Paolini for writing a bad book. People write, and sometimes, they write badly. But I do blame the editor, and his publishing house. This book is crap, and it should have been obvious to anyone who read it. The main character's most interesting bit of characterization and only vestige of personality is that he collects rocks, and this is only mentioned in one paragraph. He's a transparent sue. Everyone acts as if they have just acquired their motivations and history on a 3x5 card before walking on for their scene. The plot is a clumsy clunker that is foreshadowed on page 22. He has never known his father, and his mother refused to answer questions about him! Do you think this will turn up again later? His name is Eragon. Like dragon, but with an E. An old man pops in to tell what in a better novel would be suspiciously appropriate myths and folktales every time Eragon needs to know what is going on. Descriptive sections are often incomprehensible, as for example, \"His hand was numb, his fingers paralysed. Alarmed, he watched as the middle of his palm shimmered and formed a diffuse white oval.\" The only reason I know what the author is intending to say there is because I have read enough fantasy to recognize the Mystical Mark. Our hero makes decisions that make no sense, simply because they are necessary to move the plot forward. Obstacles like hiding a dragon from those living in your house are hand waved away in two paragraphs. Things that oughtn't be obstacles, like buying groceries, are, just to build sympathy with the protagonist by inserting baseless discrimination. Why publish this!? Were they incapable of finding something more deserving? Was this book even edited? Is he someone's nephew? Publishing this book is an insult to readers and a disservice to writers everywhere, including Mr. Paolini. It's like telling someone they look great when they have spinach in their teeth. Dammit! ...more Here is a short list of things I find more enjoyable than reading Eragon : Why does this book read like it was written by a fantasy-obsessed 15-year-old? Oh, nevermind... Is THAT why is has EVERY single one moth-eaten fantasy clich\u00e9??? It's like Paolini actually, in all seriousness, used Diana Wynne Jones' humorous The Tough Guide to Fantasyland as a real technical manual on how to create the Eragon universe. And the proud parents of a budding \"new Tolkien\", instead of proudly allowing him to read Here is a short list of things I find more enjoyable than reading Eragon : Why does this book read like it was written by a fantasy-obsessed 15-year-old? Oh, nevermind... Is THAT why is has EVERY single one moth-eaten fantasy clich\u00e9??? It's like Paolini actually, in all seriousness, used Diana Wynne Jones' humorous The Tough Guide to Fantasyland as a real technical manual on how to create the Eragon universe. And the proud parents of a budding \"new Tolkien\", instead of proudly allowing him to read it out loud at family gatherings, decided to publish it and unleash it upon the world. * LEFT - the ride that this story promises to take you on. RIGHT - what you actually get. The only way to actually enjoy Eragon is if you have never encountered a single fantasy-related story in your life (and that includes \"Star Wars\", by the way). Let's have a roll call for the clich\u00e9s, shall we? A mysterious talented orphan/poor farm boy? Check . Dragons? Check . Elves and dwarves? Check . Stew? Check . Ancient sword? Check . The weird apostrophe-ridden names (save the protagonists, of course?) Check . A quest? Check . Hot chick Damsel in distress? Check . And it goes on and on and on... Wait, you say, maybe Paolini was deliberately paying homage to the traditions of the fantasy genre. Fine. I suppose that could explain some of it. But still, blindly and straightforwardly rehashing of the old tropes without adding much originality IS NOT OKAY, okay? I think that the writing is immature and betrays the author's young age and lack of experience. Throughout the novel, Paolini clumsily brings our attention to anything that he considers important to the story with constant reminders and brick-sized hints. Foreshadowing should be subtle, but I don't think he quite grasps that concept. The descriptions are trying too hard to be Tolkien-like, but fail at this miserably. His attempts at creating accents and dialects are pathetic. There were quite a few instances when I had to shake my head muttering, \"I don't think this word means what you think it does\". The prose is stilted and quite irritating while trying to be overly pretentious. OH, I SEE... The characters are flat and devoid of any believable personality, with shallow and simplistic motivations that only exist to move the plot forward. The interactions between them are far-fetched and forced. The protagonist (Paolini's version of Luke Skywalker), absolutely marvelous at so many cool things with minimal training (every child's dream) is there for the reader to self-insert into the story. The deux-ex-machina bits replace so many actual solutions in this story that no amount of eyerolling would suffice. And the plot holes - the story is so full of those there's barely any plot left at all. As for the worldbuilding - well, he stuffs it with every imaginable fantasy trope, as I mentioned before. Ughhhh. And yet at the end nothing is memorable. \" Wind howled through the night, carrying a scent that would change the world.\" The first sentence alone should have stopped me from reading this book. I should have reorganized my sock drawer instead. Why did I read it if I hated it, you ask? Simple answer - I was bored and this was the only book within reach. I would NOT recommend it to those who are familiar with the fantasy genre. Actually, scratch that - I would not recommend it to anyone. 1 star. ...more I LOVE the Inheritance books. I had never heard of Christopher Paolini before, and was walking through Barnes and Noble when I saw this book on the end display. What caught my eye was the dragon on the front cover (I love dragons, and my \"artistic eye\" was captivated by the artwork). This is a great fiction/adventure/fantasy novel. Anyone who is a Lord of the Rings would truly have an appreciation for this book. I was hooked from the moment I picked up this book and began reading. The story begi I LOVE the Inheritance books. I had never heard of Christopher Paolini before, and was walking through Barnes and Noble when I saw this book on the end display. What caught my eye was the dragon on the front cover (I love dragons, and my \"artistic eye\" was captivated by the artwork). This is a great fiction/adventure/fantasy novel. Anyone who is a Lord of the Rings would truly have an appreciation for this book. I was hooked from the moment I picked up this book and began reading. The story begins with a young farm boy, named Eragon, from a small village. While hunting in the wilderness in search of food for their family, Eragon comes across a rare stone (which is later revealed to be a dragon egg). He takes it home with him and to his suprise the egg hatches and out comes Saphira. The two are instantly connected as a Dragon and Rider making them inseparable. Once Saphira is big enough to fly they set out to seek revenge for the death of Eragon's uncle who was murdered. This is just the begining of their journey throughout the land battling mysterious, evil forces. A very good book to cuddle up with on a cool fall day or during the winter when you need a good adventure to bring you out of being stuck in your house. ...more EDIT: Re-wrote/fixed up this review on 8/21/2012 to reflect my changes as a critiquer/reviewer Right so. I'll just say it: I hate Paolini's work. To my very core. I don't really think it's so much the \"he stole from Tolkien/Lucas/Gandhi/God/my dog..,\" though whoever may say this has a point. Even though he blatantly took ideas from pioneers in their respective fields, that isn't what bothers me the most. When I was fourteen, I admired him out of mere jealously. I was absolutely green with envy tha EDIT: Re-wrote/fixed up this review on 8/21/2012 to reflect my changes as a critiquer/reviewer Right so. I'll just say it: I hate Paolini's work. To my very core. I don't really think it's so much the \"he stole from Tolkien/Lucas/Gandhi/God/my dog..,\" though whoever may say this has a point. Even though he blatantly took ideas from pioneers in their respective fields, that isn't what bothers me the most. When I was fourteen, I admired him out of mere jealously. I was absolutely green with envy that he could publish a book at age fifteen and receive any kind of acclaim. But in retrospect (and nearly vomiting as I attempted to get through a chapter of Eldest , which I failed at miserably), I realized that I had no reason to envy Paolini at all. He doesn't know how to write. String together a vague semblance of a story? Possibly. But at the end of the day, the description is purple, the dialogue is stilted, and the character development is next to non-existent. For starters, has anyone noticed that he is obsessed with stating distances? Something like, \"Two feet away stood three troops of fifty, in rows of five, making ten people per row\" is a sentence uncannily close to one I read in the actual book itself. This kind of information is superfluous and distracting, taking away from important aspects of a novel such as character development--which, by the way, he integrates next to none of. Who is Eragon? I seem to have forgotten everything about him, other than the fact that he is creepily obsessed with a woman who has no interest in him, he acquires fighting skills incredibly fast (read: Mary Sue red-flag), and only reprehensible villains disagree with him. Basically, he's perfect, and he only gets even more amazing at everything he does. Where is the fun in a character like that? I do, however, remember Murtagh... a little. Probably because he's the only one who changes at all as a character throughout the book, other than the occasional insight into Eragon's personal airplane--I mean, pet dragon--I mean, companion, Saphira. Even her characterization is sacrificed because she's used as a plot device by Paolini rather than fleshed out as an actual character. None of the characters are memorable and the main character is my least favorite character of them all! How are we supposed to root for the main character when he is nothing but an arrogant snot, constantly reaffirming a holier-than-thou attitude to everyone around him? The plot is a cliche hero's journey that has been done before, and better , might I add. Where's the appeal in that? Answer: there is none. What left is there to hold in high regard? His world building skills? False. I don't know why he decided that his world of Alagaesia had to have EVERY single climate condition imaginable, but doing so made his world seem juvenile, fake, and forced. Not to mention boring judging by the awful over-description of said world. With regards to the language he \"created\"? He mostly ripped from old Norse words. He's admitted to it himself. Look, anyone can string a bunch of letters together and call it a language. But Paolini hasn't a single clue when it comes to linguistics. And hey, I'll admit that I don't either. But I also don't try to create my own languages--that I more or less steal--and claim that I created all by myself. Seriously, Paolini's alleged arrogance (based on interviews I've seen/read) disgusts me. All in all, sure, it's fantastic that he published a book at such a young age, but are we as a society lowering the bar that much as to celebrate mediocrity? The man is now twenty-eight years old and his successive books Eldest , Brisingr and finally, Inheritance are decidedly much worse than his first book on every front. That he wrote when he was fifteen . This is a huge problem in my eyes. Someone so unwilling to grow or change like any other writer should have their title of \"writer\" stripped from them. It's insulting. ...more seriously, Ben. Why have you not read this sooner. This beast has been sat on your TBR pile for years. What is wrong with you? Was little Ben intimidated by the size? I FINALLY READ THIS BOOK and breath I honestly think this is one of the best fantasy YA stories. Such a classic! ERAGON YOU ARE MIGHTY FINEEEEEEE Before we get started -Please, please do not judge a book by its movie. -I read Eragon for the first time when I was 15 years old.I've re-read it 5 times since (I didn't own many books back then so after I took advantage of my neighbor's and my cousin's library,I kept re-reading my poor collection) and every time I loved it just the same,because it was the book that introduced me to the world of fantasy . The story When I got this beauty in my hands,I thought that Eragon was the dragon (laugh all Before we get started -Please, please do not judge a book by its movie. -I read Eragon for the first time when I was 15 years old.I've re-read it 5 times since (I didn't own many books back then so after I took advantage of my neighbor's and my cousin's library,I kept re-reading my poor collection) and every time I loved it just the same,because it was the book that introduced me to the world of fantasy . The story When I got this beauty in my hands,I thought that Eragon was the dragon (laugh all you want,I deserve it).But it turns out Eragon is the teenage boy who finds the dragon named Saphira and together they are the only ones who can fight the powerful and corrupted tyrant Galbatorix.With an old storyteller as his mentor,Eragon travels in Alagaesia,finds dwarves and elves and rebels and embraces his heritage and his responsibility as the last Dragonrider,the protector of the weak and the only hope of an oppressed people. \u201cKeep in mind that many people have died for their beliefs; it's actually quite common. The real courage is in living and suffering for what you believe.\u201d Reaction of 15 years old Katerina Reaction of 23 years old Katerina You get the picture. Thoughts I know there is a great amount of readers who found this book boring and slow paced and nothing special.Maybe if I read it for the first time as an adult I would agree,maybe I wouldn't.But as things turned out,this is the first book that took me away in uncharted lands,it was my Brom to the fantasy world.I know by heart the ancient language,I still use the dwarven curses (and it is very satisfactory),I still look at it with great affection and love.Eragon could be immature but it is expected from a teenager,and there were so many interesting and vivid characters,like Brom and Murtagh and Arya and Roran and Orik.The world building is fascinating,and there are epic battles and ancient swords and deaths and magic and prophecies . It is a wonderful journey to embrace one's destiny and purpose. \u201cBooks are my friends, my companions.They make me laugh and cry and find meaning in life.\u201d And that's exactly what Eragon is.I can't guarantee that you will like this book,but you should give it a chance to bewitch you and make you a Dragonrider! S\u00e9 onr sverdar sitja hvass! ...more appalling. as if written by an enthusiastic but tragically over-encouraged teenager with insufferably supportive parents who somehow happen to be well-connected in the publishing indus\u2014wait. ...oh. carry on, then. A short (and somewhat sarcastic) summary: Main character = Eragon, mysteeeeerious boy-child left with his aunt and uncle by wandering mother, father unknown. Boy finds mysteeeeerious stone. Turns out to be dragon egg. Boy raises dragon and bonds with it strongly. Bad guys come and destroy boy's house and kill his uncle. Boy swears revenge. Boy's secret dragon is discovered by mysteeeerious storyteller who turns out to be master swordsman and random magic user. The hunt for the bad guys begins, a A short (and somewhat sarcastic) summary: Main character = Eragon, mysteeeeerious boy-child left with his aunt and uncle by wandering mother, father unknown. Boy finds mysteeeeerious stone. Turns out to be dragon egg. Boy raises dragon and bonds with it strongly. Bad guys come and destroy boy's house and kill his uncle. Boy swears revenge. Boy's secret dragon is discovered by mysteeeerious storyteller who turns out to be master swordsman and random magic user. The hunt for the bad guys begins, and boy searches for his destiny as a legendary Dragon Rider (of course, that must be capitalized). Eragon goes through traditional bouts of training and learning about himself under the stern tutelage of old wise traveling companion. Along the way he gains and loses friends, and rescues a mysteeeerious woman from a horrible dungeon while never straying from his quest to put right all that is wrong in a world oppressively ruled by an evil king. This book has gotten lots of attention since it first came out, partly because the author is so young. He was fifteen when he started the book, and was nineteen when it was published. Age isn't always correlated with mastery, of course, but when I read this book, I could TELL that the writer was either young or an immature writer. Though it seems people think it \"got published\" somehow because of its great merit, this book was actually self-published by the author's parents (company was Paolini International), and then it was paraded around on a self-funded signing tour the way most self-published people do. An established author happened to run into the family doing a signing while he was on vacation, thought a kid writing a book was interesting, bought a copy and made his stepson read it, and decided to try to get the book a deal when the kid liked it. The people at Knopf re-edited and repackaged and re-released it under that label. I believe that if this book had meandered its way to publishing houses the usual way, it would have been rejected as unpublishable, for reasons I will discuss in depth here. Christopher Paolini himself, in his own words, describes his story thus: \"Eragon is an archetypal hero story, filled with exciting action, dangerous villains, and fantastic locations. There are dragons and elves, sword fights and unexpected revelations, and of course, a beautiful maiden who's more than capable of taking care of herself.\" I would argue that this book is not an \"archetypal hero story\" so much as an overused and overly traditional Tolkienien \"epic,\" with \"epic\" in quotes because it lacks exactly that epic nature that made the world of Lord of the Rings so rich. There was absolutely nothing new or \"unexpected\" in this book (though the author claims there are \"revelations\"), and if a reader is excited by this book, they are probably reacting to the concepts themselves (e.g., fantasy worlds, dragons, fierce battles) rather than the book's own merit, or perhaps they have never been exposed to the dozens of fantasy and science fiction epics from which this author pulled his influences. My feeling was that this book was nothing special because, if I may be so blunt, \"it's been done,\" and it's been done better. Overall, I just think that this book was written as though it had a template or blueprint for \"traditional fantasy novel\" and the details and names were simply filled in. I couldn't help feeling the entire time I was reading it that I had read this story before, nothing was much of a surprise, and things that didn't make sense or got in the way of a conflicting original vision were smoothed over with excuses or deliberate muddling of motives. I think that in order to write something so traditional, a writer needs something special, a unique twist or slant, and this just hasn't got it. (In other words, I'm not saying that writing an \"archetypal fantasy epic\" is BAD; I'm saying that it needs to not be a rehashing of overused themes that have been done to death by classic writers.) The boy and his powerful companion having an intimate relationship? Done, in everything from Anne McCaffrey to freaking Digimon . The hero quest to punish the baddies and bring the good guys back into power? Done, in Lord of the Rings and Star Wars . Lush descriptions of landscapes and surroundings? Done by Tolkien of course, but more as a background to action rather than in stagnant heaps of detail. Mysterious companions to whom there is more than meets the eye? I don't even want to think about all the books and movies that have done that. I can't pick out a single thing that this book has that has never been done before, the characters didn't interest or capture me, the storytelling was riddled with too many attempts to be grand that I was just entirely turned off by it. Some specifics about the bad writing style: Every imaginable permutation of the word \"said\" is used. If the reader cannot tell how someone is saying something by what they are saying, it is likely that the dialogue has been written sloppily. \"'You're not thinking,' admonished Brom.\" Yes, that is an admonishment without you telling us so. Leave it out. \"'Get on with the story,' he said impatiently.\" Well, if one person is urging another to get on with it, it stands to reason that it's being said impatiently. Running into \"'Sorry,' apologized Brom\" made me cringe. The fact that Brom said \"Sorry\" means that he apologized, so use \"said.\" You can deviate from \"said\" if for some reason HOW the sentence is said is not obvious, such as volume (\"he whispered\") or intent (\"he said sarcastically,\" if it isn't obvious that that's a sarcastic comment anyway). Leave out the decorations because they're tacky. The speech tags are not the part of the writing that is supposed to be interesting, so don't distract us; believe me when I say that if you do it, nearly any editor will consider it an early warning sign that you are an amateur. Unnecessary description is inserted with maddening frequency. I am not usually a reader of traditional fantasy, and traditional fantasy does tend to be more flowery than the hard stuff, but either way random descriptions should not just be thrown into the mix. Eragon is waking up and stretching. Suddenly we get a description of the items on his night table, including the random information that he likes to look at one of the objects on it frequently. In the meantime, while we are getting this rush of information, Eragon is putting on his shoes. He then does not proceed to touch, pick up, or look at anything on the night table, and none of it is ever mentioned again. Also, people and places just get sudden paragraphs of description. We're fighting an Urgal and all of a sudden . . . drop some description on us. While he's rushing at Eragon with drooling fangs, no less. By all means, describe the fangs, slipping the adjectives in gracefully. But don't give us a run-down of a typical Urgal when we're a lot more interested in whether those fangs are going into Eragon's head. And lastly, too many words, phrases, and concepts seem to be entirely lifted from other well-known works. Word choice seemed as though it was the author's attempt to use all his SAT words; it was verbose and flowery as if on purpose, trying to impress with vocabulary that would have been better used sparingly. The similarity of some people's and places' names to those of Tolkien have not gone unnoticed by seasoned fantasy readers; I have heard several people call this book \"Aragorn\" without even noticing that they weren't saying it right, not to mention things like Ardwen (compared with Arwen), Isenstar (compared with Isengard), and Isidar (compared with Isildur)--and there are a LOT more. A ridiculous number of phrases seem to be something I've heard before, though I'm not sure where; for example, near the beginning someone is touching a wrapped package repeatedly, \"as if to reassure herself that it was still there.\" I mentioned this to a friend and said, \"That's FROM something.\" He replied, \"It's FROM everything!\" Far too often, ridiculously overused or clich\u00e9d similes and metaphors are used, such as tears being described as \"liquid diamonds.\" It is less like this book was written and more like it was sewn together from the torn apart products of others, like some old quilt on which the stitches are showing. (How's that for an original simile?) There's definitely not enough space in this little box (which has a character limit) for me to go into as much detail as I'd like talking about how bad this book is, so if you really want to read my ranting in all its entirety, you might want to check out my essay about it on my website. ...more September 2015 Updated Review Although written by a homeschooled teenager (and it definitely shows, especially in the sequels), I was entertained by this novel. I had seen the movie first which makes it look like the world was cobbled together while trying to bridge the gap between Star Wars and Lord of the Rings , and was turned off to reading the novels. After being told by a cousin of mine that the book was next to nothing like the movie, I tried it out and fortunately found the statement to be September 2015 Updated Review Although written by a homeschooled teenager (and it definitely shows, especially in the sequels), I was entertained by this novel. I had seen the movie first which makes it look like the world was cobbled together while trying to bridge the gap between Star Wars and Lord of the Rings , and was turned off to reading the novels. After being told by a cousin of mine that the book was next to nothing like the movie, I tried it out and fortunately found the statement to be fair. While not the most original story (seriously, there are too many Star Wars + Lord of the Rings moments to count), I have to give the author credit for plodding onward into his bloated first novel. Other than the fact that the story seems contrived, I was completely taken out of the story when they start talking about molecules and cells in a medieval-ish setting. It just seemed completely incongruous and anachronistic. I give it 3 stars only because it was written by a 15 year old. If a thirty year old had written this, it would receive 2. ...more Probably the most expensive fanfiction I've ever read. I'm not sure what possessed the publishing company to publish this book (although I heard that Christopher Paolini was self-published at first). I also wrote a book when I was 16 (much like Paolini) and the quality was pretty much the same as Eragon , that is to say, awful. Eragon (the character) is a total Mary Sue/Gary Stu: he learns to fight with a sword in just a few weeks, his past is angsty, he's the first dragon rider for centuries, Probably the most expensive fanfiction I've ever read. I'm not sure what possessed the publishing company to publish this book (although I heard that Christopher Paolini was self-published at first). I also wrote a book when I was 16 (much like Paolini) and the quality was pretty much the same as Eragon , that is to say, awful. Eragon (the character) is a total Mary Sue/Gary Stu: he learns to fight with a sword in just a few weeks, his past is angsty, he's the first dragon rider for centuries, etc etc. This becomes even more clear in the next book, Eldest . Everyone loves Eragon, and those who don't are evil or will repent their ways (see the elf-dude that he fights in Eldest . In Eldest he becomes this superhero, half-elf half-human, while of course the other characters mainly remain stock characters: the dwarf with an axe, the beautiful but haughty elf lady. Brom is of course the wise old mentor, like Gandalf, or perhaps more like Obi-Wan Kenobi from Star Wars, which the whole trilogy rips off anyway. The only interesting character is Murtagh, but he turns out to be evil. I won't be surprised if he dies in the next book, or becomes Eragon's henchman after he realises how \"awesome and cool\" Eragon really is. ...more i learned that this book kicks butt i mean common ppl you see this explosion in a forest gather up the guts to go see what it was and its a hue piece of saphire (or is it?) well then eragon goes around trying to sell it because his family is poor but know one wants it because it came out of the spine! (for those that dont know what te spine is its a collection of mountians only the brave go in but only the lucky come out) i seen the movie and i literally wanted to send a P.O. email to him i swea i learned that this book kicks butt i mean common ppl you see this explosion in a forest gather up the guts to go see what it was and its a hue piece of saphire (or is it?) well then eragon goes around trying to sell it because his family is poor but know one wants it because it came out of the spine! (for those that dont know what te spine is its a collection of mountians only the brave go in but only the lucky come out) i seen the movie and i literally wanted to send a P.O. email to him i swear he didnt get one thing right. first of all its not a burn with a spiraling dragon its a scale on his palm.. seocndly the dragon took moths togrow so instead of making this newborn fly into the sky and then amazingly come down all grown up yeaa what a piece of crap the movie was.. but third thing is about how brom says that rajak is tough and both movie and book and it takes forever for them to kill the rajak in the book but brom and eragon goes and takes them out within 10 minutes after saying that.. totally contradicting thierself.. and the director cut so many places out of it he didnt even introduse the witch .. who was a big character in second book... i mean did the director even read the book i want a god foresaken remake of the move its nothing like the book i hated the movie loved the book... god will thier ever be a smart director or do you consist of bringing idiots to hollywood grrrr. ~Bye!~ ...more This was one of my favorite books in middle school and IT'S SO MUCH BETTER THAN THE MOVIE. Please do not judge it by that mess. I initially had a hard time getting past all of the LOTR similarities to actually enjoy the book (like could the elf he's in love with be named something besides Arwen Arya? The Eragon/Aragorn and Urgal/Uruk stuff is hard enough). But it really does end up being something incredibly unique on its own and is totally worth reading. The worldbuilding is amazing and I can st This was one of my favorite books in middle school and IT'S SO MUCH BETTER THAN THE MOVIE. Please do not judge it by that mess. I initially had a hard time getting past all of the LOTR similarities to actually enjoy the book (like could the elf he's in love with be named something besides Arwen Arya? The Eragon/Aragorn and Urgal/Uruk stuff is hard enough). But it really does end up being something incredibly unique on its own and is totally worth reading. The worldbuilding is amazing and I can still picture some scenes clearly even a decade later! ...more This book spells 'trite' excellently. Unfortunately, that's the best quality it possesses. This idea has been overworked many times before, and, if I may borrow a baking metaphor, overworked dough makes for flat product. Not only does he steal from successful greats, but ignores completely that the reason why they were great would be because of their ingenuity with GOING TO THE SOURCE and making it their own from there. The book takes information from mouths others, throws it together into a cong This book spells 'trite' excellently. Unfortunately, that's the best quality it possesses. This idea has been overworked many times before, and, if I may borrow a baking metaphor, overworked dough makes for flat product. Not only does he steal from successful greats, but ignores completely that the reason why they were great would be because of their ingenuity with GOING TO THE SOURCE and making it their own from there. The book takes information from mouths others, throws it together into a conglomerate mess, tries to serve it with a different label on an old beverage and expects the reader to eat this previously chewed, bland, ill-matched blob of scraps. On top of the clearly traceable sources for ideas (almost all of which come from this century), his characterization is static and mary-sue. Eragon, a name in itself that is clearly not an ingenious solution, trots through the story with no growth or believability. Sure, he may outwardly follow a hero's journey, but there is no internalization of the theme. The physical journey is the hero's journey in this tale, despite the fact that the hero's journey is a representation of spiritual changes. It was a stale story even before it had a sequel. I could probably write a doctorate thesis on why this is not a prime example of a truly successful novel, but this is neither the time nor place for such a rant. In conclusion, I will admit that I did learn something from Paolini: it helps to have parents who own a printing press. ...more One of my former roommates is addicted to Young Adult fantasy books, and got me hooked right along with her. She had read the first two books in this series right when they first came out, and urged me to read them before seeing the movie (which, I later found out, was awful). So I did. Despite the criticism that Paolini's books get, I found I really, really enjoyed Eragon. He pulls a Tolkien and creates his own world, complete with different races, cultures, and languages, which is no easy task One of my former roommates is addicted to Young Adult fantasy books, and got me hooked right along with her. She had read the first two books in this series right when they first came out, and urged me to read them before seeing the movie (which, I later found out, was awful). So I did. Despite the criticism that Paolini's books get, I found I really, really enjoyed Eragon. He pulls a Tolkien and creates his own world, complete with different races, cultures, and languages, which is no easy task. His wording might seem a little trite at times, but it's something I can ultimately get over. I wanted to read Eldest immediately after I finished Eragon -- I'm definitely hooked into the series now. ...more WrensReads Review: You know that saying \u201cI\u2019ll wait till the movie comes out?\u201d Don\u2019t. So I am an aspiring author. Let me shed some light for those who don\u2019t understand this series is a unique series. \u201c Imitation: a method of writing instruction that bas dropped off the map, fallen through the floor, and disappeared from the face of the earth as far as modern education is concerned. And yet imitation is arguably (according to Aristotle, Cicero, and numerous other authorities) the most effective rhetor WrensReads Review: You know that saying \u201cI\u2019ll wait till the movie comes out?\u201d Don\u2019t. So I am an aspiring author. Let me shed some light for those who don\u2019t understand this series is a unique series. \u201c Imitation: a method of writing instruction that bas dropped off the map, fallen through the floor, and disappeared from the face of the earth as far as modern education is concerned. And yet imitation is arguably (according to Aristotle, Cicero, and numerous other authorities) the most effective rhetorical device for learning your licks as a writer. \u201d - William Cane in Fiction Writing: Master Class I first want to say that everyone is entitled to what they believe and think about a certain piece of art (yes, books are considered art in my eyes). You can like a certain piece just because of the story line or you can not like a piece because they have a funny name for the main character. You are entitled. What you are not entitled to is saying that a certain author is a piece or crap and a knock off of a literary masterpiece. Every story, no matter where it came from or how old, is an imitation of other stories. Christopher Paolini talks about how he looks up to famous author J. R. R. Tolkien and his trilogy \u201cLord of the Rings.\u201d So obviously the book is going to have some sort of Middle Earth feel to it because that is what he likes. He has similar species (elves and dwarves) but a lot of stories have those. So are we going to say that every story that has a vampire or werewolf is a knock off of Dracula? Because the species is similar to the original? No. The two series do have similar aspects to them, but they aren\u2019t identical. Have you ever read a book that didn\u2019t sound like another? How about every dystopian/fantasy series out there today for young adults? A young, normal and boring girl is thrown into saving mankind against the somehow twisted and corrupted government. Now tell me you can\u2019t name at least five series that sounds like? The Hunger Games? Divergent? City of Bones? Uglies? Matched? The Summoning? Marked? How about if you changed the young, normal and boring girl into the young, normal and boring boy? The Maze Runner? Harry Potter? Lord of the Rings/The Hobbit? Eragon? Every book is imitating another if you actually sit down and think about it. The real question is: why on earth would you want to do that? Why would you want to get your panties all tied in a knot? Why not just enjoy the book for what it is? Why not live and breathe the world someone created in their mind after reading hundreds of other worlds? Isn\u2019t it amazing in itself that someone could come up with something so magical? This is art! I would like to see one of you come up with a story that has nothing similar to any other story out there (and it actually be a good story). If you do, I will personally send you an apology and say that I was wrong publically. There is so much uniqueness and magic in the Inheritance Cycle. I am currently reading it for the third time because I get so inspired by Paolini\u2019s writing. The map inside the cover is enough for me to get lost in the world that he created at such a young age! That should be enough for anyone to be in awe of this work and this man\u2019s mind! Carvahall is where our hero Eragon starts off in the book. He finds a beautiful blue stone that magically appeared during his hunting trip that turned out to be one of the last dragon eggs out there. He becomes a dragon rider. He has to decide if avenging a family member\u2019s death is more important than saving the corrupt kingdom from a dark rider named Galbatorix. His dragon Saphira is strong headed but usually his voice of reason. She keeps him thinking straight and his head level. I\u2019m not sure why some people say she doesn\u2019t have feelings because it is clear to me that she does. She is a dragon, so her feelings are not as clear to us as they are to other dragons. Half the things she does she does out of emotion anyway, so I\u2019m pretty sure you are just mistaken. Brom is a storyteller from Carvahall with a mysterious past that he won\u2019t completely reveal. He has a lot of stories about dragons and knows a lot about the empire. You get pieces of his back story throughout the series and that alone is an interesting one to know. The cities that are in this story are pretty extraordinary. You have Carvahall, which is a small and dull town where nothing really exciting happens besides when the traders come to town. Then you have Utgard which has a rich history of the riders and past battles. Teirm, one of my personal favorites, which has a history of being attacked by pirates, Urgals and other enemies. They set the whole city up to be ready for war in an amazing way, land or sea. Then there is Dras-Leona, which is a horrible place where people think that the more bone and sinew you give up, the less you\u2019re attached to the mortal world (what in the world?). Not to mention they are heavy in poverty and slavery. Not to mention the cities where dwarves and elves live. And that deadly desert... Then you have the different species. Humans are a big part of the story (especially when Roran becomes a big character later in the series). Dragons, obviously, are a big part of the story. Though we only know of two that live in the first book: Saphira and Galbatorix\u2019s second and forced dragon Shruikan. Then we meet a Shade which is kind of just like a magical being but this one is not someone you want to mess with. A Witch who knows and shows up randomly (very curious character). A Were-Cat which are as clever and sneaky as an actual cat but have some magic in their veins. Then we have Elves and Dwarves who are just as you would expect them to be. Then we have Urgals, which in my opinion are like stupid ogres mix with a lot of hate and ugliness. Not to forget the Ra\u2019zac, which in my opinion are like bugs in cloaks and currently give me nightmares. The witch previously mentioned name is Angela. She read Eragon\u2019s fortune (side note: this made me happy because it proves that Paolini knew exactly where he was going with this story when he started the book) and said it was nigh impossible to see. 1.\tInfinity or long life 2.\tMany choices in his future including great battles, power struggles and countless futures 3.\tA death that will cause him much grief 4.\tHe will leave Alaga\u00ebsia forever, no matter what he chooses 5.\tEpic Romance 6.\tBetrayal from within the family This is a great set up for the rest of the book. You get to watch all these things come undone and how he reacts to them. Knowing your future can be an awful thing, and this book clearly states that. There are battles, miracles, high emotions, secrets, and magic in this book (in this series!). I recommend you read this book. First, knock out all that negativity you harness and go into thinking someone made up this world. Someone imitated parts and made up others and fit a magical story into pages for the rest of the world to read. He was fifteen when he started this book. That is amazing to me because I believe this book is thoroughly laid out. I think it is a great story. You don\u2019t? You are entitled to that opinion. Not everyone is going to like a single piece of art. Don\u2019t go and criticize the author though, because it takes guts and imagination and a determined mind to put together what he did and show the world. WrensReads | Twitter | Instagram ...more Eragon has got to be one of the most tedious books I have ever read. I normally love fantasy (my love for Harry Potter is an indication of this) but Eragon , I could not get through. It was excruciatingly long for such a simple journey. He chances upon all things magical and makes such a big commotion of things. Everything is supposedly mysterious. But it is actually more annoying than mysterious. I love adventure, but his journey was slow paced and took f o r e v e r to get through. The writing Eragon has got to be one of the most tedious books I have ever read. I normally love fantasy (my love for Harry Potter is an indication of this) but Eragon , I could not get through. It was excruciatingly long for such a simple journey. He chances upon all things magical and makes such a big commotion of things. Everything is supposedly mysterious. But it is actually more annoying than mysterious. I love adventure, but his journey was slow paced and took f o r e v e r to get through. The writing was terrible. There were so many details and not enough substance, and often times, I found myself cringing at some of the sentences, wondering what the heck did any of it meant. Most descriptive language and details were completely random. Why do I care for the pots and other utensils that lay in the house? How does that drive the story that is being told? Why do I care about that spot of dust (and much more, random stuff) in the stupid dungeon?! Now, I'm green with envy that Paolini wrote this at such a young age, and published it pretty early too, but jealously and admiration are two different things. And I don't admire his work. Especially since he basically copied his ideas from previous fantasy books. He couldn't bring anything new to the table? And he received critical acclaim from this? Maybe I'll go copy Harry Potter and Twilight, too, and turn it into story about a bunch of teens going to Hogforks (a mix of Hogwarts and Forks) to train to become the best vampires so that they can kill this evil vampire beast called Goldemort, and I'll get critical acclaim and win all these awards too! Yay? Nay. ...more I first read this book in the second year of college, during Christmas break. The first thirty pages or so were a drag, but were also what glued me to the story. It was really slow, only depicting Eragon going around his village, explaining who was who and what was what. Regardless, I remember being impressed at how well Paolini described it all; it is very easy to like a book instantly when you can picture everything so clearly, without getting dizzy by unnecessary detail, and there are very fe I first read this book in the second year of college, during Christmas break. The first thirty pages or so were a drag, but were also what glued me to the story. It was really slow, only depicting Eragon going around his village, explaining who was who and what was what. Regardless, I remember being impressed at how well Paolini described it all; it is very easy to like a book instantly when you can picture everything so clearly, without getting dizzy by unnecessary detail, and there are very few authors out there that can do it, to my experience. Even though I felt ok reading all this slow start, I felt somewhat afraid that the whole book would be like this; however, at 2011 this series was already tremendously famous, so I knew there couldn't be such hype about a book that wasn't really good, thus I persevered for a couple hours. It was worth it. Eragon is a great story. Despite its lack of originality, Eragon 's plot is still engaging enough for those willing to overlook some things here and there. The themes of this book are classics that don't ever fail to attract those still innocent enough to believe in humanity's goodness: the unfailing bonds of friendship, loyalty and love; feelings that anyone could relate to and be captivated by. More specifically about the characters, I found them surprisingly well developed. Eragon, initially, is just a common farm boy who lives with his uncle and cousin Roran. They are very poor, so they work hard to survive every harsh winter. Eragon was abandoned by his mother to the cares of his uncle yet as a baby, so he is more of a son to him; there is no special treatment to Roran nor anything, both are treated with respect and love and both consider each other as brothers. This is what makes the events that come further in the story be twice as painful. Due to his poverty, there's not much that Eragon can do with the little free time that he has but sit around at the village's pub and listen to people talking and telling stories. This way he meets Brom, an old man who enjoys telling stories about ancient times when dragons flew freely on the skies mounted by their riders. Soon enough, Eragon finds in Brom a true friend and teacher, as he finds himself under a turmoil of events that set his life upside down, being the most intriguing of them the fact that he is, all of a sudden, the first dragon rider alive in centuries (not considering the evil King Galatorix). Saphira, his dragon, is one of my favorite characters. It's hilarious how Paolini innovates by creating this new way of communication by which dragons and dragon riders can talk to each other by telepathy, so Saphire actually has a voice and particular reactions to events. Actually, in most cases she acts as Eragon's bigger sister, per say, teaching him the perils of the world (apparently, dragons have a shared ancient memory or something, through which they can remember facts happened way before they were born and other kinds of information). I was completely absorbed by this story mostly because it is filled with suspense, loads of very well explained background, intricate magic system and, of course, action. I would strongly recommend it to virtually anyone (maybe to children above 8 years old?); there is no much violence and even when there is, it's common magic and sword fighting display, not anything gory at all. Also, it might be inspirational to young people to read it and get acquainted to the quality of Paolini's first work, since he wrote it being little more than 15 years old. Interesting quotes that I didn't include in the review: Books are my friends, my companions. They make me laugh and cry and find meaning in life. Keep in mind that many people have died for their beliefs; it's actually quite common. The real courage is in living and suffering for what you believe. The greatest enemy is one that has nothing to lose. ...more I tried writing a novel when I was fifteen, too; but the difference between me and Paolini is I had the decency to chuck it when I realized how terrible it was. I\u2019m not going to list a host of authours he \u2018borrowed\u2019 from \u2014 many people just have different opinions where exactly he borrowed from so I don\u2019t want to get into it. It\u2019s just\u2026 I think he ha d potential; descriptively, there were some parts of Eragon that were very well-written. But for the rest, he tried too hard and he tried too early. I tried writing a novel when I was fifteen, too; but the difference between me and Paolini is I had the decency to chuck it when I realized how terrible it was. I\u2019m not going to list a host of authours he \u2018borrowed\u2019 from \u2014 many people just have different opinions where exactly he borrowed from so I don\u2019t want to get into it. It\u2019s just\u2026 I think he ha d potential; descriptively, there were some parts of Eragon that were very well-written. But for the rest, he tried too hard and he tried too early. He should have waited until he developed his own writing voice, instead of rushing into publishing his first work. Now\u2026 all that potential just went down the toilet because I listen to and I read his interviews and his arrogance is sickening. He\u2019s not going to get any better because he doesn\u2019t think there\u2019s room for improvement, and why should he? He hasn\u2019t even finished his trilogy when it was made into a movie and to top it off he didn\u2019t go to his publisher, his publisher went to him . How many starving authours out there dream of being found , of not having to submit to one publisher after another, and of not having to read their rejection letters? I do respect him for buckling down and finishing his story \u2014 from writing to revising to editing \u2014 because I know from first-hand experience how hard it is\u2026 but\u2026 this shouldn\u2019t have been published. It just shouldn\u2019t have been. ...more Christopher wrote this book when he was fifteen years old. He did very well. I love the relationship between Eragon and Saphira. I could see there are true affections between the boy and dragon. I have seen Eragon film long time ago, I can't remember what all of the casts look like but I can remember a bit what happened. The movie of Eragon and the book are very different. I love the book! I really didn't like a film. It is pointless! Alhamdulillah. First read: 2007 (5 stars) Re-read: 2017 (3 stars) When I first read Eragon I LOVED it, but it wasn't as good this time around! I suppose 10 years makes a difference! In 2002 I was 16 and a sophomore in high school. I was the Manhattan finalist for a storytelling festival. I was writing, mostly poetry. The year before I had been named runner up in a contest held by the Poetry Society of America and had the poem I entered read on the radio. I used to feel pretty good about those accomplishments until I read Christopher Paolini's bio on his first book. In 2002 Christopher Paolini was 15 and a high school graduate. So, of course, the next obvious step was to writ In 2002 I was 16 and a sophomore in high school. I was the Manhattan finalist for a storytelling festival. I was writing, mostly poetry. The year before I had been named runner up in a contest held by the Poetry Society of America and had the poem I entered read on the radio. I used to feel pretty good about those accomplishments until I read Christopher Paolini's bio on his first book. In 2002 Christopher Paolini was 15 and a high school graduate. So, of course, the next obvious step was to write a novel. Which is why readers now have Eragon, the latest in a long line of dragon-centric fantasies (I just made that term up). This novel is the first in the Inheritance Trilogy (Eldest is already out and Brisingr is due for release soon). It was also made into a movie in 2006 that I enjoyed quite a bit even before I found its excellent tagline: \"You are stronger than you realize. Wiser than you know. What was once your life is now your legend.\" The reason I mention the movie at all is because this is one of the only books I can think of where I saw the movie adaptation before I read the book. I really liked both and found it interesting to be motivated to read a book because of the movie. Before I review the book I just want to get this out of my system: Eragon was really good and I enjoyed it, but it did at times sound like it was written by a fifteen-year-old. I'm not saying that to be petty or because of sour grapes--I just really think that's the case. In addition to mentioning his age, Paolini's back flap bio mentions that he has an abiding love of fantasy that subsequently motivated him to write his own fantasy novel. For that reason, Eragon owes an obvious debt to some of the fantasy big shots. Like Tamora Pierce's books (and Gail Carson Levine's), this one has a medieval-esque setting. The most obvious similarities that I noticed lie between this book and Ursula K. Le Guin's A Wizard of Earthsea and J. R. R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings books (and The Hobbit too). Obviously, then, if you like those books you will like Eragon. At the same time, though, these similarities did leave me wishing there were more \"acceptable\" ways to write a fantasy setting. Maybe that's me. More than an event book where events are central to the plot and the story moves from event to event, this is a journey book. Stuff happens, but most of the novel is spent traveling. In a sense, the entire book is a journey to the end which I assume leads to more revelations which will be found in the second book in the trilogy. The book's journey starts with its title character, Eragon, a fifteen-year-old youth living in a rural town in the land of Alagaesia. Once a place of glory where dragons and their riders kept peace across the country, the Empire is now ruled by a cruel king called Galbatorix. Such concerns are far from Eragon's daily concerns though. Living with his uncle and cousin, Eragon's days are spent helping his family farm their land and prepare for winter. All of that changes when Eragon returns from a hunting trip with a mysterious stone. Soon enough, he realizes the stone is actually an egg. A dragon egg. The presence of this new dragon will not only change the course of Eragon's life but also the path of the entire Empire. Thus Eragon is set on a new path with only his dragon, an old storyteller and a mysterious sword to help him find his way. And that, really, is what this book is about: Eragon finding his way as he learns what being a Rider, and dare I say being a hero, really means. One of the subtler things I liked about the writing is that when Paolini begins this story, his protagonist is clearly a boy even if by Alagaesian standards he's only a year from manhood. By the end of the novel, though, Eragon is a man. The writing changes subtly to reflect this important change from beginning to end. Eragon is literally finding his way too--the novel features a lot of long, perilous journeys and long, dangerous battles. All of which were good to read but did leave me burnt out when I finally made my way to the end of my paperback copy (on page 497). Sometimes it's just surprising how long it can take to read a long book. For fear of providing accidental spoilers, that's really all I have to say. Once I got over the fact that I did not graduate high school at fifteen or write a novel, the book was not at all depressing. Eragon features some great characters (Brom to name one) and some of the scariest villains seen in recent fantasies. I have high hopes for the next installment in the trilogy once I get my hands on it. ...more I give up. Today is November 10, and I've read a grand total of 26 pages since August. I just don't like it. The writing itself isn't quite up to the standard I would expect, but I know Paolini was a teen when he wrote it. I'm not excusing the choppiness based on his age because I know some teen authors who are simply angelic with their writing, but that kind of polish comes with experience. Some books manage to be epic fantasies where interesting things actually happen. Also, each chapter ends as E I give up. Today is November 10, and I've read a grand total of 26 pages since August. I just don't like it. The writing itself isn't quite up to the standard I would expect, but I know Paolini was a teen when he wrote it. I'm not excusing the choppiness based on his age because I know some teen authors who are simply angelic with their writing, but that kind of polish comes with experience. Some books manage to be epic fantasies where interesting things actually happen. Also, each chapter ends as Eragon goes to sleep or is knocked out. Also, I have issues with the name Eragon. To explain why, let me tell you about the book I'm going to write about the last unicorn rider. Her name is Vnicorn. And the book I'm going to write about the last griffon rider, called Hriffon. And the book I'll write about the last chimera rides, called Dhimera. Get my point? Names and technique aside, I'm also not interested in the story, the plot of the whole thing. It's been done so many times before I know exactly how it's going to end. And while I do re-read books for the enjoyment, this is not the kind of book I would want to re-read. I'm just not invested. I don't give two tosses about Gary Stu Eragon, Wise Man Brom, and Animal Sidekick Saphira. I was endeavouring to finish this book, but I've got other books waiting for me, and I don't feel right wasting my time on this when aspiring authors who deserve a chance are waiting for me to critique their work. I'm sorry, maybe it's the concept of the whole 'the last whatever' that gets to me. The inherent sadness and sympathy we're supposed to have over the last of the whatevers doesn't work if it can't be enjoyed. Let me read a book where there's a FIRST of something. Let's see how they cope with no advice and no one to guide them, discovering all this tosh for themselves. That'd be an interesting book. (for the record, I can think of two off the top of my head: Kiersten White's Paranormalcy and Jeaniene Frost's Halfway to the Grave . My darling Anila reminded me of How to Train Your Dragon . Let's turn this into a game. Any other suggestions of books about the first of something amazing and cool rather than the last ? ...more Eragon = Star Wars From complaintlab.blogspot.com The book opens with Princess Arya/Princess Leia smuggling a dragon egg/message or Death Star plans from the evil kingdom/Empire. She manages to hide it successfully but is captured by Ozzy Osbourne/Durza/Darth Vader and interrogated about it\u2019s location. A simple orphan farm boy named Eragon/Luke acquires the egg/message/plans but doesn\u2019t really know what to do with it. One day/night he returns home to find his uncle and aunt murdered by ra\u2019zak/stor Eragon = Star Wars From complaintlab.blogspot.com The book opens with Princess Arya/Princess Leia smuggling a dragon egg/message or Death Star plans from the evil kingdom/Empire. She manages to hide it successfully but is captured by Ozzy Osbourne/Durza/Darth Vader and interrogated about it\u2019s location. A simple orphan farm boy named Eragon/Luke acquires the egg/message/plans but doesn\u2019t really know what to do with it. One day/night he returns home to find his uncle and aunt murdered by ra\u2019zak/storm troopers who were trying to recover the egg/plans. With his surrogate parental figure(s) dead he decides to leave home forever to ultimately get revenge. He journeys with an old man named Brom/Obi-Wan who actually knows a thing or two about the dragon/message. (Yes, the egg is now a dragon.) Since he was a former Dragon Rider/Jedi Knight he begins to teach Eragon/Luke how to use a sword/lightsaber and how to master magic/the force. While on their journey, the evil kingdom/Empire draws them to their fortress/Death Star. Once there, they are able to rescue the princess but Brom/Obi-Wan ends up being killed by Durza/Vader. After escaping the fortress/Death Star they meet up with Murtagh/Han Solo who says he can take them to the hideout of the Varden/Rebel resistance movement. (O.K. so this is a chronological discrepancy with the two events occurring at opposite ends of their respective movies but it still doesn\u2019t change the fact that it\u2019s the same crap.) The ever-present evil kingdom/Empire tracks them to the hideout and initializes an attack to wipe out the entire resistance movement. At the climax of the battle is an aerial confrontation between Eragon/Luke with his dragon/X-wing and Durza/Vader with his dragon/Tie bomber. (Or was it a Tie fighter?) Durza/Vader is defeated and Eragon/Luke blows up the fortress/Death Star. ...more It's been a few years since I read Eragon, and someday I mean to pick it up again and reread it so I can move on to Eldest. Unfortunately, I remember very little of the book. When I picked up Eldest and read the introduction where Paolini explains what happened in Eragon, I thought, \"Really? I don't remember any of that.\" It was that forgettable. So I can't give much information about plot, characters, or anything very detailed. What I do remember are my reactions when reading the book. My first It's been a few years since I read Eragon, and someday I mean to pick it up again and reread it so I can move on to Eldest. Unfortunately, I remember very little of the book. When I picked up Eldest and read the introduction where Paolini explains what happened in Eragon, I thought, \"Really? I don't remember any of that.\" It was that forgettable. So I can't give much information about plot, characters, or anything very detailed. What I do remember are my reactions when reading the book. My first thoughts were, \"Wow. I can write better than this. Maybe there is hope for me to be published some day.\" Later thoughts were more like, \"That was inconsistent and badly done.\" And when I finished the book and finally put it down, my final thought was, \"Well, that wasn't very good.\" Eragon just isn't a well written book. The good points of Eragon: it gets kids to read. Hopefully they'll move on to the Chronicles of Narnia, Lord of the Rings, or other classics in the fantasy genre. Still, I wouldn't recommend it. There are far better young adult fantasy novels out there. ...more Someone needs to grab this cub and shake him several times and tell him THAT HE IS NOT TOLKIEN! His prose is not delicious and artistic. It's irritating. It makes you sit on the toilet while reading shouting out the worse lines from the book and then you just want to bang your head against the wall as you realize this cub is making millions while you are STILL struggling to perfect the same stories since 1999 and beyond! It makes me feel rather bitter. The worse thing is this book is such a rip off Someone needs to grab this cub and shake him several times and tell him THAT HE IS NOT TOLKIEN! His prose is not delicious and artistic. It's irritating. It makes you sit on the toilet while reading shouting out the worse lines from the book and then you just want to bang your head against the wall as you realize this cub is making millions while you are STILL struggling to perfect the same stories since 1999 and beyond! It makes me feel rather bitter. The worse thing is this book is such a rip off of Dragonriders, Lord of the Rings and of course, Star Wars. I wrote all manners of things when I was 15, many of these things were inspired by other books. A werewolf story I'm working on was inspired by Neil Gaiman. But what I will do is work hard for AGES making sure it doesn't seem plagiarized anymore. I will work hard until the book is original, or as original as I can make it. At least J K Rowling managed to take the same ingredients of wizards, witches, dragons and such and add her own special spices to the stew. Paolini does not do this. He proudly uses every cliche he can use and drools over his ridiculous prose. Were he my son, rather than publish his book, I would have made him rewrite it until he gets it right and I would have told him NOT TO USE SUCH RIDICULOUS METAPHORS AND SIMILES! ...more Chris Paolini not only wrote an amazing book but his personal story of getting published is inspiring. He carried around his manuscript for four years and kept working on it and adding to it. When other boys his age were playing video games he was immersed in his world. Fabulous book! I\u2019m very happy I\u2019ve finally read Eragon! It\u2019s been a book that I\u2019ve been curious to read for a long time. Because of it\u2019s comparisons with Tolkien\u2019s Lord of the Rings (which I very much love!) I\u2019ve wondered if Eragon would be another great fantasy epic or a terrible rip-off. I\u2019m not entirely sure that it is either. But I did enjoy the book, and would recommend it to others! I\u2019ve wavered between giving this three or four stars. I would like to give it three and half, but as I can\u2019t, I\u2019ll go with t I\u2019m very happy I\u2019ve finally read Eragon! It\u2019s been a book that I\u2019ve been curious to read for a long time. Because of it\u2019s comparisons with Tolkien\u2019s Lord of the Rings (which I very much love!) I\u2019ve wondered if Eragon would be another great fantasy epic or a terrible rip-off. I\u2019m not entirely sure that it is either. But I did enjoy the book, and would recommend it to others! I\u2019ve wavered between giving this three or four stars. I would like to give it three and half, but as I can\u2019t, I\u2019ll go with three for now. I feel it\u2019s a good, solid, well thought out story. I felt that I trusted Paolini to have thought through all of the choices a character had available, and that he\u2019d made sure the characters were making the correct choices for them at that moment in time (and that if not, that were the point). I thought there was good character arc and good build to the story. I liked the characters a lot, but I\u2019m not sure I totally loved them or felt completely invested. It took me a while to understand Saphira\u2019s personality, but once I did I liked her a lot, and the fact that she reminded me greatly of cats was a huge plus! It is a fantasy epic like LOTR, but it focuses of fewer characters, which I think hindered the story (for me) a little, because I didn\u2019t feel a huge connection with the characters right from the beginning. But, as I said, I did like them all, and was curious for the outcomes and hopeful that the end would be happy. All in all it was an enjoyable and interesting read, and Paolini raises some good, interesting moral questions. And while a few times I felt certain parts were a bit lengthy, and sometimes a bit confusing, overall the writing style fit the story very well, and was pretty clear. Regarding the \u201crip-off-ness\u201d of the book: Having dabbled in writing and other creative works myself I find that I am very defensive for both Paolini and Tolkien. While I feel that plagiarism is a horrible injustice, I also feel that accusing someone of it where it has not occurred is similarly sad. Therefore, I wanted to be very fair in my analysis (which is, obviously, simply that \u2013 my analysis form reading the book without any other insights). So, here are my thoughts on the matter. I don\u2019t think it can be denied that Paolini\u2019s races in Eragon are derived from Tolkien\u2019s races. Paolini\u2019s descriptions of elves and dwarves are incredibly similar to Tolkien\u2019s \u2013 even the Urgals in Eragon are reminiscent of Urk-Hei (sp?). Whether these similarities are due to \u201cthievery\u201d or simply from \u201cinspiration\u201d and the understanding of elves and dwarves that Paolini grew up with, I, of course, cannot say. But I would like to think it the latter. Also, while there are other LOTR similarities in regard to setting, style, and arc, I don\u2019t think one can say that these were stolen, because such similarities will occur when dealing with good and evil, an ancient era, and fantasy elements. Aside from these things, I cannot recall much else that was blatantly related to LOTR. The character of Eragon appears original, as does his journey, and the dragon as a character and plot point appears unique as well. Of course, there is the wise-old sage and teacher, but this occurs time and time again anyway. (One of my favorite parts, actually, is the acknowledgements section of the newer edition of the book.) So, I did enjoy the book very much, and am looking forward to reading the next. (I enjoyed the book much better than the movie, if that helps.) And yes, I would recommend Eragon to fans of the Epic Fantasy. *** Sorry, Eragon. Just wanted to let it be known that the reason this book has been on the \"reading\" shelf for a while is that (well, A, it's very long) but because I started to read Inkheart because I thought the movie would be coming out soon. So, my reading time was put to Inkheart. However, now I've more time to read Inkheart, but since I already know the ending of Eragon, and I don't know the ending of Inkheart, my focus will probably still be on Inkheart for the timebeing as it will be easier to pick Eragon back up and know where things were left off. Well, that's my hope anyway *** I started this a few days ago and am very curious to see what the book is like! I've heard so much about it. I wasn't totally impressed by the movie, but so far it seems that there was a lot of detail that was left out of the movie that is in the book. Anyway, I'm glad to finally be reading it! ...more The rating of zero stars is on purpose. This is one of the worst books I have read in a long time. If you search hard, between the covers of this book you may find an original idea. He ripped off ideas from Anne McCaffery, Jane Yolen, Tolkien, etc. He just had the happy coincidence of writing his book McCaffery and Yolen have faded into obscurity. I have never seen a book published with so many editorial errors. He had poor sentence structure. He used so many words in the wrong context that it was The rating of zero stars is on purpose. This is one of the worst books I have read in a long time. If you search hard, between the covers of this book you may find an original idea. He ripped off ideas from Anne McCaffery, Jane Yolen, Tolkien, etc. He just had the happy coincidence of writing his book McCaffery and Yolen have faded into obscurity. I have never seen a book published with so many editorial errors. He had poor sentence structure. He used so many words in the wrong context that it was obvious he wrote it with a thesaurus in hand so he could insert synonyms without full knowledge of their connotations. His characters changed to fit the situation, especially his main character. He did not know how to depict the feelings and motives of his characters, so he had to go to great lengths to inform as to what they were thinking. His book was only held together by its plot, and its plot only survived if there was a fight every chapter. Well, I could go on like this for forever, but I should say a few positive words as well. He started writing this book when he was in high school. From that perspective, I have to say it is a great achievement. I certainly never wrote a bestseller in high school. However, his publishers, I think are regretting it. The second book was very different. It was a more adult style, he had a better idea of how his characters would react to situations, and it was much less action-oriented. Unfortunately, it was also boring. How often have you heard someone get excited about Eldest? I think the mistake here is not Paolini's. I think it was his publishers. They should have waited until he was finished with all three books and then edited them for consistent writing style. Or even better, they should have kept him to a single book and then let him write his trilogy after he had matured as a writer. There is a bigger problem highlighted here: bestsellers are not made by a good book. Bestsellers are made by a publicity campaign. If Eragon had been put on the shelf the same as every other kid's fantasy, I'm not sure it would have received any more notice than the others. It probably would have been better for the publishers, the movie-makers, and - most of all - a young man who shouldn't have to put up with the pressure of having to write the third book in a bestselling trilogy that is going to have at least one less purchaser. I'm going to save my money and check it out of the library. ...more", "Title": "Eragon"},
