{"Comments": "Thank you, Steve. You were wrong all those years ago when you said you weren't very good at writing about love and intimacy. The love story here is full of honesty and tenderness. When I got to the last couple of pages, I was crying so hard I couldn't read. <+++>11/22/63</+++> is a supernatural, quasi-historical, philosophical, science-fiction love story. If you're avoiding it because you think <---A>Stephen King</---A> only writes horror, please reconsider. There's no horror here, aside from a couple of mild gross-out Thank you, Steve. You were wrong all those years ago when you said you weren't very good at writing about love and intimacy. The love story here is full of honesty and tenderness. When I got to the last couple of pages, I was crying so hard I couldn't read. <+++>11/22/63</+++> is a supernatural, quasi-historical, philosophical, science-fiction love story. If you're avoiding it because you think Stephen King only writes horror, please reconsider. There's no horror here, aside from a couple of mild gross-out scenes. I know my experience would have been cheapened by knowing too much beforehand, so I'm not going to tell you what it's about in the style of a traditional book review. Be it on someone else's head to spoil your fun. So why should you read it? *There is DANCING! *There is time travel -- Stephen King-style, with some original twists on the old device. *There is a special treat for fans of It , King's novel about Pennywise the Clown. *There is a charming (<---B>yet brutally honest</---B>) portrayal of American life in the late 50s and early 60s. *There is DANCING! *There is pie-throwing! *There is sweet romance without sappiness. *There is poundcake! *There is derring-do! (With poundcake for afters.) *There is insight into Lee Harvey Oswald and his associates, and their activities prior to 11/22/63. *There is DANCING! *There is a subtle but amazing use of \"the past\" as a character with an agenda of its own. *There is snappy dialogue laced with humor.<---F> *There is high school theater</---F>. *And there is DANCING! Because dancing is life . Thanks again, Steve. There's always room for you on my dance card. ...more Look at the amount of pages in this book. Look at the amount of pages in Under The Dome. Check the date this book is published. Check the date Under The Dome was published. *eyetwitch* Real. Utterly compelling. King outlines a clear end goal, and the novel benefits enormously as the journey to that destination unfolds. A constant suspense and wonder as the reader considers when- and how- we'll get to that fateful titular date, not to mention what will happen when we get there, and once we leave i Look at the amount of pages in this book. Look at the amount of pages in Under The Dome. Check the date this book is published. Check the date Under The Dome was published. *eyetwitch* Real. Utterly compelling. King outlines a clear end goal, and the novel benefits enormously as the journey to that destination unfolds. A constant suspense and wonder as the reader considers when- and how- we'll get to that fateful titular date, not to mention what will happen when we get there, and once we leave it behind. Part drama,<---M> part historical-fiction</---M>, part romance. King has stated the book's idea came to him in 1971, yet at the time didn't have enough confidence in his skill or ability to properly pull something like this off. Well, the wait was worth it. Truly masterful. ...more Go ahead, book snobs. Proclaim haughtily that Stephen King is not Literature. I shall retort with a Pratchett quote, \"Susan hated Literature. She'd much prefer to read a good book.\" And nobody argues with Sir Terry. (Since 'a picture is worth a thousand words', the above is a three-thousand-words summary of this book. Impressive, no? And also - dancing is life.) As you probably guessed from the not-too-spoiler-sensitive title , 11/22/63 is a book about time travel. My love for it is an exception Go ahead, book snobs. Proclaim haughtily that Stephen King is not Literature. I shall retort with a Pratchett quote, \"Susan hated Literature. She'd much prefer to read a good book.\" And nobody argues with Sir Terry. (Since 'a picture is worth a thousand words', the above is a three-thousand-words summary of this book. Impressive, no? And also - dancing is life.) As you probably guessed from the not-too-spoiler-sensitive title , 11/22/63 is a book about time travel. My love for it is an exception rather than a rule - you see, I am not usually a fan of the Grandfather paradox. Speaking of which: \u201cYeah, but what if you went back and killed your own grandfather?\" He stared at me, baffled. \"Why the fuck would you do that?\u201d As the title proceeds to shamelessly tells us, the book deals with the assassination of <---C>John F. Kennedy</---C> (and if the title fails to convey the message, then hopefully you - like yours truly - have Google-pedia'd it. Hey, don't judge, I was born in Eastern Europe). Anyway, it's another of Stephen King's 'what if?' situations. What if you could go through a 'rabbit-hole' to the past? Would you try to change history for the better, would you try to right the wrongs? Well, who wouldn't ??? And so Jake Epping, an English teacher, sets out to spend half a decade in the past to prevent the assassination of JFK (and to figure out whether Lee Harvey Oswald was indeed the lone gunman that day, despite all the conspiracy theories). \"As I flipped to the back, I kept seeing that double take. And the grin. A sense of humor; a sense of the absurd. The man in the sixth-floor window of the Book Depository had neither. Oswald had proved it time and again, and such a man had no business changing history.\" ** What if their lives had never intersected?** \u201cEven people capable of living in the past don't really know what the future holds.\u201d The question is - what would have happened had JFK survived the assassination that day in Dallas? Would we still have Vietnam War, race riots, and Martin Luther King's death? Could the lives of many innocent people be spared? Could JFK lead the country into a better future? Jake believes so. But what if the past resists the change? What is the price of changing the past? \"The past is obdurate for the same reason a turtle\u2019s shell is obdurate: because the living flesh inside is tender and defenseless.\" This book again dispels the long-believed but mistaken axiom that Stephen King is a \"horror writer\" - of a spook and startle variety. No, in the traditional sense he is not. He knows that the true monsters are those that live inside every one of us (and, ahem , occasionally in Derry, Maine). He has created his own brand of psychological suspense - with the brilliant and scary insight into the minds of average everyday people ( who all have some darkness inside them and a skeleton or two in the closet - sometimes quite literally ) superimposed onto the masterful description of small towns themselves ( eerily resembling sentient living creatures, determined to hold on to their dark secrets ). (*) And we get plenty of these in this book, as Jake's quest to prevent that fateful shot in November in Dallas takes him along the way to the small towns of Derry, Maine and Jodie, Texas. * I have an irrational fear of living in a small town, thanks to Stephen King. What if it turns out to be another Derry or Castle Rock?! *shudder* (By the way, this trip to the past gives plenty of deeeeee-licious 'Easter Eggs' to King's Constant Readers. We see little echoes from Pennywise the Clown era in Derry, meet our favorite 1958 Plymouth Fury ( Hellllloooo there, Christine! ), and even get a nod to A Wizard and Glass with Takuro Spirit). \u201cOn that gray street, with the smell of industrial smokes in the air and the afternoon bleeding away to evening, downtown Derry looked only marginally more charming than a dead hooker in a church pew.\u201d Derry of 1958 (right after the terrifying events of IT ) is particularly repulsive and sinister. It's a small wonder Jake is able to continue his quest after starting in such an ominous place. But even there King manages to include some unexpected beauty - just remember Richie and Bevvy dancing. And the reverse applies to the idyllic town of Jodie in which Jake is finally able to feel that he actually LIVES in the past. Deep down under the beauty and quaintness lies the ugly little reality. And the same remains true for the Land of Ago , the glorious past of absent airport security, no cholesterol warnings, and everyone happily puffing their way to lung cancers. The 1950s-60s are described with sweetness and nostalgia, but King never hesitates to bluntly remind the reader that the past has teeth and it's not afraid to bite. King is an excellent writer and an amazing storyteller. His writing is effortless and natural, the characterization is apt and memorable, and the dialogue superb and real-sounding. I truly felt for Jake during each step of his journey. I loved how Oswald was described as not a villain or a nutcase but a flawed broken little man who stumbled into the middle of events that changed history. The other characters - Sadie, Deke, Ellie, Frank Dunning - were so well-written that I could feel them come to life (which actually can be a scary statement when the world of sai King is concerned). The story, despite its sizable length, was flowing along and never lost my attention. And his slow build-up of the sense of suspense and doom - think The Yellow Card Man (*) and jimla and the 'harmonizing past' - was just enough to keep me on the edge of my seat throughout the book. ------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- Pardon me for using this moth-eaten cliche, but Stephen King is like good wine - his writing gets better and better as he ages. Some may consider The Stand his masterpiece (to his dismay - who wants to think he's already reached the peak of his writing career three decades ago???), but I think this book may be it. \"Is there any phrase more ominous than you need to see exactly what you\u2019ve done? I couldn\u2019t think of one offhand.\" ----------------------------- 5 stars without hesitation for this excellent impossible-to-put-down book. Sai King, I will continue to be your Constant Reader for hopefully many more years to come, Capital-L Literature or not. \"If there is love, smallpox scars are as pretty as dimples.\" ...more \u201cWe never know which lives we influence, or when, or why.\u201d I still fail to understand why Stephen King isn't considered a writer of \"respected literature\". Because he writes sci-fi and horror? Because his books are so compelling, entertaining and popular? For me, King does what very few authors manage - he turns fast-paced genre fiction into well-written, thought-provoking literature. And 11/22/63 is no exception. I've been putting this book off for the last few years; partly because it's an 80 \u201cWe never know which lives we influence, or when, or why.\u201d I still fail to understand why Stephen King isn't considered a writer of \"respected literature\". Because he writes sci-fi and horror? Because his books are so compelling, entertaining and popular? For me, King does what very few authors manage - he turns fast-paced genre fiction into well-written, thought-provoking literature. And 11/22/63 is no exception. I've been putting this book off for the last few years; partly because it's an 800+ page giant, and partly because I studied the hell out of Kennedy and 1950s/60s America back in high school. But I find myself once again in that situation where I read a book I always meant to read and mentally kick myself for not giving in sooner. This book is fantastic. Some of its critics don't like the crossover of many genres, claiming it \"wanders from genre to genre\" . However, I loved how this book was many things. It's an extremely well-researched piece of historical fiction; it's a fascinating look at time travel science fiction (is it possible to change the past? What is the cost of doing so?); it's a small town thriller; and it's a love story. King has this strange way of turning the most fantastical plots into stories about people who feel very real. He writes detailed and honest character portraits, so that these characters become so vivid and realistic, likable and flawed, that we so easily believe in everything that happens to them. If you don't already know, this book is about a man called Jake Epping who - through his friend, Al - discovers a portal that takes him to 1958, where he takes over Al's obsessive mission to prevent the Kennedy assassination. He establishes a new life in the past, in a world filled with big American cars, rock'n'roll, and shameless racism, sexism and homophobia. The amount of research King did is evident. He paints an intricate portrait of this time - simultaneously portraying an exciting, dreamy era full of different fashions, music, and the best root beer ever for 10 cents... and showing the darker side: segregation and the two doors and three signs - \"Men\" on one door, \"Women\" on the other door, and \"Colored\" leading to a plank of wood over a small stream. He makes this era seem like a bright, amazing, creepy nightmare. I thoroughly enjoyed it. Unlike some of King's other works, the 800 pages didn't feel like too much to me and they just seemed to fly by. So glad I finally read it. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr ...more Hi, my name is Jake Epping and I\u2019m a dull high school English teacher who has decided to go back in time to prevent JFK from being assassinated. I\u2019ve decided to do this primarily because a fat man who serves me 53 year-old cheeseburgers (with whom I share only a vague casual acquaintance) has told me that I should. There is no other real reason for me to being doing this. There really isn\u2019t. Once I\u2019m there, I will also risk my life to save a bunch of other people that I barely know because I wan Hi, my name is Jake Epping and I\u2019m a dull high school English teacher who has decided to go back in time to prevent JFK from being assassinated. I\u2019ve decided to do this primarily because a fat man who serves me 53 year-old cheeseburgers (with whom I share only a vague casual acquaintance) has told me that I should. There is no other real reason for me to being doing this. There really isn\u2019t. Once I\u2019m there, I will also risk my life to save a bunch of other people that I barely know because I want to demonstrate how amazingly selfless I am. It is important to me that I am well-liked. I will fuck up several times, but that is no problem because I have no life and therefore I will simply go back in time again and repeat the experience until I get things right. At some point along the way, I will fall in love with an 80 year-old woman. But don\u2019t worry!\u2014when I go back in time, she\u2019s 27. So that\u2019s no problem, either. Anyway, once I (view spoiler) [save JFK and am thanked with a lifetime supply of beer, I will finally return to the present. But oh no!\u2014saving JFK has caused massive earthquakes (WHAAA???) and now the entire country is a complete nuclear wasteland!! And yet even though there is no plausible reason whatsoever for this to be the case (hide spoiler) ] , I will nonetheless accept it as true and simply go back a-fucking-GAIN just to undo what I spent 800 pages doing. And that is my story. Except actually it isn\u2019t. Now that I\u2019ve returned more or less permanently to the back-to-normal present, I have decided to hunt down my former lover like the psychopath that I am and dance with her one last time. In my head, it\u2019s oh-so-sweet and will bring a tear to your eye. But in your sane reality, it will probably have the effect of making you want to vomit\u2014 cuz she\u2019s EIGHTY . It\u2019s like that scene in Ghost where Sam uses Oda Mae\u2019s body to put the moves on Molly. We get that it\u2019s Patrick Swayze in spirit , but somehow we can\u2019t let go of the knowledge that it\u2019s actually Whoopi Goldberg who\u2019s feeling up Demi Moore. ...more I'll be honest here. It's really rare that I get through a book over 500 pages, let alone 700 (Nook pages). It's also true that I have never read a single thing from Mr. King until now. Why? I'm not sure. Maybe his books intimidated me, because when I was younger everyone was always talking to me about how his books were so long, and blah blah. Anyway, I am proud to say that 11/22/63 was my first book read by Stephen King. I hear it's so much different than his other work, but I also haven't met I'll be honest here. It's really rare that I get through a book over 500 pages, let alone 700 (Nook pages). It's also true that I have never read a single thing from Mr. King until now. Why? I'm not sure. Maybe his books intimidated me, because when I was younger everyone was always talking to me about how his books were so long, and blah blah. Anyway, I am proud to say that 11/22/63 was my first book read by Stephen King. I hear it's so much different than his other work, but I also haven't met a single person that didn't love it. I read this book because everybody and their brother was recommending it to me as a \"must read\". I'm also not a big historical fiction fan, and didn't know how much I would enjoy reading about 20 years before my birth. I had nothing to worry about. Here is a book that you never want to end, yet you do want it to end, because you need to know what is going to happen. King introduces us to a man named Jake who insists that he is not emotionless despite the fact that he doesn't cry often. I can relate to him right off the bat. Not a big crier, but I definitely feel emotions on a huge level. Jake is sent back to 1963 with a plan made up by a guy named Al who owns a local diner, and has the \"rabbit hole\" which is how they travel back in time. At first his mission is just to stop Lee Harvey Oswald from assassinating JFK, but then little things pop up here and there making him consider a few new things that need to be changed. I'm not going into any more detail than that, because I don't want to give away one single thing in this brilliant novel. Fans of his story \"It\" may be excited to know he revisits the town of Derry, Maine, where \"It\" was located. The excitement and suspense in this book were astonishing. I held my breath in anticipation of certain things Jake had to do, and then some twist would come out of left field, and I would continue reading in awe. There were also several sighs of relief and a couple of cute moments involving Jake's romance that just made me say \"aww\". I do feel like there were a rough 100ish pages that dragged on somewhere in the middle, and the book may have benefited by taking out a few things, but obviously I'm no expert. That's just my opinion. Again, this may have also been just something I was feeling, because I was very impatient and really wanting to know how this book would end. Some people didn't like the ending, but I loved it! In the afterword King discusses his research a bit. You can most definitely tell that a lot of research and thought went into this novel. The descriptions are vivid and when I say you are really transported back to the 60's I mean it. You will feel it. 11/22/63 is a truly memorable, wonderfully written book that I have already recommended to several family members and friends, and I will continue to recommend for years to come. This is another of King's books that I could see as a film, too. If you are wanting to try a Stephen King book, but don't know if you will like all the horror, read this! It is not like that at all. ...more *sigh*... I'm so upset that it's over... You got me at the ending there, Stephen. You really, truly got me. What can I possibly say about this wonderful, beautiful book? That it's wonderful and beautiful? No. That's no where near enough praise. This book made it up to my top 3 favorites list by King (placing at #3) and is probably my favorite book of 2011 (if not tied with Shutter Island ). Reading this book, I was so worried about what the ending would be (because, let's be honest here, we know *sigh*... I'm so upset that it's over... You got me at the ending there, Stephen. You really, truly got me. What can I possibly say about this wonderful, beautiful book? That it's wonderful and beautiful? No. That's no where near enough praise. This book made it up to my top 3 favorites list by King (placing at #3) and is probably my favorite book of 2011 (if not tied with Shutter Island ). Reading this book, I was so worried about what the ending would be (because, let's be honest here, we know King isn't the best at handling endings... Exhibit A: Under the Dome ), and I had a really strong feeling I knew what the ending would be, but that ending was just absolutely amazing ... It left everything wrapped up nicely, and was one of his better endings, if not his best (or at least my favorite, even though it's not wrapped up with a pretty bow). The last chapter made me grin ear to ear, but then it left me feeling sad beyond words can describe. To be honest, after I turned the last page (or better yet, clicked, since I own a Kindle), I just sat there and bawled my eyes out, to the point where my husband got worried about me. Yeah... It was that sad. The characters in this book couldn't be better, and I really, truly mean that. I loved every single character (with the exception of Lee Harvey Oswald... Poor Marina...). I loved George/Jake's students, I loved George/Jake, I loved Sadie, I loved Miz Mimi, and much more. I also really liked the purpose of the character the Card Man, even for the very short time he was in the book (I would have liked King to expand a bit more on that, but hey, the book's almost 1000 pages), but the real star in this book was the relationship between George/Jake and Sadie. Their love for each other was undeniable and irrevocable, and just so darn beautiful. Who would have thought that the Stephen King we all know and love (at least I know and love him) could write a beautiful and touching romance alongside a thriller. That was a great shock, and I hope he incorporates this skill of weaving a good relationship into a lot more of his books to come. Being a huge King fan, I couldn't wait for this book to come out. But, in all fairness, I didn't expect to love it. I thought it would be average, maybe even \"just okay\" , but let me tell you... I really, really loved this book. And if you aren't a King fan, please ( pretty please) don't let that stop you from reading this book. This book has absolutely no scary parts, for those of you who abstain from reading Stephen King's books because they are classified as horror, and, like I mentioned earlier on in this review, I actually cried at the end of the book (the first time that I've ever cried while reading a King novel). You can tell that Stephen King put a lot of effort into writing 11/22/63, and his details of life in the late 50's and early 60's really made me wish I was alive then. So, please, even if you don't like Stephen King, read this! It's an absolutely beautiful book, and one I wish I can read for the first time all over again. And if you're still not convinced to read this, would it help if I told you that there's.... Poundcake? ;) PS: You will probably want a box of tissues handy towards the end. And if you're listening to the audiobook, maybe two boxes. For those wondering, these are my top 3 favorite King books: #1: It #2: The Shining #3: (this may shock some people...) previously The Stand . Now it's 11/22/63 \u201cIf there is love, smallpox scars are as pretty as dimples. I'll love your face no matter what is looks like. Because it's yours\u201d \"The past is obdurate for the same reason a turtle's shell is obdurate: because the living flesh inside is tender and defenseless\" \"Home is watching the moon rise over the open, sleeping land and having someone you can call to the window, so you can look together. Home is where you dance with others, and dancing is life.\" \u201cFor a moment everything was clear, and when that happens you see that the world is barely there at all. Don't we all secretly know this? It's a perfectly balanced mechanism of shouts and echoes pretending to be wheels and cogs, a dreamclock chiming beneath a mystery-glass we call life. Behind it? Below it and around it? Chaos, storms. Men with hammers, men with knives, men with guns. Women who twist what they cannot dominate and belittle what they cannot understand. A universe of horror and loss surrounding a single lighted stage where mortals dance in defiance of the dark.\u201d and... To listen to Stephen King read an excerpt from Dr. Sleep , click here . PPS: Dr. Sleep is about Danny Torrance (you know, from The Shining ) as an adult, and how he uses his psychic powers to help patients on death row at the hospital where he works, until a gang of vampires kidnap him... Or something like that... ...more You may ask yourself how in the world did a wife beating, mental degenerate, and multiple country defecting (USA, RUSSIA and an attempt at Cuba) little shit like this kill the charismatic, handsome war hero, and most powerful man in the world. It doesn't make any sense. It never has made any sense. Oswald just does not fit the profile for a guy that could pull off an assassination of this magnitude. He's a semi-educated hillbilly, but he's surprisingly crafty.\" Kennedy provided a golden opportuni You may ask yourself how in the world did a wife beating, mental degenerate, and multiple country defecting (USA, RUSSIA and an attempt at Cuba) little shit like this kill the charismatic, handsome war hero, and most powerful man in the world. It doesn't make any sense. It never has made any sense. Oswald just does not fit the profile for a guy that could pull off an assassination of this magnitude. He's a semi-educated hillbilly, but he's surprisingly crafty.\" Kennedy provided a golden opportunity to every disgruntled crazy out there by deciding to ride in an open car through the hostile city of Dallas, Texas. His swoon-inspiring smile, his wavy hair, and his beautiful wife would not win him votes hidden behind bullet proof glass. A tough election was coming up and Texas was again critical for the Kennedy/Johnson ticket. The parade route was even published in the paper. When Lee Harvey Oswald noticed that the route passed right by the Texas School Book Depository, his place of work, he felt the universe was talking to him. A president riding in an open car sounds insane, but the reality is that a president had not been assassinated since McKinley in 1901. I could see how Kennedy, weighing the risk, would have felt reasonably safe. We all know how that turned out. Jake Epping, an unassuming English teacher, is given an opportunity to go back in time. The time portal, located in the back room of a greasy spoon, will take him back to 1958. A year tantalizingly close to one of the most traumatic events in American history. Jake, now George Amberson, just had to lay low and wait for 1963 to roll around and use that time to come up with a plan to stop the before mentioned Lee Harvey Oswald. King explores the well traveled road of the potential devastating effects of changing the past to influence the future. What if Kennedy had not been killed? My liberal leanings would have me believe that the world would be better today. There are piles of documentation showing that Kennedy had no intention of escalating the war in Vietnam. As he proved with The Cuban Missile Crisis, he was a man that understood the bluff without committing the hardware. He was a man that had been to war, and I find it hard to believe he would have committed American kids to die in the jungles of Southeast Asia. One of Stephen King's strengths is that despite the fact that he is wealthy man and one of the most successful writers in the world, he really understands common everyday people. I found myself developing a real fondness for Jake. I winced when he failed. I whooped when things went well. His romance with Sadie is spun out so nicely that the Kennedy assassination almost becomes a back ground plot. King placed a Japanese proverb at the front of the book and also used it so wonderfully in the plot. Every time I read it I find a smile on my face. \"If there is love, smallpox scars are as pretty as dimples.\" The number on the back page does say 849 pages, but King's writing style makes reading this book effortless. The margins are wide and the print large, so don't let the size of the book keep you from reading this charming book. I'm off to turn my time travel machine, nearly finished, back into something a little less dangerous to the world like a cappuccino machine. See more of my writing at http://www.jeffreykeeten.com You can like my blog page on Facebook here. JeffreyKeeten Blog page ...more Adventures in Time Mowing Dallas, Texas 11/22/63 \u201cHey, you just appeared out of nowhere! How did you do that? And is that a laptop melted onto a lawn mower?\u201d \u201cYeah. See there was this lightning strike and now I can use my time mower to visit the past and \u2026. Wait a second. If you\u2019re from 1963, how did you know what a laptop is? Oh, shit! You\u2019re a time traveler, too?\u201d \u201cYes, I am. What year are you from?\u201d \u201c2011. My name\u2019s Kemper.\u201d \u201cNo way! I\u2019m from 2011, too. My name is George Amberson. I mean, it\u2019s reall Adventures in Time Mowing Dallas, Texas 11/22/63 \u201cHey, you just appeared out of nowhere! How did you do that? And is that a laptop melted onto a lawn mower?\u201d \u201cYeah. See there was this lightning strike and now I can use my time mower to visit the past and \u2026. Wait a second. If you\u2019re from 1963, how did you know what a laptop is? Oh, shit! You\u2019re a time traveler, too?\u201d \u201cYes, I am. What year are you from?\u201d \u201c2011. My name\u2019s Kemper.\u201d \u201cNo way! I\u2019m from 2011, too. My name is George Amberson. I mean, it\u2019s really Jake Epping. Amberson is the alias I\u2019m using here in the past.\u201d \u201cNice to meet you, Jake. So I assume you\u2019re here for JFK and the \u2026uh\u2026event.\u201d \u201cOf course. You too?\u201d \u201cYep. I thought I\u2019d hang out by the grassy knoll, take a few pictures of the fence during the shooting and hopefully put this conspiracy bullshit to bed once and for all.\u201d \u201cYou\u2019re just going to watch? I\u2019m here to stop it.\u201d \u201cStop the JFK assassination? Oh, man. That old chestnut? Really? You\u2018re buying into that myth?\u201d \u201cWhat do you mean, Kemper?\u201d \u201cIt\u2019s the old baby boomer fantasy. \u2018Oh, if only JFK had lived, everything would have been better. He would have gotten us out of Vietnam and the \u201860s wouldn\u2019t have turned ugly and we\u2019d all be living in paradise filled with puppies, unicorns and rainbows.\u2019 Never mind that JFK was the guy who kicked off the really serious troop escalations into Vietnam and gave a wink and a nod to their army for the coup and assassination of the Diem brothers. It\u2019s the Oliver Stone idea where JFK would have saved us from ourselves if only the Vast Conspiracy hadn\u2019t killed him first.\u201d \u201cOh, well, I guess we did think that saving JFK would make things much better, but we don\u2019t think there\u2019s a big conspiracy. I\u2019m just here to stop Oswald.\u201d \u201cAt least we agree on that. But are you sure you should be changing stuff in the past? That seems really dangerous and could cause all kinds of paradoxes. I just wander around and look at stuff, I don\u2019t try to change anything. You don\u2019t want to end up killing your own grandfather, do you? Or worse yet, accidentally become your own grandfather. Yuk!\u201d \u201cIt should be fine. We did a few trial runs, and everything seemed OK.\u201d \u201cHow did you do trial runs? In fact, how do you time travel? I don\u2019t see a time mower around. And who is this \u2018we\u2019 you keep mentioning, Jake?\u201d \u201cI\u2019m a high school English teacher from Maine. I have a friend named Al who found a kind of portal in time. We call it the rabbit hole. Every time you go through it, you wind up at the same day in our home town in 1958. Al went through the rabbit hole over and over for years and discovered that no matter how long you stay, when you go back through the portal, only two minutes have elapsed since you left.\u201d \u201cDidn\u2019t Al end up with a bunch of versions of himself in 1958 then?\u201d \u201cNo, because every time you go through the portal, history resets itself like you were never there the first time.\u201d \u201cLet me see if I understand this, Jake. So if your buddy Al went through the portal to 1958 and changed something like saved somebody\u2019s life, and then he went back through to the present, the change would have been made. The person he saved was alive, but if he goes back through the portal to the past again, then everything resets to the original timeline and that person would die, unless Al saved them again, right?\u201d \u201cExactly. But there\u2019s a few odd things like you could go back and buy something like a hat. You could wear that hat back to the present, and it\u2019d still be there. And you could go back to the past wearing that hat which resets everything, but when you went to the store you bought it from, the same hat would still be on your head and on the shelf at the same time! Isn\u2019t that cool? It\u2019s how Al was able to accumulate money and a few other items and still take them back to the past when he needed.\u201d \u201cThat doesn\u2019t sound\u2026.right. Jake, are you sure about this? I\u2019m getting very nervous that you\u2019re going to wipe me out of existence or something.\u201d \u201cI told you, Kemper, we did a few trial runs where we saved people from some ugly fates and then went back to the future and everything was fine.\u201d \u201cStill, you\u2019re talking about saving a guy who is going to have a huge impact on history with no idea of how it will play out.\u201d \u201cDon\u2019t worry, Al spent a lot of time thinking about this and doing research. He worked it all out.\u201d \u201cLet me guess. Al is a baby boomer, right?\u201d \u201cUh\u2026yeah.\u201d \u201cOK, so he talked you into doing this, right? He convinced you that everything would be peaches and gravy if JFK had lived, didn\u2018t he?\u201d \u201cUh\u2026.kind of.\u201d \u201cWho is Al then? A physicist? A historian?\u201d \u201cUh\u2026no. He owns the local diner.\u201d \u201cHe owns a diner?\u201d \u201cYou see, the time portal he found was in his pantry.\u201d \u201cHe\u2019s a diner owner with a time portal in his pantry?\u201d \u201cYes.\u201d \u201cIf Al\u2019s so convinced that this is the right thing to do, how come he didn\u2019t do it himself?\u201d \u201cHe tried. He came through and lived here several years while he watched Oswald. That\u2018s why neither of us just killed him. We wanted to be absolutely sure he was acting alone, but then Al got really sick and knew he wouldn\u2019t be able to stop Oswald. So he went back to 2011 and told me about the rabbit hole.\u201d \u201cOh, hell. I just realized that you had to live here for five years waiting for this moment. Damn, five years in the past must have sucked, Jake.\u201d \u201cActually, I\u2019ve gotten used to it. It was hard at first because I had to go back through and fix some things we\u2019d done on our trial runs again. You know, because of the reset. I couldn\u2019t stand to let those bad things happen. I had to spend some time in a really nasty town in Maine called Derry.\u201d \u201cDerry? I think I\u2019ve heard of it.\u201d \u201cReally? It was a very ugly place in 1958. They had some child murders.\u201d \u201cWow, that sounds really familiar for some reason.\u201d \u201cAnyhow, then I spent some time in Florida and then moved to a small town in Texas. I started teaching again and built up a whole life for myself as George Amberson. I really like it here in the past now. I\u2019m thinking about trying to stay forever.\u201d \u201cBut what about the segregation and the sexism and the second hand smoke and the lack of high-def television, Jake? Doesn\u2019t that bother you?\u201d \u201cA little. But they have really good root beer in this time. And stuff is really cheap! I can buy a new car for peanuts.\u201d \u201cNice to see that you don\u2019t let a little thing like institutional racism ruin your appreciation of a good deal. Speaking of which, how did you make money? Just teaching?\u201d \u201cAl gave me some and he had a sheet of sporting events I could bet on to make more. Like I made a pretty penny betting on the Dallas Texans to beat Houston the other night. It was very cool to bet on the Cowboys before they were even the Cowboys.\u201d \u201cUh\u2026Jake, do you think the Dallas Texans became the Dallas Cowboys?\u201d \u201cSure.\u201d \u201cThat\u2019s not right. The Texans were the AFL team started by Lamar Hunt. The NFL started the Cowboys in Dallas just to screw with him, and he eventually had to move the team to Kansas City and change their name to the Chiefs. The Cowboys were always the Cowboys.\u201d \u201cReally? Are you sure about that, Kemper?\u201d \u201cYes, I\u2019m goddamn sure about it, I\u2019m from Kansas City. Jesus, you are scaring the shit out of me.\u201d \u201cWhy?\u201d \u201cWhy? Because you\u2019re back in time screwing around doing stuff like betting football games when you have no idea what the hell you\u2019re even really betting on. I hope to hell you know a lot more about the JFK assassination than you do about pro football.\u201d \u201cNot really.\u201d \u201cWhat??\u201d \u201cI told you, I was an English teacher, not history. I don\u2019t really know much more than what I remember from my classes in college. I\u2019ve got Al\u2019s notes\u2026\u201d \u201cThe research done by the diner owner with the JFK obsession? That\u2019s all you have to go on as you muck around with history, Jake? Did you at least bring some history books with you?\u201d \u201cUh\u2026\u201d \u201cOh, you have got to be shitting me.\u201d \u201cWe were pressed for time, Kemper!\u201d \u201cPressed for time?? You said that Al spent years getting ready for this? And each time hop only takes you two minutes, right? You guys couldn\u2019t have found twenty minutes to run into a damn library and check out an American history book?\u201d \u201cWell, in hindsight I guess that would have been a good idea.\u201d \u201cYa think? I really wish you would have thought this through more than just doing a couple of test runs. You should have done that like twenty times. It would have taken you just forty minutes, right?\u201d \u201cIt\u2019s not that simple, Kemper. You see, for one thing, the time we spent in the past is still elapsed time. I started this when I was thirty-five, and if I go back, only two minutes will have passed in 2011, but I\u2019ll still be forty. If something goes wrong now, I\u2019d have to go back and do all of it again from 1958 on. I don\u2019t think I can handle that.\u201d \u201cI hadn\u2019t thought about that. I guess it\u2019s like playing a video game with a really crappy system of save check points. The deeper you get into, the more you have to lose.\u201d \u201cExactly, but it\u2019s not just that. You see, the past does not want to be changed. If you try to revise something, it fights back. When we did our trial runs, it threw everything it could at us from car trouble to illness, and the bigger the event, the harder it tries to stop you. So doing a bunch of trial runs just isn\u2019t very practical, Kemper.\u201d \u201cSumming up here: You\u2019re an English teacher who was talked into trying to stop the JFK assassination via a time portal. You\u2019ve spent years of your life doing this even though there\u2019s clearly some very wonky elements to the resetting of the past when you go through and time itself seems to be working against you? And this seems like a good idea, Jake?\u201d \u201cPlease don\u2019t yell at me, Kemper. I did this with the best of intentions. It\u2019s been very hard living like this, and the past seems to be trying to sabotage my life here now. I\u2019m very tired and scared, and this is all coming to a head, and I\u2019m not sure what\u2019s going to happen \u2026*sob*.\u201d \u201cDon\u2019t cry. I\u2019m sorry. It\u2019s just\u2026. This doesn\u2019t seem like it was thought through very well, Jake. I mean, you seem like a nice guy. I\u2019ll admit that it sounds like you have good intentions, but you know what the road to hell is paved with.\u201d \u201cI know, I know. But I\u2019ve come too far to stop now.\u201d \u201cYeah, I guess so. Good luck you poor bastard. Try not to break the space/time continuum.\u201d ****************************************** Kemper\u2019s Present Day Note About Stephen King and Kansas City Sports Errors (Or Are They?) The error where Jake thinks about the Dallas Texans someday becoming the Dallas Cowboys is actually in the book, but since it\u2019s a first person account and Jake is definitely not a historical expert, it\u2019s possible that King knew this and just meant for it to be Jake\u2019s error.* (*Edit - Actually, I realized later on that even this doesn't make sense since the Cowboys and Texans were both formed in 1960. It was part of the rivalry between the NFL and old AFL. This was a big story in Dallas at the time and both teams did tons of promotions and advertising so it doesn't seem possible that Jake was somehow unaware of the existence of the Cowboys.) However, this isn\u2019t the first time King has caused me to scratch my head with KC sports references. In The Dark Tower IV: Wizard and Glass , there is another oddity when the gunslingers are in an alternate version of Topeka, Kansas, that seems to be the one where King\u2019s The Stand took place. There, they see a car with a bumper sticker that says Kansas City Monarchs instead of Kansas City Royals and this is supposed to be evidence that they\u2019re in an alternate world. But the old Negro Leagues baseball team that had players like Satchel Paige was called the Monarchs, and you can still purchase Monarchs merchandise in KC today. (I\u2019ve got a spiffy Monarchs hat I got at the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum.) These wouldn\u2019t bother me so much if I thought for sure that they were just errors, but the fact that they\u2019ve both involved a possibly unreliable narrator or hopping to alternate worlds leaves King some wiggle room that bugs me for some reason. Are they mistakes or is King just being cute? I. DON\u2019T. KNOW. And that makes me nuts. Kemper\u2019s Spoilerific Present Day Note About the Ending of 11/22/63 (view spoiler) [ You can tell from my little flight of fancy above that I\u2019m not a big believer of the notion that JFK was some kind of awesome president who would have saved the country from Vietnam and the chaos of the \u201860s. When I heard the concept of this book, I worried that King was succumbing to a bad case of baby boomer JFKitis, and the early parts of the book seem to have confirmed this. Also, while I enjoyed the rabbit hole and reset the timeline rules, I thought the idea that you could bring objects back but they\u2019d still exist in the reset past as a cheat and the kind of internal inconsistency that King allows in his work whenever it\u2019s convenient to the story. I was greatly relieved that by the end of this book, King seemed to have set aside the rose colored JFK glasses and made that oddity about the objects part of a paradox instead of just a plot contrivance. (hide spoiler) ] ...more I'm a reluctant fan of Stephen King. But this book was terrible. The main guy is a teacher. EVERY POSSIBLE CLICHE ABOUT TEACHERS is in this book. As in: 1. Meticulously correcting oral grammar 2. Catching some kids drinking at the sock hop, but letting them off easy after a heartfelt talk about actions and consequences 3. Directing a play and thereby enabling the town's best football player to realize his intellectual strengths and on and on. There are also a series of contrived plot twists. For examp I'm a reluctant fan of Stephen King. But this book was terrible. The main guy is a teacher. EVERY POSSIBLE CLICHE ABOUT TEACHERS is in this book. As in: 1. Meticulously correcting oral grammar 2. Catching some kids drinking at the sock hop, but letting them off easy after a heartfelt talk about actions and consequences 3. Directing a play and thereby enabling the town's best football player to realize his intellectual strengths and on and on. There are also a series of contrived plot twists. For example: 1. A crazed ex-husband shows up out of nowhere to kill the female lead for no reason and with no explanation. 2. AMNESIA. There's actually a case of amnesia in this story. Sure does throw a wrench into things! And then, there's the love story. Here are the problems: 1. In my opinion, one or both of the characters has to be/do something cute or sexy or funny or interesting to merit falling in love. It can't just be like, \"I realized she had a vagina and that I could potentially get all up in it. How I loved her.\" 2. Stephen King writes about sex as though he's never had sex. I've said this about him before. You know that scene in 40 Year Old Virgin where he's talking about how boobs feel like bags of sand, and everyone's like, \".....?\" That's what reading Stephen King's sex scenes is like. One could make the case that, because Stephen King is a dude, it's impossible for him to know what first-time sex is like for a woman, but you don't have to be exposed to too many books or movies or TV shows to know that it fucking sucks. There's no \"OhmygodYES\" the first time you have sex as a woman. There's crying. 3. The reason why the woman is a virgin is that her husband of some years didn't want to put his dick in her \"germy woman-hole.\" Really??????? That's not a thing that happens. And all of this is to say nothing of the super-ridiculous time travel rules. Like I know it's sci-fi and that he writes a novel every twelve days and all, but let's put in some effort, here. Skip this one and re-read Salem's Lot. The rest of this post has spoilers in it so stop now if you haven't already read it. So the guy changes the past and then comes back to find SWASTIKAS on everything, and encounters some teens on their way to a \"Hate Meeting.\" Not extremely subtle or realistic, ya know? ...more Real spoilers are inside \"spoiler\" tags. Things that tell a little about the content that I would have appreciated hearing before committing to this behemoth are not. You've been warned. This is my first Stephen King read. I'm not a horror fan, but I love a good alternate history, and I figured that a story of a man who goes back in time to stop Kennedy's assassination could be one of those. It isn't. Not the biggest hurdle, because this could still have been an enjoyable read if it had been abou Real spoilers are inside \"spoiler\" tags. Things that tell a little about the content that I would have appreciated hearing before committing to this behemoth are not. You've been warned. This is my first Stephen King read. I'm not a horror fan, but I love a good alternate history, and I figured that a story of a man who goes back in time to stop Kennedy's assassination could be one of those. It isn't. Not the biggest hurdle, because this could still have been an enjoyable read if it had been about a man who travels back to live in a different time and gives insightful commentary on the similarities and differences between these cultures. This book wasn't that, either. It was exactly what I had (naively) been trying not to read: a horror. Your basic stabby horror, with a slight twist. In this book, the immutability of the past, its obduracy to cling to what has already been, is the thing with teeth. I know that doesn't sound traditionally horrific, but its manifestation is that when the main character is trying to do something that would result in immediately changing the outcome of a big event--such as an event in which someone originally got killed--this aspect of the past intervenes repeatedly and violently to keep him from doing it. (view spoiler) [The past sends cars hurtling toward him through red lights, or it gives him an intense migraine headache, or it sends someone after him with a gun. Or all of those, and others. So the \"dramatic\" parts of the story involve our hero attempting to get to his destination and, for example, having to stop for green lights while traffic barrels through in the other direction, then having to go deal with his overwhelming diarrhea, then having to talk some completely random guy out of shooting him for a nonsense reason. Then he has to deal with a topiary. Seriously. A major part of the climax of the novel involves him trying to run up six flights of stairs having just broken a few ribs in a car crash, while also being a few weeks out of a coma. (hide spoiler) ] Since the part where he tries to stop Kennedy's assassination doesn't happen until about 750 pages into the book, King compensates by having other characters behave in very violent ways. There's a killing of a family by sledgehammer-wielding maniac described in detail multiple times in the first 300 pages. Later on, a woman gets her cheek ripped open by a knife-wielding maniac. Multiple people kill themselves in front of our hero by slitting their throats. The structure of the novel is as follows: guy finds out he can easily go back in time to 1958, to the same minute of the same day each time he goes. He becomes part of his friend's plot to keep Kennedy from being killed. Except the guy doesn't quite believe this whole time travel thing, so he goes back to 1958, spends about 2 months hanging out and making observations about what various companies' slogans are (always reproduced in all caps, so that it feels like they're being yelled from the page), stops a violent crime from happening close to home, and zips back to 2011 to confirm that, yes, he did change the past. He returns to 1958, re-stops that crime, and then spends the better part of five years waiting for Kennedy's assassination attempt. That's the middle of the book: him sitting around in the early 1960s, in a holding pattern, scoping out downtown Dallas and following Lee Harvey Oswald from a distance so he can convince himself that he really doesn't like this guy. It takes at least 600 pages for 1963 to arrive. The decision of what to do to Oswald is presented as simple and binary, in a way that bugged me throughout the book. If our hero finds out that Oswald is the lone person behind the assassination, then the only course of action considered is for our guy to kill him. There's some momentary advance remorse about that, but not much, because Oswald is known to have killed Kennedy in the real timeline. The thing I still don't get is, in the real timeline, Oswald died as a direct result of having been arrested for Kennedy's murder. Which means that a person who simply kept Oswald from being present on the parade route that day (by any means necessary, gory ones included--slit the guy's arm open with a knife, for example) would save both Kennedy's life and Oswald's. No murder necessary. King doesn't even give this idea lip service--killing is presented as the only possible plan in order to get the assassination stopped. Back to our hero. After he changes history, (view spoiler) [he finds out that human events are so important that if they get changed as significantly has he has altered them, the entire earth reacts. Human events cause geological events. By stopping Kennedy's assassination, he initiates massive earthquakes, leading to lots of deaths and eventually to nuclear meltdowns years later. All of which means that instead of King doing the thing that people tend to find intriguing when reading alternate histories--giving his answer to \"what really would have happened with Vietnam and Civil Rights and all that if Kennedy hadn't been shot?\"--he's got a few alternate leaders in power, sure, but he makes them deal with lots of random catastrophes in the physical world, and resulting catastrophes among populations, that didn't happen in the real timeline (hide spoiler) ] . So you spend 800 pages wondering what King thinks this history would have looked like with more Kennedy in it, and...you don't get your answer. King's writing itself is very workmanlike. He is rarely poetic or descriptive in ways that give any deeper meaning or even paint a vivid picture. This would be fine (or something on the yawn-inducing side of fine) if this were a fast, plot-driven book, but it's not. The engine of the book is the main character's time travel journey back from 2011 to 1958 and the years immediately following, but nothing that he ever says makes this feel like reality. The narrator is supposed to be 35 in 2011, which places him in my own age cohort--but I think even someone 10 or 20 years older than I am, given the time-travel option, would have a lot of strong visceral reactions to the way the world was back then. King has him comment on the fact that root beer tastes \"fuller\" from a 1958 soda fountain than it does in the present--but frankly, that doesn't give me much to go on, and he uses that same descriptor every time he references the root beer (an awful lot) without adding to the picture. And that's it: he does nothing else to show how the experience of drinking at a 1958 soda fountain would be different from the experience that someone born in the late 1970s would be used to at a diner in the 21st century. It's like this with so many things: either our hero doesn't seem to notice all the little differences in daily life, or he treats these with a nostalgia borrowed from the author. The representation of his age is wrong on other levels, too--the guy says he had never used a rotary phone before traveling to 1958, even though many people from older generations (like my grandparents and anyone else who could remember the Depression) held on to their rotary phones until almost the 1990s; and yet this same guy has a thorough and in-depth understanding of how to mess with records and record players to slow down playback. His first time in 1958, our hero buys what is apparently a cool 1950s car and instantly falls in love with driving it, to the extent that he detests his Toyota Corolla with a passion when he gets back to 2011. The shift in his loyalties is instantaneous and unequivocal--no disorientation about the lack of seat belts or other now-familiar features in an older car, just a seamless love for all things vintage that feels too uncomplicated to be on-target. The cigarette smoke is another of this kind of example: our hero comments that smoke and smokers are everywhere, but then just seems able to ignore it. It rings false that a 2011 non-smoker who finds himself in a place where every restaurant and bank has people smoking in it, and where every hotel room, used car, and cab reeks of cigarettes, wouldn't have a lot more adjusting to do than just the casual shrug that the guy gives when he mentions it. It may sound weird that, given a book that's far too long, I'd be complaining about a lack of words, but it's more that the things King chooses to say often don't contribute to the storytelling (or plotting or character development or setting) and instead are meaningless, repetitive, and make the lack of significant detail all the more conspicuous by its absence. While I was reading this book, my commuting audiobook was TC Boyle's Drop City, which is set in a hippie commune in 1970. The contrast between how Boyle gives a sense of 1970 and how King gives a sense of 1960 is vertiginous. Now for the -isms. After about 250 pages of 1958, it struck me that King was painting an idealistic, whitewashed picture of what was a turbulent and violent time with regard to civil rights. And right then, our hero said exactly the same thing in the narrative: \"in case this seems like an overly happy picture, let me tell you about this 'colored' restroom I saw outdoors in North Carolina.\" (I'm paraphrasing, but not by much.) He goes on to describe a rest stop in which the regular bathroom is labeled for use by whites only and the signs to the 'colored' restroom lead to something awful. Completely reasonable and valid point made right there...except that it's the only place where he describes that kind of treatment. Anytime else in the book when he wants to talk about Civil Rights or unequal treatment or any of that, he references the bathroom in North Carolina. It doesn't seem to matter that the character drives from Florida to Texas across all of the most virulently racist states in the South during a time when race-related violence was peaking, then lives in Texas for another few years. In all that time, he runs across a white man who says racist things and consequently decides he doesn't like the guy...and that's about it. This 2011 character is walking around in the South living in segregated neighborhoods, eating at segregated lunch counters (at which he always comments that the food is both good and cheap), drinking from segregated water fountains, riding buses where he gets to sit down when others have to stand in back because of their difference in skin color--and barely notices all of the casual racism entrenched in this world. I found it unreasonable that after a lifetime spent having at least some African-American friends/classmates/teachers/co-workers (yes, even in Maine), a lifetime that almost definitely included watching The Cosby Show and Men in Black and very definitely included years of having an African-American president in the White House, our hero would be able to ignore the treatment of others around him almost every moment of every day. The fact that not only doesn't he notice this around him, but also that he has to reach way back to that one restroom in North Carolina whenever he needs to talk about discrimination, comes across as casually racist. Anti-Semitism: there are four characters in the book who are described explicitly as Jewish. One of them is Jack Ruby, a real person who apparently owned a strip club (King makes sure to point out) and who was the guy who shot Oswald in the real timeline after he was in custody. The other three are fictional, all bookies. They run pawn shops and have Mob ties and all make their money explicitly from the suffering of others. (I could mention the two female family members we are introduced to as well, but they aren't characters--the narrative states explicitly at one point that they are interchangeable. They also work in the family money businesses.) I'd like to thank Stephen King personally for perpetuating stereotypes that just need to freaking die already. While we're at it, sexism: our hero is a guy who starts dating a woman in about 1961, and he also spends a number of years teaching high school (don't get me started on that--an English teacher from 2011 travels back 50 years and starts teaching adolescents seamlessly, without having any trouble adjusting to the loss of the most recent five decades of writing to teach from? The loss of recognized diversity in curricula? How limited a teacher is he?), and yet he never sees anything to complain about with regard to the way women are treated in that time. He comments that they're expected to wear girdles sometimes, but he compares that to guys having to wear condoms and says that guys have it worse. Otherwise, he conveys no sense in the least that girls or women might have an easier time of things in 2011 than they do in 1961. I could say more about my dislike of this book. I could mention my frustration with the way that King writes as though he knows nothing about what the Butterfly Effect actually references for the first 800 pages--so that when he reveals that he mostly gets it, it's too little, too late. I could rant about many other aspects of the novel. Instead, I'll end by saying that there are books out there that accomplish what King is trying to do, using well-chosen words (and fewer of them), thoughtful plots, and skilled character development. For true alternate history, try Lion's Blood: A Novel of Slavery and Freedom in an Alternate America , by Steven Barnes. For a time-travel study in contrasts, try Kindred , by Octavia Butler. For an experience of recent history that feels immersive and real (1970, complete with sex, drugs, and rock'n'roll), try Drop City , by TC Boyle. ...more WOW! What a great read! UNPUTDOWNABLE! My favorite book of the year thus far. Highly recommend! Occam's Razor - the simplest explanation is usually the right one. Update: February 15, 2016 - Watched the first episode on HULU.......Yikes! Get ready for some action-packed scenes that \"jump\" out at you and some super scary dudes from hell! Can't wait to get back to it, but want to stretch out the series to last! Update: June 4, 2016 - Wow! Oh! Wow! Excellent! Enjoyed a marathon day of all 8 episodes WOW! What a great read! UNPUTDOWNABLE! My favorite book of the year thus far. Highly recommend! Occam's Razor - the simplest explanation is usually the right one. Update: February 15, 2016 - Watched the first episode on HULU.......Yikes! Get ready for some action-packed scenes that \"jump\" out at you and some super scary dudes from hell! Can't wait to get back to it, but want to stretch out the series to last! Update: June 4, 2016 - Wow! Oh! Wow! Excellent! Enjoyed a marathon day of all 8 episodes of Season 1. Intense.....Powerful.....Action Packed! Don't Miss It! ...more I had just sat down to begin this review on my laptop when the doorbell went. I wasn't expecting anyone. It was probably going to be one of those pitiful door to door salesmen trying to get me to buy a dishcloth for a fiver. They make me feel so bad. But it wasn't. I opened the door and looked at myself. It was me. \"Huh, what? \" I said. \"You're\u2026 you're\u2026\" \"Yeah, that's right. I'm you. Sorry about that. Like looking in a mirror, isn't it? But worse!\" \"Uh\u2026 what's goin' on ?\" This was bad, I was quotin I had just sat down to begin this review on my laptop when the doorbell went. I wasn't expecting anyone. It was probably going to be one of those pitiful door to door salesmen trying to get me to buy a dishcloth for a fiver. They make me feel so bad. But it wasn't. I opened the door and looked at myself. It was me. \"Huh, what? \" I said. \"You're\u2026 you're\u2026\" \"Yeah, that's right. I'm you. Sorry about that. Like looking in a mirror, isn't it? But worse!\" \"Uh\u2026 what's goin' on ?\" This was bad, I was quoting Marvin Gaye album titles now. \"May I come in?\" I said \"Well, I suppose so,\" I said. So I went inside. I made myself a cup of tea and one for me too. We sat down at the table and regarded each other with frank horror. \"I don't really look like that, do I?\" I was looking kind of rough. \"What's this all about? Are you a clone?\" \"No, I'm the one and only you, that's to say I'm me all right. I'm from the future. 26th of November 2012 to be precise.\" \"Oh you think I'm going to believe that?\" I raised my eyebrows in a hauty sceptical manner. \"I just read a book about time travel. It's that one there \u2013 \" I gestured to the fat wedge on the table between us. \"In fact I was just about to review it.\" \"Stephen King's 11.22.63 \u2013 yes, that's the reason I'm here.\" \"Huh?\" \"I'll come to the point, PB. \" My eyes narrowed almost to the point where I couldn't see out of them. \"You can't write that review. The one you were going to. You have to change it.\" \"What do you mean, change it? How do you know what I was going to write, anyway, I haven't written it yet?\" \"Because I wrote it, remember? I'm you. Come on, the guy in this book is a lot quicker on the uptake than this. I haven't got all day.\" I could be a bit snappy sometimes. \"You were all set to launch into one of your famous diatribes weren't you? You'd already worked up a few choice phrases, along the lines of So he goes back in time to 1958 and he's living through these years waiting to get to the assassination bit and that's where the story becomes this I-Love-The-Late-50s-Stroke-Early-Sixties loveletter from Stephen King to his own childhood. The boring teacher gets to meet a girl and fall in lurve, sweet sweet lurve. That's not a spoiler, it's in the blurb, sweet sweet blurb. He gets to live in The perfect Small Town. He gets to Affect Kids' Lives. He gets to Feel Alive For The First Time and swear he's never going back to the Future again! He gets to blurt out anachronistic slang and have people look at him funny! He gets to wince at casual racism! It's all good. But not for me. I wanted to get back to Oswald. I paid my damn ticket, and I wanted to see some Oswald. The ticket did not say GREASE IS THE WORD on it. But for 200 pages it may as well have. But Oswald's the one that I want. Oooh ooh ooh. I was amazed \u2013 that was exactly what I was going to write. \"So as usual you were going to be so mean. You can't deny it. I know you were because you did it, that's to say I did it, and I'm here now to stop myself from doing it.\" \"Okay so let me get this straight, you came from the future \u2013 howja do that anyway?\" \"There's a portal in next-door's garden shed. I got the idea of looking for a portal when I read this book.\" \"Oh \u2013 anyway, you came from the very near future and you decided the most important thing to do was to stop me writing one particular review on Goodreads of one dubious Stephen King novel? Why didn't you do something more useful than that? \" \"Well, I did,\" I whined. \"I already prevented Kate Middleton from falling downstairs at Buckingham Palace \u2013 that was tough, you know the past doesn't want to be changed. And I found somebody's lost cat for them. And now you \u2013 you're the last on my list.\" \"So what's the big deal about my review of 11.22.63?\" \"Well, you read the thing, so you know about the Butterfly effect, right?\" \"Er, yes. Stephen King goes on and on and on about it.\" \"Well, there you are. Because of that.\" \"I don't get it.\" \"Well, like that song You can't move forward without movin back \" \"I've never heard of that.\" \"Oh of course \u2013 that's from three weeks in the future. Sorry about that, I gave myself away there.\" \"No you didn't, you already told me you're from the future.\" \"Oh yes, so I did. It can be confusing getting all this straight in your head when you're from the future. Got any aspirin? Anyway, your nasty review gets to be unaccountably popular on Goodreads.\" \"Oh yeah, it does? As popular as The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle? \" \"More than that.\" \"Great!\" \"No, not great.\" \"But I need another hit. I've been getting kind of middling results for months. You're only as good as your last review, you know. It's a vicious world. No compassion. \" I was quoting old Talking Heads song titles, but this was a once in a lifetime thing that was happening. So that made it okay. \"Yeah well, that's the problem. After your review things\u2026 happen. If your review persuades just one single person not to buy the book, then that's probably why in three weeks' time Japan splits in half and most people have got acne in the world of three weeks from now. The future is important, it must be preserved. Hosts of butterflies are always in the air, waiting to fly around like crazy ass future-changing bastards.\" \"That's ridiculous.\" Suddenly we heard the front door opening. \"That'll be Helen, she's usually back from work at this time.\" \"Ah, I'd forgotten. This will be awkward. Isn't there any place for me to hide? \" \"Er, no \u2013 this is just a normal living room, as you know, since it's yours. You could try to hide behind the settee but you'll have to shove it out from the wall, and she'll notice I think.\" It was too late. She came into the room and surveyed the both of us. \"This is a bit weird. He's me but he's from the future.\" She didn't miss a beat. \"Oh well, you've just come in time. I need you to pick up Georgia from school, she had a rehearsal for the play so I couldn't do it, and can you (pointing at the future me) nip to Sainsbury's and get me a few things? I need you to be quick, I'm in a mad rush. I've got that thing tonight, remember?\" And she gave me a shopping list. I looked at me. \"Is this kind of thing allowed? Now we're doing Multiplicity.\" \"Oh yes, that old film with Michael Keaton. That was quite good. Yes, well, I suppose this once. But look \u2013 you have to give 11.22.63 three stars. Remember Japan and acne.\" \"Okay, I promise.\" That's the last I saw of me until I got curious about whether there really was a portal in the neighbour's garden shed. ...more Jake Epping, a high school English teacher living in Lisbon Falls, Maine, seems to enjoy his vocation along with the very cheap burgers at Al\u2019s Diner made fresh daily by owner Al Templeton. Meeting up with Al one evening, Jake is stunned by the astonishing secret Al has kept for several years. As Jake listens closely he is extremely skeptical and shocked about Al\u2019s request; he wants him to go on a journey. Not any ordinary journey, but an extraordinary and quite unique mission that he needs to t Jake Epping, a high school English teacher living in Lisbon Falls, Maine, seems to enjoy his vocation along with the very cheap burgers at Al\u2019s Diner made fresh daily by owner Al Templeton. Meeting up with Al one evening, Jake is stunned by the astonishing secret Al has kept for several years. As Jake listens closely he is extremely skeptical and shocked about Al\u2019s request; he wants him to go on a journey. Not any ordinary journey, but an extraordinary and quite unique mission that he needs to take at once. 11/22/63 is guaranteed to capture readers and draw them into a time period that many will recall and reminisce with pleasure about the good old days. For the most part the story moves along at a gentle speed, no rushing, no fast action, just an easy going way of telling a profound heartfelt tale. However, when you least expect it the story line takes an abrupt turn with nail biting, breath-taking moments. Stephen King is a master at his craft and 11/22/63 is a dazzling, outstanding achievement. Highly recommended to all readers. ...more What did I think? I think I lost a weekend and there is no way to go back in time to get it because I don't know where the rabbit hole is! But would I? Would I change having read this book? No way! I was a huge Stephen King fan in high school and gobbled up all of his books. Until ... they went from cool weird to over-the-top weird. Suddenly coke machines were your worst enemy and there seemed to be a less emotional element mixed with the macabre (think Pet Cematary) and it was just a bunch of wo What did I think? I think I lost a weekend and there is no way to go back in time to get it because I don't know where the rabbit hole is! But would I? Would I change having read this book? No way! I was a huge Stephen King fan in high school and gobbled up all of his books. Until ... they went from cool weird to over-the-top weird. Suddenly coke machines were your worst enemy and there seemed to be a less emotional element mixed with the macabre (think Pet Cematary) and it was just a bunch of words filling up pages talking about near nonsense. I stopped following King. Plain and simple. But over the years I have meandered up his path from time to time ... and found The Dome was along those lines of his original work. But this? This was FANTABULOUS! Right from the get-go the premise draws you in. Who wouldn't want to know what the world would be like if John F. Kennedy hadn't been shot? But this is Stephen King, and he's not taking you to bed for good without a boatload of foreplay. I was snagged from page one, and I too was greatly concerned about what happens to the future if you mess up the past! I guess it couldn't end any other way ... and I was a little confused as to the events that supposedly would take place if Kennedy hadn't died ... but I don't want to say anymore. You must read this book and you must understand you will have no other desire to do anything else until it is finished!! ...more Stephen King is not a literary writer. In fact, in literary circles, I am afraid that he may not be considered even a good writer. I am almost certain that he is not going to win the Nobel Prize for literature; even the Booker and Pulitzer also seems unlikely to come to him. Who cares? Because King is the last of that dying breed: the storyteller. The spirit that moves in him is the same which animated the stone-age shaman as he narrated fascinating, fantastic, bloodcurdling, raunchy and sentimen Stephen King is not a literary writer. In fact, in literary circles, I am afraid that he may not be considered even a good writer. I am almost certain that he is not going to win the Nobel Prize for literature; even the Booker and Pulitzer also seems unlikely to come to him. Who cares? Because King is the last of that dying breed: the storyteller. The spirit that moves in him is the same which animated the stone-age shaman as he narrated fascinating, fantastic, bloodcurdling, raunchy and sentimental stories to the group of bug-eyed listeners sitting around the campfire. Thus were myth, art, literature and drama born. This is the root, the fountainhead of everything connected with the human spirit. \u201dIt is the tale, not he who tells it.\u201d - Stephen King Indeed, the tale is everything\u2026 In 11.22.63 , King moves away from his usual area of interest, and produces a time travel story which only he can deliver. This is not the first time he has dabbled in the subject: the concept of changing the past and multiple time-streams are found in The Dark Tower series (albeit in a less earth-shaking manner), and the relativity of time is dealt with to devastating effect in the brilliant short story The Jaunt . But this is the first time King has dealt with time travel itself as the subject of a full-length novel. Jake Epping, a schoolteacher recovering from the trauma of a divorce from his alcoholic wife, is given a strange commission by his friend Al Templeton, the proprietor of Al\u2019s Diner. There is a hole in the fabric of the space-time continuum in Al\u2019s pantry: stepping through it, one can reach the past at September 9, 1958 \u2013 11:58 in the morning. However much time you spend in the past, when you reach back, exactly 2 minutes would have elapsed in the current continuum. You can change the past, but each time you go back through \u201cthe rabbit hole\u201d, it gets reset to whatever sequence of events is present in the current continuum. And the past is stubborn. It does not like changes, and it will resist them: the more momentous the change, the greater the resistance. Al has realised that he has found a window into an America where President John F. Kennedy is still alive. With the benefit of hindsight, a determined person could stop Lee Harvey Oswald from killing the president. Al is convinced that keeping JFK alive would open up the wondrous vista of a timeline without Vietnam, escalation of cold the war and all the subsequent mess the world has got into. He is so obsessed about it that he takes a trip down the rabbit hole with the sole intention of saving the president. The trouble is, the past doesn\u2019t like to be changed \u2013 so in the five years which he has to wait, Al Templeton is struck down with lung cancer, and the awareness sinks in that he may not be able to do the job himself and a deputy would be needed. Which is where Jake Epping steps in. Initially, the sceptical Jake has his own reasons for going into the past \u2013 Harry Dunning, the crippled janitor of his school, whose mother and siblings were killed by his drunken and murderous father. If he can stop this from happening, he can alter Harry's life forever. his effort proves successful, and once he understands that he can really alter the past, Jake gets caught up in Al\u2019s idea. And Al\u2019s suicide and the realisation that the rabbit hole may disappear at any moment harden his resolution. However, what Jake didn\u2019t expect was the Sunday punch the past had in store for him. Love\u2026 *** What I loved most about the book is the way Stephen King avoids the standard time travel clich\u00e9s and paradoxes, and concentrates on the human aspects \u2013 and the nature of evil. Evil in small-town America is a pet theme of King\u2019s: we have seen it surface again and again, as vampires, rabid dogs, insane murderers and even as clowns. So also are human monsters, sometimes much more frightening than the supernatural ones (Greg Stillson and Frank Dodd of The Dead Zone , Norman Daniels of Rose Madder etc.). Here, Lee Harvey Oswald, wife-abuser and murderer, is such a monster \u2013 but King does not concentrate much on him, probably because he has been written about ad nauseum . Instead, the human monsters of this story are Frank Dunning and Johnny Clayton, and they are part of the strangely menacing past which does not want to be changed. Frank Dunning and his family are residents of Derry, Maine \u2013 the same Derry where Pennywise the Clown went on a rampage in It - and as is usual with King\u2019s fictional universe, the stories overlap and Jake makes the acquaintance of two of It \u2019s protagonists, Beverly Marsh and Rich Tozier, in the interlude between the clown\u2019s first visit and the second. Derry is the quintessential creepy town that Stephen King has introduced us to (and taught us to fear) under different names. There is \u201csomething wrong, something bad\u201d. Consider the following passage: Do any of these things bear on the story I am telling? The story of the janitor\u2019s father, and of Lee Harvey Oswald (he of the smirky little I-know-a-secret smile and gray eyes that would never quite meet yours)? I don\u2019t know for sure, but I can tell you one more thing: there was something inside the fallen chimney at the Kitchener Ironworks. I don\u2019t know what and I don\u2019t want to know, but at the mouth of the thing I saw a heap of gnawed bones and a tiny chewed collar with a bell on it. A collar that had surely belonged to some child\u2019s beloved kitten. And from inside the pipe \u2013 deep in that oversized bore \u2013 something moved and shuffled. Come in and see , that something seemed to whisper in my head. Never mind all the rest of it, Jake \u2013 come in and see. Come in and visit. Time doesn\u2019t matter in here; in here, time just floats away. You know you want to, you know you\u2019re curious. Maybe it\u2019s even another rabbit-hole, another portal . Maybe it was, but I don\u2019t think so. I think it was Derry in there \u2013 everything that was wrong with it, everything that was askew, hiding in that pipe. Hibernating. Letting people believe the bad times were over, waiting for them to relax and forget there ever had been bad times at all. This fallen chimney is similar the concrete tunnel in the hotel playground in The Shining , where something asks Danny Torrance to come in and play with it \u201cforever forever forever \u201d or the Oatley Tunnel which Jack Sawyer must brave in The Talisman ; the frightening yet strangely fascinating maw of a dimension where only timeless evil exists. This is the origin of the Frank Dunnings and the Frank Dodds, from where the canker that affects America seeps out. One almost wonders how many time Steve has gazed at that hole, fighting the temptation to go in, at the same time drawing the stories out. However, the aim of the author in this novel is not to creep the reader out, even though all the usual elements are there. The aim here is to explore the strands of time, and how the weaving together of the same creates a particular tapestry. If one could change just one strand, the whole picture will change creating an entirely new pattern: totally random and not repeatable, like the patterns created by the glass pieces in a kaleidoscope. Jake, though he knows in advance what will happen to Harry Dunning and President Kennedy and can theoretically stop it from happening \u2013 provided the obstinate past doesn\u2019t stop him first \u2013 does not have the same power over other events which he knows nothing about. Every small change he makes has an impact on the past and its inhabitants. This is especially true in the case of Sadie Clayton, whom he has come to love. The doomed love affair between Jake and Sadie is, in one sense, the central thread of the novel \u2013 a love affair that is inseparably entwined with the motif of dancing. A set of moves between partners which is predetermined but created afresh every time on the stage: paralleling a past in which lives keep on intersecting and moving away, creating patterns which are reset every time someone enters the rabbit hole. As the author says on the cover page, \u201cdancing is life\u201d. It is this celebration of life with a sense of menace in the background \u2013 a sense that any time, things can go wrong \u2013 that is the highlight of the story: a sense of living in the moment, forgetting the dead past and the unborn future, which is the only protection we puny humans have against the juggernaut of chance. Listen to how Jake describes it: Here\u2019s home: the smell of the sage and the way the hills flush orange with Indian blanket in the summer. The faint taste of tobacco on Sadie\u2019s tongue and the squeak of the oiled wood floorboards in my homeroom\u2026 \u2026Other things, too. People saying howdy on the street, people giving me a wave from their cars, Al Stevens taking Sadie and me to the table at the back that he had started calling \u2018our table\u2019, playing cribbage on Friday afternoons in the teacher\u2019s room with Danny Laverty for a penny a point, arguing with elderly miss Mayer about who gave the better newscast, Chet Huntley and David Brinkley, or Walter Cronkite. My street, my shotgun house, getting used to using a typewriter again. Having a best girl and getting S&H Green Stamps with my groceries and real butter on my movie popcorn. Home is watching the moon rise over the open, sleeping land and having someone you can call to the window, so you can look together. Home is where you dance with others, and dancing is life. But unfortunately, most human beings cannot live in the moment permanently, least of all Jake, a man with a mission. And the story grows progressively darker as 11.22.63 draws nearer, and the past which does not want to be changed closes in on Jake\u2026 and Sadie, because of her association with him: (view spoiler) [resulting in permanent disfigurement for her and a near crippling beating for him. (hide spoiler) ] . The climax, when it comes, however, is rather tame and predictable: so is the aftermath, as Jake learns that it is better to let time flow its own way and not to try and change its course. We feel that Stephen King has let us down with a thud: until the final part of the novel turns the whole story on its head, tying up all the loose ends (The identity of the Yellow/ Orange/ Green Card Man, the terrifying entity Jimla which terrorises Jake in his dreams) and answering all the questions. The novel, fittingly, ends with a dance, between lovers who belong to different time streams. (view spoiler) [Kennedy has not been saved and Vietnam War not averted, however, the world moves on in its perfectly imperfect way all the same. As Jake twirls the octogenarian Sadie around the dance floor, she asks: \u201cWho are you, George?\u201d and he replies: \u201cSomeone you knew in another life, honey.\u201d Trite words, but here, loaded with meaning, which only Jake Epping and his readers can understand. Perfect. (hide spoiler) ] Dancing, indeed, is life. *** In conclusion, I would like to quote a conversation between Sadie and Jake, after she has understood that he is from the future. \u201dJake? Tell me one good thing about the future.\u201d \u201cI\u2019ll give you two for the price of one. The cold war is over and the president is a black man.\u201d Her mouth dropped open. \u201cAre you telling me there\u2019s a Negro in the White House ?\u201d Yes, a lot has happened in fifty short years. Maybe King is right \u2013 this particular strand of the time stream that we are cruising on currently is the best of all possible worlds. Highly recommended. ...more Listen to an excerpt from Stephen King's 11/22/63 audiobook, narrated by Craig Wasson. A grandmaster of storytelling, the Dickens of modern times is back with another top read. He's back with no Here's Johnny! but certainly here's Lee Oswald! a brutal husband and a father. The stage is set the focal time 22nd November 1963, enter the main protagonist Jake Epping soon to be known as George Amberson down the Alice in Wonderland Rabbit Hole, the mission to rewrite history. What Jake undertakes has d Listen to an excerpt from Stephen King's 11/22/63 audiobook, narrated by Craig Wasson. A grandmaster of storytelling, the Dickens of modern times is back with another top read. He's back with no Here's Johnny! but certainly here's Lee Oswald! a brutal husband and a father. The stage is set the focal time 22nd November 1963, enter the main protagonist Jake Epping soon to be known as George Amberson down the Alice in Wonderland Rabbit Hole, the mission to rewrite history. What Jake undertakes has deeper impact on himself than he could wish. You get the feel from this novel that the 1960's was a lovely era, it had a feel of innocence in the air, boys with flattop crew cuts, girls with ponytails and shin length poodle skirts. Jitterbugging and lindyhopping. There is fully flavored Root beer and Catcher in The Rye was banned from school libraries. Jack travels to 1958 and starts his new life with taking up the position of an English teacher in a school that he finds he really loves teaching at and meets people that are to change his future. For a man who has in the past hardly shed a tear he is to learn many new emotions and he can't quite understand how to deal with those responsible for them. In the course of preventing the Kennedy assassination he finds himself with a few obstacles. He also tries to undo another history of a friend from his present, one of the murderous kind. Feel immersed and enjoy a heart warming story of humanness. The beauty and skill of Stephen King's writing is he brings to the table ordinary individuals and pitches them against adversity, some are triumphant others not. The age old battle of good versus evil he does so well, the master conjurer of nightmares, the writer of redemption and darkness of the heart. He writes the character driven story well and don't think he's lost his swagger as he has plenty of steam in his tank and proves it year by year. This is not a king novel in the way as The Shining was a horror novel but is a King novel in that he writes so well with the darkness of heart as a key player. He keeps turning out good stories. Its a hard market the short story category but King always seems to revive the art of Short story telling. Full Dark No Stars by King done so well in 2010 and this year I am sure 11.22.63 as a novel is to lead as the best of 2011. \"If you ever wanted to change the world, this is your chance. Save Kennedy, save his brother. Save Martin Luther King. Stop the race riots. Stop Vietnam, maybe' he leaned forward. 'Get rid of one wretched waif, buddy and you could save millions of lives.\" \"Money comes back. It stays no matter how many times you use the rabbit-hole.\" \"life turns on a dime, and when it does, it turns fast.\" \"The Cullums were at one end of the seesaw; the Oswalds were at the other. And Jake Epping, also known as George Amberson? He was the tipping point.\" \"There's an old saying: peek not through a knothole, lest ye be vexed. Was there ever a bigger knothole in human history than the Internet?\" My review also here plus Stephen King on video interview ...more 5+++++ stars!!! Absolutely loved!! Amazing story as only King could write!!! Going to keep this short, as I'm not sure what new content that I can add with almost 27K reviews of this great work! Key themes: 1) Romantic involvement - wonderful love story. You will be touched, laugh, cry.... 2) Time travel concept - go back in history (to the same point in time) and \"re-do's\" are allowed... -- a wormhole to 1958... go back to the same time, same place 3) Try to change a historic event - the assassinati 5+++++ stars!!! Absolutely loved!! Amazing story as only King could write!!! Going to keep this short, as I'm not sure what new content that I can add with almost 27K reviews of this great work! Key themes: 1) Romantic involvement - wonderful love story. You will be touched, laugh, cry.... 2) Time travel concept - go back in history (to the same point in time) and \"re-do's\" are allowed... -- a wormhole to 1958... go back to the same time, same place 3) Try to change a historic event - the assassination of JFK -- Would you do it if you could -- and should you? 11/22/63 goes to my all time favorites list! It isn't a short work, but it is a fast read because the writing is wonderful and the story is unique and compelling! I HIGHLY recommend this book to ALL readers who like general fiction, historical fiction, or are interested in a theory on the JFK assassination. This is not a horror book, although there are a couple of more \"supernatural\" or creepy moments. I waited too long to read this because the description didn't entice me.... if you are on the fence, try it!! I am already planning a re-read for next year -- will listen to the audio as that format has high marks! ...more **********SOME SPOILERS********** Here is another book I wasn't sure I would like as I don't care for time travel books. BUT.. once again I was wrong and this time travel book was AWESOME! Jake Epping is having a normal day when his friend Al, who owns a diner, lets him in on a big secret. Al's little diner has a portal that leads back to the 1950's - 60's! And Al wants Jake to go back and try to save Kennedy to see if the world would be a better place. Al has been trying for awhile but now he's g **********SOME SPOILERS********** Here is another book I wasn't sure I would like as I don't care for time travel books. BUT.. once again I was wrong and this time travel book was AWESOME! Jake Epping is having a normal day when his friend Al, who owns a diner, lets him in on a big secret. Al's little diner has a portal that leads back to the 1950's - 60's! And Al wants Jake to go back and try to save Kennedy to see if the world would be a better place. Al has been trying for awhile but now he's going to die of cancer and he can't do it any more. But if Jake goes into that time and comes back to 2011 and has to go back then it resets. More slowly than ever, I said: \"Every . . . time . . . is . . . the . . . first time.\" Al has this whole thing set up with money from that time, instructions on Oswald's movements, what to buy, what to do.. it's been a long time in the making for Al so he's prepared and gets Jake ready as much as he can for the journey. Jake heads over a few times in the book just to get the feel of what he's trying to do. He wants to help save a persons family that he knows from this time. Anyhoo, while he's over there he gets himself a 1954 Ford Ragtop Sunliner to cruise around in and it's cherry red. Oh and cheap, back in the day and all! At one point poor ole Jake thinks he's done cracked his nut, and who wouldn't? I'm crazy, I thought. Crazy and having a terribly involved hallucination in a mental hospital somewhere. Perhaps some doctor will write me up for a psychiatric journal. Instead of The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat, I'll be The Man Who Thought He Was in 1958 When Jake goes to help his friend Henry's family, he has to go to Derry, Maine and spend some time there. He feels like the place is not right.... well, all Stephen King fans know who or what is in Derry :-) This is actually one of my favorite, if not favorite parts of the book because not only does he go through some crazy stuff to help his friend... he talks to some of the kids from the book \"IT\" !!!! I was so crazy reading this part. Some of the towns people also talk about some of the stuff that happened when you know who was around. And don't mention clowns in the town! It was just bittersweet to me because I could picture some of the things from the other book with the descriptions in this book. So Jake gets what he wants done in Derry after two attempts of resetting and then he's off to do the main deed. But, first he gets some jobs as a substitute teacher etc. (He's a teacher in 2011) And he falls in love. Yep, can't do nothing without falling in love! And the lovely lady would be Sadie Dunhill. At first I was a little irritated that we had to go off track and fall in love. I wanted to continue on and not get into the drama that came with Sadie but it all worked out in the end. Sadie was a sweet person and I can't really say anything else without major spoilers. Either way, I loved the stories and I loved the characters! If you haven't looked at the end of the book there are some lovely things added. Obviously you have the Afterword, You have questions for discussion for your book group, A conversation with Stephen King, Playlist from the book, Menu from the book which I am excited over as I'm going to make some of the food :-) Another winner in my book, Mr. King! Pun intended! I have yet to see the mini series but it comes out on blu-ray in August so I'm hoping I can get it and see if it's good too! MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List ...more Wow, this book was amazing in many different ways! First of all, it's one of those stories that puzzles with your mind and makes you think: What if? What if you could go back in time and change the future? How would it work out? Stephen King gives us his version of this in this novel, and it is highly entertaining! Secondly, this is one of King's novels that is NOT horror but more of a thriller, and I loved this shift in genre. I've previously claimed that King is a great story-teller but not ne Wow, this book was amazing in many different ways! First of all, it's one of those stories that puzzles with your mind and makes you think: What if? What if you could go back in time and change the future? How would it work out? Stephen King gives us his version of this in this novel, and it is highly entertaining! Secondly, this is one of King's novels that is NOT horror but more of a thriller, and I loved this shift in genre. I've previously claimed that King is a great story-teller but not necessarily the best writer, but I take that back! This book has so many interesting details and observations to it which I loved, and everything wrapped up beautifully! This 700-page-story does have its slow parts which never became dull, but still you had to be patient while getting through them. However, all of a sudden things became very heated and tense and I was on the edge of my seat. Everything kept coming to you in waves and I was enthralled! AND for those of you who are still a bit skeptical, this book has a beautiful romance story. It's not too much; it's just the perfect amount. The novel contains some beautiful scenes which I did not see coming from Stephen King, and I was pleasantly surprised. Read it! It will fly by despite its many pages, and it will puzzle with your mind and make you think differently on the past and the future. ...more This review, along with many of my others, can now be found at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud . Wrist-spraining goodness. Just about as good as it gets. The fiftieth anniversary of the assassination is this week. It's a good time to think about the might-have-beens of history. There are two types of Stephen King readers. The ones who just read his stuff because it is usually \"horror\" and the ones who know what I mean when I saw all stories lead to The Tower. It is impossible to explain how each book is a brick in a much larger wall to someone who hasn't read every single book but trust me when I say...it is an incredible way to read books. So to me there are two ways to read King's work. On it's own merit and how it connects to the rest of The Tower. The last tower book There are two types of Stephen King readers. The ones who just read his stuff because it is usually \"horror\" and the ones who know what I mean when I saw all stories lead to The Tower. It is impossible to explain how each book is a brick in a much larger wall to someone who hasn't read every single book but trust me when I say...it is an incredible way to read books. So to me there are two ways to read King's work. On it's own merit and how it connects to the rest of The Tower. The last tower book ended so badly that I had sworn off King for the foreseeable future if not forever. But I love time travel and I love books about JFK. So I am pretty sure he wrote this book just to rope me in again. I tell you this so you will understand my review. As a book, it is incredible. Once again King takes us back to the late 50's in a way no one else seems to be able to do. The stark difference between that time and ours is almost like reading a fairy tale or ancient history. Unlike Donna Reed or Leave it to Beaver his past isn't perfect in every way, but it is so obviously NOT our time. I am not going to spoil anything but if you don't know the story is about a man who goes back in time to stop JFK from being killed then I'm not sure what you thought it would be about. The story is good, the time travel aspect is decent and the end made me tear up. Now for the part that counts. This is so a Tower book it is insane. If you are a Tower freak like me, this book is for you. It has everything you are looking for, a continuation of IT in a way, creepy homeless guys that aren't what thy seem, a word that is creepy and meaningless at the same time (JIMLA!) and the number 19. The best part is that there is an explanation which is a rare commodity in a King book. At the heart of the story is a love story that I will remember for a long time. A must read for Tower fans. A great read for Kennedy buffs. A sweet read for a good love story. A decent time travel story. A FANTASTIC Stephen King book. ...more When a dying friend shows him a portal to 1958 in the back of his diner, Jake Epping finds himself venturing in the past with one goal in mind: Stopping Lee Harvey Oswald! But did Oswald do it? And can Jake stop him even if he did fire the shot that killed JFK? Once I got over Stephen King's throbbing erection for the late 1950's/early 1960's, I enjoyed this book immensely. Here's how it all went down. Jake's friend, an old diner owner, shows him a portal back to 1958. Each trip is like the first When a dying friend shows him a portal to 1958 in the back of his diner, Jake Epping finds himself venturing in the past with one goal in mind: Stopping Lee Harvey Oswald! But did Oswald do it? And can Jake stop him even if he did fire the shot that killed JFK? Once I got over Stephen King's throbbing erection for the late 1950's/early 1960's, I enjoyed this book immensely. Here's how it all went down. Jake's friend, an old diner owner, shows him a portal back to 1958. Each trip is like the first trip, meaning Al has been buying the same 12 pounds of ground beef at 1958 prices for years. Al wants Jake to stop the Kennedy assassination, something Al had been planning on doing until cancer laid him low. Jake gets railroaded into doing it and finds himself blundering around after Lee Harvey Oswald until 1963. Yeah, it didn't sound that exciting to me either at first but I was hooked right away. Stephen King is criminally underrated as a writer, mostly because he writes mammoth best sellers more often than I clean my downstairs bathroom. Frequency aside, he can write the shit out of things. I had no trouble buying Jake's romance with Sadie, nor his reluctance to kill Oswald without being sure he was guilty, nor the idea that the past doesn't want to be changed. When the big moment came, I felt like the entire universe was at jeopardy, much like I did in The Dark Tower . Speaking of The Dark Tower, there are Stephen King Easter eggs in abundance, like Jake meeting a certain two children in Derry, to the Takura Spirit he sees by the road late in the tale. Remembered a day after reviewing: There's also a Jim Thompson reference in that there's a sign outside Jodie reading Pop. 1280. I even wrote that on a post-it but forgot about it during the intitial review writing process. I like the way King handled time travel, especially this exchange between Jake and Al, which I'm paraphrasing: \"What if you went back in time and killed your own grandfather?\" \"Why the fuck would you do that?\" Another time travel bit I really liked was Jake had to take era-appropriate money with him. A lot of time travel stories neglect that. While I was reading this, my girlfriend, who forcibly recommended the book to me, asked what I would do with a time portal that functioned like this one, returning two minutes after you left no matter how much time you spent in the past. I told her I'd sneak away and take long naps or go on reading vacations for a week or two of subjective time. That's one way to get some serious reading done. I did have a few complaints, though. Jake does some awfully conspicuous things in the past for a guy who's trying to fly under the radar. Also, the aforementioned boner for JFK and his era. I have to think King was looking at the 50's and 60's through rose colored glasses. Food and drink tasting better in the past? Sounds like nostalgia to me. All in all, this was the shortest 900 page book I've ever read and one hell of a read. 4 stars, leaning heavily toward five. I do not envy whichever book I read after this one. ...more Wow. This book is a mess on so many levels I'm not sure where to even begin. First, it's a damn shame that King chose to take what could have been an interesting story centered around the Kennedy assassination and turn it into nothing more than a liberal lovefest worshipping all that is Kennedy and a political diatribe against all that is Republican, conservative and/or religious. I was well aware of King's political views when I read this book, as well as every other King book I've read, but ne Wow. This book is a mess on so many levels I'm not sure where to even begin. First, it's a damn shame that King chose to take what could have been an interesting story centered around the Kennedy assassination and turn it into nothing more than a liberal lovefest worshipping all that is Kennedy and a political diatribe against all that is Republican, conservative and/or religious. I was well aware of King's political views when I read this book, as well as every other King book I've read, but never have his politics so thoroughly suffocated a book as they did here. What's worse is that the book was marketed as a time-traveling thriller when in fact it was just an opportunity for King to trash his political foes and blame them for all that is wrong in the world while at the same time completely ignore historical fact to idolize and worship Kennedy as some kind of peacenik when, in fact, he was not. It's clear that King has absolutely no respect for his conservative readership and doesn't mind crapping all over them when it suits his purpose. Disgraceful. Putting aside the political issues, the book is, structurally, a disaster. Had King bothered to try to tell a cohesive story with compelling characters, he may have been able to overcome the political bias and permitted us to enjoy the story. Alas, no. The characters are flat, one-dimensional and lacking any compelling characteristics (How can you write an 840-page book and have zero character development???) The love story between George/Jake and Sadie is so overwrought with every silly cliche imaginable that you just don't give a damn what happens to either of them in the end. The scenes with George following Oswald drag on and on interminably to the point where I found myself reading quickly just to get past them. The story contains plot twists that are so manufactured and forced that I didn't buy them for a second. And the climax is so rushed, and the ending so schmaltzy and convoluted, that I honestly couldn't wait for it to end. I find it shocking that the same man who wrote The Stand, It, Pet Sematary and other classics penned this disaster. Maybe if King had spent less time focusing on his political views and more time on the execution of the story, we would have had something worthwhile here. Unfortunately, the book reads like a lame, cardboard-cutout \"thriller\" in the vein of hacks like Dan Brown. This is, by far, the worst book Stephen King has ever written, and I've read all but two of them. What a major, major disappointment. Read it at your own risk. ...more Life turns on a dime. I stopped and started 11/22/63 by Stephen King a couple of times- not because it wasn't absolutely wonderful- but because I couldn't seem to give it my undivided attention. I am not really a speedy reader, and 800+ can seem quite daunting to me. When the 50th anniversary of JFK's death was coming up, it seemed like a perfect time to grab this off the shelf once again and dive right in. June 2011 Lisbon Falls, Maine- Jake Epping- a high school English teacher gets a phone call Life turns on a dime. I stopped and started 11/22/63 by Stephen King a couple of times- not because it wasn't absolutely wonderful- but because I couldn't seem to give it my undivided attention. I am not really a speedy reader, and 800+ can seem quite daunting to me. When the 50th anniversary of JFK's death was coming up, it seemed like a perfect time to grab this off the shelf once again and dive right in. June 2011 Lisbon Falls, Maine- Jake Epping- a high school English teacher gets a phone call from Al Templeton- a owner of a not so successful local diner- Al is dying of cancer, doesn't have a lot of time left, and he needs to show Jake something. When Jake arrives at the diner things just don't add up. He just saw Al the day before and he didn't look sick- now he has aged years, lost an impossible amount of weight...and hair, but the impossible turns possible after he is shown a way into the year 1958 through the diner's kitchen. Al wants Jake to finish what he started- Save JFK- in doing that a domino effect may happen making the world a better place- no assassination of John could mean no assassination of his brother Bobby, or Martin Luther King...no race wars...a quicker retreat in Vietnam. The possibilities were endless. Jake's answer is yes. [image error] September 1958 Derry, Maine- Jake Epping- has taken on the identity of George T. Amberson- provided for him by Al. Al has set up ID, a bank account, and has also given Jake some sports trivia (for making bets to keep the money rolling in) and a diary he kept, when he himself was following Lee Harvey Oswald before his mission was cut short. Jake/George has a few years to kill in the past before he heads to Dallas in 1963, so he has decided to do a little experiment of his own first. An adult student of his- Harry Dunning- (a disabled janitor in present day Lisbon Falls) had a horrible thing happen to him in his childhood that Jake would like to prevent, so he travels to Derry- 1958 to see what happens in present day- 2011, when he interferes in the past. My explanation of 11/22/63 probably seems quite confusing, but don't let that stop you from reading it. Stephen King does a fabulous job of making everything very easy to understand as long as you do what you must always do to enjoy Stephen King...suspend disbelief and let yourself get caught up in the fantasy. This is definitely my favorite King book since the 80's. Don't expect a horror novel though...if you do you will be thoroughly disappointed. Another bit of advice- You may want to pick up Stephen King's \"It\", and read it first. The first quarter of 11/23/63 takes place in Derry 1958. I am really glad I knew of the events that happened there in 1957-58 already. ...more \u201cHey, you don\u2019t belong here.\u201d As my eyes adjusted to the bright sunlight, I saw an old man with a blue card stuck in his hat. He was glaring at me. My head was pounding as if I had just gone fifteen rounds with Randall \u201cTex\u201d Cobb and my stomach was doing those same flip flops it does just after eating at Subway. I still had the presence of mind to say: \u201cBite me, pops, I got some time-stream mischief to do.\u201d \u201cWhy would I want to bite you and watch you don\u2019t stomp on butterflies,\u201d he shouted at me. \u201cTa \u201cHey, you don\u2019t belong here.\u201d As my eyes adjusted to the bright sunlight, I saw an old man with a blue card stuck in his hat. He was glaring at me. My head was pounding as if I had just gone fifteen rounds with Randall \u201cTex\u201d Cobb and my stomach was doing those same flip flops it does just after eating at Subway. I still had the presence of mind to say: \u201cBite me, pops, I got some time-stream mischief to do.\u201d \u201cWhy would I want to bite you and watch you don\u2019t stomp on butterflies,\u201d he shouted at me. \u201cTalk to the hand, geezer. I\u2019ve gonna get me a whole bag of penny candy and nickel chocolate bars. And how much do hookers cost in 1958? I heard it\u2019s around five dollars? Is that true?\u201d Focus, Jeff! After getting loaded and laid, the first order of business is a trip up to upstate New York where, I\u2019m going to bury a care package filled with tools and explosives in a certain person\u2019s basement. Daddy-o was undeterred by my 21st century attitude, smarts and good looks and remained standing there, blocking my way. \u201cWhat the hell is wrong with you, son? Are you with the fellow that just came by here riding on some lawn mowing contraption? You can\u2019t go messing around with the past. It\u2019s obdurate. You fool with it and it\u2019ll kick you in the nutsack\u201d Lawn-mower? \u201cI hear they serve up some mean pound cake here, Pops\u201d, I said with a wink. \u201cAnd you never answered my question about the hookers!\u201d \u201cYou change the past and the kit and kaboodle will come apart. It\u2019ll be a disaster.\u201d The card in his hat started to turn purple. Fascinating. Pfft! \u201cThat\u2019s an old wives tale, hep-Daddy. I\u2019m not going to step on butterflies or teach English classes or remake history. I\u2019ll spend some time here and head on back.\u201d But not before I got rich. My plan was to head to New York City, get a job with Marvel Comics, befriend Stan Lee, shed a tear when he has a timely, supervised, fatal \u201caccident\u201d, create characters worth billions, hire a slick lawyer to protect \u201cmy\u201d creations, set up an off-shore bank account for my royalties, and then it\u2019s back to the future and collect my riches and swim naked in the cash, but not before feeding my mutant cat, Musty. Maybe I could copyright the zombie apocalypse and every Beatles tune while I\u2019m at. And make sure Aquaman never sees the light of day\u2026. I handed him a buck. \u201cHere Dads go buy yourself some Mad Dog. Have they invented that yet?\u201d I shoved him out of the way and tried to decide on what to do first: feed myself or satisfy the lil\u2019 time traveler. The past is obdurate my ass. Three and one half stars Nutshell review: Beyond the whole silly premise that a time portal exists in a diner pantry, this book had some game in the beginning; the ending was a thing of beauty. The middle was saggy and overcooked. The whole book was like lying in a hammock \u2013 your head and toes will be comfy, but your bloated rear end will be hanging down almost dragging in the dirt. Not prime King, but a decent, and at times, engaging read. ...more Is it just me or is this one missing the most obvious release date tie in ever? \"Sometimes a cigar is just a smoke and a story's just a story.\u201d I went with the audio version of this book and let me tell you, it's worth the entire thirty dollars and change. A gentleman by the name of Craig Wasson narrates 30+ hours of listening, and, He Nails It ! During the first two hours, I was hanging on every word and did not get up from my chair; not even to pee. \"Continence pants are funny, of course they are. Unless, of course, you're the one who needs them.\" Stephen King's books never \"Sometimes a cigar is just a smoke and a story's just a story.\u201d I went with the audio version of this book and let me tell you, it's worth the entire thirty dollars and change. A gentleman by the name of Craig Wasson narrates 30+ hours of listening, and, He Nails It ! During the first two hours, I was hanging on every word and did not get up from my chair; not even to pee. \"Continence pants are funny, of course they are. Unless, of course, you're the one who needs them.\" Stephen King's books never lack in the character department, in fact, they shine like a neon sign. Part of this has to do with King's extreme talent for writing believable dialogue. Al Templeton was my favorite character. Unfortunately, he was only in the first half of the story. The voice of character Harry Dunning also shines through. Harry reminds me of an older version of Duddits from Dreamcatcher (seen and loved the movie; never read the book but plan to one day soon). The book lags somewhat in the middle, but I think that's the norm with most books over 500 pages in length. Like most SK books, this book is full of pop culture and funny sayings and quotes. I come across one\u2014and, stupid me\u2014I forgot to bookmark it. It was a sarcastic comment about the 'Waltons' taking too long to say goodnight. Anyway, I began laughing so hard. My hubby, who was sitting across the room from me watching the hockey game, starting giving me the evil eye. That's okay though. He's not a reader. He wouldn't understand. \u201c'You need to get in the Baptist way of churching, son. Ours welcomes newcomers. You can take this place, and maybe some Sunday you can come with me n my wife.' 'Maybe so,' I agreed, reminding myself to be in a coma that Sunday. Possibly dead.\u201d I recommend this book to anyone who appreciates exceptional writing and a well-constructed story. This book is for history buffs, those who enjoy reading about small towns, JFK advocates, conspiracy theory enthusiasts, and those intrigued by the concept of time travel. Anyone who's never picked up an SK novel due to the usual sterotype: Stephen King only writes horror novels, might want to give this book a try. When it's all said and done, 11/22/63 is a love story; a concept for which in all likelihood shocked many readers\u2014I know it surprised the hell out of me. \u201cGood. You\u2019re not getting rid of me. Let me repeat: not. I\u2019m going. If you won\u2019t let me into your Chevy, I\u2019ll follow you in my Beetle.\u201d Fan of Stephen King or not, 11/22/63 is a must read for everyone. ...more ALL THE STARS AND ALL THE FEELS! I have delayed writing this review for couple of days because I couldn\u2019t let this novel go. Mr. King proves once again that he is master storyteller, knows how to pay attention to details and is extremely rich with words. Whenever I finish book as great as this one (and it is not very often), I question my previous 5 stars ratings. Some of them simply can\u2019t compare with book like 11/22/63 because it is in its own category of awesomeness. 11/22/63 has this special s ALL THE STARS AND ALL THE FEELS! I have delayed writing this review for couple of days because I couldn\u2019t let this novel go. Mr. King proves once again that he is master storyteller, knows how to pay attention to details and is extremely rich with words. Whenever I finish book as great as this one (and it is not very often), I question my previous 5 stars ratings. Some of them simply can\u2019t compare with book like 11/22/63 because it is in its own category of awesomeness. 11/22/63 has this special something that turns a good book into an unforgettable one. I wholeheartedly recommend to everyone! ...more I never got to know my grandfather very well. Even though we lived close to each other (his home was just a few streets away from mine), he never visited me and I rarely visited him. He was a man who mostly kept his thoughts to himself and rarely displayed emotions to others. His small apartment that he shared with grandmother was full of nostalgia; a very old trimline telephone with a receiver which looked like a tube and the calls sounded like they were coming from one; a small musical box, wi I never got to know my grandfather very well. Even though we lived close to each other (his home was just a few streets away from mine), he never visited me and I rarely visited him. He was a man who mostly kept his thoughts to himself and rarely displayed emotions to others. His small apartment that he shared with grandmother was full of nostalgia; a very old trimline telephone with a receiver which looked like a tube and the calls sounded like they were coming from one; a small musical box, with a ballerina who danced when you wound it up; many old photographs, colors varying from faded sepia to black and white. He was an amateur photographer and painter, and his paintings hung on the walls. I spent one summer with him and grandmother in their small cottage, which remembered both world wars. There was no indoor plumbing and you had to pull water in a bucket from an old well. The house was full of bullet holes through which wind howled throughout the night; I had to pull my blanket up to my chin to keep warmth, and to keep it from being eaten because there were mice in the house which liked to nibble on it, and judging by the sound they made outside crickets must have been the size of small dogs. Good thing it had electricity; there was an old Russian monochrome TV set with rabbit ears, which could capture a channel and a half. My grandmother spend her days listening to the catholic radio station, and my grandfather spent his repairing his old Wartburg in the shed which had all sorts of tools hidden, from small hammers to a big and rusty saw. The neigbor's dogs yapped and ran after one another, and I wandered from one settlement to another, hiding and playing spy in the tall grass, staring at the enormous tractors and harvesters, most liking to go to a nearby pond and paddle in the water. Sometimes I carried an old inflatable mattress on my back, which I spent hours pumping air into and then i dragged it onto the water and reclined on it, enjoying the sun and silence. I have always been drawn to places where I have not lived, the strange houses and neigborhoods. I always wondered how it would be to live in times before my birth, in a different era, in a different place. With different technologies, different culture, different people. I spent hours watching old American movies at TCM when I was a boy, the noir classics from the 20's and 30's. I saw movies from the 50's and 60's; they portrayed a world long gone, and one which was not coming back. I have not been excited for anything Stephen King wrote for a while. Sure, I've read all of his classic contributions to contemporary culture several times: Salem's Lot , The Shining and the monstrous epic of The Stand , both the original and the restored version. Different Seasons , a great collection of novellas camed a bit later, as did The Talisman , on which he collaborated with Peter Straub. And then my personal favorite, IT , which I loved because it's his most nostalgic one, and in a way most brave. A true monster of a book, IT is probably his finest achievement when it comes to holding a long, complex narrative together and conveying the dreamlike quality of childhood, in that time long gone which I longed for. Aside from the gem of Hears in Atlantis and the Dark Tower saga, his later works did not affect me in that way that these older did. Maybe it was me who got older, and maybe it was him who changed? Maybe we both did? I don't know. It's not that they were poor; I have fond memories of Insomnia , which didn't put me to sleep and i really liked The Green Mile , but then who didn't. But I longed for something which would revive the kid in me and make me turn the pages deep into the night, which was what I did when I first started reading him. Cell was okay; Blaze was good but it was an old novel from the 70's, only published now, and Listey's Story and Duma Key I enjoyed but would really par down in places. Under The Dome was plugged as the next The Stand , and while size-wise it certainly was, the content left a lot to be desired in that department. So, when 11/22/63 was first announced I paid no heed to it, and when it was released I started reading without much expectation. Which changed quickly. I was drawn into the story from the very beginning, thanks to the first person narration, which is convincing and gives an intimate perspective to things. As you know, this novel deals with a schoolteacher traveling back in time to prevent the assasination of JFK; he is convinced to do it by his friend, who owns a diner and has discovered a wormhole in his pantry which leads back to 1958. Science Fiction buffs need to lay down their expectations; that's all there is to the time travel aspect of this story, as Jake Epping (that's the name of the hero) falls into 1958 like Alice fell down into a rabbit hole. But what wonders came after the fall. Unlike the biblical one, Jake is not expulsed out of eden; he feels strange at first, but then he realizes that he enjoys his new surroundings. Although the novel never quite reaches the intimate quality of IT , the time period is wonderfully presented and covered; along with Jake, I felt his wonder seeping through the pages, Enormous cars which could be filled up with gas for two dollars; rich beer and food, people of the long ago with their hospitality and manners. Everyone smokes, and the internet and cell phones have a long time to be invented (can you imagine?). There are wonderful easter eggs tying to King's past novels, which are small, but very rewarding. I really loved the first 3/4 and consider them to be the finest storytelling Stephen King has written in recent years, but the novel loses steam in the last quarter. I don't want to spoil anything, but by the time the pivotal events started occuring, I was ready for it to end, and to give credit it ended just in time, if you'll pardon my pun. But it never quite managed the seamless stream of narrative which defined IT ; the ending events did not bring as big of a bang as I hoped they would. Still, they were skilfully conducted, with the experience of a mature writer who knows what he's doing, and did not left a bad taste in any way. My only complaint is that the taste did not last all the way through, but died down like the one of a chewing gum. You know what I mean? I wanted to the sense of wonder, the experience of haziness and reality as viewed from old reels to last longer, but it felt out of my hands and into history, like a balloon flies into the sky from the hand of a child who had let it go by accident. I've closed the book satisfied but not swept away, not as much as I hoped to be; I still remember the closing paragraphs to IT which are among the best writing he has done, beautiful but also very sad, full of leave-taking. I hoped for a similar feeling here, and I almost got it. I think the problem lies more with me than with the text, as it will be undoubtedly called as one of his best, and in many cases rightfully so; the sheer amount of research and work to set up this period piece must have been astounding and deserves respect just for that alone. The craftsmanship is fine, as we come to expect. However, I wanted more of the nostalgia, and not just the rosy colored one; I wanted more of the narrator's life in the late 50's and early 60's. These are the best elements of the novel for me - I would happily skip the minutia of Oswald's life for pages on the world that's not here anymore. I would love more focus on the life of the narrator, as ultimately this is his story, and his alone. The events happen to him, and not the other way round. Still, this monster of a book is well worth reading, and I would recommend it to anyone with enough time on their hands. It does a great job at showing the times past, and offers at intimate look at how one man can change the history of the whole world. Whatever its flaws, it offers a plentiful of rewards and a rich reading experience. A keeper and a good novel for long winter evenings. ...more", "Title": "11/22/63"},
