{"Comments": "If you can\u2019t cope with the idea of death without a hearty dose of euphemism \u2013 this probably isn\u2019t going to be the book for you. When I became an archivist at the City of Melbourne a very dear friend of mine became a technician at the city Morgue. I figured at the time he had watched a couple of episodes too many of Quincy M.E. and that he would find a normal job eventually. It is probably 15 years since I stopped being an archivist \u2013 my friend still cuts up dead people for a living. A few weeks a If you can\u2019t cope with the idea of death without a hearty dose of euphemism \u2013 this probably isn\u2019t going to be the book for you. When I became an archivist at the City of Melbourne a very dear friend of mine became a technician at the city Morgue. I figured at the time he had watched a couple of episodes too many of Quincy M.E. and that he would find a normal job eventually. It is probably 15 years since I stopped being an archivist \u2013 my friend still cuts up dead people for a living. A few weeks after he started work I asked him how it was all going and he replied, \u201cGood, yeah, I can even eat spaghetti now.\u201d Sometimes it is best not to ask. This book is a bit of a career guide for those of us who are post-life. There are a remarkable number of interesting things one can get up to after life. Many of these choices are presented in this book in an up-close-and-personal way that I particularly enjoyed. I\u2019m a fairly robust character, but there were many moments when I made involuntary noises during this book. The swallowed fly was a case in point and by far the worst. The noise I made was loud enough and distressing enough for my daughters to ask what was the matter \u2013 they didn\u2019t ask again. Part of my friend\u2019s job involves removing people\u2019s brains \u2013 this is also described in some detail here. The problem is that once the brain has been removed you can\u2019t really pop it back from whence it came \u2013 so instead it is placed in the chest cavity. This means the head needs to be \u2018packed\u2019 and generally this is done with newspaper. One of the decisions made by those putting you back together again is which newspaper would seem most appropriate for you. (I assume in these days of obsessive Orwellian Double-Speak the corpses are called clients or customers or something equally ridiculous \u2013 although I wish it was after Waugh and they were called Loved Ones.) I really don\u2019t mind what happens to me once I\u2019m dead \u2013 I figure I\u2019m going to be busy enough explaining to God why He doesn\u2019t exist to be worried about what happens to my body \u2013 but I must admit that spending eternity with my head stuffed with a Murdoch rag does seem to be a punishment disproportionate to any crime I have committed whilst alive. ...more <---A>Mary Roach</---A> writes about what happens when you donate your body to science.<---F> Hilarity ensues</---F>. Well, maybe not hilarity but it is a good dose of edutainment. Way back around the time the earth's crust cooled and life spread across the planet,<---M> late 1994 or early 1995</---M>, I should think, I visited a chiropractic college with the rest of my Advanced Biology class. This trip was memorable to me for three reasons: 1) It was the first time I experienced an excruciating caffeine withdrawal headache 2) It was th Mary Roach writes about what happens when you donate your body to science. Hilarity ensues. Well, maybe not hilarity but it is a good dose of edutainment. Way back around the time the earth's crust cooled and life spread across the planet, late 1994 or early 1995, I should think, I visited a chiropractic college with the rest of my Advanced Biology class. This trip was memorable to me for three reasons: 1) It was the first time I experienced an excruciating caffeine withdrawal headache 2) It was the first time I saw a human cadaver 3) I smoked five of my classmates playing pool in the student lounge at lunch. Obviously, #2 is the one pertinent to this review, although I am still quite proud of #3. The cadaver I saw had its face covered and its skin looked shriveled, somewhat like beef jerky. My 17 year old mind briefly wondered where the man had come from before my hormone-fueled brain returned my attention to the nubile young ladies in the room. Anyway, let's get down to review business. Mary Roach manages to take a subject that give many people the heebie-jeebies, donating one's remains to science, and makes it humorous at times. She covers such topics as learning surgical techniques via practicing on cadavers, human decomposition, ingesting human remains for medicinal purpose, using corpses in car crash tests, using cadavers for ballistics tests, crucifixion experiments, and even head transplants. While it's not ideal meal-time reading, I didn't find it as stomach churning as some reviewers did. The talk of decomposition and quack remedies of the Middle ages were fascinating and I was really interested in the head and brain transplant experiments. Frankenstein's monster doesn't seem as unrealistic as it did yesterday. Apparently, necrophilia is only illegal in 16 states. Imagine if that was one of your criteria when choosing a place to live. \"Honey, I'd love to live in Florida but then we couldn't have our sexy parties...\" Actually, the funeral bits were also pretty enlightening. Did you know they have to suture the anus shut to keep nastiness from leaking out during a funeral? Or that dead people can fart from gas trapped in their intestines? Or that they insert special caps underneath the eyelids to keep them from suddenly opening? Fascinating stuff. Stiff is a very interesting read for those interested in what happens when you donate your body to science, softened somewhat by Roach's sense of humor. Three easy stars. ...more In my nonfiction phase during the year, I grabbed this one and after finishing it, regretted its purchase. The book is about medical use of corpses and the human body, present-day and in the past. The subject matter is extremely interesting, and some of the methods, tests, and history behind human body experiments is worth the read. The book makes you want to be an organ donor, or want to donate your body to medical science. The problem is that the author is one of the WORST writers I have ever In my nonfiction phase during the year, I grabbed this one and after finishing it, regretted its purchase. The book is about medical use of corpses and the human body, present-day and in the past. The subject matter is extremely interesting, and some of the methods, tests, and history behind human body experiments is worth the read. The book makes you want to be an organ donor, or want to donate your body to medical science. The problem is that the author is one of the WORST writers I have ever read to the extent that every time I picked up the book I got angry. I only finished the book because my OCD made me finish it because I\u2019d already started it. The two irritating aspects of the book are: 1) Roach would spend a few pages describing something fascinating and then ruin it all by throwing in the snarkiest comment imaginable. For example, she\u2019d discuss how feet are used by scientists, and then throw in a comment about her stinky socks. 2) A few years ago, a friend saw a movie about the roads to concentration camps at the Tribeca Film Festival that was atrocious because the director stuck himself into the film and made himself part of the story. That\u2019s what this author does for the whole friggin\u2019 book. Just awful. ...more First read of 2017 complete! It was a good one - 4.5 stars. Who knew that a book about what happens to our bodies after we die could be so interesting. This book covers everything to the horrific to the incredibly fascinating. This book may not be for the squeamish, but I think Roach did a great job combining information and humor in a respectful manner to make it more easily accessible to a wider audience. I recently helped to prepare a funeral plan for my Mother. She is still alive, but it was s First read of 2017 complete! It was a good one - 4.5 stars. Who knew that a book about what happens to our bodies after we die could be so interesting. This book covers everything to the horrific to the incredibly fascinating. This book may not be for the squeamish, but I think Roach did a great job combining information and humor in a respectful manner to make it more easily accessible to a wider audience. I recently helped to prepare a funeral plan for my Mother. She is still alive, but it was suggested that we prepare ahead of time to make sure that all wishes are met and there is no scrambling when the event happens to figure out what is wanted and where the money comes from - less stressful for all! After reading this book, I am not saying I will go back and change any of our decisions, but it definitely gave me a lot of thinking points I would not have considered and may have had an affect on how my decision making went if I had read this before the planning took place. After death - the inanimate body lives on and something has to be done with it - read this if you want to know more! Side note - This is my second Mary Roach (I also read Gulp: Adventures on the Alimentary Canal ) and I liked this one a bit better. ...more Mary Roach details a lot of uses for human cadavers in this book, but she missed a major one. As Weekend At Bernies taught us, you can always use the corpse of your boss to scam your way into a free weekend at a beach house. That scientific research is all well and good, but there\u2019s nothing in here at all about the best ways to simulate a life like corpse for your own selfish purposes. I learned more from Andrew McCarthy than I did reading this! Ah, but seriously folks\u2026 This is the second book I\u2019 Mary Roach details a lot of uses for human cadavers in this book, but she missed a major one. As Weekend At Bernies taught us, you can always use the corpse of your boss to scam your way into a free weekend at a beach house. That scientific research is all well and good, but there\u2019s nothing in here at all about the best ways to simulate a life like corpse for your own selfish purposes. I learned more from Andrew McCarthy than I did reading this! Ah, but seriously folks\u2026 This is the second book I\u2019ve read by Roach, and I admire the way that she can take touchy and gross subjects like corpses in this one or human feces in Packing for Mars , treat them seriously but still manage to keep a sense of humor about them. While she always has one eye on the science, she never uses it to shield out the normal human responses, and this allows her to provide a clear eyed account of the uses and disposal of the dead. (One of my favorite parts involved Roach asking someone how heads were removed from cadavers for surgical practices and was told that one woman in the lab removed them all. She later met the woman who actually did the chopping and Roach admits that all she could think was, \u201cYou cut off heads!!\u201d) So we get treated to a gory set of stories about how science uses corpses in a variety of ways including the study of impacts for the auto industry, how a brain-dead woman\u2019s organs are removed by a transplant team, and a field of bodies left to rot for forensic research. We also get an overview of how science has used or misused bodies to advance both legitimate research and outright quackery in the past. There\u2019s also a long section reflecting on the best way to dispose of human remains since traditional burials and cremations are costly, environmentally harmful and wasteful. While I found this really interesting and enjoyed Roach\u2019s writing and approach, there were times when this book completely disgusted me, and I\u2019ve got a pretty high tolerance for gore. One section about the history of various mad scientists grafting severed heads of dogs and monkeys onto other dogs and monkeys and actually managing to keep them alive for some time was almost too much, and I kind of wished she would have left that chapter out. Still, this was a really interesting book. I just wouldn\u2019t try to eat a plate of lasagna while reading it. ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ \u201cCadavers are our superheroes: They brave fire without flinching, withstand falls from tall buildings and head-on car crashes into walls. You can fire a gun at them or run a speedboat over their legs, and it will not faze them. Their heads can be removed with no deleterious effect. They can be in six places at once.\u201d If you know me, you already know that I have a different sort of relationship with the dead. You know, the kind where y Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ \u201cCadavers are our superheroes: They brave fire without flinching, withstand falls from tall buildings and head-on car crashes into walls. You can fire a gun at them or run a speedboat over their legs, and it will not faze them. Their heads can be removed with no deleterious effect. They can be in six places at once.\u201d If you know me, you already know that I have a different sort of relationship with the dead. You know, the kind where you dress them up . . . and play offensive hilarious games with them . . . Obviously once I heard about Stiff it had to go right to the top of my TBR. In all honesty, I was expecting something just a smidge more entertaining than my high school biology book. You know, the kind of book only a morbid weirdo like myself could truly enjoy. To say I was pleasantly surprised is the understatement of the year. Most of us are already familiar with the potential a cadaver has to continue on after his expiration date . . . Stiff takes it to a whole new level, covering just about every potential \u201ccareer\u201d one can have after death . . . ^^^^ Yes, please. As well as tackling everything from burial to composting as a potential \u201cdisposal\u201d method. Not to mention dealing with the more taboo subjects that relate to the dead . . . As a bonus, all of the above subject matter was written about with such charm and humor that I found myself LOLing for real at times. Mary Roach is the type of gal I\u2019d like to have a drink with. Not only was she able to write about \u201cstiffs\u201d with a sense of humor, she also shamelessly owned up to her own oddities . . . \u201cI ask whether he thinks it\u2019s bad that I like the smell, which I don\u2019t really, or maybe just a little. He replies that it is neither bad nor good, just morbid.\u201d If reading a \u201csmart people book\u201d (a/k/a non-fiction) is something you\u2019d like to do more of, <+++>Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers</+++> is one I\u2019d highly recommend. ...more I bought this book when I first taught my class that has a foresnic anthropology component. I thought I could pick out a chapter of this book to assign to them, and it would be a nice, informative, lay-person account that would be entertaining, yet informational. However, due to time constraints, I never got around to reading the book. In that time, several people have borrowed and returned this book to me, so my copy is a bit tattered and dog-eared, as if I'd read it many times. I can safely sa I bought this book when I first taught my class that has a foresnic anthropology component. I thought I could pick out a chapter of this book to assign to them, and it would be a nice, informative, lay-person account that would be entertaining, yet informational. However, due to time constraints, I never got around to reading the book. In that time, several people have borrowed and returned this book to me, so my copy is a bit tattered and dog-eared, as if I'd read it many times. I can safely say, having read it once, that I will not be going back to read it again. Stiff is a non-fiction, \"science\" writing book. Roach chronicles the different processes that happen to a human being after it dies. Each chapter tackles a different possible outcome for a person's corpse. She goes through chapters about anatomy labs, decay, crash-test and military trials (for safer vehicles, or more effective bullets), plane crashes, transplants, burial and cremation, and even cannibalism. The material for this book is endlessly fascinating and I feel like it has a lot of potential. That being said, I find Mary Roach's style of writing intensely irritating, which took away from the overall effectiveness of the narrative. Much of her writing is sort of falsely funny, as if she is very intentially trying to inject humor into a situation through the use of ridiculous asides that do nothing to add information or further her point. She also continually resorts to forced bathroom and genetalia jokes in order to articially infuse the book with humor. On many occasaions, she asks the scientists she interviews about what happens specifically to penile tissues. She then describes the patient if annoyed air that some of the scientists take with the assumption that the readers will all be tittering with her on her side. Well, I'm sorry, I'm with the scientists. I find that kind of thing immature and irrtating, like many of the jokes in this book. The last way that she commonly tries to inject humor into her writing is by pretending squeamishness for the sake of her readers. What kills me about this is that there are parts of the book that are legitimateuly funny, where the humor is not forced but just found in the situation. There is a description of her first visit to a very small town in China that strong reminded me of some of my problems getting around in small towns in various African countries. There is also a funny commentary about a woman who volunteers to get multiple pap smears so that future ObGyns can practice (a job that I hope pays very. very. well). Additionally, there is some really interesting information in this book. I knew a lot about the use of bodies to determine what happened in plane crashes and the sort of things that happen in gross anatomy labs. But did you know that males and females have slightly different EEG profiles? And, after a heart transplant, those do not change. Also, did you know that there have been many proven ways to make riding in aircrafts safer, including shoulder harness seat belts, more emergency exits, sprinkler systems and side airbags for impact, but none of these are being implemented because the airlines don't want to have to incur the extra costs? There are plenty of little factoids like these that are quite interesting. The bottom line for me was that there was simply not enough actual science in this science book. I've read plenty of popular science books that have managed to do a much better job walking the line between entertainment for the layperson and providing good information. As far as book that tell stories about cadavers, I would recommend any of the popular science books by William Bass or Douglas Ubelaker over this book as both fascinating and more informative. ...more There was not a single zombie in this whole book!! Mary Roach writes books about some interesting topics. This is the one that most interested me, though on finishing I realized that I also had \"Packing For Mars,\" which I think will likely get read sooner rather than later, now that I've finally got around to reading one of her books and have really enjoyed her style. She brings a bit of levity and a healthy sense of the absurd to topics that most of us can go a full lifetime avoiding even thinki There was not a single zombie in this whole book!! Mary Roach writes books about some interesting topics. This is the one that most interested me, though on finishing I realized that I also had \"Packing For Mars,\" which I think will likely get read sooner rather than later, now that I've finally got around to reading one of her books and have really enjoyed her style. She brings a bit of levity and a healthy sense of the absurd to topics that most of us can go a full lifetime avoiding even thinking about. I find myself having to be a bit of a messenger-killer though, because, while I get that she was being thorough in reporting on the history of anatomy and scientific discovery and experimentation regarding the body, all of the stuff about the animal experimentation just really bothered me. Like, a lot. I think that I'm already like 92.3% misanthropic, and all the \"Hey, let's take the head off of a monkey and graft it onto a different monkey and see what happens!\" stuff probably raised that to like 95.9%. If I had to guesstimate. I can understand if we're trying to understand and DO something. Experimentation is needed. Practicing some things, like grafting together veins and arteries to reattach limbs or do transplants, is vital, and since people are generally hesitant about being the guinea pigs... real guinea pigs are needed. I can understand that. But some of these experiments are just... frivolous god-playing, in my opinion. It doesn't serve a purpose in the long run, for people or animals, and is just done because it can be, because there's no compelling reason not to, and they were \"doing science\". Then there are some little quirky writing things that kind of annoyed me, like Roach's tendency to get off-track and ramble on about a side topic for a bit too long before getting back to the interesting topic she interrupted with her anecdote or sidebar story. And so, I drop a star for these things. But only one, because the rest of the book is great. There are some insights in this book that really made me stop and think. For instance, laws against necrophilia in Nevada were more complete and specific than rape laws in the US: \u201cThe carnal knowledge of a female forcibly and against her will.\u201d Until January 1, 2013 that is, when rape was redefined as: \u201cPenetration, no matter how slight, of the vagina or anus with any body part or object, or oral penetration by a sex organ of another person, without the consent of the victim.\u201d (Per FBI.gov .) Then there's the statistics of just how man lives can be saved by doing crash test experiments on actual human cadavers. Or how squeamish and prudish people can be about dead bodies. I am not a religious or spiritual person. To me, everything in this book related to putting cadavers to use made perfect sense. I've been an organ donor for as long as I've had the ability to check the box when renewing my drivers license. If I die, take anything useful and give it to anyone who needs it. I can't use them anymore, why should I keep them? Sentimentality? I've had discussions with people who say that they'd \"never!\" check that organ donor box on their license because EMTs and doctors \"won't try as hard\" to save organ donors. To which I call bullshit. They aren't going to check your ID for the indicator before deciding whether to give you CPR, and they probably aren't the ones who would determine whether your squishy insides are even viable options for donation. Plus, the purpose of that kind of transplant would be to save a life, right? And your life is right there, waiting to be saved, while a potential organ recipient is a spot on a list and probably not bleeding out in front of them. Check the organ donor box. They'd try to save you if you need it. I promise. If they don't, haunt the shit out of them. Anyway, as I was saying. In my mind, it makes no sense at all for a perfectly good body to just rot in a hole somewhere, or be incinerated. It can do something worthwhile. Maybe try out the newest seatbelt or airbag technology, or safety harness gear for people who work on insanely high platforms, like the guys who have to fix antennas on building or something. Or maybe they could be used for teaching the next crop of doctors how to actually perform the procedures they are supposed to do. If they botch it their first time out (or second or third or fourth), wouldn't you want that to be a practice run on a cadaver who isn't going to know or care, rather than on you? The section about the soul was lost on me, because, well, as I said, I'm not much of a spiritual type person. I don't really give that kind of thing much thought. That being said, I think it's pretty silly to claim traits have \"followed\" an organ from the donor to the recipient. The claim that a donor heart made the recipient into a sex fiend or made the recipient feel like a teenager and want to drive fast cars and listen to loud music is pretty outlandish. My theory is that the recipient has just been given a healthy heart (or whatever) and suddenly has a new lease on life, and wants to make the most of it. The simplest explanation is usually the right one. Another thing that I thought was kind of silly was Dr. Oz being quoted several times in this book. As an expert, not a TV celebrity quack. I'm sorry, I live in 2015. I just can't take this guy seriously. He's a joke who got rich on daytime TV by exploiting people and selling them bullshit and lies. If he was an actual legit doctor at some point, he's lost any credibility he might have had. I was actually really surprised to see his name in this book. It seemed so rational otherwise. But this, really?: \"[L]ife and death is not a binary system. [...] In between life and death is a state of near-death, or pseudo-life. And most people don't want what's in between.\" Uhhhh, right, Dr. Oz. If you say so. You're the \"expert\". The section about ingesting human flesh or secretions for health benefits was pretty yucky, but otherwise I didn't think that this book was distasteful or gross at all. I really thought that the anatomy and decomposition research sections were fascinating, as well as the black box death investigator guy. I also learned quite a lot about the funereal business, which probably shouldn't have surprised me as much as it did... but I guess it's just not something that I've had cause to think about (and hopefully won't yet for a while). I actually appreciated the journalistic detachment mixed with first-hand experience that Roach brought to this. It definitely gave it a lot of credibility in my mind. I think she asked good questions, better questions, if maybe a bit different, than I would have asked. All in all, I think that this was interesting and informative, and it's made me want to explore my post-life options a little bit more. There's a lot of them available now, but there still seems to be a stigma about remains being dealt with in non-traditional ways... or maybe that's just because of where I am, with the prevailing Catholic notions in the area. I'd be perfectly happy being composted via an organic burial pod so I'd be tree-food. ...more I really ought to have read this sooner. I'm not sure what happened and why it took me so long to get this information into my brain. This is a book about what happens to dead bodies. It's an older title and some of the information therein has changed (Spoiler alert: there are now six? body farms in the US, I think. And the Swedish lady has not been as instrumental as hoped in burying the dead via compost, more's the pity because I totally want to compost myself! There is currently, however, a wo I really ought to have read this sooner. I'm not sure what happened and why it took me so long to get this information into my brain. This is a book about what happens to dead bodies. It's an older title and some of the information therein has changed (Spoiler alert: there are now six? body farms in the US, I think. And the Swedish lady has not been as instrumental as hoped in burying the dead via compost, more's the pity because I totally want to compost myself! There is currently, however, a woman in CA who is trying to bring body compost to popularity and I am all on board!) but it's still incredibly fascinating to find out what we, in America, do with the all our dead bodies and what have been done to corpses historically, and how our opinions on death and the remains have changed in a rather short period of time. Covered herein: -What your corpse can expect as a medical donation; -What happens when you're buried versus cremated; -Other options available for getting rid of your remains; -What other people have done with their dead throughout history; -And much, much more! Keep in mind, this was written by a journalist and not by someone in the medical or deathical profession so if you're hoping for in-depth anatomy discussions, you may be disappointed. Also, if you're the type who feels death should only ever be treated with the utmost respect and honor, you may want to steer clear as, at times, she is mildly irreverent, which, of course, I loved. Only once did I think she bordered on downright disrespectful and I don't even remember what it was that made me feel that way so, obviously, not a huge deal if you're not easily offended by joking around a bit in regard to death and dead bodies. ...more Laugh out loud funny is the way to go if you want to learn more than you realized might be worth knowing about dead bodies. It made me interested in finding out what else Roach has written. And here are reviews of what we found: ----- Grunt ----- Gulp ----- Packing for Mars ----- Spook Well, I am half way through this and it has turned into a huge disappointment. What started out to be a funny depiction on what happens to donated cadavers, has taken a turn for the horrible. By the 6th or 7th chapter, the author showed what I can only equate to laziness and added commentary on subjects not pertaining to her once appreciated topic. I now find myself skipping over entire pages due to the lack of interest her writing presents and the tangents on which she goes; this I image done f Well, I am half way through this and it has turned into a huge disappointment. What started out to be a funny depiction on what happens to donated cadavers, has taken a turn for the horrible. By the 6th or 7th chapter, the author showed what I can only equate to laziness and added commentary on subjects not pertaining to her once appreciated topic. I now find myself skipping over entire pages due to the lack of interest her writing presents and the tangents on which she goes; this I image done for two reasons 1) She needed filler and 2) She thought that by adding humor to the book that it would deflect some of the gore...not so. It gets 2 stars b/c it started off well, but sadly enough, I may not even finish this one. ***** UPDATE ***** Okay, so I can't really say I finished reading this book, because I didn't. All I can say to sum it up is it sucked. I am that person who cannot put a book down once I have committed myself to a least half of it because I have a hard time leaving things undone, sort of speak. But this book was impossible for me to finish and I cannot understand why it became a best seller. Anyway, save your money and pass this one up. ...more In spite of the macabre topic, Mary Roach must have had a ball doing her footwork for this book. Not happy to glean her information from published sources, Mary travelled extensively to conduct her research, and had doors opened for her that I doubt get opened very often. Let's face it, when your job requires you to work with the dead the average Joe already thinks you're a ghoul, so it follows that you would be very cautious about allowing someone, a reporter no less, to observe you at your wor In spite of the macabre topic, Mary Roach must have had a ball doing her footwork for this book. Not happy to glean her information from published sources, Mary travelled extensively to conduct her research, and had doors opened for her that I doubt get opened very often. Let's face it, when your job requires you to work with the dead the average Joe already thinks you're a ghoul, so it follows that you would be very cautious about allowing someone, a reporter no less, to observe you at your work. I think that her fair and open-minded approach probably broke down barriers very quickly, Mary, you see, is not the squeamish type. She is perfectly willing to stroll around a field of rotting corpses or sniff a shovelful of composting human in order to obtain not only information but sensation and experience. Certainly some work was done in the library - she covers a good deal of the history of the uses and abuses of dead people, with corpses being used for everything from uncomplaining patients for the instruction of cosmetic surgeons to dangling about as test subjects for new military munitions - but the majority of Mary's work was done on site at the labs, clinics and mortuaries where dead people tend to congregate. The result is a fair and honest look at the dead, how we have used them in the past and what we may have to do in the future in order to dispose of the millions of people who will be expiring daily. The book has every right to be sombre. It isn't. In fact, Ms Roach approaches the subject with a form of reverent humor that entertains the reader but does not disparage the departed. This is a respectful and thorough treatment of the topic. I hereby declare that this is one of the best books I have read this year, and I further declare that Ms Roach is one writer I would love to hoist a pint with some day...I have no doubt she could relate many a fascinating anecdote that didn't make it into print. ...more I'm a compulsive buyer of Mary Roach's books. Part of the reason is research for my own books, of course, part of it is fascination, thanks to her astute choice of subjects, and part of it is simply enjoyment, derived from her clear prose and tales well told. In this case, I read Stiff just after my father passed away, so I was trying to make sense of his loss while trying to come to terms with brute reality of death. It helped a great deal, as I anticipated it would, largely down to Roach's sym I'm a compulsive buyer of Mary Roach's books. Part of the reason is research for my own books, of course, part of it is fascination, thanks to her astute choice of subjects, and part of it is simply enjoyment, derived from her clear prose and tales well told. In this case, I read Stiff just after my father passed away, so I was trying to make sense of his loss while trying to come to terms with brute reality of death. It helped a great deal, as I anticipated it would, largely down to Roach's sympathetic and informative tone. It was like being taken through a morgue by a thoughtful friend. ...more 4.5* After giving this some more thought I\u2019ve added to this review. Additions are in bold. Have you ever wondered what happens to the body when it dies? Or how cadavers donated to science are used? Have you ever wondered if embalming keeps your body from ever decaying? These are just a few of the questions covered in this book. I absolutely love Mary Roach\u2019s writing style! She\u2019s hilarious without being disrespectful, and I can\u2019t imagine anyone being able to write about this subject as well as she 4.5* After giving this some more thought I\u2019ve added to this review. Additions are in bold. Have you ever wondered what happens to the body when it dies? Or how cadavers donated to science are used? Have you ever wondered if embalming keeps your body from ever decaying? These are just a few of the questions covered in this book. I absolutely love Mary Roach\u2019s writing style! She\u2019s hilarious without being disrespectful, and I can\u2019t imagine anyone being able to write about this subject as well as she does. She keeps the reader engaged and asks the questions we are all curious about. . .well at least the questions I was curious about. This was a fascinating and at times a disturbing read. If you get nauseous easy this may not be the book for you. This may also not be the book for you if you are an animal lover. There are several sections that discuss experiments on animals \u2013 the same or similar experiments that are being done on cadavers \u2013 that was very difficult for me to read. ...more R, is for Roach 3.5 Stars HUM-ANE: adjective: humane; comparative adjective: humaner; superlative adjective: humanest 1. having or showing compassion or benevolence. \"regulations ensuring the humane treatment of animals\" synonyms: compassionate, kind, considerate, understanding, sympathetic, tolerant; How is it that a species with a history ripe with abuse and mistreatment of animals has come to use a word so similar to that species title to describe the very thing history proves us not to be?! A R, is for Roach 3.5 Stars HUM-ANE: adjective: humane; comparative adjective: humaner; superlative adjective: humanest 1. having or showing compassion or benevolence. \"regulations ensuring the humane treatment of animals\" synonyms: compassionate, kind, considerate, understanding, sympathetic, tolerant; How is it that a species with a history ripe with abuse and mistreatment of animals has come to use a word so similar to that species title to describe the very thing history proves us not to be?! ARROGANCE. The above is just food for thought, not something Roach broaches in <+++>Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers</+++> . In this book you will find many different uses for a human body after that body is no longer occupied. And to say it is fascinating is the understatement of the year. While some may call this morbid, I simply found it a scientific, at times humorous, and an extremely interesting read. As a species we have this almost innate fear of death. If you were to do a study of fears you would in fact learn that \u2018Death\u2019 is the most common fear that exists. I find this preposterous, death is inevitable. What we really fear isn\u2019t death itself (at least for the most part); it is the act of \u2018dying\u2019 and the pain and hardship that comes with living in a body you KNOW is failing you. Death isn\u2019t scary, DYING is scary . This book also isn\u2019t about that. ( I should really stop talking about things this book ISN\u2019T about) This book is about the serious scientific advancements that have come about owing to the use of the cadaver. And our history is full of horrible instances of grave-robbing, non-consensual cadaver use and even murder when it comes to furthering science or scientific advancements by using the body of a person who can no longer object. Some of these uses, naturally, are horrifying. Some of the stories and snipits from history are deeply unsettling. There are a couple chapters I wouldn\u2019t advise eating before, after or during (I.e. the one on human cannibalism) but for the most part Roach has a witty, interesting non-fiction that manages to be illuminating and funny at the same time. Now I will answer the question that crosses probably every reader's mind, and certainly crossed (and is shared) Roach's mind, what about you: My answer is similar to hers actually, I will - provided they want them - be at very least an organ donor on this I will firmly stand, to the devil with my family or loved ones' squeamishness if I can save lives. I will however leave the final call on donating my body to science pending my survivors wishes. I will be dead, they will be the ones living with that not me. Category: A Non-Fiction Book ...more Opening paragraph: The way I see it, being dead is not terribly far off from being on a cruise ship. Most of your time is spent lying on your back. The brain has shut down. The flesh begins to soften. Nothing much happens, and nothing is expected of you. If you read this book, you will undoubtedly have many \"ick\" moments (especially in the chapter about eating the dead, but there's also that footnote about necrophilia on page 43...), but you should have even more laugh-out-loud moment, and maybe Opening paragraph: The way I see it, being dead is not terribly far off from being on a cruise ship. Most of your time is spent lying on your back. The brain has shut down. The flesh begins to soften. Nothing much happens, and nothing is expected of you. If you read this book, you will undoubtedly have many \"ick\" moments (especially in the chapter about eating the dead, but there's also that footnote about necrophilia on page 43...), but you should have even more laugh-out-loud moment, and maybe a few bemuse-the-other-bus-riders when you groan and laugh simultaneously, especially if they see the cover of the book. Roach as a writer delights in the subtle twist creeping into the prose, the textual double-take. An excellent example is the first paragraph of Chapter Three: Out behind the University of Tennessee Medical Center is a lovely, forested grove with squirrels leaping in the branches of hickory trees and birds calling and patches of green grass where people lie on their backs in the sun, or sometimes in the shade, depending on where the researchers put them. Isn't it splendid the way she paints the bucolic scene, so typical of an introductory paragraph? Almost like the copy for a university marketing brochure. And then... you remember what this book is about. Roach does occasionally rein in her curiosity, but only with an effort, and only after telling us where she almost took us. By that point, we are usually grateful for the mercy. It is easy to imagine her as a child running into the house with a handful of squirming worms asking Mom \"Are these good for eating? They tickle your tongue! I saw birds feeding them to their babies! Can I feed them to my little sister?\" I think Mary Roach makes the world a more lively place, and I'm glad she writes this stuff. But don't read this book while eating, especially not rice crispies or chicken soup. ...more Mary Roach brings enjoyment to the macabre in this extremely educational book. Everything you wanted (and some things you didn't want to) know about the life of a cadaver. Packed with laugh-out-loud humour and interesting facts on every page, you'll be sad as it reaches the end. So check this book out and learn all about the exciting life your own body could have after death! Stiff is a book that really educated me, in terms of a topic that I was wholly unfamiliar with. Gone are the days when I thought that bodies were either donated to universities, cremated, or buried - there are SO MANY MORE OPTIONS. This book was both a fascinating and gruesome read. Although I wouldn't say I am the most squeamish of people, I did find myself screwing up my face in disgust at particular sections of this book (*cough* cannabalism *cough*). I wouldn't recommend it for people that are Stiff is a book that really educated me, in terms of a topic that I was wholly unfamiliar with. Gone are the days when I thought that bodies were either donated to universities, cremated, or buried - there are SO MANY MORE OPTIONS. This book was both a fascinating and gruesome read. Although I wouldn't say I am the most squeamish of people, I did find myself screwing up my face in disgust at particular sections of this book (*cough* cannabalism *cough*). I wouldn't recommend it for people that are faint of heart, as this might be a bit of an ordeal to get through. I really enjoyed the mix of fact and humour as well as first-hand experience that Mary Roach included in this book. I did find myself grinning or chuckling inwardly at several moments throughout this book - the woman has a fascination with cadaver penises, for real! There was quite a lot of animal cruelty portrayed in this book, which did admittedly make me somewhat uncomfortable. However, I can understand why it was included, because this is a microhistory after all and must stay true to the facts put forward throughout the book. There were also some sections, such as the use of cadavers in ballistics practice, that didn't appeal to me as much and I did find myself zoning out a bit in those sections, but overall I found this a highly entertaining and informative read. This topic may possibly be only interesting for those who are ever so slightly morbid though. ...more I'd never heard about this book before until it came up within a non-book related discussion topic in a group here on GoodReads. Strange how some books just pop out at you. Reading about cadavers - dead bodies, interested my morbid fascination with the dead and death. She writes sensitively, but humorously about what happens to you when you die. If you are considering donating organs or your whole body to science - like I was before even picking this book up, curious, or a family member wants to I'd never heard about this book before until it came up within a non-book related discussion topic in a group here on GoodReads. Strange how some books just pop out at you. Reading about cadavers - dead bodies, interested my morbid fascination with the dead and death. She writes sensitively, but humorously about what happens to you when you die. If you are considering donating organs or your whole body to science - like I was before even picking this book up, curious, or a family member wants to do this and you want to know more - this is a good book to read. It tells you the history of the dead body - how once upon a time people were afraid of being buried alive, the history of how cadavers were once acquired. The usefulness of cadavers and how they have been used. Not just for medicine, but also in testing and improving the saftey of cars, and also by the armed forces testing for other things too. Roach attempts to reduce the stigma that is sometimes built up over the uses of cadavers. It got me thinking, how we seem to be more worried over how we treat the dead then we do the living. We would rather test on a live animal then an already dead, and much more reliable human body part. I think she does this well, without coming across as overly preachy. But maybe that is because I already agree with her. Death is not the end. It has always seemed to me a waste to just die and then get loaded into a furnace to be cremated. I do not want to be cremated. I want to donate my organs to those who need them. I quote this paragraph, because I think it really sums up how I feel - about donating organs and people who oppose it. \"It is astounding to me, and achingly sad, that with eighty thousand people on the waiting list for donated hearts and livers and kidneys, with sixteen a day dying there on that list, that more then half of the people in the position H's family was in will say no, will choose to burn those organs or let them rot. We abide the surgeon's scalpel to save our own lives, out loved ones' lives, but not to save a stranger's life. H has no heart, but heartless is the last thing you'd call her.\" (p. 195) Also, if I do not end up donating the rest of my body to science, then I want to become human compost. I'd never heard of that before this book, but it appeals to me - better then just simply being buried - better to think that a tree or a plant will use my body to fertilise it's flowers and I can become one with nature - go back to the earth instead of being burnt up into useless ashes. ...more Mary Roach didn't strike me as funny or witty, just annoying. She's like the wise ass class clown in the back row, heckling the teacher and distracting everyone from an otherwise fairly decent lecture. Only she's supposed to be the teacher, too. What was her point? To talk about dead bodies or impress herself with her own juvenile jokes? On a professional note, Roach seems awfully distrustful of librarians. Does she really think the circ clerk at a medical library thinks she's freaky for checkin Mary Roach didn't strike me as funny or witty, just annoying. She's like the wise ass class clown in the back row, heckling the teacher and distracting everyone from an otherwise fairly decent lecture. Only she's supposed to be the teacher, too. What was her point? To talk about dead bodies or impress herself with her own juvenile jokes? On a professional note, Roach seems awfully distrustful of librarians. Does she really think the circ clerk at a medical library thinks she's freaky for checking out books on dead people? Does she really think he even cares? Does she really think a librarian is going to mistake her PubMed search as porn and bust her? Too bad, because her \"facts\" like \"a dozen websites say...\" and \"when I googled this I found out...\" make me think she has the research prowess of a cadaver. Roach could use a good librarian, who could help her improve her search skills and also help her find the next open mic night to practice her shtick. Skip this book. Stick to Six Feet Under . ...more Stiff, by Mary Roach, is a book about human cadavers and the curious situations they find themselves in. Well, they didn't find themselves in any situation. They are dead bodies. But Mary Roach found them and this book is the result. While reading this book I paused at halfway and actually asked myself if I wanted to bother finishing it. I have never found myself asking myself this before. I usually stick it out to the bloody, gruesome end. This book, however, just was not interesting. It was not Stiff, by Mary Roach, is a book about human cadavers and the curious situations they find themselves in. Well, they didn't find themselves in any situation. They are dead bodies. But Mary Roach found them and this book is the result. While reading this book I paused at halfway and actually asked myself if I wanted to bother finishing it. I have never found myself asking myself this before. I usually stick it out to the bloody, gruesome end. This book, however, just was not interesting. It was not the hilarious screamfest that I was promised on Amazon reviews. It did not take me into worlds that I had yet to explore. It was simply this: a disappointment. I had heard much about this book before I plucked it off the shelf at Barnes and Noble. It came highly recommended by MeFites and I had seen it referenced many different places around the internet. My first impression was that the author was a periodicals journalist trying to write a book. Each chapter is its own article, at least until she starts weakly trying to tie them together by adding things like, \"But in the next chapter, we see how dead bodies really do push up daisies,\" at the end of chapters. Clearly an afterthought. Also, it may be due to the success of the book when it was initially published, but it just seems to me that almost every topic covered in the book has been recently covered on television or in magazines. Perhaps I read about these things in college. I certainly don't seek out interesting tidbits about cadavers, yet somehow, from somewhere, I was familiar with almost every chapter's subject. This book is not funny. I cannot imagine anyone laughing out loud to this book. It's not that I can't laugh at death or dead people or the situations, it's just that the author tries too hard. The humor is forced. It's not natural. It's like she spent hours trying to describe a lab tech in a funny way. It falls flat. Additionally, the author inserts herself into the action and records her own interviews, including awkward attempts at humor with very serious people. It just makes you cringe and you almost feel embarrassed for her. The end of the book couldn't have come fast enough. Toward the end, she morbidly tries to top each chapter with more disgusting details, more gross descriptions and more sick and twisted happenings. It begins to overpower the little bit of grace and dignity the book started out with. It's almost as if the publishers realized this, because odd, tiny rants about the dignity of deceased persons and the way people handle them are awkwardly inserted into the text. It gets repetitive. In the end, I just plain didn't enjoy this book. The author and her injected awkward humor and odd opinions annoyed me. The book seemed unpolished. Nothing seemed new and different about it. It was just a disappointment. ...more This book has won pages of awards since being published in 2003. I've seen it around forever, but chalked it up as \" not for me\" until it was placed in my hands by my husband who having worked with hip and knee joint replacement surgery and the requisite cadaver research for 30 years still found it pretty darn interesting. And it is actually quite fascinating along with being chock full of information, and just plain entertaining to boot. If you're the pragmatic type like me, and figure that onc This book has won pages of awards since being published in 2003. I've seen it around forever, but chalked it up as \" not for me\" until it was placed in my hands by my husband who having worked with hip and knee joint replacement surgery and the requisite cadaver research for 30 years still found it pretty darn interesting. And it is actually quite fascinating along with being chock full of information, and just plain entertaining to boot. If you're the pragmatic type like me, and figure that once your soul has \"left the building \" you're body is really but a shell that may as well be put to good use in some endeavor to help the living , you'll be surprised by the many ways in which you can do so. Here's where I have to confess that if you know my families medical history , you'll know I have more than a casual interest in more research being done for medical conditions that retain enough mystery even in this day and age to seriously promote the idea of increasing the education of medical professionals , along with helping out fellow health issue sufferers. That's the part I'd already thought about , marking that box for organ donation on my drivers license long ago ( well, back when folks might have wanted them ) but there are so many other things I seriously hadn't thought much about that involve cadaver use. Some of those being crime investigation, public safety , product testing, and the list goes on and on. This is my first read by Mary Roach ( and many say her best !!) and it's pretty impressive that she has taken a subject that many would consider just way too morbid ( and sometimes just plain gross) to read about and turned it into a very thought provoking statement about how the study of the human body has already dramatically affected us all ( penicillin , car airbags, football helmets ) and will continue to for generations to come. You know this already but still , this is absolutely and seriously NOT for even the mildly squeamish or those offended by differing religious/ moral views 5 stars ...more I really, really enjoyed this book but for anyone who might want to read it, there are some caveats: Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook Ever wonder what happens to your body after you die? For most of us, we\u2019re either buried six feet under in a box or cremated and poured into an urn. That being said, there are a few folks who make the decision to donate their mortal vessel to science. In Stiff, Mary Roach explores the world of cadaver research with a humorous, often conversational tone that\u2019s far removed from the dry, overbearing tomes from your high school biology class. I had a bad experience with Mary Roach about two years ago Ever wonder what happens to your body after you die? For most of us, we\u2019re either buried six feet under in a box or cremated and poured into an urn. That being said, there are a few folks who make the decision to donate their mortal vessel to science. In Stiff, Mary Roach explores the world of cadaver research with a humorous, often conversational tone that\u2019s far removed from the dry, overbearing tomes from your high school biology class. I had a bad experience with Mary Roach about two years ago when I took a chance on an audiobook version of Packing for Mars: The Curious Science of Life in the Void . While the subject matter was interesting, the narrator was about as fun to listen to as a seminar on box factories put on by Ben Stein after he woke up from a nap. After making my way through Bill Bryson\u2019s One Summer: America, 1927 a few months ago, I wanted back on the Mary Roach train. I decided to grab one of her more known books, Stiff. Stiff is a fun, informative, albeit morbid experience in which Mary covers a wide variety of uses for the human body after its expiration date. Roach visits a body farm where the departed are studied during various stages of decomposition, a research lab that studies the effects of car crashes on cadaver test dummies and even discusses ill fated head transplant experiments. There are also crucifixion tests, practice patients for surgeons in training and when exactly a person should be considered legally dead and thus available for organ harvesting. Without a doubt, Stiff has definitely renewed my interest in checking our more Mary Roach. I can\u2019t wait for the next time someone brings up dead bodies at a party so I can flex my random cadaver knowledge. Also posted @ Every Read Thing . ...more I usually don't laugh out loud when I read books, but this book had serveral passages that had me giggling. Also, I don't get, \"Grossed out,\" very often, but I had to put this book down once while I was reading and eating lunch. This book has so many interesting tidbits on what happens to our bodies after we die. I was amazed and facinated by the history and current research being done on human cadavars. My parents, much to their children's objections decided long ago to be cremated when the tim I usually don't laugh out loud when I read books, but this book had serveral passages that had me giggling. Also, I don't get, \"Grossed out,\" very often, but I had to put this book down once while I was reading and eating lunch. This book has so many interesting tidbits on what happens to our bodies after we die. I was amazed and facinated by the history and current research being done on human cadavars. My parents, much to their children's objections decided long ago to be cremated when the times comes. I felt squimish about this for years, but after reading this book I have completely changed my thinking on the matter. This book had me thinking about things I hadn't given much thought to before. What happens when your body is donated to science? The chapters on human crash test dummies was dare I say inspiring? Where does the sould reside? The author was witty and sensitive and by the end of the book I felt like we were friends who went on a journey together. I think I've lived in the Northwest too long, because he last chapter titled, \"Out of the Fire, into the Compost Bin,\" ended sounding like not such a crazy idea. You'll have to read to see! Highly recommended! ...more Because it's December 29th, I think I can confidently name this as one of my favorite reads of the year. What happens to us when we die? This is one of the grand mysteries of life, right up there with Where the fuck do all the socks go after you put them in the dryer? I tend to think I'll just go to sleep and never wake up. It's the eternal rest we all dread but sort of look forward to, a hands-in-the-air gesture of I give up . Granted, there are many who feel differently, and it is nice to think Because it's December 29th, I think I can confidently name this as one of my favorite reads of the year. What happens to us when we die? This is one of the grand mysteries of life, right up there with Where the fuck do all the socks go after you put them in the dryer? I tend to think I'll just go to sleep and never wake up. It's the eternal rest we all dread but sort of look forward to, a hands-in-the-air gesture of I give up . Granted, there are many who feel differently, and it is nice to think of the possibility of a fancy afterlife without all of our earthly problems. We have nothing to tell us what will happen to our souls/essence/whatever you call it aside from faith, but the end of our bodies isn't a mystery. At least, it isn't a mystery if you're the morbidly curious type like me. Mary Roach covers the variety of things that happen to human cadavers. We can be anything in death, really - a sawed-off head for plastic surgeons to practice facelifts and nose jobs, the dissection specimen for a new medical student, a crash-test cadaver, an organ donor, a decomposing experiment in a field in Tennessee, a pile of ash, or an embalmed corpse in a casket. You know what I learned from this book? How damn useful cadavers can be. Cadavers, in their many forms, can tell us a lot. The level of decomposition can pinpoint time of death and narrow down a murder investigation. Wound patterns and autopsies can tell us just how a plane comes apart in the air. Open-casket funerals can confirm to loved ones that the deceased is, indeed, deceased and that morticians are really good at making the cadavers look less dead. Sometimes I find it difficult to be that useful as a living, breathing human. Think of the number of lives one cadaver can save through the donation of various organs. Only in death will some be raised to the status of superhero. I kept repeating my \"cadavers are USEFUL\" mantra while reading this, even during the gruesome parts. Yes, Roach details the gore, and yes, it is fascinating. You have the chance to follow her to an embalming and a tour of a research facility consisting entirely of decomposing corpses. Fortunately, Roach has a talent for keeping the mood upbeat and holding the grotesque at bay. When dealing with heavy material like this, it helps to have a narrator with a sense of humor. For those of you with a strong stomach and a healthy curiosity about what happens to our bodies when we die, I highly recommend this book. Cadavers are USEFUL, after all. It's time they start getting credit for it. ...more What should happen to my body when I die? That's a question I rarely, if ever, want to contemplate. The idea that one day I'll cease to exist, at least in this world, is both terrifying and difficult to grasp; it can turn a bright sunny day into a gloomy overcast one, and weigh on a light soul like guilt on a remorseful conscience. So I try to avoid thinking about it altogether, but I can't say I always succeed, for it's an idea that's always hovering there, in the background of my jumbled thoug What should happen to my body when I die? That's a question I rarely, if ever, want to contemplate. The idea that one day I'll cease to exist, at least in this world, is both terrifying and difficult to grasp; it can turn a bright sunny day into a gloomy overcast one, and weigh on a light soul like guilt on a remorseful conscience. So I try to avoid thinking about it altogether, but I can't say I always succeed, for it's an idea that's always hovering there, in the background of my jumbled thoughts\u2014haunting me with menacing persistent and unrelenting cruelty. Yet, strangely, that same hateful idea, on some other times, comforts me like a grim mother tending to her despondent son, promising rest and peace beyond the malady of life. Paradoxically, death is both repulsive and alluring; cruel and merciful; ugly and beautiful. When I wake up in the morning welcomed by a cheerful radiant sun, promising a lively day, the kiss of death would be the most abhorrent thought if it happened to call on the cells of my mind. But fast forward a few hours later, and you might find me lying in bed with my feet still sweaty inside my shoes, dispirited and morose, having been dealt one of life's countless disappointments, wishing with every atom in my body that death would come over and spend the night and lie in bed next to me and embrace me. And when it finally comes\u2014death that is\u2014my body would be mine no more. It would be a vacant lifeless soulless body. A cadaver that, in appearance, would happen to resemble the person that I was. So why do I care so much about what would happen to it? Why do I find it so difficult to detach myself from what is essentially an empty shell? As if I would still be there. As if anything can penetrate the oblivion of death through a carcass and reach into the essence of my soul. To me, it is as clear as a glacial lake that giving away my body is what I should will. Yet, somehow, the idea can't seem to be taking root. There's something preventing it; something, in its core, very human; a barrier of sentimentality. So it seems that if fate would have its way, I would die as I have lived: humanly selfish. ...more Wow, this book was very informative. I learned about practicing surgery on the dead. I wonder if people who donate their body to science know they might end up as practice for a face-lift? Body snatching and other sordid tales from the dawn of human dissection \u2013 interesting. On human decay and what can be done about it \u2013 interesting. Human crash test dummies and the ghastly, necessary science of impact tolerance \u2013 very interesting. When the bodies of the passengers must tell the story of a crash Wow, this book was very informative. I learned about practicing surgery on the dead. I wonder if people who donate their body to science know they might end up as practice for a face-lift? Body snatching and other sordid tales from the dawn of human dissection \u2013 interesting. On human decay and what can be done about it \u2013 interesting. Human crash test dummies and the ghastly, necessary science of impact tolerance \u2013 very interesting. When the bodies of the passengers must tell the story of a crash \u2013 interesting. The crucifixion experiments \u2013 this chapter was disturbing. How to Know If You\u2019re Dead: Beating-heart cadavers, live burial, and the scientific search for the soul \u2013 fascinating. Decapitation, reanimation and the human head transplant \u2013 This chapter was disgusting. There were a lot of horrific experiments done on animals, like giving them multiple heads, cutting them in half and sewing them back together, and doing head transplants. Eat Me: Medicinal cannibalism and the case of the human dumplings \u2013 this chapter was also disgusting. Mary seems to have no problem with it. Remains of the author \u2013 Mary explores different options you can choose for your body after death. Overall, this was a fascinating book and I learned a lot. Mary Roach has a great since of humor and seems pretty fearless. That being said, I have a high-tolerance to body grossness, but not so much for cruelty and animal experimentation. ...more Still is the non-fictional adventure of our author Mary Roach as she investigates and uncovers everything there is to know about cadavers... Yes, you read that right! (CADAVERS!) I learned so much more than I ever thought I needed to know about this topic. How bodies decompose to how to compost with bodies (it's good for your garden!-- WHO knew?) So many cringeworthy moments, and parts that made me gag- I'd encourage not to read this one while you are eating. Overall, a little slow and dry in so Still is the non-fictional adventure of our author Mary Roach as she investigates and uncovers everything there is to know about cadavers... Yes, you read that right! (CADAVERS!) I learned so much more than I ever thought I needed to know about this topic. How bodies decompose to how to compost with bodies (it's good for your garden!-- WHO knew?) So many cringeworthy moments, and parts that made me gag- I'd encourage not to read this one while you are eating. Overall, a little slow and dry in some parts, but an entertaining tidbit nonetheless. ...more 'Stiff' is such a fun read! I recommend the book to people with scientific curiosity and a sense of delight in quirky human behaviors. I do not recommend it for anybody who is remotely squeamish or for very young sensitive people. Mary Roach writes of how people use cadavers as explicit and factual as a pathologist or a medical examiner writing for laymen. Although I liked it, there were times I had to take a break and put it down. Not entirely because of squeamishness, though. I often needed tim 'Stiff' is such a fun read! I recommend the book to people with scientific curiosity and a sense of delight in quirky human behaviors. I do not recommend it for anybody who is remotely squeamish or for very young sensitive people. Mary Roach writes of how people use cadavers as explicit and factual as a pathologist or a medical examiner writing for laymen. Although I liked it, there were times I had to take a break and put it down. Not entirely because of squeamishness, though. I often needed time to process the amazing details of historical and current scientific study and research into anatomy, dying, and decomposition, and the variety of methods of using and processing dead people the author Mary Roach dug up (how many times has a review included that line. ; p ). Mary Roach often uses dry and slapstick humor to discuss the detailed science and pseudo-science and early-century proto-science that people have been doing to corpses for hundreds of years. She also travels around the world to a variety of medical, commercial and environmentalist laboratories who use either corpses and body parts for experimentation. She tackles the folk beliefs and practices from centuries ago, and not so long ago, which required what we would label cannibalism today, but these early cultures felt were either spiritually honoring their dead or curing their diseases. The jokes sometimes are groaners, but I thought they were more than appropriate and in tune with the centuries of human silliness and bizarre but earnest research about dead people mixed in with the mainstream studies. Commercial research has used corpses more than I guessed! Car manufacturers use corpses for impact studies in order to design safe cars. Medical schools need bodies and body parts. Investigators of airplane and other types of crashes often use trauma studies of cadavers to determine likely causes of passenger deaths found after disasters (odd fact - being a male increases survivability because maybe the strongest survive by pushing everyone else out of their way). Military services use studies on corpses who are shot. Sports equipment are designed after throwing baseballs and such at dead people. Cadaver dogs need to train with body parts. Embalming techniques are explained. Researchers even know some of what internal body parts feel pain when hurt (past and present animal studies : O ). Gelatin made from animals is in thousands of commercial products you really don't want to think about because of what gelatin comes from. Illegal uses and past uses of cadavers which are now illegal are touched upon as well (for example, necrophilia!). Then there are the early scientists and doctors who wanted to know where the soul might be living, or who simply wanted to know if it was true guillotined heads lived for awhile after being cut off (view spoiler) [ - they blink for several seconds! Or, sadly, if a transplanted dog's head on another dog would work because if it did, they hoped to transplant a human head onto a braindead body with a still beating heart. Of course, there were the wallets, false teeth, handbags, etc. made from body parts. (hide spoiler) ] Gentle reader, human, dog, pig, cow, and various other animals' poop have played major major major roles in early crackpot medicine for human ailments, wounds and injuries, along with spit, menstrual blood and urine, for centuries, literally, centuries . How in earth did humanity survive these early 'cures'? (view spoiler) [The major ingredient in these medicines and tinctures was usually liquor. People were eager for these elixirs despite the lack of permanent relief, generally. (hide spoiler) ] If you have managed to read this far without your gag reflex engaging, this is a must read! There is a bibliography included. ...more<---C>Mary Roach</---C>", "Title": "Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers"},
