{"Comments": "<+++>The Weight of Silence</+++> \u2013I was drawn by the fabulous title. Keeping secrets is a coping skill we've all used, when taken to the extreme it can be deadly. Silence is this novel\u2019s binding theme, hammered home by her choice to have the main character Calli a selective mute; a theme that lifts it above the slew of other child abduction stories currently on the market. Calli and her best friend Petra go missing in the middle of the night. The suspicion is kidnapping, her alcoholic father the prime susp <+++>The Weight of Silence</+++> \u2013I was drawn by the fabulous title. Keeping secrets is a coping skill we've all used, when taken to the extreme it can be deadly. Silence is this novel\u2019s binding theme, hammered home by her choice to have the main character Calli a selective mute; a theme that lifts it above the slew of other child abduction stories currently on the market. Calli and her best friend Petra go missing in the middle of the night. The suspicion is kidnapping, her alcoholic father the prime suspect; we follow the families in their search for the missing children. Gudenkauf adopts the current trend of telling a story through several points of view, a style she handles with refreshing cohesiveness. She builds strong, multi-faceted characters then ratchet\u2019s the tension between them to high. Calli a surprisingly resilient little survivor; Ben struck a personal cord, the older protective brother every little girl wants - I lucked out and had one. It\u2019s got a swift moving plot and thwarted love thrown in for good measure. Child abuse is an element, but the reader is spared the graphic details. Negatives: Fairly predictable outcome and kinda clunky dialog. What bugged me most was the police investigation, incompetent to the point of silliness. (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [ Seriously, a professional search team doesn't notice the prints of a child being dragged away from her very own front yard? (hide spoiler) ] 3 \u00bd stars for a solid debut. This is finely crafted suspense, my preference over graphic thrillers and motivation to read more of her books. Kept me up half the night anyway. Footnote: As a child the author was hearing impaired, personal experience with the weight of silence. Explains the empathy breathed into Calli's character.<---F> \u201cI ate my words that day</---F>. Actually bit down,<---M> chewed them</---M>, swallowed them and felt them slide down my throat like glass until they were so broken and damaged that there was no possible way that the words could rearrange and repair themselves enough to be spoken\u201d. ...more I wanted to like this book. I really did. It looked very fascinating on the Barnes and Noble top reads table and I waited for 3 months on a 200 person list to get it from the library. But this book was nothing special, and was undeserving of all the hype, in my opinion. The basic plotline has been touched on already...two young girls, (one of who is a selective mute, for reasons unknown to anyone) neighbors and best friends, each go missing one morning and their families and the town sheriff go l I wanted to like this book. I really did. It looked very fascinating on the Barnes and Noble top reads table and I waited for 3 months on a 200 person list to get it from the library. But this book was nothing special, and was undeserving of all the hype, in my opinion. The basic plotline has been touched on already...two young girls, (one of who is a selective mute, for reasons unknown to anyone) neighbors and best friends, each go missing one morning and their families and the town sheriff go looking for them. During the search, each person takes time to reflect on their past and how it led him or her to be where he or she is today. Because I know when my little girl goes missing I'll take time to reminisce about the time I bought my dad a color television set thirty years ago. The story is told from multiple points of view, so right off the bat we know exactly where the two girls are, and how they got there. We don't know if they'll remain safe, or if they'll get back home, but we know they aren't dead, nor are they together, as their families presume. This kind of kills some of the suspense right there. On top of killing the suspense, it's makes the chapters told from the point of view of characters other than the two missing girls seem very boring and slow paced. Why would I bother to read about the parents wringing their hands in worry for pages and pages when I can just flip to the next chapter and find out myself how she is faring? It should have either been told entirely from the point of view of the searchers, or entirely from the girls' point of view, but flipping back and forth is a frustrating technique. Third, except for the missing girls, most of these characters are unlikeable, one dimensional cliches. There is Cally's (the selective mute) father, an abusive alcoholic redneck, Antonia, Cally's mother, who is supposed to be this free spirited wondergirl, but is actually just a selfish twit too lazy and cowardly to protect her children from the emotional and physical abuse their father doles out. None of the other players even get a personality trait, other than \"worried parent\", or \"concerned citizen\". If you don't care about your characters, then you don't care about their problems, and you really don't care to read about them recounting their childhood which is of little relevance to the story at hand. Finally, the big twist at the end, why Cally is mute, was actually revealed thirty or forty pages into the book, I guess the author just thought we might forget about it and wanted to remind us. Seems to me when you know your husband is abusive and your child just stops talking you might think the two might be related, but Antonia lives in denial and is also none too quick on the uptake. The ending is too pat, considering the heavy material, the characters range from bland and inoffensive to downright heinous (and I'm including Antonia in there along with her abusive husband and the pedophile discovered at the end of the book), and the chapters move at a maddeningly slow pace. I would not recommend this book. ...more This one had 4 stars until the end, which totally ruined it. There were some good moments, but all things considered, this reads like it was the author's first book and she has some growing to do. One thing I liked was that, though the author toys with the oh-so-trendy multiple narrator/first person writing in each chapter, the chapters from Calli, a select mute's, perspective were in third person past tense. An interesting choice which bodes well for future writing, but it didn't really play off This one had 4 stars until the end, which totally ruined it. There were some good moments, but all things considered, this reads like it was the author's first book and she has some growing to do. One thing I liked was that, though the author toys with the oh-so-trendy multiple narrator/first person writing in each chapter, the chapters from Calli, a select mute's, perspective were in third person past tense. An interesting choice which bodes well for future writing, but it didn't really play off. Almost every chapter, even the third person Calli chapters, read exactly the same; it's not enough to just change the name on top of the chapter, there needs to be a change of voice. Another thing I liked was that the plot, which pans out over roughly 24 hours, was riddled with flashbacks that let the history of the story unfold along the way. Again, nothing new to the world of fiction writing, but it worked in this instance. While this book is largely a thriller (Will they find the girls? Are the girls together? What happened? Who did it? etc.), it felt more like the weight of silence the title refers to is the weight of unspoken history, particularly among families. The secrets that are kept are (mostly) interesting, relevant, and the bulk of the story. You know from the prologue that at least Calli will be found, which gives you the luxury of watching the characters through the unfolding of the story instead of wondering/worrying about the fate of the missing children. I didn't like that not enough time (in my opinion - especially considering the end) was given to Petra and her family, and I would've liked more from Louis besides the whole unrequited love bit. I also thought the epilogue was dreadful and there were a good amount of places where I encountered writing that was just plain uncomfortable. I don't know if Gudenkauf has written anything prior to/since this book's publication, but this novel indicates a young writer who has a lot of potential to grow into a good storyteller. Her craft needs some polishing and she could use with a better editor, but the meat of the story is solid and her ideas have a lot of potential and beg further exploration. Long story short? Totally not crap, and possibly something I'll re-read if I'm really bored, but nothing earth-shattering or even really to be recommended. ...more Heather, I don't know why I haven't read all of your books?!? This book took me on a wild ride! It was suspenseful with a good plot line and characterization. One slowly learns what happened to the girls through multiple perspectives. Good paced book that is a winner. I loved this story. I thought it was compelling and moving. SPOILERS! The story is about two girls who go missing from their own beds early one August morning. The race to find them before night falls is only intensified by the fact that one of the girls' father (a raging alcoholic) is also MIA and may have something to do with it. It reads as a thriller as it changes from one narrative voice to another and each person is experiencing the ordeal from a unique standpoint. When the girls are found I loved this story. I thought it was compelling and moving. SPOILERS! The story is about two girls who go missing from their own beds early one August morning. The race to find them before night falls is only intensified by the fact that one of the girls' father (a raging alcoholic) is also MIA and may have something to do with it. It reads as a thriller as it changes from one narrative voice to another and each person is experiencing the ordeal from a unique standpoint. When the girls are found there are still several unanswered questions which Calli, a selective mute, cannot answer. I loved the way Gudenkauf wove the stories of these two families into one. I thought it was intense and kept me reading for 200 pages straight. The pacing of the story was wonderful and did not give you a moment to rest after discovering a new piece of the puzzle, before it was plunging you again into the sad tale of these girls, leaving you on the edge of your seat once more. Now, onto what I did not like about this book. I really like books that have different narratives, but in this instance, the narratives were not strong enough. There was never a moment where I knew, just by speech or thoughts of a character who's perspective the chapter was from. I think there should have been a huge difference between a 57 year old college professor's narrative voice and a 12 year old boy's. And there simply wasn't. On a personal note, I hate epilogues. I feel that they simply serve as a moment of \"and they lived happily ever after, the end...\" And I feel that this book could have used a wrap-up, for sure, but just not as cheesy as it was. Overall, however, I thought it was an amazing story and the plot pacing and development were both great. I really enjoyed it! ...more This book strikes me as the work of a beginning author. The writing is amateurish, and the characters are extremely under-developed. The narrator switches between several main characters, but as one reviewer commented, all of their voices blend into one indistinct blur. Calli, the main character, has none of the little-girl-charm that keeps readers glued. Just because she doesn't talk doesn't mean she shouldn't have a personality! Calli's dad, another abusive-angry-father stereotype (pretty easy This book strikes me as the work of a beginning author. The writing is amateurish, and the characters are extremely under-developed. The narrator switches between several main characters, but as one reviewer commented, all of their voices blend into one indistinct blur. Calli, the main character, has none of the little-girl-charm that keeps readers glued. Just because she doesn't talk doesn't mean she shouldn't have a personality! Calli's dad, another abusive-angry-father stereotype (pretty easy to pull off), has an inconsistent character. He is not mean enough to be feared by readers, yet he definitely doesn't earn the readers' sympathy. His actions don't make a whit of sense throughout the story. The plot isn't even worthy of criticism because it is practically nonexistent. Nothing interesting happens in this story. The author probably aimed for the genre of psychological thriller, but this falls way short of the mark. The novel lacks suspense and the intended plot twists are choppy and don't achieve the effect they should. After finishing the book, my first reaction was \"that's it?\" which is always a bad sign. The ending brought no real closure to this unnerving story, there were way too many strings left untied. And the biggg secret that leaves Calli mute is a complete let-down (not surprisingly). ...more This book is one of the few books I gave 5 stars to. It was, in two words, absolutely beautiful. It's been a while since I can hardly make my eyes move across the page fast enough. Reading some of the reviews on here, I see not everyone thought it was as awesome as I did, but for some reason, this book really 'spoke' to me. The characters Ben and Petra especially touched my heart. \"You ran upstairs to your room and wouldn't even look at me for the next ten days. But I knew you were sorry. I kept f This book is one of the few books I gave 5 stars to. It was, in two words, absolutely beautiful. It's been a while since I can hardly make my eyes move across the page fast enough. Reading some of the reviews on here, I see not everyone thought it was as awesome as I did, but for some reason, this book really 'spoke' to me. The characters Ben and Petra especially touched my heart. \"You ran upstairs to your room and wouldn't even look at me for the next ten days. But I knew you were sorry. I kept finding Tootsie Rolls under my pillow every day for the next two weeks.\" This quote (and I suppose the whole scene) was my favourite) Also, the scene where Calli first meets Petra and the two share a sandwhich and jump rope pulled at my heart. ...more An absolutely amazing novel! I found it very hard to put this novel down. This is one of those books, were you're desperate to get to the end, to find out the outcome, but at the same time, you don't want the novel to end. <---A>Heather Gudenkauf</---A> writes from the perspective of each character, and her descriptions of the violence and the fear that surround Calli and Ben are both breathtaking and heart-wrenching. I'm not even going to bother continuing this tripe. A super duper wonderful little girl is a selective mute, and one morning she and another super duper wonderful little girl go missing. There's not a single moment of suspense, since both super duper wonderful little girls are POV characters at different points of the book, so we know they're not dead or hurt, unless it turns out they're ghosts! Wouldn't put that past this writer. So let's go through our stock character collection: We've got the I'm not even going to bother continuing this tripe. A super duper wonderful little girl is a selective mute, and one morning she and another super duper wonderful little girl go missing. There's not a single moment of suspense, since both super duper wonderful little girls are POV characters at different points of the book, so we know they're not dead or hurt, unless it turns out they're ghosts! Wouldn't put that past this writer. So let's go through our stock character collection: We've got the small time cop still pining for his lost love (he missed his chance at true love!), intellectual professor from humble roots (betcha didn't know a hog farmer could be all into book learnin'!), drunk wife beater with less subtlety than Snidely Whiplash (he pushed his pregnant wife down the stairs! Of course he did!), and the put upon wife who gets the shit beaten out of her on a daily basis because Lifetime tells us that's virtuous for some reason. And guess what, Heather Gudenkauf? Being a perpetual victim doesn't make someone sympathetic. It makes her a coward. Seriously, I can't begin to imagine how over-educated this terrible writer is. I can guarantee she's got a notebook filled with similar premises in her desk drawer right now. Two little girls are bestest friends, one dimensional characters, dumb mystery that's not actually a mystery, stir in some unrequited love filled with terrible flowery prose and READY SET WRITE! ...more I tore through this book over two days...the author does a fantastic job with building suspense around the search for two missing little girls. I will preface this review by stating that once I picked up this book, I could not put it down. This novel, set in rural, small-town Iowa on a hot summer day, centers around the tragic day in the lives of two American families. Two seven year old girls, neighbours and best friends to one another, go missing from their respective homes on the same early summer morning. The novel chronicles the search for the missing girls. I love mysteries and suspenseful reads, but I generally anticipate these t I will preface this review by stating that once I picked up this book, I could not put it down. This novel, set in rural, small-town Iowa on a hot summer day, centers around the tragic day in the lives of two American families. Two seven year old girls, neighbours and best friends to one another, go missing from their respective homes on the same early summer morning. The novel chronicles the search for the missing girls. I love mysteries and suspenseful reads, but I generally anticipate these types of books to be plot driven at the expense of rich character development. This was not the case here. The Weight of Silence is satisfyingly character driven. The story is told from the point of view of six different characters, each of whom is profoundly impacted by the events that take place that hot summer morning. This narrative technique is quite successful, allowing for rich character development. I was 90% through this book and thought that I would rate it four stars, but I came to the epilogue and it made me cry, so I had to bump up its rating. This book provided me with everything I could ask for in a contemporary novel, including, rich character development and suspense. It was impossible to put down and was emotionally cathartic. I look forward to trying more of this author's books. ...more For the most part this was an enjoyable read. Just a couple of things bugged me. The first was the multiple narrators. The chapters all read the same to me. If I got interrupted I often had to scroll back to the beginning of the chapter to find out who's pov it was. The side story of Petra felt like an after thought. And the ending. Everything was tied up a just little to neatly and left me feeling flat. What a great story full of secrets and who-did-it suspense! Keeps you guessing and interested throughout the entire book. As two seven year old girls are found missing from their beds, Calli a selective mute and Petra her best friend, the search begins in the woods near their home with Calli's father, a mean drunk who is supposedly away on a fishing trip a likely suspect. The story is told from each character's perspective, Ben, Calli's brother, the girl's parents and Assistant Sheriff Louis, Cal What a great story full of secrets and who-did-it suspense! Keeps you guessing and interested throughout the entire book. As two seven year old girls are found missing from their beds, Calli a selective mute and Petra her best friend, the search begins in the woods near their home with Calli's father, a mean drunk who is supposedly away on a fishing trip a likely suspect. The story is told from each character's perspective, Ben, Calli's brother, the girl's parents and Assistant Sheriff Louis, Calli's mothers' high school sweetheart. Really enjoyed it! ...more Quick read and a page turner for me. The author kept me guesses as to who was responsible in hurting Petra. Kalbanti tyla gali b\u016bti sunkiai i\u0161tveriama. Ji gali priversti jaustis lyg sul\u0117tintame kine, pasimetimo, bej\u0117gi\u0161kumo ir baim\u0117s apsuptyje. Visa tai knygoje yra pristatyta \u012ftraukian\u010diai su \u012ftampos ir paslap\u010di\u0173 prieskoniu. Joje pateiktas nusikaltimas yra \u017eiaurus ir pati istorija skamba kaip tikra non-fiction, bet prisipa\u017einsiu \u2013 man palengv\u0117jo kad \u0161i knyga visgi yra vaizduot\u0117s vaisius. Bet tai nerei\u0161kia kad tikrov\u0117je taip neb\u016bna. Man labai patiko kad kiekvienas skyrius atspindi vis kito veik\u0117jo jaus Kalbanti tyla gali b\u016bti sunkiai i\u0161tveriama. Ji gali priversti jaustis lyg sul\u0117tintame kine, pasimetimo, bej\u0117gi\u0161kumo ir baim\u0117s apsuptyje. Visa tai knygoje yra pristatyta \u012ftraukian\u010diai su \u012ftampos ir paslap\u010di\u0173 prieskoniu. Joje pateiktas nusikaltimas yra \u017eiaurus ir pati istorija skamba kaip tikra non-fiction, bet prisipa\u017einsiu \u2013 man palengv\u0117jo kad \u0161i knyga visgi yra vaizduot\u0117s vaisius. Bet tai nerei\u0161kia kad tikrov\u0117je taip neb\u016bna. Man labai patiko kad kiekvienas skyrius atspindi vis kito veik\u0117jo jausmus ir potyrius, autor\u0117 net gi pakaitalioja pasakojimo stili\u0173: vienur informacija pateikiama tre\u010diu asmeniu, kitur pirmu. Pats ra\u0161ymo stilius ir pateikimas tikrai su\u017eav\u0117jo, o vat istorija man kartais primin\u0117 F1 su Pitstopais. Jau atrodo \u012fsib\u0117g\u0117jo ir tada sul\u0117t\u0117ja ir taip kelis kartus. Knygos prad\u017eia mane sudomino ir \u012ftrauk\u0117, bet tie Pitstopai... na jie pagadino \u012fdomum\u0105 \u0161iek tiek. \u017dinoma gr\u012f\u017eimai \u012f praeit\u012f yra svarb\u016bs istorijos pateikimui. Kad ir kaip beb\u016bt\u0173, man tai ne trileris ar siaubo istorija - skaitant \u0161i\u0105 knyg\u0105 ne kart\u0105 sp\u0117liojau ir jaudinausi kas \u010dia bus toliau. \u012etamp\u0105 did\u017eiul\u0117. Skaitant jau\u010diausi sujaudinta Kali, jos geriausios draug\u0117s ir j\u0173 \u0161eim\u0173 gyvenimo istorij\u0173. Tikrai emocionali, u\u017e \u0161irdies griebianti knyga, kurioje yra nema\u017eai \u012ftampos su \u012fdomiu detektyviniu pateikimu. ...more I would give this one 3.5 stars. 2 young girls go missing one early morning and this book follows the day from many different character perspectives. Each chapter changes to another person and their take on what is going on. The way that the novel was laid out held my attention and made it really easy to keep reading right through it. I couldn't wait to see what happened in the end. I loved how when one chapter ended, the next chapter picked up right where the last one left off, without leaving I would give this one 3.5 stars. 2 young girls go missing one early morning and this book follows the day from many different character perspectives. Each chapter changes to another person and their take on what is going on. The way that the novel was laid out held my attention and made it really easy to keep reading right through it. I couldn't wait to see what happened in the end. I loved how when one chapter ended, the next chapter picked up right where the last one left off, without leaving anything out for the audience. Brilliantly written. Characters were very strong, and some of them you hated, and some you felt emotionally tied to. Overall, the strength of some of these characters comes directly from the nasty parts of other characters. I think that unfortunately, this types of broken households exist all too often today. The only downside to this book for me was the epilogue, I thought that the entire book was strong, and then the ending just didn't really seem necessary to get the point across. ...more Two little girls go missing in the wee hours of a summer morning. This is the premise of The Weight of Silence. This is a thriller/mystery of the first order. All the characters have a voice(this seems to be a trend in books lately),so chapters are devoted to each characters perspective in the story. While of late I have found this an annoying trend, this book makes it work. At times distressing and heart-breaking, but ultimately satisfying, this story kept me turning the page til the very end. Such an amazing story! Absolutely loved this book. This was interesting. The changing points of view didn't give me nearly as many problems as I thought that it would. In the beginning, it made everything a bit jerky, but as I got used to it, I just sort of flowed from one person's mind to another, as if I were in a room with these people and each person's thoughts came at me from all angles. I also found it interesting how all, except one, of Ben's parts were written to Callie, as though he were talking to her instead of telling some unnamed re This was interesting. The changing points of view didn't give me nearly as many problems as I thought that it would. In the beginning, it made everything a bit jerky, but as I got used to it, I just sort of flowed from one person's mind to another, as if I were in a room with these people and each person's thoughts came at me from all angles. I also found it interesting how all, except one, of Ben's parts were written to Callie, as though he were talking to her instead of telling some unnamed reader a story. I did wonder, though, why we didn't get to see Griff's mind in all of this. He seemed to be the only central character who didn't get his own parts, and I can only suspect that it's because it would be hard to make Griff the red herring in Petra's disappearance if he had his own parts. Also very interesting was that Calli's parts were all written in 3rd person past, until the epilogue. She didn't speak, not even directly to the reader until she released her voice. All of the voices were different, although at times I felt that the children's voices felt a little too adult. I kept forgetting that Ben was 12, thinking him more like 15 or 16. I also had to remind myself that Petra and Calli were only 7 years old. I would have liked more than just Calli's description of the aftermath that was in the epilogue. We got an entire book of people saying Griff had done these horrible things, and yes, he did some atrocious things. He just happened to be innocent of the thing he was currently being accused of. We were in Martin Gregory's head every time he blamed someone else, but we weren't able to be in his head except one small time when it turned out that it wasn't Toni who brought this person into his daughter's life, but that he was the one that brought him around. We felt such raw emotion through all the parts that I felt a little cheated that I didn't get to really feel his emotions there. In fact, in Martin's last part, he really didn't seem to be affected by it at all. The ending really did just feel rushed, as though the big part of the story was over. Everything after Calli telling Ben and the doctors who hurt Petra felt like just a quick wrap-up. We never got to experience Petra's feelings about who had taken her and what it was like to switch roles with Calli in their friendship. We didn't really get to feel Toni coming to grips with the fact that Griff was the reason that Calli didn't speak, other than her brief \"It was you\" moment with him before he was killed. The wrap-up was just a little too quick and tidy for me. I also got the feeling that I was supposed to feel some kind of relief that Griff had been killed, but the way the scene played out, I could only partially feel that. He was a flawed man that did horrible things to his family and other people when he drank. He deserved some kind of punishment for what he did, but I can't say that he deserved his death. I also felt that killing Griff gave Toni an easy way out. She never really had to stand up to him, she never had to make the hard choices. Griff was killed and the hardest thing she had to do was explain it to the children, and they didn't even take it that hard. He was a mean drunk and he died, now let's paint the house yellow and start hanging out with Louis. *shrug* I don't know. It goes back to my idea of the quick, tidy ending. Overall, I enjoyed this book. It was different than my usual fare, and I swept right through it. If you're in a book club, I'd recommend this as a pick because, even without the questions printed in the back, this book was made for discussion. ...more The story line of this novel was good and I think the author had a good idea upon which to formulate a story. There were many smaller themes--small town life, childhood friendship, first loves, alcoholism and its effect on a family, etc. This story was told in pieces--both in present and in the past, recalled in the speaker's memories. I thought that was a fine vehicle to deliver this story and I also thought it interesting in whose voices the author chose to tell the story, and whose were not c The story line of this novel was good and I think the author had a good idea upon which to formulate a story. There were many smaller themes--small town life, childhood friendship, first loves, alcoholism and its effect on a family, etc. This story was told in pieces--both in present and in the past, recalled in the speaker's memories. I thought that was a fine vehicle to deliver this story and I also thought it interesting in whose voices the author chose to tell the story, and whose were not chosen. I will say, too, that I raced through this novel--anxious to find out what happened to the two little girls and who was ultimately responsible. But beyond that, there were several shortcomings in the book. The writing is very amateurish. I don't expect everything I read to be a literary work of art and I don't seek that out either. But the writing here was very basic and undeveloped. I don't even agree with the reviewer that said it is more of a Young Adult read, just because of the simplistic writing style. I also enjoy YA reads from time to time and it is not simpler and inexperienced writing that makes a book YA, and to say that insults those authors. In my opinion, this author is simply inexperienced. The other thing that really annoyed me about this book is the viewpoints and different voices. I appreciate that the author took this on, but what bothered me is that each one did not really have their own voice at all. They each created their own stories, sure. But their language and vocabularies did not vary, despite the range in ages (from 7 years old to 57 years old!) or their education level (first grader up to a college professor / department head)! Even the backgrounds of these characters varied so greatly--some small town, some from Chicago, some law enforcement, some academic, to stay-at-home moms. Yet, their voices all read the same. Each one was not individual in their wording, phrases, and not consistent with their ages, vocabulary level, or background. I would think this would be the basic construct of a novel that is speaking from each of the different characters. So that makes me wonder, why even bother writing in this manner? This really bothered me. I was a little disappointed in the character of Antonia, too. Overall, I can't say I liked this book as much as I WAS really interested in it and stuck with it to see the outcome. So in that respect, it is a success and that's why I gave it 3 stars. I doubt I would read another of Heather Gudenkauf's books. ...more Heather Gudenkauf's novel The Weight of Silence is a nearly perfect book with a major flaw. I'm rating this book as five stars because it gives me as much of what I want out of a story as I can get. It's a page turner at times. It has believable and flawed characters. It makes me think about situations from other people's points of view. I can't ask for more than that. Still, I couldn't get my mind off of one problem while I was reading it. Calli Clark is a young girl, five or six years old, in a Heather Gudenkauf's novel The Weight of Silence is a nearly perfect book with a major flaw. I'm rating this book as five stars because it gives me as much of what I want out of a story as I can get. It's a page turner at times. It has believable and flawed characters. It makes me think about situations from other people's points of view. I can't ask for more than that. Still, I couldn't get my mind off of one problem while I was reading it. Calli Clark is a young girl, five or six years old, in a troubled family living in Willow Creek, a small, rural town. The trouble in her family comes from her father, Griff, who is abusive and suffers with a serious alcohol problem. Her mother, Toni, is a sweet, loving, woman who is too weak to confront her husband and rationalizes her acceptance of her husband's ways because she wants to keep her family together. Something has happened to Calli in the past that has caused her to stop speaking. This selective mutism is the reason for the title and it is the force behind everything that happens in this book. It was caused by a family secret that must come out. Here is where I have trouble with the plot. Calli is an intelligent young girl who can express herself clearly by writing. Gudenkauf makes a point about how many words she can write at an early age. Calli meets with a counselor who gets her to write a journal made up of words and pictures. Clearly, she can express herself with paper and pencil. Yet, except for Mr. Wilson the counselor, no one, not even her mother, gives Calli the opportunity to \u201cspeak\u201d on paper. At school she communicates through her friend, Petra, who is so close to Calli she always knows what Calli is thinking. Calli is taken into the woods behind her home by her father, in a jealous rage. He is convinced that Deputy Sheriff Louis is Calli's biological father because Toni had a relationship with Louis prior to her marriage. At the same time Petra sees something out of her bedroom window and heads into the woods to follow what she saw. The story is about the search for the two young girls out in the woods. But it is about much more than that. It is a story of human failings and how they affect relationships. It makes me think and keeps me enthralled. For that I can certainly suspend my disbelief about one part of the plot. ...more Street Corner TBR Challenge June pick #1 per Nomes. It's amazing how not really all that much happened in this book, but how completely engrossed I was. It is pretty much a 24 hour timeline story, which I usually am not gaga over, but this one is an exception. The writing style is gorgeous. The characters are likeable. And, that ending..... I can't even claim to be a cool kid who predicted it.... Seriously, I was suprised! Spoilers lie ahead.................... Callie is a selective mute, i.e., the Street Corner TBR Challenge June pick #1 per Nomes. It's amazing how not really all that much happened in this book, but how completely engrossed I was. It is pretty much a 24 hour timeline story, which I usually am not gaga over, but this one is an exception. The writing style is gorgeous. The characters are likeable. And, that ending..... I can't even claim to be a cool kid who predicted it.... Seriously, I was suprised! Spoilers lie ahead.................... Callie is a selective mute, i.e., there is nothing wrong with her she just chooses not to speak. She is a platform of what a bad enviroment can do to a person. The end, finding out what her Dad said to her makes me so sad. I am 100% okay with him being \"out of the picture\" in the end. Alcoholism is one of those diseases that just discust me, especially when it is someone who has children. This book was heart-wrenching for Callie, Ben and their Mother. I have a complaint though.... It kinda bothered me how the Mother's child was missing and she was traispsing through her childhood and early adulthood thinking of her 1st love, the deputy sherriff. I have never been in her shoes, but it seems like if my child was missing some past lover would be the last thing in my mind. Granted, her circumstances are different with a drunk, abusive husband and all. I can see why she would long for a different life, but just not so much while her child was missing. My other thing is, why had she not just left him a long time ago. Seriously, he was awful to her and to their kids. There has to come a point where enough is enough. If he hadn't been killed in the end, she probably still would have went back to him and that is just sickening. The reality of it is sickening.... I'd also like to know what Callie's Dad was thinking that morning he took her into the woods. What were his intentions? I feel like I have complained too much... This book is soooo very good. I whole-heartedly suggest you read it. It will leave you speachless for a while. 4.5 stars ...more I have mixed feelings about this book \u2013 I liked it and I didn\u2019t like it. I felt the beginning was great but then began to get weighed down with way too many words and too many details and then seemed a long time in getting to the end. After all that, we never did find out why one girl was even taken! At four years of age little Callie stopped talking due to something her father said to her on one particular day but no one knows about this other than Callie herself. Callie\u2019s mother Antonia is hear I have mixed feelings about this book \u2013 I liked it and I didn\u2019t like it. I felt the beginning was great but then began to get weighed down with way too many words and too many details and then seemed a long time in getting to the end. After all that, we never did find out why one girl was even taken! At four years of age little Callie stopped talking due to something her father said to her on one particular day but no one knows about this other than Callie herself. Callie\u2019s mother Antonia is heartbroken as is her brother Ben when they discover that Callie has stopped being verbal. Petra is Callie\u2019s best friend and she does all the talking for Callie and seems to just know and sense what it is she wants to ask or say and says it for her. Her brother Ben always looks out for her as well so Callie has lots of people to keep her occupied and interested. One day both Callie and her best friend Petra disappear and each character\u2019s point of view is written chapter-by-chapter in the first person which is fine but the writing just lacks \u2018something\u2019. The story is told in one day which is the one day that Callie and Petra were missing in the woods. I feel that the author had very good intentions in writing and telling this story, but the book lacked character and plot development. It wasn\u2019t a bad book at all, just not one that I personally would highly recommend and was a bit disappointed in. Not every single person loves every single book, but perhaps you will enjoy it. ...more \"The Weight of Silence\" chronicles a day in the lives of two families whose daughters go missing. The reader learns what transpires through the alternating perspective of six lives who are impacted by the events. Although a deceptively easy read, this book immediately grabs your attention and makes you long to know what happens next. I don't think there is much question about who committed the crimes but I think this book is more of a character study than a mystery. Speaking of... the characters \"The Weight of Silence\" chronicles a day in the lives of two families whose daughters go missing. The reader learns what transpires through the alternating perspective of six lives who are impacted by the events. Although a deceptively easy read, this book immediately grabs your attention and makes you long to know what happens next. I don't think there is much question about who committed the crimes but I think this book is more of a character study than a mystery. Speaking of... the characters are rich in personality and depth. Their actions make you wonder what you might do in a similar situation. I wish I could give a 1/2 star because I would have rated it 3 1/2 instead. Unfortunately for this novel, I've recently read a few other books that were along similar lines that had more intensity. I do think this is a great book club book because it offers topics that would be rich for discussion. Overall, a very enjoyable, quick read. ...more This is a fast paced book about 2 young girls who are found to be missing early one morning. They live a few houses apart and one of the girl's fathers is also missing. The story unfolds from the point of view of the mother of one child and the father of another, also the first girl's brother and the detective involved in the case. This is a book which it is easy to get engrossed in and the author does a great job in getting the different 'voices' ( ironic too!!) to come through. The first girl wh This is a fast paced book about 2 young girls who are found to be missing early one morning. They live a few houses apart and one of the girl's fathers is also missing. The story unfolds from the point of view of the mother of one child and the father of another, also the first girl's brother and the detective involved in the case. This is a book which it is easy to get engrossed in and the author does a great job in getting the different 'voices' ( ironic too!!) to come through. The first girl who is missing doesnt speak following the traumatic miscarriage of her sister that occurs in her presence. Slowly the characters unfold and show how desperate and irrational they become when their worlds turn horrible. ...more This was a hard and heavy read. Two girls, best friends, go missing one day in the middle of the woods at 4:30 AM. The little town is frenzied by their dissapperance. The author does well at developing the characters. She makes sure that you love some characters and hate others. Intially, I was disappointed because I thought I had predicted the ending but I was so very wrong. It took a completely different turn toward the end. There were some moments, however, that I thought the author went into This was a hard and heavy read. Two girls, best friends, go missing one day in the middle of the woods at 4:30 AM. The little town is frenzied by their dissapperance. The author does well at developing the characters. She makes sure that you love some characters and hate others. Intially, I was disappointed because I thought I had predicted the ending but I was so very wrong. It took a completely different turn toward the end. There were some moments, however, that I thought the author went into too much detail and I hoped she would just getto the point. But, don't all good author's make you feel that way sometimes. All in all an excellent novel. It sucked me in early and held me until the end. ...more Knygos pirm\u0105 tre\u010ddal\u012f skai\u010diau sunkokai. Nesu tikra, ar tod\u0117l, kad buvo \"neskaitymo periodas\", ar tiesiog reik\u0117jo laiko susidom\u0117ti pasakojimu, susigaudyti tarp veik\u0117j\u0173 ir veiksmo. Vis d\u0117lto toliau istorija \u0117m\u0117 vis labiau \u012ftraukti, \u012ftampa kilo, ir tapo sunku atsitraukti (o miegas gali palaukti). Tai intriguojantis, sud\u0117tingas pasakojimas apie tai, kaip i\u0161 nam\u0173 dingsta dvi ma\u017eos mergait\u0117s, apie j\u0173 paie\u0161kas, perteikiamas i\u0161 \u012fvairi\u0173 veik\u0117j\u0173 pozicij\u0173, papildant skirtingais j\u0173 i\u0161gyvenimais, veik\u0117j\u0173 is Knygos pirm\u0105 tre\u010ddal\u012f skai\u010diau sunkokai. Nesu tikra, ar tod\u0117l, kad buvo \"neskaitymo periodas\", ar tiesiog reik\u0117jo laiko susidom\u0117ti pasakojimu, susigaudyti tarp veik\u0117j\u0173 ir veiksmo. Vis d\u0117lto toliau istorija \u0117m\u0117 vis labiau \u012ftraukti, \u012ftampa kilo, ir tapo sunku atsitraukti (o miegas gali palaukti). Tai intriguojantis, sud\u0117tingas pasakojimas apie tai, kaip i\u0161 nam\u0173 dingsta dvi ma\u017eos mergait\u0117s, apie j\u0173 paie\u0161kas, perteikiamas i\u0161 \u012fvairi\u0173 veik\u0117j\u0173 pozicij\u0173, papildant skirtingais j\u0173 i\u0161gyvenimais, veik\u0117j\u0173 istorijos atskleidimu, bei palie\u010diant tokias temas kaip smurtas \u0161eimoje, alkoholizmas. Paliko stipr\u0173 \u012fsp\u016bd\u012f. Manau, meistri\u0161kai para\u0161yta istorija. ...more You know how, when you read a really great book, one you really love, that you slow down when you know you have those last few pages left, simply so you can savor them? The Weight of Silence was one of those books for me. Filled with heart-pounding suspense, unique, well-crafted characters that were all too human in their foibles and strengths, and a main character (Calli) whom I truly came to love, this is probably one of my favorite books this year. It's my first Heather Gudenkauf book and my You know how, when you read a really great book, one you really love, that you slow down when you know you have those last few pages left, simply so you can savor them? The Weight of Silence was one of those books for me. Filled with heart-pounding suspense, unique, well-crafted characters that were all too human in their foibles and strengths, and a main character (Calli) whom I truly came to love, this is probably one of my favorite books this year. It's my first Heather Gudenkauf book and my testimony to it is I've already bought her other two. If you want a book that not only keeps you on the edge of your seat, but touches your heart as well, try The Weight of Silence. ...more I am trying something new. This book was very good, and sucked me in from the very beginning, and I finished in the 2nd day of reading. I just couldn\u2019t put it down. There was a discussion guide in the back of the book \u2013 so I decided to answer the questions in the discussion guide. So beware, while the discussion guide had done a fairly good job of not asking questions that give too much away \u2013 I\u2019m sure that you will get a basic jest of the story and might consider the following spoilers!! Don\u2019t I am trying something new. This book was very good, and sucked me in from the very beginning, and I finished in the 2nd day of reading. I just couldn\u2019t put it down. There was a discussion guide in the back of the book \u2013 so I decided to answer the questions in the discussion guide. So beware, while the discussion guide had done a fairly good job of not asking questions that give too much away \u2013 I\u2019m sure that you will get a basic jest of the story and might consider the following spoilers!! Don\u2019t read if you\u2019re planning on reading the book! 1. Antonia describes herself as a bad mother while Louis reassures her that she is, indeed, a good mother. What evidence from the book supports each of their beliefs? How does Louis\u2019s history with Antonia affect his own decisions as a husband and father? Antonia is a good mother when it comes to almost everything that does not have to do with Griff. She plays with her kids, tells them stories, takes them for walks in the woods. Antonia has taken the advise of doctors and is working with Calli\u2019s condition the best that she can. Unfortunately, where her husband\u2019s concerned, Antonia has dropped the ball. While Griff may not mean to be abusive, and does not have intentions on hurting his kids, he does over and over again. Instead of looking at what he is doing and what he has done, Antonia chooses to turn a blind eye, thinking that ultimately Griff loves the kids and has no intention of hurting them. From what we can tell in the book, Louis has dropped the ball in a desperate way. While it is obvious that Antonia still has affection for Louis, she has moved forward with her life and has continued to try and live the life that she wanted. Louis is in a constant looking back mode. He has moved back to his old town, even though as a young adult he indicated there was nothing there for him but Antonia, and it seems as though his thoughts and life might actually be preoccupied with Antonia. He is not seeing what he has, but is constantly looking at what he missed. Antonia shows she does that at times as well \u2013 but she is still right there with her family. Louis has shut his wife out of this part of his life, instead of communicating with her. He has put her in a situation where she will always feel second best. His fathering skills weren\u2019t really addressed much, except by the wife \u2013 who says he\u2019s never there for his son, Tanner. This could be a matter of perception, or it could be just another way Louis has shut out his current life as a result of living in the past. 2. Antonia and Louis\u2019s long history together is integral to The Weight of Silence. As a deputy sheriff, what, if any, ethical or moral boundaries did Louis cross in search for Calli? I\u2019m not sure I can appropriately answer this question, as I\u2019m not a cop and know nothing about protocol. Did Louis really break protocol when Calli showed up with Petra\u2019s necklace? You\u2019re dealing with panicked parents, would he have been able to stop Martin from going into the woods after her? In some cases I think it\u2019s better to deal with people on a personal level than the impersonal take Officer Fitzgerald was taking. It eases some of the fear. But that\u2019s just my take on it. I also didn\u2019t feel like he was acting inappropriately toward Antonia, he was trying to help her. He may have been more emotionally involved himself than a cop should be on any case, but in small towns, is there a way not to be emotionally involved? 3. Ben and Calli grew up with an abusive, alcoholic father. Knowing that abuse is often passed from generation to generation, what do you think Ben\u2019s and Calli\u2019s chances of breaking the cycle of abuse in their future relationships? What instances from the book lead you to believe this? This is a matter of the person, and the person\u2019s decisions, as well as other factors. I also have an alcoholic father, and I also have a younger brother. In my instance, I have made the conscious decision to break the cycle. I saw what alcohol (and drugs) did to my family. I could see how my father changed when he drank. I saw the abuse that came as a result of that alcohol. I made the decision at a very young age that that was not how I wanted to live my life. My brother on the other hand was very young when my parents finally divorced, and did not get to witness as much as I did. His life was harder than mine in a lot of ways. He has recently shown signs that he is moving in the direction of substance abuse, but also since he was spared the chance to witness the physical abuse, he has not leaned in that direction at all. Lack of proper education has probably lead to him carrying on the cycle of substance abuse. Ben and Calli have both witnessed their father sober and drunk. He has felt the results of the abuse. Ben even timelines his father\u2019s behavior by how many cans of beer he has drunk in the book. I feel for sure Ben has acknowledged the problem, and has the determination to move beyond the cycle. Calli, evidenced in her selective muteness, has a tendency to turn into herself and hide. I would think that she would be more likely to turn into substance abuse than Ben. She has also experienced the results of substance abuse, and seen it\u2019s results. Ultimately, both of them have to make the choice not to do it. Especially in the teen years when there is so much peer pressure. I think it is in those years that one could loose control to the disease without even realizing it. 4. How does the death of Antonia\u2019s mother play into the decisions Antonia made as a wife and mother? How do you think Antonia\u2019s life would be different if her mother had lived? Given that the last bit of advice Antonia\u2019s mother gave to her was that the most important decision she had to make was her husband, and that it was more important to be a good wife than a good mother; I\u2019d say her death played a lot into Antonia\u2019s decisions for herself and her children. I\u2019m a mother of 3 and happily married, and I still rely on my mother as a friend and I value her advise as a mother. Antonia\u2019s mother could not have known what kind of marriage Antonia was going to get into. In fact, she had just assumed Antonia would marry Lou. Also, I feel her death played a huge role, because it is what ignited the fear in Antonia that Lou would leave her while at college, and she was afraid to be left waiting. She was losing people all around her and was feeling very scared, and not very self confident. Griff just happened along and made her feel loved and desired and he was there. 5. Martin Gregory, a proper, disciplined professor of economics, has always valued order, predictability and restraint in all areas of his life. How does his decision to seek retribution against the man he\u2019s sure violated his daughter fit into his belief system? Well, for starters, this man has broken that order and discipline. He has broken through the protection of everything being as it should be, and the safe feeling that comes with it. But also, I don\u2019t think Martin was acting as that man at all. Rage and adrenaline was pounding through him, and the desire to protect (and the fact that he failed to protect) his daughter took over. Even he knew he wasn\u2019t thinking straight. 6. Antonia, Louis, Martin and Petra\u2019s perspectives are told in the first-person, present-tense point of view, while Calli\u2019s is told in the third person, past tense. Why do you think the author decided to write the story this way? Funny thing\u2026I didn\u2019t even notice this. I was so wrapped up into the story I didn\u2019t care about what tense it was written in. Anyway, I suspect it\u2019s because this is how Calli sees herself. She\u2019s not a person with a voice, she is a story being told by someone else. She has lost control of her life, and can\u2019t find it. Until then, it\u2019s as if someone else is living (or reading) her life for her. 7. What does the title The Weight of Silence mean to you? How does the title relate to each of the main character\u2019s lives? Oh, this could take forever if I go through each character individually!!! Mainly I feel that Calli\u2019s silence has affected many people around her. I think it probably intensified Griff\u2019s anger and drinking problem. It has caused Antonia to question her parenting in areas that were she was actually doing a fine job, while at the same time she willingly ignored what she knew to be the problem. She blamed herself, but also admits (within her mind) that she has never asked what Griff said to her, or acknowledges that her husband has anything to do with it. She is constantly taking the blame and protecting Griff. Ben is left to the shadows. Lou is not communicating with his wife or living out the life that he has, living for the past. Martin and Fielda probably feel that their silence on their feelings toward Griff has lead to all of this, sucking their daughter into the mess. 8. Before Calli and Petra\u2019s disappearance, the Willow Creek Woods was a haven for Calli, Ben and Toni. Calli, fearful of the forest after her ordeal, asks her mother if she ever got scared when walking in the woods. Toni replied, \u201cIt sent you back to me, didn\u2019t it?\u201d What did Toni mean by this? Toni feels like the woods had nothing to do with the series of events. I also feel that they hold such good memories, right down to when Calli ran out okay for her view to be tainted. I think that she relied too heavily upon Ben and Calli\u2019s knowledge and familiarity with the woods and failed to take a step back and realize how close to major danger Calli was in as a result of the cover of the woods. 9. Martin Gregory had worked so hard to leave behind his farming roots by becoming a college professor, but after Petra\u2019s abduction and serious injuries, Martin subsequently moved with his family from Willow Creek to a farm. Why did Martin and Fielda decide to do this? It what was best for them. Martin was familiar with farming, so he didn\u2019t have to learn anything new. Petra likely needed more family support. It also probably is a way of shielding themselves from the outside world. The results of what happened to Petra is naturally to try and trap any bad thing out. 10.\tToni describes Calli and Petra as \u201ckindred spirits.\u201d What makes their friendship so special? Do you think Calli and Petra\u2019s friendship will last into adulthood? Why or why not? Who do you consider to be your kindred spirit? Why? Calli and Petra understand each other, and they do not judge each other. Their differences do not get in the way of their friendship. I believe they have a lasting friendship, they have been through a lot with each other. While there might be falling-outs in the future, they will always be friends. My husband would be the closest thing to a kindred spirit I have. He understands me, trusts me whole heartedly, and I him. We have a very loving and close bond that I can\u2019t imagine ever growing old. ...more I could not put this book down! I read it over two days and was just captivated by the characters and also by the description of the woods where most of the action takes place. They were magical & romantic at times, and scary & forboding at others and also hold meaning to each of the characters. The main character of the story is Calli, a child who has selective mutism (meaning there is no medical reason she cannot speak, but she doesn't speak) as a result of experiencing a family trauma. I could not put this book down! I read it over two days and was just captivated by the characters and also by the description of the woods where most of the action takes place. They were magical & romantic at times, and scary & forboding at others and also hold meaning to each of the characters. The main character of the story is Calli, a child who has selective mutism (meaning there is no medical reason she cannot speak, but she doesn't speak) as a result of experiencing a family trauma. Over the course of two days while she is missing, her history begins to unravel through the perspectives of the other characters in the book (her mother, her brother, her best friend, her best friend's father, and the town's deputy sheriff). As the story unfolds, we begin to understand what life is like for little Calli, and we learn what has lead to her mutism. I started to love her little friend Petra who was outgoing and spunky and stood up for Calli against the kids who made fun of her and the adults who grew frustrated with her. Her brother was also a favorite character: kind-hearted and protective of her and really seemed to understand her. Calli's father is an abusive alcoholic and while you never really like him, I felt like that realities of living with an alcoholic were portrayed accurately, and without bias. It seems like sometimes an author can either really play up the pity card of the horrible disease of alcoholism or can really make you judgmental against the alcoholic and I didn't feel like this author did either...it was presented as a very matter-of-fact, unfortunate presence in these people's lives. Each character in this novel seems to have their weaknesses, doubts, obstacles, and trials & it was interesting to watch how each reacted to them. The novel reveals the experiences, situations, and decisions that led them to this point in the story. My take-aways from this novel are: (1) to remember that you do not know what other people are dealing with in their lives (alcoholism, abuse, bad marriages, childhood issues) or where they are coming from, so don't judge them, but help when you think you can (like little Petra speaking for Calli and Louis looking out for Toni). (2) to value the true friends that you have in life because they are such a blessing & you will be there for each other through thick and thin. Calli & Petra were there for each other in each one's moment of need; Louis was there for Toni. (3) Finally, no one is perfect, we all have things that feel like we could have done better, which may be true, but you can't undo the past...you can only do better today and tomorrow. So let go of it, learn from it and put your best foot forward. It seemed like Toni was very hard on herself for the parenting decisions she made, but to me the real questions should be not if she did everything right, but did she do everything she could given the circumstances & is she striving to be better in the future? In reading some of the other reviews, I see that others were critical of the literary value of this book. They are correct...the writing style is not all that sophisticated, there aren't many examples of literary tools in use here...so if you're looking for something that can be evaluated for a literature class, you'll be disappointed; however, if you're looking for something that keeps your attention and helps you pass some time, this is a good way to do it. I did feel like there were a few times that you could tell the author threw in some red herrings. To me, a good suspenseful book is one in which you continue believing that it could be anyone until the end. But I felt like the way she threw in a few of them, you could tell that's what she was trying to and it didn't succeed in creating the suspense I wanted. I do agree with other readers that one of the weaknesses of this book is that it is told by different points of view (which is fine if you can do it well) but the voices aren't distinct enough to support that style of writing. Calli's voice is different because it is always told third-person, past-tense, while everyone else's is first-person, present-tense. And Ben's voice is different because it is written like a teenage boy. But the rest of the voices were too similar. In hindsight, I do wonder about the odds of the circumstances...it seems like a stretch that two girls would go missing at the same time, the same day, in the same woods and have two entirely different, horrible stories. But even given all that, it kept me turning pages. I would definitely recommend it for people looking for a book that will keep their attention and entertain them. ...more<---C>Heather Gudenkauf</---C>", "Title": "The Weight of Silence"},
