{"Comments": "Like the other books in the Uglies trilogy, <+++>Extras</+++> is fun and a very fast read. I read this book in about 2 and 1/2 hours, pretty much non-stop. However, <+++>Extras</+++> raised the same prickly issues for me that the other books in the series did. My years as a student steeped in cultural studies and gender theory make it pretty much impossible for me to read works of popular fiction without subjecting them to critical analysis, and Westerfeld's books certainly lend themselves to this sort of critique. E Like the other books in the Uglies trilogy, Extras is fun and a very fast read. I read this book in about 2 and 1/2 hours, pretty much non-stop. However, Extras raised the same prickly issues for me that the other books in the series did. My years as a student steeped in cultural studies and gender theory make it pretty much impossible for me to read works of popular fiction without subjecting them to critical analysis, and Westerfeld's books certainly lend themselves to this sort of critique.<---F> Especially if you are like me</---F>. Like most dystopian science fiction, Westerfeld's books cast a critical eye on disturbing aspects of our present-day society -- obsession with looks, fame, etc -- by taking those aspects to extremes and weaving them into the very fabric of the future society. In Uglies & Pretties, everyone is \"cured\" of ugliness through a mandatory operation that takes place when individuals turn 16. In Extras,<---M> people earn money</---M>, respect, and privilege through the \"reputation-based\" economy, which rewards those who can make a name for themselves by publicizing and popularizing their thoughts, exploits, etc through the \"feeds\" (<---B>read: Internet</---B>). (If you think this is an interesting idea, you might want to check out Cory Doctorow's book \"Down & Out in the Magic Kingdom\" which explores the same conceit but with more skill and humor). In all of these books, the main (female) character desperately wants to be pretty, special, popular, famous or whatever, but ends up questioning the values of her society when she meets outsiders who don't subscribe to those norms. The problem I have with Westerfeld's books is that these critiques, which are intriguing and thought-provoking, don't actually go far enough. Although the main character openly questions and in some cases initially resists the societal mandate to become pretty, special, famous, etc, she ALWAYS eventually ends up becoming pretty or famous even if it is against her will. Unlike all the other unenlightened pretty or famous folks who have never questioned their society's structure, however, she is well-aware of the pitfalls. She is now in fact doubly privileged -- as a pretty/special/famous person she has all the privileges that go along with being high-status in her society, AND she also has a sophisticated understanding of the \"dark side\" of her society that others can't see, through ignorance or fear or whatever other blinders they have on. So although Westerfeld is clearly trying to show the reader how screwed up the dystopian society's norms (and by implication our own) are, in the end, he simply reinforces them. In Westerfeld's world, you can be hip to the ways in which our society's obsession with looks and celebrity oppress others and rail against the system, but you can still benefit from them at the same time. There's no sacrifice to make. And I guess that's why, as much as I enjoy Westerfeld's books, I can't help thinking that ultimately they're as shallow as the cultural norms they purport to critique. ...more I really struggled to finish this book, and I thought it was significantly worse than the others in the series. A lot of the dialogue was agonizingly stilted. The characters actually said things like \"Not good!\" and \"uh, oh!\" to react to approaching falling objects and other imminent bumps-on-the-head. AAAAAARGH. Those lines drive me crazy enough in movies. I was horrified to find them in a book. At one point, characters from two different countries meet and have some communication difficulties. I really struggled to finish this book, and I thought it was significantly worse than the others in the series. A lot of the dialogue was agonizingly stilted. The characters actually said things like \"Not good!\" and \"uh, oh!\" to react to approaching falling objects and other imminent bumps-on-the-head. AAAAAARGH. Those lines drive me crazy enough in movies. I was horrified to find them in a book. At one point, characters from two different countries meet and have some communication difficulties. After a few pages, the author seems to forget about the language barrier and the characters converse naturally, as if they're all speaking the same language. Then, toward the end, things get awkward again. SLOPPY. Sloppy writing, I say. Thoughout the series, the characters were pretty one-sided. Tally (the protagonist from the first three books) entered this book about half-way through, and I was surprised to find her totally changed; whereas in the first three books she was a victim, thrown about by circumstances and surgeries, in this book she was suddenly a confident, rough-and-tumble leader. I just didn't buy it. I don't think Westerfeld wrote very well from a teenage girl's point of view. Neither Aya nor Tally were very strong characters, and the \"ew, bugs and mud!\" part of this book really annoyed me. I was also confused by the fact that this story took place in a different country from the first three. I wish that had been well established early on so that I didn't have to wonder what the location was for such a long time. Wow, this review has gotten WAY longer than necessary. To sum up: There were some really good, interesting, creative ideas in the Uglies series, but they weren't good books. ...more Honestly, this book was kind of a disappointment. I liked how it was all accumulated around the Japanese society, but other than that, I was expecting much more of this book. In my opinion, Aya is a very whiny, self-absorbed suck up. I don't like the way <---A>Scott Westerfeld</---A> portrays Tally in this either because he renders her as a know-it-all b word, to say the least. Which, I don't think Tally has ever been. Her character is not put to justice in this book. Ugh. Finally done. This is how this book made me feel; because it was such a disappointment. and maybe a bit of this; because it was so boring. and also; because...well, it fucking sucked. I've noticed that I've been rating these 'Uglies' books in a pattern: Uglies: 5 Stars Pretties: 4 Stars Specials: 3 Stars Extras: 2 Stars Too bad they don't have a fifth one. If that had sucked as bad as this one, I would have loved to give that a one star, then the pattern would be complete. Extras is the fourth book in Scott Westerfeld's critically acclaimed, New York Times bestselling series (originally it was a trilogy). The first three books Uglies, Pretties, and Specials follow Tally Youngblood, a fifteen-year-old girl living in a futuristic world so dominated by plastic surgery that anyone who looks normal is ugly. Extras is set three years after the events of the trilogy unfold, in a different city, with different main characters. The trilogy, however, sets the framework for Extras is the fourth book in Scott Westerfeld's critically acclaimed, New York Times bestselling series (originally it was a trilogy). The first three books Uglies, Pretties, and Specials follow Tally Youngblood, a fifteen-year-old girl living in a futuristic world so dominated by plastic surgery that anyone who looks normal is ugly. Extras is set three years after the events of the trilogy unfold, in a different city, with different main characters. The trilogy, however, sets the framework for everything that happens in Extras so while the book is great on its own it definitely assumes you know the story of the trilogy. In this new world, where everything is changing, being pretty isn't enough to get by. Now it's fame that matters. The more famous you are, the higher your face rank is. A higher rank means more currency in a world where celebrity is everything. Everyone is trying to get more attention somehow: \"tech-heads\" are obsessed with gadgets, \"surge monkeys\" are hooked on the newest trends in plastic surgery, and \"kickers\" use feeds (think blogs but techier and cooler because it's a Westerfeld idea) to spread the word on all the gossip and trends worth mentioning. But staying famous is a lot easier than getting famous. Just ask Aya Fuse. Fifteen-year-old Aya has had her own feed for a year, but her rank is still 451,369--so low that she's a definite nobody, someone her city calls an extra. Aya has a plan to up her rank though. All she needs is a really big story to kick. Aya finds the perfect story when she meets the Sly Girls, a clique pulling crazy tricks in utter obscurity. As Aya follows her story she realizes it's much bigger than one clique: maybe the biggest story since Tally Youngblood changed everything. Some sequels that bring in all new characters are annoying. Not this one. All of the \"new\" characters are original and, equally important, likable. The story is also utterly original covering very different territory than the rest of the series. It doesn't pick up right where the trilogy left off, but a lot of questions are answered by the end of this book. Like the other books in the series, this one moves fast. The story has a lot of action and several twists and surprises (some old characters even turn up). The plot is never overly-confusing though. Westerfeld does a great job of creating (and explaining) the futuristic world he has created in these pages so that it truly comes to life on the page. At the same time, Extras is a very timely book. In a world where everyone seems to have some kind of website and is trying to be more popular or more famous, it's fascinating to read about a city where everything literally depends on your reputation. Westerfeld raises a lot of interesting questions as Aya deals with the ethics of kicking her new story and tries to decide if honesty really is more important than fame. ...more You know this book started out okay but it quickly went down hill. I was actually annoyed to see Tally in this one and her attitude. I mean this book was not about her so I don't understand why she HAD to be in it. I didn't like how she was portrayed at all. I also quickly got annoyed at Aya. The Uglies series was my first exposure to Westerfeld and though I really liked Uglies and liked Pretties and pretty much liked Specials I gotta say i'm noticing a pattern with his characters. They all want You know this book started out okay but it quickly went down hill. I was actually annoyed to see Tally in this one and her attitude. I mean this book was not about her so I don't understand why she HAD to be in it. I didn't like how she was portrayed at all. I also quickly got annoyed at Aya. The Uglies series was my first exposure to Westerfeld and though I really liked Uglies and liked Pretties and pretty much liked Specials I gotta say i'm noticing a pattern with his characters. They all want something superficial and they strive (like with Tally) and are willing to sell out people to get it. Grant it most of the times (not with Extras though) the characters realize that they were wrong in wanting the superficial. But it's annoying. And this book especially showed it's age group that was targeted. It was really not a good book and I would not recommend it at all. ...more Finishing a series always makes me feel like I'm losing a friend. I've spent a good week or so reading these four books, absorbed in the pages and the characters and their lives, and now I just feel lonely. Extras is set a few years after the huge finale of Specials, or the \"mind-rain\" as they now call it. It's also a bunch of new characters (although Tally, Shay, <---C>David</---C> and Fausto make a reappearance which I'm extremely happy about!), a new city, and a spanking new economy known as the \"reputati Finishing a series always makes me feel like I'm losing a friend. I've spent a good week or so reading these four books, absorbed in the pages and the characters and their lives, and now I just feel lonely. Extras is set a few years after the huge finale of Specials, or the \"mind-rain\" as they now call it. It's also a bunch of new characters (although Tally, Shay, David and Fausto make a reappearance which I'm extremely happy about!), a new city, and a spanking new economy known as the \"reputation economy\". Japan is all about face rank now, a little like a city-sized YouTube, with everyone sporting a hovercam and a feed to broadcast whatever they think will boost their rank. The higher your rank, the more you're able to live in luxury. Fifteen-year-old Aya is ranked around 400,000, making her a total extra, however she uncovers a secret clique, the Sly Girls, which she is certain will bump her to the top. Of course, nothing is ever as simple as that... Needless to say, although I enjoyed it immensely, Extras isn't as wonderful as its predecessors. Perhaps because we've grown so accustomed to Tally and her friends, that a new narrator instantly puts me a little on edge. Aya irritates me more than Tally ever did because all she ever cares about is being famous. I adore Frizz (Aya's love interest) though. Some of the funniest, literally laugh-out-loud moments contained him and Tally when they find out about his brain surge, Radical Honesty, which compells him to tell the truth. He almost surpassed my love for Zane, and is probably the reason this book received four stars. (Speaking of Zane, though... I WISH they'd have said his name. They always trailed off; it was so depressing. I think that was Westerfeld's aim though, so kudos. But still... sigh, Zane <3) A great ending, but like I first said... now I just feel empty D: ...more I can't believe that I am finished with this series. (What to start on next, hmmm.) This was my least favorite of the series. I really liked it for the first half. I liked Aya Fuse (cool name) and her brother, Hiro, and his friend, Ren. I liked the whole premise of popularity and fame being a commodity for living. I can't believe that I am saying this, but I didn't really like Tally in this book! Once, she came on the scene, I thought the writing became very sloppy. The whole second half of the st I can't believe that I am finished with this series. (What to start on next, hmmm.) This was my least favorite of the series. I really liked it for the first half. I liked Aya Fuse (cool name) and her brother, Hiro, and his friend, Ren. I liked the whole premise of popularity and fame being a commodity for living. I can't believe that I am saying this, but I didn't really like Tally in this book! Once, she came on the scene, I thought the writing became very sloppy. The whole second half of the story was flat for me. Westerfeld could have left in me in Aya Fuse's city and in her apartment in Shuffle Mansion with Moggle and I would have been much more satisfied. I wish that the authors of popular series, would take a little more thought about their story lines before they quickly release their sequels. None of the books that came after \"Uglies\" was as well thought out and captivating. Have the audio version, too. ...more When is it ever a good idea to add a fourth installment to a trilogy? Extras is not a Tally Youngblood story, but she appears in it. It takes place in Japan, where the economy is based on popularity. Aya Fuse wants to become famous by \"kicking\" a story that will attract everyone's attention, just like her brother, Hiro. So she goes undercover, and she stumbles on a very \"kickable\" story that will make her famous but also set her in danger. To be honest, I liked Aya better than Tally. Tally was a great heroine and one of my favs in Uglies, but in Extras she is hard Extras is not a Tally Youngblood story, but she appears in it. It takes place in Japan, where the economy is based on popularity. Aya Fuse wants to become famous by \"kicking\" a story that will attract everyone's attention, just like her brother, Hiro. So she goes undercover, and she stumbles on a very \"kickable\" story that will make her famous but also set her in danger. To be honest, I liked Aya better than Tally. Tally was a great heroine and one of my favs in Uglies, but in Extras she is hardly relatable. She is, in fact, kind of unlikable. Aya is sweet and I think and many people can relate with her, as she wants to be famous and be noticed for once. In a society that your status is uploaded on social media, Aya is closer to us than Tally; the first is a teen who struggles to find her own identity through others, the second an older teenager who had her momentum and now is saving the world. The story itself is okay, though the meanings that it gets through, like celebrity status and growing up are better than the actual story. The action isn't that great, and, to be honest, I've got a little bored by it towards the end. Speaking of which, the ending wasn't that good either, though Aya did develop as a character. Lastly the romance. Okay, I have to admit that, although I love Westerfeld's writing and consider him a great author, he just can't write romance. It always feels awkward in the end. I think the best he did was with Tally and Zayn, but Tally and David and Aya and Frizz seemed to luck chemistry, and the romance was underdeveloped. Other than those two facts, that cost the book two stars, Extras was a great book. I like that the author gives us food for thought through his teen adventure stories and characters that one can easily fall in love with and relate to. So, three out of five ...more The fourth, surprise volume in the Uglies no-longer-a-trilogy. I liked this way more than Specials , the last book in the series (which I actually kind of hated). This novel doesn't center around Tally, the protagonist of the previous three books, but around a new character, Aya Fuse, who's growing up in a post-Pretties world. The Important Teen Topic Westerfeld is tackling this time is fame, not beauty, as following Tally's act of liberation, the world has evolved into one where wealth and soc The fourth, surprise volume in the Uglies no-longer-a-trilogy. I liked this way more than Specials , the last book in the series (which I actually kind of hated). This novel doesn't center around Tally, the protagonist of the previous three books, but around a new character, Aya Fuse, who's growing up in a post-Pretties world. The Important Teen Topic Westerfeld is tackling this time is fame, not beauty, as following Tally's act of liberation, the world has evolved into one where wealth and social merit are derived purely from notoriety. In other words, Paris Hilton would still be in our faces all the time, dammit. Like a lot of Westerfeld's work, this book is the most enjoyable if you don't think about it too much. There's a fun, exciting action plot to be had here, but the whole world kind of falls apart if you ponder it for more than five seconds. How is it that Aya's city\u2014which is clearly not the same one as Tally's, as much is made of the language barrier later\u2014was set up in exactly the same way as Tally's? Especially when Uglies made each community seem so wonderfully isolated? And I really don't see the logic of the post-Pretty world, as it's left at the end of Specials , evolving so soon into the world Aya introduces us to. And\u2014but no. Let's go back to nothing thinking about this too hard, okay? Well, first: I also have to say that I find the idea of all these teenage characters\u2014Aya is fifteen \u2014doing and accomplishing all of this stuff on their own vaguely ridiculous, which officially makes me too old for these books. (Part of my brain can't stop thinking, Where are their PARENTS? ) But, uh. If you set all that aside, this really is a fun book! Really! And it provides a slightly more upbeat ending for Tally and David, which I really appreciate. So if you like the other books in this series\u2014or even just the first one\u2014this is a worthy addition. I'm much, much happier having this, instead of Specials , as my final impression of the Uglies world and these characters, and that's worth a lot, I think. ...more I am just going to pretend that this book doesn't exist! ALIENS????? ALIENS??????? ALIENS?????????? That's a cruel joke. I got so pissed I erased it off my Kindle.It's one of the few books I have abandoned in my life but it was spoiling the thrill and excitement that had built up in me. It's such a disappointing ending to the Uglies series - as if a completely different person came up with it. Even the writing is not at paar with the previous books. The action is abrupt. At one moment the charac I am just going to pretend that this book doesn't exist! ALIENS????? ALIENS??????? ALIENS?????????? That's a cruel joke. I got so pissed I erased it off my Kindle.It's one of the few books I have abandoned in my life but it was spoiling the thrill and excitement that had built up in me. It's such a disappointing ending to the Uglies series - as if a completely different person came up with it. Even the writing is not at paar with the previous books. The action is abrupt. At one moment the characters are talking and all of a sudden they are on hoverboards which came out of nowhere and running away from ALIENS. ALIENS??????????? \"Extras\" is the first book I give one star and am not guilt-ridden about it. I appreciate all the efforts and thoughts authors put into their work, all the sleepless nights and all the blocks they have to contend with so seldom do I dare say I disliked a particular book. I feel like I am deliberately undermining and trying to hurt the author this way. There's always something - at least a sentence, that impresses you. But gosh! Aya is such a crybaby! She has no idea why she wants to become popular and when she becomes a prominent \"kicker\" she begins grumbling and whining. And the love story with Frizz!!! Don't get me started! ALIENS??????? ...more Can I give this no stars? What was that? What was the purpose of this book? Ugh. I kind if hated Aya. She was whiny and no matter what situation came up, no matter how dire, ALL SHE CARED ABOUT WAS IF HER CAMERA WAS CATCHING IT. All she cared about was being a kicker. And what happened to Tally? She just seemed really annoyed the whole time, and not anything like her previous self. The plot, I felt, was also pretty loose. It's just about a fame obsessed girl who finds out about these \"freaks\" th Can I give this no stars? What was that? What was the purpose of this book? Ugh. I kind if hated Aya. She was whiny and no matter what situation came up, no matter how dire, ALL SHE CARED ABOUT WAS IF HER CAMERA WAS CATCHING IT. All she cared about was being a kicker. And what happened to Tally? She just seemed really annoyed the whole time, and not anything like her previous self. The plot, I felt, was also pretty loose. It's just about a fame obsessed girl who finds out about these \"freaks\" that she thinks are gonna take over the world, when in the end, all they want to do is make sure that the planet doesn't over populate. And I thought the Sly girls were going to be some huge awesome part of the book, but all that happens is they act like they don't know what's going on, then launch Aya into the sky, tell her they knew she was lying, and then tell her that OH YEAH IT'S FIIINNNE. Go on and kick out story! Sure thing! ??? Aya's \"relationship\" also just kind of happened, and it didn't build up AT ALL. They just suddenly cared about each other. Oh yeah, and then the ending really wrapped things up super well with Tally putting on a dress, going to Nana's party, and sneaking off with David to one of the gardens. (Please note the sarcasm) Why? Why was this book even written? Uuuugghghgh I'm EXTREMELY disappointed. -_- (I hate to be so harsh, but I was WAAYYY nitpicky with this one) OOOOOOHHHHHH and ALIENS? WHAT. THE. ACTUAL. HECK. When these strange silver creatures were sighted and investigated, I thought they were going to be some crazy plot twist enemy race that were going to change Aya and make her shed her flawed, selfish character. Well, of course, after all this trouble that surfaced around them, all they wanted to do was FREAKING BUILD A ROCKET. What was the point of any of this? Seriously? And to finish it all off, a children's book happy ending was the obvious choice for the end of this FABULOUSLY written book. *sarcasm*. We have the head alien, the sly girls, and tally all at the party, laughing at how well their stupid lives turned out. Yay. ...more Sorry, Scott. I'm gonna have to throw in the towel this time. I just give up. I loved all of your other books (Peeps, Uglies, Pretties, Specials, the Midnighters series) but I just can't, and I mean CAN'T , understand how this book wormed its way into existence. Why, Scott? Why? Why make such a despicable protagonist? You know, I actually felt antagonistic towards Aya, so I don't think the term \"protagonist\" even applies. I tried to love her, and try I did. But try as I might, I JUST HATED HER GUTS Sorry, Scott. I'm gonna have to throw in the towel this time. I just give up. I loved all of your other books (Peeps, Uglies, Pretties, Specials, the Midnighters series) but I just can't, and I mean CAN'T , understand how this book wormed its way into existence. Why, Scott? Why? Why make such a despicable protagonist? You know, I actually felt antagonistic towards Aya, so I don't think the term \"protagonist\" even applies. I tried to love her, and try I did. But try as I might, I JUST HATED HER GUTS. She's selfish...no, GREEDY, and all the ever wanted was fame. Maybe she did change some of her views in the end, but her attitude throughout the rest of the book ruined it for me. Why make such inaccurate accounts of Tally? She's not the monster she was made to be in this book, and I have no idea why you would even do something so evil to your own heroine. It's really sad. You build up Tally's character in three books, only to ruin it all in the fourth. I love your books, Scott, but this one... This one just doesn't quite make it in my list. ...more Set in the same \"Uglies\" universe as the previous three books, but set three years after Tally caused the \"mind-rain\" (when bubbleheads were given the choice to have their lesions repaired so they weren't empty-mindedly happy), this book takes place in Japan. Aya Fuse's city decides to award resources to people based on their reputation/fame. This is done by everybody being given their own feed (Internet) once of age and their own hovercam. The more often someone's feed is watched, or name is men Set in the same \"Uglies\" universe as the previous three books, but set three years after Tally caused the \"mind-rain\" (when bubbleheads were given the choice to have their lesions repaired so they weren't empty-mindedly happy), this book takes place in Japan. Aya Fuse's city decides to award resources to people based on their reputation/fame. This is done by everybody being given their own feed (Internet) once of age and their own hovercam. The more often someone's feed is watched, or name is mentioned, the higher their rank, and the more luxuries they are allowed. For example, the higher rank you have, the more luxurious your house can be, or clothes given to you. This is called \"face.\" People can also gain \"merits\" by doing good deeds, like finish homework on time, working hard, volunteering to babysit, etc. Aya is pretty desperate to raise her rank so when she finds a secret clique of girls who do tricks with their hoverboards (such as riding the mag-lev train), she decides to join them and secretly spy on them so she can \"kick\" their story. This leads to a discovery of hidden steel cylinders in a mountain which starts this avalanche of events that inevitably brings in Tally Youngblood and her group of Cutters. I admire the premise, but I do wish Westerfeld had gone more in depth about the type of fame-obsessed, notice-me society Aya lives in and the negative impact of it. While he does a good job of how relationships can be screwed due to the difference of ranks (called \"difference of ambition\" in her world, which is a reason people can break up their relationships, much like our \"irreconcilable differences\") or make things awkward, it doesn't go much further than that. Also, I found it a little eye-rolling that the heroine does attain a very very high rank in the end, after all, which kind of deflates the purpose of the book, or a purpose. This purpose being a look at the impact of such a society. I mean, seriously, it's like Aya rolls out through perfectly, despite the lies and hardships on the way. And she does \"truth-slant\" a lot. It doesn't seem like there's enough of a difference shown in her personality by the end of the book, so while she does understand truth-slanting to get ahead for something as shallow and frivolous as fame, she doesn't seem to fully get it. Tally's inclusion in the book as a peripheral character is an interesting difference from the past three books (two I've read). She seemed harsher and more violent seen from a third-person's viewpoint than when we're inside her head and see her struggles to rewire herself. Kind of brings into mind how we view ourselves is sometimes completely different from how others view us. Overall a good book, but not really one I would recommend buying, but only checking out. ...more So, *******Spoilers ahead******although not many since I don't feel like writing much about this fuckery******* Welcome to the world of Aya Tally 2.0 . Aya has one focus in life which is to become famous. In the new post-Tally world (of Japan), the goal is to become as noticed as you can. Think of it as YouTubers being ranked according to how many hits they get. The higher the hits, the more famous you are. Fame gets you out of being any type of normal productive member of society. You just run aro So, *******Spoilers ahead******although not many since I don't feel like writing much about this fuckery******* Welcome to the world of Aya Tally 2.0 . Aya has one focus in life which is to become famous. In the new post-Tally world (of Japan), the goal is to become as noticed as you can. Think of it as YouTubers being ranked according to how many hits they get. The higher the hits, the more famous you are. Fame gets you out of being any type of normal productive member of society. You just run around being famous. This is Aya's undying desire and she will do anything to get it. Including, but not limited to, backstabbing people. Aya infiltrates a secretive girly group, secretly videotaping them, which coincidentally leads to uncovering a huge mysterious mystery conspiracy secret something, which transitions to betraying her new friends and showing the video feed to all of Japan, which causes her to suddenly be chased by the secretive secret alien looking people (who aren't really aliens) and blah blah blah. There's also some insta-love and such stuff. Who decides to show up? Can you guess? Can you?!?!! DUN DUN DUN........ *drumroll* TALLY!!!!!!!! This is the moment where my brain turned off completely. David has two lines in the book just in case you're interested. Did I mention that you can get a modification and have manga eyes? Oh, yes. 1 Ninja-Bunneh-Running-Away ...more Yich. Not pretty. I didn't like the complication of the language barrier when it wasn't very clear. I hated the main character for her stupidity, pride, and assumptions. Its plot wasn't very engaging, and once they figure out what the Extras are doing, it jumps to the party scene. Tally's character is a lot harsher than before, as well. It was less along the same baseline that made the others good. The others were their titles because Tally was one. Tally was not an Extra. Overall, not worth it Yich. Not pretty. I didn't like the complication of the language barrier when it wasn't very clear. I hated the main character for her stupidity, pride, and assumptions. Its plot wasn't very engaging, and once they figure out what the Extras are doing, it jumps to the party scene. Tally's character is a lot harsher than before, as well. It was less along the same baseline that made the others good. The others were their titles because Tally was one. Tally was not an Extra. Overall, not worth it for the author to have written it. ...more I think this novel was so creative. The constant monitoring of your stats reminds me of all the stuff I do with Facebook and Twitter and blogging. It's easy to see how this could happen in the future. What a strange world. There is an interesting arc to my appreciation of Extras. I wasn't so sure at first. The girl on the front is obviously not Tally Youngblood, and so I was rather nervous about starting a Westerfeld book that wasn't about Tally Youngblood. But start it I did, and for the first half or so I was in young adult fiction bliss. Extras does it all right when it comes to futuristic fiction with a bit of a social commentary. Insert Aya Fuse, a fifteen-year-old in post-mind-rain (see Specials) Japan, where There is an interesting arc to my appreciation of Extras. I wasn't so sure at first. The girl on the front is obviously not Tally Youngblood, and so I was rather nervous about starting a Westerfeld book that wasn't about Tally Youngblood. But start it I did, and for the first half or so I was in young adult fiction bliss. Extras does it all right when it comes to futuristic fiction with a bit of a social commentary. Insert Aya Fuse, a fifteen-year-old in post-mind-rain (see Specials) Japan, where they've set up the face-rank system. Your place in society is determined by your face-rank, or how much people talk about you. And poor Aya is stuck at about 400,000. But there is hope for Aya! If she can find a story to kick, she can catapult herself into top-20,000 in no time. It's just a matter of finding that perfect kickable story. And it lands in her lap. The idea of a society where popularity of a feed (read: blog) is more important than how much money you make or what you wear, or what you do for a living is closer on the global horizon than you might think, in a world of YouTube and mySpace. And of course, this makes Extras CHOCK full of neato futuristic stuff (that's a technical term). Hovercams, mag-lev trains, smart matter (matter than can transform itself at any time), wall screens, eyescreens, skintennae, hoverball rigs. Keep in mind, this is all that first half of the book I liked. I wanted to like the last half, really, I did. But it didn't really have an ending. Not a Scott Westerfeld ending, at least. Other Scott Westerfeld endings had crazy turns, like (spoiler warning) Tally abandoning reason and becoming pretty, even thought it screws with your brain, or like Tally turning Special, even though it screws with your brain, or Tally not fixing her brain after she fixes everyone else's to keep things in order. No. At the end of Extras, we learn that it was all a big misunderstanding and then go to a party. Wha....? Of course, if Scott Westerfeld writes something else to follow this one, I'll read it because I love his books, and I want him to fix this ending. ...more I would give this 2.5 It was no where near as good as Uglies-though it was just as enjoyable as 'Specials'. If you're a fan of the original three books, I strongly recommend reading this one as well! If you thought the first three were just so-so, then give this one a miss. Think of an ultramodern city where everything that matters is fame and reputation. Think about a society where everyone can be \u201ckickers\u201d or journalists, where everyone can be \u201ctech-heads\u201d or inventors, where everyone can be \u201csurge-monkeys\u201d and undergo as many surgeries as they can in the name of fashion. Think of a city swathed in big futuristic bubble, eyed 24/7 by a mechanical Big Brother. Sounds like the world just became a blown-up version of American Idol, eh? Extras, the fourth installment i Think of an ultramodern city where everything that matters is fame and reputation. Think about a society where everyone can be \u201ckickers\u201d or journalists, where everyone can be \u201ctech-heads\u201d or inventors, where everyone can be \u201csurge-monkeys\u201d and undergo as many surgeries as they can in the name of fashion. Think of a city swathed in big futuristic bubble, eyed 24/7 by a mechanical Big Brother. Sounds like the world just became a blown-up version of American Idol, eh? Extras, the fourth installment in the Uglies trilogy-plus-one, kicks off with this new setting and a couple of new plot devices, blowing my mind completely. Our protagonist this time is a wee bit like our Ugly-verse Tally Youngblood: just a confused, fame-hungry fifteen-year-old Japanese girl named Aya Fuse. She\u2019s more than determined to gain celebrity status and her way to do this is to follow her brother\u2019s steps: be a kicker. With the help of her hovercam (a floating camera the size of a halved soccer ball, programmed with some kind of Artificial Intelligence\u2014for some weird reason I\u2019m thinking of the Haro thingy from Gundam Seed), Aya records everything, hoping to \u201ckick\u201d an incredible story that can boost her face rank to the top one thousand. After a string of mixed adventures and misadventures, Aya finally stumbles upon a terrible secret, one that involves not only her future but also that of the whole world. From the introduction of the \u201creputation economy\u201d in modern Japan, you\u2019ll easily get that Westerfeld has weaved a satire of sorts about our society today, which is obsessed with popularity shows and such. More importantly, the author shows us what will happen if everyone is equally given a chance to determine his individual value\u2014in ranks\u2014by excessive media exposure. I enjoyed this book immensely because as a journalist-in-training myself, it made me think more about media theories, the ethical dilemmas of citizen journalism and the same old arguments behind \u201cbad\u201d and \u201cgood\u201d publicity. It\u2019s as if I was handed another case study, only this time I had extreme fun analyzing it. I didn\u2019t ponder much about the new set of characters. In my honest opinion, they\u2019re not three-dimensional at all. I had trouble imagining them as real people in the beginning\u2014seriously, how do you picture a person with \u201cmanga eyes\u201d surge without initially thinking of him as an anime? Or a girl with a friendly hovercam without imagining her as Lacus Clyne (ALL RIGHT, maybe it\u2019s just the anime addict in me but still\u2026)? They\u2019re almost like cardboard cutouts to me. I adjusted as the story progresses though, when I\u2019m introduced to the characters\u2019 own quirks and imperfections. But like I said, there\u2019s not much time to develop them fully\u2014the pace is quick as always (especially in the latter part. The beginning\u2019s a bit slow). This time around Westerfeld really focused on the plot, and for that, I\u2019m letting him off the hook (LOL). For the record, this is the first time I commend a book with not-so-developed characters\u2014most of the books I really like have characters that propel the story into unfolding its glory. Well, you always have an exception. :) A story of truth-slanting, betrayal, friendship, bravery, and human nature, Extras is one of the few young adult novels that is more than just what it seems. There was an anticlimactic element lodged near the ending (something I still consider awe-inspiring because it reminds me of one of my favorite mecha series, Gundam Wing), but the final chapter gives way to a more hopeful future for humanity. I\u2019m recommending this. :D ...more Despite that Extras was written for an audience of teenage girls I rather enjoyed it. It was a quick, easy read that kept me interested as it moved splendidly along...until we came nigh of its conclusion and then the floor sort of just dropped out of the story. *Here there be spoilers* The story revolves around Aya Fuse, who at the tender age of fifteen is desperate for attention--fame being the only way to become rich in the city of the future's \"Reputation Economy.\" You heard that right. I know Despite that Extras was written for an audience of teenage girls I rather enjoyed it. It was a quick, easy read that kept me interested as it moved splendidly along...until we came nigh of its conclusion and then the floor sort of just dropped out of the story. *Here there be spoilers* The story revolves around Aya Fuse, who at the tender age of fifteen is desperate for attention--fame being the only way to become rich in the city of the future's \"Reputation Economy.\" You heard that right. I know it sounds stupid, but the city built its economy around two ideas: merits(i.e. money...but don't call it money because that's for primitive morons like us) and fame. Merits are for schlubs who do the grunt work--ditch diggers, teachers, proctologists ((There aren't enough merits in the world for me to be a proctologist...but I digress)) In other words, the help: \"Be a dear and clean up that vomit.\" They are hardly ever mentioned. Fame is the other fork in the road, and down this fork everyone adores you and everything that you ever wanted just magically pops out of the wall--I'm not kidding. Which way does Aya chose? That's a toughie, right? Hardly. Like anyone else with a touch of ambition and brains she opts for the fame, which begs the question: who would ever unclog her toilet? This is a legitimate question. If doing a crazy stunt--say mag-surfing on a bullet train--would make you rich why would you ever sink your arms up to your elbows in someone else's filth? You wouldn't. The world would be a \"Look At Me\" economy and nothing would ever get done. Yet for this book the philosophy is never questioned, and thus works beautifully. Aya proves my point by immediately doing something dreadfully dangerous in order to Kick a story. It turns out she is a teen journalist and she's hot on a lead--the Sly Girls. The Sly girls are rebels. They do super-duper crazy stunts, but do so in secret(I guess there are people who do like to work a plunger.) They make no sense. Adrenaline junkies are almost always exhibitions but the story flows along so nicely you don't even notice. You see, Aya and the Sly Girls discover a race of Aliens who have carved out a mountain near the city. Now is Aya's big chance to be famous because her kicking story is that the aliens are about to destroy the world! Except they aren't. *Sigh* Here's where the story falls apart for me. The \"aliens\" are actually surgically augmented humans who are trying to save the planet from...drum roll please...humans. Ugh! And they are saving the planet in the most ridiculous fashion. They are stealing metal from abandoned, \"Rusty\" cities and are then shooting the metal into orbit where they plan to build a space colony. Supposedly this will stop the evil humans from spreading out and overrunning the wild open spaces, despite the fact there aren't that many humans left after the devastating Diego war. So everyone turns out to be a good guy. There wasn't ever any real danger to our heroes. And we get a dose of enviro-preaching about the evils of mining and over population. That's what I call a sucky ending--though some of you with the high brows might call it anti-climatic. I was hoping for more. Three stars for an engaging writing style and a good beginning. ...more Okay, this is the very LAST book I am going to read by Scott Westerfeld! I love his dystopic world in the future with all the imaginative people and ways to be. His mysteries and conflicts which send the protagonists, whether they are uglies, pretties, specials, or extras, are quite exciting and keep you reading to see the solution. But the last two books, Specials and Extras, have now put him into the writing genre of Eco-Novelist. His message of it would be better to change your body to a zero Okay, this is the very LAST book I am going to read by Scott Westerfeld! I love his dystopic world in the future with all the imaginative people and ways to be. His mysteries and conflicts which send the protagonists, whether they are uglies, pretties, specials, or extras, are quite exciting and keep you reading to see the solution. But the last two books, Specials and Extras, have now put him into the writing genre of Eco-Novelist. His message of it would be better to change your body to a zero gravity atmosphere and send yourself into an endless orbit around the earth, so that the earth can be preserved from any more ravages from humans, IS RIDICULOUS. SIMPLY RIDICULOUS. He just lost me forever on this one. So the Extras are not the Japanese kids, but the Extra-terrestrials who are his real heroes here, trying to save the planet from man. Furthermore, his message reflects very thoroughly an atheist viewpoint that there is no kind Heavenly Father, creator of the earth and more, who placed humans here to till and take care of the earth. Once again, as I've said before, he values the earth more than people, and that is just bass-ackwards. So Mr. Eco-novelist, I'm out! This would be a stupid movie. ...more In my opinion,the book is disappointing, because in the last 3 books the stories hook the readers attention. In this is book I found that I did not like the main idea, and the main character was a stuck-up 15 year old girl that really got on my nerves. And even though the old characters were in the book, the old main character (Tally Youngblood) was a totally different character! I personally think the series should have ended on The Specials. It was a HUGE struggle just to finish the book and l In my opinion,the book is disappointing, because in the last 3 books the stories hook the readers attention. In this is book I found that I did not like the main idea, and the main character was a stuck-up 15 year old girl that really got on my nerves. And even though the old characters were in the book, the old main character (Tally Youngblood) was a totally different character! I personally think the series should have ended on The Specials. It was a HUGE struggle just to finish the book and left me wanting to drop the book and never pick it up again. ...more AWESOME!!! :D I was sooooo excited when I found out there was a fourth book, although it took me forever to get my hands on it; I'm so glad that I did! I liked the way Westerfeld combined the new characters w/ the characters from uglies/pretties/specials. OMG, and the very end made me SO HAPPY XD lol. This series definitely should have stopped with the third book. I enjoyed the series until this book, and then it just got ridiculous. Alien creatures, really? COME ON. The entire plot was so over the top and unbelievable, I was just waiting for it to be over. So disappointed that the author got greedy trying to make more money and threw this terrible book together. 3.5 Extras (Uglies #4), Scott Westerfeld Summary: Fans of the Uglies series should just avoid this book. Anyone who's not a fan or has never read the others may like this book, but otherwise it's a blemish on an otherwise great book series. Characterizations are all over the place, and it becomes rather confusing and aimless as it goes on. The new choice of setting is cool, but it's not enough to save this book. 2.5/5 stars. I never thought I'd see the day when I'd give an Uglies book such a low grade. I love that series more than I prob Summary: Fans of the Uglies series should just avoid this book. Anyone who's not a fan or has never read the others may like this book, but otherwise it's a blemish on an otherwise great book series. Characterizations are all over the place, and it becomes rather confusing and aimless as it goes on. The new choice of setting is cool, but it's not enough to save this book. 2.5/5 stars. I never thought I'd see the day when I'd give an Uglies book such a low grade. I love that series more than I probably should, really. I always liked the society of 'pretty' people, the 'uglies' with free will, and the 'specials' behind it all, but the books were always rather shallow and it always ended with Tally getting what she wanted in the beginning - whether it was to be pretty or to have free will. Still, though, I stuck to it loyally, wanting to see what happened. I wish that it had ended in a trilogy, honestly, because what's been read cannot be unread. Trust me, I've been trying to get rid of Breaking Dawn for a long time now. [image error] Extras takes place after the Uglies trilogy and can sort of kind of stand on its own. It explains what you need to know about the series in a few short pages, so you can read it without having read the rest of the series. I would personally not recommend this, and I suggest you go and read the rest of the books and then skip over this one. Aya Fuse lives in Japan, which is kind of cool. I really wish they had expanded on the culture of new-Japan, because it was the best part of the book to me. Unlike Pretties , where you're forced into having surgery at sixteen, you can choose when and what surgery you have. Status is no longer decided by parties or overall 'pretty-ness', but rather how popular your feeds are. Feeds are obviously the internet. It doesn't take a genius to figure this out. Aya is ridiculously low on the feed list, so she's obviously not very happy in this fame-driven, superficial society. She decides to do a story about this group of girls that sneaks out of the city and has been doing weird stuff. After telling this story on her feed, she skyrockets up to number two in popularity and gets a cool apartment and everything. Then Tally has to come and ruin whatever fun the book was having. Seriously, the book was just fine up until she came in and crashed the party. It's like if you were forced to invite someone that you didn't like to your birthday party, and they came and ate your cake and sneezed on your presents and kicked your dog. Well, maybe that's a little extreme. You see, Tally forces the plot into motion, and she keeps it going. But it takes a completely different direction than the one it was originally taking. A girl's rise to fame and eventual fall was what the first half promised. And I was going to be okay with it. Sure, there were little hints that there would be action in it, but it didn't seem like there was going to be much but maybe a hover board battle or something. I guess I got one thing right, though. There are hover board battles. A lot of hover board battles. It's like Sonic Riders , but with less hedgehogs. The plot of the second half is pretty much aimless. They run around trying to stop some terrorists or something. That sort of gets resolved, and then they go to a party for the rest of the book. And Aya stays famous and is now BFFs with Tally. Yes, I'm serious. So basically, our protagonist has gained nothing from this life changing experience. She hasn't decided to sacrifice her fame for her family and friends, decided that fame isn't worth being a traitorous backstabber. No, she remains famous and very happy about that. So yes, this book was a waste of time. The characters are pretty boring, actually. Tally's also been completely flipped from what she was at the end of Specials . She's brutal, snippy, and madly in love with David, I guess. The rest of her crew just sort of are there to be in the book, and Aya herself is a load of wasted potential. I don't expect every character to completely change their ways, but Aya did not evolve in any way throughout the entire book. If you're a fan of the Uglies series, it might be best to avoid this book. It adds pretty much nothing to the original plot, though it adds a cool location to learn about. So if you have to read this book, only read to the halfway point. Or you could read all the way through, but Tally as a character is pretty much ruined by this book, at least in my eyes. Still, it's not the worst read in the entire world, and if I hadn't been so fond of the Uglies trilogy, I probably would have rated this higher. If you're interested in the series, start at Uglies and finish at Specials . Completely avoid this if you can. 2.5/5 stars ...more I am so proud of you Scott - you have FINALLY learned, after 3 whole books of trial and error, how to grasp the fine art of writing for the young adult genre! Congratz!! I am so pleased that my investment in this series paid off - eventually. Extras was significantly more enjoyable than its predecessors. The plot was executed much better, the characters actually had a bit of development and there was a satisfying ending with no loopholes. I think that the reason that I enjoyed this novel so much m I am so proud of you Scott - you have FINALLY learned, after 3 whole books of trial and error, how to grasp the fine art of writing for the young adult genre! Congratz!! I am so pleased that my investment in this series paid off - eventually. Extras was significantly more enjoyable than its predecessors. The plot was executed much better, the characters actually had a bit of development and there was a satisfying ending with no loopholes. I think that the reason that I enjoyed this novel so much more was because of the fact that this story was quite separate from the mediocre Uglies/Pretties/Specials and (bonus) I no longer had to put up with Tally as our protagonist. Aya, although she too was selfish and na\u00efve and frustrating occasionally, was no where near the level of annoying that Tally was. The supporting characters were interesting and actually relevant to the movement of the plot. The relationships were also well - done, especially the brother/sister dynamic. I found the concept of this story very interesting since it was so different compared to the rest of the series. Success in this reality is measured by how much fame one can acquire (like American Idol), rather than how pretty your face is. Both are unstable ethics, but interesting none the less. The plot as a whole was considerably stronger -it was so INTRIGUING with decent pacing and everything wrapped up well. However, some of the annoying characteristics of Scott's writing has persevered, like the infuriating ambiguity. It took me a good 250+ pages to actually have the revelation that this novel is set in Japan, and that was only after one of the characters explicitly said that she was speaking in Japanese. The writing style was, at times, still a bit crude like it had been written by a 12 year-old. The descriptive pieces comprised of some excruciatingly simple images and all of the similes, I swear to God, were \"{insert what teenage character is doing} like a littlie\". Oh, and the uncreative names. Like the innovative 'Uglyville', the bad-ass clique of mysterious girls who perform dangerous tricks in secrecy were christened badly - 'The Sly Girls'. Sly. Girls. Seriously? Yeah, I'm pretty crap at coming up with team names too, but come on!! Scott certainly has a skill for thinking up new and interesting concepts and he constructs his worlds masterfully, introducing the vocabulary and practises of the times with ease. His writing could really do with a make-over, just to keep things more interesting and less repetitive. 'Extras' was a fantastic finale to a series which I previously thought wasn't really going anywhere. If you felt underwhelmed by the Uglies trilogy, I still highly recommend giving 'Extras' a go because it is evident that Westerfeld has really stepped up his game. At long last. ...more", "Title": "Extras"},
