{"Comments": "Very close to a 3. Downgraded to a 2 because Lahiri can do SO much better. This book was just too chilly for me. Years, decades,<---M> generations pass</---M>, but people don't grow, change or express themselves- they just keep bitterness, love, sadness, guilt equally bottled up, and indulge in quiet renunciation (Subhash) or witchy selfishness (Gauri). (I've never seen any of the stereotypically bleak Scandinavian films (Bergman et al.) but I imagine that they would feel like this book does). Lahiri is undoub Very close to a 3. Downgraded to a 2 because Lahiri can do SO much better. This book was just too chilly for me. Years, decades, generations pass, but people don't grow, change or express themselves- they just keep bitterness, love, sadness, guilt equally bottled up, and indulge in quiet renunciation (Subhash) or witchy selfishness (Gauri). (I've never seen any of the stereotypically bleak Scandinavian films (Bergman et al.) but I imagine that they would feel like this book does). Lahiri is undoubtedly talented - I loved the Namesake, and thought Unaccustomed Earth was great. But this book seems like a fascinating idea grown stiff in the telling. I'm always interested when a writer takes on the \"bad mother\" (not the dominating or disapproving mother, which are common enough, but the mother who doesn't instantly and instinctively put motherhood and her children first above all things), because she is such a charged figure in our current culture. But Lahiri's take ends up being not particularly nuanced or interesting - she's rather punishing and uncompromising with Gauri, and that story is as old as the hills.<---F> Skippable</---F>. ...more \"It was as if Udayan were there, speaking to him, teasing him. He felt their loyalty to one another, their affection, stretched halfway across the world. Stretched perhaps to the breaking point by all that now stood between them, but at the same time refusing to break.\" You don't have to be in a certain place, at a certain time to be able to catch the faint thrum of the lifeblood coursing through the pages of this book, live the heartbreak of its characters, to develop a sense of solidarity wit \"It was as if Udayan were there, speaking to him, teasing him. He felt their loyalty to one another, their affection, stretched halfway across the world. Stretched perhaps to the breaking point by all that now stood between them, but at the same time refusing to break.\" You don't have to be in a certain place, at a certain time to be able to catch the faint thrum of the lifeblood coursing through the pages of this book, live the heartbreak of its characters, to develop a sense of solidarity with their loss and desperation, to gaze at the spectacle of their unravelling fates across continents. But it will help if you have lived, at some point in time, in a city christened Calcutta by the British and rechristened Kolkata (the pure Bengali name) centuries later by a government intent on erasing telling signs of a nation's unfortunate colonial past. It will help if you have ever felt rudderless, adrift in a sea of anonymous human faces, unable to come to terms with a painful event, its aftermath too profound and terrible for you to grasp at once. It will help if you are carrying on with a half-life thousands of miles away from the land of your birth, toeing the line of divide between two distinct yet similar worlds. I have lived near Tollygunge all my life - a sort of an overlapping region between the place where I spent the earliest years of my childhood and the place where I grew into a young woman. Every time I arrive at the beginning of Tollygunge Circular Road from another portion of the city, I know with a comforting certainty that I am close to home, close to the assurance of rest and a meal, close to where my loved ones await my return as yet another day reaches its inevitable end. And Ms Lahiri has brought my humble, modest, familiar Tollygunge to life. Reminded me that my decrepit and majestic city has been witness to the rise and decline of too many political regimes, to the bloodletting during senseless communal riots and a terrible famine manufactured by a colonial administration too busy fighting a world war. That my city has been living for centuries before I was born, like a mythical, gargantuan beast and that it would continue to throb with life and activity years after I am gone. How silly is it that in the eagerness to match steps with the developed world, to achieve set targets, we forget the blood-soaked, tear-streaked history of the country we live in, that we are inextricably bound to the political upheavals which serve as foundation stones to our present state of equanimity, to the sheer tragedy and violence of turbulent times. Neither am I <---A>Jhumpa Lahiri</---A>'s biggest fan nor her harshest critic. My reaction to her writing has been very subdued so far. In addition, Ms Lahiri never seems to accomplish anything else other than rehashing the same old themes of nostalgia, the very cliched search for identity and the predictable rigmarole in novels recounting the immigrant experience. But with <+++>The Lowland</+++> , she has achieved something monumental, managed to rekindle an extinguished flame within me. Perhaps her achievement lies in an accurate enactment of that unmistakable sensation of being anchored to a place and a way of life, of being pulled towards a powerful centre. Whatever the case maybe, my past resentment about her 'undeserved' Pulitzer win is now gone as if it never was. It's like she has reached out to me from across the shores of the Pacific, held my hand and gently propelled me towards a life-like portrait of Calcutta, my Kolkata, the maddening, mystifying, glorious and ugly city of my birth which will remain as beloved to me by any other name, towards the people who inhabit its upscale townships and dingy shanties, towards the unknown stories of hardship and triumph which breathe life into this jungle of steel, brick and mortar, towards the struggles of an ill-fated generation now forgotten in the mad dash for globalization, towards a culture which has molded me into what I am today. It felt like looking into a mirror after a prolonged gap and spotting something hitherto undetected in that reflection. It felt like remembering something important. I won't go into the subject of Udayan's misguided idealism and the havoc it wreaked in the lives of his loved ones. I won't elaborate on how Subhash ended up living a proxy life, responsibly stepping up to assume all the roles designated for his brother. I will not retrace Gauri's path to self-discovery and emancipation from the assigned identities of bereaved widow, dutiful daughter-in-law, mere wife and mother. And I certainly will not defend or condemn her refusal to let her life be defined by the flawed choices of the man she loved. Instead I would only leave you with a polite request to place your faith in the Booker committee's judgement and read this. Regardless of where you may have grown up - Rhode Island or Tollygunge - irrespective of whichever movement has left its indelible mark on the socio-political landscape of your nation - SDS or Naxalite agitation - Ms Lahiri will take you on a trip down memory lane, back to your roots, to the values that reside at your core and hold you together, to the people you have left behind somewhere in this long, befuddling journey of life but cannot ever forget. And she may remind you of who you used to be once and what you are now. ...more Wow. Jhumpa Lahiri's THE LOWLAND is a big novel with the power of her best short stories. It follows the life of <---C>Subhash Mitra</---C> as he grows up in Calcutta and then moves to America--typical fare for Lahiri, but with much broader scope and even cleaner, crisper writing than the Pulitzer Prize winner has shown in the past. With a sweeping, addictive plot, THE LOWLAND still peels naked the identities brother, lover, father, and mother, often with just a small, simple gesture. It challenges the politi Wow. Jhumpa Lahiri's THE LOWLAND is a big novel with the power of her best short stories. It follows the life of Subhash Mitra as he grows up in Calcutta and then moves to America--typical fare for Lahiri, but with much broader scope and even cleaner, crisper writing than the Pulitzer Prize winner has shown in the past. With a sweeping, addictive plot, THE LOWLAND still peels naked the identities brother, lover, father, and mother, often with just a small, simple gesture. It challenges the politics of nationality with both pathetic desperation and revolutionary zeal. It makes you want and hope and despair with devastating stories of passion and indifference. I won't write much about the plot because publication's still so far off, plus: spoilers. But when you read it we need to talk: I could write essays on the relationship between the two brother or the sensory magic Lahiri effortlessly conjures in the most simple domestic chores. But simply put: Jhumpa Lahiri might be my favorite living writer, and this is definitely my favorite of her books. ...more Twilight\u2019s Children He had found the letter under his brother\u2019s bed. He had not minded the dust that lit up the damp light of the room. He had read it immediately. But now that he was back in his room, he took it out again, wanting to read it one more time, as always. He remembered all the letters he used to receive from India and of how he could hear his Udayan\u2019s childhood voice as he read it, even when the voice was long changed. In this letter he could not. This time he picked up from the third Twilight\u2019s Children He had found the letter under his brother\u2019s bed. He had not minded the dust that lit up the damp light of the room. He had read it immediately. But now that he was back in his room, he took it out again, wanting to read it one more time, as always. He remembered all the letters he used to receive from India and of how he could hear his Udayan\u2019s childhood voice as he read it, even when the voice was long changed. In this letter he could not. This time he picked up from the third page of the letter, glancing at the parts that did not make sense to him. What defines identity once you are away from your center? What defines the center when you are away from our identity? He wondered why Udayan would take the trouble to write all this when it must have been such a struggle to write at all. With that hand of his\u2026 Is it because he wanted to take comfort in talking with me? Or does he just write whatever comes to mind, arrange them in a semblance of order and mail them across the oceans? He looked back at the page. Is it anger in the obvious betterment seen all around you? Is it shame that you were never really part of it? That you were not part of building it? And instead of building one you have just taken the easier path? Is it pride, perhaps, in your independence? Is it the blustering of the intolerable journalist when he talks about the better \u2018systems\u2019? Is it just a sense of loss of all that is left behind? He skipped the last few lines and then skipped to the next page. Udayan\u2019s handwriting always used to deteriorate towards the end of a page and now it was almost unreadable. \u2018Not that I am missing much,\u2019 he said to himself. Wherein lies the center of the modern man\u2019s existence? Is it in an imaginary village consisting of all that mattered to him as he was growing up - do they ever break that circle? Or is it constantly expanded as you grow? Or is it constantly redefined? If you don\u2019t have the less developed multitudes (relatives like me) to look upon you from that left-behind circle, will any achievement truly matter in life? Can your center, your point of reference and your identity, only be defined from a transpositional view from below? Or is It from a patriarchal view from above that leaves you smarting? He was not sure why Udayan had taken to writing to him as if the roles were reversed - as if he was the one who had never set foot beyond his home city and as if Udayan was the one who had roamed the world and thought about a home that had been left behind with such ease. Of course, Udayan wouldn\u2019t have been able to leave behind anything. He had been able to. \u2018With ease,\u2019 he repeated doubtfully. He had skipped ahead again without noticing it but decided to carry on. He knew he would be reading it over later. Again. What of the constant sense that assaults you of not being part of the \u2018real\u2019 world - of the world you inhabit - the ones outside your country, your center being somehow artificial? Is it this artificiality that gives you wings? Soaring in a flight of fancy to heights you wouldn\u2019t have dreamed of back where the real things are? It is not as if he didn\u2019t know that this was probably Udayan\u2019s way of teasing him into coming back home. And it is not as if he didn\u2019t know why it was never posted. He started skipping across the letter faster, eager to reach where he was addressed directly. Eager to see if could recapture the childhood voice when he read his brother addressing him directly instead of talking platitudes. He uttered a faint hum as he skipped across increasingly badly scribbled lines. Is it a requirement to step outside the circle to be able to step outside it? \u2026 How do you view the real world then? Are they the dream now that you are living the dream? \u2026 Can you sleep knowing that the dream is never to be dreamt? \u2026 Why wouldn\u2019t you try to dream up some solutions as well then? Why wouldn\u2019t you start believing that your newfound wings would work in that \u2018real\u2019 world too? Why wouldn\u2019t you even consider flying back? \u2026 Why wouldn\u2019t you attempt to solve all the problems? Even if you never attempt it, you know that with these wings of yours, any problem is an easy one, especially those - the ones in that \u2018real\u2019 world. The shadow world of reality. He felt a faint irritation with his brother now. What right did he have to lecture? What had he done except read a bunch of books and preach around? Then he checked himself. Udayan had always stopped teasing whenever he got angry. He used to always know why. It is not necessary, of course, that the circle of identity had to be a country or a village or a society or family - stepping outside your circle, outside our reality gives you wings and solutions - but the solutions and the wings are never to be allowed back in - you may step back in but you step back in as yourself, without the fancy stuff. And then you have to forget the dream. You can only inhabit the twilight or the sunrise. Never both. Ah, he remembered, now is when he talks about the book he had asked me to send to Anita. Udayan had ended up reading it first. Mostly because one of the main characters in the book shared his name. He tried to recollect the little he had read of the book before wrapping it. He knew that much of Udayan\u2019s ramblings in this letter might have come from the book. After all, there were some parallels. It was the eternal afterlife of the exile that Jhumpa Lahiri was always expert at dissecting. \u2018Maybe it was all a build up towards telling me why I should read it too,\u2019 he mused, \u2018maybe he was not taunting me at all\u2019. Or maybe he felt the book could do that job much better. There are some books which once read you have a compulsion to make others read - as if the enjoyment is not complete until it is shared. Until you can see the expression of amazement in the other\u2019s face when they have read too - your enjoyment growing in the realization of theirs. This book is not like that - it is a quiet pleasure to read but there is no expectation of pleasure from the sharing of it - there is no compulsion to talk about it - there is nothing much to talk about really. It is boring in its own way: a beautiful and boring stream that you saw on your way - you paused to see it but you don\u2019t run home to get your wife to stare at it together. I was excited to read it, to see how it would capture the times that we have lived through. Times that held so much meaning for us. But, it was not meant to be of the masses and the loudness of the massed struggle - just of the individuals and of the quietness of their desperations \u2014 it requires no knowledge of our complicated history or the nuances of our anger that ignited the streets. It was not even remotely concerned about all that\u2026 He started searching for the book among the shelves. Then under the bed. His brother loved to sleep with a book and let it slide under his bed as one arm arced and drooped. There it was. Almost brand new. Only two pages bent to mark places to return to. He turned back to the letter. We are Twilight\u2019s Children, brother, the Midnight\u2019s Children was still some way ahead of us - we are the ones without definition. We were born before the darkness set in, and the day too far off. After reading The Namesake (the one that you had sent me years ago - ordering me to read it and that you wanted me to get a sense of your University student life), I searched for something new in this one\u2026 trying to find what excited the author, trying to get a glimpse into your life - the intimacy with the characters was there - that was expected, that was known; the reality of private lives was there - again known, again expected. What set this apart from the other one? Is it the suffering? But what is suffering? Where was it? I couldn\u2019t see it? Is it necessary that your own anguish has to be less than that of a character\u2019s for you to be able to feel empathy? But, when I read about this one (in an editorial review), I half thought I could get you to read it... to understand me - another book from the same author. There seemed to be a symmetry to that. But it was not to be. It was not about Bengal, at least not the Bengal that I lived through\u2026 it was not to be. I am told the author grew up in Rhode island - that intimacy is visible. Rhode island becomes more of a home to the reader than his own Bengal. Again, my purposes were not being served by the author. He looked at the marked pages of the book again and noticed that both seemed to be underlined faintly on lines that described their city. The language was exquisite. Maybe the time away from his expected times and places put him off the book. Udayan was never one for relishing language. He always wanted meanings and words to speak loud and bold. You had told that you would try to read this before sending it to me. If you managed to complete the book, you must have realized that the book is not very atypical of Lahiri. I am afraid she will find it hard to win another Booker until she breaks out of her own mould or a Booker Committee comes along that doesn\u2019t take the trouble to have read the previous winners. He smiled at his brother\u2019s silly mistake and continued reading. But he found that he was skipping through the lines now, without reading much. Soon he had reached the end of the letter. It did not end with the usual wishes and he knew that it had not been finished. He quietly flipped back to the beginning again. He could hear the milkman cycling outside on his early morning rounds. Their relationship had been stretched - stretched halfway across the world - refusing to break, no matter how much he tried. He walked slowly to the window-sill and lit the candle he had placed here. He watched as the ashes settled nearby and turned away as the breeze started to carry them away. ...more I've been postponing writing a review of this book because I'm not sure what I can say that hasn't been already said by others in a more eloquent fashion. So I'll record here my lingering reaction, the feeling that has stayed with me after two months: This book is haunting and haunted. A pair of linked tragedies disrupt forever the lives of three generations. Like in The Infatuations, by Javier Marias, several characters are unable to let go, though the response in Marias's characters is more rat I've been postponing writing a review of this book because I'm not sure what I can say that hasn't been already said by others in a more eloquent fashion. So I'll record here my lingering reaction, the feeling that has stayed with me after two months: This book is haunting and haunted. A pair of linked tragedies disrupt forever the lives of three generations. Like in The Infatuations, by Javier Marias, several characters are unable to let go, though the response in Marias's characters is more rationalized, analyzed over and over, while in <+++>The Lowland</+++> it leaves the characters partially stunted, emotionally paralyzed and sort of vacant. Of course, the individual reactions vary, but there's this common empty room in their hearts that refuses to be filled. Lahiri drives this point home painfully and beautifully through actual vacated spaces: balconies, home offices, beds, chairs, etc. where the absent linger in spirit, forever haunting the ones who stayed. This is a powerful emotional read, and obviously a very sad one, though I could discern mostly hope in the final pages. If you're looking for a grand, sweeping, but intimate novel that will find a spot in your heart and refuse to let go, don't miss this one. ...more Two brothers, born in India before partition, come of political age in the 1960s. One brother becomes politically active, the other doesn\u2019t, and their lives unfold in completely disparate ways. Tragedy is inevitable, and families struggle to readjust and heal. Some adjust better than others. The word \u2018Potentially\u2019 should have preceded the publisher\u2019s blurb of \u201cSuspenseful, sweeping, piercingly intimate\u201d, because the opportunities to create that kind of story were squandered. There was a rich subs Two brothers, born in India before partition, come of political age in the 1960s. One brother becomes politically active, the other doesn\u2019t, and their lives unfold in completely disparate ways. Tragedy is inevitable, and families struggle to readjust and heal. Some adjust better than others. The word \u2018Potentially\u2019 should have preceded the publisher\u2019s blurb of \u201cSuspenseful, sweeping, piercingly intimate\u201d, because the opportunities to create that kind of story were squandered. There was a rich substrate to mine: the struggles of the Bengali communist party, the reconciliation of politics with the realities of everyday family life, immigration and integration, grief and its effects, and the evolution of people as they grow from youth to middle age to their winters. None of these were explored; they were merely described. The book spans over fifty years of the adults\u2019 lives, yet fails to recognise that people change as they age. We are not the same in late middle age as we were in early adulthood. We mature, we acquire wisdom (of varying degrees, it\u2019s true, some acquire a lot more than others), we gain insight into complex matters. This is the byproduct of enduring, surviving, aging. But Lahiri\u2019s characters don\u2019t evolve, so they don\u2019t seem real; they remain static, dooming the reader to boredom. This is a book of promise unfulfilled. It was the last of the Booker shortlist that I read, and it was the weakest. ...more Two brothers, born fifteen months apart in Calcutta, India, inseparable until the 1960's when they are both in their mid twenties and their interests begin to diverge. Udayar becomes a follower of Mao's revolutionary politics and joins the Naxalite movement. Which I had to look up on the all knowing wiki. Subhash goes to America to continue his studies. As I was reading this I felt as if the first half was like an outline, just the bare bones of the characters personalities were being revealed. Two brothers, born fifteen months apart in Calcutta, India, inseparable until the 1960's when they are both in their mid twenties and their interests begin to diverge. Udayar becomes a follower of Mao's revolutionary politics and joins the Naxalite movement. Which I had to look up on the all knowing wiki. Subhash goes to America to continue his studies. As I was reading this I felt as if the first half was like an outline, just the bare bones of the characters personalities were being revealed. Much of the political situation was more detailed. In the second half this changed and all the little touches, the observations of place, people and time that Lahiri's prose is noted for, came alive. This is a story of regret, of mistakes made, how one person, alive and dead could effect so many for so long. It is about being unable to forgive oneself and living a life of penance and atonement. Their is some wonderful prose here, some very visual observations about the price of violence and revolution. At times I did feel that Lahiri was portraying her characters at a remove, an almost emotionless narrative of their lives. By the time I finished this book I realized just how well her technique worked because I felt that I knew them and understood them very well. It was just so gradual that until the end I could not put it together. If the reader is patient with this novel, I believe many will feel the same way. ...more Not all women should be mothers. Not all mothers love their children. This should be written about more. Also, not everyone gets wiser as they get older and \u201ctime heals all wounds\u201d is bullshit. These are some of the themes of The Lowland. What I\u2019ve noticed about both Lahiri novels I\u2019ve read is that she is a master at writing about complete down-to-the-bone aloneness. There\u2019s that (clich\u00e9d) lonely-disorientated immigrant experience that I relate to, but she also takes it further to a place that\u2019s Not all women should be mothers. Not all mothers love their children. This should be written about more. Also, not everyone gets wiser as they get older and \u201ctime heals all wounds\u201d is bullshit. These are some of the themes of The Lowland. What I\u2019ve noticed about both Lahiri novels I\u2019ve read is that she is a master at writing about complete down-to-the-bone aloneness. There\u2019s that (clich\u00e9d) lonely-disorientated immigrant experience that I relate to, but she also takes it further to a place that\u2019s hard to explain to those that haven\u2019t left their home country. The isolation you feel in your new country merged with the estrangement you feel from your birth country, discarded by your people as a \u2018stranger\u2019, and it\u2019s all twisted up inside because you did it to yourself. You left. Husbands get left, children get left, families and memories get left. All that remains, it seems, is guilt. With her own hand she'd painted herself into a corner, and then out of the picture altogether. Are you supposed to feel a connection with people because you\u2019re related to them? Because they gave birth to you, or raised you, or lived in the same house with you for years? Is there something wrong with you if you feel nothing for them? Is this common and unspoken, or are you an anomaly? They were a family of solitaries. They had collided and dispersed. While reading The Lowland I kept thinking that I didn\u2019t like it as much as The Namesake, that it wasn\u2019t as good. Maybe that\u2019s true. But I had the same raw emotional reaction to both books and that counts for a lot with me. ...more Jhumpa Lahiri is gifted with the ability to write beautifully. You read some books for the plot, and others for the sheer love of language. While \"The Lowland\" satisfied me plot-wise, it was Jhumpa Lahiri's language that blew me away once again. Something I really appreciated about the book was Jhumpa Lahiri's objective take on the political movement that forms the impetus for every plot line in the book. Lahiri stays away from the tempting trap of making a political point, and focuses instead o Jhumpa Lahiri is gifted with the ability to write beautifully. You read some books for the plot, and others for the sheer love of language. While \"The Lowland\" satisfied me plot-wise, it was Jhumpa Lahiri's language that blew me away once again. Something I really appreciated about the book was Jhumpa Lahiri's objective take on the political movement that forms the impetus for every plot line in the book. Lahiri stays away from the tempting trap of making a political point, and focuses instead on the effect the movement has on the handful of characters and their lives that form the heart of the book. While I did not strongly identify with any of the characters like I did with \"The Namesake,\" I still found that the story drew me in by being both familiar and foreign at the same time. Every time I thought I had finally figured a character out, they would surprise me. This is a must-read for anyone who loved Jhumpa Lahiri's previous books! Oh, and I now feel compelled to visit Rhode Island. Lahiri makes it sound absolutely idyllic. ...more Like her other books, this is beautifully written. Unfortunately, I really didn't like any of the characters, and the narrative was so bland and impersonal this might've easily been a non-fiction history of the factions of Indian politics in the last quarter of the 20th century. The story (if it can be called that) is ambiguous, the characters do not relate to each other in ways I recognize or that seem authentic- very unnatural, stilted and hard to believe. I guess what was most puzzling here f Like her other books, this is beautifully written. Unfortunately, I really didn't like any of the characters, and the narrative was so bland and impersonal this might've easily been a non-fiction history of the factions of Indian politics in the last quarter of the 20th century. The story (if it can be called that) is ambiguous, the characters do not relate to each other in ways I recognize or that seem authentic- very unnatural, stilted and hard to believe. I guess what was most puzzling here for me reading this after having enjoyed her other work SO much was the lack of depth. The story is this: 2 brothers grow up in India in the 60s; while they are very close they take very different paths. One becomes involved in a fringe communist protest group & one leaves India to pursue graduate school in the US. (OK that's what most of her books have in common) The political brother becomes more entangled in terrorist type protests and along the way marries the sister of one of his comrades. SPOILER They are together only a short time before he is killed by the Indian police after they discover that he participated in the murder of a police officer. When the brother in America returns to India for his funeral, he discovers that his parents are inhospitable to his brother's pregnant widow; so he nobly marries her and takes her to the US to have the child and raise it as his own. What follows is essentially 40 years of nothing...she has the baby but leaves when the child is 11 or 12 to finish her own studies and then become a professor. Both of the parents seem to waft through their lives with little or no attachment to any of the generally accepted social structures or norms- meaning that they work and that's it. There are no other characters no other complications, no conflicts at all. Their daughter grows up to become an itinerant migrant farm worker going from place to place picking fruit and living her own wackadoodle but boring life until she becomes pregnant by some man passing through her life (no attention or discussion or plot interest even here because he is treated as a sperm donor). Then she moves back with her 60 something year old father and that's about it. Sorry, I love her other books, but this one is utterly uncompelling. Boring, bland, dry, artificial stilted characters whose experiences bear no relationship to real life, and the entire book has no resonance or depth. Almost insipid, but there isn't even enough going on to be that. Plain oatmeal I guess. ...more 2.5 stars Jumpa Lahiri has failed me. I remember loving The Namesake . I read an excerpt of it in The New Yorker and couldn't wait to read the complete novel. But The Lowland , while layered and complex, requires way too much STUDY. This is not an enjoyable book. I found myself bored and restless time and time again. Even at 50 percent in, I was muddling in murky waters. This book is about the history of India, lots of politics, upheaval, warring parties, etc. I don't adore political history anyway 2.5 stars Jumpa Lahiri has failed me. I remember loving The Namesake . I read an excerpt of it in The New Yorker and couldn't wait to read the complete novel. But The Lowland , while layered and complex, requires way too much STUDY. This is not an enjoyable book. I found myself bored and restless time and time again. Even at 50 percent in, I was muddling in murky waters. This book is about the history of India, lots of politics, upheaval, warring parties, etc. I don't adore political history anyway and know very little about Indian history. Generally, historical novel have a way of seeping you in history through plot and characters, but in this book, the characters take second stage to the history. This read more like a dissertation than a work of fiction. There is very little dialogue, and what little there is is served via stream of consciousness without quotation marks (a trend I ABHOR! It's lazy, saving the author time in writing realistic dialogue vs. an approximation of it, and distances the reader from the characters). The book was slow and reticent, purposely hazy. The two brothers, close in age, are very different (one, angry, restless, protesting corruption, but also selfish, impulsive; the other, static, taking the easier road, detached, settled in his own loneliness), and they remain different, but they don't change or learn or grow or develop as human beings, and their motivations for doing anything feel thrice-removed. There's much mundane detail about day-to-day lives (driving through town, eating dinner) that adds nothing to the story. Perhaps Lahiri is simply riding on the coat tales of fame? This novel has been incredibly overpraised. The writing was overwrought and overly flowery; the characters dull; and the plot begged, \"Ok, so what?\" There are THEMES, certainly, and, as an English prof, I'm all for themes, but themes are only threads - what about the pages? ...more The political history was interesting - 1960s student radicals in India - but most of The Lowland , which takes place in subsequent decades, is just another overly serious modern American family saga (immigrant subtype). The unquestioned contrast in personalities of the two central brothers has a mythological quality but Lahiri's writing never achieves the grandeur befitting that. Sensible Subhash would, I'm sure, make an excellent, nice and reliable work colleague but written about as he was her The political history was interesting - 1960s student radicals in India - but most of The Lowland , which takes place in subsequent decades, is just another overly serious modern American family saga (immigrant subtype). The unquestioned contrast in personalities of the two central brothers has a mythological quality but Lahiri's writing never achieves the grandeur befitting that. Sensible Subhash would, I'm sure, make an excellent, nice and reliable work colleague but written about as he was here he was of little interest. There wasn't enough insight into fiery commie Udayin, or enough story told from his viewpoint - there is a certain amount of judgement in this book that moderation and domesticity are best. I quite liked Gauri and Bela between approx. pp.200-300, but still, all the US storylines were things I've heard many times before and which don't much interest me as a subject for fiction. (\"Stuff normal people like\" was a phrase that kept popping into my head to characterise this novel and Lahiri, generally. Alongside Norah Jones, James Blunt and that ilk. Later I cheered Philip Hensher 's snark about the book's American-airport-bestseller-style .) The most laughable episode was this: (From memory as I don't have a copy with me) \"Do you like it here?\" she asked him. No-one had asked him this before... [He has been there years and this conversation obviously represents his stoicism and unselfishness, and that others have been taking him for granted. Two or three paragraphs describe a river and a bridge and him looking at same, before he actually replies in any shape or form.] What an exhausted old nag of a trope. I couldn't quite believe that readers of a highly-lauded author are still supposed to fall for this rubbish. The worst thing of all? Lahiri's writing style. Her aversion to the word \"and\"; dull synonyms instead of adjectives. Minimal description, underelaboration leaving me too often unmoved and uncaring about the characters. Oh, the drear! All the bloody commas! For days after I finished The Lowland I cringed when I saw certain Lahiri-like sentence structures in other books. It's a cumulative effect which is unlikely to bother anyone on the basis of a few quotations. She's at it here, too, in a twee NYT article I clicked on for some reason. ...when I\u2019d only read and heard about Italy, before I\u2019d ever come to Rome is an example of the type of sentence I grew to loathe over 340 pages - almost every one featuring this sort of phrasing - and which now makes me want to throw something at the screen. Her few paragraphs in the article take something beautiful and render it mundane and lifeless to me. From what I'd seen of previews, reader-reviews, and snideness such as this in the LRB : Even within the seemingly homogeneous sphere of the university English department, a schism has opened up between literary scholarship and creative writing: disciplines which differ in their points of reference (Samuel Richardson v. Jhumpa Lahiri)... I had suspected I would not enjoy Lahiri's writing, but not that I would almost hate it. For perhaps the first half of the book I considered myself an ungrateful wretch, having got my mitts on a copy three weeks prior to official release whilst so many people who'd love to read it hadn't. When I started to dread picking it up, and even more dread those sentences, I must admit this guilt quite subsided. 3 stars is generous considering how much The Lowland grated, but as I was setting it alongside other Booker longlisted titles I had to concede that it is a perfectly competent novel that sits together well and makes sense. However, writing this review is making me reconsider whether I should rate this dull humourless litfic over more populist sort of novels which were stereotyped or had plot mis-steps. They were at least a bit more enjoyable to read. ETA, Nov. This review of Unaccustomed Earth eloquently says a number of things I wish I'd said about Lahiri and her writing. ...more A melancholic tale narrated with restraint and distance. Seeing how the tone was set in the beginning, I didn't expect to be drawn in to the story, wasn't sure what to expect. But call her (Lahiri) the plot whisperer. Here, time will fascinate you, moving abruptly, standing still, spanning generations and decades--yet still managing to stay organic to the plot. The plot and story have so many intricacies that it is time which directs it all. Picture two young boys growing up in the 1960s amid the A melancholic tale narrated with restraint and distance. Seeing how the tone was set in the beginning, I didn't expect to be drawn in to the story, wasn't sure what to expect. But call her (Lahiri) the plot whisperer. Here, time will fascinate you, moving abruptly, standing still, spanning generations and decades--yet still managing to stay organic to the plot. The plot and story have so many intricacies that it is time which directs it all. Picture two young boys growing up in the 1960s amid the lowland of Calcutta, getting into mischief that suits boys their age. In the background, picture the remnants of the partition of India which led to the division of the Bengal province; picture the infamous Naxalite movement in India (communism; Maoist ideology, Marxist-Leninst politics). Picture one brother being headstrong and the other more conscientious. Picture yourself embracing their closeness at the beginning while also being uncomfortably aware of subtle hints from the third-person narrator that something is about to put a wedge between this brotherhood. Now fast forward. See them grow older; meet a bookish young wife who, even in the midst of conservative society, has feminist ideals and crude ambition. See an obstinate and cruel mother-in-law. See a marriage made in love and another conceived for convenience. See the wetlands of a Calcutta neighborhood contrasted with the coast of Rhode Island. See intellectualism battle civil unrest. See the living suffer, watch the dead live. See the ugliness of post traumatic stress disorder. See one mother live with anguish, see another live with ambivalence. See your skin crawl from a mother's abandonment. See what it means to live a life of exile. See what happens when people refuse to reconcile the past. See the ghost who ruins. See happiness intertwined with misery and agony. See how people can be raised the same, yet lead different lives. You read some books and through gestures, symbolism and impeccable details, they subtlety teach you things you never knew. This is one such book. Though stylistically different, parts of it reminded me of The Invisible Bridge This novel has the sophistication of a political novel. I hate to even do this comparison, but close your eyes, and you would think that it was a male author writing about male characters. Told from the third-person narrator point of view, the tone embodies the coping mechanism of the characters: stoicism--just what is needed to accompany a heartrending story without the melodramatics. At times the narration is so distant, it is as if only the storyteller is present (which, by the way, the storytelling here is stupendous). Then just at the right moment, the narration gets closer, so close that you and the character become one, you see their point of view clearly and you may not agree with them but you certainly 'get' them. I love when I sense characters, when the plot doesn't stray but goes forward with such purpose that all I can do is follow to hear what happens next, learn what I'm supposed to learn. Love when I start to feel sorry for characters, wondering why they all end up so miserable, and then I learn that...wait...I'm wrong because in the end, they all don't end up in misery--though for some it is a long time coming. ...more \"Interpreter of Maladies\" (Pulitzer winner), \"Unaccustomed Earth\", and novel \"The Namesake\" we're each so terrific, ... it would be hard for me to choose which of the three I liked better: yet if I 'had' to choose it would be \"Unaccustomed Earth\" as first favorite. Each of the books were about relationships - multiple challenges- and struggles as immigrant families adjust to American Cultural and social norms. Always insightful.... and ALWAYS filled with emotional attachment. And.. In her two book \"Interpreter of Maladies\" (Pulitzer winner), \"Unaccustomed Earth\", and novel \"The Namesake\" we're each so terrific, ... it would be hard for me to choose which of the three I liked better: yet if I 'had' to choose it would be \"Unaccustomed Earth\" as first favorite. Each of the books were about relationships - multiple challenges- and struggles as immigrant families adjust to American Cultural and social norms. Always insightful.... and ALWAYS filled with emotional attachment. And.. In her two books which are short stories, Lahiri's writing style of weaving stories together is so realistic - we feel the heartbeat and are deeply emotionally engaged hanging on to every word she writes. She's a master storyteller. Yet, in \"Lowland\", ...although still beautiful writing, I didn't feel the same ...\"hanging on-by-a-tread\" emotion with this novel. The characters felt somewhat distant - right from the start. I warmed up to the brothers in time....but it took time. I was feeling more intimacy with the environment --- the descriptions of Calcutta... and later Rhode Island, than I was with the characters. At times this story ( about two brothers ...with a woman that touches both of their lives)...reminded me of Abraham Verghese's novel, \"Cutting For Stone\". In both novels one brother comes to the United States to study and further themselves ... In both novels there are great differences between the brothers ..,yet, in this story...I just didn't feel the overall magic - like I did in \"Cutting For Stone\", or Lahiri's previous books. I 'do' love this author ... but if you've never read Lahiri before...my vote would be for her previous books first! I absolutely 'love'. all of her other books!!! This was good.. but not 'as' good ....(for me). 3.5 stars ...more First let me say that Jhumpa Lahiri is my goddess of literature. I read a lot \u2013 maybe 75 books a year \u2013 and I have rarely fallen under the spell of a book the way I did with Interpreter of Maladies. Her follow-up collection of short stories, Unaccustomed Earth, was also an unqualified 5-star success. So I was dying to get my hands on her new novel, The Lowland. I read through it eagerly but I closed the last page with mixed feelings. Let\u2019s start with the good: Ms. Lahiri is a natural-born storytel First let me say that Jhumpa Lahiri is my goddess of literature. I read a lot \u2013 maybe 75 books a year \u2013 and I have rarely fallen under the spell of a book the way I did with Interpreter of Maladies. Her follow-up collection of short stories, Unaccustomed Earth, was also an unqualified 5-star success. So I was dying to get my hands on her new novel, The Lowland. I read through it eagerly but I closed the last page with mixed feelings. Let\u2019s start with the good: Ms. Lahiri is a natural-born storyteller. In this book, she introduces two brothers, close in age who are poles apart \u2013 Udayan, the revolutionary brother who gets caught up in the Mao-inspired Naxalite movement to wipe out poverty in India and his more reserved and dutiful brother, Subhash, who leaves home to pursue an academic and scientific life in Rhode Island. When Udayan inevitably gets swept into a revolutionary movement that turns out badly, Subhash returns home \u2013briefly \u2013 and picks up the pieces, including an attempt to heal the emotional scars of his brother\u2019s young wife. As the plot goes on \u2013 and it is not my desire to encapsulate the plot or to create spoilers \u2013 about 70 years of family history is condensed into a mere 340 pages. Themes play out and then they play out again: the connections that make and break us, the intertwining to people we cannot truly see or know, the way we are defined by the place we call \u201chome\u201d, the quiet differences we make in the world. It\u2019s all wound up in the history of India and indeed, Ms. Lahiri is at her very finest when she\u2019s describing Indian customs or lifestyles as only an insider can. There\u2019s some lovely craftsmanship here, not bells and whistles, but quiet and contemplative -- even shimmering \u2013 moments. The problem is, I never found it to be very compelling. Because of all the years and generations (four of them) that Ms. Lahiri has to cover, she can only provide sketches of her characters. And they never truly come alive. Yes, Udayan is the fiery revolutionary\u2026but what made him so and why was he willing to sacrifice so much (the headiness of youth and a sense of fairness should only be the beginning). His wife, Guari, who eventually bonds with Subhash, was an enigma to be throughout. She is a distanced character, and her actions begin to feel somewhat predictable; the reader is never treated to her resonance and depth. And Bela, her daughter, is only revealed in limited emotional scope. A novel, unlike a short story, demands a considerable emotional tension, a multi-textured richness that makes characters leap off the page. I never really sensed the two-dimensionality, possibly because the story line was multi-generational and ambitious. The litmus test of whether or not you will love this book is this: if you loved Namesake, this is definitely a book for you, since stylistically, there are similarities. If you are, instead, a fan of her short stories, you may or may not be engaged. Judge for yourself. ...more In Calcutta in the 1960s two brothers come of age amid a confusing cluster of economic, social, religious, and political changes that were to disrupt India for years. Subhash and his younger brother Udayan were inseparable throughout their youth. With strict parents and expectations for their lives, they began to bridle as they approached college age. Both were bright boys, both with plans for their futures but here their lives begin to separate and their lives and family to splinter. Subhash is In Calcutta in the 1960s two brothers come of age amid a confusing cluster of economic, social, religious, and political changes that were to disrupt India for years. Subhash and his younger brother Udayan were inseparable throughout their youth. With strict parents and expectations for their lives, they began to bridle as they approached college age. Both were bright boys, both with plans for their futures but here their lives begin to separate and their lives and family to splinter. Subhash is the student, applies himself and ultimately decides to attend graduate school on another lowland, the coastal northeast of the United States. Udayan, while also an excellent student, becomes involved in the Naxilite movement and dedicates himself to the Indian poor. He learns Marxist theory and the teachings of Mao. The parents assume that their sons will ultimately return to the home of their childhood, the home by the lowland, that they will bring brides to this home, women who will then run the home, bear children and carry on traditions. But Lahiri---and Subhash and Udayan---have a different story to tell, one of tangled relationships, lost chances, families broken and rebuilt, love lost and found. And Lahiri does this with her signature beautiful prose which I have experienced previously through her short stories. The character development throughout this novel was done in a manner that drew me in and along. Interestingly, the only time I found myself losing my affection for the novel was one section dedicated to an unsympathetic character. I realized a short time later that it was the character's thought processes and decisions that bothered me, not the writing. I have found this a difficult book to review because there is so much in it and it is difficult to avoid important plot points. I did learn much about Indian history of the 1960s, particularly the Naxilite movement. I do recommend this book and very likely will read it again (and may raise the rating). ...more Jhumpa Lahiri is, hands-down, my favorite writer. The Namesake is part of the reason why I chose to pursue a career in books, and it was very nearly the subject of my master's thesis. I'm not much of a short story reader, but Unaccustomed Earth made me wish I could be a writer. I just love the way that she examines human nature. Sometimes her themes can be a little repetitive, but her insights are so sharp. I love how her work tends to emphasizes the smaller moments of her characters' lives -- T Jhumpa Lahiri is, hands-down, my favorite writer. The Namesake is part of the reason why I chose to pursue a career in books, and it was very nearly the subject of my master's thesis. I'm not much of a short story reader, but Unaccustomed Earth made me wish I could be a writer. I just love the way that she examines human nature. Sometimes her themes can be a little repetitive, but her insights are so sharp. I love how her work tends to emphasizes the smaller moments of her characters' lives -- The Namesake condenses an entire thirty-something years into less than 300 pages, but never felt like it was lacking in depth. The Lowland follows a similar structure, but here Lahiri covers more years and more generations in more pages. It doesn't work quite as well as The Namesake did, but it's still quite powerful. The book begins with two brothers, Subhash and Udayan, in 1960s Calcutta. Udayan becomes involved in an underground communist movement, while Subhash pursues postgraduate education in America. When Udayan's politics cost him his life, Subhash returns home and learns that his sister-in-law, Guari, is pregnant. Guari is received coldly by the brothers' parents because the marriage was not an arranged one. Knowing that she will essentially be alone, Subhash decides to marry her and take her back to America with him so that she may have a safer, more economically secure life. The books follows their lives well into the twenty-first century. I think that the metaphorical elements of this book, the aspects that emphasize themes and broader ideas work quite well. That's where Lahiri shines the most. The contrast of Guari's unarranged marriage to Udayan versus a might-as-well-be arranged marriage to Subhash. Guari and Subhash\u2019s differing approaches to parenthood contrasted against their differing paths to parenthood. How their daughter Bela\u2019s approach to life varies from their own. The sacrfices made by each of the brothers in their pursuit of what each sees as the noble path. Unfortunately, the characters in The Lowland don't shine quite as much. Over the course of this book, we see Udayan and Subhash as young children, experiencing things that will lead to Udayan's desire to join the Naxalite movement during his college years. We see Subhash grow into an old man and Guari's daughter grow into middle age. We see the brothers\u2019 parents reach the end of their lives. And yet, I never felt connected to any of these characters quite the way I expected to. They behaved in complex-yet-predictable ways, but their development sometimes felt mechanical in a way that didn\u2019t allow them to rise up off the page. Lahiri is a brilliant writer and I can\u2019t not recommend this book. Start with her other works first, if you haven\u2019t already. Read this one for the thematic exploration of cultural and familal obligations \u2013 if you want a story where the characters grab you, you may want to pass over this one. ...more I see Jhumpa Lahiri as kind of an old-fashioned novelist in the sense that she genuinely cares about things like character development, setting, and storytelling. She's not trying to impress you with how clever she is; she's not setting up some \"twist\" that's going to make you rethink everything that came before it. She's all about providing an immersive experience that earns all of its emotional high points and epiphanies. This is all to the good, in my opinion. I wish there were more writers o I see Jhumpa Lahiri as kind of an old-fashioned novelist in the sense that she genuinely cares about things like character development, setting, and storytelling. She's not trying to impress you with how clever she is; she's not setting up some \"twist\" that's going to make you rethink everything that came before it. She's all about providing an immersive experience that earns all of its emotional high points and epiphanies. This is all to the good, in my opinion. I wish there were more writers out there who took their responsibility to their story as seriously as Lahiri does. As for The Lowland specifically, I found its plotline much more intriguing than that of The Namesake , but it was somewhat less emotionally satisfying for me. Upon reflection, I think this is simply because The Namesake stayed in Gogol's head nearly the entire time, whereas The Lowland skipped around among Subhash, Gauri, and, to a lesser extent, a few other characters. After The Namesake I longed for a Lahiri novel from a female viewpoint, but sadly here I found the Gauri sections somewhat unsatisfying and mostly couldn't wait to get back to Subhash, the heart of the book. Still, I thought The Lowland was excellent overall and would definitely recommend it to fans of her other works, or fans of good fiction in general. ...more I am hoping to \u2018fillet a stone\u2019 in this review, and separate Lahiri\u2019s writing from her story in this, her latest novel. Lahiri has lavish gifts when it comes to writing. Although Interpreter of Maladies won so many awards and gave Lahiri encouragement perhaps, I preferred another book of linked stories, Unaccustomed Earth , for its deep insights, faultless language, and for peeling the veil from a culture I can never hope to know intimately. The writing in this, her latest novel, was, I thought, w I am hoping to \u2018fillet a stone\u2019 in this review, and separate Lahiri\u2019s writing from her story in this, her latest novel. Lahiri has lavish gifts when it comes to writing. Although Interpreter of Maladies won so many awards and gave Lahiri encouragement perhaps, I preferred another book of linked stories, Unaccustomed Earth , for its deep insights, faultless language, and for peeling the veil from a culture I can never hope to know intimately. The writing in this, her latest novel, was, I thought, workmanlike and studious--like her characters in a way, scientists and PhDs, both. And it was too long and wordy, like a dissertation maybe. Regarding the story, for me it held little drama, and seemed a long litany of history for not-so-interesting characters. I did get a sense of Indian culture as scrappy and vibrant at the same time it is smothering and crushing. I do think Lahiri did a good job with the expatriate/immigrant experience\u2014that sense of dislocation and living at a remove. I also thought the inter-national love affair between Holly and Subhash in Rhode Island rang true, neither of the lovers imagining for a moment their families would accept \u2018a foreigner\u2019 and they themselves lack the experience and confidence to transgress the life expected of them. And Lahiri gave us some nice images: \u201c[Bela, the baby] breathed with her whole body\u2026like an animal.\u201d Though I am not intimately familiar with Indian lifestyle practices, Lahiri did have me trying to manage feelings of outrage and disbelief about the way Subhash withheld Bela\u2019s parentage from her, despite Bela\u2019s difficult time adjusting when her mother did a runner. It is difficult for me to empathize with an educated man (and woman) of any nationality who watch with equanimity their family disintegrate and do nothing to prevent it, even when the mental health of the child in their care is at stake. I\u2019m sure there are folks out there that act this way, but when Lahiri says Bela came back and thanked her father for not telling her he was her stepfather, I thought perhaps we stepped off the reality train. Maybe it is so\u2014they are Lahiri\u2019s characters after all\u2014but it all felt a little far out there to American me. Another way to look at this book is that it is unadorned, cruel, and often boring--just like life itself. Anita Chaudhuri, an editor at Psychologies magazine, tweeted of the book: \"One of the bravest books I've ever read, no tricks, no jokes, just life.\" I guess that is true, too. It may not be what we want to hear or how we want to live, but there it is, like it or not. This book was shortlisted for the 2013 Man Booker Prize, which was awarded instead to Eleanor Catton\u2019s The Luminaries . It is also a finalist for 2013 The National Book Award for fiction. ...more As there are two brothers of opposite temperaments in this book, perhaps it is appropriate that I am of two minds about the book. It's above all elegantly written, yet too much is explained, especially in the last three chapters. So, yes, it could've ended three chapters sooner than it did, yet I appreciated why she included them. I questioned the sudden use of no names in the penultimate one, as that seemed to serve no purpose, though its sudden shift to present tense was fine. At times there i As there are two brothers of opposite temperaments in this book, perhaps it is appropriate that I am of two minds about the book. It's above all elegantly written, yet too much is explained, especially in the last three chapters. So, yes, it could've ended three chapters sooner than it did, yet I appreciated why she included them. I questioned the sudden use of no names in the penultimate one, as that seemed to serve no purpose, though its sudden shift to present tense was fine. At times there is more telling than showing as years are spooled out, especially for one character, and yet it was done in an almost-forgivable Munro way. If you've read Lahiri before, some of the tone and situations of this novel will seem very familiar at certain points, yet that feeling of familiarity eventually dissipates and then stops altogether. It's a powerful story, and yet with more focus on the actual story, and less perhaps on the themes, I think it could've been even more powerful. I'm a 'character person' for the most part and these are well-drawn, yet I never felt that any of them leaped off the page as by the middle I expected they might. ...more A bittersweet love story with the main focus being the bitterness of loss expressed over a life time and the consequences. I enjoyed the book overall but I was very disappointed in the ending. I feel that the ending fell very short of what it could have been. Anyways, this was a fantastic read with a lot of depth and emotion. I hope to read more from this author in the future. ---------------------------------------------------- I want to complete some lists on this site. I thought it would be a go A bittersweet love story with the main focus being the bitterness of loss expressed over a life time and the consequences. I enjoyed the book overall but I was very disappointed in the ending. I feel that the ending fell very short of what it could have been. Anyways, this was a fantastic read with a lot of depth and emotion. I hope to read more from this author in the future. ---------------------------------------------------- I want to complete some lists on this site. I thought it would be a good challenge. Kind of like the summer reading lists from school except it's when I can do it and outside of reading the books I already own to take my personal library from just shy of a thousand to the essentials which are the books I reread a lot. This reading list is the 2013 Man Booker Prize Longlist. Which is an official list for an official award that is serious and has to be earned. I thought it would be a great list to start off with as it is one put together by a nonuser of Goodreads, will most likely have books worth my time, and it is relatively short. First book read in order to complete list: https://www.goodreads.com/list/show/4... ...more I won't recount the storyline as it's amply available. Very satisfying read. A must-read! After finishing this book (an ARC from an angel and subsequently paid forward), I had to take a day or so off from reading anything else in order to continue to allow the afterglow of The Lowland to linger. I found Lahiri's writing to be so precise and her tone so serene. And yet it's taut--that skin on the drum secured very tightly and thus enabling the biggest impact/resistance. The tension rests just bene I won't recount the storyline as it's amply available. Very satisfying read. A must-read! After finishing this book (an ARC from an angel and subsequently paid forward), I had to take a day or so off from reading anything else in order to continue to allow the afterglow of The Lowland to linger. I found Lahiri's writing to be so precise and her tone so serene. And yet it's taut--that skin on the drum secured very tightly and thus enabling the biggest impact/resistance. The tension rests just beneath the surface, threatening to break through. The words, tone and pacing have a focused and steady quality that accentuates the emotions, the beauty of the descriptions (e.g., sky, the house, the hairs on his forearms), and the impact of the actions. I was also thrilled by how she crafted the characters. Each character --at each life stage, from childhood on-- rang \"true\" to me. ...more Does it sometime seem to you as though Indian novelists are muscling into the ranks of top English-language writers, making their way onto the best-seller lists and snapping up a disproportionate share of the literary awards? No? Think of Anita Desai, Arundhati Roy, Amitav Ghosh, Vikram Chanda, Kiran Desai, Aravind Adiga, and don\u2019t forget Salman Rushdie. And that\u2019s just those who come to mind without effort. Within this pantheon of literary overachievers, the Indian-American writer Jhumpa Lahiri Does it sometime seem to you as though Indian novelists are muscling into the ranks of top English-language writers, making their way onto the best-seller lists and snapping up a disproportionate share of the literary awards? No? Think of Anita Desai, Arundhati Roy, Amitav Ghosh, Vikram Chanda, Kiran Desai, Aravind Adiga, and don\u2019t forget Salman Rushdie. And that\u2019s just those who come to mind without effort. Within this pantheon of literary overachievers, the Indian-American writer Jhumpa Lahiri fits comfortably. She won the Pulitzer Prize for her first collection of short stories, Interpreter of Maladies. The Lowland, the second of Lahiri\u2019s novels, was shortlisted for the National Book Award this year. (Her first novel wasn\u2019t overlooked, either, gaining bestseller status and receiving rave reviews like pretty much everything else she\u2019s written.) On one level, The Lowland reflects two sides of its author\u2019s persona \u2014 her Bengali heritage (though she was born in the UK) and her upbringing in Rhode Island. The novel\u2019s action is divided between the middle-class precincts of Kolkata (formerly Calcutta) and the academic world of Rhode Island. The plot revolves around two momentous incidents, one taking place in Kolkata in 1971, the other in Rhode Island twelve years later. In another sense, the novel is a tale of two Bengali brothers, preternaturally close in their youth, whose passions take them in divergent directions. Subhash, older by fifteen months, emerges as the protagonist, pursuing a vocation for marine biology through graduate studies, laboratory work, and teaching in Rhode Island. The more adventurous Udayan becomes caught up in the violent revolutionary politics of the Naxalite Rebellion, a Maoist insurgency that continues to rage throughout much of northeastern and southern India. Lahiri\u2019s sense of history and its consequences is as insightful as her grasp of the human heart. She weaves her tale with a sure hand around the threads of the two brother\u2019s intersecting lives, moving swiftly back and forth from one continent to the other and ranging across the seven decades from Subhash\u2019s birth in 1943 to the present day. It\u2019s difficult to read this story without succumbing to the illusion that Lahiri\u2019s vividly drawn characters are real. The Lowland is a sad story of love and loss, but a hopeful one nonetheless. Lahiri never lets us get lost in despair, finding hope and possibility in birth, renewal, and forgiveness. ...more Devotion \u201cThe Lowland\u201d starts out slowly. For the first 30 pages or so it\u2019s about politics and living conditions in Calcutta in the late \u201860\u2019s. Stay with it though because if politics don\u2019t grab you Lahiri\u2019s subsequent story will. Udayan and his older brother Subhash have been raised to honor their parents and observe the old customs but Udayan turns to radical politics because of the injustice and poverty he sees around him. Both boys have finished their university degrees and they\u2019ve always bee Devotion \u201cThe Lowland\u201d starts out slowly. For the first 30 pages or so it\u2019s about politics and living conditions in Calcutta in the late \u201860\u2019s. Stay with it though because if politics don\u2019t grab you Lahiri\u2019s subsequent story will. Udayan and his older brother Subhash have been raised to honor their parents and observe the old customs but Udayan turns to radical politics because of the injustice and poverty he sees around him. Both boys have finished their university degrees and they\u2019ve always been close to one another but the more Udayan becomes involved in politics the more Subhash feels alienated from him Ironically it seems like the more their lives diverge the more they overlap. Lahiri explores how love can still be constant though people\u2019s lives and thoughts become divergent. In Udayan\u2019s and Subhash\u2019s case they are tied by not just blood and their love for one another but through devotion to their parents and their shared homeland. Lahiri also explores how doing what seems like the right and honorable thing can have mixed results. As always she also delves in to the clash of cultures and the expectations for men vs. those for women. Another constant theme of hers is love and how it is expressed and what it means to individuals and their unique way of expressing it. Silence is important to watch for in her writing. Doing and saying nothing can be as telling as a shout or a hug. She raises the theme of brotherhood between individuals as well as countrymen and/or like minded individuals. Her definition of brotherhood has a capital B. As others do in adulthood Udayan and Subhash realign themselves to other people and larger causes moving beyond their childhood alliance of two but the past continues to have an iron grip on them. Though this is an emotional book it\u2019s more balanced, less highly wrought than \u201cInterpreter of Maladies\u201d or \u201cUnaccustomed Earth\u201d. I\u2019m still trying to work out whether that\u2019s a good thing or a bad thing. I didn\u2019t enjoy it quite as much as the other two books but at the same time its themes were clearer, more developed. ...more Very rarely after rating a book on Goodreads i have clicked \"write a review\"....very often....this is one such time.... The first line onwards this book was just a magic recreated with a delightful and mesmerising penmanship by Jhumpa Lahiri.... her previous books were good or even brilliant....but the way her storytelling has matured is simply a treat to the eyes and to the mind.... there is no relief in the storyline....it strangles you with one tragedy after the other which reminds you of the w Very rarely after rating a book on Goodreads i have clicked \"write a review\"....very often....this is one such time.... The first line onwards this book was just a magic recreated with a delightful and mesmerising penmanship by Jhumpa Lahiri.... her previous books were good or even brilliant....but the way her storytelling has matured is simply a treat to the eyes and to the mind.... there is no relief in the storyline....it strangles you with one tragedy after the other which reminds you of the works of Khaled Hosseini....of many incomplete affairs....she plays with the relations...breaks them....shapes them....recreates them....and she does that with sheer command over the language.... there may not be enough lines to become memorable....but its the story and the paths it takes over six decades and over two halves of the world that makes this story a wonderful experience... may be one of the best experiences in a long time... and the characters...the building up of the characters...the vulnerability of each and every one of the characters adds to the tragedy of the book...yet...the way those vulnerability gives rise to the latent powers within them...makes this a winner... spanning over the Naxal period, the developments of the world across six decades....this story is a complete story of Love,Fraternity,Heartbreaks,Affection,Indifference....but mostly it stands for Rising from the ashes,burning again and crumbling down, and again resurrecting.... thank you Jhumpa Lahiri....for keeping many relations incomplete....yet completing them in a very subtle way and for touching the heart in this Hosseinic manner...wish you all the success for your future... this story will be remembered....for days and years to come.... ...more I loved this book. A very sad story, wonderfully told. A story about the past being part of the present, always and wherever you go. No escape possible. A truly remarkable novel. Highly recommended. Sometimes an author can tell the whole story of her characters lives without using one word too many, captivating her readers, and submerging them in a fictional yet historically and geographically accurate world, as events which will forever shape her subjects lives unfold. This author has seamlessly achieved this....telling the story of two Indian Brothers who are close, but very different. One Brother wants to change the world in which he lives, the other seeks to make the most of his opportuni Sometimes an author can tell the whole story of her characters lives without using one word too many, captivating her readers, and submerging them in a fictional yet historically and geographically accurate world, as events which will forever shape her subjects lives unfold. This author has seamlessly achieved this....telling the story of two Indian Brothers who are close, but very different. One Brother wants to change the world in which he lives, the other seeks to make the most of his opportunities. The first boy cannot accept what he sees as unfair, letting his feelings of injustice compromise the safety and stability of not only his own life, but of those close to him, embroiling loved ones in his radical activities, and ultimately courting disaster....the second boy travels to America, hoping that he can achieve betterment by becoming well educated. When the unthinkable happens, it's repercussions shape and alter the lives of those affected for years to come. Set in both India and North East America, the author so vividly describes the landscapes and lifestyles of those parts of the world, that I felt I could feel the heat and cold, smell both the exotic scents of India, and the fresh salty tang of the North American sea shore. It's a sad, but ultimately uplifting story, it's main characters are brilliantly portrayed, telling their stories of love, loss and sacrifice in an ever changing world, in which old traditions clash with new ways of thinking, of how some people are able to accept fate, and adapt their lives accordingly, and how some allow outrageous fortune to haunt them, to forever shape how they feel about their lives and those around them. This was my first book by this author, but certainly won't be my last. ...more The first book I read from Ms. Lahiri was 'The Namesake' and I failed to understand all the hype around it. Yes, the author is brilliant at describing emotions and fleshing out her characters. But, in that particular novel, I felt she didn't do enough with the story. However, in this book she has certainly moved on. It's a poignant story, narrated with characteristic command over drawing abstract meaning from the mundane. The story features two brothers, Subhash and Udayan Mitra, born just over a The first book I read from Ms. Lahiri was 'The Namesake' and I failed to understand all the hype around it. Yes, the author is brilliant at describing emotions and fleshing out her characters. But, in that particular novel, I felt she didn't do enough with the story. However, in this book she has certainly moved on. It's a poignant story, narrated with characteristic command over drawing abstract meaning from the mundane. The story features two brothers, Subhash and Udayan Mitra, born just over a year apart. They are used to being mistaken for each other, despite the elder one, Subhash being reserved and more of a follower. Udayan is the maverick, the adventurer of the two, who manages to snag his brother in his endeavours. The brothers are inseparable, but the changing political scape of the country drives them apart when Udayan gets involved in the Naxal movement. Subhash choosed to pursue his studies in the US. Then, the story picks up pace and moves into tragic fragments, each to do with a member of the Mitra family. There are flirtations with love, both requited and unrequited, and the story goes on to span the next generation as well. The author does a fantastic job of describing the loneliness inherent to all the characters. It is with lyrical smoothness that she makes the transition from one generation to another, leaving behind a trail of vacant eyes, vacant houses, and vacant hearts. As far as I'm concerned, this is the best book I've read this year and it's going to be tough to beat. ...more I have liked every other book Ms Lahari has written, but this one just left me cold. I think she writes prose beautifully however, in this novel her wonderul gift did not make up for the lack of warmth or the lack of developing characters that had some heart and warmth. The characters were all wooden as if placed upon a chessboard and moved around without really knowing or even being able to love one another. I must admit, I found Gauri, the wife of the brothers to be the coldest of the character I have liked every other book Ms Lahari has written, but this one just left me cold. I think she writes prose beautifully however, in this novel her wonderul gift did not make up for the lack of warmth or the lack of developing characters that had some heart and warmth. The characters were all wooden as if placed upon a chessboard and moved around without really knowing or even being able to love one another. I must admit, I found Gauri, the wife of the brothers to be the coldest of the characters. I find it very hard to understand how a mother leaves her child as she did and disliked her character greatly. The brothers, one of which was a member of a group dedicated to gaining rights for the poor becomes a part of a limited terrorist group and becomes destructive and an accomplice to a murder all in the name of achieving rights for the poor and down trodden. In all, the book does not come together and I found no sympathy for Udayan as he is killed and disposed of. Sad to say, I was very disappointed in this tale. Needless to say, I believe Ms Lahiri to be a very talented author, but for me this novel just did not prove that belief. ...more My opinion of this book is unlike most of my friends' opinions, I know. The author writes poetically, I will give her that; but she also writes as if a slow moving freight train is crossing the country and may or may not derail at any moment. There was just a slight sense that something awful might happen, or something to add to the tragedy that happened in India, but mostly I felt that probably nothing at all would happen. Very descriptive paragraphs on Calcutta's political environment during t My opinion of this book is unlike most of my friends' opinions, I know. The author writes poetically, I will give her that; but she also writes as if a slow moving freight train is crossing the country and may or may not derail at any moment. There was just a slight sense that something awful might happen, or something to add to the tragedy that happened in India, but mostly I felt that probably nothing at all would happen. Very descriptive paragraphs on Calcutta's political environment during the 1960's and 70's, which really did not interest me even though I did learn a thing or two. Then we cover some pretty mundane lives of very mundane people for about 50 years. Did not know where this was going, nor did it keep me much interested. But then neither did her Interpretor of Maladies. By the end when I gained some insight into what made the characters click, especially what made Gauri so cold and unfeeling, I was past being surprised. 2 stars only because I made it to the end. ...more", "Title": "The Lowland"},
