{"Comments": "My husband once told me a story about a neighbour he had before his family moved to our city. His very friendly, community conscious neighbour had a mower stollen one night by a couple of drunken goons. His parents gave him their sympathy and inquired as to why he didn't call the police. He replied that he didn't need to. Whoever this man really was and whatever he really did, I won't expound on. It's enough to say that two days later his mower was returned to his yard.<---F> Cleaned</---F>. With a free case My husband once told me a story about a neighbour he had before his family moved to our city. His very friendly, community conscious neighbour had a mower stollen one night by a couple of drunken goons. His parents gave him their sympathy and inquired as to why he didn't call the police. He replied that he didn't need to. Whoever this man really was and whatever he really did, I won't expound on. It's enough to say that two days later his mower was returned to his yard. Cleaned. With a free case of beer. See, I only wish I was THAT kind of badass. The kind of badass where if someone steals from me - they quickly realize their mistakes, shit themselves and set about to rectifying the situation. Ah! Life would be sweet! This is the kind of bad guy that <---A>Ally Carter</---A> TRIES to create in <+++>Heist Society</+++> and her failure to really do so is the only let down to what is otherwise a very fun, enjoyable novel to read. So, Katarina Bishop is a fifteen year old who comes from a family of theives. I suppose for about fifteen seconds I found the premise of this novel ridiculous before I recalled that The Fox sisters started when they were 10 and 12 and that Frank Abagnale had collected $40,000 from various New York banks around the same time my little brother learned he could tap his head AND rub his tummy in unison. However,<---M> for the majority of the novel</---M>, I STILL felt that it really should have been people in their early tweenties as opposed to Teens. Hale just doesn't SEEM 16. Nobody is mysertious and sexy and intriguing at 16 - it's just impossible. I refuse! People don't have suave and debonair one liners at sixteen, I don't care how fucking rich they are! Money doesn't buy you the ability to lean in and gaze intensely into a chic's eyes while letting loose some perfect, panty-dropping line and finishing it off with a wicked grin. You know what people have at sixteen? Pimples. Pimples and body odour and dirty magazines. They do not have more class than all the Ivy League schools in America put together. The writing is okay and I think you have to take this book for what it is - a short fun escape into fantasy. It's not brilliant. It's not going to blow your world. The whole con within the con was very sketchy and if this book were real then Kat would have ended it at the fishing docks with a knife in her gut. This is where I come back to the part where the villain just didn't cut it. It's not really Carter's fault though. This is a young adult novel and whilst, in reality, the villain would have had Kat \"roughed up a little\" on several occasions, that's really not appropriate for teen lit. Okay, maybe paranoraml teen lit but this is different. So he always just kind of came off as this idiot who was SUPPOSED to be intimidating - but I wasn't really feeling it. Maybe I don't intimidate easy. Maybe I found his logic, linking Kat's Dad to the crime to be so piss poor weak, that if I'd been Kat I would have given him a baleful glare, flipped him off and told him to find a new pacifier before letting him throw his itty tantrums over his lost art. The moral to the story is that if you want an easy read, and you're at the \"target audience\" age (because nothing is more squicky than realizing you're a 24 year old wife and mother who just had innapropriate thoughts about a bloody 16 year old!) then give it a go! ...more Also posted on STRANGEMORE.COM . Who is in the <+++>Heist Society</+++>? * One of them is a mini Sydney-Bristow-in-training, whose family has been falsely accused, and she's armed with a big attitude and huge problems. * Then there is the handsome and debonair millionaire thief who compares dancing to navigating through a laser grid. * There is also the beauty who is literally electrifying in high heels and a skirt. At least, when she gets too close to priceless works of art. * Two of them are the ones who Also posted on STRANGEMORE.COM . Who is in the Heist Society? * One of them is a mini Sydney-Bristow-in-training, whose family has been falsely accused, and she's armed with a big attitude and huge problems. * Then there is the handsome and debonair millionaire thief who compares dancing to navigating through a laser grid. * There is also the beauty who is literally electrifying in high heels and a skirt. At least, when she gets too close to priceless works of art. * Two of them are the ones who've been blacklisted for stealing from a nun. Because whoever you are, that's just wrong . * Another is a pickpocket and a newbie, with a British accent and mysterious eyes. These are the people who make jokes about the time so-and-so ransomed The Queen's prized pooch. They are the teeny-bopper versions of Ocean's Eleven , but with less crew members and an even bigger job. They are also the ones who take on the biggest heist job in the world. Their story isn't heart-wrenching or gut-churning, but it's fast, fun, and full of intrigue . I feel like I should tell you more, but the first rule of Heist Society is that you don't... Well, if you don't already know, then I probably shouldn't tell you. ...more I love it when you get excited when seeing a book you never heard of before, and then while reading, it turns out to be fantastic, instead of the opposite. I am now a huge fan of Ally Carter's. I have her other series (the Gallagher Girls), but I just haven't had the time to read them yet...what, with so many other books to read, but not now. I wont wait to read them. I can see this series becoming my new YA favorite. I loved the characters and the twist and turns in the plot-line. It wasn't pred I love it when you get excited when seeing a book you never heard of before, and then while reading, it turns out to be fantastic, instead of the opposite. I am now a huge fan of Ally Carter's. I have her other series (the Gallagher Girls), but I just haven't had the time to read them yet...what, with so many other books to read, but not now. I wont wait to read them. I can see this series becoming my new YA favorite. I loved the characters and the twist and turns in the plot-line. It wasn't predictable, which actually, the ending took me by surprise in a number of ways. I'm even beginning to be okay with partial third person narration, who would have thought. HA! I really enjoyed the writing, because Carter used enough details to high-light certain things and relationships without losing the focus of the whole story, but giving enough to keep the reader intrigued and wondering. It wasn't bogged down with too much nonessential filling, which I appreciated. It was a fast read, because I just had to know how this was all going to turn out. For me, I loved everything about this book. Maybe it was because of the other books I've been reading lately, what ever the case, this book was a refreshing change from my normal interest. I can't wait for what comes next... ...more Listen to my Heist Society fanmix in 8tracks and see the tracklist here. Actual Rating: 4.5 stars This book is everything I wanted and more. Heist Society has the same international thrill as The Conspiracy of Us which is one of my favorite reads this year. And it went delightfully well. I might be crying tears of blood. Please give me twenty. Mini review to come. Okay, the only reason I wanted to read this book was because I took a course called \u201cArt in Popular Literature\u201d and it was an awesome class that really sparked my interest in art. Perhaps that wasn\u2019t the right perspective to view this book from because the complete absence and respect paid to the true real works of art in this book left me absolutely pissed. First of all, for the majority of the book I was so confused. All the amounts of names for characters we had to keep track of and backstory Okay, the only reason I wanted to read this book was because I took a course called \u201cArt in Popular Literature\u201d and it was an awesome class that really sparked my interest in art. Perhaps that wasn\u2019t the right perspective to view this book from because the complete absence and respect paid to the true real works of art in this book left me absolutely pissed. First of all, for the majority of the book I was so confused. All the amounts of names for characters we had to keep track of and backstory events that were dropped on me made my head bleed. Is this supposed to be part of a larger world or series because that\u2019s the only reason I can offer for the author\u2019s clunky and forced method of bringing about information to the reader. And then when actual mentions of the art came up, it was nothing more than vague offhand descriptions that brought nothing to the table as to explaining why these works were so important and why these bad guys wanted them so bad. There is a lot of economic, cultural, and societal issues that surround major pieces of art (painting, sculptures, or otherwise) and to not even have them briefly touched upon doesn\u2019t develop a sense of understanding or connection with the reader. I was very upset, but that was nothing until I found out that the artwork the author described were all fake and made up. Excuse me? Were you just too lazy to look up the real pieces of art from these \"Grand Masters\" you so cleverly decided to use as justification in your story? (I put that in quotations because the author OBVIOUSLY does not know who the REAL Grand Masters of art are, and I'm sorry but Renoir and Impressionism is not part of that select group.) It\u2019s not like you\u2019re lacking for inspiration there. They have dozens of missing or stolen paintings worth millions of dollars that are without a clue as to where their current whereabouts are. Hello? What the hell! This would have given this story a lot more credibility and brought a whole \u2018nother layer to the book in general. You know, when the character decided to diss some of the grandest museums dedicated to art in the world, I was really pissed. Your only reasoning is that it\u2019s too hot, too pretentious, too crowded? What the fuck is wrong with you. It\u2019s a museum! Therefore it\u2019s meant as a place of enjoyment for everyone while attempting to educate the public about the significance of the pieces. Give me a break. And when they tried to make out how the museum that\u2019s set up by one of the villain\u2019s ancestor\u2019s wife (or some convoluted crap like that) and how she wanted to buy the world\u2019s best art work that money could buy so she could have the best museum in the world, I was about to scream. Nice try there trying to draw a parallel to Isabella Stewart Gardner but sorry, you failed entirely to capture her persona. Heist Society makes it out to seem that stealing paintings or artworks from museums is done all the time because of how lucrative it is. Yeah, it is a lucrative business because of how much money they are worth and could possibly make in the black market, but after the heist of the Isabella Stewart Gardner museum, security and precautions have been stepped way up so it\u2019s not as easy as it was before. The only real reason I did not cut up this book more because of the relationship between Kat and Hale. This was one of the big positives, because their romance is gradually built up from a friendship filled with banter to blossoming feelings and finally realization of both. It was sweet and Hale was a great friend. He never pushed her around, was very dependable, and would always be there for her when she needed him. I\u2019m sure the whole idea of a teenager working undercover as a spy and gallivanting off to glamorous countries, spending hecka amounts of money, and undergoing daring missions is a dream fantasy for many people. And I can see the attraction but I am unhappy about how horribly art was portrayed in this book. If this is how all popular ya books treat art, I should best stay away from them in the future. ...more 3.5 stars I seriously needed this in my life. This was so fun, cute and perfect to relax myself after a tough week of non - stopping exams. I love Ally's writing style and her characters, she makes a great atmosphere and makes you laugh so much. This reminded me a lot of Secret Society Girl series, which I love, but in a YA world. Also, hello there Hale. The characters are are extremely cute and interesting and it was so fun to go on this adventure with them! This was a meh read. When it got to a certain point, I kept glancing at the percentage at the bottom of my kindle screen to see if I was almost done. It's not a bad book and the idea was interesting, but I didn't really feel it. First off, it was rather vague. I couldn't really connect to any of the characters because I hardly got to know them. Also there were times where this book confusingly jumped between different POV's and lost me in the process. It was hardly a change of paragraph before we This was a meh read. When it got to a certain point, I kept glancing at the percentage at the bottom of my kindle screen to see if I was almost done. It's not a bad book and the idea was interesting, but I didn't really feel it. First off, it was rather vague. I couldn't really connect to any of the characters because I hardly got to know them. Also there were times where this book confusingly jumped between different POV's and lost me in the process. It was hardly a change of paragraph before we were in someone else's head. And then it took a few sentences to figure out who it was because I didn't feel a difference between the voices of the characters. I had to wait for names to be dropped! I also don't understand how these people are jumping all over the world. One day they're in Vegas, the next in Paris, then England, then Italy...etc. Literally! At the beginning of each chapter there would be the countdown to the number of days left to their deadline and the location the characters were at. This happened daily. So for the most part, each day they were in a different country. And they end up at the next destination to continue their mission within the same day or the next day. I hate to break the news, but it takes at least twelve hours to fly from Vegas to Paris and do you know how exhausting travel is, not to mention daily travel?? How are they still awake? It doesn't make any sense. And I know I keep saying \"they\", but I'm not specifying because I only somewhat know the names of this group of maximum 16-year-olds. Katarina, Hale, <---C>Gabrielle</---C>, Simon, Nick, and a couple others. The \"villain\" is Arturo Taccone. He had in his possession several incredibly expensive painting that were stolen by \"Visily Romani\". Visily Romani is a pseudonym for a dangerous thief. But it isn't one person. The title is...passed down, I guess you could say. Anyway, this Romani stole the paintings from Arturo and brought them to the Henley Museum...... So lemme get this straight: a thief stole billions of dollars worth of paintings from a man to whom they never belonged in the first place and did the good deed of bringing them to an extremely reputable museum instead of keeping them for him/herself, and this museum never really wondered where these paintings came from?? Wut? And Arturo is the bad guy because he thinks Katarina's dad is the one that stole them and gave her two weeks to return the paintings to him or bad things would happen to her father. He barely gave this 16-year-old and her friends time to steal more than two highly guarded paintings. That's not all! Despite Katarina explaining to Arturo how she absolutely couldn't succeed in such a short time period, She and her friends succeed . They succeed last minute! And I don't even know how! Deus ex machina much? The romance was completely unnecessary and forced. Why does Hale like Katarina? He only starts to show any interest once Nick joins the gang and flirts with Katarina. I don't care for Hale as a love interest in any way. There was no chemistry either. It just started at one point when Katarina went into his garden by herself and he followed her to talk in the romantic moonlight. Please . The book would have been soooooo much better without it! The only character I liked was Katarina's cousin Gabrielle because she was pretty awesome! I know that a lot of people enjoyed this one, and I did as well to a certain extent. Give it a shot! ...more Definitely 5 stars! Put it this way, I got this on audiobook from the library, finished it today in the car on the way to work, and stopped at the book store on the way home from work to buy a copy to keep. What a great premise! A bunch of preteens pulling off an Ocean's 11 worthy heist all in the name of saving family. Katerina Bishop (such a fantastic name) is the daughter of Bobby Bishop - one of the world's greatest thief's - and she is well on her way to being the same. She pulled her first Definitely 5 stars! Put it this way, I got this on audiobook from the library, finished it today in the car on the way to work, and stopped at the book store on the way home from work to buy a copy to keep. What a great premise! A bunch of preteens pulling off an Ocean's 11 worthy heist all in the name of saving family. Katerina Bishop (such a fantastic name) is the daughter of Bobby Bishop - one of the world's greatest thief's - and she is well on her way to being the same. She pulled her first job at the age of 5 - granted she only did it for the ice cream her father promised her if she would scream until the authorities came. Her father is accused of stealing 5 paintings from a very bad man who now wants his possessions back or her father will pay a very deadly price. The thing is he didn't do it, but no one knows who did. Her crew - a ragtag team of opposites from the the hot girl, to the billionaire boy, to the super geek - come together to help her pull off a heist to steal back the paintings from a place that is supposedly impossible to steal from. The book is fast paced and travels the world hitting Las Vegas, Italy, England, and a few more. You are constantly wondering who the mystery thief is, their connection to Kat if their is one, and just how the hell they are pulling off their heists! This is definitely going onto my re-readable shelf and I can only cross my fingers and hope that there will be a sequel as I still have some unanswered questions, and totally want to read more about Kat, Hale, and their adventures. ***** Wow, right after I finish reading this book 5 pieces of artwork are stolen from the Paris Museum of Modern Art. So sad! http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/20... ***** It's been optioned as a movie! YAY! ...more Re-read review: Good gravy, Ally Carter is a magician!!! In spite of the fact that I already knew everything that happened, I still couldn't put this down. HOW??? XD Definitely just as good as the first time! (See below for some content problems.) Original: How do I start to describe this book? It was amazing, wonderful, epic... I'm already fairly certain that this will be one of my absolute favoritest books of all time. I have a thing for superheroes, and the next best thing to superheroes are sp Re-read review: Good gravy, Ally Carter is a magician!!! In spite of the fact that I already knew everything that happened, I still couldn't put this down. HOW??? XD Definitely just as good as the first time! (See below for some content problems.) Original: How do I start to describe this book? It was amazing, wonderful, epic... I'm already fairly certain that this will be one of my absolute favoritest books of all time. I have a thing for superheroes, and the next best thing to superheroes are spies and other epically awesome people. Thieves, though? Well, let me tell you - these thieves, yes. See, these thieves are going all Mission: Impossible and stealing back things that have been stolen, to save Kat's father. Which, if you ask me, is a pretty noble cause, especially for thieves. Holy cow, did this book surprise me! I thought I would enjoy it, but I didn't think I'd fall in love with it. W.W. Hale the Fifth... PLEASE. COME. TO. ME. I need more of this series, and also more of Ally Carter's other books. I'm hoping to get my hands on the Gallagher Girls series soon... My only content notes would be that this is a secular book, so there are some comments made about females that are inappropriate. Gabrielle wears a lot of short skirts and tight/low-cut shirts. (view spoiler) [Several of the guys make inappropriate comments about Kat when she's wearing an outfit designed by Gabrielle, that is probably something Gabrielle would wear. (hide spoiler) ] Other than that, it was a very great read, which I would highly recommend! ...more Heist Society was one of the most confusing books I have ever read and by that I don't necessarily mean the plotline was befuddling - though it was not exactly easy to follow - I mean that my feelings towards the characters and the book in general was different for every chapter which left me awfully confused for most of the book. One point I was loving it, next I was confused, then I a little bored only to be shocked by an intense scene bursting with suspense, intrigue and mysteriousness. The id Heist Society was one of the most confusing books I have ever read and by that I don't necessarily mean the plotline was befuddling - though it was not exactly easy to follow - I mean that my feelings towards the characters and the book in general was different for every chapter which left me awfully confused for most of the book. One point I was loving it, next I was confused, then I a little bored only to be shocked by an intense scene bursting with suspense, intrigue and mysteriousness. The idea of this book was genius. It was interesting, intriguing, it grabbed my attention fast and managed to hold it. What let it down was the execution. Character development was barely existent and which reflected obviously in the book, bringing the enjoyment level down a considerable notch. Kat was not a remarkable protagonist in the slightest. She was selfish and operated on her own whims - breaking the laws and the \"sacred\" unwritten rules of her world - to do whatever she damned well pleased to. She was shallow, under-developed and spoke with an oddly cryptic, almost philosophical voice that annoyed the heck out of me. We could never get a straight answer from her and even if we did, the motivation behind her actions was never explained in way that made me feel like I knew her intentions. The secondary characters were okay. By \"okay\", I mean nothing special. Hale was sweet, a little aloof and abnormally sexy for a sixteen year old. Gabrielle was a little clich\u00e9d - your typical \"girly girl\" spy - but bluntly straight with you in that keep-you-honest sort of way. The Bagshaws were easily my favourites. The jokers. The clowns. They were just your typical guys. They one you were mates with in school. Funny, utterly hilarious. Nick was meh. I enjoyed his contribution to the plot, but that about it. He was nothing special, nothing interesting, just nothing much at all. The plot was the best part of the novel, but nothing brilliant. The concept was there and the general outline of the plot had me eagerly flipping the pages but what I found on those pages didn't do much for me. The big end finale was so intense, suspenseful but that ending! I had no idea what happened. Nothing made sense. I just didn't know what the hell was happening... Overall, I still don't know how I feel about this book, which is never a good sign after completion. The characters were a little too aloof, but I loved them still. I enjoyed learning about art thieves and their cons ad jobs and politics and rules, it was fascinating. The plot was intense, until the last few chapters. I am left with a tonne of questions and still feel completely confused. ...more I love tales about thieves and con artists, book series like The Curse Workers and movies like Ocean\u2019s Eleven. I love it when seemingly random events come together neatly and cleverly in the end. Therefore, I loved Heist Society. It is admittedly not as clever as White Cat, for example, but I had a hard time putting it down and that\u2019s a big deal these days. Fifteen-year-old Katarina Bishop is a very experienced con artist. She may be ridiculously young, but in her line of work, she\u2019s one of the b I love tales about thieves and con artists, book series like The Curse Workers and movies like Ocean\u2019s Eleven. I love it when seemingly random events come together neatly and cleverly in the end. Therefore, I loved Heist Society. It is admittedly not as clever as White Cat, for example, but I had a hard time putting it down and that\u2019s a big deal these days. Fifteen-year-old Katarina Bishop is a very experienced con artist. She may be ridiculously young, but in her line of work, she\u2019s one of the best. Descended from a long line of skilled con men and educated by her own father, Kat knows every trick in the book. But the kind of life she\u2019s been leading for as long as she can remember can be very tiresome so she\u2019s decided to try something different \u2013 get a proper education. At the beginning of Heist Society, Kat is being expelled from a very prestigious boarding school she\u2019d conned her way into. Her best friend and fellow con artist, W.W. Hale the Fifth, set her up and had her expelled, all because her father\u2019s in trouble and needs help. Someone has stolen five absurdly expensive paintings from Arturo Taccone, a very rich and unscrupulous man who is convinced that Kat\u2019s dad is responsible and is ready to do anything at all to get them back. He doesn\u2019t care that her father has an alibi and that he\u2019s being watched by the Interpol. He just wants his property back, and to give it back to him, Kat and her friends have to steal them from a place no one has ever broken into \u2013 the Henley museum in London. I\u2019m not sure why I waited so long to read Heist Society \u2013 it\u2019s exactly the kind of book I usually can\u2019t resist \u2013 light, fast and utterly unputdownable. Once I started thinking about flaws, I realized it is also a bit too short. There was room for a few more plot twists, and although I\u2019m not normally a fan of watered down plots, I did feel that things were happening far too fast. The characters were all interesting, colorful and full of quirks. I loved getting to know them and figuring them out, enjoyed trying to understand their motives and loyalties. Although Kat is the main character, I feel that I\u2019ve learned more about the others than I did about her, but some things were made clearer towards the end and I can\u2019t wait to discover more in Uncommon Criminals. Although there are two gorgeous boys in Kat\u2019s world, Heist Society is really romance-free. There are hints of a relationship and some scenes did feel a bit love triangle-ish, but it is quite clear who Kat belongs with, and I\u2019m pretty confident that\u2019s who she\u2019ll end up with. To make the long story short (*gasp* Yes, I do that occasionally!), I highly recommend this book to anyone looking for a quick summer read. Also posted at The Nocturnal Library ...more WHY? I don't understand all these stellar reviews. It's mind boggling because truly this book was nothing spectacular. It was clever, sure. I like the idea of it more than I like the book per se. The main character is a ninny. All she ever does is float around worrying, trying to reassure me that although she has/had amazing ninja stealing skills, she doesn't approve of them. GET OUT OF THE WAY PRISCILLA, I'LL TAKE YOUR PLACE. GUN-FRICKING-HO. Not to mention she was flat. Like, tasteless kind of WHY? I don't understand all these stellar reviews. It's mind boggling because truly this book was nothing spectacular. It was clever, sure. I like the idea of it more than I like the book per se. The main character is a ninny. All she ever does is float around worrying, trying to reassure me that although she has/had amazing ninja stealing skills, she doesn't approve of them. GET OUT OF THE WAY PRISCILLA, I'LL TAKE YOUR PLACE. GUN-FRICKING-HO. Not to mention she was flat. Like, tasteless kind of wafer flat. All the other characters were the ice-cream and chocolate sauce to cover up her extreme flatness. She has no personality once you take away her endless worrying and that killed the story for me endlessly. Even the mysterious little slice about her leaving the family fails to add a bit of ambitious independence to her character because it was never really explained fully. THIS BOOK CONFUSES ME GREATLY. I had to pull out my 'lolkay I'll go with it, see if it makes more sense once they give me a few more clues'. I never got those clues and I valiantly finished this book out of loyalty for my liking of the other characters. Like not love. Even they could have used a bit of oomph. The main villain turned out to be not scary at all. His presence was more of an annoying blot throughout the story. Give the timeline some purpose for it's pace. Seriously I met scarier monkeys then this bloke, I mean chimpanzees who rip peoples lips and eyelids off. This guys had some menace going but he was never actually scary. ...more I spent the better half of today tucked between the covers in my bed reading this gem. It was such a fun experience as always with Ally's books. I love this crew and the theme is A+, of course! Kat just took a spot among some of my favorite YA heroines. There are a few things that bothered me a bit: a. as much as short skirts =/= anything bad and YAY for girls wearing them if they want to and not wearing them if they don't want to, but it bothered me that Gabrielle is 16 and when (view spoiler) [ I spent the better half of today tucked between the covers in my bed reading this gem. It was such a fun experience as always with Ally's books. I love this crew and the theme is A+, of course! Kat just took a spot among some of my favorite YA heroines. There are a few things that bothered me a bit: a. as much as short skirts =/= anything bad and YAY for girls wearing them if they want to and not wearing them if they don't want to, but it bothered me that Gabrielle is 16 and when (view spoiler) [she wore a super short skirt and high heels into that museum (hide spoiler) ] it's described as all the men stopped doing and thinking what they were doing and thinking, and were mesmerized by her; I meaaaan ok that's cool I don't mind it, but she's 16! She's just a kid and it made me really, really uncomfortable that grown up men would ogle her like that yikes. b. I simply wish that we got to know the crew a lot more in depth, because they're all so great and I'm already in love with them, but more physical description, personality traits, background etc would have been nice. Things such as where did the crew know Simon from? How did the brothers end up at Uncle Eddie's? Where is Gabrielle's dad? etc but since there are two more books (and possibly more?) this may occur later, so fingers crossed! I figured out one of the twists (view spoiler) [Nick being not-so-honest because why would a random dude decide to do a heist if there was nothing in it for him (the others are Kat's family so I understand their motives to help her bloodline) and I very much doubt that he'd have done it just for the sake of experience (hide spoiler) ] but other than that this book was entertaining and SUPER DUPER SHIPPY!!!!! Let me tell you: I. HAD. FEELS. (all over the place) First more than 3 stars of the year! /fist pump/ Can't wait to see what happens next and the preview at the end of the book promises more awesome mysterious things in continuation for the previous book. I'm excited to learn more! *you can see the graphic in HQ on my tumblr in a Heist Society graphic set here .[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Review when I first read this book, September 2011: 3 Stars. I REALLY liked this book! Very different from what I am used to reading, which is fantasy and chick-lit. I really liked the story line, and I can't wait to read the second book! The only thing I wish was different about this book, is the main character, Kat. I like her, but I feel like I didn't know enough about her. I found myself wanting to know more about her personality, or her past. With that aside, I loved just about everything els Review when I first read this book, September 2011: 3 Stars. I REALLY liked this book! Very different from what I am used to reading, which is fantasy and chick-lit. I really liked the story line, and I can't wait to read the second book! The only thing I wish was different about this book, is the main character, Kat. I like her, but I feel like I didn't know enough about her. I found myself wanting to know more about her personality, or her past. With that aside, I loved just about everything else. I really enjoyed this book, and would recommend this to anyone looking for a quick, yet interesting and thrilling book. UPDATED REVIEW January 2016: Still a 3 star book for me. I enjoyed it the second time around, and I had forgotten most of what happened. It was such an easy, fast-paced read, and I enjoyed the change of pace from the heavier, slower-paced books I have been reading lately. It was fun, definitely targeted toward younger readers, but I personally tend to love that stuff too! I will definitely be continuing with the second book soon. I want to finally check this off of my unfinished-series list. ...more Rating: 4.5 stars Favourite Quote: \"It is an occupational hazard that anyone who has spent her life learning how to lie eventually becomes bad at telling the truth.\" Heist Society is a brilliant read! It was fun and fast paced and I loved every minute of it. Kat is a 15 year old retired thief or was until she was forced to get back in the family business in order to save her Dad. Her father has been set up, accused of stealing paintings from a mobster type of guy that lead to some very dangerous co Rating: 4.5 stars Favourite Quote: \"It is an occupational hazard that anyone who has spent her life learning how to lie eventually becomes bad at telling the truth.\" Heist Society is a brilliant read! It was fun and fast paced and I loved every minute of it. Kat is a 15 year old retired thief or was until she was forced to get back in the family business in order to save her Dad. Her father has been set up, accused of stealing paintings from a mobster type of guy that lead to some very dangerous consequences. With help from her crew including the yummy Hale she is going to steal the painting back and clear her father's name. But this is the biggest and most dangerous heist of Kat's life. Carter has written a well thought out plot. They were surprises around every corner and it certainly kept me on the edge of my seat. I loved that I could never predict what was going to happen next. It was exciting and completely addictive. And the characters what a funny, warm and brave bunch! I would love to hang out with Kat and the crew. Kat is strong, determined and instantly likeable. And I loved the dynamics between Kat and her friends. There is plenty of witty dialogue that ensured I was grinning the whole way through. There is a tiny bit of romance. You can see there are some feelings between Kat and a certain thief. Carter is taking the slow and natural progression which I love. Although further down the series I am sure I am going to begging for Carter to make something happen. But for now I am enjoying the playful and some time sweet banter. \"Dancing. Come on. You can do it. It's a lot like navigating through a laser grid. It requires rhythm.' He moved her hips to the beat of the distant music. 'And patience.' He spun her around slowly and back toward him. 'And it's only fun if you trust your partner.' The dip was so slow, so smooth that Kat didn't know it was happening until the world was already turned upside down and Hale's face was inches from her own. Count me in, Kat.' He squeezed her tighter. 'You should always count me in.\" After finishing this I am left thinking to myself why didn't I read this earlier and of course had to start book #2 Uncommon Criminals immediately. I definitely recommend this if you are looking for a fun novel with entertaining characters and a fantastic premise. Don't miss out on this awesome series. ...more After a childhood spent assisting her father, one of the world\u2019s most talented art thieves, Katarina Bishop tries to leave the family business behind when she forges her way into a New England boarding school. She quickly discovers, though, that her past is inescapable. Her father has been accused of stealing already stolen masterpieces from a dangerous Italian billionaire. Certain that her father is innocent, Kat resolves to find the missing paintings and return them to their unsavory owner, wh After a childhood spent assisting her father, one of the world\u2019s most talented art thieves, Katarina Bishop tries to leave the family business behind when she forges her way into a New England boarding school. She quickly discovers, though, that her past is inescapable. Her father has been accused of stealing already stolen masterpieces from a dangerous Italian billionaire. Certain that her father is innocent, Kat resolves to find the missing paintings and return them to their unsavory owner, who has given her a two-week deadline. Her dad is currently under surveillance by Interpol (a result of the job he was actually pulling on the night the paintings were stolen), so that leaves Kat to discover who pulled the art heist and get the mobster's paintings back before he starts hurting the people she loves. In her discreet way, Carter sets the stage for a future romance, but the reader is left wondering if it will be Hale, fellow thief, or Nick, whose mom is investigating Kat's father. In a world of rushed romances in literature, it is refreshing to see a romance built slowly over friendship. One of the best parts of this book is how Carter weaved some history into the art heist when Kat \"meets\" Mr. Romani, who is working diligently to recover artwork stolen by the Nazis. Hopefully in future books, readers will be able to learn more about Kat's parents and perhaps how the family started stealing in the first place. This is a thoroughly enjoyable, cinema-ready adventure, and the details of thieving tools and techniques, lavish settings, and cast of eccentric characters, including possible spies and love interests, all add texture and depth to the action. Carter's style is conversational, smooth, and clever, exposing Kat's wry humor and her steely determination. Amid themes of family loyalty and identity, the protagonist comes to understand herself, her beliefs, and her place in her family. More of Purplycookie\u2019s Reviews @: http://www.goodreads.com/purplycookie Book Details: Title Heist Society (Heisty Society #1) Author Ally Carter Reviewed By Purplycookie ...more 3.5 Stars First Marie Lu with Legend and now Ally Carter... Let me ask you one thing, what kind of sixteen year old kids were you back then? My big and only problem with this book is how a couple of sixteen year old kids manage to do extraordinary things despite not being this a fantasy book? Or was it? Why so goddamn young? Heist Society was good, very good . The kind of book you can read on a sunny afternoon. It was funny, smart, light and so delightfully written. Kind of Ocean's Eleven for YA, 3.5 Stars First Marie Lu with Legend and now Ally Carter... Let me ask you one thing, what kind of sixteen year old kids were you back then? My big and only problem with this book is how a couple of sixteen year old kids manage to do extraordinary things despite not being this a fantasy book? Or was it? Why so goddamn young? Heist Society was good, very good . The kind of book you can read on a sunny afternoon. It was funny, smart, light and so delightfully written. Kind of Ocean's Eleven for YA, but instead of steamy George, you have dreamy W.W. Hale. I loved the narrative POV. It made it a lot more interesting than if it'd have been told from Kat's POV. Maybe it was short but I never felt bored. There wasn't unnecessary lame romance, all the characters were captivating, the two brothers reminded me of George and Fred , Simon was so cute and the beautiful cousin is spin-off material, all the way. The bad guy? Yeah, not so bad guy for me. Kind of amusing, actually. However, I really liked this book. Can't wait to read Uncommon Criminals . ...more 4.5 stars! I love heist movies so I guess it's not much of a surprised that I really enjoyed this book!! I loved the countdown pages and how this book made me feel like I've traveled the world as part of their team haa. There were some scenes that I wished I could have seen since I had trouble visualizing some of the details of their heist even with the descriptive narrative. The characters were all fantastic and hilarious. The crew dynamic was my favorite! Full review to come! Oh, Kat. You are sneaky. OK. At this point, I don't know where i left the book. But the book seemed promesing. Three stars in the best way possible. :) This is the story of Katarina Bishop. She is a teenager, a boarding school reject, and an unambiguously moralistic thief. Kat and her posse of fellow teen thieves are on a mission to clear her dad's name of a dangerous crime before the dude he supposedly ripped off (who has the coolest name ever, Arturo Taccone ) uses her father as an example of what happens when Mr. Taccone is crossed. Intrigue! Honestly, the beginning chapters did not grab me. At all. I th Three stars in the best way possible. :) This is the story of Katarina Bishop. She is a teenager, a boarding school reject, and an unambiguously moralistic thief. Kat and her posse of fellow teen thieves are on a mission to clear her dad's name of a dangerous crime before the dude he supposedly ripped off (who has the coolest name ever, Arturo Taccone ) uses her father as an example of what happens when Mr. Taccone is crossed. Intrigue! Honestly, the beginning chapters did not grab me. At all. I thought that the writing was trying too hard, Kat was unreadable and/or boring, and the billionaire teenagers with a plethora of skills (they're mastermind thieves and know how to smolder!) were completely unrealistic. Let's talk about how these issues improved... or didn't. The writing. Overall, I really did enjoy Carter's writing style. This may be a stretch to some of you, but I was overwhelmingly reminded of E. Lockhart's writing in Frankie Landau-Banks . Frankie was a five-star book for me, so I mean that as a compliment. Both books have a certain polish and flair that I really like, as well as a propensity to be dramatic and self-important. You know... Although Kat did not know it at the time, what she did next would lead to one of the most important - and dangerous - events of her life! Not a direct quote, but both books employ that kind of dramatics to tell the story. The characters. First off, Kat never excited me much. I think of this as a more plot-centered book anyway, so I doubt it was ever on Carter's priority list to give the reader a deep and heartbreaking look at Kat's psyche or anything like that. Hale was basically Mr. Smexy. Apparently even grown women can't handle his charm, which I found unrealistic (dude, he's sixteen), but then I remembered that he's also a billionaire. And let's face it, money makes people hotter. Especially when said people are billionaires. The assorted teens who join Kat's thieving ranks are enjoyable and diverse. True, they don't wander much from their pre-established stereotypes, but they're quite fun. And Gabrielle gave Kat some legitimately good boy advice, and if Kat had bothered to take this advice a whole lot of romantic angst would have been avoided. But we can't have that, can we? Plot. Hey there, book-ruiner. Well, not ruin . But the whole set-up required a willingness to buy a premise that I just can't buy. Perhaps there are some teenagers who would be able to pull off a huge heist like this, but I didn't believe that these teenagers could. They spent too much time bantering and flirting and not enough time planning the dang thing. Carter made a very purposeful choice to make Kat and Co. clearly on the \"good\" side in this whole criminal business. They steal things just to give them back to their rightful owners! Maybe some readers would require this in order to enjoy the shenanigans, but I thought it was kinda silly. TIME OUT. I am sounding quite negative, so lemme take a minute to say that once the plot took off I was having the time of my life. The humor was very, very enjoyable and I thought that Nick was an interesting addition. I was so suspicious of him; I thought I had the whole plot twist figured out.... but I was wrong. Hale was good for the role he played. I especially liked the scene where he followed Kat to the bakery. (Maybe my love for Peeta has just made all romantic scenes involving baked goods automatically awesome for me.) I mean, he handed her a cup of hot chocolate and draped his coat over her shoulders! Sa-woon. There was a familiarity and immediacy in this book that I also really loved. These characters know each other well, and Carter didn't go out of her way to make their connections clear. I was extremely confused during the majority of the book as to how Hale and Kat even knew each other, and Carter just explained it in one line of dialogue near the end of the book. Very sly! And my most favorite gimmick she used was the pattern of mentioning, in passing, various tricks that could be used in a robbery. They had silly names like Avon Lady, Mary Poppins, and Five O'Clock Shadows. Best part: \"Princess Bride?\" Hamish offered, but his brother turned to him. \"Do you know where we can find a six-fingered man on such short notice?\" ...more Actual Rating: 3.5 Did you know that your great-great-grandmother was a very fine painter in her own right?\" Kat nodded. She did know. Who else could have forged the Mona Lisa that hung in the Louvre? If you are looking for a really complicated book with mean thieves, this is not your book. If you are looking for a big hot romance, this is not your book. Yet, I hope. Now, if you are looking for a light read with a lot of cons and testing others' abilities, this is definitely your book. Never live Actual Rating: 3.5 Did you know that your great-great-grandmother was a very fine painter in her own right?\" Kat nodded. She did know. Who else could have forged the Mona Lisa that hung in the Louvre? If you are looking for a really complicated book with mean thieves, this is not your book. If you are looking for a big hot romance, this is not your book. Yet, I hope. Now, if you are looking for a light read with a lot of cons and testing others' abilities, this is definitely your book. Never live anyplace you can't walk away from. Never own anything you can't leave behind. In this book we get into Kat's life and yes, we know she is from a thief's family. We also know she is in one of her great con, getting into a boarding school.However, if you expect to read about the life of a thief trying to live a normal life (except for the really rich people around her in the school), you are wrong. After our cute billionaire thief (Hale) stole Kat away from her dreamy normal life, we get to see all the action and meet all the cool good guys. Or should I say good bad guys? Because this book really remind me of white collar. All those cons, pickpocket and art thieves... I really enjoyed how all of them were a family and they honored it. It made the story much more interesting how Kat was from a cool family of thieves and she had everything to learn how to be the best but she just wanted to be a normal girl. Hale, on the other side, had everything, plus all the money all thief wanted. However, he just wanted to learn her world. Anyway, having to deal with a really bad guy (view spoiler) [ Okay, I really expected him to be dead mean. For a horrible guy he was too... Not bad. I expected more here. (hide spoiler) ] , putting together a crew, trusting the right and the wrong people, having to steal from really well-known places and trying to mislead the Interpol made me really entertained. All of this while travelling the world in the most fancy ways. \"I could go make some calls . . . check on some things. ...\" \"Play some blackjack?\" \"Well, when in Rome ...\" \"Rome is tomorrow, babe,\" Kat reminded him. (view spoiler) [ I just got disturbed in the beginning when Gabs and Hale were all \"you left\" with Kat. Okay, she left but you two took her away from the life she wanted. Called her there, and now that she is trying to help and all in a life she expected to be out, the two of them were all too mean to her D: (hide spoiler) ] Overall it was a really cute and fast read with a lot of cliche thieves/spy things that I really liked and were right to be there. I will definitely get the next one.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Katarina Bishop has pulled off one of the biggest cons of her life, stealing an education to one of the best schools in the world, only to be framed, expelled, and thrown back into her old life of lies and thievery. Five famous pieces of art work as been stolen by someone who's not to be messed with and Kat's father as been blamed. Now Kat and her band of thieves has two weeks to steal it back. Heist Society is a surge of excitement and an absolute thrilling blast! I have to hand it to Ally Carter, Katarina Bishop has pulled off one of the biggest cons of her life, stealing an education to one of the best schools in the world, only to be framed, expelled, and thrown back into her old life of lies and thievery. Five famous pieces of art work as been stolen by someone who's not to be messed with and Kat's father as been blamed. Now Kat and her band of thieves has two weeks to steal it back. Heist Society is a surge of excitement and an absolute thrilling blast! I have to hand it to Ally Carter, who masterfully wrote a book of this magnitude. It's amazingly put together and controlled as she weaves an adventure, that would rival movies like The Italian Job and Ocean's 11 , which I thought were amazing movies, as this is an amazingly put together scam. The plot is a running rush as Kat and her team of cons, travel city to city, country to country, piecing all the clues and using there skills to find out who the mastermind is, save Kat's father and make it right. I loved every single one of these characters. They each brought in there own side of brilliance and charm but my two favorites would have to be Kat and Hale. Kat is such a suave and stylish character while Hale is seductive and sexy. There banter and wit made for a rather appealing and fun treat. Fast paced suspense leaps off of these pages in such a calculating profound way. This is a fun book. An intelligent book. And I loved every second of it! By far the most entertaining books I've read this year and I can only pray we get more! ...more http://angelerin.blogspot.com/2016/04... I just adored Heist Society! It was such a cute and fun read. I was not sure what to expect going into this one since I am not usually interested in espionage novels, but this series just looked so good that I decided to try it. Plus I needed an espionage read for the Insane Genre Challenge. I am glad I gave it a try because it was the perfect YA espionage novel. This book is just what I was looking for when I picked it up. It has everything in it that I w http://angelerin.blogspot.com/2016/04... I just adored Heist Society! It was such a cute and fun read. I was not sure what to expect going into this one since I am not usually interested in espionage novels, but this series just looked so good that I decided to try it. Plus I needed an espionage read for the Insane Genre Challenge. I am glad I gave it a try because it was the perfect YA espionage novel. This book is just what I was looking for when I picked it up. It has everything in it that I wanted it to have. There's espionage and traveling, but it's also super cute and fun. After reading Heist Society it really made me want to travel even more. Or pull a heist! Okay, maybe not REALLY pull a heist haha. :P The thing I liked best about Heist Society is that it's full of espionage, but it felt like espionage light to me. I don't have that much experience with espionage, but I know I don't like when it feels too heavy. If that makes any sense. So I am glad that this one ended up being a fun read and it didn't drag for me. Overall Heist Society was an entertaining and light read. It's a good one to add in between heavier books. It's just such a fun and fluffy read! Also, it's a pretty clean novel so I can see it being suitable for young teens. I can't wait to read more of the series! I recommend Heist Society for anyone just trying out the espionage genre and for anyone looking for an espionage novel that is light and full of adventure. ...more As a fan of Ally Carter's Gallagher Girls series, I was surprised to find out that she was coming out with another series. However, surprise quickly turned into anticipation after I read the summary of Heist Society, especially since it was about thieves. Heist Society was a great, quick read. The plot was suspenseful, full of twists and turns; the characters were unique and interesting; and the writing was quite dramatic at times, making certain scenes have more of an impact to the story. I reall As a fan of Ally Carter's Gallagher Girls series, I was surprised to find out that she was coming out with another series. However, surprise quickly turned into anticipation after I read the summary of Heist Society, especially since it was about thieves. Heist Society was a great, quick read. The plot was suspenseful, full of twists and turns; the characters were unique and interesting; and the writing was quite dramatic at times, making certain scenes have more of an impact to the story. I really liked the character development that occurred throughout the novel in Kat. The little love triangle also made the story even more intriguing, although I know who I'm still rooting for if a certain someone comes back. XD I can't wait for the next book to come out! ...more This book was like a mash up of National Treasure and the Pink Panther movies! Kind of slow at times, and not enough detail or explanation at other, it was overall a fun and quick read with a lot of suspense and build up. I felt that it would have been better if it had of been written in first person and I didn't like the love triangle between Hale, Kat, and Nick but than I usually don't like love triangles so maybe its just me. As I said overall a enjoyable read and I will be reading the next on This book was like a mash up of National Treasure and the Pink Panther movies! Kind of slow at times, and not enough detail or explanation at other, it was overall a fun and quick read with a lot of suspense and build up. I felt that it would have been better if it had of been written in first person and I didn't like the love triangle between Hale, Kat, and Nick but than I usually don't like love triangles so maybe its just me. As I said overall a enjoyable read and I will be reading the next ones to find out who the mysterious visily romani is! ...more That was so much fun! The perfect holiday read. Off to read the second book.^^ 3,5 I loved Hale so much. I loved that. I wish I had the second one with me right now 3 and a half :) Heist Society is like reading Ocean's Eleven but with a rag tag bunch of teens (including best friend hottie, glamour girl and geektastastic nerds). It's actually already been optioned for a film and I can see why. Not only is the plot intricate with a glamorous setting, but the writing is really a cut above. I loved the sophisticated tone and intelligent humour that amused me from the first chapter. Even with teenage protags, it doesn't necessarily have a YA feel about it. It's in 3 and a half :) Heist Society is like reading Ocean's Eleven but with a rag tag bunch of teens (including best friend hottie, glamour girl and geektastastic nerds). It's actually already been optioned for a film and I can see why. Not only is the plot intricate with a glamorous setting, but the writing is really a cut above. I loved the sophisticated tone and intelligent humour that amused me from the first chapter. Even with teenage protags, it doesn't necessarily have a YA feel about it. It's in third person POV, mostly from Kat, sometimes bordering on omniscient. Kat is the funkiest of main characters, spunky and determined, yet you see glimpses of insecurity that make her real and her motivations complex. In particular, I loved her dialogue. I wish I had connected to her a smidgen more though. Ally Carter knows how to keep the pace cracking with plot twists and clever foreshadowing. Add an eccentric but eeevil villain who continually ups the stakes and a puzzling and complex climax and you have an impressive book that it just plain fun. Confessions: Occasionally, I got lost with the plot, haha. I think I don't have the brain of a criminal and I floundered every now and then keeping track of the players. Probably b/c the pacing is pretty hard-core. I am a fan of fast-paced plots, so bring it on anyway :) I wanted to see more of Hale (Kat's best friend who is ever so cool and hot in the very best of ways). I'm wondering if it's the first in a series... I didnt think it would be so well written. Continually startled by the intelligent wit and smooth narration. Some of it reminded me of Adult Fiction author Jeffrey Archer's style, who writes cleverly with foreshadowing and double-crossing and characters who spark with wit and high IQ's... Conclusion: I gave it three and a half stars. Me & my ratings, it's a complex thing... It's definitely got the making of a 5 star book, plot so brilliant, writing so unique and intriguing. So, basically, my three and a half stars hovers between I liked it and I really liked it. It's not a fave b/c I mostly love character driven books, and this is is mostly plot. Occasionally, my brain hurt figuring it out, LOL . However, I'll be reading more of Ally Carter for sure as she has talent (like, whoah) and I think this book brings something unique to the YA scene. And, when I see other 5 star reviews, yeah, I think it deserves it, b/c if this premise appeals to you, you wouldn't find much better than this... Recommended if you like mystery and action and fast-paced round-the-world double crossing crime scene showdowns. If this sounds like your kind of thing you should definitely read the first chapter here. It showcases Ally Carter's beautiful writing and starts with intelligence and intrigue :) ...more", "Title": "Heist Society"},
