{"Comments": "\u201cWould\u2019ee speak a word of prayer first, Roland? To whatever God thee holds?\u201d \u201cI hold to no God,\u201d Roland said. \u201cI hold to the Tower and won\u2019t pray to that.<---F>\u201d Damn, I love that line</---F>. It so perfectly sums up Roland,<---M> his quest to find the Tower</---M>, what it\u2019s cost him, and how he knows he isn\u2019t done paying yet. For years, it seemed like Dark Tower had been walking in aimless circles during the long breaks between the third, fourth and fifth books. We knew that King had finished the final three volumes after \u201cWould\u2019ee speak a word of prayer first, Roland? To whatever God thee holds?\u201d \u201cI hold to no God,\u201d Roland said. \u201cI hold to the Tower and won\u2019t pray to that.\u201d Damn, I love that line. It so perfectly sums up Roland, his quest to find the Tower, what it\u2019s cost him, and how he knows he isn\u2019t done paying yet. For years, it seemed like Dark Tower had been walking in aimless circles during the long breaks between the third, fourth and fifth books. We knew that King had finished the final three volumes after losing a game of chicken with a minivan, and he\u2019d gotten the story back up and striding briskly in the right direction with Wolves of the Calla including ending that one on a pretty wicked cliffhanger. Still the pace of this one took me by surprise. It\u2019s like King suddenly pulled out a whip and started cracking it over the heads of the DT fans while screaming, \u201cRun, you bastards! You gotta run if you want to find out what happens! BWAH-HA-HA-HA-HA!\u201d And he didn\u2019t even let us stretch properly first. That\u2019s how you end up with a pulled hamstring. Susannah\u2019s demon pregnancy led to her being taken over by the personality of Mia, and she fled Mid-World to New York in 1999 via the Doorway Cave. As Susannah wrestles Mia for control of her own body and learns more about the Crimson King, Roland and <---C>Eddie</---C> plan to follow and save her while Jake and Callahan also come to our world to protect the rose growing in a vacant lot which is actually a critical incarnation of the Tower. But when things go off the rails, all of the gunslingers will have to scramble to try and save not only Susannah, but their own lives. This is essentially a set-up book that preps the way for the conclusion in the last one, and it doesn\u2019t resolve a helluva lot on it\u2019s own. Still, I like it for its breakneck pace and the sense of urgency that King worked into this one. The breaking of a beam in Mid-World before the action moves to New York was a great reminder of the stakes here. The lines of force holding reality together are being subverted by the Crimson King\u2019s breakers, and the so-called beamquake when one snaps is a stark warning to Roland and company that they are quickly running out of time. Unfortunately, while the Susannah pregnancy story makes for a pretty good hook to drive the urgency of the story, it ends up being kind of unsatisfying overall once you know how the whole series ends. Plus, the conflict between Susannah and Mia reminded me a lot of a very similar plot that King had done in Dreamcatcher shortly before this book was released so it didn\u2019t seem all that fresh. Overall, there\u2019s a feel of desperation in this one that takes us nicely into the final volume, and the cliffhangers here had me on the edge of my seat the first time I read this. There\u2019s one controversial piece to this part of the DT story. (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [ A lot of fans don\u2019t like that King wrote himself into this, and I was hesitant about it myself the first time through this when I wasn\u2019t sure how the story would end. At the end of Wolves of the Calla and into this one, I was worried that it was going to turn out that the Dark Tower was <---A>Stephen King</---A> himself and that its fall was his \u2018death\u2019 due to the minivan accident. Knowing the ending now and rereading this, writing himself into the story doesn\u2019t bother me as much. If he\u2019d portrayed himself as some kind of all-knowing creator, I might have hated it too, but he didn\u2018t. He\u2019s a pawn with a role to play. A role he kind of screws up by not getting off his ass and finishing this series sooner. I like that the power behind the Tower is the force of creation itself, and that the Crimson King and the other baddies are agents of chaos and destruction. I think of it as the Tower was saving itself by creating a story of a hero on a quest, and it needed someone to write that story. Enter King, who actually made himself look kind of crappy in the process. It\u2019s not my favorite part of the series, but it didn\u2019t ruin it for me either. (hide spoiler) ] ...more The story wasn't bad, some of the new characters were interesting, but I cannot give it a higher rating because of the author himself. Stephen King has indulged in the ULTIMATE form of ego stroking in this volume and it pissed me off. The plot could've been structured some other way to avoid what he's doing right now - you *can* adjust plot, much as it sometimes hurts to do so - and the fact that he went ahead and wrote what he wrote is annoying and... well, gross. It's gross. I had hoped, by the The story wasn't bad, some of the new characters were interesting, but I cannot give it a higher rating because of the author himself. Stephen King has indulged in the ULTIMATE form of ego stroking in this volume and it pissed me off. The plot could've been structured some other way to avoid what he's doing right now - you *can* adjust plot, much as it sometimes hurts to do so - and the fact that he went ahead and wrote what he wrote is annoying and... well, gross. It's gross. I had hoped, by the time I finished the book, that I could understand why he did it, that maybe I'd see that the story really *had* to be written that way. At the end of this book, I didn't see that and was still irked. And disappointed. Only one more book to go, and I'm doubting he'll redeem himself in my eyes... ...more The 2011 re-read: Susanna/Mia uses Black Thirteen and flees to New York to have her baby. Roland, Eddie, Jake, and Callahan get the Manni to open the Unfound Door and end up in the wrong places. Can Roland and Eddie convince Calvin Tower to sell them the lot where the Rose grows? Can Jake and Callahan find Susannah before she has her baby? <+++>Song of Susannah</+++> was my least favorite book in the Dark Tower series the first time through. Susannah has never been my favorite character in the Dark Tower sag The 2011 re-read: Susanna/Mia uses Black Thirteen and flees to New York to have her baby. Roland, Eddie, Jake, and Callahan get the Manni to open the Unfound Door and end up in the wrong places. Can Roland and Eddie convince Calvin Tower to sell them the lot where the Rose grows? Can Jake and Callahan find Susannah before she has her baby? <+++>Song of Susannah</+++> was my least favorite book in the Dark Tower series the first time through. Susannah has never been my favorite character in the Dark Tower saga and this book is really Susannah-heavy. On the second read, I had to raise it another star. The Susannah/Mia conflict had its moments and did a lot of setting up for the big shebang coming in the seventh and final book. A lot more background information was revealed. I'd be lying if I said Susannah was the reason I upped this one a star upon re-reading. The other reason is that Jake and Eddie seem like bonafide Gunslingers in this book, even more than they did in Wolves of the Calla. (view spoiler) [I have a feeling their fates in The Dark Tower are going to be almost as painful the second time through. (hide spoiler) ] The relationship between Eddie and Roland has developed quite a bit since The Drawing of the Three, as has Roland's character. I still love Long, Tall, and Ugly, even though he'd probably leave me along the Path of the Beam the first morning I bitched about not having coffee. There is something else that I liked a lot more the second time but it's pretty spoilerific. (view spoiler) [Now that I've had a few years to digest Stephen King writing himself into the story, it doesn't really irk me like it did the first time. (hide spoiler) ] While it's not my favorite of the Dark Tower books, it's still good and it lays a lot of the cards down on the table for the final volume, The Dark Tower. See you all along the Path of the Beam. ...more Upon coming to, Stephen King registered a mixed expression of fear, anger and puzzlement. Perhaps being bound and gagged had something to do with it. His face was contorted and purple and his hair was standing up with much of it covering his forehead and bulging eyes. The tall, ungainly gunslinger was standing over him, concerned and apologetic. \u201cSorry that I hit ya, Sai. If I take off the duct tape, will ya promise that ya won\u2019t scream?\u201d King vigorously nodded. \u201cYou was running away and shoutin\u2019 an Upon coming to, Stephen King registered a mixed expression of fear, anger and puzzlement. Perhaps being bound and gagged had something to do with it. His face was contorted and purple and his hair was standing up with much of it covering his forehead and bulging eyes. The tall, ungainly gunslinger was standing over him, concerned and apologetic. \u201cSorry that I hit ya, Sai. If I take off the duct tape, will ya promise that ya won\u2019t scream?\u201d King vigorously nodded. \u201cYou was running away and shoutin\u2019 and I didn\u2019t really know what else to do, but bop ya on the head,\u201d the gunslinger explained as he removed the tape. The first thing out of King\u2019s mouth: \u201cWho the hell are you?\u201d \u201cIt ain\u2019t really who I am that\u2019s important, it\u2019s who you are.\u201d \u201cHuh?\u201d \u201cYer the Gan, the God, the all-creator of everything. Books you wrote about a Dark Tower have kind of bled over into different realities. I\u2019m in one of these realities and I don\u2019t mind tellin\u2019 ya, things are getting mighty tough.\u201d \u201cCan you get me a beer?\u201d The gunslinger groaned and limped over to the refrigerator. \u201cWhy the hell are you limping so badly?\u201d \u201cMy nutsack is sore. It caught on the doorway when I got sucked into this here reality.\u201d King stared at the gunslinger as he removed the cap from the beer and gave King a swig. \u201cYou\u2019re not going to untie me, are you?\u201d \u201cLook my time is short and I\u2019ll do it right before I leave. I gots a list here in my pocket.\" He pulled a crumpled piece of paper from his pocket and started reading, slowly. \u201cFirst, don\u2019t write the Dark Tower books.\u201d \u201cIf I don\u2019t write them, then won\u2019t you disappear?\u201d \u201cHow in tarnation do ya figure that, Mr. Smarypants Gan?\u201d \u201cWell, if your existence is based on the writing of those books and I don\u2019t write them, then you won\u2019t be around.\u201d \u201cWell, hell, just\u2026uh\u2026write somethin\u2019 a little different.\u201d There was a sound of off-key chimes in the distance. \u201cPardon Sai, but I have to speed this up a bit. If you got to write them, write some of them shorter. Also, don\u2019t write books about the eyes of a dragon, Tom Gordon, a cell and\u2026\u201d The chimes were growing louder. \u201cAlso, if you get a visit from two blonde gunslingers, don\u2019t listen to a word they\u2019re sayin\u2019. They can be very persuasive and they\u2019ll put a hurtin\u2019 on ya. Don\u2019t eat no chocolate cake or drink any Kool-ade neither.\u201d The chimes were now deafening. \u201cGotta go, your ganship and thankee.\u201d The gunslinger limped quickly out the door. Suddenly, the chimes stopped. \u201cYou big galoot. You forgot to untie me.\u201d ...more Roland was looking fixedly at the already diminishing flickers of lightning in the east, where the land of Thunderclap waited for them, and the Court of the Crimson King, and, at the end of End-World, the Dark Tower itself. Extraordinary! I almost cannot wait for the ending, no matter how controversial. Full review to come. Dark Tower reviews : #1 The Gunslinger #2 The Drawing of the Three #3 The Waste Lands #4 Wizard and Glass #5 Wolves of the Calla #6 Song of Susannah #7 The Dark Tower I'm going to sit down and write reviews on the whole Dark Tower series after I finish, but I just have to say these books are becoming more and more tiresome. It just seems as if King has lost the vision of Roland the Gunslinger, so he - in order to have something to write about - constantly tinkers with the lore, changes history around, blames things on this multi-timestream concept, or spends whole novels describing an event merely to snap his fingers and change everything the next book so as I'm going to sit down and write reviews on the whole Dark Tower series after I finish, but I just have to say these books are becoming more and more tiresome. It just seems as if King has lost the vision of Roland the Gunslinger, so he - in order to have something to write about - constantly tinkers with the lore, changes history around, blames things on this multi-timestream concept, or spends whole novels describing an event merely to snap his fingers and change everything the next book so as to move his new plot line along. And the worst part of it all is that I've begun The Dark Tower VII: The Dark Tower and it appears to be in the same vein as the last two novels and not the great novels from earlier in the series. To me, The Gunslinger , The Waste Lands and Wizard and Glass were epic works, because King seamlessly combined fantasy, post-apocalyptic, horror, and - dare I say it - western themes to create something fresh and grand. Reading one of those novels was like trying out a new dessert for the first time and savoring this delicious taste you had discovered. On the other hand, The Drawing of the Three , Wolves of the Calla , and Song of Susannah read like contemporary, horror type novels, played out mainly in modern America rather than the addictive lands of Mid-World. It is just ho-hum fiction, nothing to set it apart from other books of that sort besides the title Dark Tower part whatever. And if the gradual unraveling of a once great story wasn't progressing fast enough, Stephen King decides to do something that is just unthinkable to me: write himself into the story as a god-creator, almost a Rose Part Deux. How could he have ever thought that was a good idea? I honestly don't know, because it did nothing to actually make sense of the growing mess that is the Dark Tower series. Perhaps it will help shape the ending, but if so, I have just went todash and have witnessed the train wreck which will be the end of the Dark Tower series. These are just my initial thoughts on Song of Susannah and the Dark Tower series as I begin reading the last book. No matter how annoyed I feel at this moment, I've made a commitment to finish the Dark Tower, so I will push forward, even though I cringe to think how bad the ending is going to be. ...more 7/10 Well played Mr. King, well played. Very clever of you to lower my expectations going into the final book with this less than stellar attempt. Clever indeed. Now I\u2019m not going into the final book with my expectations set at \u201cbest series finale ever!\u201d and more hoping for \u201cnicely wraps up the series\u201d. Whilst not the strongest in the series (possibly the weakest, if you can really call it weak) this was still an exciting read in places. Certain parts of the story actually were really good and mad 7/10 Well played Mr. King, well played. Very clever of you to lower my expectations going into the final book with this less than stellar attempt. Clever indeed. Now I\u2019m not going into the final book with my expectations set at \u201cbest series finale ever!\u201d and more hoping for \u201cnicely wraps up the series\u201d. Whilst not the strongest in the series (possibly the weakest, if you can really call it weak) this was still an exciting read in places. Certain parts of the story actually were really good and made for a very quick read overall. The shootout with Roland and Eddie near the beginning was one of the series highlights in fact and was truly gripping. The parts I didn\u2019t like all that much were the Mia and Susannah parts which did take up over half of the book, I found it hard to pay attention to these parts and was wishing for a quick return to some real \u201cGunslinging\u201d but they were necessary for the direction of the series (I can only hope/assume). It\u2019s hard to not put series spoilers in a review of the 6th book in a series but the following may contain mild ones (be warned!). The elephant in the room is clearly the fact that Stephen King writes himself into this story. This normally grates when an author does that, like Clive Cusslar, the egotistical, self-centred prick that he is. I really disliked it when he wrote himself into \u201cInca Gold\u201d and I just wanted to throw the book in the fire, the smug git. However, rant over, I actually quite liked what King was doing with this and how he met with certain characters and interacted with them in \u201creal life\u201d. I especially liked the Coda at the end where King was writing in a semi-biographical journal about his desire and need to return to the ka-tet for reasons unknown to himself. In summary, if you\u2019ve read the first 5 then the chances are you will read this and hopefully not be too disappointed with it. Some may even enjoy it and like what King is doing. I liked it but it definitely was not a series high and more a setup for the finale. I also noticed I\u2019ve not rated any of the books in the series higher than 4* individually but the series as a whole is definitely 5*. A series well worth starting if you\u2019ve not as of yet. If you like this try: \u201c11/22/63\u201d by Stephen King ...more Thanks for the earworms, uncle Stevie: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=08e9k... https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ipqqE... RTC once my ka-tet catches up. 3.5 I just finished Song of Susannah, and it's ending has made me want to immediately dive right into the last book of The Dark Tower series, The Dark Tower. For the past few weeks while I've been reading SoS, I've really been eager to find out if Roland makes it to The Tower. Now, I'm a little sad to be starting the last book, the final journey. I give SoS four stars. For me, it was a great installment, no doubt, to the series. However, I can't give it the extra star to make it a five star installm I just finished Song of Susannah, and it's ending has made me want to immediately dive right into the last book of The Dark Tower series, The Dark Tower. For the past few weeks while I've been reading SoS, I've really been eager to find out if Roland makes it to The Tower. Now, I'm a little sad to be starting the last book, the final journey. I give SoS four stars. For me, it was a great installment, no doubt, to the series. However, I can't give it the extra star to make it a five star installment for a few reasons. I believe five star books should touch the reader in a special way, or grip you unlike any other novel can. For me, The Waste Lands and Wolves of the Calla, (books 3 and 5 of The Dark Tower series) did those things to me. SoS to me felt like a book just to get you 'there,' to that last book. Some of the questions I had, ideas in my head, were answered or confirmed in this book. Some of the revelations, you know what I'm talking about if you've read it, made me say, \"OMG!!! OH HELL TO THE NO!!\" But like I said, for me it was just a 'passage to the end of the journey' type book to me. For some reason, Roland is a character I....identify? with or maybe I just feel like I know him, or a version of him in real life. Eddie, I feel like I know him, too. He reminds me a lot of myself in a few ways, e.g. has an older brother who used to pick on and make fun of him. The drug addiction part....ha...definitely CANNOT identify with. Jake...There's something about him, too, I identify with. He reminds me of my eight year old nephew, who is most definitely, the coolest kid I know. Maybe that is why Jake has a special place in my literary heart. Oy....well, I love animals. I have two cats of my own, and my cat Gizmo....she would definitely make The Dark Tower journey with me, or something like it if I had to go on a similar quest. Plus, he just sounds so cute and adorable. Pere Callahan, I also find to be interesting, especially his story in 'Salem's Lot and how it relates to the Dark Tower series. (Nicely done, King.) I tell you of my like or love for those characters for a reason: Susannah/Odetta/Detta/Mia isn't my favorite character. We're both female, but I feel like I can't really relate to her. I am definitely not saying I dislike her character, because I don't. I think she's perfect for the series. But, I feel like, hmm....maybe I just don't connect with her or identify with her like I do the others. (To me, I don't consider being female a connection. I mean, I do in some cases, but for some reason, being female doesn't make me feel connected to her, and I think identification should go deeper than that.) She definitely has an importance in this series, and King has utlized her character for many great things. Her story is interesting, too. Maybe it is my lack of identification with the character which makes this part of the journey a 4-star segment. Edit to add: I think another thing which urks me about this book, is Mia and the whole four personalities in one body. I liked it at first, but it got a little tiring to read for me, especially since the majority of the book was about Susannah. Maybe that's just me. Edit to add: As I was thinking about this book a moment ago, I was reminded of the scene in New York with Pere Callahan, Jake, and Oy. The street preacher with his \"Gawd bombs\" and \"say amen\" I could definitely picture in my head. He reminded me of a tele-evangelist in the south. I don't know why, but he did. The scene where Jake hits the cab car.....Oh my goodness...I remember thinking to myself: \"Damn, Jake.\" I could picture Callahan and Jake's scenes in my head all too clearly. Eddie and Roland's part in this book was also really interesting to me. I felt like I was with them trying to convince Tower to sell the property. Roland and Eddie's story and Jake, Oy and Callahan's story in this book were my favorite parts in this book. I also want to bring up something else, which I'm still unsure if it was brilliant, or a little pompous of King: (view spoiler) [ King inserting himself into this book. On one hand, I think it was a brilliant idea because of the 'universe' King has created with his books, and all of the connections his non-DT books have with the DT series, and vice versa. On the other hand, I found it a little show-offy. It's like, \"Yes, we get it King. We know you are one of the masters of modern day literature, and you'll be remembered until the end of time for your literary achievements and contributions to literature. But, did you really need to go there?\" Oh well....I found it a little ballsy of King. While I read the journal entries at the end of my edition, it made me wonder if King was alluding to his alcoholic and drug days when he was saying Roland and Eddie 'appeared' to him. He does talk about similar things of his writing process of this series. I wouldn't be surprised, though, if that was what he was alluding to. (hide spoiler) ] I'm off to end this journey with the last book of the series. I'm eager and sad at the same time. Eager because as I have read these books, it has become more than a desire to know what Roland finds in the Dark Tower, or if he even makes it. Not all stories have happy endings. The end has become a NEED to know, though.. I'm sad, too, because I think I like this series more than I thought I would by now. For a while, Wizard and Glass, the fourth book, pissed me off to no end, and almost made me want to quit the series. Thankfully, Wolves of the Calla drew me back in. (Say thankya, sai King.) Also, I'm a little eager because I feel like I'm a little tied down in my reading with how long these books are and the series is. I shouldn't complain though. The idea/s are beyond original, they are genius. The story is eventful, interesting, and sucks you in. But again, I'm sad because I do love the characters. At least I own these books and can re-read them at anytime. Dark Tower....here I come... ...more I've enjoyed this series immensely, all the way up until this book. Now I am reading the last one just to see if he can straighten out the mess he made here. What was he thinking? This is the ultimate in mental masturbation an author can produce. I liked the parts Eddie and Roland right up until they left Tower, and I kind of liked the bits with Jake, but the rest? Crap. It's crap! I know authors of serials sometimes put themselves in the story (Clive Cussler comes to mind,) but it's usually don I've enjoyed this series immensely, all the way up until this book. Now I am reading the last one just to see if he can straighten out the mess he made here. What was he thinking? This is the ultimate in mental masturbation an author can produce. I liked the parts Eddie and Roland right up until they left Tower, and I kind of liked the bits with Jake, but the rest? Crap. It's crap! I know authors of serials sometimes put themselves in the story (Clive Cussler comes to mind,) but it's usually done in such a brief, tongue-in-cheek way that it's like a little easter egg. This is way over the top, and it pissed me off. ...more Steven King's magnum opus. I've given a short review of all the books below. Based largely on the strengths of books 1, 2 and 4, I rate the whole series of seven books a three. On \"THE GUNSLINGER\" His first book in a very long series starts out well enough. On \"THE DRAWING OF THE THREE\" Gotta chuk!? Gotta up-chuk!? Okay, not so bad but not as good as the first. On \"THE WASTELANDS\" The series improves with fast-paced, difficult to follow forays into alternate realities. On \"WIZARD AND GLASS\" The best Steven King's magnum opus. I've given a short review of all the books below. Based largely on the strengths of books 1, 2 and 4, I rate the whole series of seven books a three. On \"THE GUNSLINGER\" His first book in a very long series starts out well enough. On \"THE DRAWING OF THE THREE\" Gotta chuk!? Gotta up-chuk!? Okay, not so bad but not as good as the first. On \"THE WASTELANDS\" The series improves with fast-paced, difficult to follow forays into alternate realities. On \"WIZARD AND GLASS\" The best of this series. ON \"WOLVES OF THE CALLA\" Beginning of the slow degradation of this concept series into mish-mosh. On \"SONG OF SUZANNA\" And now we begin to wonder . . . What's going on here? On \"THE DARK TOWER\" Wonder no more . . . The grand finale of King's magnum opus fizzles with out a whimper or bang. ...more I can't describe how happy certain events in this one has made me. It's SO good. I never expected early on that it'd go in this direction, and I love it. This literally could've only ever been written by Stephen King, and within the exact time frame that he wrote it in. There are still so many ways he could take this, and I can't wait to see how it all plays out in the next one. If you've just begun this series, or are thinking about starting it - DO IT AND KEEP GOING! Looking back, the earlier I can't describe how happy certain events in this one has made me. It's SO good. I never expected early on that it'd go in this direction, and I love it. This literally could've only ever been written by Stephen King, and within the exact time frame that he wrote it in. There are still so many ways he could take this, and I can't wait to see how it all plays out in the next one. If you've just begun this series, or are thinking about starting it - DO IT AND KEEP GOING! Looking back, the earlier books are even better because of what I know now, what's happening now. I love everything about this. ...more Re-read September 2016 In Song of Susannah , The Dark Tower goes meta. King suddenly puts himself in the story and becomes a character that plays a major part in the Ka-tet's journey. As for the main plot, not much is happening. It was like, for the number of pages, the story could have moved a bit more. What I personally felt was the major point of this installment, was King's involvement. By using himself in the story, King not only takes his work to a whole other level writing-wise, but he also Re-read September 2016 In Song of Susannah , The Dark Tower goes meta. King suddenly puts himself in the story and becomes a character that plays a major part in the Ka-tet's journey. As for the main plot, not much is happening. It was like, for the number of pages, the story could have moved a bit more. What I personally felt was the major point of this installment, was King's involvement. By using himself in the story, King not only takes his work to a whole other level writing-wise, but he also makes a commentary on how stories are written. I think it's common among all kinds of artists that a story, a song, a painting, a poem, feels like it's actually there before one puts it to paper. Like it's waiting for the right medium to bring it to the light of day. So, what King actually did there, was state that a story is superior to the one who tells it and bring the Tower's parallel universes theory to a more literal level. I can see why so many people found this egotistic, and they may be right, but I also found it genius. I think that art should be pure even when risking to be deemed pretentious or pompous. So this is the only reason it gets 4 stars from me. Enough words, though. However good or bad the sixth installment was, what follows is The End which transcends all expectations and gives the whole series a whole different essence. Off to The Dark Tower ! ...more Juggling between 3.5 or 4 since there have been so many deux ex machina shit going on lately. Despite it all though, I was entertained. Compared to other Dark Tower books, the pace of this one is practically blistering. And yet it's also true that this is basically 500+ pages (or 12+ hours, if you prefer) of exposition for the final book. There are very few writers that can do that much exposition, end with little resolved, and yet leave me basically satisfied, except for a need to go on. Not quite sure how King managed that. I also want to talk about what I think will probably be the single greatest sticking point for most reade Compared to other Dark Tower books, the pace of this one is practically blistering. And yet it's also true that this is basically 500+ pages (or 12+ hours, if you prefer) of exposition for the final book. There are very few writers that can do that much exposition, end with little resolved, and yet leave me basically satisfied, except for a need to go on. Not quite sure how King managed that. I also want to talk about what I think will probably be the single greatest sticking point for most readers: (view spoiler) [King himself shows up as a character, and an important one. I was prepared for this to be over the top, masturbatory, even. Instead, King has the self awareness to write himself as a tool of Ka, and not necessarily the brightest or most self aware one. I sort of vaguely knew this was coming in the series, and I wasn't exactly looking forward to it. Instead, it became one of the most interesting concepts in the book, making Ka creation and creativity in opposition to the Crimson King's destruction. I guess I should have trusted King a little more. (hide spoiler) ] No, it isn't the best Dark Tower book, but it is a good one, and the brisk pace suits it. ...more Para muchos el peor de la saga . A m\u00ed me gust\u00f3 mucho y no me parece el peor. Es, para m\u00ed, uno de los tomos m\u00e1s importantes de la serie. En este se revelan muchas cosas que esclarecen un poco el misterio que gira en torno a la Torre Oscura y todo se va preparando para su final. Does Stephen King writing himself into the penultimate episode of The Dark Tower make it more or less epic? Mid-way through Roland and Eddie find themselves in Stephen King\u2019s 1977 home where they chat with the author himself. But where does this take us? When Martin Amis does it, it can seem like the height of solipsism, an author\u2019s attempt to wank slowly and grandly in public. And yet, the substance of this visit, and King\u2019s appearance, brings together all of King\u2019s other books \u2013 to a lesser or Does Stephen King writing himself into the penultimate episode of The Dark Tower make it more or less epic? Mid-way through Roland and Eddie find themselves in Stephen King\u2019s 1977 home where they chat with the author himself. But where does this take us? When Martin Amis does it, it can seem like the height of solipsism, an author\u2019s attempt to wank slowly and grandly in public. And yet, the substance of this visit, and King\u2019s appearance, brings together all of King\u2019s other books \u2013 to a lesser or greater degree \u2013 under The Dark Tower banner. Yes, it could be an exercise in extreme naval gazing, Stephen King removing the fluff with pliers and delicately combing the surrounding stomach hair, but on the other hand it turns The Dark Tower from a three thousand page novel into a twenty thousand plus page novel. Okay, we\u2019ve already seen big allusions to \u2018The Stand\u2019 and \u2018Salem\u2019s Lot\u2019 (and there are probably lots of other more subtle references I\u2019ve missed, my memory is not what it was) but this book is overtly stating the fact that everything Stephen King has ever written (and presumably will ever write) is about this quest for The Dark Tower. \u2018The Song of Susannah\u2019 is the most difficult book in this series to review. More than any other it feels like a bridging novel, a shifting pieces into place novel, a journey without a clear destination novel. Reviewing it is a little like switching off \u2018Alien\u2019 when John Hurt\u2019s belly explodes and then wandering away to write about the whole. Even more so than \u2018The Waste Lands\u2019, which at least did get through a hell of a lot of stuff before it abandoned us with Blaine the Mono, this is a book all geared towards an ending which isn\u2019t there \u2013 an ending which won\u2019t arrive until the next episode. So the only thing we have to look at was the journey, and how thrilling and gripping it was. Disjointed and disappointing would be the best ways to describe it. Forces beyond their control split up the ka-tet as they head once again to New York City (the 1977 and 1999 versions). Unfortunately this splitting up is not used to ramp up the tension across the novel, but instead turns out lumpy and forced together. For a start Eddie and Roland\u2019s segment would seem to play for a lot less stakes than the rest of the ka-tet. They find themselves in 1977 dealing with antiquarian book seller, Calvin Tower, in an attempt to save the blessed rose of New York which is one of the key symbols of The Dark Tower. Now this rose, and the vacant lot in which it sits, has been a big symbol for a number of books \u2013 but it still just feels like a symbol. The other part of the ka-tet is trying to save one of their own, Susannah \u2013 a human being. And no matter how well you describe this rose, no matter how beautiful and important you make it sound, human beings are clearly going to find greater empathy with other people rather than flowers. It\u2019s Susannah who is the star of the piece, the character around whom it all spins. Roland and Eddie are elsewhere and their plot is actually over half-way through; while Jake and Callahan arrive later with the attempt to save her. So it\u2019s Susannah who carries the book\u2019s weight. And this is problematic, as I find her the least well defined of the ka-tet. No doubt this is due to the extreme schizophrenia the character suffers. There isn\u2019t one character in Susannah, generally there is at least two and in this book three. It almost feels as if King decided that the female lead in his great fantasy series could do virtually anything, and then proceeded to get her to do exactly that. As such the character of Susannah herself suffers, as sometimes she has Detta barging her out of the way and now there is Mia jostling for space as well. To keep the drama going, King lets her have lots of arguments with herself, but after awhile these become tiresome and ever so slightly ridiculous. He tries his best to sell the notion of her disappearing to various fantasy places to debate with herself, but there\u2019s only so much drama a writer can squeeze out of a woman talking to herself no matter what the stakes. After about the third such argument it all feels a bit like \u2013 well \u2013 extreme naval gazing. (King does at least apologise for the \u201cridiculous Butterfly McQueen\u2019 accent in which Detta speaks. Clearly the charges of racism bothered this liberal white writer. However he then goes to ruin it by including over the top, stereotypical Japanese tourists, which feel like a sudden transportation to a now justly forgotten 1940\u2019s Warner Brothers propaganda cartoon). In the end, well that\u2019s the thing we don\u2019t really have an end. The danger is increased with a particularly gruesome scene in which King once again stretches his horror writing muscles. But we have no resolution, no pay-off. In \u2018The Waste Lands\u2019 the journey was luxuriated in, it was entertaining while it happened. In \u2018The Song of Susannah\u2019, the journey doesn\u2019t flow in the same way, with the narrative voice not really caring, just keeping an eye on the distant ending. But without any knowledge of what that ending is, it\u2019s difficult to see this volume as anything other than insubstantial. We shall see how this all winds up. My money is on Roland and Walter hugging and letting bygones be bygones, before working together to turn the dark tower into condos. ...more The journal entries at the end of the book made the rest of it worthwhile! Definitely not my favorite in the series. I didn't understand the plot of the author putting himself in the story at first, but it did grow on me. I am excited to finish the series with the final book! 4.5 TO 5.0 stars. The Dark Tower series is one of the best fantasy series of ALL TIME. Even if you don't like Stephen King, I think you will love this series. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!! Nominee: Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel (2005) \"Suzanina pesma\" je definitivno deo serijala koji je prevazi\u0161ao moja o\u010dekivanja i prijatno me je iznenadio, skoro pa odu\u0161evio. Ujedno, ovo je knjiga koju sam pro\u010ditala sa najvi\u0161e pa\u017enje i koja mi je bila neobi\u010dno \u010ditljiva. Neobi\u010dno, zato \u0161to mi u nemalom broju slu\u010dajeva Kingove knjige te\u0161ko padnu. Od \"Pustara\" naovamo (da pribele\u017eim - \"Pustih zemalja\") pratili smo ka-tet (view spoiler) [ koji biva u\u010dvr\u0161\u0107en D\u017eejkovim povratkom i njegovim sprijateljavanjem sa bamburom Ojem (hide spoiler) ] , spoznavaj \"Suzanina pesma\" je definitivno deo serijala koji je prevazi\u0161ao moja o\u010dekivanja i prijatno me je iznenadio, skoro pa odu\u0161evio. Ujedno, ovo je knjiga koju sam pro\u010ditala sa najvi\u0161e pa\u017enje i koja mi je bila neobi\u010dno \u010ditljiva. Neobi\u010dno, zato \u0161to mi u nemalom broju slu\u010dajeva Kingove knjige te\u0161ko padnu. Od \"Pustara\" naovamo (da pribele\u017eim - \"Pustih zemalja\") pratili smo ka-tet (view spoiler) [ koji biva u\u010dvr\u0161\u0107en D\u017eejkovim povratkom i njegovim sprijateljavanjem sa bamburom Ojem (hide spoiler) ] , spoznavaju\u0107i Rolandovu pro\u0161lost. Tako\u0111e smo prisustvovali i juna\u0161tvu koje prili\u010di revolvera\u0161ima prilikom sukoba sa Vukovima Kale. Paralelno sa svim tim doga\u0111ajima uo\u010davamo i pratimo promenu koja se de\u0161ava Suzani Din, a koja je mogla ugroziti celu akciju u Kali. Njeno stanje kulminira po samom svr\u0161etku sukoba i Suzana nestaje (view spoiler) [ prolaze\u0107i kroz vrata sa Crnom trinaesticom pod mi\u0161kom (hide spoiler) ] . Suo\u010deni sa njenim nestankom, me\u0161tani \u010dine jedinu stvar koju su mogli - poma\u017eu revolvera\u0161ima da po poslednji put o\u017eive magiju vrata i sustignu Suzanu. \u010clanovi ka-teta jo\u0161 jednom bivaju postavljeni pred nove izazove. Name\u0107u se pitanja poput: kako koordinisati akciju koja u sebi ima dvadeset dve godine razmaka? Da li \u0107e zaista morati da biraju izme\u0111u Suzane i Mra\u010dne kule? Niz se nastavlja, a jedina osoba koja bi donekle mogla da rasvetli slu\u010daj je tvorac li\u010dno. Za\u0161to da ga ne posete kada ve\u0107 imaju priliku? Ovaj deo serijala ne samo da mi je bio zabavan ve\u0107 je umnogome razjasnio neo\u010dekivano i bacio svetlo na neka dela koja su proistekla iz pera Stivena Kinga, poput It . Svi\u0111a mi se na\u010din na koji su poglavlja podeljena i \u0161to se svako zavr\u0161ava stihovima. Beskrajno sme\u0161an mi je bio sam kraj, napisan u formi dnevnika. Zabele\u0161ka pisca ka\u017ee da je ostalo samo jo\u0161 jedno skretanje i da smo skoro, pa tu. Jedva \u010dekam. ...more Being one of my favorites of the series, it\u2019s ironic since Susannah is my least favorite character. This is a type of lead-in book to the last one, the big bang finale we all feel is coming book. The book may not solve many riddles of the series but it\u2019s still exciting. All kinds of unsettling things go down, and the story is just fascinating urgency builds and stakes heat up. There are so many mixed reactions on King inserting himself (or a version of himself anyway) into his books. Some call it Being one of my favorites of the series, it\u2019s ironic since Susannah is my least favorite character. This is a type of lead-in book to the last one, the big bang finale we all feel is coming book. The book may not solve many riddles of the series but it\u2019s still exciting. All kinds of unsettling things go down, and the story is just fascinating urgency builds and stakes heat up. There are so many mixed reactions on King inserting himself (or a version of himself anyway) into his books. Some call it egotistical, some call it cheap. I call it none of these things. It\u2019s an unusual gesture, twisted, and while the idea holds flaws, I like it. The whole series remains meshed with the Kingverse; I still get chills remembering he saw IT staring back at him. It took such a long chunk of his life to write this series, the story swimming around in his head years in between putting it down, inventing legend. It also strikes me that King is writing a younger version of himself when he was an addict to more than writing and that they, in the book, appear to him during these delusional years. For much of the book, the Ka-tet is divided into twos of a sort. As always Roland is an amazing hero to journey with. Eddie\u2019s humor is welcome to break up the breakneck speed. Jake is one of the best again, it\u2019s different with him because the reader has been able to watch him grow up and mature not only as a gunslinger but as a boy growing closer to becoming a man. Susannah is always battling some inner struggle \u2013 it makes sense she is the one to battle an inner demon. Father Callahan makes a return appearance. It\u2019s definitely a book that\u2019s leading to the final one. The stakes are higher, the bar is raised, tension is amped. Onward, forward, whatever, to the finish line. Most Dark Tower fans will likely enjoy Song of Susannah. ...more I am leaving my rating at five stars because I really believe his writing deserves it. Having said that, this is my least favorite of the series. I used to think The Gunslinger was the hardest to love. Maybe it's easier now because I've read it a few times, already love Roland, and know what the hell is up. THIS one though...I just don't like the Ka-tet separated after we've bled with them and gone through so much to get them together. I don't want to get spoiler-ish, but each page (or in this ca I am leaving my rating at five stars because I really believe his writing deserves it. Having said that, this is my least favorite of the series. I used to think The Gunslinger was the hardest to love. Maybe it's easier now because I've read it a few times, already love Roland, and know what the hell is up. THIS one though...I just don't like the Ka-tet separated after we've bled with them and gone through so much to get them together. I don't want to get spoiler-ish, but each page (or in this case disc) I was hoping for reunion, and having read before, knew I wasn't going to get it. This entire novel inspired a sense of longing in me that was not quenched. Thank God I have the final installment at hand. I know I am in for heartbreak, but I can always start again. Then again... ...more Not my favorite in the series but not nearly as bad as I'd been lead to believe. And still better than The Gunslinger, book 1. More review to come ... Stephen King, Song of Susannah (Donald M. Grant, 2004) It's quite ironic that, less than a year after announcing his impending retirement, Mr. King has graced us with one of the best pieces of writing he's put out in years (excepting \"Blind Willie,\" one of the strongest stories of his career). After a string of books ranging from the mediocre (From a Buick 8, Wolves of the Calla) to the out-and-out bad (Dreamcatcher), during which, one can assume, King decided to hang up his hat, we get Song of S Stephen King, Song of Susannah (Donald M. Grant, 2004) It's quite ironic that, less than a year after announcing his impending retirement, Mr. King has graced us with one of the best pieces of writing he's put out in years (excepting \"Blind Willie,\" one of the strongest stories of his career). After a string of books ranging from the mediocre (From a Buick 8, Wolves of the Calla) to the out-and-out bad (Dreamcatcher), during which, one can assume, King decided to hang up his hat, we get Song of Susannah. The sixth book in the Dark Tower series starts just after the end of Wolves of the Calla (so much so that the last sentence in Wolves of the Calla and the first sentence in Song of Susannah could have been part of the same chapter in the same book), and takes place over the next... couple of days? Time's getting weirder in the spaces between Mid-World and Earth. Roland's decline into age-related illness is speeding up, making the quest for the Tower more urgent. Callahan is now part of the crew. So's Mia, albeit in a different capacity. (One wonders, idly, why Roland didn't take Rosa with him, if he took Callahan.) And, in his own odd way, Stephen King himself, which became obvious about fifty pages from the end of Wolves of the Calla. That last bit sounds cheesy, doesn't it? And it's hard to tell whether it is or not, really, until the final few pages of Song of Susannah. But to his credit, King paints himself as quite the dysfunctional deity, which was by turns amusing and horrifying (given the autobiographical quality of the scenes, which are mostly in-more-detail pieces of the self-abusive parts of hie life he detailed in On Writing). My final thought on it was that it probably could have been done better, but certainly could have been done worse (it blew Jonathan Safran Foer's overhyped and barely readable Everything Is Illuminated out of the water). So the question is, why's Song of Susannah so much better than the rest of his recent books? It's not necessarily because he's writing in a different style (he had the outline in place when he wrote Wolves of the Calla, too), or because he's changed anything about the way he portrays characters and events. In fact, the only real change I can discern in Song of Susannah is that it's... shorter. Yep. King, who has been working without an editor who does more than token work since the complete and uncut version of The Stand sold eighty-seven trillion copies (and rightly; the editor who worked on the original version of the novel hopefully is picking cigarette butts out of a gutter now), takes a special moment to go out of his way to thank the person who's edited the last few Dark Tower books. Whoever she is, she's gotten it into gear and really started whipping King's writing into shape. Song of Susannah is better-paced, more tense, a lot more visual without losing that special King ability to draw characters and scenes in the space of a few lines, and, well, just overall better. He also adds in a new (to him, anyway) dimension here, with both Roland and Eddie sticking around Earth long enough for them to really smack into the wall of culture shock (usually, they've been making quick trips up till now for one specific thing, while this time they keep getting derailed in almost Luis Bunuel fashion), and King handles it with a gentle wit that's been missing from his novels for years. The abbreviated scope of this novel, combined with the brilliance of \"Blind Willie\" from a couple of years ago, gives me some small hope that instead of retiring, King will focus on what got him noticed in the first place, the punch-to-the-gut short stories that showed King both being effective and working with an economy of words he's completely neglected for twenty years or thereabouts. But one way or the other, this left me salivating for the seventh Dark Tower book, and what might or might not come after. **** ...more This is a hard book for me to review. I just finished it for the fourth time, and I really cannot tell you what it's about. Unlike every other novel in the Dark Tower saga, Song of Susannah doesn't stand on its own. It's a continuation of Wolves of the Calla, and by the story's end no plot threads are finished \u2014 everything is left hanging for the finale. It's a fast-paced tale, and the writing itself is good, but it simply doesn't stand on its own merit. The problem is nothing really happens here This is a hard book for me to review. I just finished it for the fourth time, and I really cannot tell you what it's about. Unlike every other novel in the Dark Tower saga, Song of Susannah doesn't stand on its own. It's a continuation of Wolves of the Calla, and by the story's end no plot threads are finished \u2014 everything is left hanging for the finale. It's a fast-paced tale, and the writing itself is good, but it simply doesn't stand on its own merit. The problem is nothing really happens here. There is no major character development. The reader is not introduced to any new concepts or ideas or characters. It just feels incomplete, or like King wrote the book on autopilot. There is a reason it took me over a week to finish what should've been the quickest read in the DT cycle \u2014 this book is a bit of a chore. That being said, this book is not bad. The Ka-tet is as lovable and fun to read about as ever, but I do not like the fact that they are split up throughout the entirety of this novel and don't come together until book seven. King expands on the meta concepts introduced in Wolves of the Calla in interesting ways, though the developments can be a bit much to handle. I personally love King's insertion of himself here \u2014 I think it's the most thrilling part of this particular book \u2014 but I know some fans are repelled by it. That's cool. Different strokes, and all that. I'm keeping this review short because, honestly, I'm struggling with finding things to say about Song of Susannah. It's not bad, but it's not great. It's an easy read, but it does nothing but set the stage for The Dark Tower. It has identity issues, and it's a little messy. I was going to give it three stars, but I'll be generous and give it three and a half. I think it works as the penultimate story in this series, but I certainly don't love it. ...more Sweet baby Tom Cruise this book is a chore. If it wasn't for the fact that it's been ten years since I first read it, I probably would have skipped this one. This is probably the most incomplete book in the series. We're all over the damn place, and there is no discernible plot other than \"Fill in as many holes as possible, and be meta as fuck!\" With this volume, I felt as if WOLVES OF THE CALLA, SONG OF SUSANNAH, and THE DARK TOWER were conceived as one final 2,500 page book. Sure, WOLVES stands Sweet baby Tom Cruise this book is a chore. If it wasn't for the fact that it's been ten years since I first read it, I probably would have skipped this one. This is probably the most incomplete book in the series. We're all over the damn place, and there is no discernible plot other than \"Fill in as many holes as possible, and be meta as fuck!\" With this volume, I felt as if WOLVES OF THE CALLA, SONG OF SUSANNAH, and THE DARK TOWER were conceived as one final 2,500 page book. Sure, WOLVES standsalone... kind of. In the way THE WASTE LANDS stands alone, I suppose. We have a cliffhanger in both books, is what I'm getting at. The problem with SONG is nothing truly happens. 544 pages of nothing but reasons and puzzles that will pay off in the final volume. It's an easy read, don't get me wrong, but it's boring. Like having your teeth pulled while you're asleep. Sure, there's a gun battle, but it's the most lackluster one of the entire series. Yeah, the ending's visuals are pretty disturbing and confusing in a JACOB'S LADDER kinda way, but that's all this book has going for it, and probably is the only reason I give this volume three stars and not something lower. I almost wish King would have released SONG and TOWER as one volume. It would have been his longest published book to date, but at least SONG wouldn't have felt so bloody disjointed. In summation: This is the only volume that hasn't changed in my mind from one read to the other. It's still plodding, still sleep-inducing, and lacks any real story. Still, WIZARD AND GLASS is garbage by comparison, and that one had a plot. ...more After getting through the 900+ pages of the previous book in the Dark Tower series, I flew through Song of Susannah within a matter of days. It was a quick read in comparison and I liked how the chapters were divided between the telling of each ka-tet member's present story. Generally speaking, I found the story consistent and staying within the realm of the entire Tower saga. However, King began to lose me once Roland and Eddie meet their supposed creator, Stephen King, himself. This is when th After getting through the 900+ pages of the previous book in the Dark Tower series, I flew through Song of Susannah within a matter of days. It was a quick read in comparison and I liked how the chapters were divided between the telling of each ka-tet member's present story. Generally speaking, I found the story consistent and staying within the realm of the entire Tower saga. However, King began to lose me once Roland and Eddie meet their supposed creator, Stephen King, himself. This is when the story begins to turn a little too existential for my liking. I enjoy the adventurous, gunslinger and group-brought-together-by-ka/destiny to fight and overcome something greater than themselves plot. I didn't find it necessary to go down the road to King's house in Maine and have literal character to writer discussions. I like my fiction to remain fiction. But we'll see where the last book goes... ...more I stretched back and I hiccupped And looked back on my busy day Eleven hours in the Tin Pan God, there's got to be another way God, there's got to be another way first comes Denial and Isolation.this can't be happening then Anger. then Bargaining.it isn't that bad i will just forget about it then Depression. all is lost ,5 excruciating books with nothing in return then comes the rage how dare he ,how fucking dare he to break the fourth fucking wall Who Are You ? My least favorite of the Dark Tower books, but it's still essential. It does have some great parts, it just doesn't have the complete feeling that the other books in the series do. It's more a bridge between DT5 and DT7.", "Title": "Song of Susannah"},
