{"Comments": "The Nac Mac Feegles hae got me tawkin' lae 'em. Crivens! It's a wee bittie story o' hags right enough, the big wee hag o' the hills bein' the verra center o' it all, but it may gi' ye a bad case o' the thinkin'.<---F> I dinna like tae stop readin'</---F>. (To the the Bigjobs: Discworld just keeps getting better and better. Keep a sharp eye out and you will see many references to other stories hidden in the telling.) This is technically a young adult book (and yes,<---M> I do read grown-up books</---M>, I just went on a bit of a YA tear after my Powell\u2019s extravaganza), but the only reason for so labeling it is that the main character is a teenager. It is hard to explain how great this book is if you haven\u2019t read any Pratchett, but, then again, why haven\u2019t you read any Pratchett? His books about the Discworld started out a pun-filled parodies of fantasy novels, and have evolved into satires on our modern world that usuall This is technically a young adult book (and yes, I do read grown-up books, I just went on a bit of a YA tear after my Powell\u2019s extravaganza), but the only reason for so labeling it is that the main character is a teenager. It is hard to explain how great this book is if you haven\u2019t read any Pratchett, but, then again, why haven\u2019t you read any Pratchett? His books about the Discworld started out a pun-filled parodies of fantasy novels, and have evolved into satires on our modern world that usually leave me with more profound thinking to do afterward that most \u201cserious fiction.\u201d <+++>A Hat Full of Sky</+++> is a sequel to The Wee Free Men and is about Tiffany Aching\u2019s apprenticeship as a witch, far from her home on the chalk country. It\u2019s also about being true to yourself, whoever you are and accepting the good of yourself with the bad, and trusting your instincts. But it isn\u2019t hokey, or preachy, just true. And funny as hell \u2013 I will never stop laughing at the Wee Free Men. So, go out and read some Pratchett, by gum! Start with the Wee Free Men, even if they are \u201ckids books\u201d, and then bust out the rest of the Discworld. You won\u2019t regret it. ...more Dedicated to the memory of Sir <---A>Terry Pratchett</---A>, who passed away soon after I started reading the book. I have made, over the past twenty years, many friends among the inhabitants of the wacky disc-shaped world sailing through space on the backs of four elephants, carried in their turn by a giant turtle. Starting with Rincewind, then with Sam Vimes and his Ankh-Morpork guards, Lord Vetinari, the wizards of the Unseen University, the banana loving Librarian, the sentient multi-legged Luggage, Moist Dedicated to the memory of Sir Terry Pratchett, who passed away soon after I started reading the book. I have made, over the past twenty years, many friends among the inhabitants of the wacky disc-shaped world sailing through space on the backs of four elephants, carried in their turn by a giant turtle. Starting with Rincewind, then with Sam Vimes and his Ankh-Morpork guards, Lord Vetinari, the wizards of the Unseen University, the banana loving Librarian, the sentient multi-legged Luggage, Moist von Lipwig ... I could go on and on, but what I wanted to say that, out of all of them, I believe Tiffany Aching is the one that I love and admire the most. Technically, the Tiffany books are Y.A., and have little connection with the rest of the series \u2013 mainly the presence of <---C>Granny Weatherwax</---C> as the chief witch on Discworld, not that witches have ranks or care much about authority. In her first outing, Tiffany Aching is too young to be a witch, but that didn\u2019t stopped her from doing what needs to be done and stopping the Queen of the Faeries from invading her beloved Chalk . With the help of the Pictsies, Tiffany demonstrated that the most important talent a witch needs is to keep her eyes open and use her common sense, just like her beloved Granny Aching used to do. In this second book, young Tiffany must leave the Chalk and be apprenticed to a more experienced witch who can show her how to develop and control her native talents, beyond making cheese \u2013 a sort of going to Hogwarts, but in a private tutoring form. Her destination is described as: \u201cMiss Level, Cottage in the Woods Near the Dead Oak Tree in Lost Man\u2019s Lane, High Overhang, If Out Leave Letters in Old Boot by Door\u201d To complicate matters, Tiffany is unknowingly chased by a space entity ( \u2018a hiver\u2019) that homes in on users of magic like a guided missile , trying to lodge into their brains and subvert their will. Just when she needs their help most, she must leave the Pictsies back in the Chalk, under the supervision of their new hive queen. The Nac Mac Feegle (also called Pictsies, The Wee Free Men, The Little Men, and \u201cPerson or Persons Unknown, Believed to be Armed\u201d) : they are the most dangerous of the fairy races, particularly when drunk. They love drinking, fighting, and stealing, and will in fact steal anything that is not nailed down. If it is nailed down, they will steal the nails as well. [...] The average Feegle man (Feegle women are rare \u2013 see later) is about six inches high, red haired, his skin turned blue with tattoos and the dye called woad, and, since you\u2019re this close, he\u2019s probably about to hit you. These little blue scoundrels were responsible for most of the fun I\u2019ve had with the first Aching novel, so I hoped they will not be absent for long. Indeed, I don\u2019t think I reveal a major spoiler if I mention that Rob Anything, Slightly Sane Georgie, Daft Wullie, Awf\u2019ly Wee Billy and their \u2018pished\u2019 mates will soon follow Tiffany into her exile, up to their usual hilarious and boisterous antics. I wouldn\u2019t love the Tiffany books so much if they were only about having fun. They prove in fact that Young Adult books can and should deal with the most important issues of self and destiny as the so-called \u2018literary\u2019 fiction. The lessons Tiffany learns in High Overhang will serve her for a lifetime. Always face what you fear. Have just enough money, never too much, and some string. Even if it\u2019s not your fault, it\u2019s your responsibility. Witches deal with things. Never stand between two mirrors. Never cackle. Do what you must do. Never lie, but you don\u2019t always have to be honest. Never wish. Especially don\u2019t wish upon a star, which is astronomically stupid. Open your eyes, and then open your eyes again. I don\u2019t intend to go into details about Tiffany\u2019s adventures in the company of her tutor, Miss Level, or about the rivalries with the other young witches in training. Most of them can be boiled down to the choice the young girl has to make between being true to her inner core of values and the wish to conform, to be popular and appreciated. Even the part of the chasing \u2018hiver\u2019 is used to reveal the fact that the demons we are often fighting are of our own making, uncomfortable truths about ourselves that we pretend we know nothing about, like streaks of meanness and selfishness and greed. My favorite passage in the book is rather long, but it is an important illustration of the offbeat definition Pratchett gives for superpowers and how they are best deployed. In answer to why Granny Weatherwax sent her to a rather dumpy and unimpressive \u2018research\u2019 witch for training, Tiffany must chew on this: Because she likes people. She cares about \u2018em. Even the stupid, mean, drooling ones, the mothers with the runny babies and no sense, the feckless and the silly and the fools who treat her like some kind of servant. Now that\u2019s what I call magic \u2013 seein\u2019 all that, dealin\u2019 with all that, and still goin\u2019 on. It\u2019s sitting up all night with some poor old man who\u2019s leavin\u2019 the world, taking away such pain as you can, comfortin\u2019 their terror, seein\u2019 them safely on their way ... and then cleanin\u2019 \u2018em up, layin\u2019 em out, making \u2018em neat for the funeral, and helpin\u2019 the weeping widow strip the bed and wash the sheets \u2013 which is, let me tell you, no errand for the fainthearted \u2013 and stayin\u2019 up the next night to watch over the coffin before the funeral, and then going home and sitting down for five minutes before some shouting angry man comes bangin\u2019on your door \u2018cuz his wife\u2019s havin\u2019 difficulty givin\u2019 birth to their first child and the midwife\u2019s at her wits\u2019 end and then getting up and fetching your bag and going out again ... We all do that, in our own way, and she does it better\u2019n me, if I was to put my hand on my heart. That is the root and heart and soul and center of witchcraft, that is. The soul and center! It may sounds preachy here, out of context, but I believe the novel argues in a fun and moving way the case for treating people with kindness and for using your common sense in dealing with problems. The title becomes explicit later in the novel, as Tiffany has to choose what kind of pointy hat she will use now that she has been acknowledged by her brethren: a fashionable star-spangled one from the best shop in the village? Or Granny Weatherwax\u2019s old, battered hat that she won in a prestige competition? or better yet, one that she will fashion herself from everything that is valuable and close to her heart? Until I get to read the next Tiffany Aching book, I will say goodbye to her, and sadly to her creator Sir Terry Pratchett, with one last quote that will serve well as a metaphor for why we are reading books, and with my gratitude for the journeys of wonder they have had me embark upon: Why do you go away? So that you can come back. So that you can see the place you came from with new eyes and extra colors. And the people there see you differently, too. Coming back to where you started is not the same as never leaving. The words ran through Tiffany\u2019s mind as she watched the sheep, and she found joy \u2013 at the new lambs, at life, at everything. Joy is to fun what the deep seea is to a puddle. It\u2019s a feeling inside that can hardly be contained. I\u2019ve come back! she announced to the hills. Better than I went! ...more Freakin' Terry Pratchett rules. What in the world have i been doing with all my life? I have so many books to read! However i sit inspired by the bravery of Rob Anybody and, therefore, i shall fling myself head first with no helmet...one fearsome book at a time. A Hatful of Sky is a follow up to The Wee Free Men. It picks up just where the other left off and continues Terry's incredibly witty fantasy which clearly stand a bar above other fanatsy. For a children\u2019s book it has more complexity than I would've expected. I remember after reading Tiffany Aching\u2019s first book I thought it was just so strange and didn't get what was going on at the end. The climax in this one had a similar sort of the thing going but I understood it better this time around. Maybe it\u2019s because I'm older or that Pratchett explained it easier this time, I don't know. So here we have Tiffany in the beginning of her witch training and things are not going the way she For a children\u2019s book it has more complexity than I would've expected. I remember after reading Tiffany Aching\u2019s first book I thought it was just so strange and didn't get what was going on at the end. The climax in this one had a similar sort of the thing going but I understood it better this time around. Maybe it\u2019s because I'm older or that Pratchett explained it easier this time, I don't know. So here we have Tiffany in the beginning of her witch training and things are not going the way she thought. Things get worse since a Hiver (which is deadly and can\u2019t be killed) seems to be after her, though she doesn't know it. Tiffany is a great character. Her point of view is straight forward but in a unique way. The reader is not only in Tiffany's head so if Tiffany misses something or is in denial we have the Wee Free Men to make there blunt though sometimes strange observations. The Wee Free Men have to help Tiffany which I\u2019m glad about. I was worried they wouldn\u2019t be a big part in this story since Tiffany was no longer living in the chalk. But we do see them later on and we learn more of their traditions and their beliefs. The Wee Free Men are so funny and bring so much to the story because of it. The whole trying to pass as a person had me laughing and rereading passages. Definitely worth a try if you into untraditional children fantasy, but then if you are you probably already know about Terry Pratchett. ...more Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest , I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I\u2019ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my LOCUS Y-A list. I think I\u2019ll always have a soft-spot for imaginative young-adult speculative fiction and as the good people at Locus did such a grand job with picking their Sci-Fi winners, I\u2019ll trust them to single out some special y-a books too. I've never t Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest , I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I\u2019ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my LOCUS Y-A list. I think I\u2019ll always have a soft-spot for imaginative young-adult speculative fiction and as the good people at Locus did such a grand job with picking their Sci-Fi winners, I\u2019ll trust them to single out some special y-a books too. I've never tried to write a review on my phone before, but my darling wife has just reinstalled Warcraft for the first time since Fin was born and has claimed the PC for the foreseeable future, so I guess I'd better practice. (iPhone autocorrect keeps trying to rename my son Gin. This tickles me.) This is book two in the Tiffany Aching sequence. Isn't sequence the perfect word? Discworld is a series of books, but its weaved of many smaller series within that (witches, guards, Death, Rincewind, etc) - and aside from \"series within the bigger series\", I've never known the right way to describe them. But the back of this book describes it as book two in the Tiffany Aching sequence and that's the perfect word. It filled a little void in my vocabulary. So - I think of <+++>A Hat Full of Sky</+++> as 'the one with the Hiver'. The Hiver is an invisible, magic beastie that possesses people and send them bonkers. Tiffany accidentally lets it into her head and has to watch as a helpless passenger as it takes her body on a rampage (which is a lot of fun - read the scene where she turns a shop assistant into a frog and a 'balloon'!) Then Tiffany has to battle the beastie out of her bonce, with a little assistance from the legendary Granny Weatherwax. The big symbolic climax with the horse carving breaking free from the chalk was... immense! I was proper choked-up. I'm going to borrow this quote from Nick Whyte's review : \"'AAaargwannawannaaaagongongonaargggaaaaBLOON!' which is the traditional sound of a very small child learning that with balloons, as with life itself, it is important to know when not to let go of the string. The whole point of balloons is to teach small children this.\" It's that \"as with life itself\" that really makes it memorable. And also this one from Arminzerella : \"Why do you go away? So that you can come back. So that you can see the place you came from with new eyes and extra colors. And the people there see you differently, too. Coming back to where you started is not the same as never leaving.\" I've never met a Pratchett story I didn't like and A Hat Full of Sky maintains that fine record. I think the Tiffany books lack a little of the depth and/or whimsy that my very favourite Discworld books have, but they're also signficantly better than the weaker Discworld books. Overall they are excellent YA books that I'm very happy to highly recommend. After this I read: Ship Breaker ...more I can not seem to convince anyone to try Discworld. Damndest thing, I would think that his great stories, great insight, and amazing humor would be an easy sell, but I can't convince most readers I know to so much as read the first page in my copy of \"The Colour of Magic,\" even if they're voracious fantasy readers. Maybe it's the fact that I use the words \"fantasy\" and \"funny\" in the same sentence. Most fantasy writers are the most humorless artists imaginable, so it seems like the dissonance is t I can not seem to convince anyone to try Discworld. Damndest thing, I would think that his great stories, great insight, and amazing humor would be an easy sell, but I can't convince most readers I know to so much as read the first page in my copy of \"The Colour of Magic,\" even if they're voracious fantasy readers. Maybe it's the fact that I use the words \"fantasy\" and \"funny\" in the same sentence. Most fantasy writers are the most humorless artists imaginable, so it seems like the dissonance is too strong for most people to even hear what I'm saying. \"A Hat Full of Sky\" is Pratchett's second Tiffany Aching book and his third young adult novel. At this point I can barely determine how this series is different from other books in the Discworld series other than the fact that it's protagonist is herself a young adult. Most young adults who enjoy this book would probably like the rest of the series since Discworld is smarter and vastly less appalling than most YA fiction. All of the elements from the last book are present here. Little blue brownie creatures called the Nac Mac Feegles who belligerently defend Tiffany, a new magical threat to be dealt with, and Pratchett's observations about the way witches think. The key additions are other young witches Tiffany has to deal with and Granny Weatherwax. The other witches work quite well as a foil, because you can't very well discuss a young girl without discussing what crap teenagers are to each other. It's just life, and he handles it well. In the second half of the book Weatherwax becomes a central figure. What always amuses me is that different Discworld books portray the same character differently. In the witch series Weatherwax is a main character and often portrayed as cantankerous and difficult, whereas in the Aching books she's viewed basically as a god among witches. It's a fun touch for the regular readers, and she's an interesting character to play off the quietly logical Tiffany. Pratchett is getting very good in his more mystical books and making the climax less trippy and dream logic stuffed. The pacing was top-notch, and the book flowed well as a whole. If I haven't made this abundantly clear, you should be reading this series. Right now. DO IT! ...more I was going to say, this isn't what I should have been reading - I seem to have found myself with a to-do list as long as my arm at the moment - but it's exactly what I needed. In A Hat Full of Sky , Pratchett tackles growing up in the sense of taking responsibility for things, and understanding the difference between the things you want, and the things you actually do. As someone who has spent quite a lot of the last six weeks howling \"It must be so nice not to have to take the initiative/solve t I was going to say, this isn't what I should have been reading - I seem to have found myself with a to-do list as long as my arm at the moment - but it's exactly what I needed. In A Hat Full of Sky , Pratchett tackles growing up in the sense of taking responsibility for things, and understanding the difference between the things you want, and the things you actually do. As someone who has spent quite a lot of the last six weeks howling \"It must be so nice not to have to take the initiative/solve the problems/make the awkward phone calls!\" at various extremely patient bystanders, this was important to me. 4.5 stars, well-timed and much appreciated, so rounded up in recognition. ...more These are the best. 2010 August 17 2004 August 20 Well, Voyage of the Dawn Treader is out, and Terry Pratchett is in for the read aloud. As fond as I am of the former, I'm perfectly willing to cast it aside. Tiffany Aching is a marvelous character who thinks all the time. As does Pratchett. Unlike Lewis, Pratchett's world is rich and detailed and it works . The Nac Mac Feegle are delightful low-comedy anti-fairies and a good foil to the thoroughly mundane business of sheep-farming. As an aside, Pratchett has just descr 2010 August 17 2004 August 20 Well, Voyage of the Dawn Treader is out, and Terry Pratchett is in for the read aloud. As fond as I am of the former, I'm perfectly willing to cast it aside. Tiffany Aching is a marvelous character who thinks all the time. As does Pratchett. Unlike Lewis, Pratchett's world is rich and detailed and it works . The Nac Mac Feegle are delightful low-comedy anti-fairies and a good foil to the thoroughly mundane business of sheep-farming. As an aside, Pratchett has just described a giant horse carved into the chalk, and made several mentions of skylarks, all of which pleases the XTC fans in the house. *** 2014 August 7 Apparently I read this in August. When I read Good Omens last week I thought the authors hadn't gotten their eleven-year-olds quite right, that they were too young. Pratchett make eleven-year-old Tiffany feel just right. ...more Wee Free Men, while still entertaining, didn't catch me on reread quite like it did the first time through. A Hat Full of Sky on the other hand was pure magic and everything I remember it being. My favorite Aching book. When I found my first Tiffany Aching book (it was I shall wear Midnight and bless Terry's soul for finishing The Sheppard's Crown before he crossed the great black desert) I realized I had found a friend. There's something truly magical in the way Sir Pratchett uses words and even the smallest keen observation to make a notion so different than it was before, to make you realize something that you knew perhaps all along but hadn't seen it properly until you read these words and I think that's wh When I found my first Tiffany Aching book (it was I shall wear Midnight and bless Terry's soul for finishing The Sheppard's Crown before he crossed the great black desert) I realized I had found a friend. There's something truly magical in the way Sir Pratchett uses words and even the smallest keen observation to make a notion so different than it was before, to make you realize something that you knew perhaps all along but hadn't seen it properly until you read these words and I think that's what Granny Weatherwax would say is witchery. I think I shall be spending more time among the company of Witches this year round because even if I'm never to become one, a person can do with a bit more wisdom from witches. I'm gonna go do some more thinking now. ...more A Hat Full of Sky is the next Tiffany Aching book and is set a couple of years after the previous book and is off to 'study' magic with the Witches! :D In this case though study means more observations and enhancing her skills and performing something like a flying doctors service for the local population and at the same time doing battle with a non-entity called a Hiver who really really want to Tiffany and is bent on taking her over! :D The book also sees the return of many of the characters fr A Hat Full of Sky is the next Tiffany Aching book and is set a couple of years after the previous book and is off to 'study' magic with the Witches! :D In this case though study means more observations and enhancing her skills and performing something like a flying doctors service for the local population and at the same time doing battle with a non-entity called a Hiver who really really want to Tiffany and is bent on taking her over! :D The book also sees the return of many of the characters from the previous book as well as introducing a host of new ones such as Miss Level and Oswald and the not so crippled as first suspected Mr Weavall who is after the widow down the road! :D Not to mention the return of Miss Tick and Granny Weatherwax who steals much of the show in brilliant style! :D It is possible that Granny has met her match in Tiffany! :D The characterisation is what really drives the book with so many little observations and canny observations that will have you laughing out loud and in debating what is on the page all at the same time! :D The witty pace and way that things evolve and are revealed are brilliant done with the characters getting themselves into what would seem to be impossible situations though all time, like we find with Tiffany, reflecting and planning on their next actions which gives the book a very calculated feel to parts of which acts as the perfect balance for the heroic and quite possibly insane actions of the Nac Mac Feegle who are intent on trying to steal everything from spoons to nails as well as the entire show! :D Again the Nac Mac Feegles are used to show to some of the absurdities that we take for granted but at the same time they produce a lot of the jokes throughout the book Petulia's wanting confirmation that they are Fairies comes to mind! :D The plot with the Hiver also adds pace to the book with Tiffany trying along with her allies to overcome it which has consequences for many of their actions but at the same time Tiffany's solution to the issue is really innovative and really illustrates that a bit of brain work and compassion can go a long way! :D Tiffany's interactions as well with Granny Weatherwax also gives the book some emotional wallop as comparisons between her and her Granny Aching are implied! :D Throughout though we get to see Tiffany grow which is done in a great idea provoking way though the way she is oblivious to certain things will have your ribs hurting getting Weatherwax's hat and her reaction is one such example! :D A Hat Full of Sky is incisive, clever, quick witted, hilariously funny, an epic adventure and a real rollercoaster ride of character antic and frenetic events and will have you rolling in laughter and cheering Tiffany and her extended gang on! :D Crivens brilliant and highly recommend! :D ...more A Hat Full of Sky is entertaining and fun read about a young witch in training in the classic fairy style. In the first Tiffany Aching book she rescues her little brother from the Fairy Queen and becomes the kelda of the wee free men. The macfeagle are not exactly like brownies in that if you leave them milk they won't help you do your chores. If you leave them whiskey they'll try to help but it won't be the sort of help you'd want. She realises she's a witch despite all prior claims by witches A Hat Full of Sky is entertaining and fun read about a young witch in training in the classic fairy style. In the first Tiffany Aching book she rescues her little brother from the Fairy Queen and becomes the kelda of the wee free men. The macfeagle are not exactly like brownies in that if you leave them milk they won't help you do your chores. If you leave them whiskey they'll try to help but it won't be the sort of help you'd want. She realises she's a witch despite all prior claims by witches that the Chalk lands don't breed good witches on account they are too soft. This book is about her continuing education as a witch. (view spoiler) [Tiffany is sent to train with Miss Level who is not a twin but one person with two bodies. Miss Level's idea of witchcraft is helping the poor and elderly in her community which is a thankless task for a child unless your Pollyanna. Tiffany's own frustrations at being treated like a child come out when she's possessed by a Hiver. She reminded me a bit of Harry Potter in Order of the Phoenix since even after they've accomplished a huge feat they are still excluded from the adults. The hiver has Tiffany's memories and somewhat of her personality except for the moral part that would've prevented her from taking advantage of others or saying the rudest things we might think about a trying person. (hide spoiler) ] I loved the new stories we heard about her beloved Granny Aching. She was my favourite character in the Wee Free Men despite that she was dead. ...more The second Tiffany Aching book. spoilers ahead for the first one. Miss Tick has arranged for Tiffany to work for a witch, to learn the tricks of the trade. (Her parents are assured she's being hired for her skill in cheese making.) Roland, the Baron's son, is awkward and infatuated when she leaves. The Nac Mac Feegle have acquired a normal kelda, Jeannie, who married Rob Anybody and does not entirely approve of Tiffany. Hag of the hills or no, after all, she was their acting kelda and engaged to The second Tiffany Aching book. spoilers ahead for the first one. Miss Tick has arranged for Tiffany to work for a witch, to learn the tricks of the trade. (Her parents are assured she's being hired for her skill in cheese making.) Roland, the Baron's son, is awkward and infatuated when she leaves. The Nac Mac Feegle have acquired a normal kelda, Jeannie, who married Rob Anybody and does not entirely approve of Tiffany. Hag of the hills or no, after all, she was their acting kelda and engaged to Rob for a time. Miss Level, in fact, is one person with two bodies. Indeed, she traveled with the circus as twins with a mind-reading trick before she became a witch. And Tiffany meets the other young girls who are training to be witches -- awkward young Petulia, and the haughty Annagramma who's learning \"high magic\" from Mrs. Earwig (pronounced \"Ah-widge\"). The Witch Trials are coming -- think Sheepdog Trials, actually. And Tiffany has attracted the attention of a hiver. An unintelligent and very dangerous creature. The story unfolds involving a foolish wizard at the Unseen University; the pig trick done with sausage; Oswald, who likes to tidy things; Jeannie putting a geas on Rob Anybody, milking goats, a gift of a dictionary, dealing with Death, and much more. ...more Well, I'm giving this one 5, because if you like Nac Mac Feegles, to me, this is the funniest one of all! We listened to the excellent audiobook together, and it had us rolling for 15 minutes at a time with laughter. For those of you that don't know them, they are little Celtic Scottish pixie guys who wear kilts and defend the clan to the death! They are the fiercest warriors 5 or 6 inches could ever pack into a body! The other thing is that my family has been going through the book of Proverbs c Well, I'm giving this one 5, because if you like Nac Mac Feegles, to me, this is the funniest one of all! We listened to the excellent audiobook together, and it had us rolling for 15 minutes at a time with laughter. For those of you that don't know them, they are little Celtic Scottish pixie guys who wear kilts and defend the clan to the death! They are the fiercest warriors 5 or 6 inches could ever pack into a body! The other thing is that my family has been going through the book of Proverbs chapter 22 for devotions. The interesting thing is that Tiffany's adventures becoming a witch...(which in Pratchett's world basically amounts to a medicine woman who deals with difficult magical situations, but spends most of her time caring for the infirm, sheep, and dealing with stinky things that no one wants to deal with) ... Lead the older witchs to give her many proverbial sayings which actually have much wisdom to apply to our everyday lives. We'll stop the audio and talk about it and say, \"yup, that's really true.\" ...more Pratchett is the perfect remedy when you are in need of a smile. Whatever I am doing, however busy I am, I will always drop anything for one of his book. It was the case to for this one. I just couldn't drop it once I started. Good thing for me that it was on a Friday night, and that there wasn't too much consequence to going to sleep past 3:00 am because of it. Tiffany Aching is great, and she is an even greater witch in the making. The Nac Mac Feegles are just so Nac Mac Feegly. I read this book Pratchett is the perfect remedy when you are in need of a smile. Whatever I am doing, however busy I am, I will always drop anything for one of his book. It was the case to for this one. I just couldn't drop it once I started. Good thing for me that it was on a Friday night, and that there wasn't too much consequence to going to sleep past 3:00 am because of it. Tiffany Aching is great, and she is an even greater witch in the making. The Nac Mac Feegles are just so Nac Mac Feegly. I read this book just after another quite depressing one, and I went to bed with a big smile on my face. I still have it now. That's how good it is. ...more Amo esta saga, amo la poes\u00eda y el humor de Pratchett, amo a Tiffany. \u00bfQu\u00e9 m\u00e1s puedo decir? Si me demor\u00e9 en leerlo fue por problemas personales, pero es una lectura maravillosa que recomiendo a todos. Terry, sigues viviendo en nosotros. I almost gave this 5 stars but the Miss Level plot device bugged me. Even though he eliminated some of the gimmick it was still awkward and an unnecessary distraction. Tiffany is a little older, she's still making cheese and in touch with the Feegles. The new kelda Jeannie is suspicious and slightly jealous of the \"big wee hag\" but she comes to accept Tiffany's role and importance to the Feegle. Tiffany is eagerly awaiting her apprenticeship with a real witch, Miss Level and looks forward to lear I almost gave this 5 stars but the Miss Level plot device bugged me. Even though he eliminated some of the gimmick it was still awkward and an unnecessary distraction. Tiffany is a little older, she's still making cheese and in touch with the Feegles. The new kelda Jeannie is suspicious and slightly jealous of the \"big wee hag\" but she comes to accept Tiffany's role and importance to the Feegle. Tiffany is eagerly awaiting her apprenticeship with a real witch, Miss Level and looks forward to learning the secrets of becoming a real witch. She does learn, along with the help of Granny Weatherwax but the secrets turn out to be both a surprise and disappointment. She faces a new adversary, this one more fearsome than the Quin, er, Queen of the Fairies. She also makes new friends along the way and some familiar characters appear as well. As for the adversary she actually has 2, the hiver, a spirit-like being that consumes its victims from within and a bossy Queen Bee named Annagramma that rules over the other witch apprentices with a gleeful meanness. Tiffany is disappointed to learn Miss Level, while a compassionate soul, is not very powerful. She spends most of her time caring for the sick, the lonely and infirm with little thanks for her efforts. She also has two identical bodies but one mind which controls both. Tiffany is homesick, she misses the chalk, the sheep and even Roland, who gave her a silver necklace before she left. Being a witch is harder than she originally believed and the rewards are few, yet she understands this is her destiny, she has no choice. She is the hag of the hills, she tells the land of the chalk who it is and it tells her who she is, they are entwined. She manages to fight against the hiver while fighting herself at the same time and defeats it in an ingenious way. The Feegles are along, sent by kelda Jeannie, to protect her even if it is against an enemy that can't be kicked or head-butted. The Feegles are one of my favorite parts of the story, Rob Anybody and the new gonnagle Awf'ly Wee Billy my favorite of the Feegles. This being Pratchett there is a bit of satire. Stereotypes about magic and what real power is are the main targets. Annagramma insists that real witches must wear black, have jewelry with mystical symbols and surround themselves with such necessary items as crystal balls while they work on spells and incantations. Even the witch trials (not what you think) remind Tiffany of the sheepdog trials back home and they are very similar. Examples of power and its qualities extend from Tiffany's relationship with Roland, the Baron's son; the hiver, which feeds on power within living beings; the apprentices particularly Annagramma and the shy, awkward Petulia; the struggle within Jeannie in her roles as wife and kelda; the humble witchcraft of Miss Level versus the flashy trappings of Mrs. Earwig; even Black Meg the goat versus Tiffany down to the struggle within Tiffany herself. Money, primarily its power over humans is explored when the Feegles find an clever way to follow Tiffany to Miss Level's and is also used as a method of saving Tiffany's hide, with unexpected but happy consequences. There's also something about life, what living really means, death and the natural order of things. There is a compassion and understanding of the dignity found in common, everyday tasks and duties that I appreciate as well. It is relatively easy to point our what is wrong and poke fun at it but harder to reveal the courage and strength of doing the right thing especially when the right thing is not easy. ...more \u201cDo you know what it feels like to be aware of every star, every blade of grass? Yes. You do. You call it 'opening your eyes again.' But you do it for a moment. We have done it for eternity. No sleep, no rest, just endless... endless experience, endless awareness. Of everything. All the time. How we envy you, envy you! Lucky humans, who can close your minds to the endless deeps of space! You have this thing you call... boredom? That is the rarest talent in the universe! We heard a song \u2014 it went \u201cDo you know what it feels like to be aware of every star, every blade of grass? Yes. You do. You call it 'opening your eyes again.' But you do it for a moment. We have done it for eternity. No sleep, no rest, just endless... endless experience, endless awareness. Of everything. All the time. How we envy you, envy you! Lucky humans, who can close your minds to the endless deeps of space! You have this thing you call... boredom? That is the rarest talent in the universe! We heard a song \u2014 it went 'Twinkle twinkle little star....' What power! What wondrous power! You can take a billion trillion tons of flaming matter, a furnace of unimaginable strength, and turn it into a little song for children! You build little worlds, little stories, little shells around your minds, and that keeps infinity at bay and allows you to wake up in the morning without screaming!\u201d .. And this quote is just one of the many examples why I can't get over the brilliance that is Terry Pratchett's mind. From the scottish 'faeries' (the Nac Mac Feegle) whose lines I cannae 'elp but tae read in their accent, ( Not to be mistaken for faeries that you leave milk and cookies to to do your chores... they might help you if you leave whiskey, but you'll probably not get the kind of help you want), to Miss Level, a single person living in two bodies, described in utmost perfection.. To Death, whose appearance was short and surprising but delightful as ever.. And so the list goes on. There's not one thing Terry Pratchett can not write about. Insane as his ideas might be, he has a way of making them work. He writes them in such a way, it is almost like watching a movie unfold before your eyes. And this, Terry Pratchett, is why I love you, and why I always will love you. 5/5. ...more I\u2019ve wanted to read a Terry Pratchett book for some time now ever since I read about him in Eyeris\u2018, Daphne\u2019s and so many other blogs. The first book I tried was his first in the Discworld series \u2013 A Colour of Magic. Unfortunately, I couldn\u2019t get past the first few pages and returned it to the library. Some months later, I saw A Hat Full of Sky at one of the numerous warehouse sale I went to and decided to give Terry Pratchett one more shot. This was almost 6 months ago. Last weekend, lounging on I\u2019ve wanted to read a Terry Pratchett book for some time now ever since I read about him in Eyeris\u2018, Daphne\u2019s and so many other blogs. The first book I tried was his first in the Discworld series \u2013 A Colour of Magic. Unfortunately, I couldn\u2019t get past the first few pages and returned it to the library. Some months later, I saw A Hat Full of Sky at one of the numerous warehouse sale I went to and decided to give Terry Pratchett one more shot. This was almost 6 months ago. Last weekend, lounging on the beach with coconut trees overhead and the sounds of the waves breaking on the sand, I opened A Hat Full of Sky and began to read. 5 hours and almost a sun-burnt back later, I finished. Now I know what I\u2019ve been missing. At first, Pratchett\u2019s Discworld reminds me of Piers Anthony\u2019s Xanth (a series which I\u2019ve also recently returned to) in the sense that the set-up is fantastical but there are contemporary references. For example, when Tiffany was in the town of Twoshirts and went into a souvenier shop and bought postcards. That was an interesting intersect in a world where (as far as I am aware since I\u2019ve only read one Discworld book) people travelled from town to town on carts or broomsticks. I think the part of the book that really reeled me in and kept me reading was when Tiffany explained about the fact that her fear of heights was in fact fear of depths. That whole explanation made me giggle when I realised that that is so true. I have no problem looking up at tall trees too. So, now I\u2019m hooked and I\u2019ve borrowed Wee Free Men from the library (yes, I\u2019m going backwards) and I\u2019m quite excited to get my hands on Wintersmith (maybe I\u2019m partial to the Tiffany Aching adventures) and I\u2019ve also just bought Witches Abroad because I want to know more about Granny Weatherwax. So, I guess I\u2019m morphing into a Discworld (or Tiffany Aching) follower. Yay! ...more I had mentioned, in my review for The Wee Free Men (Discworld, #30) , that I had been, for some reason, avoiding the Tiffany Aching series of Discworld but, after a bit of prompting, picked up Wee Free Men and enjoyed it and looked forward to continuing the series. And I'm ever so glad that I did as I liked this installment even better than the last. We see Tiffany a bit older and off to learn witching from Miss Level, a witch twice the usual breed, but finding herself a bit bored with what amounts I had mentioned, in my review for The Wee Free Men (Discworld, #30) , that I had been, for some reason, avoiding the Tiffany Aching series of Discworld but, after a bit of prompting, picked up Wee Free Men and enjoyed it and looked forward to continuing the series. And I'm ever so glad that I did as I liked this installment even better than the last. We see Tiffany a bit older and off to learn witching from Miss Level, a witch twice the usual breed, but finding herself a bit bored with what amounts to chores and helping people who ought to be helping themselves more. But then comes a hiver causing trouble, and everything goes from there. One of the reasons this book was such fun was because, while the last book had a cameo from Granny Weatherwax, this one sees much more of her, and it's always great fun when she's around. Also, Tiffany, a strong character in the first book, just becomes stronger and more thoughtful as her arc progresses. And we see a bit of Death, which is always a good thing - in this series, at least. And, of course, the Mac Nac Feegle's themselves getting into all sorts of trouble while helping out. The Witches have always been a favorite of mine in the Discworld universe, and Tiffany is an excellent edition to their cadre - I so enjoy spending time with her and everyone in her world. I think I'm going to wait for winter for the next in the arc, as it is called Wintersmith , and it just seems fitting. But I may not be able to make myself wait that long. :> ...more Tiffany Aching is back in this sequel to Wee Free Men. This time she's going off to become an apprentice witch and learn whatever it is that witches do. The witch who takes her on is a bit of an anomaly, however, as she's a person with TWO bodies. Some people find this rather disturbing - her last several apprentices, in fact, couldn't handle it. Danger lurks nearby in the form of a strange being known as a \"hiver.\" It is drawn to Tiffany's power and enslaves her mind and body before the Nac Mac Tiffany Aching is back in this sequel to Wee Free Men. This time she's going off to become an apprentice witch and learn whatever it is that witches do. The witch who takes her on is a bit of an anomaly, however, as she's a person with TWO bodies. Some people find this rather disturbing - her last several apprentices, in fact, couldn't handle it. Danger lurks nearby in the form of a strange being known as a \"hiver.\" It is drawn to Tiffany's power and enslaves her mind and body before the Nac Mac Feegle can warn her of its existence. They help her free herself from its grasp, but Tiffany herself must decide how to deal with the hiver once she clears her head. Terry Pratchett's Tiffany Aching stories are a weird and lovely mixture humor, practical wisdom, and determined banging-on-the-head. If that makes sense. I'll leave you with these chestnuts: \"It's always surprising to be reminded that while you're watching and thinking about people, all knowing and superior, they're watching and thinking about you, right back at you\" (p. 277). and... \"Why do you go away? So that you can come back. So that you can see the place you came from with new eyes and extra colors. And the people there see you differently, too. Coming back to where you started is not the same as never leaving\" (p. 277). ...more Oh, the brilliance of this man; I just can't get over it. It tore my heart when I found out he's suffering from Alzheimer's last week. It's still a blow when you realize how unfair life is, even for the millionth time. This book.... goodness gracious, how do I put it in words? I liked the fact that Tiffany is now older as it gives allowance for the book to be darker, bawdier and more serious - and, if that's even possible, funnier. Her thought progression is lovely, as is the way she watches hers Oh, the brilliance of this man; I just can't get over it. It tore my heart when I found out he's suffering from Alzheimer's last week. It's still a blow when you realize how unfair life is, even for the millionth time. This book.... goodness gracious, how do I put it in words? I liked the fact that Tiffany is now older as it gives allowance for the book to be darker, bawdier and more serious - and, if that's even possible, funnier. Her thought progression is lovely, as is the way she watches herself, and those around her, develop. The philosophy behind it is deep, and covers so many areas - from how we should listen inside ourselves, believe in ourselves, respect others and elders, not fear death, not be afraid and ashamed of making mistakes, love and protect nature, and always believe that magic can happen - because most of the time it is just everyday knowledge seen through a different perspective. AND I JUST WANT TO KNOW WHAT HAPPENS WITH HER AND ROLAND..... OTP ALL THE WAY. Rachel, my dear library, I know you're going to read this, so hurry up and lend me the next one on Monday in exchange for your cake tin, pretty please :P ...more A wonderful continuation of the story of Tiffany Aching. I love her interactions with Granny Weatherwax. Pratchett packs the story with so much--humour, wisdom, peril. The lessons tucked inside aren't overdone, in part because Pratchett reminds us of the complexity of existence. Being a good person doesn't mean that someone has to be all nicey-nice all the time. Sometimes you have to draw the line and stand up for yourself. Sometimes you have to do things you don't want to do--the right things t A wonderful continuation of the story of Tiffany Aching. I love her interactions with Granny Weatherwax. Pratchett packs the story with so much--humour, wisdom, peril. The lessons tucked inside aren't overdone, in part because Pratchett reminds us of the complexity of existence. Being a good person doesn't mean that someone has to be all nicey-nice all the time. Sometimes you have to draw the line and stand up for yourself. Sometimes you have to do things you don't want to do--the right things to do--because no one else will do them if you don't. Sometimes it's enough just to know you did something...and sometimes it's good to remind people what you're capable of. But, most of all, I think Pratchett advocates knowing who you are and being true to that--but he does it in a way that isn't syrupy or preachy. ...more Why do I love thee, Terry Pratchett? Let me count the ways. It's the blending of poetry and satire, of honesty and magic. It's that seeking after the truth and the heart of the matter. And I've lost my thoughts, my sense of analysis here, because I'm still lost in this story. I just want to quote the last page because it truly is a heart of life... but then that might be a spoiler for some, while for others, they simply wouldn't be able to understand the depth of meaning in the small actions the Why do I love thee, Terry Pratchett? Let me count the ways. It's the blending of poetry and satire, of honesty and magic. It's that seeking after the truth and the heart of the matter. And I've lost my thoughts, my sense of analysis here, because I'm still lost in this story. I just want to quote the last page because it truly is a heart of life... but then that might be a spoiler for some, while for others, they simply wouldn't be able to understand the depth of meaning in the small actions there. So I'll just go back to my dreaminess and see if my hat is full of stars as well, the wind blowing past and roots sunk deep, deep down into the warm earth below. 2nd read April 1, 2010 ...more As with the last Pratchett review I'm gradually filling in gaps in my Pratchett reading and I've had a copy of this book for a while now and just had the chance to read it. I started off as a fan of Rincewind and the luggage. I loved and still do, the \"Death\" books. However I've always been a fan of Pratchett's witches tales. For me Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg are such great characters. Then I discovered Tiffany Aching. Pratchett's dialogues, internal as well as external, are so good and the As with the last Pratchett review I'm gradually filling in gaps in my Pratchett reading and I've had a copy of this book for a while now and just had the chance to read it. I started off as a fan of Rincewind and the luggage. I loved and still do, the \"Death\" books. However I've always been a fan of Pratchett's witches tales. For me Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg are such great characters. Then I discovered Tiffany Aching. Pratchett's dialogues, internal as well as external, are so good and the combination of a young Tiffany Aching and the deep history of the witches and the folklore have made these books firm favourites. This one is excellent. ...more I can not say enough about this series. Terry Pratchett is hilarious and the characters are both wise and endearing. Now that I've entered the witching world of Tiffany Aching, where she's watched over by little blue thieving, drinking and fighting pictsies, I'm having a hard time living in my world. For me that is the highest praise for any story, when I don't want it to end, when I want the fictional world an author creates to be real, and believe, on some level that it is real, somewhere beyo I can not say enough about this series. Terry Pratchett is hilarious and the characters are both wise and endearing. Now that I've entered the witching world of Tiffany Aching, where she's watched over by little blue thieving, drinking and fighting pictsies, I'm having a hard time living in my world. For me that is the highest praise for any story, when I don't want it to end, when I want the fictional world an author creates to be real, and believe, on some level that it is real, somewhere beyond the page. ...more This is my favorite of Pratchett's Tiffany Aching books, and you don't need to have read \"The Wee Free Men,\" or any Pratchett (I hadn't at the time), to enjoy it. He does a great job treading the line between magic and the real world, making this seem *this* close to believable. Plus, you gotta love a bunch of drunk violent blue fairies. \u041a\u0430\u043a \u0435\u0434\u043d\u043e \u043c\u043e\u043c\u0438\u0447\u0435 \u0449\u0435 \u0438\u043c\u0430 \u0436\u0435\u043b\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0435\u0442\u043e \u0438 \u0430\u043c\u0431\u0438\u0446\u0438\u044f\u0442\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0443\u0447\u0438, \u0434\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u043f\u0440\u0430\u0432\u0438 \u043d\u0435\u0449\u043e \u0441\u044a\u0441 \u0441\u0435\u0431\u0435 \u0441\u0438, \u0430\u043a\u043e \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0437 \u043f\u044a\u0440\u0432\u0438\u0442\u0435 15 \u0433\u043e\u0434\u0438\u043d\u0438 \u043e\u0442 \u0436\u0438\u0432\u043e\u0442\u0430 \u0439 \u044f \u0437\u0430\u043b\u0438\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u0444\u0438\u043b\u043c\u0438, \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0438, \u043a\u043e\u043c\u0438\u043a\u0441\u0438 \u0438 \u0441\u043f\u0438\u0441\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0441 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u043d\u0446\u0435\u0441\u0438 \u0438 \u0431\u0430\u0440\u0431\u0438\u0442\u0430? \u0426\u044f\u043b\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0440\u0435\u0432\u044e: http://kaka-cuuka.com/knigi/%D0%B0-ha...", "Title": "A Hat Full of Sky"},
