{"Comments": "\u201dThere was something particularly American about it--blaming yourself for bad luck--that resistance to seeing your life as affected by social forces, a tendency to attribute larger problems to individual behavior. The ugly reverse of the American Dream.\u201d The other side of that coin is that Americans tend to look at people who have a streak of bad luck as having brought that adversity upon themselves. Maybe they didn\u2019t pray hard enough, or they kicked their dog too many times, or they slept around \u201dThere was something particularly American about it--blaming yourself for bad luck--that resistance to seeing your life as affected by social forces, a tendency to attribute larger problems to individual behavior. The ugly reverse of the American Dream.\u201d The other side of that coin is that Americans tend to look at people who have a streak of bad luck as having brought that adversity upon themselves. Maybe they didn\u2019t pray hard enough, or they kicked their dog too many times,<---M> or they slept around on their wife</---M>, or it could be the trickle down effect of having been born to the wrong parents. We get mad at the forces that are aligned against us, but we don\u2019t always land the blame where it needs to be placed. This story is set in Pennsylvania, in the mill towns. The once vibrant communities where people could make $30 to $40 an hour, but then the mills closed and were moved to places that most people couldn\u2019t find on a map. People lost these good jobs that allowed them to buy nice houses, new cars, and send their kids to college. The only jobs they had to replace them with were $5 to $7 an hour jobs, so they moved away chasing new dreams, new work elsewhere, poverty among strangers. The ones that stayed: \u201dhalf the people went on welfare and the other half went back to hunting and gathering.\u201d Fine homes, repossessed, with no one to buy them were stripped of what could be sold and left to slowly fall apart. Capitalism at it\u2019s finest, right? It isn\u2019t about profit.<---F> It is about astronomical profit</---F>. Besides Americans love cheap goods even if they aren\u2019t made as well. It just means they won\u2019t last as long so they can buy and buy again. When did we become more proud of money than building something. \u201dThe work was all in the Midwest now, taking down the auto plants in Michigan and Indiana. And one day even that work would end, and there would be no record, nothing left standing, to show that anything had ever been built in America. It was going to cause big problems, he didn\u2019t know how but he felt it. You could not have a country, not this big, that didn\u2019t make things for itself. There would be ramifications eventually.\u201d Well at least their kids went to school and learned about computers. Thank goodness they will be able to find work that their parents can\u2019t. Except\u2026 those jobs\u2026 as quickly as they are created are also moved overseas. Son-of-a-.... Lee English got out though. She had an SAT score off the charts. She got into Yale and married an ultra rich guy. Did she love him? hmmm... well... she liked him. Probably wouldn\u2019t be too wise to see how his parents or his grandparents accumulated all this wealth. Her mother who probably married her blue collar father to irritate her wealthy parents is an intelligent, trapped, beautiful woman who inexplicably, soon after Lee leaves, weighs herself down with 11 pounds of rocks and drowns herself. Drowns herself...claps her son in her vacated cage. Isaac English is by far the smartest person to ever go through this Pennsylvania school district and that includes his sister, but here he is 20 years old still stuck there caring for his father Henry. A father who doesn\u2019t even like him that much. Isaac is undersized, couldn\u2019t play sports, and has interests in just about everything except the things that interest Henry. Now Isaac doesn\u2019t have any friends, well he has one friend, and one thing I\u2019ve learned about life is that you only need one really good friend. Billy Poe is a good friend. He was football star with offers to play ball in college about anywhere he wanted to go. It may seem like an odd pairing, but they were two people absolutely the most talented in the school at what they did best. So when one gets in trouble it is no great surprise to find the other in trouble too. Was it just bad luck being in the wrong place at the wrong time? Maybe corrupted genes, wrong temperament, or people just born to fail? Or maybe when opportunity knocked they didn\u2019t answer the door. There are bad men and then there are bored good men that do bad things. Interesting thing though, Billy Poe makes Lee English go all gooey inside. When she comes back for a visit...did someone say something about a husband? So Isaac takes off, for a variety of reason, not least that the police might be interested in talking to him. He plans to hitchhike across country and apply to Berkeley. Good plan, terrible execution. The narration flips back and forth between characters with each new chapter. I\u2019ve noticed in some reviews that readers were confused about who was narrating at different points throughout the novel. <---A>Philipp Meyer</---A> begins each chapter labelled with Lee, Henry, Poe, Isaac, Grace, and Harris to cue the reader as to who will be narrating that chapter. I did not experience any confusion. As the novel progresses I was so caught up in the events that the chapter cues were no longer needed. I knew who was explaining and I was looking for answers. Grace is Poe\u2019s momma. She married the wrong guy, but sometimes we can\u2019t help who we fall in love with. She was attracted to Virgil like lightening to Ben Franklin. She has booted Virgil out several times, and generally, immediately, picked up with some other guy, sometimes that other guy was Sheriff Harris. \u201dThe spare tire comes out. The spare tire is you.\u201d I don\u2019t know if I\u2019ve ever been the spare tire, but I don\u2019t have to be the spare tire to know I don\u2019t want to ever be the spare tire. Sheriff Harris is most assuredly the spare tire or as one of my friends likes to crudely call it...the dick in the jar. When Poe gets jammed up, Grace loves Harris up like he is Elvis Presley born again. He takes a trip to Graceland. Meyer writes with such assurance, with such stark realism that within a few chapters you feel like you\u2019ve known these people your whole life. The scenes he writes about prison are absolutely terrifying. If anyone ever thinks that they can handle prison they need to read about what it will really entail in some of the later Poe chapters. He is worried about the future of America and what we have lost drips from these pages like melted ice cream. Our future has lost all cohesion. \u201dThe real problem is the average citizen does not have a job he can be good at. You lose that, you lose the country.\u201d Those who are born rich, or were smart enough, lucky enough to be one of the privileged few don\u2019t seem to be proud to be Americans anymore. They aren\u2019t interesting in lifting up their brothers or sisters. They aren\u2019t interested in building anything anymore with American labor and American ingenuity. They are interested only in piling up as much money as they possibly can. They are proud to be rich. Is there anything more boring than a pile of money? We used to build things, make things. Now those things are made in China or Taiwan or Indonesia not in small towns in Pennsylvania, Nebraska or Alabama. We used to build grand monuments to the world. Now those things are being built in places like Dubai or Zhoushan not in New York, or Chicago, or Detroit, or Los Angeles. I\u2019m lucky that I grew up in an America where it still felt like anything was possible. We still look like that America on the surface, but Meyer is going to show you that the underpinnings have been cut, and the brass wiring has been robbed, and the concrete is crumbling to dust. We became a superpower by building things and we will have to return to building things if we ever expect to have a viable future. We need to borrow the ideas of the past and bring them into the present. We need to be worried NOW . Highly recommended!! A novel with a compelling plot and burnished overtones of beautiful indignation. If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.com I also have a Facebook blogger page at: https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten ...more When I worked in France I covered a lot of industrial disputes, as you can imagine. Renault would try and close a factory, and suddenly the whole country was out on strike: I found it incredible when I first arrived. \u2018Surely,\u2019 I said to colleagues, \u2018someone running a company has the right to decide whether or not to keep one of their factories open.\u2019 They looked at me like I was insane. They didn't see the issue in those terms at all: for them, it was about a world with a colossal wealth gap whe When I worked in France I covered a lot of industrial disputes, as you can imagine. Renault would try and close a factory, and suddenly the whole country was out on strike: I found it incredible when I first arrived. \u2018Surely,\u2019 I said to colleagues, \u2018someone running a company has the right to decide whether or not to keep one of their factories open.\u2019 They looked at me like I was insane. They didn't see the issue in those terms at all: for them, it was about a world with a colossal wealth gap where businessmen who make millions a day can put hundreds of people out of work just to increase their margins. For American colleagues (who on top of all that were also getting their heads around European healthcare), it was sometimes quite a paradigm shift. And whatever happened to unionism in the States, anyway? I guess the decline in manufacturing put an end to a lot of it, but it's hard to avoid the feeling that there's something on the level of the national psyche going on, too. The steel-working towns in southwestern Pennsylvania that form the subject and the setting for <+++>American Rust</+++> are a case in point: thousands of people laid off in a very short space of time, an entire region sent into acute decline \u2013 the kind of mass shutdown that you'd expect would generate a near-revolution, at least within local communities. But there had never been any revolution, not anything close, a hundred and fifty thousand people lost their jobs but they had all gone quietly. It was obvious there were people responsible, there were living breathing men who'd made those decisions to put the entire Valley out of work, they had vacation homes in Aspen, they sent their kids to Yale, their portfolios went up when the mills shut down. [\u2026] There was something particularly American about it\u2014blaming yourself for bad luck\u2014that resistance to seeing your life as affected by social forces, a tendency to attribute larger problems to individual behavior. The ugly reverse of the American Dream. In France, she thought, they would have shut down the country. They would, too. The landscape of American industrial decline is described with awesome power in this book, and its effects on people's choices and decisions are explored relentlessly and without sentimentality. It must have seemed especially timely when it was released in 2009; even now, it feels like an important way of putting some flesh on the bones of all the newspaper stories about economic uncertainty. Most impressive \u2013 particularly for a first novel \u2013 is that the characters are not dropped into this environment cold, but rather seem to have grown out of it organically: the school football star now vegetating in a doublewide, the smart kid forced to stay because his father was injured in an industrial accident, the girl who escaped guiltily to Yale in an attempt to avoid the fate of all her small-town friends: \u2018Do a boy once in school, know it's a mistake but five years later there's no one else and the bar is closing so you do it again. Ten years later you're married to him.\u2019 In Trish's fine review , she mentions that this is the sort of book that should get more men reading novels, and I can see something in that \u2013 it does feel like quite a male book. Not the laddishness of a Nick Hornby, or the horny-intellectual stance of a Philip Roth, but rather a kind of blue-collar gruffness, conveyed through an admirably curt and colloquial prose style. Some critics have complained about this prose, rather prissily I feel, objecting to the many comma splices and other run-ons \u2013 and occasionally, it must be said, the effect becomes a little staccato and intrusive: Poe was asleep, the warm air blowing on them, the faint light from the dashboard, she ran her hands across his legs, her fingers through the hair between them, then she touched the car window, the cold glass, outside it was very cold. But on the whole I thought it worked extremely well. Meyer is able to compress a huge amount of information and personality into some very brief internal dialogues, like a kind of stream-of-consciousness Cormac McCarthy \u2013 straight away when I began the book I found myself admiring this little sketch in the opening paragraph: Late morning and he walked quickly through the woods toward town\u2014a small thin figure with a backpack, trying hard to keep out of sight. He'd taken four thousand dollars from the old man's desk; Stolen , he corrected himself. The nuthouse prison-break. Anyone sees you and it's Silas get the dogs. That's just lovely. In general this is a book that feels well-edited, well-refined \u2013 although I still suspect it would be better if it were a little shorter. And it's certainly not problem-free. I found the characters' motivations hard to believe a lot of the time, and the opening dramatic confrontation, on which the remainder of the novel rests, never quite rang true to me. But the book still works, because the characters and the environment feel absolutely real, even in their more technical passages. (The descriptions of prison are the most gritty and naturalistic I can remember reading.) Although you can feel the whole thing building to a nasty climax, the tragedy is not rooted in narrative melodrama but in economic reality. \u2018\u2026it wasn't just that we lost all those jobs, it was that people didn't have anything to be good at anymore. [\u2026] There's only so good you can be about pushing a mop or emptying a bedpan. We're trending backwards as a nation, probably for the first time in history, and it's not the kids with the green hair and the bones through their noses. [\u2026] The real problem is that the average citizen does not have a job he can be good at. You lose that, you lose the country.\u2019 The French are getting their placards ready \u2013 they know exactly what's coming. And to those prominent voices in the US who still believe that success depends only on working hard and saying your prayers, this novel is likely to do more to illustrate the counterargument than a hundred news reports ever will. ...more awwww poor boook. i am only feeling three stars here but i am giving it four because the other reviews are so unfair. (not the one that says there has been no good fiction published this century - that one is so much laughable curmudgeonly elitist bullshit i can't even acknowledge it) but it's not a bad book. as far as the \"confusing narration\" \"who is speeeeaking??\" hint: the chapter names are the names of the narrators. so - no great mystery there. the run-ons and lack of punctuation?? it's mo awwww poor boook. i am only feeling three stars here but i am giving it four because the other reviews are so unfair. (not the one that says there has been no good fiction published this century - that one is so much laughable curmudgeonly elitist bullshit i can't even acknowledge it) but it's not a bad book. as far as the \"confusing narration\" \"who is speeeeaking??\" hint: the chapter names are the names of the narrators. so - no great mystery there. the run-ons and lack of punctuation?? it's mostly internal thoughts of characters with varying degrees of intellect/insight, so there's bound to be some diversion from textbook grammar. frankly, i didn't even notice, and usually that sort of thing stands right out to me. guess i was enjoying the plot too much to nitpick the punctuation. it's good; it is shades of russell banks and richard russo and all the \"frustration about being trapped in a dying town\" that makes steinbeck so charmingly bleak and the \"solo man on a hopeless quest\" theme that brightens cormac mccarthy's pages. and if tom \"i don't read books written by people under forty\" fuller liked it, who the hell can say anything else?? tom fuller, kids, smartest man i know. ...more Phillip Meyer\u2019s The Son is one of the best books I\u2019ve ever read. It\u2019s a multi-generational epic about the undulating fortunes of a Texas oil family that beautifully explores the dimensions and consequences of America\u2019s westward expansion. It manages to operate as both a pointed deconstruction of historical mythmaking while also being devastatingly entertaining. It has taken me awhile, but I have finally circled back to <+++>American Rust</+++> , Meyer\u2019s debut novel. American Rust takes place in contemporary Phillip Meyer\u2019s The Son is one of the best books I\u2019ve ever read. It\u2019s a multi-generational epic about the undulating fortunes of a Texas oil family that beautifully explores the dimensions and consequences of America\u2019s westward expansion. It manages to operate as both a pointed deconstruction of historical mythmaking while also being devastatingly entertaining. It has taken me awhile, but I have finally circled back to American Rust , Meyer\u2019s debut novel. American Rust takes place in contemporary, post-Great Recession Pennsylvania. Yet, like The Son , it uses a familiar narrative trope \u2013 in this case, the timeless \u201ca man goes on a journey\u201d \u2013 to critique American exceptionalism. American Rust is a forensically-detailed journey through the detritus of the American Dream. The two main characters are Isaac English and Billy Poe. Isaac is a brilliant underachiever who is caught in the rural town of Buell, Pennsylvania (a fictional place, modeled after Any Post-Industrial City, USA). His sister, Lee, has gone off to Yale and married a rich husband, leaving Isaac to care for his ailing, widower father, Henry. Living in a financial hell-scape, Isaac determines do follow the route of any good Steinbeckian character: he sets off on foot for California. Before leaving, he gets his friend Billy to tag along for part of the trip. Billy is a former big-man-on-campus, a high school football star and lady\u2019s man who never took the next step. He is held back by his own limited vision, and a history of violence. Isaac and Billy don\u2019t get far before an event takes place. That\u2019s all I can say. Something happens and the story spins out from there. Meyer\u2019s tells this story from the third-person limited perspective. He uses alternating viewpoint chapters that capture the perspectives of a half-dozen characters, including Isaac, Billy, and Lee; Billy\u2019s long-suffering mother, Grace; police chief Bud Harris, who is involved with Grace and looks out for Billy; and Henry English, a former factory worker reduced to a wheelchair. Fans of George R.R. Martin\u2019s A Song of Ice and Fire will recognize this storytelling style. (Fans of George R.R. Martin might not recognize how an author is able to start a story, and then finish it). Each of the chapters are written in a kind of stream-of-conscious style that captures the varied dimensions of each person. It\u2019s a literary conceit, to be sure, but Meyer\u2019s keeps it readable. This isn\u2019t the kind of book where you need to unpack every sentence to figure out what just happened. Meyer\u2019s has a very particular knack for capturing the distinct personalities of each of his creations. You know you\u2019ve captured a fictional person when you \u2013 the reader \u2013 can both root for a character, dislike a character, and change your mind about a character several times, all in the span of 367 pages. The plot \u2013 of which I will not speak in detail \u2013 is engaging and fast moving. It is, in fact, so engaging and fast moving that you probably won\u2019t stop to think too deeply about some nagging plot holes and questionable logic. I was reading so fast at the end that I didn't have time to do anything except turn the page. To be sure, American Rust is not a perfect novel. It is flawed. Overall, however, it achieves all its ends. It is executed with such supreme skill that minor hiccups are easily ignored. (As a personal note, I read two-thirds of American Rust while attending a seminar so boring that I\u2019d fall asleep if I tried explaining it to you. Everyone I was with thought it was terrible. I thought it was great! Didn't hear a damn word of it. My only complaint was that it didn't last quite long enough for me to finish the book.) Plot and character aside, the great achievement of American Rust is in its setting. Meyer\u2019s Pennsylvania is an economically-devastated wasteland of dying towns and shuttered factories. All the jobs have gone overseas and the once-thriving middle-class has disappeared. Drugs have replaced wages. Vagrants ride the rails like in Depression-days of yore. The woods and back-roads are populated by the dispersed and desperate. A stranger walking into town gets the cross-eye from law enforcement. Meyer\u2019s is incredibly effective at creating an atmosphere. His capitalist moonscape reminded me of nothing less than Cormac McCarthy\u2019s apocalyptic vision in The Road . The Great Recession was a moment of historical impact. Millions of jobs were lost that will never be recovered. The very roadmap of American life was torn up, thrown in a metal can, and lit on fire. It is a big deal. It is a seismic thing. And yet the world just keeps spinning without any real accounting. The rich stay rich; it\u2019s no one\u2019s fault; and let\u2019s move on. (And just over the horizon? Robots). This is one of the few articles of popular culture that engages the subject head-on. (One of the most interesting things about the mega-popular thriller Gone Girl is how it tried to tackle the consequences of the Great Recession, with powerful scenes set in an abandoned mall and a deserted subdivision. Yet all anyone cared about was that halftime twist. So much for dealing with our issues). American Rust isn\u2019t just critiquing our self-conceptions, it is dramatizing a new reality. Something has gone terribly wrong here, and for some reason, only a New York City developer and a self-described socialist from Vermont have tapped into a pulsing vein of resentment that has existed for awhile but been studiously ignored. You don\u2019t have to buy into political demagoguery to acknowledge that a huge swath of people who had been dutifully following \u201cthe Way\u201d are getting left behind. Have, in fact, already been left in the rearview. No one in American Rust is real. Yet it feels like Meyer is speaking for actual people whose voices have gone long unheard. He is the Chorus for a vanishing species: the blue-collar American Middle Class. ...more Philipp Meyer\u2019s American Rust is one of the finest first novels I\u2019ve read in the last several years, and a novel that many writers(regardless of their experience) would give their eye teeth or left nut to have written. The novel follows the odd couple of Billy Poe and Isaac English from an act of brutal if needful violence to the furies of internal and external justice have exacted their balancing pound of flesh. Poe, is a behemoth, a former football star, a bit of a dunderhead with a short fuse Philipp Meyer\u2019s American Rust is one of the finest first novels I\u2019ve read in the last several years, and a novel that many writers(regardless of their experience) would give their eye teeth or left nut to have written. The novel follows the odd couple of Billy Poe and Isaac English from an act of brutal if needful violence to the furies of internal and external justice have exacted their balancing pound of flesh. Poe, is a behemoth, a former football star, a bit of a dunderhead with a short fuse. Isaac is a small, frail kid with Ivy League ambitions and the SAT scores to get him there. Both of them are firmly mired in a rut as the novel begins. Poe is a few years past his football glories and past the point where recruiters will probably return his calls anymore. Isaac\u2019s dreams might not be as close to the expiration date but he is stuck with a chronically ill dad, in the rust belt, in the rotting carcass town of Buell, PA; he\u2019s turning desperate, like a rat in a maze and Meyer makes that horrid feeling of good dreams turned sour as bile heavy, palpable and real. The violence that plays out through the novel is nasty and true. Meyer gets how a life trajectory can change in the blink of an eye, with one hasty if needful action. You can work your ass off all your life and still end up in the shitter, in a dead-end relationship that is all loins and no love, in an occupation that kills the soul with its monotony but keeps a roof over your head and bread(maybe crusts only) in your kid\u2019s mouth. Though American Rust primary duo are fully realized, wonderful characters, Meyer illustrates these hard truths of working class life in early 21st Century America best through Poe\u2019s mom, Grace. She is the most amazing creation in the book. Butting up against middle-age, she is still a fine looking woman with twice the backbone of the males in her life, working long hours as a seamstress and soul-sick with worry for her wayward son. Life has turned Grace a realist, but still she dreams of escape, through a return to college, through a good man, through a better fate for her son, Poe. When Poe\u2019s life goes off the track , and Grace feels obligated to renew a relationship with the local sheriff, it\u2019s a wonderfully primal yet sophisticated mother-love on display, true and harrowing and touching. And Meyer is skilled enough to have the relationship between Grace and the sheriff not rooted only in pragmatism and the instinct towards survival of a family, but also in tenderness and true sensual companionship. Meyer gets that humans are complicated beasts and we never undertake any action purely through one motivation, so the breadth of the span between saving your soul and throwing your life utterly away is a fine one indeed. And Meyer\u2019s work is full of that, small bits of folk wisdom brushing up against crime thriller conventions. Rust belt noir as tough as the steel workers that once graced Buell, but full of legitimate emotion that gets you blinking back the tears as you follow the characters through the novel. American Rust is a fine edition to the small canon of recent American fiction that gets to the kernel of violence in the American Soul and the almost limitless compassion that brushes up right against it. ...more I have been living in Pittsburgh for over seven years and in that time I have often visited the Mon River Valley south of the city of champions. Towns such as Monessen, Donora, New Eagle, Brownsville, Bell Vernon and others make up the Mon River Valley, They are towns nestled between the muddy brown Monongahela River and inspiring hillsides, each town has its own unique charm and the region is the setting of Philip Meyer's American Rust. Meyer's describes the valley strikingly well, I got a thr I have been living in Pittsburgh for over seven years and in that time I have often visited the Mon River Valley south of the city of champions. Towns such as Monessen, Donora, New Eagle, Brownsville, Bell Vernon and others make up the Mon River Valley, They are towns nestled between the muddy brown Monongahela River and inspiring hillsides, each town has its own unique charm and the region is the setting of Philip Meyer's American Rust. Meyer's describes the valley strikingly well, I got a thrill recognizing towns ,landmarks and the layout of the land, it\u2019s a wonder why more books don\u2019t take place in Southwestern Pennsylvania, Michael Carbon\u2019s Wonder Boys takes place in Pittsburgh and surrounding area, I got the same holy crap I have been there feeling in both books. As for the story of American Rust, let\u2019s see it\u2019s got a thriller's pacing, is told tough multiple perspectives that are more like getting in the characters\u2019 heads , you feel their moral dilemmas and how they make sense of the world around them. While American Rust is about broken dreams, in towns with once glorious times their inhabitants getting by on hard times, the center is about friendship and its power in horrible situations. Two best friends, Isaac and Poe, get mixed up in an act of violence in which their friendship is tested. American Rust is haunting, a realistic modern American drama that seems fresh and feels right for the current post 2008 recession we live in. I have to get this of my chest, a lot of reviews say American Rust is unreadable at times, I didn't find it unreadable at all, am i crazy or something? I have a theroy but don't feel like getting in to it, we all are different kinds of readers. ...more In \"American Rust,\" Philipp Meyer\u2019s debut novel, the steel mill in the fictional town of Buell, Pennsylvania closed in 1987 and was partially dismantled ten years later. Now the mill stands like an ancient ruin that is being taken over by vines and other vegetation. The only visitors are coyotes and deer and an occasional human squatter. Buell was \u201ca place that had recently been well-off, its downtown full of historic stone buildings, mostly boarded now.\u201d What is true of Buell is also true of ot In \"American Rust,\" Philipp Meyer\u2019s debut novel, the steel mill in the fictional town of Buell, Pennsylvania closed in 1987 and was partially dismantled ten years later. Now the mill stands like an ancient ruin that is being taken over by vines and other vegetation. The only visitors are coyotes and deer and an occasional human squatter. Buell was \u201ca place that had recently been well-off, its downtown full of historic stone buildings, mostly boarded now.\u201d What is true of Buell is also true of other steel mill towns located in the Mon Valley. \u201cFor a hundred years the Valley had been the center of steel production in the country, in the entire world, technically,\u201d but globalization and automation, along with outsourcing and offshoring, have taken its toll and in the last two decades the area has lost 150,000 jobs and \u201cmost of the towns could no longer afford basic services; many no longer had any police.\u201d One character, a former police chief and current justice of the peace, says that \u201cit wasn\u2019t just that we lost all those jobs, it was because people didn\u2019t have anything to be good at anymore\u2026.We\u2019re trending backwards as a nation, probably for the first time in our history, and it\u2019s not the kids with the green hair and the bones through their noses. Personally I don\u2019t care for it, but those things are inevitable. The real problem is the average citizen does not have a job he can be good at. You lose that, you lose the country.\u201d Now the Valley is primarily the home of retirees who have no choice but to stay and the young who haven\u2019t acquired the courage to leave. Two of the young people are odd-couple friends, Isaac English and Billy Poe. \u201cIsaac English and his older sister were the two smartest kids in town, the whole Valley, probably; the sister had gone to Yale. A rising tide, Isaac had hoped, that might lift him as well.\u201d But at age twenty, and two years out of high school, and despite an IQ of 167, Isaac still lives in Buell. He is one who wants to leave but remains to care for his father, who is an invalid as the result of a steel mill accident. The whole town thought Billy would go to college to keep playing [foot]ball\u2026[but] two years later here he was living in his mother\u2019s trailer,\u201d a double-wide that \u201csat at the top of a dirt road\u2026on a large tract of woodland.\u201d Billy turned down a scholarship to Colgate because, unlike Isaac, he can\u2019t understand why anyone would ever want to leave Buell. He thinks this despite the fact that he is unemployed after recently being laid-off from a minimum wage job. The world spins out of control for the two friends when, in the early stages of Isaac\u2019s attempt to finally break away and head West to attend college, he and Billy become involved in a killing (Is it murder or self-defense?). The tragic event and its repercussions overwhelm the two young men and devastate them and their families. Philipp Meyer\u2019s second novel, \"The Son,\" which has received almost universal acclaim from critics, was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize. The critics also liked \"American Rust,\" but readers have been decidedly mixed in their reaction to it. A lot of them like it and a lot of them hate it. Here are three primary complaints about the book: 1) there are six alternating narrators; 2) they engage in stream-of-consciousness thought and; 3) there is an open-ended conclusion that leaves many of the novel\u2019s conflicts unresolved and its questions unanswered. I thought Meyer was able to juggle his narrators effectively, so I didn\u2019t find that to be a distraction. I can\u2019t speak for others, but I rarely think in paragraphs, or even complete sentences. In fact, there isn\u2019t a lot of punctuation in my thoughts. Therefore, I thought his usage of stream-of-consciousness helped me better understand his characters and their motivations. And let\u2019s face it, if life is anything, it is open-ended and many conflicts do remain unresolved and many questions are never answered. \"American Rust\" is a social protest novel that harkens back to the \u201830\u2019s and writers such as John Steinbeck and others who championed working people and protested the economic dislocation of the day. Meyer's depiction of the economic decline that has devastated the Pennsylvania steel industry reminds me of what Richard Russo has written about similar decline in his area of upstate New York. And if one took Meyer\u2019s characters and placed them in Mississippi, they would be very similar to characters created by the late Larry Brown. Critics have compared Meyer to Cormac McCarthy, Ernest Hemingway, and Dennis LeHane. I even saw a headline which asked \u201cIs Philipp Meyer the next William Faulkner?\u201d And that was before \"The Son.\" But the answer is no, of course not, there will only be one Faulkner. But that\u2019s certainly high praise for a debut novel and could have been the kiss of death. However, Meyer did not fall prey to the sophomore jinx. \"The Son\" has been even better received than \"American Rust.\" ...more 3.5 stars American Rust by Philipp Meyer is set in the fictional town of Buell amid the decaying industrial landscape of Mon Valley Pennsylvania. Isaac English and Billy Poe are best friends both still hanging around the decaying town of Buell and wanting out, Isaac is caring for his sick father while his sister Lee has moved away. Billy Poe has missed his chance to become a football star and finds himself attracting the attentions of the law on several occasions. Isaac plans his escape and on th 3.5 stars American Rust by Philipp Meyer is set in the fictional town of Buell amid the decaying industrial landscape of Mon Valley Pennsylvania. Isaac English and Billy Poe are best friends both still hanging around the decaying town of Buell and wanting out, Isaac is caring for his sick father while his sister Lee has moved away. Billy Poe has missed his chance to become a football star and finds himself attracting the attentions of the law on several occasions. Isaac plans his escape and on the day of his leaving town something happens that changes the two friends fates and test the loyalties of their friendship and those of families and loved ones. I really enjoyed this slow paced novel and thought the writing was really good. The story is written from the alternating view of the novel's characters and this I really enjoyed as I found the story came through very clearly. The characters are totally believable and I found a wonderful sense of time and place in the novel. The town's demise after the a downturn in the steel Industry is very relevant to this story and we clearly see how people who once had purpose have lost their livelihoods and their self esteem and at times the novel could border on depressing. After reading this book I would be wary of recommending it to friends as as its one of those books that is not going to be everybody's cup of tea but I enjoyed the read and will look out for other books by Philipp Meyer. ...more ARC received through the First Reads giveaway program. I found American Rust to be very satisfying. It reminded me of Faulkner's writing, except for the part where Faulkner drives me crazy! I was also reminded a bit of Empire Falls , as both take place in towns that have fallen on rough times. There is definitely a plot, and it does move forward, but at a slower pace than expected for a story revolving around a murder. Meyer takes his time and explores the minds of the characters, which I think was ARC received through the First Reads giveaway program. I found American Rust to be very satisfying. It reminded me of Faulkner's writing, except for the part where Faulkner drives me crazy! I was also reminded a bit of Empire Falls , as both take place in towns that have fallen on rough times. There is definitely a plot, and it does move forward, but at a slower pace than expected for a story revolving around a murder. Meyer takes his time and explores the minds of the characters, which I think was a fantastic choice. I think if I was going through what these characters experience, I would be spending a good deal of time in my head. Not much time elapses during the course of the novel, which makes sense as thoughts take up most of the pages. American Rust is a slice of life in the truest sense--you get some feel for the place, but the inner lives of the people involved are what's really important. They may not spend much time really noticing their surroundings, as you take a place for granted when you live in it. The ending, too, does not resolve all loose ends. This is appropriate. Life does not always deliver in a neat package. ...more \"Quantas promessas pode uma pessoa quebrar antes de deixares de a perdoar?\" \"Ferrugem Americana\" \u00e9 o primeiro romance de Philipp Meyer e a sua hist\u00f3ria tem lugar numa pequena cidade da Pensilv\u00e2nia. Outrora o cora\u00e7\u00e3o da ind\u00fastria do a\u00e7o, Buell tornou-se numa cidade em ru\u00ednas. Antigamente fervilhava de vida, mas hoje s\u00f3 tem para oferecer desemprego e pobreza aos seus habitantes. A atmosfera sufocante aliada ao desespero h\u00e1 muito enraizado nas personagens torna o ambiente sombrio e a tens\u00e3o \u00e9 palp\u00e1v \"Quantas promessas pode uma pessoa quebrar antes de deixares de a perdoar?\" \"Ferrugem Americana\" \u00e9 o primeiro romance de Philipp Meyer e a sua hist\u00f3ria tem lugar numa pequena cidade da Pensilv\u00e2nia. Outrora o cora\u00e7\u00e3o da ind\u00fastria do a\u00e7o, Buell tornou-se numa cidade em ru\u00ednas. Antigamente fervilhava de vida, mas hoje s\u00f3 tem para oferecer desemprego e pobreza aos seus habitantes. A atmosfera sufocante aliada ao desespero h\u00e1 muito enraizado nas personagens torna o ambiente sombrio e a tens\u00e3o \u00e9 palp\u00e1vel. Philipp Meyer conta-nos a sua hist\u00f3ria intercalando os diferentes pontos de vista das personagens. Desta forma, n\u00e3o s\u00f3 cria uma narrativa poderosa com m\u00faltiplas perspectivas, como tamb\u00e9m proporciona ao leitor um conhecimento aprofundado dos pensamentos e sentimentos de quem est\u00e1 a narrar. A fluidez impressionante da narrativa \u00e9 fruto das diferentes vozes que lhe d\u00e3o vida. Estas variam de um tom intenso e ponderado, a um ritmo acelerado preenchido por in\u00fameros pensamentos, a divaga\u00e7\u00f5es e reflex\u00f5es carregadas de desilus\u00e3o ou uma coragem contagiante. Esta \u00e9 uma hist\u00f3ria sobre pessoas. \u00c9 uma hist\u00f3ria sobre a vida que nos mostra como personalidades,mentalidades e estilos de vida t\u00e3o diferentes podem estar ligadas. As personagens de Meyer s\u00e3o essencialmente e, acima de tudo, humanas. Os defeitos s\u00e3o destacados acima das virtudes e os seus problemas e quest\u00f5es existenciais t\u00eam um car\u00e1cter assustadoramente real. O escritor americano escreve uma forma clara e objectiva, sem embelezar a realidade obscura que rodeia o seu enredo. A amizade e a lealdade, o amor e a trai\u00e7\u00e3o, a fam\u00edlia e as obriga\u00e7\u00f5es, o sonho e a desilus\u00e3o, a incompreens\u00e3o e o isolamento, o medo, o desejo e a coragem. Acima de tudo \"Ferrugem Americana\" retrata o cora\u00e7\u00e3o e a mente humana. Afinal de contas, todos procuramos o mesmo. Durante a leitura vi um pouco de mim pr\u00f3pria em cada uma das personagens. N\u00e3o concordo com todas as suas cren\u00e7as, n\u00e3o compreendo todos os seus comportamentos, n\u00e3o acredito em todos os seus sentimentos, n\u00e3o aprovo todas as suas atitude. E isto \u00e9 o que as torna t\u00e3o pr\u00f3ximas de mim como qualquer outra pessoa do mundo onde vivo. Os sentimentos e pensamentos das personagens s\u00e3o acompanhados pelo ambiente que os envolve. O tempo que se faz no per\u00edodo narrado age em sintonia com as suas personagens. A sintonia entre o Homem e a natureza \u00e9 surpreendente. \"Ferrugem Americana\" mostra-nos a insensatez provocada pela inexperi\u00eancia da juventude, a incapacidade de adapta\u00e7\u00e3o daqueles que se destacam dos restantes, as escolhas feitas a pensar nos outros em vez de n\u00f3s pr\u00f3prios, a justi\u00e7a feita pela m\u00e3o do Homem e n\u00e3o do sistema em que vive, o amor incondicional e complexo, o que diferencia uma m\u00e3e, de uma esposa e de uma mulher independente, a complexidade do amor, os la\u00e7os da amizade pura e, acima de tudo isto, o controlo que cada um possui sobre a sua vida. Apesar de todos serem vitimas das circunst\u00e2ncias,ningu\u00e9m \u00e9 livre de culpa. Uma mente dotada de um intelecto sem igual e uma capacidade f\u00edsica invej\u00e1vel s\u00e3o promessas de um futuro brilhante . Duas promessas quebradas num pa\u00eds que age com indiferen\u00e7a. O leitor v\u00ea-se nas estradas que o levam para fora de Buell, num parque de caravanas, numa pris\u00e3o de seguran\u00e7a m\u00e1xima e numa esquadra da policia. Conhece o interior de f\u00e1bricas e observa as paisagens dominadas pelos destro\u00e7os de uma cidade que j\u00e1 nada tem para oferecer, mas cujos cidad\u00e3os teimam em n\u00e3o abandonar Philipp Meyer \u00e9 um autor que conjuga a personalidade, as circunst\u00e2ncias e o cen\u00e1rio numa trag\u00e9dia caracterizada pela ac\u00e7\u00f5es humanas. ...more So I guess this is what is known as grit-lit. It's my first foray into this kind of book, but judging by this one, it won't be my last. It's actually a very simple story, of one young man trying to get out of a very depressed town in Pennsylvania. He is accompanied for part of the way by a friend, and along the way, a death ensues. And basically the whole rest of the book is dealing with the ramifications of that encounter. The chapters alternate from the points of view of the various main charact So I guess this is what is known as grit-lit. It's my first foray into this kind of book, but judging by this one, it won't be my last. It's actually a very simple story, of one young man trying to get out of a very depressed town in Pennsylvania. He is accompanied for part of the way by a friend, and along the way, a death ensues. And basically the whole rest of the book is dealing with the ramifications of that encounter. The chapters alternate from the points of view of the various main characters, so the book is very easy to follow. Both the setting of the story and the plot itself are extremely bleak. But don't let that put you off. The writing is uniformly excellent and I personally found the story to be very compelling, so I was hard pressed to put the book down. In fact, I just bought the author's second book The Son . tonight at the bookstore in the mall. ...more Le migliori occasioni In una Pennsylvania dove l'acciaio ha una potenza primitiva, nell'ora del declino crepuscolare di una civilt\u00e0 industriale ormai morente, Philipp Meyer ambienta una narrazione coinvolgente e realistica, che si sviluppa in una malinconica e tragica storia di riscatto e di evoluzione. Le avventurose relazioni tra i personaggi sono intessute di un amore disperato, in un luogo fuori del tempo dove l'unica via d'uscita \u00e8 perdere vincendo, ossia sacrificando qualcosa o qualcuno. No Le migliori occasioni In una Pennsylvania dove l'acciaio ha una potenza primitiva, nell'ora del declino crepuscolare di una civilt\u00e0 industriale ormai morente, Philipp Meyer ambienta una narrazione coinvolgente e realistica, che si sviluppa in una malinconica e tragica storia di riscatto e di evoluzione. Le avventurose relazioni tra i personaggi sono intessute di un amore disperato, in un luogo fuori del tempo dove l'unica via d'uscita \u00e8 perdere vincendo, ossia sacrificando qualcosa o qualcuno. Non c'\u00e8 giudizio morale n\u00e9 compiacimento esistenziale in queste pagine; si dispiega invece in uno stile genuino e originale una sequenza di eventi che ha la forma della rovina, dello scheletro e del relitto. Isaac e William Poe sono due amici antitetici (insicura intelligenza e sfiducia volenterosa), si pensano complementari e sono connessi intimamente, l'uno salva la vita dell'altro: dal ghiaccio, dalla lama di un pugnale, dalla giovent\u00f9, da un destino di sconfitta. Da quel momento l'agire e l'essere per questi due personaggi sono dimensioni plurali e molteplici, che affrontano il mondo con coraggio e concretezza, ma insieme con una sorta di poetica rassegnazione. Infatti, il passato li perseguita, con la sua eredit\u00e0 di catastrofi, la sfortuna e la disgrazia che li incatenano a un presente ripetitivo e omologato; il suicidio, la malattia e la scomparsa divengono un'orizzonte che regola il possibile, che lo confina in una angosciosa attesa, in un fallimento previsto. Quale caratteristica della sciagura e del disagio \u00e8 cos\u00ec attraente per questi personaggi, perch\u00e9 faticano cos\u00ec tanto a liberarsene? Solo cercando in se stessi un'immagine sconosciuta e temuta, solo producendo uno strappo e un danno permanente, riescono a ottenere una ricompensa, a fuggire dai propri demoni interiori; in ultimo, a riconoscere un limite e a dialogare con le periferie solitarie dell'animo. Sono le drammatiche e antiretoriche peripezie di due spostati, finiti ai margini di un mondo gi\u00e0 inadatto, e dei congiunti che li amano, discendenti di Twain, antagonisti sfavorevoli nella Monongahela Valley di Pittsburgh, la working class che cerca la terra promessa. Nel racconto c'\u00e8 azione e c'\u00e8 immedesimazione, \u00e8 un discorso di desolazione e destino, lotta tra desiderio e dovere, tra colpa e scelta, responsabilit\u00e0 e speranza. Non c'\u00e8 epica in questo romanzo, semplicemente buona narrativa, un'opera di valore che non specchiandosi in se stessa offre al lettore la possibilit\u00e0 di un'esperienza di lettura significativa. Del resto, tutti sono sopravvissuti, esseri solitari esiliati in un luogo ambiguo, remoto e illusorio, come una contraddittoria regione archeologica e spirituale. Decide di non mentire Meyer, non c'\u00e8 salvezza n\u00e9 redenzione al di l\u00e0 dell'oscurit\u00e0, del dolore e della violenza che determinano lo scioglimento, che legano i destini della comunit\u00e0 pi\u00f9 di ogni altro nobile valore, pi\u00f9 forti ed intensi del triste e inevitabile arrugginirsi del tempo. Insomma, in Ruggine americana sembra che siamo nati per vivere solo due volte. ...more A really magnificent first novel. From the opening scenes Meyer created a world where lives hover on a knife's edge of disaster. Poor choices and bad decisions land his characters in nasty situations any of us would have difficulty confronting. Readers have a sense of the big picture only because the author tells his story from many points of view. But he doesn't tell us the future before he is ready and it is with a sense of impending doom that we watch the story unfold to what we fully expect A really magnificent first novel. From the opening scenes Meyer created a world where lives hover on a knife's edge of disaster. Poor choices and bad decisions land his characters in nasty situations any of us would have difficulty confronting. Readers have a sense of the big picture only because the author tells his story from many points of view. But he doesn't tell us the future before he is ready and it is with a sense of impending doom that we watch the story unfold to what we fully expect will be its dreadful conclusion. This novel did not get nearly the attention it deserved when it was published in February this year. If I have any complaints at all it is merely that it contained more words than it needed. The characters are drawn with sensitivity and depth and the scenes have added details that crank the reader's sense of foreboding to high. I hope his publisher puts this work up front for promotion. It is said that men don't really read novels. If all novels were as good as this one, I think we'd see a lot more men among the converted. Black Flies (Shannon Burke, 2008) and The Dog Fighter: A Novel (Marc Bojanowski, 2005) are other examples of books I consider from a man's point of view. ...more I found this to be an engrossing first novel. Meyer has a different writing style than most authors. He captures the thoughts of the characters, it can change mid stream with no punctuation. I had no problem with this and thought it worked well for the story. The setting is an economically devastated Pennsylvania community in which the steel industry has collapsed. Times are tough, we get a good look at the socioeconomic and political pressures of the characters. We are introduced to two young me I found this to be an engrossing first novel. Meyer has a different writing style than most authors. He captures the thoughts of the characters, it can change mid stream with no punctuation. I had no problem with this and thought it worked well for the story. The setting is an economically devastated Pennsylvania community in which the steel industry has collapsed. Times are tough, we get a good look at the socioeconomic and political pressures of the characters. We are introduced to two young men, Isaac English and Billy Poe. Isaac is a small guy with a very high IQ, an introvert. Billy is a big guy, the high school football star. They both had difficult childhoods and have dreams of escaping for a better future. I thought the author did a good job of capturing the actions of how people, regardless of whether on the right or wrong side of law struggle morally with doing the right thing. I found some of the actions of Sheriff Bud Harris to be a bit unbelievable. Well done Mr. Meyers! I'm kicking myself for for not getting his second novel The Son when it was 2.99, I am loooking forward to reading it! ...more Why can't the crop of young American writers learn to write properly constructed literature? Fyodor Dostoevsky's take on the subject, for God's sake. When the sum total of someone's experiential modus operandi has involved cell phones, laptops, iPods, electronic devices, 24/7 cable TV, football half-time shows, virtual carnal knowledge, scanners, bar codes, reality TV, et al., to ad infinitum, then what can one really expect from such a cultural meltdown? My suggestion to the potential readers o Why can't the crop of young American writers learn to write properly constructed literature? Fyodor Dostoevsky's take on the subject, for God's sake. When the sum total of someone's experiential modus operandi has involved cell phones, laptops, iPods, electronic devices, 24/7 cable TV, football half-time shows, virtual carnal knowledge, scanners, bar codes, reality TV, et al., to ad infinitum, then what can one really expect from such a cultural meltdown? My suggestion to the potential readers of this book is to select books written by authors who wrote in other centuries if you desire to read quality fiction. American Rust needs to yellow and tatter and slowly disintegrate on the shelf. Trees sacrificed so that someone without much talent can make a lot of money. ...more That was a good contemporary piece of American literature which usually disappoints me. Debut novel by Philipp Meyer and what a promising beginning for a new writer! Set in an province of Pensylvania USA at late 90's the book focuses around the consequences of the economic collapse of local industry on people's life, of middle and low class in a small town. Such as misery, poverty, crisis of personality, despair, things that many times leading to violence and absolutely wrong decisions. So are t That was a good contemporary piece of American literature which usually disappoints me. Debut novel by Philipp Meyer and what a promising beginning for a new writer! Set in an province of Pensylvania USA at late 90's the book focuses around the consequences of the economic collapse of local industry on people's life, of middle and low class in a small town. Such as misery, poverty, crisis of personality, despair, things that many times leading to violence and absolutely wrong decisions. So are the characters of the book, most of them tragic figures, trying to survive in difficult situations and hope for a better living, but with almost wrong motivations. Meyer does not afraid to present in his book the dark side of American dream using a language with dry realism and uncomfortable but convincing scenes, lot of violence but holding the interest of the reader undiminished till the end. I enjoyed a lot the multiple voices he uses telling the whole story and he succeeds it very well giving the appropriate color in his text. I liked a lot the ending as well, it is very cinematic and intense, and although I was expecting it to be different, I enjoyed it. I read that he has influences by Cormac McCarthy, a writer that I admire so much, and this is quite obvious. I hope and wish even better books by him in future, I believe he has enough talent to show us, and I 'm gonna get his other book, \"The Son\" for sure. Well done Philipp Meyer. ...more Alguma vez vos aconteceu...? Ouvirem falar de algu\u00e9m de quem todos gostam. Algu\u00e9m, cujo encanto nos absorve e apaixona e ao qual ficamos irremediavelmente presos. De tal forma, que somos tomados de uma vontade irresist\u00edvel de conhecer essa pessoa e com ela desfrutar das prometidas maravilhas. Quando, finalmente, a encontramos e ela nos fala, nos conta os seus segredos, as suas hist\u00f3rias, somos tomados pelo desespero. Porque n\u00e3o entendemos, nem nos interessamos pelo que nos conta e porque nos aborre Alguma vez vos aconteceu...? Ouvirem falar de algu\u00e9m de quem todos gostam. Algu\u00e9m, cujo encanto nos absorve e apaixona e ao qual ficamos irremediavelmente presos. De tal forma, que somos tomados de uma vontade irresist\u00edvel de conhecer essa pessoa e com ela desfrutar das prometidas maravilhas. Quando, finalmente, a encontramos e ela nos fala, nos conta os seus segredos, as suas hist\u00f3rias, somos tomados pelo desespero. Porque n\u00e3o entendemos, nem nos interessamos pelo que nos conta e porque nos aborrecemos com o modo como o faz. Mas continuamos a ouvir, duvidando do nosso discernimento... Pois se todos gostam! E l\u00e1 vamos insistindo e aguentando, na esperan\u00e7a de que em algum ponto surja a magia que a tantos encantou. Quando, finalmente, termina o encontro, pouco nos fica al\u00e9m do amargo pensamento: \" Que se passa comigo? Porque n\u00e3o pude amar este ser t\u00e3o querido por todos?\" A mim j\u00e1 me aconteceu...! ...more A hist\u00f3ria de \u201cFerrugem Americana\u201d desenvolve-se com a ocorr\u00eancia de um acto violento e inesperado, que revela a crueldade de decis\u00f5es inconscientes e impensadas \u2013 condicionando directamente a vida presente e futura de Isaac e de Billy Poe. Num cen\u00e1rio americano de desintegra\u00e7\u00e3o econ\u00f3mica e social existe uma galeria de personagens, verdadeiramente inesquec\u00edveis com destaque para o pol\u00edcia Harris, que entre a marginalidade e a consci\u00eancia, promove a \u201csua\u201d justi\u00e7a, baseada em factores aparentement A hist\u00f3ria de \u201cFerrugem Americana\u201d desenvolve-se com a ocorr\u00eancia de um acto violento e inesperado, que revela a crueldade de decis\u00f5es inconscientes e impensadas \u2013 condicionando directamente a vida presente e futura de Isaac e de Billy Poe. Num cen\u00e1rio americano de desintegra\u00e7\u00e3o econ\u00f3mica e social existe uma galeria de personagens, verdadeiramente inesquec\u00edveis com destaque para o pol\u00edcia Harris, que entre a marginalidade e a consci\u00eancia, promove a \u201csua\u201d justi\u00e7a, baseada em factores aparentemente inexplic\u00e1veis. Um romance \u201cpolicial\u201d negro magistral entre o amor e o desespero. O romancista Philipp Meyer (n. 1974) revela uma mestria digna dos grandes autores americanos como John Steinbeck, Cormac McCarthy ou J.D. Salinger. Imperd\u00edvel. ...more I gave this book three stars for the literary value. I had trouble with it though, because the gratuitous sex bothered me. I guess, my prudishness can get in the way of books like this. Most Filipinos think that their relatives in the USA are better-off than them. Think again. The economy of the US has not really bottomed out yet. The continuous exodus of their jobs is still happening. Many Americans are losing their jobs because plants are closing down and being transferred to low-cost countries like China, India, Southeast Asian and Eastern Europe countries. Wherever it is cheaper to operate, they go. That is the backdrop of this novel. The first novel of Philipp Meyer, Americ Most Filipinos think that their relatives in the USA are better-off than them. Think again. The economy of the US has not really bottomed out yet. The continuous exodus of their jobs is still happening. Many Americans are losing their jobs because plants are closing down and being transferred to low-cost countries like China, India, Southeast Asian and Eastern Europe countries. Wherever it is cheaper to operate, they go. That is the backdrop of this novel. The first novel of Philipp Meyer, American Rust that won several awards last year: 1) Los Angeles Times Book Prize 2) Finalist for the New York Public Library's Young Lion Fiction Award 3) One of the Ten Best Books of 2009 by the Washington Post 4) \"Book of the Year\" by The Economist 5) New York Times Notable Book of 2009 6) One of Newsweek's \"Best. Books. Ever\" (July 2009) Not bad, huh? His writing is taut, clear, immediate, direct and thank God, non-melodramatic. Critics say that he is the next John Steinbeck (not surprising since American Rust is also about poor people leaving a place in USA in search of a greener pasture), William Faulker (because of his stream-of-consciousness inspired writing) or J. D. Salinger (because of his main characters - young adults with angst.) Given those reasons, I agree to all these. He deserved every accolade written by critics in the blurbs found in the book as well as in the web. The book is about Billy Poe , 21 and Isaac English who graduated from high school in a drying Pennsylvania steel town. Dying steel town. This means that the steel mills closed because they were not cost effective anymore and the owners relocated to Greece or Germany (according to the book). This was around the start of the millennium. In fact, one of the mills was blown up, by coincidence, when World Trade Center collapsed on 9/11. The parents of these newly grads could not afford to send them to school. However, Poe has a chance to enter college through sports scholarship and Isaac is a genius with an I.Q. of 167. He had the chance to follow his sister, Lee to Yale. However, both chose to stay in their town and do menial jobs. Reason: they could not leave their parents. Poe's mother, Grace , 41, is separated from his father and she has recently developed arthritis so she is finding it difficult to continue her job in a sewing factory while Isaac's father, Henry is a cripple having survived an accident while working in the steel mill. However, after more than a couple of years, Isaac changed his mind. He stole the rainy-day fund of his father and on his first leg, Poe joined him. That night, something happened that changed the course of the story. This is the part when the story became a bit dud (that's why I am giving this two stars less than amazing) because I thought the new Steinbeck, Faulkner and Salinger suddenly became a clone of John Grisham, James Patterson and Dean Koontz, whose works I find too commercial and formulaic, combined. Why? It suddenly became a crime story with improbable plot. The smart Isaac suddenly became stupid and committed blunders one after the other. The hunky athletic Poe almost got raped and suffered in the hands of his fellow inmates. Oh god! Stay on your seats Steinbeck, Faulkner and Salinger! Bottomline, I still like the book so I am giving it a 3-star. This still deserved its inclusion in the 1001 Books You Must Read Before You Die. Who knows, in his next work, Mr. Meyer will stay true to the works of the literary greats who inspired him and forget about being midstream or commercial. ...more This is a powerful and profound novel. The back cover blurb of the copy I have has a salutation from the UK Sunday Telegraph that reads: \"In racing terms its by Of Mice and Men , out of The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn , ridden by Cormac McCarthy , and trained by Salinger J.D and Jack Kerouac ......terrifically impressive\". Not bad for a debut novel. Set in the present in a small Pennsylvania milling town, this is the story of a group of people battling overwhelming economic and social woes. The ov This is a powerful and profound novel. The back cover blurb of the copy I have has a salutation from the UK Sunday Telegraph that reads: \"In racing terms its by Of Mice and Men , out of The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn , ridden by Cormac McCarthy , and trained by Salinger J.D and Jack Kerouac ......terrifically impressive\". Not bad for a debut novel. Set in the present in a small Pennsylvania milling town, this is the story of a group of people battling overwhelming economic and social woes. The overarching theme is what has happened twenty years on from Reagan's \"trickle down\" economic policies and America's descent from being a vibrant manufacturing and proud society into a Corporate Murdochacracy. This resonated deeply with me given Australia's current political, economic and social climate. The story revolves around high school friends Isaac and Poe. Isaac is the scientific dreamer trapped in his hometown caring for his father who was injured permanently by lax OH&S standards at the local mill which has since closed down. Isaac's older sister, Lee, managed to escape, graduating from Yale and marrying into a wealthy family in Connecticut. Poe was the high school football hero raised in a trailer on the outskirts of town by his world weary and beaten mother, Grace, and occasionally by his deadbeat loser father. The local sheriff, Harris (who, for mine is one of the truly admirable characters in literature) has had an on again, off again relationship with Grace for many years and has helped Poe through some legal scrapes in the past. Together Isaac and Poe try to escape this dying town and head to California. Shortly after leaving a terrible crime incident takes place that changes both their lives. The story then is about them and their families coming to terms with decisions they each have made and continue to make. Philipp Meyer expertly crafts his story by alternating the narrative between all the main characters; each chapter named after the character whose narrative drives that part of the story. Here he manages to combine an almost William Faulkner -like \"stream of consciousness style when Isaac is the narrator to channelling John Steinbeck in his sympathetic portrayal of his characters as they battle to come to terms with lives and destinies that they clearly have had no control over. This masterpiece should be required reading in any high school or uni literature, political or sociology degree courses. I can't recommend this highly enough. ...more For a book based on a great reality of our times, I found the characters to be completely unrealistic. The writing, from multiple characters points of view is muddled. How is it that so many people, who apparently don't communicate with one another at all, can have such identical, deeply profound thoughts? They are all thinking the same things about their home and times, yet when they communicate with one another, they aren't talking about anything, they are just cussing and then sleeping togeth For a book based on a great reality of our times, I found the characters to be completely unrealistic. The writing, from multiple characters points of view is muddled. How is it that so many people, who apparently don't communicate with one another at all, can have such identical, deeply profound thoughts? They are all thinking the same things about their home and times, yet when they communicate with one another, they aren't talking about anything, they are just cussing and then sleeping together. A little communication could have really kept Isaac and Poe out of a lot of trouble... Throughout the book, the characters thoughts are so thoroughly explored and yet the end just ends, leaving any resolution to the readers imagination. This would have been fine if it had been consistent with the rest of the story, but everything else was painted pretty clearly. I had an ARC and honestly wondered for a minute if my copy was missing the final pages. I couldn't put this book down while reading it. In maybe book five, I was reading a chapter from Grace's point of view and went \"wait a minute, Grace and Isaac are thinking the exact same thing! And Isaac has an IQ of 167 and Grace can't even see that her husband is a loser! Say it ain't so!\" And then the ending left me hanging. I did like it, but it could use a bit more refining. ...more Two young men from a dying Pennsylvania steel mill town are involved in a murder and its aftermath.....their desire to leave a hometown that offers no future...the ties of friendship and family that both strengthen and strangle..guilt and innocence, both in a legal and social sense...intensely dramatic...at times, the characters\u2019 interior monologues seem to go on forever but there is a method to the madness. i find the comparisons to Steinbeck a bit premature, but i see a lot of potential in Mr. Two young men from a dying Pennsylvania steel mill town are involved in a murder and its aftermath.....their desire to leave a hometown that offers no future...the ties of friendship and family that both strengthen and strangle..guilt and innocence, both in a legal and social sense...intensely dramatic...at times, the characters\u2019 interior monologues seem to go on forever but there is a method to the madness. i find the comparisons to Steinbeck a bit premature, but i see a lot of potential in Mr. Meyer\u2019s debut novel...shades of Pete Dexter (PARIS TROUT) and Russell Banks (RULE OF THE BONE) are strong this was not an easy read for me since i live not far from Western Pennsylvania...and if you swap Coal Mines for Steel Mills you do have the area where i live..in the late 70s-80s when the coal mines started to close. the characters in this book could be my neighbors and their grandsons..the voices in this book rang true for me, albeit painfully. i enjoyed this book and look forward to Mr Meyer\u2019s next effort this is a review of an ARC.... ...more There are a pile of really boneheaded reviews on here about this book. I'm still giving it three stars, but it doesn't deserve to be dragged through the mud just because some people don't understand innovative punctuation usage. Look, whether you agree with the moral overtones of the book or not, the story is compellingly told and utterly sincere. There is an awful lot of carping on these reviews about the book's supposed atheist overtones, which I admit are pretty strong, but I take that as a st There are a pile of really boneheaded reviews on here about this book. I'm still giving it three stars, but it doesn't deserve to be dragged through the mud just because some people don't understand innovative punctuation usage. Look, whether you agree with the moral overtones of the book or not, the story is compellingly told and utterly sincere. There is an awful lot of carping on these reviews about the book's supposed atheist overtones, which I admit are pretty strong, but I take that as a strength. How often do we read stories about downtrodden poor people who are ultra wrapped-up in God and guilt and paralyzed by inaction? Another reviewer mentions Dostoevsky. Specifically, I think this book is a lot like Dostoevsky's \"Demons,\" in that the mental sickness of murder and decay pervades the whole story. Just for once, I like the fact that the characters seem really wrapped up in their immediate concerns instead of thinking about the Great Beyond. Because, let's face it, how many of us DO actually think about God when we do something stupid? It's usually afterwords that the Spirit in the Sky makes an appearance in the form of our conscience (or the nagging inner voice that suits that purpose). So, kudos offered for a bold step into the reality of poor people in modern America, who don't always act the same as Dostoevsky's poor people. Get over it. I'd also like to offer kudos to Meyer for getting his characters and the whole setting dead on. I've been to some of the rust-shell of Pennsylvania (not specifically the Mon Valley, but nearby) and the book is pitch perfect. It makes you simultaneously aware and upset that this is happening not far from other places you know and love. And, there was a great sentiment expressed in this book that ought to be taken as a common truth. In various passages, in the guise of various characters, the narrator points out that a society in which the members can't be good at anything, decay is inevitable. Steelworkers making $30/hr gave way to janitors making $5.50. No dignity, no growth, no society. American Rust hammers home on these difficult realities for a solid 9/10 of the way through. The ending disappoints, but that's because Meyer pulls back from what might be the ultimate depths of tragedy to which he could let the story sink. Still, a resonant book. ...more When I first heard about this book, I thought it would be the average road trip novel, a glimpse of disillusioning the American Dream and a bit of coming of age for that skinny boy who is on the cover of the edition I bought. But what I found was very different and surprised me in a very positive way. American Rust is set in a fictional small town near Pittsburgh called Buell whose economic situation used to depend on the steel mills. But since the steel industry collapsed, the town has been dyi When I first heard about this book, I thought it would be the average road trip novel, a glimpse of disillusioning the American Dream and a bit of coming of age for that skinny boy who is on the cover of the edition I bought. But what I found was very different and surprised me in a very positive way. American Rust is set in a fictional small town near Pittsburgh called Buell whose economic situation used to depend on the steel mills. But since the steel industry collapsed, the town has been dying a slow and horrifying death. The only chance for one of the protagonists (Isaac, that skinny boy) seems to be running away from Buell with a pretty large sum of money he stole from his physically handicapped father. So he and his best friend Billy Poe pack their bags and take off for a long trip through the woods to somewhere-else-than-Buell until something shocking and unexpected happens that destroys all their plans (as well as my \"oh-it's-a-typical-road trip-novel\" expectations) and triggers off the main plot of American Rust. As it turns out, there are a lot more people who are affected by this than Isaac and Poe and Meyer presents a wide range of very authentic characters to the readers. These characters, some of them related to Isaac and Poe, some of them important personalities of Buell, take turns in narrating the chapters and give an insight into various problems that each of them have to cope with. Not only the young adults of the novel, but also the older generation depicted, struggle with the thoughts of oblivion that are inevitable in the town the novel is set in. And there's also that ambivalence of knowing your actions will be meaningless and forgotten at some point in the future and having to deal with the consequences of those same actions right now. Meyer addresses so many common problems but the range of characters and the way each of them copes with it is what makes the novel so special in my opinion. Teenage angst, identity crises, feeling the need for heroism and nobility in an environment that makes you feel like your whole existence is pointless and desperately trying to keep your own dignity and pride while giving up yourself for others in need. I'm not trying to say that any of these topics are groundbreaking and a revelation for the literary world, but Meyer succeeds in creating a very atmospheric novel that really makes you think about yourself and question your own actions in a way that literature is supposed to be. And what's more, his use of literary devices such as stream-of-consciousness is, in my opinion, absolutely stunning. It let's you leap over the wall of self (yes, yes, I stole that from DFW) and truly become the character in the book, it makes you leave your own world and identity for the time reading and identify with the characters in a way that I have only experienced with very few novels before. Maybe my opinion is only this positive because I expected something so very different from what I ended up reading, but I really think that this novel is worth giving it a try. I wish there would be more stars and a more sophisticated rating system on Goodreads, but I think 4,5/5 stars will do justice to American Rust. ...more Li este livro pouco tempo depois de ter lido O Cora\u00e7\u00e3o \u00e9 um Ca\u00e7ador Solit\u00e1rio da Carson McCullers e considerei o estilo dos autores bastante semelhante, bem como a tem\u00e1tica abordada. Em ambos \u00e9 retratada a recess\u00e3o, a desilus\u00e3o, as aspira\u00e7\u00f5es defraudadas. Quanto ao estilo, ambos acompanham os pensamentos de v\u00e1rias personagens em discurso directo. Deixo algumas das passagens de que mais gostei e que me deixaram a pensar. \u201cEle n\u00e3o percebia como o pa\u00eds poderia sobreviver assim a longo prazo; uma soci Li este livro pouco tempo depois de ter lido O Cora\u00e7\u00e3o \u00e9 um Ca\u00e7ador Solit\u00e1rio da Carson McCullers e considerei o estilo dos autores bastante semelhante, bem como a tem\u00e1tica abordada. Em ambos \u00e9 retratada a recess\u00e3o, a desilus\u00e3o, as aspira\u00e7\u00f5es defraudadas. Quanto ao estilo, ambos acompanham os pensamentos de v\u00e1rias personagens em discurso directo. Deixo algumas das passagens de que mais gostei e que me deixaram a pensar. \u201cEle n\u00e3o percebia como o pa\u00eds poderia sobreviver assim a longo prazo; uma sociedade est\u00e1vel necessitava de empregos est\u00e1veis, n\u00e3o havia volta a dar. A pol\u00edcia n\u00e3o podia resolver esses problemas. Os cidad\u00e3os com pens\u00f5es e seguro de sa\u00fade raramente roubavam os vizinhos, batiam nas mulheres ou fabricavam metanfetaminas nas suas cabanas de jardim. E, no entanto, toda a gente queria p\u00f4r as culpas na pol\u00edcia \u2013 como se o departamento pudesse ter maneiras de impedir que uma sociedade se desmoronasse. A pol\u00edcia tem de ser mais agressiva, diziam, at\u00e9 apanhares o filho deles a roubar um carro e lhe torceres o bra\u00e7o com um pouco mais de for\u00e7a \u2013 a\u00ed eras um monstro. Um violador dos direitos humanos. Queriam respostas f\u00e1ceis, mas n\u00e3o havia respostas f\u00e1ceis. Mantenham os vossos filhos na escola. Rezem para que essas empresas biom\u00e9dicas se mudem para aqui.\u201d p\u00e1g. 138 \u201cAos dezassete anos, escolhe-se uma escola com base na arquitectura bonita, ou porque um professor te sorriu, ou porque a tua melhor amiga est\u00e1 a ir para l\u00e1 \u2013 fazes escolhas com base nos sentimentos, que est\u00e3o condenados, especialmente nesta idade, a ser arbitr\u00e1rios e mal-informados e enraizados maioritariamente na inseguran\u00e7a\u201d p\u00e1g. 152 \u201c- Devias ter estado aqui nos anos setenta, Bud. O departamento andava a comprar carros novos talvez de tr\u00eas em tr\u00eas anos. E depois vieram os oitenta, e depois n\u00e3o foi apenas estarmos todos a perder o emprego, era o facto de as pessoas n\u00e3o terem nada em que pudessem ser boas. \u2013 Encolheu os ombros. \u2013 H\u00e1 um limite em rela\u00e7\u00e3o ao que podes aprender entre empurrar uma esfregona ou esvaziar uma arrastadeira. Estamos a andar para tr\u00e1s como na\u00e7\u00e3o, provavelmente pela primeira vez na Hist\u00f3ria, e n\u00e3o \u00e9 por causa dos mi\u00fados de cabelo verde e osso enfiado no nariz. Pessoalmente, n\u00e3o me preocupo com isso, mas aquelas coisas s\u00e3o inevit\u00e1veis. O verdadeiro problema \u00e9 o cidad\u00e3o n\u00e3o ter um trabalho em que possa ser bom. Perdes isso, perdes o pa\u00eds.\u201d p\u00e1g. 238 a 239 Do mesmo autor, tenho h\u00e1 alguns anos O Filho para ler, e com grandes expectativas, pois as cr\u00edticas foram excelentes. Philipp Meyer \u00e9, sem d\u00favida, um talentoso autor a seguir. ...more What happens to small Pennsylvania steel town after the steel mill shuts down? How do the people who once had a good life, with security and benefits, cope? American Rust deals with this: the American Dream, and its failure. What\u2019s interesting is that the characters in this book don\u2019t pine for the life that left them behind. Instead, they become resigned, they hope for nothing more. Take this quote, for example. \u201cHe had slept through life, let the currents take him. He had let the currents take h What happens to small Pennsylvania steel town after the steel mill shuts down? How do the people who once had a good life, with security and benefits, cope? American Rust deals with this: the American Dream, and its failure. What\u2019s interesting is that the characters in this book don\u2019t pine for the life that left them behind. Instead, they become resigned, they hope for nothing more. Take this quote, for example. \u201cHe had slept through life, let the currents take him. He had let the currents take him faster and faster and he had not noticed.\u201d The main conflict in American Rust comes from a murder; that alone is enough to suck you in and keep you turning the pages. There\u2019s more to it then that, though. Through a grisly (but somehow unsurprising) event in a small town, author Philipp Meyer explores blue collar America, and the (limited) ways out. There\u2019s football, and there\u2019s college, but neither are guarantees. Take, for example, Lee, a character who leaves for Yale. At one point in the book, she feels \u201can incredible isolation, a suspicion she'd always had, she didn't belong anywhere, she was going to outlive everyone she knew. She was going to be alone, the same as her mother. \u201d Which resonated with me, because I get it. I don\u2019t belong, either, in my small town, filled with the people who have settled for life the way it has been handed to them. But I also find it hard to fit in with the people who have hometowns worth going back to, populated with pleasant, educated people who are just like them. I can try to be one of them, and most of the time I fake it pretty well. But I have to try too hard. Eventually, people see right through me, down to the rural little girl who didn\u2019t dream much bigger than living closer to the ocean. The most liked quote from this book on Goodreads is the following \u201cYou ought to be able to grow up in a place and not have to get the hell out of it when you turn eighteen.\u201d Anyone who finds themselves nodding their head in agreement will connect deeply with this book. And anyone who doesn\u2019t should also read it, just to see how lucky they are. ...more Depressing but very compelling and intriguing is how i describe Phillip Myers dark tale of two friends Isaac and Billy longing for a better life in an area devastated by the economic meltdown. Along the way they encounter all manner of things including a violent incident that has the ability to destroy all there plans and their lives. The main themes displayed for me was the sheer bleakness of the environment with towns once thriving now full of closed down factories with decaying facade and bro Depressing but very compelling and intriguing is how i describe Phillip Myers dark tale of two friends Isaac and Billy longing for a better life in an area devastated by the economic meltdown. Along the way they encounter all manner of things including a violent incident that has the ability to destroy all there plans and their lives. The main themes displayed for me was the sheer bleakness of the environment with towns once thriving now full of closed down factories with decaying facade and broken dreams. The characters are themselves potrayed wonderfully and gives a compelling look at each ones consciousness both good and bad. Phillip Meyer has done a wonderful job With American Dream. Bleak, depressing but intriguing with the themes that are brought across including love and friendship. Dramatic and emotional Phillip has captured the sheer darkness of the situation and turned it into a plausible and believable story. ...more Probably 4.5 corroded stars. An amazing first novel that spins a web of American despair and desperation set in a degraded rust belt town that is still in the midst of the Fall. It is a novel of hard compromises, silent heros, and people that grind on every day knowing the sun for them will not rise tomorrow. This is a novel that narrates the things we all do to survive in a universe that is slowly growing cold. It is written for and about the people we rely on to survive, those we hurt and the Probably 4.5 corroded stars. An amazing first novel that spins a web of American despair and desperation set in a degraded rust belt town that is still in the midst of the Fall. It is a novel of hard compromises, silent heros, and people that grind on every day knowing the sun for them will not rise tomorrow. This is a novel that narrates the things we all do to survive in a universe that is slowly growing cold. It is written for and about the people we rely on to survive, those we hurt and the people we leave behind. American Rust is (and this is absolutely not original) like J.D. Salinger's Glass family had been taken from 1940s Manhattan and dropped unceremoniously into a Cormac McCarthy novel. I still can't get over the fact that this was a first novel. ...more This book is wonderfully visceral. The description is very meaty and really makes the setting come alive. What I like most is how Meyer juxtaposes the characters off of each other. The chapters present focuses from alternating characters' points of view, but Meyer doesn't alternate just to present a different take on the events of the novel. Rather, the characters develop in relation to each other. I felt not only the conflicts in the character in dealing with the events that occur, but the conf This book is wonderfully visceral. The description is very meaty and really makes the setting come alive. What I like most is how Meyer juxtaposes the characters off of each other. The chapters present focuses from alternating characters' points of view, but Meyer doesn't alternate just to present a different take on the events of the novel. Rather, the characters develop in relation to each other. I felt not only the conflicts in the character in dealing with the events that occur, but the conflicts between the characters- from differing sides. This really works to drive the novel on. It really engaged me. I found myself surprised that this is Meyer's first novel. ...more<---C>Philipp Meyer</---C>", "Title": "American Rust"},
