{"Comments": "<+++>The Round House</+++> is a knockout of a book. <---A>Louise Erdrich</---A> is one of the true deities in America's literary Olympus. With <+++>The Round House</+++> she has used her mythic creative powers to give us a book that can be read as a page-turner about a terrible crime, the attempt to identify the criminal and take action,<---M> or as a rich</---M>, layered look at a culture in a place and time, and a lad coming of age within it, the tale imbued with telling details, a colorful palette of imagery and cultural significance. Or be The Round House is a knockout of a book. Louise Erdrich is one of the true deities in America's literary Olympus. With The Round House she has used her mythic creative powers to give us a book that can be read as a page-turner about a terrible crime, the attempt to identify the criminal and take action, or as a rich, layered look at a culture in a place and time, and a lad coming of age within it, the tale imbued with telling details, a colorful palette of imagery and cultural significance.<---F> Or best of all, both</---F>. The story opens with a father and son trying to remove invasive tree roots from the foundation of their home. This being Erdrich, you can figure that roots of one sort and another will figure in the story. Antone Bazil Coutts, known as Joe, is thirteen years old. His father, also Antone Bazil, is a judge with great reverence for the law. When Joe\u2019s mother, Geraldine Coutts, is brutally beaten and raped she retreats into the security of solitude, not only to allow herself time to heal, but to try to protect her family, and others as well. The thrust of the story is the puzzle of who and why. Erdrich drops clues along the way like a seasoned writer of detective fiction. How we understand the world is informed by the stories we are told, the culture in which we are raised. Christians are raised on stories of magical abundance from a few loaves and fishes, reincarnation, angels, a sometimes communicative if often cranky, creator. A colorful local priest offers Christian teaching. Many of the Ojibwe we meet here have friends or relations who are believers. The Ojibwe have their legends too. Erdrich shows this by imbuing her tale with magical realism. Native lore is both told in stories and shown as living reality. This is a world in which the shadow of a passing crane becomes an angel on a bedroom wall, a world in which a twin feels the presence of a doppelganger, of her separated other, and in which the evil spirit, a wendiigoo , in a dark man seeks to devour the spirits of others. Ghosts figure in the story. Joe sees one. His father reports having seen ghosts as well. Mooshum, Joe\u2019s beloved grandfather, explains something about ghosts to Joe. Other characters as well report seeing ghosts or having their own other-worldly experiences. We see the Ojibwe affiliating with and being protected by various animals. Joe seeks guidance by visiting his clan totem, herons. Another tale is told of an Ojibwe being saved by a turtle. And an old bison communicates with one young brave in a legend. In addition family names include Larks and Coutts, and a town physician is Doctor Egge. I won\u2019t ask which came first. We see the events in Hoopdance, North Dakota, through Joe's eyes. Joe has a group of pals, most importantly his studly bff, Cappy. They see things through a more contemporary lens, Star Trek: The New Generation (TNG) , the series having begun less than a year prior. The boys\u2019 use of TNG stories, lore in this context, offers them meaningful language with which to define elements of their world. Of particular interest is the episode called Skin of Evil . Don\u2019t check it out until you are reading the book. The relevance will be immediately obvious. The boys\u2019 banter and relationships give the feel of a Stephen King story, one of those in which he particularly shines at portraying young people. Together with Native beliefs and Christian teaching, we have an unusual trinity of primary interpretive influences. What is the Round House? We learn it's history and generation from Mooshum. It is a meeting place and is supposed to be a safe haven, a building the Ojibwe, one in particular, were told to construct by a spirit. Religious ceremonies, among other events, take place there. And yet it has been violated, just as tree roots attempted to insert themselves in the foundation of Joe's house. We learn the story of the building\u2019s genesis, see it in benign contemporary use, and see it again, under less than benign circumstances. It is also situated in a location near where sundry jurisdictions intersect, Ojibwe, state, federal, the perplexity of which figures in the tale. There is a cornucopia of riches in Erdrich's construction. Joe's father's respect for the law is almost religious, and is mirrored by the knowledge of and contempt for the law expressed by the baddie. Native lore is compared to that of classic Greece. There are plentiful references made here that inform the story. Classics like the Iliad, Shakespeare, Plato and more recently, Dune , which resonates, with a young man taking on adult responsibilities. Bazil refers to his Handbook of Federal Indian Law as his bible. This compares with the priest and his actual Bible and Mooshum, Joe\u2019s grandfather, with his oral history and tribal spiritual beliefs. Is Bazil\u2019s belief in the law any more magical than Father Travis\u2019s belief in an eternal creator? Is Father Travis\u2019s belief in a resurrected savior any more out there than believing that one can communicate with an elderly bison? Clothing is used to great effect as well. When one key character is in the hospital, two relations don his clothing as a way of feeling close to him. A woman with a dicey past is shown to full effect by the costume she dons. After an infection of the spirit, a woman says that some Ojibwe women \u201cdressed me in a new ribbon dress they made. I started healing and felt even better.\u201d And the counterpart, nakedness, is also revelatory. Hiding away permeates, from Geraldine hiding in her home and inside herself, to Nanabush, a character in a story, hiding inside the carcass of a dead bison, to the genesis of the Round House as a physical manifestation of the bison\u2019s carcass, a safe place, a hideaway. Erdrich\u2019s work is imbued, not only with Native American characters, but with a look at Native reality on the ground, the buildings, the legal challenges, the extended family relations, in addition her use of magical realism. We are told of Native encounters with bison, turtles and cranes. We are also shown how Native people have been treated by the American legal system. That Joe\u2019s father has such long-term faith in the merits of the law is impressive, maybe inspirational and possibly sad. Her compelling story carries us along at a nice pace. We get to enjoy interesting travel companions on this journey, people we want to spend time with, particularly Joe, and while we are getting from here to there, (maybe on a shuttle craft?) we are treated to a fascinating look at things we might not have seen before, ideas we might not have encountered, history we might not have known. If you have read Erdrich before you know how good she is. If you have not read her before you are in for a treat. So if you get the urge to dash out and pick up a copy of The Round House all I can advise is make it so . You will definitely engage . PS \u2013 In case, for some reason, you do not want to jump to the provided link, here is a very spoilerish bit on the TNG episode noted above. (view spoiler) [ Skin of Evil is a Star Trek: New Generation story the boys refer to. In it a powerful, blob-like creature, torments several of the Enterprise crew, even killing one. An element of this being is that it feels terribly lonely, abandoned by its own kind. Here, Linden, our psycho killer, is the one who truly feels empty, which is ironic since he was the twin who was kept. His damaged sibling, Linda, has felt his presence all her life, and experiences emptiness, but never turned to such darkness. In the TNG episode, Armus, the baddy, was acting out of a feeling of abandonment. (Linden = wiindigoo = Armus) The twist here is that the child who was literally abandoned turned out to be a good person, while the one who was kept became a monster. (hide spoiler) ] ============================= EXTRA STUFF Washington Post book review by Ron Charles, October 2, 2012 NPR interview with Erdrich re Round House 10/10/12 - TRH is nominated for a National Book Award 11/15/12 - And the Winner is... 1/16/13 - Cathy Dupont's review offers not only her insightful take on the book but several excellent links that enhance our appreciation for some of the core issues raised by Erdrich. Check it out. ...more Louise Erdrich now has me as a fan, even though I've previously resisted reading her adult novels. There are two reasons for this: 1) As part of my Native American studies curriculum, I tried reading her children's book The Birchbark House to a class of second graders. It bored them to tears so I stopped reading the book aloud to them and abandoned it altogether. 2) Louise Erdrich was married to Michael Dorris, a professor/writer whose claim to Native American heritage was called into question. Louise Erdrich now has me as a fan, even though I've previously resisted reading her adult novels. There are two reasons for this: 1) As part of my Native American studies curriculum, I tried reading her children's book The Birchbark House to a class of second graders. It bored them to tears so I stopped reading the book aloud to them and abandoned it altogether. 2) Louise Erdrich was married to Michael Dorris, a professor/writer whose claim to Native American heritage was called into question. I'm still unsure if it's ever been proven whether or not he was authentically Native American. Dorris committed suicide after he and Erdrich divorced. Even though the latter is no wrongdoing of Erdrich's, I never really shook off the negative connection to Dorris. I picked up The Round House before it was crowned the National Book Award winner because it received rave reviews on goodreads and because my local independent bookstore was selling signed copies. Here's one instance in which my book buying addiction has served me well! Everything about The Round House was just right. Erdrich captures how an Ojibwe family carefully deals with the mother's violent rape. Even though thirteen-year-old Joe and his dad Bazil are angry and want to know who did this heinous crime, there's a calm thoughtfulness that is carried throughout the story. I attribute this quiet to the self-possessed nature that seems inherent in the Native culture. One of the most interesting characters for me is Linda Wishkob, a white woman who was adopted by an Ojibwe hopsital janitor after the doctor said she had a congenital deformity. Linda's birth parents decided to abandon her, taking only Linda's healthier twin brother Linden. The reader finds out that later as an adult, Linda is contacted by her birth mother because her twin needs a new kidney and that Linda is his only hope of being a good match. Linda's decision has a huge impact on how the story plays out and I love how Erdrich has given this control to a minor character. The Round House is not only about tragedy and justice. It also focuses on the strong friendship bonds of horny and goofy teenage boys who are also dealing with very grownup themes of religion, spirituality, culture, and sense of belonging. I highly recommend this novel and yes, I will be reading more books by Louise Erdrich! ...more There is obviously a lot of erudition about Native American lore, folkways and post-colonization history that went into this book. There is also clearly a lot of love put into the detailed recreation of life on a reservation in the 1980s. And there are also the bones of a classic coming of age story here, along with some memorable characters -- the randy foul-mouthed octagenarian grandparents, the quirky postmistress who was abandoned by her white family and is a rare \"adopted in\" Native America There is obviously a lot of erudition about Native American lore, folkways and post-colonization history that went into this book. There is also clearly a lot of love put into the detailed recreation of life on a reservation in the 1980s. And there are also the bones of a classic coming of age story here, along with some memorable characters -- the randy foul-mouthed octagenarian grandparents, the quirky postmistress who was abandoned by her white family and is a rare \"adopted in\" Native American, the fierce athletic priest etc. The problem is that the book feels flabby and bloated. There are a lot of detours, a few more characters than you can realistically keep track of (or care about), and one too many well meaning but ultimately dragging lectures on the Native American legal system and its relationship to white American law. Although nominally structured as a thriller, the novel has a notably leisurely pace. Thus, while I enjoyed almost all of it in an anecdotal pleasant kind of way, it never gripped me and forced me to turn pages. A solid 3. ...more A perfect novel to me, with Erdrich at the top of her game. Through several of her past books, she has a great track record in bringing to life a memorable line of characters in the Ojibwe tribe in North Dakota over different epochs of history. Here we get the vibrant portrait of a family on the reservation trying to recover from a brutal rape of the mother in 1988. The story is from the perspective of a 13 year old boy, Joe, with occasional overviews that reveal the fictional narrator is making A perfect novel to me, with Erdrich at the top of her game. Through several of her past books, she has a great track record in bringing to life a memorable line of characters in the Ojibwe tribe in North Dakota over different epochs of history. Here we get the vibrant portrait of a family on the reservation trying to recover from a brutal rape of the mother in 1988. The story is from the perspective of a 13 year old boy, Joe, with occasional overviews that reveal the fictional narrator is making sense of events from a point decades later. Joe is an only child of Bazil, a tribal judge, and Geraldine, who works as a clerk in the tribal office, which includes processing documentation of tribal membership. His parents try to spare him from clear knowledge of what happened to his mother. Their devastation undermines his supports from them, so he seeks more from the company of his three close friends and from his extended family of uncles and aunts and his grandfather. He slowly learns what rape means and about the location of the crime near the old and unused tribal council meeting place, the Roundhouse. His idolized father feels impotent because felony crimes by whites on the reservation fall into county and state jurisdiction, while if the crime was on neighboring federal land it falls to the FBI to investigate. Thus Joe is challenged to grow up fast. He begins to feel he must find the perpetrator and help bring him to justice. Past childish pursuits become transformed. Eavesdropping on adults as a form of fun becomes a compulsion to glean clues. His recourse in childish fantasies with his friends over roles of various characters from Star Trek The Next Generation fuels his quest to become a hero. The burgeoning of his own sexuality, sparked by fantasies about an aunt who once was an exotic dancer and the lusty joking and reminiscences of his grandfather and great aunt, is shadowed due to the rape. And his experimentation with alcohol with his buddies is not much fun given his sensitivity to its role in facilitating violence in so many families on the reservation. Another form of guidance for Joe derives from spirituality. The myths and ghosts that imbue the consciousness of most Ojibwe come alive in this story, and they provide a framework for the significance of Joe\u2019s quest and of the Roundhouse itself. Joe also seeks some guidance by asking the new priest, Father Travis, about what to do about evil in the world. It is unclear whether he sees platitudes or wisdom from his answer: The only thing God can do, and does all of the time, is to draw good from any evil situation. \u2026 Every time there is an evil, much good comes from it\u2014people in these circumstances choose to do an extra amount of good, become stronger in their devotion to Jesus, or to their favorite saint or attain an unusual communion of some sort in their families. Through the story, Erdrich is able to paint a wonderful portrait of the tribal community, of the strengths it gains from family and cultural traditions, and the resilience of its members in the face of poverty and the lingering burden of historical disenfranchisement and genocide. There is much joy and humor throughout the tale despite the dark theme of the impacts of an unprosecuted rape. Erdrich\u2019s ability to make you both laugh and cry is my signature of excellence in reading. In my view, she deserved the National Book Award for this effort. ...more I hate cilantro; even a tiny bit can ruin an otherwise wonderful dish. I mostly hate ghosts, mythology, dreams, religion, and political messages, and these topics all ruined an otherwise fine novel. I realize it\u2019s a long list of dislikes, but really, a novel should be all about character and plot development. The characters were sort of boring or too stereotypical, and the plot, though interesting, was too broken up for me to appreciate it. Okay, the main character, Joe, did struggle with the bi I hate cilantro; even a tiny bit can ruin an otherwise wonderful dish. I mostly hate ghosts, mythology, dreams, religion, and political messages, and these topics all ruined an otherwise fine novel. I realize it\u2019s a long list of dislikes, but really, a novel should be all about character and plot development. The characters were sort of boring or too stereotypical, and the plot, though interesting, was too broken up for me to appreciate it. Okay, the main character, Joe, did struggle with the big issues of shame and morality, and he was well-drawn, but I didn\u2019t really feel a whole lot for him (I might have been too annoyed at the author to have room to enjoy him much). I don\u2019t understand why a good writer feels the need to add ghosts (the novel loses its veracity immediately). Or why she forces me to listen to an unrelated little precious myth, or preaches about oppression, or adds a bunch of church scenes\u2014when all I really want is for her to finish telling me the story already! Pace is everything, and I resent the intrusions. Luckily I wasn\u2019t asked to edit this book or it would have ended up a very short novella. It feels lonely when everyone else seems to be gushing over this National Book Award winner, and I\u2019m fairly outraged that I got cheated out of a good read. I read Erdrich novels twenty years ago and liked them; this one didn\u2019t cut it. Either she has lost her touch or I\u2019ve become a way harsher critic. I can\u2019t believe I\u2019m giving Erdrich 2 stars, but I really didn\u2019t like the book. ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ First things first, yes I am going to use gifs even whilst reviewing a real modern day classic. Don\u2019t like it? Suck it. Okay. Now that that is out of the way let me ask you all a question: Are you a lunatic like me and sometimes actively seek out something in hopes that it will make you feel bad? If not, let me \u2018splain things. I was born with a bit of a deficiency . . . It takes a lot to make me have any emotion aside from happiness or Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ First things first, yes I am going to use gifs even whilst reviewing a real modern day classic. Don\u2019t like it? Suck it. Okay. Now that that is out of the way let me ask you all a question: Are you a lunatic like me and sometimes actively seek out something in hopes that it will make you feel bad? If not, let me \u2018splain things. I was born with a bit of a deficiency . . . It takes a lot to make me have any emotion aside from happiness or anger. The combo of a new position at work, Spring springing which equals a busier kid schedule and also snotty-faced allergy head for me, the time change effing with me for several days, and then OH NO MY PERIOD! other stuff that made me all . . . Had me looking for an excuse (in the form of paper) to mope around about. The only problem was the combo of all of the above made it take forever for me to get through this book. There\u2019s a real good chance this could have been 4 Stars (or on the flip side 2) if I would have been able to power right through it. But since I could not, a 3 is what it shall receive. The Round House started off great for me. There was the storyline I knew about that had drawn me to the book originally \u2013 that of a Native American mother who was brutally raped. (Since I\u2019m me that was the extent of my knowledge about this story before beginning.) I appreciated that there wasn\u2019t much mystery surrounding the identity of the bad guy and I really appreciated the mother\u2019s realistic reaction to the life-altering attack . . . Can\u2019t you get up? Can\u2019t you . . . come back to life? No, she said immediately, as if she\u2019d thought about this too. I can\u2019t do it. I don\u2019t know why. I just cannot do it. (That\u2019s probably the part where normal people cry, but alas I am a robot and had zero feelings.) I also loooooooooooove a good coming of age story and Joe\u2019s narration most definitely brought that to the table. I didn\u2019t even mind the lack of punctuation (since I suck at punctuation it makes me feel better about myself when authors eliminate it altogether). But then the story went from simply adding in some additional plot points or twists and ended up getting a bit too far off the rails for me. Obviously the whodunit it had to be explained, along with the why \u2013 but I really didn\u2019t need to get sidetracked with Native American folklore or a million and one ancillary characters and their personal histories. I wanted Joe and his friends' story. Period. Once I started hearing about Linda and the priest and Mooshum and on and on I was like . . . I\u2019m sure I read it wrong. After all it won the National Book Award and errrrryone knows awards are never handed out to anything other than books which should be 5 Starred by the entire universe. I'll stick to Sherman Alexie stories from now on if I'm looking for Native America coming of age. EDIT: To give credit where credit is due. I grabbed this from the library after reading Erica's review a few days ago. Just note that she usually does an even worse job than me at reading things right (if you can imagine), so take her 5 Stars with a grain of salt : ) ...more Told from the perspective of a 13 year old Indian boy in 1988, it is the story of how the brutal rape of his mother effects his life, the life of his family and his community. A New York Times best seller, many must find this book compelling, however I found the writing tedious and had a hard time finishing. What a powerful book. On two successive nights this week I woke suddenly, yelling out in fright. In my dreams I was moments away from becoming the victim of a horrific assault. Shaken, I turned on the light, shifting uncomfortably in sheets soaked in my sweat, and I reached for The Round House . Louise Erdrich\u2019s profound novel haunted my dreams and moved me to tears and laughter in my waking hours. Geraldine Coutts, an Ojibwe living on a reservation in North Dakota, doesn\u2019t escape from her nightmare. On a gentle spring On two successive nights this week I woke suddenly, yelling out in fright. In my dreams I was moments away from becoming the victim of a horrific assault. Shaken, I turned on the light, shifting uncomfortably in sheets soaked in my sweat, and I reached for The Round House . Louise Erdrich\u2019s profound novel haunted my dreams and moved me to tears and laughter in my waking hours. Geraldine Coutts, an Ojibwe living on a reservation in North Dakota, doesn\u2019t escape from her nightmare. On a gentle spring Sunday in 1988 her thirteen year old son Joe and her husband Bazil, a tribal judge, peel her fingers from the steering wheel of her car and speed her unyielding body to the hospital. The front of her shirt is covered in vomit and she reeks of gasoline. Raped\u00a0and nearly burned alive, Geraldine escaped when her captor went in search of matches. Geraldine\u2019s physical wounds heal in time, but the spirit of this proud, vibrant woman is crushed. She tumbles into depression, refusing to leave her bedroom, barely eating, escaping her terror through the false protection of sleep. The Round House opens with this crime and it becomes the incident which ushers Joe, the novel\u2019s narrator, out of the smooth waters of his childhood into the murky depths of maturity. The Round House is more than a coming-of-age story. The novel has many layers, each beautifully rendered in language that is so pure it belies the complex\u00a0themes. The search for Geraldine\u2019s attacker propels the narrative and in this, it is a tense literary thriller. It is an exploration of tribal law and the protracted effort by the federal government to chip away at Native American sovereignty. Tribal political and judicial limbo is a chord that resonates throughout Erdich\u2019s works, yet when told through the perspective of a child it becomes the character\u2019s discovery of his legacy and not the political agenda of the author. It is a novel rich with history, mythology and adventure. But more than these themes, this is a novel of family. The\u00a0tight union of Bazil, Geraldine and Joe forms the familial core.\u00a0Erdrich\u2019s portrait of a strong woman collapsing dug so deeply under my skin \u2013 this cold reality was the source of my nightmares. But the ways a husband and a son respond to the woman they love as she falls apart, how hard they work to lift her up and save her, are heartfelt and poignant. Erdrich captures each character\u2019s emotions and reactions in vivid and graceful detail. The theme of family extends through the tribal community. Erdrich reveals daily life on a reservation. She shows us what we think we know: the poverty and alcoholism on the inside, the marginalization and racism from the outside. But she also conveys a sense of community that few of us will ever experience, no matter how idyllic our childhood. Within the tribe everyone belongs to everyone else \u2013 the definition of family is not limited to blood relations. The communal responsibility demonstrates a solid\u00a0foundation built on shared history and beliefs. Despite the violent crime that churns the plot, there many moments of levity and sweetness in The Round House The novel\u2019s comic foil is Mooshom, Joe\u2019s ancestor and tribal elder. And I do mean elder. He\u2019s entering his second century as salty as a sailor and with libido to spare. The many scenes Joe shares with his besties Cappy, Angus and Zack are ripe with thirteen year old boy hormones, antics and tenderness. I can\u2019t sing loudly enough my praises for The Round House . I also can\u2019t believe this is the first Louise Erdrich novel I\u2019ve read. It has been a year of celebrated-American author discoveries for me: Terry Tempest Williams, Cormac McCarthy, Louise Erdrich, not to mention the astonishing debut of Amanda Coplin ( The Orchardist ). That they are each deeply connected to the American West is significant to me as a reader. Through their words I have developed a deeper understanding, love and compassion for my enormous and complex backyard. ...more With many thanks to my friend, Will Byrnes, I read The Round House and while stingy with five stars, this book was without question, five stars. If I could give it more, I would. I had prior knowledge of the problem of crimes against women on U. S. Indian Reservations specifically the inability of determining jurisdiction of areas, adding to the fact (due to a U.S. Supreme Court ruling) that on the reservation, non-Indians cannot be charged with crimes committed on Indian reservations, so I wasn\u2019 With many thanks to my friend, Will Byrnes, I read The Round House and while stingy with five stars, this book was without question, five stars. If I could give it more, I would. I had prior knowledge of the problem of crimes against women on U. S. Indian Reservations specifically the inability of determining jurisdiction of areas, adding to the fact (due to a U.S. Supreme Court ruling) that on the reservation, non-Indians cannot be charged with crimes committed on Indian reservations, so I wasn\u2019t surprised with the storyline, actually two intertwining storylines, both of which were exceptional. Some facts on crimes against women on U. S. Indian reservations: \u2022\tNative women suffer violent crime at the highest rates in the country. \u2022\tOn many reservations, Native women are murdered at a rate more than 10 times the national average. \u2022\tViolent crime rates in Indian Country are more than 2.5 times the national rate; some reservations face a rate 20 times higher.* August 23, 2012 \u201cEarly this week, two U.S. House Representatives members and the Tacoma News Tribune took clear stands against protecting women from sexual assault. Representatives Todd Akin, R-Missouri, and Steve King, R-Iowa, did so by promoting the concept of \u201clegitimate rape.\u201d The News Tribune did so by attacking the only real hope for combating the national pandemic of violence against Native women.\u201d (Later in the story, then VP candidate Paul Ryan voted to omit the tribal protections.)* * http://crosscut.com/2012/08/23/gender... As a nation, what is wrong with us, this continued injustice? My brief review Louise Erdrich successfully blended dialog, scenery and storylines into two related and life changing events; the rape of a wife and mother and the \u2018coming of age\u2019 for her son, Joe. The Ojibwe reservation is where the mother, Geraldine helps women on the reservation, the father, Bazil, a tribal judge and the story as told by their 13 year old, Joe. Geraldine, the woman, is brutally raped and afterward without telling anything about the assault, goes into self-imposed seclusion leaving Joe and his father, rudderless. Joe and his two devoted friends support him in his efforts to try to determine who was responsible for changing his life so quickly and dramatically. They want to make it right again. For an in depth and superb review, my friend Will Byrnes The Round House offers the best. After reading Will\u2019s review you will surely call or go to your library or bookstore get the book, put down what you\u2019re reading and begin an unforgettable journey delivered by Louise Erdrich and enhanced only by Will's review. Further links to the subject of crimes against women on U. S. Indian reservations: From Indian Law Resource Center http://www.indianlaw.org/safewomen/vi... Futures without Violence - Violence Against Women ** ** \u201cThe confusing division of authority among tribal, federal and state governments results in a jurisdictional maze that is complicated by the lack of tribal courts\u2019 criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians, the practical impact of Public Law 280, and other limitations on tribal criminal jurisdiction.\u201d While Aljazeer is certainly a controversial news organization, curiously enough this was the very most comprehensive fact, figures and videos about violence against women on United States Indian Reservations. Justice Denied ##### NT Times Native Americans Struggle With Reservation Rape article, May 22 , 2012 ...more I still haven't forgiven Louise Erdrich for The Crown of Columbus , that turd of a book she wrote with her then-husband, Michael Dorris . National Book Award winner, or not, quite honestly, I only read this one because I needed a book set in North Dakota for my Reading the 50 States challenge. I was actually fine with the main storyline of how a mother's brutal rape affects the entire family, UNTIL Erdrich began introducing minor characters with stories to tell that were far richer and more compel I still haven't forgiven Louise Erdrich for The Crown of Columbus , that turd of a book she wrote with her then-husband, Michael Dorris . National Book Award winner, or not, quite honestly, I only read this one because I needed a book set in North Dakota for my Reading the 50 States challenge. I was actually fine with the main storyline of how a mother's brutal rape affects the entire family, UNTIL Erdrich began introducing minor characters with stories to tell that were far richer and more compelling than the \"big\" plot. Then, I realized I'd much rather be reading about THESE people. I wanted the book to be about Mooshum, the ancient man who relates magical fables in his sleep, Grandma Ignatia with her raunchy tales of her sexual past, or Linda Wishkob, the unattractive, adopted twin who donates a kidney to her undeserving brother. They were all more interesting than Joe and his parents, and I was annoyed I had to spend time with them when there were all these other, more colorful characters around. On a side note, this title will forever have the rather dubious distinction of being the book that convinced me that I need to watch Star Trek: The Next Generation . If that show is now going to be the source of literary references, then dammit, I've got to watch it. Look out, Worf. Here I come. ...more I was in a rush to finish this tonight before the National Book Award winner was announced, and I got to the last page right as the ceremony was starting. It ended up winning this year's award, so I'm glad I chose this novel to read over the other two I didn't get to. In an Ojibwe community, a mother is brutally raped. The novel is told from her son's perspective as their family tries to heal and they attempt to catch who did this horrible thing. Most of it is told in the time of the story, but o I was in a rush to finish this tonight before the National Book Award winner was announced, and I got to the last page right as the ceremony was starting. It ended up winning this year's award, so I'm glad I chose this novel to read over the other two I didn't get to. In an Ojibwe community, a mother is brutally raped. The novel is told from her son's perspective as their family tries to heal and they attempt to catch who did this horrible thing. Most of it is told in the time of the story, but occasionally the son steps back and sprinkles in details of things that happen in his adult life, such as his marriage and his career. You know his friend doesn't last into his adulthood before you know how or why he dies. Overall, I feel this novel suffers a bit in its storytelling techniques. The story goes along rapidly, very action focused, until around page 115 where you take a side trip to one person's background story. This happens a few more times, but not often enough for it to flow easily in and out the narrative. They serve a specific purpose to give the son details he needs, but I felt they were a little forced. The novel also reads so easily that it is almost to its detriment. I fear I may not remember it for very long. There are a lot of surrounding issues - Native American vs. American law, jurisdiction issues, poverty, inequality, etc. The author knows them well. I would like to read more of her books, and plan to next year when I do the Around the USA in 52 Books challenge. ...more This is a wonderful, moving book, I'm sure it will be one of my reading highlights this year. Picked it up at Newark airport last January. Great, interesting and fascinating story, variety of great and weird characters, a bit of surreal supernatural woven in, insights into the culture, traditions and life on an Indian reservation, the love of family and friends, a coming of age story which made me think a bit of Stand By Me. It's the story of Joe, 13 years old, living on an Indian reservation in This is a wonderful, moving book, I'm sure it will be one of my reading highlights this year. Picked it up at Newark airport last January. Great, interesting and fascinating story, variety of great and weird characters, a bit of surreal supernatural woven in, insights into the culture, traditions and life on an Indian reservation, the love of family and friends, a coming of age story which made me think a bit of Stand By Me. It's the story of Joe, 13 years old, living on an Indian reservation in North Dakota, whose mother is brutally attacked. The family situation changes overnight and is desperate. The mother in shock only stays in her bedroom, the father, a tribal judge, does not know what to do, and Joe wants to find the attacker. He sets off with his friends Cappy, Zack and Angus to investigate. I stayed up late last night to finish the book, just could not stop. Highly recommended. ...more Spring 1988. A woman is attacked and brutally raped somewhere in the Indian reservation. Joe, the thirteen-year-old son of Geraldine Coutts experienced the shock, horror and drama of his mother's condition when he and his father, Bazil, the tribal judge rushed her off to hospital. Geraldine's only way of recovering was to shut herself up in a shell of silence and darkness, while the young boy struggled to grow up before the sun rose the next morning. Together with his father, and his best friend Spring 1988. A woman is attacked and brutally raped somewhere in the Indian reservation. Joe, the thirteen-year-old son of Geraldine Coutts experienced the shock, horror and drama of his mother's condition when he and his father, Bazil, the tribal judge rushed her off to hospital. Geraldine's only way of recovering was to shut herself up in a shell of silence and darkness, while the young boy struggled to grow up before the sun rose the next morning. Together with his father, and his best friends, Cappy, Zack and Angus, he tried to find answers for adult challenges he is not grown-up enough yet to handle. His transformation from young boy to adult was suddenly inevitable and the consequences unforeseen. COMMENTS I've been holding out on this book for far too long. It was one of those experiences which will stay with me for a long time. The writing was terrific. The suspense in the book was way too drawn out since so many cultural and traditional aspects of the Indian reservation near Bismarck in North Dakota was worked into the plot. However, the characters, stories and myths added such a richness to the tale, that the book would have been a lot poorer without it. The setting was beautiful, and sharing Jo's journey through his discovery of life, unforgettable. I don't want to say too much about this book. It is not a YA read. Not at all. It is just one of those reads that left me sad when I finally closed it. I felt so embedded in the story. So part of the community who formed a circle around the effected and traumatized family. I love this author's work. This is my first encounter with Louise Erdrich and I would really like to follow it up with some of her other books. RECOMMENDED ...more Maybe it's my age (68). Maybe it's a peculiar idiosyncrasy that I am unable to tolerate ANY passages in a novel that seem to be aimed at teaching me something. I do like to be taught. But in a novel, any teachings have to be cleverly disguised, and just sort of snuck into the plot. Maybe all that I learned about the Chippewa in North Dakota, and the injustices they and other Native groups face from our country's stupid fractured legal system, and life on the reservation--maybe that learning deser Maybe it's my age (68). Maybe it's a peculiar idiosyncrasy that I am unable to tolerate ANY passages in a novel that seem to be aimed at teaching me something. I do like to be taught. But in a novel, any teachings have to be cleverly disguised, and just sort of snuck into the plot. Maybe all that I learned about the Chippewa in North Dakota, and the injustices they and other Native groups face from our country's stupid fractured legal system, and life on the reservation--maybe that learning deserves 4 or 5 stars. However, I can only give this 3 stars, because of the passages in this novel that felt like I was being taught something. I only wanted to stay with the storyline, the main plot, and the main characters. About half way through, I began to sort of skim through the teaching passages, and other passages that did not seem germane to the storyline. Also, as the mother of four boys, (POSSIBLE SPOILER HERE)--I could not picture my 13-year-old boys acting in the ways that a couple of them did in this novel. Did not seem plausible. But then, our family did not have to face what the family in The Round House had to face, and also, we did not live on a reservation. On the plus side--I very much enjoyed the story, and will not be forgetting it and some of the characters any time soon. ...more Recht versus Gerechtigkeit \"Eine beeindruckende menschliche Geschichte\". Erdrich dringt in den dunkelsten Winkel eines Menschen und so zum Grund der Wahrheit \u00fcber eine ganze Gemeinschaft vor.\" Der 13-j\u00e4hrige Joe und seine drei Freunde Cappy, Zack und Angus f\u00fchren ein unbeschwertes Leben in einem Reservat in North Dakota. Eines Tages wird Joes Mutter Geraldine Opfer eines brutalen \u00dcbergriffs, bei dem sie sich in letzter Minute retten kann. Schwer traumatisiert und depressiv verl\u00e4\u00dft sie ihr Zimmer n Recht versus Gerechtigkeit \"Eine beeindruckende menschliche Geschichte\". Erdrich dringt in den dunkelsten Winkel eines Menschen und so zum Grund der Wahrheit \u00fcber eine ganze Gemeinschaft vor.\" Der 13-j\u00e4hrige Joe und seine drei Freunde Cappy, Zack und Angus f\u00fchren ein unbeschwertes Leben in einem Reservat in North Dakota. Eines Tages wird Joe\u00b4s Mutter Geraldine Opfer eines brutalen \u00dcbergriffs, bei dem sie sich in letzter Minute retten kann. Schwer traumatisiert und depressiv verl\u00e4\u00dft sie ihr Zimmer nicht mehr, verweigert die Nahrung. Erst als sie erkennt, dass dieser Mann auch f\u00fcr andere eine Gefahr darstellt, bricht sie ihr Schweigen. Sie kann zwar den T\u00e4ter benennen, wei\u00df aber nicht genau, wo es passiert ist. Das stellt ein Problem dar, denn die Indianerreservate sind in verschiedene Territorien aufgeteilt mit unterschiedlichen Zust\u00e4ndigkeitsbereichen. Auch Joe\u00b4s Vater, einem Richter sind die H\u00e4nde gebunden. Der T\u00e4ter kommt wieder auf freien Fu\u00df. Da beschlie\u00dft Joe, der gro\u00dfe Angst um seine Mutter hat, die Sache selbst in die Hand zu nehmen. Ein anderes gro\u00dfes Thema ist die Sexualit\u00e4t. Sowohl in der Pubert\u00e4t als auch im Alter wird dieses Thema sensibel und voller Humor enttabuisiert. Nebenbei erf\u00e4hrt man viel \u00fcber die Spiritualit\u00e4t und Traditionen der Indianer. Das Buch hat neben seiner Tiefe eine gewisse Leichtigkeit. Es kommt Freude auf beim Lesen. Einziger Knackpunkt des Buches ist der Schluss, der meines Erachtens nicht so gut gegl\u00fcckt ist. Den erhobenen moralischen Zeigefinger aufgrund einer Selbstjustiz und ein zus\u00e4tzliches Opfer h\u00e4tte es nicht gebraucht. Insgesamt tut es jedoch dem Lesevergn\u00fcgen keinen Abbruch. Und ich war oftmals sehr vergn\u00fcgt.:) Vielen Dank, Frau Erdrich, f\u00fcr \"Mooshum\". Mann, hat mir der gefallen. Mooshum, bekanntlich so um die 100 Jahre alt wollte sich von Stripperin Sonja ins Jenseits hin\u00fcbersexen lassen. Er wollte einen sch\u00f6nen Tod und hat sich gedacht, dass ihm vielleicht das Herz stehenbleibt bei einem Wahnsinns-Strip von Sonja. Hat gl\u00fccklicherweise nicht geklappt. :) English review follows. English edition: THE ROUND HOUSE ...more Easily the best book I've read in 2012. So good that I'm writing my first review. The Round House is beautiful, sobering, and heartbreaking, yet manages some humorous moments as well. At its surface, this book is about a rape committed on an Ojibwe reservation, the aftermath of this brutality. At its heart, it is about what we call \"soul wounds\", redemption, the abiding love a boy has for his mother, the coming of age of a boy whose life is defined by one tragic event, and the sad truth of how p Easily the best book I've read in 2012. So good that I'm writing my first review. The Round House is beautiful, sobering, and heartbreaking, yet manages some humorous moments as well. At its surface, this book is about a rape committed on an Ojibwe reservation, the aftermath of this brutality. At its heart, it is about what we call \"soul wounds\", redemption, the abiding love a boy has for his mother, the coming of age of a boy whose life is defined by one tragic event, and the sad truth of how powerless the government has rendered tribes all over this country. It is a fictional story, based on the stark reality that 1 in 3 Native women on reservations will be raped in their lifetime (probably more, considering that sexual crimes are usually under-reported), 86% of the perpetrators are non-Native men who are rarely prosecuted or punished, and for these women, there is no clear path to justice (non-Natives cannot be prosecuted by tribal governments, which leads to predators preying with impunity). Considering Congress' failure to allow the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (new amendments would allow tribes to prosecute non-Native people who commit violent crimes on tribal land) to come to a vote, it couldn't have come at a better time. ...more Don't you Indians have your own hospital over there? It's 1988 and Joe and his father have brought his grievously injured mother to the hospital. He doesn't evade his interlocutor's gaze; his mother has taught him how to respond when such sentiments break out. There has been a crime. But because this is a reservation and because the location of the scene of the crime isn't clear, the perpetrator walks. His mother has been devastated. His idolized father, a tribal judge, is suddenly stripped of s Don't you Indians have your own hospital over there? It's 1988 and Joe and his father have brought his grievously injured mother to the hospital. He doesn't evade his interlocutor's gaze; his mother has taught him how to respond when such sentiments break out. There has been a crime. But because this is a reservation and because the location of the scene of the crime isn't clear, the perpetrator walks. His mother has been devastated. His idolized father, a tribal judge, is suddenly stripped of superhero status in the son's eyes and reduced in his estimation to overseeing trivial matters. Eventually his father, using a rotten casserole from the back of the fridge as a prop, explains what is hanging in the balance. He pointed to the bottom of the composition and lifted his eyebrows at me. Uh, rotten decisions? You've been into my dad's old Cohen Handbook . You'll be a lawyer if you don't go to jail first. He poked at the fuzzy black noodles. Take Johnson v. McIntosh . It's 1823. The United States is forty-seven years old and the entire country is based on grabbing Indian land as quickly as possible in as many ways as can be humanly devised. Land speculation is the stock market of the times. Everybody's in on it. George Washington. Thomas Jefferson. As well as Chief Justice John Marshall, who wrote the decision for this case and made his family's fortune. ... It wasn't the decision itself that still stinks, though, it was the obiter dicta, the extra incidental wording of the opinion. Justice Marshall went out of his way to strip away all Indian title to all lands viewed--i.e., \"discovered\"--by Europeans. He basically upheld the medieval doctrine of discovery for a government that was supposedly based on the rights and freedoms of the individual. Marshall vested absolute title to the land in the government and gave Indians nothing more than the right of occupancy, a right that could be taken away at any time. Even to this day, his words are used to continue the dispossession of our lands. But what particularly galls the intelligent person now is that the language he used survives in the law, that we were savages...and to leave our land to us was to leave it useless wilderness.... Okay, Dad, I said, quieted. How come you do it? How come you stay here? The casserole was starting to ooze and thaw. My father arranged the odd bits of cutlery and knives so they made an edifice that stood by itself. He had suspended Mom's good knives carefully.... These are the decisions that I and many other tribal judges try to make. Solid decisions with no scattershot opinions attached. Everything we do, no matter how trivial, must be crafted keenly. We are trying to build a solid base for our sovereignty. We try to press against the boundaries of what we are allowed, walk a step past the edge. Our records will be scrutinized by Congress one day and decisions on whether to enlarge our jurisdiction will be made. Some day. We want the right to prosecute criminals of all races on all lands within our original boundaries. (pp. 228-230) But in the meantime Joe sees that his family will not recover while living in fear. It has fallen to him to make the necessary adjustments, or so it seems. With a little help from his friends. We know he's survived the events of his thirteenth year because he's narrating as an adult looking back. Thank goodness Louise Erdrich tells us that much, or how would we survive the suspense? Why are the best writers like this? Why do these outrages happen in their books? Why do they happen? And how do they simultaneously splice the trauma with the beauty and humor? We had this on audio for a car trip. We made it all the way to the ninth of ten discs by the time we got home, and the miles rolled by. The narrator doesn't add to the book but he doesn't detract from it either. I worried I might not like this book because of the several of hers I'd read I only liked The Master Butchers Singing Club . But never fear, The Round House is phenomenal. It fully deserves its 2012 National Book Award. Addendum: Here is a very long interview with the author from 2010, The Paris Review . I haven't even finished reading it, but it's a good one. http://www.theparisreview.org/intervi... I like this quote from the interview, which somebody has put up as being a quote from the book. (Maybe it's also in the book): Of course, English is a very powerful language, a colonizer\u2019s language and a gift to a writer. English has destroyed and sucked up the languages of other cultures\u2014its cruelty is its vitality. ...I've read further in that Paris Review interview, and it's wonderful and hilarious. I can't put up all the quotes! ...more The National Book Award Winner for Fiction (2012) My rating: 3.5 of 5 stars A copy of The Round House was provided to me by Harper Collins for review purposes. 'The sun fell onto the kitchen floor in golden pools, but it was an ominous radiance, like the piercing light behind a western cloud.' In 1988, thirteen year old Joe is forever changed when he and his father come home to find his mother covered in blood. She had been attacked, but she managed to get away to safety. Joe is unable to understand The National Book Award Winner for Fiction (2012) My rating: 3.5 of 5 stars A copy of The Round House was provided to me by Harper Collins for review purposes. 'The sun fell onto the kitchen floor in golden pools, but it was an ominous radiance, like the piercing light behind a western cloud.' In 1988, thirteen year old Joe is forever changed when he and his father come home to find his mother covered in blood. She had been attacked, but she managed to get away to safety. Joe is unable to understand the difficulty behind getting a conviction even though his mother knows exactly who attacked her. The root of the problem lies in not knowing exactly where she was attacked. The approximate location is an area that happens to be so divided that tribal, federal, and state all claim ownership to various pieces. Since the exact location is unknown her attacker can't be prosecuted if its unclear as to what laws would apply. The story was told from the point-of-view of Joe, a teenager, and one having a hard time coming to terms with the changes his life is currently undergoing. He begins drinking and smoking with his friends more often and being a generally rebellious teen. Joe's mother wasn't the only one forever transformed from the attack, his transformation was just less obvious to others. 'We read with a concentrated intensity. My father had become convinced that somewhere within his bench briefs, memos, summaries, and decisions lay the identity of the man whose act had nearly severed my mother's spirit from her body. With all that we did, we were trying to coax the soul back into her. But I could feel it tug away from us like a kite on a string. I was afraid that string would break and she'd careen off, vanish into the dark.' Joe's father is a local tribal judge and shortly after the attack he begins bringing case documents home for research purposes and enlists Joe's help. He becomes dismayed to find that his father didn't handle cases of great importance but rather small and petty cases that seemed more like a waste of time. His father explains to him: \"We are trying to build a solid base here for our sovereignty. We try to press against the boundaries of what we are allowed, walk a step past the edge. Our records will be scrutinized by Congress one day and decisions on whether to enlarge our jurisdiction will be made. Some day. We want the right to prosecute criminals of all races on all lands within our original boundaries. Which is why I try to run a tight courtroom, Joe. What I am doing now is for the future, though it may seem small, or trivial, or boring, to you.\" I've seen it done before (and I have no idea why) where quotation marks are left out entirely. I would often read a passage and think it's internal dialogue when in fact it's an actual conversation so I would have to go back and re-read the entire passage to be in the right frame of mind. I'm really not clear as to what purpose it serves by leaving them out, other than confusion. My only other issue was after finishing I was left with the feeling that the book was unnecessarily long (despite it only being 317 pages long). It just felt as if there was too much information that in the end was simply irrelevant. Interesting, but ultimately irrelevant. I enjoyed the obvious amount of research the author conducted in regards to Native American laws and culture. It made the story feel solid, sound, and very much believable. The Round House is an interesting story with a powerful message about how regardless of the centuries of change and advancement, the laws of today still have their flaws. ...more I forgot that when reading Erdrich, I need to play close attention and remember everything because everything has meaning or returns later in some fashion. I absolutely love the way this woman writes. It seems that there have been readers who thought they would be getting a crime-solving mystery with this book and have been disappointed. I think there is as much crime-solving mystery here as there is in To Kill a Mockingbird . Actually, if you mix that book with \"Stand By Me\" and some Sherman Alexi I forgot that when reading Erdrich, I need to play close attention and remember everything because everything has meaning or returns later in some fashion. I absolutely love the way this woman writes. It seems that there have been readers who thought they would be getting a crime-solving mystery with this book and have been disappointed. I think there is as much crime-solving mystery here as there is in To Kill a Mockingbird . Actually, if you mix that book with \"Stand By Me\" and some Sherman Alexie, I think you'd get a feel for this story. As I listened, I felt like a kid, slack-jawed, hearing a story unwind and fill my brain. It starts out so simply on a reservation in North Dakota in 1988, with Joe and his dad -- members of the Coutts family who are Responsible, upright, even off-handedly heroic men who drank quietly, smoked an occasional cigar, drove a sensible car, and only showed their mettle by marrying smarter women -- puttering about doing their Sunday chores, pulling seedlings from the shingles of the house, when they realize Joe's mom, Geraldine, hasn't come home yet. They go to find her because they're worried something bad has happened since she's never late like this but then, as they drive toward where they think she may be, they see her coming from the opposite direction, racing back home in a hurry, so they turn around and follow, laughing with relief that she is upset about something and making up stories about what could have kept her so long and what she may be so riled over. Only once home, they find their relief was wrong and that something horrible has, indeed, happened. The feeling of everything being fine and then it being nothing like fine was so perfectly rendered and that set the tone for the summer Joe went from being a regular 13-year-old kid to an adult with a past. Something about the way Erdrich writes has always hit me straight in the heart. It's simple and evocative with a soft power that grows as it sits, lingering in the mind. She uses a smooth, black rock as a vehicle to describe loyalty, friendship, power, pain, and eternity. She juxtaposes humor and horror when describing a violent rape and near murder against the backdrop of the all-too-common frustration of locking one's keys in the car. The description is especially chilling because Joe had noticed in passing that his mom had smelled like gasoline after she'd been attacked. Joe, we need a protection dog. There was a man we suspect, but he has cleared out which means he could be anywhere or he might not have done it but the real attacker could still be in the area. I asked what I thought was a police TV question. What evidence do you have that this one guy did it? My father considered not answering, I could tell, but he finally did. He had trouble saying some of the words. The perpetrator or the suspect, the attacker, dropped a book of matches. The matches were from the golf course. They give them out at the desk So they\u2019re starting with the golfers, I said. This meant the attacker could be Indian or white. That golf course fascinated everyone, it was a kind of fad. Golf was for rich people, supposedly, but here we had a course of scraggly grass and natural water pits. With a special introductory rate, people passed their clubs around and everyone seems to have tried it except my dad. Yes, the golf course. Why\u2019d he drop the matches? My father rubbed a hand across his eyes and again had trouble speaking. He wanted to, tried to. He was having trouble lighting a match. A book match? Yes. Oh. Did he get it lit? No. The match was wet. So then what happened Suddenly my eyes began to water and I bent over my plate My father picked his fork back up\u2026he sat back. He drained another cup of coffee from his favorite heavy white china diner mug. He put a napkin to his lips, shut his eyes, opened them and then looked at me directly. Alright, Joe, you\u2019re askin\u2019 a lot of questions, you\u2019re developing an order to things in your mind, you\u2019re thinking this out. So am I, Joe. The perpetrator couldn\u2019t light the match. He went to look for another book of matches, some way of lighting a fire. While he was gone, your mother managed to escape. It\u2019s not spelled out but that\u2019s what makes the dawning realization so much more horrific. The attacker was planning to burn Geraldine alive. The depth of this hate crime, rape, abuse and then murder via incineration is incredibly violent but the violence is not described, not at all. It\u2019s parceled out on a quiet evening over a meal of what my mom always called goulash as a father and his thirteen-year-old son have an honest but painful conversation about the cruelty that has been visited upon their family. But then the father goes on to explain how Geraldine was always locking herself out of the car by putting the keys on the dashboard in order to grab all the things from the passenger seat that she needed to bring into the office. She\u2019d lock the car door behind her, go about her day, then when work was done, she\u2019d search her purse for her keys only to find them on the dashboard and she\u2019d have to call her husband or son to bring the extra set. It\u2019s so lighthearted, such an everyday occurrence, such a loving memory of a person who did such a silly, irritating thing and it\u2019s jarring that this is being told with extreme violence as the backdrop. From there, Joe goes on to experience his first erotic love which is compared to his best friend's first love that is far more pure though also far more sexual. He does the things 13-year-old boys did in 1988, like idolize \"Star Trek: The Next Generation\" (high-five, boys!) and bike around town and sneak cigarettes and beer. He also becomes sneaky, working to find who raped his mother and why. He plans revenge as only a hot-headed youngster can and in doing so, he finds out more about his own collective history as well as that of the community in which he lives. It's beautiful and painful, funny and awful, sad and real. My only complaint is that in this book, things that are subtly explained are later fully spelled-out. That unspoken threat of immolation later becomes a full-on realization and while Joe needed to make that leap in order to spur the next part of his story, having it told out loud lessened the shock of the crime, at least it did for me. Similarly, Mushum's (please excuse the misspelling, I'm going phonetically, here) story of Nanapush and the wendigo was linked to Joe's story in a way that may be satisfying for some but, for me, was closer to overexplanation. Still, I was swept up in the overall tale and would recommend it to anyone who enjoys a summertime bildungsromans wrapped in the love of friends and family with an undercurrent of terror and hate. ...more This is one of those stories I can't imagine 'ever' forgetting. WOW-WOW-WOW....\"The WRITING\" by Louise Erdrich was EXCEPTIONAL. I wish *I* had words to describe what she 'did' on paper what I liked SOOOOOOOOO much. (I loved how the author 'inserted' ADULT *Joe* like a 'drop-of-spilled-water' into the story---then carried on 'BEING' young *Joe*: smooth -as- silk!) Readers ALMOST didn't notice what SHE was doing. I loved how the author gave us 'enough' information needed --but not 'too much'. DAMN: This is one of those stories I can't imagine 'ever' forgetting. WOW-WOW-WOW....\"The WRITING\" by Louise Erdrich was EXCEPTIONAL. I wish *I* had words to describe what she 'did' on paper what I liked SOOOOOOOOO much. (I loved how the author 'inserted' ADULT *Joe* like a 'drop-of-spilled-water' into the story---then carried on 'BEING' young *Joe*: smooth -as- silk!) Readers ALMOST didn't notice what SHE was doing. I loved how the author gave us 'enough' information needed --but not 'too much'. DAMN: I'm sorry: I wish I knew how to write a better review-- wish I could 'communicate' all the feelings inside me --my thoughts -etc. --I can't seem to find to words to say what it is I'm trying to say....but THIS author did **SOMETHING** very subtle with her writing-style which was BRILLIANT. The writing was GORGEOUS!!!!! I HAD to SLOW down and SAVOR sentences!!!!! I have 8 full pages of notes!!! I had TONS of enjoyment LEARNING new words Learning about plants I've never heard of in my entire life -- I enjoyed the BIG Birthday Bash The Pow-Wow Party I LOVED Joe & Cappy!!! I loved Moonshum --Sonja-Whitey-Father Travis - Linda Lark -even the 'sub' characters like 'pimply-guy'. I enjoyed 'The bonding-of-the boys' I enjoyed the story-the mystery -THE TRIBE-the history-my education ----(a range of many feelings) I cried on page 246 (shhhhhhhh: about Joe's father's neckties) --Don't even ask me to explain why....lol I cried again when the book ended -- (I was INVESTED in this book --with pen & paper) I cried one more time when I read 'about-the-author' and other 'real-facts'. I COMPLETELY enjoyed reading ALL the MANY different reviews Goodread members wrote --(from low stars to high rating stars). I had not read these until today (after I had read the book). Making the experience MUCH more rich. I enjoyed all the postive AND negative comments. I'm THRILLED \"The Round House\" is our local BOOK CLUB 'pick' this month. I can't wait to participate with our Bay Area book club members to discuss this book. ---Sat. morning: Dec. 21st. I know our discussion will ADD to the flavor of reading this story. I felt 'loss' when this book ended ---(I just didn't want it to end) --- I wanted to hang out longer with Joe, Cappy, Moonshum --and the 'gang'.... Many wonderful things to say about this book!!.... I must go....[make some bannock]....ha ha ha And, Find the lost children: \"Papoose on the loose\"!!!! ...more I am not even going to try and review this book because Will did such a fantastic job of it already: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... I only want to add that the friendship between Joe and his best friend Cappy was so affecting it almost killed me. National Book Award? Not for me. An important Native American legal loophole was brought to light.---when a Native American woman is raped by a non-native man, legal jurisprudence is lacking. For me, this could have been done more effectively with a tighter, more focused story. I cared about Joe, the 13 year old whose mother was raped. I appreciated the author's authentic voice and her use of elder's stories when they directly related to the storyline. What I didn't like was all of those rambling National Book Award? Not for me. An important Native American legal loophole was brought to light.---when a Native American woman is raped by a non-native man, legal jurisprudence is lacking. For me, this could have been done more effectively with a tighter, more focused story. I cared about Joe, the 13 year old whose mother was raped. I appreciated the author's authentic voice and her use of elder's stories when they directly related to the storyline. What I didn't like was all of those rambling side stories---Mooshum, to name one, and many of the tangents with Joe and his other coming of age buddies. I found some of the descriptive prose over the top and I have a high threshold for description. I know that the elimination of quotation marks is getting more and more prevalent. In this story, it was sometimes hard to separate interior monologue from dialogue. I have decided that I'm not a big Louise Erdrich fan. I've read 3 of her books and haven't loved any of them. Think I'm moving on. ...more *************************************** Louise Erdrich surprises me every time. I feared that this book was going in one direction for almost 85% of its progression. But, behaving like the stealth predators she references repeatedly here, Louise Erdrich restructures the assumptions; and compels the reader to reassess. We are then trapped. So much is brought together in the last 15% that this reader will certainly re-read this book. History, the Spirit world, our depraved political and legal nightmare *************************************** Louise Erdrich surprises me every time. I feared that this book was going in one direction for almost 85% of its progression. But, behaving like the stealth predators she references repeatedly here, Louise Erdrich restructures the assumptions; and compels the reader to reassess. We are then trapped. So much is brought together in the last 15% that this reader will certainly re-read this book. History, the Spirit world, our depraved political and legal nightmares, and the redefinitions of justice and consequences are almost more that we feel that we can take. But we must live on. And we fear that we will. ...more A violent sexual attack. A woman too afraid to talk. The trauma that takes her inward; the husband and son left to deal. Arresting. Yet this story is about so much more. It is about a son's love, about a teenage boy who turns detective and recruits his friends to search for his mother's attacker. It is a story about best friends, the male dynamic; about family. It is a story told through the tangles of love, lust, deceit, and greed. The novel provides a pastoral landscape of the Native American c A violent sexual attack. A woman too afraid to talk. The trauma that takes her inward; the husband and son left to deal. Arresting. Yet this story is about so much more. It is about a son's love, about a teenage boy who turns detective and recruits his friends to search for his mother's attacker. It is a story about best friends, the male dynamic; about family. It is a story told through the tangles of love, lust, deceit, and greed. The novel provides a pastoral landscape of the Native American culture in South Dakota, and deals with the complexities of Indian law: \" That rotten year for Indians, 1953, when Congress not only decided to try Termination out on us but passed Public Law 280, which gave certain states criminal and civil jurisdiction over Indian lands within their borders. \" If you're familiar with tribal laws on Indian reservations and the history behind why those laws exist and why reservations are exclusive in the first place, you know how intrusive this public law could be. Erdrich manages to weave this historical context into the narrative. Joe, the protagonist in this story, had to watch as his tribal judge dad struggle to get justice for Joe's mother. Was the harm done on tribal land or federal land? Was it done by a non-Native American? Was the trial to take place in federal court? Emotional truth seeps out of this beautiful, and heart-rending story that Erdrich tells through stunning details, giving you imagery for something as simple as smoking: I broke my cigarette carefully in half and shared with Cappy. Zack and Angus shared the other. I dragged on the end until it scorched my fingers. We didn't speak while we were smoking and when we were done we flicked the shreds of tobacco off our tongues, the way Elwin did. I could envision this scene, see Joe and his friends clearly. It takes restrained prose to keep the \"voice\" of this narrative teenage-simple, yet so visual. There is only so much you can say about the plot without \"spoiling\" it. So I won't say much. I will only talk about the kind of prose that floats on simple sentences: I know there's lots of world over and above Highway 5, but when you're driving on it--four boys in one car and it's so peaceful, so empty for mile after mile, when the radio stations cut out and there's just static and the sound of your voices, and wind when you put your arm out to rest it on the hood--it seems you are balanced. Skimming along the rim of the universe. Sure, there's a portion with Mooshum, the grandfather, that didn't make much sense to me because there is some mysticism woven throughout the narrative. A great read nonetheless. ...more I've read and enjoyed a number of Erdrich's books and wanted very much to enjoy this one as well. Unfortunately I didn't. I kept waiting for it to grab me, for something more powerful to come along, for something to truly happen. But nothing ever did. I hate to say it, but, to my dismay, I found this story dull. I could feel throughout the story an underlining subtlety of emotion and, well, story, but it was never released. Perhaps because I found the characters too softly defined - I simply cou I've read and enjoyed a number of Erdrich's books and wanted very much to enjoy this one as well. Unfortunately I didn't. I kept waiting for it to grab me, for something more powerful to come along, for something to truly happen. But nothing ever did. I hate to say it, but, to my dismay, I found this story dull. I could feel throughout the story an underlining subtlety of emotion and, well, story, but it was never released. Perhaps because I found the characters too softly defined - I simply couldn't believe/relate to/connect with Joe and that kept me at bay. Plus there really wasn't anything new offered here. So I give this a generous 3 stars as I could never give Erdrich but 2, therefore let's subtly agree on 2.6. ...more Beautifully written, told from the perspective of a 13 year old Ojibwe boy, Joe, whose mother is brutally attacked in the Round House, a sacred site of worship. Erdrich provides an interesting look at life on an Indian reservation in the 1980's, but the relationships between Joe, his family and his friends are what gives the story its heart and soul. The mystery of what happened to Joe's mom and why is so compelling that I wanted to race to the conclusion, but pace yourself - this is a book to s Beautifully written, told from the perspective of a 13 year old Ojibwe boy, Joe, whose mother is brutally attacked in the Round House, a sacred site of worship. Erdrich provides an interesting look at life on an Indian reservation in the 1980's, but the relationships between Joe, his family and his friends are what gives the story its heart and soul. The mystery of what happened to Joe's mom and why is so compelling that I wanted to race to the conclusion, but pace yourself - this is a book to savor. ...more Superb, haunting, brutal. This is my third Erdrich this year and I don\u2019t really want to stop\u2026 The Round House has been described as \u201criveting and suspenseful\u201d. I felt neither. It starts off with the promise of a good mystery and tense family drama. Poor Joe, a thirteen year old boy, has witnessed the aftermath of a horrific crime against his mother. Since the story is told by Joe, I wanted the focus to be on his search for justice, but we get his thoughts on Star Trek, his obsession with big boobs, silly comments regarding the male appendage, and lots of puke. (Of course, Joe is thirteen The Round House has been described as \u201criveting and suspenseful\u201d. I felt neither. It starts off with the promise of a good mystery and tense family drama. Poor Joe, a thirteen year old boy, has witnessed the aftermath of a horrific crime against his mother. Since the story is told by Joe, I wanted the focus to be on his search for justice, but we get his thoughts on Star Trek, his obsession with big boobs, silly comments regarding the male appendage, and lots of puke. (Of course, Joe is thirteen.) There is also one too many \u201cyou want to know why, I\u2019ll tell you why\u201d statements. The story went off in too many tangents. I couldn\u2019t stay focused because of that. I liked Joe as a kid and I liked knowing the love and pride he had for his mother, I just didn\u2019t get the writing. It was everywhere other than where I wanted it to be. I wanted a mystery. I wanted that riveting and suspenseful story. I learn more about American Indian culture in fiction with Lori Armstrong\u2019s Mercy Gunderson series or even Craig Johnson\u2019s Walt Longmire series. I guess I\u2019m too mainstream and The Round House tried too hard to be over the top brilliant. ...more Good story Author is the daughter of Native American, she knows her tribe and wrote a wonderful story. 13 year old boy dealing with mother's assault. Father is tribal lawyer, teaching him lots of life lessons. He loves to read and knows short comings of the law. Learned somethings about Native Americans, but looks like under age drinking and smoking laws doesn't apply to them.<---C>Louise Erdrich</---C>", "Title": "The Round House"},
