{"Comments": "NEXT BY MICHAEL CRICHTON: I\u2019m still trying to figure out how this manuscript landed in the hands of an editor and actually got the go ahead to be published in time for Christmas. I can\u2019t help but think about all those dads that are going to be so disappointed on December 26th when they crack open the book and find a collection of plot lines with confusing characters and stories that seem to go nowhere. In Prey and State of Fear, Crichton did what he does best in providing a well researched book w NEXT BY MICHAEL CRICHTON: I\u2019m still trying to figure out how this manuscript landed in the hands of an editor and actually got the go ahead to be published in time for Christmas. I can\u2019t help but think about all those dads that are going to be so disappointed on December 26th when they crack open the book and find a collection of plot lines with confusing characters and stories that seem to go nowhere. In Prey and State of Fear, Crichton did what he does best in providing a well researched book with a riveting and thrilling plot, thought I felt the latter a little heavy handed with a viewpoint I didn\u2019t necessarily agree with. Compared with <+++>Next</+++>, I seriously wonder what happened? The book seems barely half finished, even though if runs on for four hundred pages. There are around five to seven plot lines each with their own vague characters that the reader has to struggle to keep straight going on in their own seemingly inane direction. Near the end of the book a few of these plot lines cross over forcefully at the author\u2019s hand, and then the book ends and the reader is left wondering where the rest of the book is. What happened to the basic rule of a story? Instead of a beginning,<---M> middle and an end</---M>, the reader gets a weak infrastructure of a beginning, with part of a middle which suddenly ends! Combined with this is the overarching philosophy of this novel (<---B>which I hope Crichton doesn\u2019t subscribe to himself</---B>) where every person is one who sees life only for personal gain, to be rich, and feel constant pleasure. The women are always bombshells to be used and discarded, while the characters in general will stop at nothing to satisfy their pathetic personal whims. As for the learning portion of the novel \u2013 with Prey it was the risk of nanotechnology, with State of Fear global warming \u2013 Crichton is very heavy handed in the risks of gene therapy and engineering, running the gamut from talking (and by this I mean with extensive vocabularies) parrots and orangutans, to the risks of human cloning, to bounty hunters trying to kidnap and steal tissues from innocent people who simply happen to possess the same DNA as a family member who had his cells declared property of UCLA in a court of law. While Crichton is trying to make the blatant point of \u201cWatch out, this is what can happen,\u201d it comes off as over-the-top farce and tomfoolery. And if it wasn\u2019t made clear for you, he ends the novel with his note about how patenting genes is bad, as well as a list of other matters involving gene therapy, followed by a bibliography, just to show he did the work, supposedly It is sad really, for I\u2019d hoped <+++>Next</+++> would be the return to the great author who gave us truly brilliant novels like Jurassic Park, Sphere, and The Andromeda Strain, but Next can\u2019t really be considered an actual book now, because of its failure in the rules of a novel on so many levels. If you liked this review, and would like to read more, go to BookBanter . ...more Next by <---A>Michael Crichton</---A> is a ridiculous, silly book. But I bet a lot of people said the same thing about Brave New World, Dune, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, Stranger in a Strange Land, and 1984 when they came out. No, Next can not hold a candle to these science fiction classics, but it is the same kind of book, and it is poignant for its time. The fact is, Crichton writes satire, and the general perception of him does not accept this.<---F> Next is both silly and excellent</---F>. More importantly, I lear Next by Michael Crichton is a ridiculous, silly book. But I bet a lot of people said the same thing about Brave New World, Dune, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, Stranger in a Strange Land, and 1984 when they came out. No, Next can not hold a candle to these science fiction classics, but it is the same kind of book, and it is poignant for its time. The fact is, Crichton writes satire, and the general perception of him does not accept this. Next is both silly and excellent. More importantly, I learned quite a bit from reading it. I did not know that genes can be patented, human tissues can be used in any way by whomever happens to end up with them, and that gene testing results can be hidden in such a way that deaths have been covered up because they were \"trade secrets\". Crichton shows the extreme possibilities of these insane laws. In Next, a man has a gene that could be a groundbreaking cure, but when the company that has the patent for it is sabotaged and loses all its samples it believes it is within its rights to hire bounty hunters to track down this man's daughter and grandson and surgically take some of their genes since they are the company's property. This is just one story that intersects the others in Next (Oh, by the way, there is a transgenic chimpanzee-human in the book). Will it happen? Probably not. But do we only produce children in test tubes like in Brave New World? Have we colonized the moon like in The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress? And while surveillance gets scarier and scarier are we actually being watched all the time like in 1984? No. Satire, by definition, is trafficking in exaggeration to warn people about where we are going. Crichton might be mentioned more frequently in a list that includes John Grisham and Danielle Steel, then with the likes of Aldous Huxley and George Orwell, but he is a satirical science fiction writer, and a pretty good one. His popularity and high quantity output is making people think he is for thirteen-year-old boys only. He is better than that. Give the man a chance. Start with Next. ...more I'm giving the five stars not because of how it is written, but what it's about. Crichton was trained as a medical doctor before he was a novelist. And he died of cancer recently at a relatively young age. I am supposing he wrote this book after he was diagnosed. He knew there could be all kinds of ways of treating his disease that have not yet emerged from clinical trials. He was certainly angry at the medical establishment, at the research community, at Big Pharma, and at the government's poli I'm giving the five stars not because of how it is written, but what it's about. Crichton was trained as a medical doctor before he was a novelist. And he died of cancer recently at a relatively young age. I am supposing he wrote this book after he was diagnosed. He knew there could be all kinds of ways of treating his disease that have not yet emerged from clinical trials. He was certainly angry at the medical establishment, at the research community, at Big Pharma, and at the government's policies regarding intellectual property rights for genetic discoveries. Crichton's books often have bibliographies, but this one also has an appendix containing his recommendations on legislative reform in the area of genetic research. As to the book as literature, he interweaves multiple plots that converge here and there. It's a compelling drama of ideas, but it lacks the strong narrative thread. It won't make a good movie without sacrificing a lot of the interesting side issues. There's no single strong main character, no single ominous threat with ticking fuse. Oddly enough, my complaint about some of his more commercially successful books is that the plotting was too simplistic, too lean, as though designed for the movie script to simply fall out. I assumed he listened to CAA too much about how to structure his books because his agents cared not at all about them as literature, only about how much they would fetch for movie rights. The best Crichton book, by far, is \"The Great Train Robbery.\" Not sci-fi at all, just meticulous research, loads of detail, and great storytelling. ...more Oops! Finished this yesterday and forgot to review! I enjoyed this book even though it was a bit spastic. Basically, Michael Crichton learned everything he could about the state of gene research and politics and combined it into a series of fictional stories to make separate points. Some of the stories ended up crossing and some did not. If you read this, don't expect any cohesion, just appreciate the anecdotes within. 1.5 Next is a very well-researched book. And that\u2019s the only good thing I can say about it. The characters were too many and too unmemorable; I forgot nearly all of them as soon as they were mentioned. The stuff on stem-cells and genes and biotechnology was excruciatingly boring. The story was over-exaggerated, silly and unintentionally funny. A swearing chimpanzee and a transgenic ape who goes to school?? Are you kidding me?? I\u2019m still trying to figure out why I read Next instead of Jurassic Park . 1.5 Next is a very well-researched book. And that\u2019s the only good thing I can say about it. The characters were too many and too unmemorable; I forgot nearly all of them as soon as they were mentioned. The stuff on stem-cells and genes and biotechnology was excruciatingly boring. The story was over-exaggerated, silly and unintentionally funny. A swearing chimpanzee and a transgenic ape who goes to school?? Are you kidding me?? I\u2019m still trying to figure out why I read Next instead of Jurassic Park ... ...more Fast paced story with a ton of subplots that plays like a popular soap opera of your choice. Topics range from legal battles over human tissue (including the right to have bounty hunters go after the descendants of said tissue), transgenic apes, one transgenic parrot (that talk tough if provoked), biotech espionage vs. competitors, gene patenting, and a lot of angry people. There's some scientific info woven into this tale as well but not too much yet I still learned about some new things like c Fast paced story with a ton of subplots that plays like a popular soap opera of your choice. Topics range from legal battles over human tissue (including the right to have bounty hunters go after the descendants of said tissue), transgenic apes, one transgenic parrot (that talk tough if provoked), biotech espionage vs. competitors, gene patenting, and a lot of angry people. There's some scientific info woven into this tale as well but not too much yet I still learned about some new things like chimeras and how close animals and such are closer to us than we want to admit. Tons of moralistic questions and ones that should concern us as we aren't terribly far from this possible future. Although the book is long the chapters are short with cliffhangers so it flows nicely. The ape kid is one of the best top four characters in this novel. CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B plus to A minus; STORY/PLOTTING: A; HOTNESS OF SAID TOPIC AND FUTURE DISCUSSION: A; NEW WORLD EXPOSURE: B plus; WHEN READ: October to January 2011 (review formatting change 8/23/2012); MY GRADE: B plus to A minus. ...more So I was, like, really broke towards the tail end of last month. But, you know, broke or not, I still needed something to read - I was just going to have to content myself with one of those trashy, $7.99 paperbacks. And, lemme tell ya, pickings are slim. So I got a Michael Crichton book. I'm very ashamed. More so because I actually, well, liked it. Crichton, I think, resonates so well with middle-of-the-road audiences because his takes on science and technology tend to play to the common man's fe So I was, like, really broke towards the tail end of last month. But, you know, broke or not, I still needed something to read - I was just going to have to content myself with one of those trashy, $7.99 paperbacks. And, lemme tell ya, pickings are slim. So I got a Michael Crichton book. I'm very ashamed. More so because I actually, well, liked it. Crichton, I think, resonates so well with middle-of-the-road audiences because his takes on science and technology tend to play to the common man's fear that it's all spiraling out of control. It feeds the idea that scientists are unscrupulous, insane dirtbags. Next really isn't that different. There's a lot of unscrupulous science going on here. And it's a very didactic book, a lot of exposition, a lot of information, and a clear bias. Just like most other Michael Crichton sci-fi thrillers. The difference here is that, well, he might actually be right. When you talk about things such as corporate ownership of portions of the genome, patenting of individual genes, ownership of cells being given to someone other than the person those cells came from - this is all stuff that's happening right now. And it's stuff that cannot, in any way, be good. And, yeah, there are some subplots about transgenic animals. They're fun - mostly because, hey, who doesn't love a talking animal - but they're not what this is about. The concern here isn't even necessarily about the science, it's about the greed that has warped the science. So, thematically, it's terribly compelling. In actual execution, well... few writers are as talented at the craft of forcing you to turn the page as Crichton, even if what's on the next page is kind of hackneyed. And that's the problem with the $7.99 mass-market paperback, isn't it? Even when you have interesting themes, they're really just the window dressing for chases, shootouts, mistaken identities, unbelievable coincidences and, yeah, talking monkeys. ...more The later few Crichton novels seem to have a higher vision and intent than to only entertain; they also seek to educate and encourage debate. To that end, Next throws light on areas such as the government's policies on intellectual property rights for genetic discoveries, the absurd practice of patenting entire genes (and all uses and interactions that genome may carry out with anything else - in all of mankind) and diseases, what exactly constitutes cell ownership, and the moral grey areas such The later few Crichton novels seem to have a higher vision and intent than to only entertain; they also seek to educate and encourage debate. To that end, Next throws light on areas such as the government's policies on intellectual property rights for genetic discoveries, the absurd practice of patenting entire genes (and all uses and interactions that genome may carry out with anything else - in all of mankind) and diseases, what exactly constitutes cell ownership, and the moral grey areas such as the ethics of genetic engineering, stem cell research and genetic therapy. For example, I never thought about the impact that publishing a deceased's genetic information would have on their relatives and descendants with respect to insurance companies using the said info. The one irksome aspect is the high number of characters that keep getting introduced with plot lines of their own, with some of them made to cross over forcefully at Crichton's hand, who sacrifices pace in the narrative head so that he may bring to light the many different facets of the subject. In one of the interviews included in the ebook version (note: the two interviews and an essay by Crichton are all excellent), Crichton weighs-in: I think there were two considerations. One was that I was unable to overlook the structure of the genome as we are now starting to understand it, and how individual genes interact with other genes, or may seem to be silent, or we don\u2019t really know what they do, or sometimes there are repetitions that are not clear to us, and it struck me as an interesting idea to try to organize the novel in that way, even though it\u2019s not what one ordinarily does. The second thing that was driving me was the notion that there are a great many stories of interest in this area, and they\u2019re all quite different in terms of the legal and ethical problems that are raised in the field, so I wanted to do a number of different stories . The story, though it moves along quite nicely, doesn't really have a meaty enough middle to it (well, except for Gerard, the talking African grey parrot, who's a riot), and is more a device for the larger intent and theme that Crichton has in mind. So, as a novel, I wouldn't rate this one too high. But as a book, it's quite a good read. ...more This was not necessarily a bad novel (I still rated it right around average!) but suffice it to say that it is the worst Crichton novel that I have read thus far. I think where Next fails is that Mr. Crichton tried to get too many storylines going in order to have them all running simultaneously in an effort to show a more grand scope to his issues of possible problems with genetic research. The main problem here is that many of the characters became washed out and meaningless. There is just so m This was not necessarily a bad novel (I still rated it right around average!) but suffice it to say that it is the worst Crichton novel that I have read thus far. I think where Next fails is that Mr. Crichton tried to get too many storylines going in order to have them all running simultaneously in an effort to show a more grand scope to his issues of possible problems with genetic research. The main problem here is that many of the characters became washed out and meaningless. There is just so much going on with so many different characters that I kept having to reset and figure out who was who and exactly what was going on with them. I think that he had the bones here to craft a really good storyline, but would have benefited tremendously from a heavy dose of self-editing and then expanding the tales of those characters that he felt most essential to keep. What came out of this book for me was confusing and subsequently, quite boring. Michael Crichton is one of my favorite authors in contemporary fiction however and I am not discouraged enough by one stinker to stop reading his novels. ...more This was riveting! The book is about all of the possibilities of gene therapy and genetic engineering and it blends fact and fiction in clever ways that leave the reader with the unnerving sense that some of the fictional story lines are probably happening somewhere in the world right now. It also gives a strong sense of just how uncontrolled this field is and what ethical questions arise if a person allows a company to \"purchase\" their cell line...or a scientist decides to insert human genes in This was riveting! The book is about all of the possibilities of gene therapy and genetic engineering and it blends fact and fiction in clever ways that leave the reader with the unnerving sense that some of the fictional story lines are probably happening somewhere in the world right now. It also gives a strong sense of just how uncontrolled this field is and what ethical questions arise if a person allows a company to \"purchase\" their cell line...or a scientist decides to insert human genes into an animal fetus and create a \"transgenic\" animal...or someone claims to have isolated a particular gene that could cure a disease. The behind the scenes buying and selling of gene patents between universities and/or drug companies is downright scary. It doesn't take too much of a leap of imagination to visualize very muddy ethical lines between a scientific pursuit of knowledge and the pursuit of the almighty dollar. I couldn't put it down! ...more Fantastic book. Immensely futuristic even as it shows you what is actually happening today. The fact that transgenic animals have been created for decades was an eye-opener. The book clearly has a viewpoint on genetic engineering and there is an author's note at the end which is a must-read. Highly recommend this to anyone who is looking an intelligent thriller, even though the book is also satire. I had been boycotting Michael Crichton since his unhelpful muddying of the waters of the climate change \"debate\" in his next-to-last novel which included a personal message to his readers that he didn't believe the issues were really human related at all. Read the IPCC report, you ignoramus. However, I was stuck in an airport in San Juan, Puerto Rico, having finished every novel in my bag and with the prospect of 12 hours of airplanes and airports ahead. The novel selection in the airport shop w I had been boycotting Michael Crichton since his unhelpful muddying of the waters of the climate change \"debate\" in his next-to-last novel which included a personal message to his readers that he didn't believe the issues were really human related at all. Read the IPCC report, you ignoramus. However, I was stuck in an airport in San Juan, Puerto Rico, having finished every novel in my bag and with the prospect of 12 hours of airplanes and airports ahead. The novel selection in the airport shop was a single shelf of chick lit and Clive Cusslers. I was desperate. His newest hobbyhorse is genetics and the story, if you could call it that, is light window dressing for sociopolitical railery. He should have stuck to dinosaurs, not that the pseudoscientific scaffolding that Jurassic Park hung upon was any better, but at least we weren't subjected to his personal views to such an enfuriating degree. I don't disagree that genetics, gene therapy, and copywriting of particular genes are bringing up some worrying issues but I don't need them pointed out to me by some hack writer in the guise of a novel. Mr. Crichton is a conspiracy theorist and the conspiracy is made up of SCIENTISTS. Don't even get me started on his Astrobiology book. ...more I love the way that Michael Crichton takes seemingly non-related parallel story lines and brings them all together in the end. Being a scientist, the topic of this book was interesting to me and I liked the book. I could really do without the profanity in the book... the F-word being his word of choice. I must say that Crichton sure did exhaust it's usage... as verb, noun, adjective, and maybe even some new ways to use it. I had to laugh when on page 370, one of the characters, \"shouted and swor I love the way that Michael Crichton takes seemingly non-related parallel story lines and brings them all together in the end. Being a scientist, the topic of this book was interesting to me and I liked the book. I could really do without the profanity in the book... the F-word being his word of choice. I must say that Crichton sure did exhaust it's usage... as verb, noun, adjective, and maybe even some new ways to use it. I had to laugh when on page 370, one of the characters, \"shouted and swore.\" Any other place in the book, he just put it right out there. Even when the character was not directly talking or thinking, Crichton would use profanity as an adjective when describing what was going on. It took a 4-star book down to a 3-star for me. ...more The Good: A fantastic premise, as always, from Crichton. Fact based, with completely terrifying implications, Next takes science today to that \"next\" step. If furthers things just a bit more, the ramifications of which give the readers a lot of troubling thoughts to consider. The Bad: Crichton lost me at the money. Apparently, if you mix human and monkey DNA, a monkey will be born with human vocal capabilities. A monkey that you can pass off as a child with a hairy birth defect and some impulse c The Good: A fantastic premise, as always, from Crichton. Fact based, with completely terrifying implications, Next takes science today to that \"next\" step. If furthers things just a bit more, the ramifications of which give the readers a lot of troubling thoughts to consider. The Bad: Crichton lost me at the money. Apparently, if you mix human and monkey DNA, a monkey will be born with human vocal capabilities. A monkey that you can pass off as a child with a hairy birth defect and some impulse control issues. The fact that this monkey was able to fool more than one person in this book was just ludicrous. I had a hard time taking anything seriously in the book after that. ...more This is classic Michael Crichton. I love his stories and how he intermingle science within a fictional novel. The story deals with the ethics and stories associated with bio genetics. There is a long cast of characters and the author ties them together in the end (which is probably a little too far fetched). However, it is a great way (for me) to get lost in an amazing world that Michael has a way of putting together. I am sad that he has passed away and will no longer be able to gift the world This is classic Michael Crichton. I love his stories and how he intermingle science within a fictional novel. The story deals with the ethics and stories associated with bio genetics. There is a long cast of characters and the author ties them together in the end (which is probably a little too far fetched). However, it is a great way (for me) to get lost in an amazing world that Michael has a way of putting together. I am sad that he has passed away and will no longer be able to gift the world with his creativity. ...more Reading this was like watching a badly written television series. Crichton tried way too hard to be sensational. Disappointing. Science runs amok when introduced to the profit motive. This is a work of fiction, but firmly rooted in the possibilities of today. Genetic capitalization, that is the name of the game and Crichton spins multiples stories that all revolve around how the progress of science can be (and likely already is) used and abused for capital gains. In a world that has seen the proliferation of drug commercials, sky-rocketing drug costs, and morally ambiguous legal decisions regarding big pharma, much of wha Science runs amok when introduced to the profit motive. This is a work of fiction, but firmly rooted in the possibilities of today. Genetic capitalization, that is the name of the game and Crichton spins multiples stories that all revolve around how the progress of science can be (and likely already is) used and abused for capital gains. In a world that has seen the proliferation of drug commercials, sky-rocketing drug costs, and morally ambiguous legal decisions regarding big pharma, much of what lies between these pages is completely believable. Of coarse, Crichton has to wrap it all up in a thriller/adventure dressing, but that's okay, it's the 'spoon full of sugar' theory in literary action. The multiple story lines are okay, there is little to no real character development, but in the end is that what you expect from Crichton? I think not - I know I don't. It's a page turner that will make you think a bit, and that is kind of his shtick, and there is certainly much worse out there. It's solid and entertaining. The most engaging characters, Gerard and Dave, are not even human (though not completely non-human either), but they seem to have more depth than the rest of the cast all rolled together. The events will keep you reading; it's plot driven with a steady rat-a-tat drum line. Crichton is a mass seller, I understand that, and I am not about to criticize making STEM topics palatable or consumable for the masses, but there are times that his writing seems patronizing. Do people really not know the difference between apes and monkeys? Do we need to have the fact that there is a difference between the two repeated soooo many times? Please no more Gomer Pyle characters yelling about monkeys while face-to-face with an Orangutan. I mean, every character seemed to understand how genetic engineering would basically work, but the concept of ape not monkey was beyond them - Yarg. ...more This book was a very random purchase in Hoboken, NJ while waiting over two hours for the next train to upstate New York to visit a friend. I\u2019d read a few books by Michael Crichton and this one was on sale for $7.00 (hard cover) so I grabbed it. Next delves into scientific advancement. What is wrong, right, and where the line between them is largely overlooked. Medical related, of course, the story follows individuals as they face the consequences of things like genetic engineering, DNA decoding, This book was a very random purchase in Hoboken, NJ while waiting over two hours for the next train to upstate New York to visit a friend. I\u2019d read a few books by Michael Crichton and this one was on sale for $7.00 (hard cover) so I grabbed it. Next delves into scientific advancement. What is wrong, right, and where the line between them is largely overlooked. Medical related, of course, the story follows individuals as they face the consequences of things like genetic engineering, DNA decoding, genetic tampering, and one of the most insane things out there: gene patenting (side note, did you know 5% of the genes that make up who you are are patented and \"owned\" by companies?) Are all the things going on in the book true? Most likely not. Could they be? Of course. That is what kept the book interesting to me. In this book I didn't really grow attached to the characters in the pages due to a lack of real character development but I did care about what they were doing to help change (some for the better, some not) the world in which we live. Next is fast paced with lots of interesting tidbits of information in this sect of science, technology, and patent law. It makes the reality of cures, cloning, and judicial rulings in these matters rather scary. Not a read for everyone but if you like science and can stand an intersting book where you don't fall in love with the characters then I do recommend this book. ...more It's not very often that I experience self-consciousness while reading a book. This book inspired that kind of feeling in me by its being so poorly crafted that I felt absolutely philistine. I'm not sure if Crichton just had a bad writing streak, or if my tastes in reading have moved on - but his most recent book, Next, was an astounding disappointment. Next focuses on the potential that present day and up and coming genetic technologies may have upon our society and way of life. A cautionary tal It's not very often that I experience self-consciousness while reading a book. This book inspired that kind of feeling in me by its being so poorly crafted that I felt absolutely philistine. I'm not sure if Crichton just had a bad writing streak, or if my tastes in reading have moved on - but his most recent book, Next, was an astounding disappointment. Next focuses on the potential that present day and up and coming genetic technologies may have upon our society and way of life. A cautionary tale not unlike many of Crichton's other novels, this book was designed to intimidate and bring forward the scarier possibilities that new genetic technologies pose. I was reminded of the multi-cultural movie \"Babel\" while reading this book, in that the author kept multiple and separate stories narrated in tandem, each story connected one way or another. Although I remain critical about the worth behind the content and some of the choices that were made to communicate the information in the book, that's not to say that I didn't encounter portions of the book that kept me interested and reading longer than I intended so that I could see around the next corner of the twisting plot. Even though this book didn't cater to my desire for mental stimulation, I certainly can't deny that the book did have some page-turning thriller value with a wide appeal range because of the mixed plot lines ranging from John Grisham-like legal intrigue to some science fiction action. For these reasons, I would suggest that anyone looking for a fast reading 400 page book, this one is it. Just don't expect to come out enlightened by Michael Crichton's musings this time around. ...more I finished NEXT last night, having taken two months of bedside reading to move through it leisurely. I also read several of the reviews on this web site. I wonder if those who complain it \"has no plot\" actually finished the book. Crichton DOES pull together his disparate plot lines in the last few chapters. Its important to keep in mind, as one reviewer pointed out, that Crichton is a satirist. Here he mixes his serious material with raw comedy, going way over the top at times. It might have he I finished NEXT last night, having taken two months of bedside reading to move through it leisurely. I also read several of the reviews on this web site. I wonder if those who complain it \"has no plot\" actually finished the book. Crichton DOES pull together his disparate plot lines in the last few chapters. Its important to keep in mind, as one reviewer pointed out, that Crichton is a satirist. Here he mixes his serious material with raw comedy, going way over the top at times. It might have helped if Crichton(alas, the late Michael Crichton) had put his chapter on background research up front; then his purposes might have been better revealed and fewer readers dissapointed or--if my suspicion is true--scared off. This is a fun book. Grim fun, to be sure, but that's often true of SF humor. Much of it is a send-up of that profile of high-seriousness that drug companies bring to all they do, often lulling the public into an acceptance of highly questionable methods. Should we be pissed at Voltaire for taking his narrative \"too far\"? Crichton is not trying to paint an accurate picture here of how far things have come. Well, yes he is. But he's much more concerned, I feel, with what's coming NEXT, if this goes on. ...more I love the way that Michael Crichton takes seemingly non-related parallel story lines and brings them all together in the end. Being a scientist, the topic of this book was interesting to me and I liked the book. I could really do without the profanity in the book... the F-word being his word of choice. I must say that Crichton sure did exhaust it's usage... as verb, noun, adjective, and maybe even some new ways to use it. I had to laugh when on page 370, one of the characters, \"shouted and swor I love the way that Michael Crichton takes seemingly non-related parallel story lines and brings them all together in the end. Being a scientist, the topic of this book was interesting to me and I liked the book. I could really do without the profanity in the book... the F-word being his word of choice. I must say that Crichton sure did exhaust it's usage... as verb, noun, adjective, and maybe even some new ways to use it. I had to laugh when on page 370, one of the characters, \"shouted and swore.\" Any other place in the book, he just put it right out there. Even when the character was not directly talking or thinking, Crichton would use profanity as an adjective when describing what was going on. It took a 4-star book down to a 3-star for me. ...more A fictional thriller with multiple storylines related to genetic testing and research. The story itself was only ok but the really interesting part is the science. I'm keen to follow this up with some non-fiction on the topic to work out how much of Crichton's creation is real. Komplain awal gw adalah di buku ini yg diceritakan adalah transgenik manusia dengan simpanse. Lalu yg ditemukan bisa ngomong dua bahasa, Belanda dan Perancis, di Sumatra adalah orangutan. Tapi, demi apa cover di buku versi Indonesia ini adalah gorila???!!! Buku-buku Crichton selalu bertema ilmu pengetahuan (eh, gak tau lagi kalo Disclosure . Belum baca yg ini) dan minimal bawa-bawa hukum sedikit. Yg jelas topik yg dibahas selalu menarik. Kali ini, beliau menyoroti soal kecanggihan rekayasa geneti Komplain awal gw adalah di buku ini yg diceritakan adalah transgenik manusia dengan simpanse. Lalu yg ditemukan bisa ngomong dua bahasa, Belanda dan Perancis, di Sumatra adalah orangutan. Tapi, demi apa cover di buku versi Indonesia ini adalah gorila???!!! Buku-buku Crichton selalu bertema ilmu pengetahuan (eh, gak tau lagi kalo Disclosure . Belum baca yg ini) dan minimal bawa-bawa hukum sedikit. Yg jelas topik yg dibahas selalu menarik. Kali ini, beliau menyoroti soal kecanggihan rekayasa genetika. Jaman sekarang sudah bukan ranah yg ajaib lagi, mengingat tempe yg kita makan aja kedelainya juga hasil rekayasa genetika. Di buku ini dikisahkan awalnya turis-turis yg melancong ke hutan hujan di Sumatra untuk melihat orangutan, mendadak bertemu dengan orangutan yg fasih misuh-misuh pake bahasa Belanda dan Perancis (kita pernah dijajah Perancis ya?). Sontak saja media langsung berusaha meliputnya yg berujung pada kemunculan orang-orang tamak yg mencoba menangkap si orangutan untuk dipamerkan. Masalahnya, sampe bab terakhir, nggak dijelasin bagaimana si orangutan ini dapat bicara. Lalu adalah Henry Kendall yg \"bermain-main\" dengan gen, sehingga tidak sengaja menciptakan Dave, simpanse yg memiliki gen manusia. Lalu ada Gail Bond dengan Gerard-nya, kakatua kelabu Afrika yg juga diberi gen manusia sehingga bisa berbicara layaknya orang biasa. Hal ini tentu aja bertentangan (paling utama) dengan masalah etika, ibarat kayak main-main jadi Tuhan. Dan pada dasarnya, penggabungan intraspesies (baik lewat inseminasi buatan maupun seksual) efeknya nggak akan berhasil untuk jangka waktu lama. (view spoiler) [Biasanya kalau nggak mati cepet ya mandul (hide spoiler) ] . Isu kedua yg diangkat di buku ini adalah pematenan sebuah gen. Gw juga baru tahu bahwa gen-gen diteliti dan BISA dipatenkan!!! Jadi beberapa universitas \"menggenjot\" profesornya untuk menemukan gen baru lalu hasil penemuannya dipatenkan dan dijual ke perusahaan-perusahaan yg \"memperbanyak\" gen tersebut yg akhirnya memunculkan produk baru untuk kesehatan dan kecantikan. Yg ingin diangkat oleh Crichton adalah betapa berbahayanya model perdagangan tersebut, karena hal tersebut menuju ke monopoli terhadap sesuatu yg dimiliki semua makhluk hidup. Sampai-sampai, Crichton menganalogikan jika si A mematenkan sebuah penemuan misalnya tentang hidung mancung 10 cm, maka semua hidung mancung 10 cm di dunia adalah milik si A. Setiap saat si A butuh hidung mancung 10 cm, maka dia bebas mengambilnya dari siapa saja karena dia punya patennya. Serem kan? Menarik sekali apa yg dibahas oleh Crichton. Namun, masalahnya, buku ini kelewat banyak memiliki kasus (dan tokoh). Jika dirunut, sebenernya ada keterkaitan satu dengan yg lain, tetapi karena cuma satu buku, pembaca kebanyakan kesulitan mengingat korelasi antara tokoh satu dengan yg lain. Belum lagi artikel-artikel sisipan macam transgenik kaktus-rambut manusia sebagai karya seni, kontroversi prediksi kepunahan gen pirang pada tahun 2202, lalu ada perusahaan yg membeli lemak-lemak selebriti untuk dijadikan sabun batangan bahkan ada chef yg masak pake lemak yg berasal dari (maaf) bokongnya. Belum lagi daftar pustaka yg dicantumkan Crichton di akhir buku. Dari situ tampak bahwa Crichton ini updated dan sangat kekinian, beserta mampu melahap buku-buku njelimet untuk riset novelnya. Namun (sekali lagi), entah kenapa, kayaknya cara beliau menuangkan pemikiran dan hasil bacaannya tersebut nampak terburu-buru dan dipaksa untuk dipadatkan dalam satu buku. Jadinya ya....kayak buku ini.... Kurang memuaskan -- apalagi kalo udah baca buku-buku Crichton yg lain.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I have Michael Crichton to thank for my transition from young adult fiction to adult fiction. After devouring Timeline at 12, I was in shock that books could be this good \u2013 filled with crazy science, time travel, and terrifying fights for survival. It was fantastic to discover that not all books were about teens overcoming drug addictions/abuse or silly teenage hormonal problems. Apart from Harry Potter, no book has consumed me like Crichton\u2019s at that point. I read very few YA novels after that I have Michael Crichton to thank for my transition from young adult fiction to adult fiction. After devouring Timeline at 12, I was in shock that books could be this good \u2013 filled with crazy science, time travel, and terrifying fights for survival. It was fantastic to discover that not all books were about teens overcoming drug addictions/abuse or silly teenage hormonal problems. Apart from Harry Potter, no book has consumed me like Crichton\u2019s at that point. I read very few YA novels after that milestone in my life. In the ten years since Timeline , I read many of his novels \u2013 some better than others \u2013 but for the most part all great and twisted reads. So, when I was in the mood for a sciencey thriller, I picked up Next , the last novel he completed before he died in 2008. It pains me to say it, but it fell flat for me. The chapters jumped from character to character, as his novels normally do, but here it seemed as though every chapter introduced a new character \u2013 even well past the halfway point. I should have made a character list to keep track of who was who and who did what in the gene field. I felt no connection to any of the numerous protagonists and by the time they did something interesting, the chapter ended, a new character was thrown at me and I had to wait many pages to see them again, by which time I\u2019ve forgotten what they\u2019ve done. Despite the badass ending, the book was a big \u2018meh\u2019 for me. It was a plateau for the duration of the read, and never really built up to an explosive ending. I think I\u2019ll just stick to rereading Timeline and Jurassic Park . ...more I haven't read many good reviews of this book so I went into it with pretty low expectations, which I think helped. The biggest problem with this book is that it has no plot. Most chapters are only a few pages long and in most chapters new characters are introduced. There are a few recurring characters, but mostly we just get snippets. What we're looking at is what the world would be like if genetic engineering was successful and commonplace. What would happen if we could really put human genes I haven't read many good reviews of this book so I went into it with pretty low expectations, which I think helped. The biggest problem with this book is that it has no plot. Most chapters are only a few pages long and in most chapters new characters are introduced. There are a few recurring characters, but mostly we just get snippets. What we're looking at is what the world would be like if genetic engineering was successful and commonplace. What would happen if we could really put human genes into animals--could we create a cross between a human and a chimpanzee? Should we? What if we could modify the genes of wild animals so they would display logos for big companies--then those companies could \"sponsor\" animals and they'd be less likely to go extinct. If we could find the gene for drug addiction, could we fix it? Could we sue our parents for passing on to us defective genes? If your husband had a gene that predisposes him to infidelity, could he really be blamed for sleeping around? What if companies could patent genes? Would they then own the genes that we all carry in all of our cells? Would they have the right to retrieve those genes any time they want? This is just a book of what-ifs, no real plot, but I still found it to be somewhat entertaining. At the end I was annoyed by the author's note that repeats back the author's main points, in case you didn't get them in the story. If these sort of questions interest you, I'd recommend reading this, but if they don't, feel free to skip this. ...more Lots of interesting ethical issues come up in this book. Gene patenting, ownership of a person\u2019s body cells, treatment of hybrid apes, blah blah blah\u2026 Amongst all of this, and between the various news articles, is a confusing plot, or plots, about a woman being hunted for her cells, a man who invents a nasal spray that can make people mature, a talking ape, and a parrot called Gerard who can do arithmetic. Although interesting and fast paced, there was not enough focus on any one character for me Lots of interesting ethical issues come up in this book. Gene patenting, ownership of a person\u2019s body cells, treatment of hybrid apes, blah blah blah\u2026 Amongst all of this, and between the various news articles, is a confusing plot, or plots, about a woman being hunted for her cells, a man who invents a nasal spray that can make people mature, a talking ape, and a parrot called Gerard who can do arithmetic. Although interesting and fast paced, there was not enough focus on any one character for me to really care what happened to anyone. Out of all the characters in the book, I have to say I liked Gerard, the talking parrot, the best. I was much more interested in what happened to him than anyone, and after reading the book I have hopes that he ended up in some tropical location and started a nest with a nice female parrot and is now bringing about a new generation of parrot who can have conversations with each other. Maybe they will take over from us stupid humans when we go extinct because we spend too much time arguing in court, or fuck up our genetics\u2026or whatever. Not a bad read though, filled a gap. ...more What happens when a genetic engineering company, InGen, mucks about with DNA? No, wait. That was Jurassic Park. What happens when a genetic engineering company, Bio-Gen, mucks about with DNA? OK, well the plots aren't really that similar at all. Nevertheless, I couldn't help but compare the two story lines because my only experience with Michael Crichton up to this point was the Jurassic Park movie. So, I approached this book with a bias. I'm impressed with the author's ability to maintain multiple What happens when a genetic engineering company, InGen, mucks about with DNA? No, wait. That was Jurassic Park. What happens when a genetic engineering company, Bio-Gen, mucks about with DNA? OK, well the plots aren't really that similar at all. Nevertheless, I couldn't help but compare the two story lines because my only experience with Michael Crichton up to this point was the Jurassic Park movie. So, I approached this book with a bias. I'm impressed with the author's ability to maintain multiple parallel story lines and characters throughout the book, and somehow, seamlessly, bring them all together at the end. I was, in fact, surprised at the end. I love that in a story. Although certainly entertaining, it did come off a bit silly at times. I'm one of those personalities that can get all scared from the mildest of books. But, I found myself scoffing at points in the story when I KNEW I was supposed to be disturbed. Hard core suspense/thriller readers won't be impressed. But, scaredy-cats such as myself will undoubtedly enjoy it. ...more This could have been a thrilling book, really, but it definitely isn't! Crichton picked a very interesting topic (genetic engineering) but failed to make a coherent book out of it: a chaotic plot, uninteresting characters, disjointed storylines that are woven together towards the end of the book but don't make much sense, an ending that left characters and situations unresolved (not to mention the cuttings about the evolutionary fate of blondes?!)... \"Completely brilliant\", it says on the front This could have been a thrilling book, really, but it definitely isn't! Crichton picked a very interesting topic (genetic engineering) but failed to make a coherent book out of it: a chaotic plot, uninteresting characters, disjointed storylines that are woven together towards the end of the book but don't make much sense, an ending that left characters and situations unresolved (not to mention the cuttings about the evolutionary fate of blondes?!)... \"Completely brilliant\", it says on the front cover of this novel, which makes me wonder, did we read the same book??? This was definitely a thorough disappointment for me. Michael Crichton has written some great novels in the past, but \"Next\" isn't up to their standards. ...more A really great scientific/slightly futuristic thriller-style novel that gives you an insight into the dog eat dog world of genetics and biotechnology. The way all the stories intertwined was entertaining, and the book was obviously well researched, although the scientific language was easily understood. My only negative criticism is that the abundance of characters, chronologies and narrators was occasionally difficult to keep track of. The book has a great moral (well, several) that are littere A really great scientific/slightly futuristic thriller-style novel that gives you an insight into the dog eat dog world of genetics and biotechnology. The way all the stories intertwined was entertaining, and the book was obviously well researched, although the scientific language was easily understood. My only negative criticism is that the abundance of characters, chronologies and narrators was occasionally difficult to keep track of. The book has a great moral (well, several) that are littered throughout the story and in the author's notes at the end of the book, and it definitely opened up my eyes to the power of science in our modern world. ...more \u0627\u0644\u0643\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u064a\u0644\u062e\u0635 \u0645\u0639\u0646\u0649 \u0623\u0646 \u062a\u0643\u0648\u0646 \u0637\u0628\u064a\u0628\u0627\u064b \u0648\u0631\u0648\u0627\u0626\u064a\u0627\u064b \u0641\u064a \u0622\u0646 \u0645\u0639\u0627\u064b the true meaning of being a doctor and novels writer<---C>Michael Crichton</---C>", "Title": "Next"},
