{"Comments": "Well this is a tough review to write because this is Ron Currie's first book and I wish him well. And I really wanted to like this one a lot - you know when you get good vibes from a book as soon as you hear about it.<---F> And it isn't bad</---F>. But I just didn't really get where Ron Currie was coming from. The concept, which is in the blurb is that God,<---M> having taken human form</---M>, actually physically dies and never comes back. And the news gets out, and the book traces what then follows from this revelation Well this is a tough review to write because this is Ron Currie's first book and I wish him well. And I really wanted to like this one a lot - you know when you get good vibes from a book as soon as you hear about it. And it isn't bad. But I just didn't really get where Ron Currie was coming from. The concept, which is in the blurb is that God, having taken human form, actually physically dies and never comes back. And the news gets out, and the book traces what then follows from this revelation. Except it doesn't really. It's a series of short stories strung together like Julian Barnes' \"A History of the World in 10 and a Half Chapters\" rather than an actual novel, and all of these short stories would fit right into any \"Year's Best Science Fiction\" collection because that's what they are. Science fiction is as obsessed with God as everyone else, and frequently throws up theological speculations - \"The Sparrow\" by Mary Doria Russell, \"A Case of Conscience\" by James Blish, and \"Only Begotten Daughter\" by James Morrow in which God is born again as a human being, this time as a girl. Okay so what was the problem here? Ron is a very smooth writer, this is a fast read, and I loved the opening riff with Colin Powell (<---B>yes, that Colin Powell</---B>) - I thought I was in for a real treat. In fact the first chapter is the best short story I've read for a long time. After God's death we jump cut immediately to society-collapsing-and-everybody-dying. But here's the thing - why would it? Let's grant Ron his outre premise - okay, God's dead. Now what? Would everyone freak out? If so, why? Why would everyone believe this crazy God is dead stuff anyway? (Ron doesn't say). If they did why wouldn't they carry on turning up to work anyway, except for a few nutters? (Ron doesn't say). As I realised that Ron wasn't going to be focusing on the nuts and bolts of his conceit I got less interested and began to figure that he could therefore throw in any zany scenario (such as the war between the Post Modern Anthropologists and the Evolutionary Anthropologists) with the underlying unstated assumption that this is all happening because humans now know God is dead. So it began to feel slightly like I'd fallen for a carnival barker \"Step right up folks, see God die, yep right here in this show starts in five minutes only ten dollars God will actually die right in front of your very eyes, ten dollars only thankyew kind sir, step inside, find yourself a seat\". So the book began bouncing about like a balloon being batted by belligerent boys - caricatured, superficially political, not really serious, vaguely philosophical, like a book scampering around during a game of Musical Chairs, and finally not finding a chair to sit on, and then being out of the game completely. ...more This books reminds me of a man you meet in a cool bar, you have had a few drinks and the lighting is low. However you are bumping and groovin' to the beat when a man approaches you. He seems exciting at first, unlike the usual guy that you run into at this bar. Thing get going, you dance, he seems incredibly exotic and intoxicating, exactly what you have been looking for. He doesn't need to explain his opinions, he just has them, but he is so confident in what he says you can't help but hang ont This books reminds me of a man you meet in a cool bar, you have had a few drinks and the lighting is low. However you are bumping and groovin' to the beat when a man approaches you. He seems exciting at first, unlike the usual guy that you run into at this bar. Thing get going, you dance, he seems incredibly exotic and intoxicating, exactly what you have been looking for. He doesn't need to explain his opinions, he just has them, but he is so confident in what he says you can't help but hang onto his words, they seem to refreshing and new! Then the two of you decide to clear your heads and get some fresh air. You leave the bar hand in hand, wild thought flying through your head that finally you have met someone who are connecting with on ALL levels. Then POW! You go into the night air and you can see what he truly looks like, not as good as you had originally thought, but despite this you still feel the intellectual connection is there. The POW again, he starts to talk and finally you can understand what he has been whispering in your ear all night, and it turns out to be total crap! You are highly disappointed, despite all this you still stay around, maybe he will turn back into the man, who thought him to be back in the darken bar. Turns out not to be. Where . . .where did that man go?! This is exactly how, 'God is Dead' reads, and finishes! ...more First, you have to assume that God exists. Then, you have to assume that it would be possible for him to die. I can do these things. Willing suspension of disbelief and all that. However, that didn't stop the book from reading a little like a writing exercise, more for the benefit of the author than the reader. And I found the sole character who is featured in more than one chapter to be pretty un-compelling. And the ending felt kind of rushed. Still, the ideas explored are interesting. The book s First, you have to assume that God exists. Then, you have to assume that it would be possible for him to die. I can do these things. Willing suspension of disbelief and all that. However, that didn't stop the book from reading a little like a writing exercise, more for the benefit of the author than the reader. And I found the sole character who is featured in more than one chapter to be pretty un-compelling. And the ending felt kind of rushed. Still, the ideas explored are interesting. The book suggests that both worship and war are human nature, and if we have no deity we will find other things to revere and on which to disagree. It was a fun, easy read, but not awesome. ...more Whaapow! Jealous and inspired. The book starts out phenomenally and then just gets better and better. It\u2019s like watching someone tiptoe out onto a frozen pond, then slowly gain confidence, and soon he\u2019s jumping up and down, trying as hard as he can to smash his safety, inviting his friends out there, inviting a marching band, just confident and having a great time. A deft, highwire act of a book, never mind debut. Quick synopsis: God comes to earth in the form of a Darfur refugee and is killed b Whaapow! Jealous and inspired. The book starts out phenomenally and then just gets better and better. It\u2019s like watching someone tiptoe out onto a frozen pond, then slowly gain confidence, and soon he\u2019s jumping up and down, trying as hard as he can to smash his safety, inviting his friends out there, inviting a marching band, just confident and having a great time. A deft, highwire act of a book, never mind debut. Quick synopsis: God comes to earth in the form of a Darfur refugee and is killed by humans and eaten by feral dogs. Heartbreak, confusion, violence, loneliness, world war ensue. ...more Review buried in comments below (#2).... God is Dead is technically a collection of short stories loosely spanned over a period of several decades after God's death as a mortal on Earth. Its format becomes the greatest challenge, you never quite know what's happening and at what point you're in terms of the overall 'plot'. Except for the first story (which is truly remarkable), the rest fell short once you take them apart. They last couple of stories depend largely on the strength of the first one, and it becomes obvious as the narrat God is Dead is technically a collection of short stories loosely spanned over a period of several decades after God's death as a mortal on Earth. Its format becomes the greatest challenge, you never quite know what's happening and at what point you're in terms of the overall 'plot'. Except for the first story (which is truly remarkable), the rest fell short once you take them apart. They last couple of stories depend largely on the strength of the first one, and it becomes obvious as the narratives are increasingly literal and flat. By the way, the cover art is slightly deceiving. I was expecting some sort of Christopher Moore comedy but instead got a Philip Dick Dystopia. ...more When I first finished this book, I wrote an 800-word review (because that\u2019s what critics do). I thought I\u2019d completed the review until I met with my book club, but now I have a slew of other things to say, so bear with me for an extra 200 or so words. When I began reading <+++>God Is Dead</+++> , I didn\u2019t know (or perhaps had forgotten) that this is actually an interrelated short story collection/novel in stories, which is my jam. And since I\u2019ve been hearing for years now that this book is all kinds of aweso When I first finished this book, I wrote an 800-word review (because that\u2019s what critics do). I thought I\u2019d completed the review until I met with my book club, but now I have a slew of other things to say, so bear with me for an extra 200 or so words. When I began reading <+++>God Is Dead</+++> , I didn\u2019t know (or perhaps had forgotten) that this is actually an interrelated short story collection/novel in stories, which is my jam. And since I\u2019ve been hearing for years now that this book is all kinds of awesome, I\u2019m kicking myself for not reading this sooner. It\u2019s rich and complex, hilarious and devastating. As can be expected from a collection, the effectiveness of the stories varies. The first two sections, for example, work well as exposition for the book as a whole: Currie sets up God\u2019s death in the titular first story, and then he takes us through the subsequent shift from innocent optimism to shock and despondence in the second. Both stories are well written, engaging, and full of upward momentum for the entire collection. But for me, the book truly begins to shine with the third story, \u201cIndian Summer.\u201d In it, a group of high school friends, seeing no hope for themselves in a post-deity society, agree to put bullets through one another\u2019s brains. The intensity of the suicide pact, coupled with the bleakness of their situation, makes for some dark, quietly desperate moments. The stylization feels a trifle heavy-handed when the narrator and his buddy Rick have a heart-to-heart near the end, as their long paragraphs of dialogue sound more like one of Keith Morrison\u2019s over-the-top narrations on Dateline than they do earnest accounts of events. But the more I think about it, the more I feel that the hints of purpleness (more like a faint shade of lavender, really) and overwriting actually reveal the narrator\u2019s unreliability. Memory is always a revision of events, so in recreating the scene for us decades later, the narrator presents readers with a romanticized account of their discussion and colors the way the scene is interpreted. Is he trying to justify the events or cope with them? Or is there something else at play? Such open-endedness seems to be one of the things that frustrate people about the collection (and literary short stories in general), so it\u2019s no surprise that several of my book club cohorts felt that \u201cGrace,\u201d a three-page story in the center of the collection, was something of a throwaway. I, on the other hand, loved it. (Flash fiction: also my jam.) I love that a preacher, now useless as a saver of souls, is rescued by a retired paramedic with a hearing aid\u2014a saver of lives who is literally deaf to confessions, particularly his own son\u2019s confession that he, too, needs saving. I love that we don\u2019t realize until the very end that this son can identify with the downtrodden preacher\u2019s misery and loss. Most of all, I love that when contemplating this story on its own, outside the confines of the collection, the situation sounds fairly ordinary, as if we\u2019re just reading about a mentally unstable drunk, not a man of the cloth who has lost his meaning in life. The layers created by context make me contemplate these characters from different perspectives (not just their various POVs, but my own), and it all reminds me that these aren\u2019t just characters; they\u2019re people and therefore far more complex than we ever allow ourselves to assume with a quick read. If you\u2019re looking for a book that actually speculates on what the world would be like if God died, this isn\u2019t it. The stories have less to do with God being dead and more to do with humanity's search for reasons to live. In two of the three character-linked stories, for example, the scenarios have more to do with society\u2019s dependence on faith\u2014our need to reach out for something bigger than or at least beyond ourselves. So often, that faith is simply in one another. Or, when that\u2019s not enough, it\u2019s something that can\u2019t and won\u2019t judge us in this lifetime (even if we behave as if it will). The false idols that Currie chooses are comical, sometimes eerie reflections of the direction we\u2019re already headed in: the teen crush whom sixteen-year-old Arnold never talks to but text messages with all the frankness and introspection of prayer, the children whom parents coddle and idealize, the material goods we all purchase to distract us from the harshness of the world. This last example\u2014from the final story, \u201cRetreat\u201d\u2014particularly strikes me. In this, Arnold arrives in a town full of people forced to ingest pills that erased their memories. The only person whose memory is intact is a boy named Ty, who hid his pill under his tongue and spit it out later. The tactic is so obvious that it\u2019s initially a wonder the adults hadn\u2019t thought of it, but the narrative intimates that the pills were taken willingly, in an attempt to forget all the tragedies of the world. These adults bury themselves in the superficial satisfaction of infomercial gadgetry, but when Arnold confronts Ty\u2019s mother, she cries, revealing that either consciously or subconsciously, she remembers her suffering. This moment calls to mind the ending of Kurt Vonnegut\u2019s \u201cHarrison Bergeron,\u201d which made the scene even stronger for me, as they create the same startling, haunting effect. And though the whole book feels evocative of Vonnegut in humor and pathos, Currie succeeds in not feeling derivative at all. Basically, I can\u2019t say enough good things about this book. Since I\u2019m not Christian, I know I missed many of the religious references, so I\u2019m glad that my lack of knowledge in this area didn\u2019t hinder my enjoyment of the characters or the craftwork. That said, I\u2019m ready to read this again and attempt to uncover everything I\u2019d missed. ...more I read this in the airport when my flight was delayed. At one point, the fellow sitting across from me leaned forward. \"Excuse me,\" he said, \"but that's a very provocative title. Does the author make a good argument?\" \"It's fiction,\" I said, \"but yes.\" #awkwardairport2015 Very ambitious title. A collection of short stories describing what could happen following god's death. Each is very unique and the best is kept to the last part. I bought this book at Christmas time, and I very nearly put it back on the shelf because the cover appalled me. It features a dog sitting outside a cage. Inside the cage is another dog, curled up in a miserable little pile. I couldn\u2019t tell if the caged dog was dead or asleep and not knowing made it worse. In fact, just thinking about the picture is making my stomach hurt a little. I cannot abide it when bad things happen to animals. This reaction taints a lot of my interaction with the world. I I bought this book at Christmas time, and I very nearly put it back on the shelf because the cover appalled me. It features a dog sitting outside a cage. Inside the cage is another dog, curled up in a miserable little pile. I couldn\u2019t tell if the caged dog was dead or asleep and not knowing made it worse. In fact, just thinking about the picture is making my stomach hurt a little. I cannot abide it when bad things happen to animals. This reaction taints a lot of my interaction with the world. I bought a Jack Ketchum book knowing full well the plot begins with the death of a dog and even so, I had to stop reading it. I just couldn\u2019t take it. I hope Rugero Deodato, if there is an afterlife, spends a few years getting smacked around by a very large turtle and a couple of very angry pigs. So of course, given this tender-hearted tendency of mine coupled with my perverse desire to torture myself, I had to buy this book that featured a potentially dead dog on the cover being mourned by one of his own. My instincts were right. This book was going to break my heart and I knew it before I opened it. The plot of this book is a cliche, a hackneyed conversation every wine-cooler and cheap beer-filled college freshman has had: what would happen if God died? But despite the fact that the premise is not original, this book is surprisingly fresh and frightening, at turns tender and sickening, hopeful and horrible. While there were elements that did not work as well as others, the fearlessness in which Currie approaches this story allows me to overlook its weaker parts. Read my entire discussion here. ...more I bought this book on a City Lights staff recommendation. I thought it would be one of those \"funny\" books without much of substance, and I read it to read something enjoyable after finishing a torturous novel. Unlike that book of similar length, this one flew by, and in fact, I didn't want it to end as quickly as it did. It is a funny book, but is certainly not without substance. Comparisons to Vonnegut are appropriate, and that is no doubt partly why I liked it. This book contains a lot of absu I bought this book on a City Lights staff recommendation. I thought it would be one of those \"funny\" books without much of substance, and I read it to read something enjoyable after finishing a torturous novel. Unlike that book of similar length, this one flew by, and in fact, I didn't want it to end as quickly as it did. It is a funny book, but is certainly not without substance. Comparisons to Vonnegut are appropriate, and that is no doubt partly why I liked it. This book contains a lot of absurdity, like God taking the form of a human woman who is then eaten by dogs who are then able to talk; like people turning to the worship of children to replace their dead God; like a full on physical, bloody war between the Postmodern Anthropologists and Evolutionary Psychologists. Great fun, but more importantly, beneath the silliness lurks all kinds of weighty issues. Why do people need God to give meaning to their lives? If they can't worship one god, will they create another? How do we find meaning to our actions and lives without some great hereafter? How does our capability for morality lead us to be both more and less moral than creatures without such a capability? Do we control our actions or our fate? Does it matter? In his private moments, does Colin Powell really say things like, \"I'm black as night, motherfucker!\"? When I finished reading, I almost turned right around and read it again. I figure that's as good a recommendation as any. ...more I wanted to love this book -- I really, really did. \u00a0In fact, after reading Everything Matters!, I couldn't wait to read it to the point where I abandoned the other book I was reading to buy and read this one first. \u00a0So, believe me, giving it one star really hurts :( This book starts out very strong -- I was in love with the first story, and the next couple stories were fairly good too... but, then, the book seems to meet the same fate God did, and I found myself trudging along painfully through I wanted to love this book -- I really, really did. \u00a0In fact, after reading Everything Matters!, I couldn't wait to read it to the point where I abandoned the other book I was reading to buy and read this one first. \u00a0So, believe me, giving it one star really hurts :( This book starts out very strong -- I was in love with the first story, and the next couple stories were fairly good too... but, then, the book seems to meet the same fate God did, and I found myself trudging along painfully through the rest, first in hopes that it would get better, and then simply out of obligation to finish what I began. Towards the end, there was one other story I truly enjoyed, but not enough to warrant finishing the book. I wish I had just stopped while I was ahead with Everything Matters!, and not let this one crush my soul instead :( ...more This book was interesting but overall not as compelling as I think it could have been. There were so many big ideas that I felt just weren't fleshed out well enough. I mean, I guess it's up to you to invent whatever kind of world you want to envision god being dead in, but this felt like so many loose ends to me. I don't know if the alternative is writing a crazy long, epic novel, but there were many roads I would've continued down happily if I could have. Except the one about the wild dogs who This book was interesting but overall not as compelling as I think it could have been. There were so many big ideas that I felt just weren't fleshed out well enough. I mean, I guess it's up to you to invent whatever kind of world you want to envision god being dead in, but this felt like so many loose ends to me. I don't know if the alternative is writing a crazy long, epic novel, but there were many roads I would've continued down happily if I could have. Except the one about the wild dogs who ate god's body. That was a little too sad and bleak to me. What I really did enjoy about the book was the general exploration of what we would do in the true absence of religion. Like if something like this happened that could convince humanity, once and for all, that god doesn't really exist. Not only does \"he\" (I hate using that pronoun to represent god, who would surely transcend our earthly notions of gender) not exist, but actually dies. This is so different from there being no god in the first place. In the book, humanity is wracked by this sense of loss and confusion, and then this desperate drive to find something that would replace god. I think that this is a rather generous view of our species in many ways, because really, if you take a look around at where we're collectively headed, surely god is already dead and we are living with that reality. If we believed that a benevolent creator was looking down on us from on high, maybe we wouldn't be destroying the planet, letting people starve, defunding education, etc. I guess this is a bigger discussion than I'm prepared to have in this review, though. The end. ...more Every story in this book is a gem; honestly, the only flaw is that I wanted one more story to fill it out. See my review at http://perpetualfolly.blogspot.com Also, my review from Amazon: I don't think readers should over-examine this story collection/novel for its religious message, since the premise isn't theological -- it's just wildly imaginative. What if God manifested himself in Darfur in the body of a Dinka girl and died there? One answer is that the world, learning of God's death, spins ou Every story in this book is a gem; honestly, the only flaw is that I wanted one more story to fill it out. See my review at http://perpetualfolly.blogspot.com Also, my review from Amazon: I don't think readers should over-examine this story collection/novel for its religious message, since the premise isn't theological -- it's just wildly imaginative. What if God manifested himself in Darfur in the body of a Dinka girl and died there? One answer is that the world, learning of God's death, spins out of control. But another is that God wasn't really doing anything to stop calamity in the first place, so what has changed? Our fate is in our own hands, just as it was before. You could make either case from these stories, if that's what you want to do, but in the meantime you could just enjoy these very well made fictions, from the title story, \"God is Dead,\" in which Colin Powell visits the Sudan, to the last story, \"Retreat,\" in which the outcome of a war between the armies of the Evolutionary Psychologists and the Postmodern Anthropologists is decided. The characters are quirky, but believable, trying to cope with situations that, only in the context of a world that has just learned of God's death, are wholly credible. This is a terrific debut and should find readers of all stripes. ...more I bought this book purely because I was dashing into The Strand to get The Lacuna to read for my 2-person book club with Caitlin and I literally stopped dead in my tracks because I caught out of the corner of my eye a quality of line in the cover art that reminded me of the drawings in Dogs and Water one of my favorite \"\"graphic novels\"\" of all time. Much of Anders Nilsen's other stuff is pretty difficult to get your hands on and I must have had hope for a second that he had another big book tha I bought this book purely because I was dashing into The Strand to get The Lacuna to read for my 2-person book club with Caitlin and I literally stopped dead in my tracks because I caught out of the corner of my eye a quality of line in the cover art that reminded me of the drawings in Dogs and Water one of my favorite \"\"graphic novels\"\" of all time. Much of Anders Nilsen's other stuff is pretty difficult to get your hands on and I must have had hope for a second that he had another big book that everybody could buy instead of gorgeous limited edition sold-out pamphlets. So I bought this book even though I immediately saw the author was actually somebody else. It looks like it will be one of those books by an Emerging Author that could be really incredible or super-annoying, with no middle ground. I feel a basic aesthetic joy when I look at Anders Nilsen's art, like when a kid sees a delightful shoe, and I also feel instantly not only smart, but wise, when I look at a drawing of his. I smile, then nod thoughtfully to myself. Ah, I see. The book doesn't acknowledge the cover artist anywhere, but I looked it up online at home and that cover IS Anders Nilsen! Can your Kindle do that?!? It probably kind of can with some weird \"browse\" feature and one-tap library of congress citation lookup... Sigh... Ignore that thrown gauntlet, Kindle-lovers. ...more In God is Dead , Currie empathetically illustrates humanity's self-centered motivations in their relationship with God. What is more interesting is the fact that he does so by beginning with the premise that God has actually died. By accepting this premise, the reader can be entertained by mankind's need to believe in a God as a mixture less of hope and more of self-interest. Without the initial premise (God is dead)the reader is left with a social commentary reflecting the less entertaining reali In God is Dead , Currie empathetically illustrates humanity's self-centered motivations in their relationship with God. What is more interesting is the fact that he does so by beginning with the premise that God has actually died. By accepting this premise, the reader can be entertained by mankind's need to believe in a God as a mixture less of hope and more of self-interest. Without the initial premise (God is dead)the reader is left with a social commentary reflecting the less entertaining reality of a world in which the belief in God is used more to serve their own purposes than His. Throughout each chapter, Currie uses various short stories to portray man's unreasonable expectations of God in their relationship with Him as a friend who should bear responsibility for all things bad and be expected to fulfill the demands of the individuals ideal relationship with no hope of it being reciprocated (which is remarkably similar to the expectation that God places on humanity). Empathy,/i>, stage right> All together avoiding the question of the existence of God, Currie poses the question: Do humans naturally look to God for worship and adoration or are they looking to Him to receive the kind attention that they seldom receive from each other? I found this book entertaining, well-written, and thought-provoking and I hope you will too. ...more I quite enjoyed this collection of short stories. Straight off the bat, the author displays a strong hand with characterization when he describes god as tragically failed and powerless, someone who has not only lost the power to grant forgiveness and absolution to others, but seeks it for himself (herself?). Out of the lot, the interview with a feral dog who fed on the remains of the dead god and gains omniscience as a result, with tragic consequences, was one of my favorite stories. The slight I quite enjoyed this collection of short stories. Straight off the bat, the author displays a strong hand with characterization when he describes god as tragically failed and powerless, someone who has not only lost the power to grant forgiveness and absolution to others, but seeks it for himself (herself?). Out of the lot, the interview with a feral dog who fed on the remains of the dead god and gains omniscience as a result, with tragic consequences, was one of my favorite stories. The slight pinch of absurdity involved in a world where the Evolutionary Psychologist Forces and the Postmodern Anthropologist Marines are engaged in a bloody struggle that ends in a holocaust like scenario because of the population's willing ingestion of lobotomizing pills is also one of a string of stories worth mentioning as standouts. Overall, if you are intrigued by the premise, give this book a go. Chances are you'll come out of it like me, smiling wryly at places, sad at others and thoroughly entertained overall. ...more El punto de partida es que Dios ha muerto, a partir de ah\u00ed <---A>Ron Currie Jr.</---A> entrelaza varias historias en las que vemos el cambio que la muerte de Dios ejerce en la sociedad. Me ha gustado, tiene partes geniales pero tambi\u00e9n algunos problemas. El principal problema es que al ser relatos se notan altibajos, mientras algunos son brillantes y llenos de imaginaci\u00f3n, otros me resultaron m\u00e1s sosos y sin inter\u00e9s y el ritmo se rompe, acabas un relato y no te dan muchas ganas de seguir con el siguiente. Ot El punto de partida es que Dios ha muerto, a partir de ah\u00ed Ron Currie Jr. entrelaza varias historias en las que vemos el cambio que la muerte de Dios ejerce en la sociedad. Me ha gustado, tiene partes geniales pero tambi\u00e9n algunos problemas. El principal problema es que al ser relatos se notan altibajos, mientras algunos son brillantes y llenos de imaginaci\u00f3n, otros me resultaron m\u00e1s sosos y sin inter\u00e9s y el ritmo se rompe, acabas un relato y no te dan muchas ganas de seguir con el siguiente. Otro problema es que se queda en la superficie en todas las historias, dejando finales abiertos y sinceramente me hubiera gustado saber m\u00e1s y m\u00e1s, tanto de algunos personajes como del mundo que nos cuenta. Hace un tiempo descubr\u00ed a este autor por \"\u00a1Todo importa!\", una novela posterior a \u00e9sta que me encanta. \"Dios ha muerto\" fue su debut literario, un buen debut que sin duda ayud\u00f3 al autor para que a\u00f1os m\u00e1s tarde escribiera una novela tan buena como \"\u00a1Todo importa!\" ...more I consider many linked collections of short stories to be collections of short stories written by fine writers who woke up one day, usually after speaking with an agent, and wished they'd written a novel. Instead of going off and writing a novel, these people push their current collection into a new mold, then announce, even in the company of novelists, \"I just wrote a novel.\" All loud and proud. Ron Currie's God Is Dead is that rarity of linked collections, in that it uses it form to its advanta I consider many linked collections of short stories to be collections of short stories written by fine writers who woke up one day, usually after speaking with an agent, and wished they'd written a novel. Instead of going off and writing a novel, these people push their current collection into a new mold, then announce, even in the company of novelists, \"I just wrote a novel.\" All loud and proud. Ron Currie's God Is Dead is that rarity of linked collections, in that it uses it form to its advantage, giving us a story that ranges wider than the traditional novel can (and one that is told more efficiently than a non-traditional novel might have been). Read it for its structure, learn from its jumps in time, observe how the author's lens moves in and out, all with great finesse. With at least three great chapters, God Is Dead is well worth the read. ...more A crazy ride that leaves you in the ditch half way home. The first few short stories were pretty interesting. He has a Vonnegut-esque way of introducing hard-to-imagine ideas without really explaining them, but somehow making it flow in such a way that they are believable... at first. But where our beloved Kurt (RIP) only made you believe more as the story went on, Currie, flops haphazardly into scenarios that are beyond crazy and just downright pointless and mindless. It starts to seem like he A crazy ride that leaves you in the ditch half way home. The first few short stories were pretty interesting. He has a Vonnegut-esque way of introducing hard-to-imagine ideas without really explaining them, but somehow making it flow in such a way that they are believable... at first. But where our beloved Kurt (RIP) only made you believe more as the story went on, Currie, flops haphazardly into scenarios that are beyond crazy and just downright pointless and mindless. It starts to seem like he is trying to be a lot smarter than he is. If you try this book and get the over-whelming urge to stop reading half way through, do it. This is the first book I've ever forced my way through, and regretted it when I was done. But once again, to not be too negative, it started out well... ...more This is more of a 3.5 star book, I liked the book and it was really good. It's a very unique premise, God has taken the form of a refugee woman to see the hardships people are enduring up close and in person. While she's in the camp, there is a raid and everyone is killed. What follows is more like a series of short stories on how the world reacts when everyone learns that God is dead. Starting with that first day and then moving on in the future as everyone begins to move past this knowledge an This is more of a 3.5 star book, I liked the book and it was really good. It's a very unique premise, God has taken the form of a refugee woman to see the hardships people are enduring up close and in person. While she's in the camp, there is a raid and everyone is killed. What follows is more like a series of short stories on how the world reacts when everyone learns that God is dead. Starting with that first day and then moving on in the future as everyone begins to move past this knowledge and people begin to set up new idols to worship and new ideas to fight over. ...more I'm in the middle of this book I didn't know what to expect but literally I couldn't put it down. phenomenal narrative, interesting, controversial, wow, i'm into it. we'll see how it goes . .. pretty disappointed interesting book but too many turns and knots, and things to figure out, didn't really have any cohesiveness to it i didn't much care for the title at first, but the book was insightful and thought provoking. a what-if look at GOD coming to life as a woman and then dying. our behavior as humans after we learn that GOD is dead, turns shockingly close to the way we live our lives now... Post-modern fiction without those pesky footnotes. Vonnegut without the brilliance. Cormac McCarthy without all the blah blah blah. Plus, talking dogs. This book is depressing. It has a lot of interesting and clever ideas, but none of the narrative was compelling to me. It was hurt saddening and pointless. love it! I want to read it There will always be apocalypse: Not just genre writers like Stephen King, but literary writers love (particularly nowadays) to say something about us as we all die. There is Cormac McCarthy with his skies etched in lead, streets littered with corpses, and a man and boy who prove love is the only real thing that survives. And then Delillo who may not say the world is at end but shows that with 9/11 the world is at a point of tremendous change that impacts humanity on a very intimate level-- FALL There will always be apocalypse: Not just genre writers like Stephen King, but literary writers love (particularly nowadays) to say something about us as we all die. There is Cormac McCarthy with his skies etched in lead, streets littered with corpses, and a man and boy who prove love is the only real thing that survives. And then Delillo who may not say the world is at end but shows that with 9/11 the world is at a point of tremendous change that impacts humanity on a very intimate level-- FALLING MAN. Not to mention other short stories new books coming out (I cannot recall the name of one I read about concerning a terrorist nuclear attack on New York. I am too frightened to read that one) yada yada. What do we look like when the doo doo hits the fan? Everyone wants to know. (because well, after the past seven years of crap in our country? We start thinking about the end.) But I doubt any of the books tackle the human race, the question of survival, our ultimate ridiculousness like this generation Y writer, Ron Currie. This man is a force to be reckoned with. He writes with energy, courage and a satirical twinkle. He tackles our greatest fears, our eternal flaws, and senseless wars (this one looking to be the beginning of apocalypse) with humor and absurdity because lets face it, if we blow ourselves up, ruin our world, it\u2019s absurd. Unlike McCarthy who doesn\u2019t say boo about the why, Ron says a whole lot about why. By using absurdism, his statement about why is even more powerful. God comes down to Sudan as Dinka woman in the Darfur region. If God wants to suffer, be spit upon, stoop as low as one can get in order to be as miserable as us humans, yeah, a woman is the right choice, and a woman in Darfur is perfect. God is not omniscient and powerful. God does not know everything. He just started everything. God is a regular guy. God is feeling a bit guilty. And God is killed, of course, like thousands of other women in Sudan, by men. And this sets off chaos. Dogs eat God and are empowered. They speak Aramaic, have compassion, and obtain magical gifts. One dog survives and is interviewed. It\u2019s hard to tell if he gives truthful answers because he feels so sorry for humans he lies to them to bring hope. And what does this kind of powerless and hopeless dog-God say to the ultimate question: now what? \u201cYou\u2019re as naked and alone in this world as you were before finding me.\u201d And that idea, naked and alone, creates chaos. Bored and thirsty for an idol, parents start worshipping children. (my favorite story). There are suicide packs. There is your basic insanity, the kind that has nothing to do with God being dead, but now takes on a new significance. The story of how the actions of an insane serial killer impacts family is very realistic, excellently portrayed and, of course, now oddly ironic. Who exactly is mad? There is isolation, misunderstanding. And ultimately there is war. Without God, war now develops between philosophies\u2014genetic proclivity versus free will. USA believes in free will and instigates this war that is fought elsewhere. The story ends as opposing troops march through Mexico towards the US border where our government has put up a sign, a kind of surrender. The note on that sign is so hilarious, so right on, that there is no way to even express how perfect it is. You simply must read the whole book, then that sign, then the end. This book is brilliant. ...more Not many books that you wish were significantly longer, this is one of them. What an incredibly creative premise, considering one of the short stories involves a man meeting a dog for an interview, when the dog has eaten the body of an african woman who's body God has entered and proceeded to die in. The chapter/tale featuring Colin Powell (think its the first) is superb. In fact the book starts as well as any book in recent memory. In fact, its not absurd to say if the book had kept up with the Not many books that you wish were significantly longer, this is one of them. What an incredibly creative premise, considering one of the short stories involves a man meeting a dog for an interview, when the dog has eaten the body of an african woman who's body God has entered and proceeded to die in. The chapter/tale featuring Colin Powell (think its the first) is superb. In fact the book starts as well as any book in recent memory. In fact, its not absurd to say if the book had kept up with the first chapter throughout it would be an all time great. It doesn't, but thats a big ask anyway. Some of it is 5-star, some probably a 3 for me, when the Post Modern Anthropologist War against the Psychology lads features in the future I lost interest a bit. Net result : 4 Would have been good to have heard more from God, I think, but you can't go too far wrong with a talking dog. In fact Im going to sulk about it being \u00a38 on kindle so knocked a star off. ...more I was fully expecting to love this book. Comparisons to Vonnegut? Great! Cover illustrations by Anders Nilsen ? Fantastic! Interesting plot hook? I'm in! But my experience with the book was, unfortunately, not as satisfying as I was hoping for. The first chapter, featuring a blustery, caricature-grade Colin Powell stomping around the Darfur region of the Sudan, presented a rocky start for me. It seemed, to me, as if Currie were trying too hard to be funny and edgy. As a result, I found the first c I was fully expecting to love this book. Comparisons to Vonnegut? Great! Cover illustrations by Anders Nilsen ? Fantastic! Interesting plot hook? I'm in! But my experience with the book was, unfortunately, not as satisfying as I was hoping for. The first chapter, featuring a blustery, caricature-grade Colin Powell stomping around the Darfur region of the Sudan, presented a rocky start for me. It seemed, to me, as if Currie were trying too hard to be funny and edgy. As a result, I found the first chapter to be neither very funny nor very edgy. The second chapter, following Dani Kitchen as she drove around in her Grand Am on the day of her graduation from high school, recaptured my attention. Dani felt real in a way that Currie's version of Colin Powell did not. And the end to the chapter, in particular, showed me what Currie is capable of as a writer. But then the third chapter lost me again, as ten boys, in the aftermath of God's death, make a suicide pact as civilization falls apart around them. Here, the problem was not caricature or overabundant edginess, but a lack of believability. Most teenage boys I knew in high school, faced with nationwide anarchy, would thrive--or at least try to thrive. Yes, a handful of kids might lose it, but ten close friends all deciding to give up together? Lord of the Flies I believe; the male version of The Virgin Suicides , not so much. But then the fourth chapter was near-brilliant. The government-sponsored (government-mandated, really) Child Adulation Prevention Psychiatrist is ingenious. And so it went. I enjoyed the chapter that introduced the world war between the Postmodern Anthropologists and the Evolutionary Psychologists, but at the same time I felt as if Currie were focusing on his characters so narrowly that these inevitable, fascinating changes in a culture that knows, beyond a doubt, that God is dead, were just out of my peripheral vision. I loved the detail of teenagers writing devotional text messages to some other random teenager they'd never met, whom they prayed to as a sort of indifferent deity-figure (and also had a supplicant of his/her own, from whom he/she received devotional text messages that he/she deleted without reading). But I wanted more of these kinds of details. I understand there's a fine line between telling too little and going overboard into expository world-building mode, which will irrevocably bog down even the most interesting novel--but I felt as if I were missing some essential information in those later chapters, which led to a sort of detachment on my part. I can see why Currie has garnered such attention as an inventive writer, and I look forward to giving one of his other books a shot, but this one didn't quite charm me the way I thought it would. ...more<---C>Ron Currie Jr.</---C>", "Title": "God Is Dead"},
