{"Comments": "<+++>The Circle Trilogy: The Complete Trilogy in One Epic Edition</+++>All three of these books were amazing. I didn't really start to \"get into\" the story too much until the second book, Red. Then I couldn't put it down! <---A>Ted Dekker</---A> did a great job in writing this inspiring novel. It was really exciting as well as impacting. I read it during a rough time in my personal life and it really gave me a new view about my relationship with God. That was probably the most important thing that I will say about the Circle Trilogy.<---F> Giving glory to 'Elyon'</---F>..God. The last book, All three of these books were amazing. I didn't really start to \"get into\" the story too much until the second book, Red. Then I couldn't put it down! Ted Dekker did a great job in writing this inspiring novel. It was really exciting as well as impacting. I read it during a rough time in my personal life and it really gave me a new view about my relationship with God. That was probably the most important thing that I will say about the Circle Trilogy. Giving glory to 'Elyon'..God. The last book, White, was absolutely amazing. It actually brought me close to tears in a few parts. Well-written,<---M> good plot</---M>, and the memorable characters puts this at the top of my list. I would highly recommend this book to teens and adults. It is a bit intense and keeps you on the edge of your seat, dying to know what happens in the next chapter. I read the whole trilogy in 4 days and couldn't decide what to read after I finally put it down. Bravo, Ted Dekker. ...more THIS IS THE BEST TRILOGY I HAVE EVER READ IN MY WHOLE ENTIRE LIFE. It's packed with action, utels of suspense, fear, confusion, romance, and mystery. The main character, Tomas Hunter, is stuck between two realities (when he falls asleep in one he wakes up in the other) and ends up having to save them both. One world is present day with a sneaky and very intelligent terrorist on the lose with the only vaccine to a deadly contagious virus that he has infected upon all of the US. In the alternate r THIS IS THE BEST TRILOGY I HAVE EVER READ IN MY WHOLE ENTIRE LIFE. It's packed with action, utels of suspense, fear, confusion, romance, and mystery. The main character, Tomas Hunter, is stuck between two realities (when he falls asleep in one he wakes up in the other) and ends up having to save them both. One world is present day with a sneaky and very intelligent terrorist on the lose with the only vaccine to a deadly contagious virus that he has infected upon all of the US. In the alternate reality, the world's evil is all physical, and no longer just spiritual and mental. There is the green forest, the remnants of the good and truth in the world with elion, God, and the black forest with Tonni, representing Satan. One of the creatures has come to Tonni's side and given him a foothold to attack and take over the green forest. The whole earth is being attacked. Thomas Hunter must save both worlds and he finds there is more to it than just outliving everyone else; it may indeed mean dying in order to live. I recommend this book over all other books (except the Bible of course)... it is my favorite book (even though it's three) of all times!!! PS. I recommend all Ted Dekker books... i have never EVER been disappointed! :D ...more An absolutely spell-binding retelling of the salvation story from the Bible. Ted Dekker does an amazing job at giving the reader a sensory experience of the spiritual world around us and a dynamic glimpse at the fact that Christians really do live in two realities at once--both realities threatened by evil. The Good News is that Good has already triumphed and now works romancing those who would be His bride. Evil will not prevail! I highly recommend these books to you. I'm definitely going to be An absolutely spell-binding retelling of the salvation story from the Bible. Ted Dekker does an amazing job at giving the reader a sensory experience of the spiritual world around us and a dynamic glimpse at the fact that Christians really do live in two realities at once--both realities threatened by evil. The Good News is that Good has already triumphed and now works romancing those who would be His bride. Evil will not prevail! I highly recommend these books to you. I'm definitely going to be diving into the rest of Dekker's books in this series. ...more This was an excellent sci-fi/thriller. I really enjoyed the premise of the book and Dekker really paints a good picture with his words. When I first started reading Black, it took a little bit to figure out what was happening but once you do the story becomes a rollercoaster ride. Played Russian roulette at the library and grabbed this because the first book's Graphic design was interesting as was the title. I was confronted with tons of religious imagery and a strange plot line of a character stuck between two worlds \"dreaming\" of both. I just couldn't get into it. I'm a person who likes to know the ending no matter what so I skimmed the better part of the whole trilogy and just wasn't impressed. WARNING, THIS BOOK MAY CHANGE YOUR LIFE! That's really all I can say without spoiling it but seriously, read it! Black \u2014 2 stars I quite like allegorical Christian fiction. I don't read much of it, but when I do I always enjoy it on some level. Sometimes things can get a bit out of hand, though, and I fear that that might be what has happened in Black , because if you'd ask me to sum up the book in one word, it'd be \"silly\". Don't get me wrong, I liked quite a lot of the allegories in this book - Teeleh/Satan, Tanis/Adam and the lure of the forbidden water/fruit, especially - but others were simply bizarre. Black \u2014 2 stars I quite like allegorical Christian fiction. I don't read much of it, but when I do I always enjoy it on some level. Sometimes things can get a bit out of hand, though, and I fear that that might be what has happened in Black , because if you'd ask me to sum up the book in one word, it'd be \"silly\". Don't get me wrong, I liked quite a lot of the allegories in this book - Teeleh/Satan, Tanis/Adam and the lure of the forbidden water/fruit, especially - but others were simply bizarre. Elyon in the guise of a young boy was just weird, and the Great Romance thing was cheesy and boring. As far as writing goes, Dekker seems to have a thing for pastels. I'm almost pleased that the book ended with the colored forest being destroyed, because after four hundred pages of reading about shimmering shades of blue and red and purple and pink, and juicy fruits that dribbled with juice, and golden this and topaz that, I was on the verge of stabbing myself in the eye with a spoon. The strange thing is, Dekker's language isn't really flowery in that sense of the word - he spends a lot of time extolling the beauty of the colored forest, but when it comes to characters he doesn't really have much to say. The main characters aren't as flat as they are... nondescript. If you'd ask me to describe them and what makes them tick, I probably wouldn't be able to do it. I simply have no idea who these people really are (especially Valborg Svensson - I fear Dekker might be confusing Switzerland with Sweden, because that name sure ain't Swiss (not to mention that Valborg isn't even a male name)). When it comes to Thomas Hunter, the main character... He's a smidgen Gary Stu, a dollop of idiot and a nugget of uninteresting. Most of these come about because he doesn't hesitate to tell people about his dreams of an alternative life in the Forest of Many Colors, where bats talk and no one wears shoes, and then demands that everyone take him seriously. He sounds like a nutcase, gets upset when people don't believe him (like a nutcase) and tries to convince them that he's telling the truth in ridiculous ways (like a nutcase). If I were a secondary character I wouldn't believe a word that came out of his mouth, and the fact that the characters in Black actually do is slightly disturbing and kind of a cop out, because they're being far too accommodating for me to take the plot seriously. On the topic of Elyon/God, the \"character\" is such a disappointment. Elyon comes across as childish and insecure; like a fourteen year old girl clinging to her crush, Elyon latches on to Thomas and makes him promise not to leave. \"Never leave me, Thomas. Tell me that you'll never leave me!\" he says, and then tops it off with a chorus of \"I love you I love you I love you\" like some kind of desperate teenager. Even without the whole Fall of Man allegory, I wouldn't have been surprised that the colored forest got over run - Elyon is such a weak and helpless being that it was inevitable. Where's the righteous anger and just judgement? Where's the sovereign God in all of this? Also, I'm kind of weirded out by the fact that the colored forest is supposedly post-Armageddon, yet evil still roams free (not to mention that man falls again ). Had the dreams taken place in an alternative universe it wouldn't be a problem, but since it's implied that it's the same timeline... It's not a big thing, but it bugs me (just like the implied Monique/Hunter thing bugs me - it would have been okay if Monique looked like Rachelle or they were somehow connected, but since they're apparently not... It's a bit creepy, to be honest). Still, this book is kind of a I-take-what-I-can-get kind of deal. As far as Christian fantasy goes, it's not too bad. Red \u2014 3 stars Red is a whole lot more interesting than its predecessor, Black . The allegories are better, as is the writing; the action is more engaging; and there are less rainbow colored forests and more blood thirsty desert bandits (always a plus). First off, I have to admit that when I first read this book a few years ago I didn't quite pick up on the Justin/Christ parallels. Maybe I was distracted by other things, maybe the desert landscape made me expect Thomas to somehow be Moses (thus displacing events a good many years); either way, the \"aha! moment\" I experienced with Justin's death continues to be one of the greatest reader experiences I've ever had. It's not often I'm so completely blindsided by a plot twist and I have to take my hat off to Dekker for that one, even though reading through the book now again, several years later, I can't believe I didn't see it coming. That said, the character of Justin leaves me scratching my head, because I'm looking for Christ like qualities and I just don't see many of them. Surely it would have been better if Justin hadn't been a warrior? Or if it'd been the Forest People (Jews) who'd been the driving force behind his death instead of the Scabs (gentiles)? And why is he morphing into a weepy little kid at random moments? And there's still the issue of Elyon's characterization (see above review of Black ). I enjoyed the fact that it seemed like the book's content favored the \"future\" world rather than the \"current\" one. Because virus outbreaks and politics in all their glory, nothing beats sword fighting and explosions. It also bothered me that all the world leaders seem to be completely incompetent and bewildered when faced with an international crisis; surely the brightest minds in the world would be able to come up with something - seriously, anything - better than relying on a twenty five year old barista who, frankly, is a bit of a fruitcake? If you question someone's judgement or experience and their response is to perform a series of karate moves (or worse, rip their shirt off to show you their scars (most awkward scene ever written, perhaps?)), then you should probably think twice about trusting that person with the fate of humanity as a whole. I'm just sayin'. Still, I quite enjoyed the book in spite of (or perhaps because ) all its shortcoming (because I'm always happiest when I have something to rant about). White \u2014 1 star To give an indication as to where this review is going: I read the first few chapters of this book, put it aside, and promptly forgot all about it for almost a week. It was a happy (but brief) period of blissful ignorance. If Black is all about forest loving hippies who shun shoes, and Red is about epic sword battles in the desert, then White revolves around the epic romance of Thomas and Chelise. And by \"epic\" I actually mean \"hot mess\". Because seriously, Dekker's attempt at writing a believable love story is the most out-of-the-blue, sloppily handled, clich\u00e9 riddled, cringe worthy piece of romance I have ever read. It is very possible that it doesn't get any worse than this, folks. It's not that the pairing is confusing and unbelievable; it's not that the characters insist on calling each other \"my love\" and speak like Shakespeare wrote their dialog; it's not that the Hero, in the face of their doomed love, likes to weep single tears of sorrow down a rugged cheek; it's not that their plot line reads like a rejected Disney film script with an all-mouse cast... Oh, no, actually - it is. Never before have I cringed and facepalmed my way through so many pages. I didn't know you could get such bad second hand embarrassment from reading professionally published fiction. It's like Dekker, after \"neatly\" wrapping up his 21st century plot line, realized that he actually needed a resolution for the dream world too and, stumped, decided to use that Horde princess he briefly mentioned in a stray paragraph in Red (I do realize that the whole thing was most likely planned, but I prefer my version because I like giving Dekker the excuse of being the victim of time constraints and stress rather than simply being a downright awful writer. Because wow, Dekker. Wow...). And it's not like one can ignore the Thomas/Chelise plot either, because as previously mentioned, that's pretty much all White is - an ode to their romance. The virus/nuke situation in the other word is downgraded to a subplot (and I use that word generously), because heaven knows that it's more interesting to read about two characters sitting in a library, crying over a book and making eyes at each other while trying to ignore the brimming UST. The bad really did outweigh the good in this book. Dekker was cutting corners through the whole thing: using Johan to turn Carlos, like the flick of a switch, was such a cop out. The fact that Thomas blood was the key to it all was downright disappointing, because it was such an obvious solution that it was almost too obvious, and I was teetering on the brink of respecting Dekker for not taking the easy way out when, to my utter despair, he totally did. The characters spend an unhealthy amount of time weeping, because apparently turning into pacifists means that they're now a bunch of pansies. Even Elyon/Justin can't help but desperately sob every time he appears, and by the end of the trilogy I didn't care if he was some sort of allegory for God - I wanted to punch Justin in the face because he was that obnoxious. And what was up with the Elyon/God parallels anyway? Elyon gets a fair deal of screen time, and the characters are certainly acknowledging his existence, so I find it strange that it takes them three whole books to start connecting the dots between the Great Romance and Christianity (the MC was raised by a chaplain, for crying out loud!). And even when they do all agree that that's the way the land lays, no one seems to care about making peace with God. They're all about to most likely die in a few days, and they could care less about the salvation of their souls. Thomas witnessed Justin's sacrifice, which certainly moved him, and he claims to love Elyon above all else, and yet he never bothers picking up a Bible or researching the similarities between the two religions. This trilogy is supposed to be Christian fiction; I simply can't give this a pass. Dekker also seems to get hung up on certain words or phrases and goes through long phases of using said words as often as he possibly can; in the first books everyone's eyes would twinkle and people would wink at each other all the time , and in White there seems to be a spitting epidemic; \"he spit to the side\", \"she spit on the floor\", \"he spit before answering\", \"she looked away and spit\". It's ridiculous. That said, it wasn't all bad. Most of it was, but... I enjoyed the fact that the Horde couldn't read the Book of Histories, and the epilogue was kind of interesting. The fact that France was trying to take over the world never ceased to amuse me. I was even planning on giving the book two whole stars, but then I got to the ending. Thomas has spent most - if not all - of the books being somewhat of a Gary Stu. That's fine, I can live with that. But with the blood theme that's been a constant red thread throughout the books (Thomas' blood enabling dreaming, Justin's sacrifice turning the lakes red, etc. etc.) the ending seems downright inappropriate. Thomas dying to save the world I can stomach, but the way it was worded, the things it implied: \"his blood saved the world\", \"he gave his life for the world\", \"his sacrifice saved mankind\"... Sound familiar? As a Christian, I balked at that; I don't appreciate it when the MC is turned into a Christ figure. Overall, reading White was like pulling teeth, a disappointment which, looking back, has dampened my enjoyment of the trilogy as a whole. I reread the books because I hadn't written a review and I wanted to add one; from my first read through I remembered that the trilogy were pretty mediocre, but it was actually worse than I could ever recall. ...more Black (Book One): What would you do if you thought you were the only person in the world with information that would save mankind? Could you convince your one and only sibling (and ally) to believe that your dreams were prophetic? What if she just happened to have sleeping medication that enabled you to get information from the future to help the present world? What if the future world was WAY better than the present world? Would you try to stay there? What if the future, better world was ripped Black (Book One): What would you do if you thought you were the only person in the world with information that would save mankind? Could you convince your one and only sibling (and ally) to believe that your dreams were prophetic? What if she just happened to have sleeping medication that enabled you to get information from the future to help the present world? What if the future world was WAY better than the present world? Would you try to stay there? What if the future, better world was ripped to shreds? Would you go back to the present and try to make the best of it, Raison Virus and all? Thomas Hunter is forced to answer all of these questions, and I liked \"being there\" to see what he'd decide. Red (Book Two): \"Dream big.\" Classroom posters and graduation cards encourage youth to do just that, but when Kara, Thomas's sister, encourages him to \"dream big\", Thomas takes her literally and returns a much older, much wiser man, a future warrior in fact. Yet despite all his wisdom and knowledge, Thomas joins the masses in condemning Justin, and I, the reader, did too. Thank you, Ted Dekker, for the vivid reminder that my diseased self shed innocent blood and for the sinking realization that I am no better than a doubting Thomas. White (Book Three): Until yesterday I used to think that romance novels were my nemesis. \u201cThey clog up too much shelf space at local thrift stores,\u201d I\u2019d say. \u201cIf the general populace wasn\u2019t so obsessed with reading about rippling biceps and buxom blondes, folks like me would have an easier time finding good books cheap!\u201d Then I realized that I had just spent the past two weeks reading The Circle Trilogy, which is all about romance, so much so that the Forest People, the Circle and, eventually, the Horde enjoy playing out what they call the Great Romance. Public displays of affection, self-sacrifice, and mercy abound in White. In fact, I was so inspired to love on a greater scale that after finishing Book Three (in which love knows no boundaries), I called up my widowed grandmother to see if she\u2019d like some of the dinner only my sister and I were going to share. Our subsequent dinner together was one that I won\u2019t soon forget. So I now ask myself: Why don\u2019t I live out more fully what He\u2019s written to His beloved, His church, His bride? Why am I not showing others that they are worth dying for? Realizations like this made the Trilogy worth reading. I\u2019m quite familiar with the Gospel story, but I\u2019ve never read about it like this before. In Book Three, Dekker helped me understand the struggles of early Christians and church leaders. I was convicted at how I judge others and awestruck by the reminder that Christ sees believers as His bride! If loads of people in my area spend loads of time reading loads of books about romance (or watching movies about romance or reading articles about romance or talking about/offering advice concerning/wishing for romance), \u201cthe fields are as white in the world!\u201d The need to share about the perfect, all-encompassing, eternity changing, free love of God is great, hence The Great Romance. After all, Fabio can't do what Jesus can. :) (Now onto Green and the other six related books\u2026) ...more I'm not a fan of Christian fiction at all (I disliked the Chronicles of Narnia series as a child; as an adult and middle school English teacher I recently started re-reading the Narnia series to refresh my memory, and found I still disliked them), so I was not expecting to enjoy this book/trilogy (my first of Ted Dekker). I was totally blown away and was totally hooked by the first two books in the trilogy (Black and Red), but found that the last one, White, was not as well-written. Many element I'm not a fan of Christian fiction at all (I disliked the Chronicles of Narnia series as a child; as an adult and middle school English teacher I recently started re-reading the Narnia series to refresh my memory, and found I still disliked them), so I was not expecting to enjoy this book/trilogy (my first of Ted Dekker). I was totally blown away and was totally hooked by the first two books in the trilogy (Black and Red), but found that the last one, White, was not as well-written. Many elements of the plot were predictable and the dialogue not as tight. If I was rating just the first two, I would give it 4 stars, but the third book was a letdown. ...more Book two of the Circle Trilogy finds Thomas still caught between two worlds. In one he is a respected leader trying to help his people from and agonizing calamity that will end life as they know it. In there other world he is trying to stop the release of the deadliest air-borne virus ever created. Thomas must find a way to change history--or face the destruction of both two worlds. Time is running out! Read the trilogy to find out how or if Thomas can change history. This book is a true page tu Book two of the Circle Trilogy finds Thomas still caught between two worlds. In one he is a respected leader trying to help his people from and agonizing calamity that will end life as they know it. In there other world he is trying to stop the release of the deadliest air-borne virus ever created. Thomas must find a way to change history--or face the destruction of both two worlds. Time is running out! Read the trilogy to find out how or if Thomas can change history. This book is a true page turner. ...more These stories defy explanation. All I can say is that this is truly Dekker's finest. The story of redemption interwoven into two completely different realities, plus a love story? What more could I ask for? I ONLY read historical romance novels. When my sister, mom and aunt were all excited, talking about this series, I felt left out. I stole my sisters copy and couldn't put it down from the moment I started reading it. This is the best book I have EVER read. VERY good. Gets pretty deep and theological - as Dekker does a lot in his writing. Brace yourself. ;) Whatever review I write simply will not give this epic trilogy enough credit. So just read it for yourself. :) Id et quo est quia dolores numquam aperiam. At et accusantium vel fuga et sunt. Ut in omnis et. Quibusdam sed nobis. THAT WAS AMAZING. Read it. I recommend it to everyone. Have a box of tissues nearby. :'D BEST CHRISTIAN FANTASY BOOK I'VE EVER READ, besides LOTR and Narnia. What a beautiful analogy of God's love for humanity! Overall I'm impressed with Ted Dekker's ability to have two different time period happening for one person at once. He makes is so seemless and natural, that the reader does not have to struggle with what is going on. If you like Biblical allegories, this one's for you. If you don't really care about religion one way or another, it's still a good book. If you hate anything to do with religion and the mere thought of it makes you ill, you probably don't want to read this. I did enjoy the series, Overall I'm impressed with Ted Dekker's ability to have two different time period happening for one person at once. He makes is so seemless and natural, that the reader does not have to struggle with what is going on. If you like Biblical allegories, this one's for you. If you don't really care about religion one way or another, it's still a good book. If you hate anything to do with religion and the mere thought of it makes you ill, you probably don't want to read this. I did enjoy the series, but I probably won't be heading towards GREEN anytime soon or any of the other series that tie into this one. While entertaining, I spent enough time in Ted Dekker's world(s) for now. Someday probably, but not this year. I rather read all the books that tie into Stephen King's Dark Tower series first (which by the way the names Roland and Martyn was snuck into this series just barely and I hardly think it was a coincidence). The following was a synopsis of each as I finished them. BLACK Just finished it. I'm glad I have the trilogy because the way this ended I would have gone nuts until I had RED in my hands. Thomas Hunter is an unpublished writer with a sketchy past. As his past catches up with him, he is thrown in another world while he sleeps. The world turns out to be our future after the event called \"The Great Deception\". Tom and his sister then start their chase around the world to try to stop this event from happening. Thomas Hunter has woken up in the Dark Forest and has bumped his head. He has no memory of his past, but he knows the black bats with red eyes are not good. He also knows he shouldn't drink the water. He follows a white bat knowing it's the right thing to do and barely makes it across the bridge to the colored forest (Garden of Eden). Once across he passes out from his multiple wounds and gashes then dreams of another world, the past, what they refer to as \"The Histories\". Each world is just as real as the other and when he goes to sleep he is unsure of which is a reality and which is a dream. So far very well put together, the two worlds flow seamlessly into each other. The Biblical allegories are obvious. RED As BLACK ends with Thomas eating the Rambutan fruit and not dreaming of the \"Histories\" for fifteen years, while his body is asleep in Bangcock and Carlos is holding a gun to his sleeping head, I eagerly jumped right into RED. Thomas has become leader of the Forest People battling with the Horde who an affront to Elyon's way of life. A breakthrough happens with Rachelle and Monique as each falls asleep next to him. Their blood mixes with his and they dream about being the other, so that Rachelle helps to rescue Monique and Monique gets to meet Elyon. There is a traitor among them named Justin who speaks of peace between the Forest People and the Horde. I am disappointed that I'm done with this second book and no one has hypnotized Thomas yet. Oh, and there is a little Stephen King/Gunslinger reference (at least in my mind), when one of the Horde's generals (a real bad guy) is named Martyn and Thomas goes incognito into the Horde and calls himself Roland. WHITE The Great Romance culminates in the wooing of Chelise, Qurong's (Tannis') daughter. Both Teelah and Justin want her as their bride. Will Thomas win her heart or will it be Woref? ...more Was the most intriguing trilogy I ever read. I\u2019m not usually a fan of \u201cChristian fiction\u201d as a genre, but then again, Dekker himself challenges the use of that term to describe his writing. Last week I actually re-read the trilogy \u2014 the books are individually titled \u201c Black \u201c, \u201c Red \u201c, and \u201c White \u201d \u2014 in anticipation of a new, fourth book, \u201c Green \u201c, released last week, that is supposed to bring the story \u201cfull circle\u201d. It will still be known as a \u201ctrilogy\u201d, because Dekker is calling this fourth book, \u201cBook Zero\u201d. This is probably the best piece I\u2019m not usually a fan of \u201cChristian fiction\u201d as a genre, but then again, Dekker himself challenges the use of that term to describe his writing. Last week I actually re-read the trilogy \u2014 the books are individually titled \u201c Black \u201c, \u201c Red \u201c, and \u201c White \u201d \u2014 in anticipation of a new, fourth book, \u201c Green \u201c, released last week, that is supposed to bring the story \u201cfull circle\u201d. It will still be known as a \u201ctrilogy\u201d, because Dekker is calling this fourth book, \u201cBook Zero\u201d. This is probably the best piece of allegorical fiction I\u2019ve ever read, while simultaneously being a page-turning thriller in the typical Ted Dekker style. The main character, Thomas Hunter, gets a bump on the head, at which point he wakes up in an alternate world. Every time he falls asleep in one world, he wakes up in the other. There is lots of action in both realities, and Thomas is the key to saving both worlds through knowledge received in the other. While the story itself is fascinating, the real treasure here is his depiction of the history of salvation that is worked out through the \u201calternate\u201d reality, where metaphorical themes from the Bible become tangible. Highly recommended, and I can\u2019t wait for my copy of \u201cGreen\u201d to arrive! You can purchase \u201cThe Circle Trilogy\u201d here . ...more I just finished the first book, \"Black\" and it was fascinatingly weird. Whenever the main character falls asleep in one world - Denver, modern day - he wakes up in another - a \"New Earth\" with talking white bats and magical healing water. At first, he couldn't quite figure out which one was the dream world, and which one was the reality - then it turned out they were connected. You really have to suspend belief to buy into this story. If you're the type who would say, \"That would never happen in I just finished the first book, \"Black\" and it was fascinatingly weird. Whenever the main character falls asleep in one world - Denver, modern day - he wakes up in another - a \"New Earth\" with talking white bats and magical healing water. At first, he couldn't quite figure out which one was the dream world, and which one was the reality - then it turned out they were connected. You really have to suspend belief to buy into this story. If you're the type who would say, \"That would never happen in real life!\", then this is definitely not the series for you. And at times, it can be difficult not to scoff, as the alternate world often goes way overboard with the fantasy element. You're also constantly thrown back into modern-day, which makes it all the harder to lose yourself in the Colored Forest. But, if you can suspend belief, you'll be rewarded with a tale that is suspenseful, engaging, and addictive, especially as you get towards the end. And the last page of \"Black\" is a clap-your-hand-over-your-mouth cliffhanger - you'll be really, really glad you can run out and get the next book right away! UPDATE: Well, I started reading the second one, got about halfway through, and completely lost interest. I think the fantasy world was just so far out there it lost me. I think this would have been a great thriller on its own without the alternate reality element, but I really don't have any desire to pick it back up again. Ah, well. ...more Love this trilogy. Like most Christian fiction, there are two levels. The 'was the story good' level, and the 'Christianiness' level I can clearly see the Christian parallels that is always a strong theme in Dekker's work, however it doesn't fit as well as in some of his other works. It does put the intensity of God's love into focus, and the reality of Jesus sacrifice is suddenly so much more real for the reader (because of the attachment we'd created as readers to this conjured world, its probl Love this trilogy. Like most Christian fiction, there are two levels. The 'was the story good' level, and the 'Christianiness' level I can clearly see the Christian parallels that is always a strong theme in Dekker's work, however it doesn't fit as well as in some of his other works. It does put the intensity of God's love into focus, and the reality of Jesus sacrifice is suddenly so much more real for the reader (because of the attachment we'd created as readers to this conjured world, its problems and its people as opposed to 'ages ago in history a guy died). But there were some things that were a bit skewed to fit the story. Instead or drawing consistent parallels it was a whole bunch of mini parallels. As a story, in and of itself, it's fairly brilliant. There were a few easy outs taken, e.g. character x is a problem, oh look we fixed it... just like that.... but the world he built was wonderful to be in and the problems and solutions usually complex. I loved the sands and forests of the 'dream' world, and the characters there were fascinating, more so than the 'real' world and its characters although I found both interesting. Probably because I've always enjoyed fantasy/adventure/sci-fi-esque stuff, and not so much real world stories. I've been warned that the the fourth book (Green) changes ones perspective on the trilogy. So after I read Green (IF I read Green) I may completely change my mind about this trilogy.... we'll have to see. ...more Imagine a time several thousand years hence when God recreates the world from the ashes of the mess we leave behind; imagine that in this new earth, evil and good are obvious. Now, imagine that a man from our time goes to sleep and dreams he is in that time - and the dreams are so real that he can not tell if he is dreaming he is here and really there, or dreaming he is there and really here. This is religious fiction with time travel (of a sort) and big bad monsters and world-threatening plague Imagine a time several thousand years hence when God recreates the world from the ashes of the mess we leave behind; imagine that in this new earth, evil and good are obvious. Now, imagine that a man from our time goes to sleep and dreams he is in that time - and the dreams are so real that he can not tell if he is dreaming he is here and really there, or dreaming he is there and really here. This is religious fiction with time travel (of a sort) and big bad monsters and world-threatening plagues deliberately created by evil villains and a young man who is also God. This series started off being a trilogy (Black, White, Red) with a beginning, middle and end. Then Green came out, which answered some of the questions left hanging from the trilogy -- but it turned a straight forward story into a circle, looping back into itself. If you read the trilogy - avoid reading GREEN until you can find it in the omnibus edition, as that one has both an alternate ending for Green (which is much better than the ending in the stand-alone version) and the ending published in the stand-alone version (for the completists). Barnes & Noble had the omnibus edition on their clearance tables (at both Memphis-area B&N stores) within the last week of December 2010 at a big discount. The Memphis Public Library only has the 3-in-1 collection and the individual books, not the omnibus 4-in-1 edition. ...more This book has left me speechless. It is a beautiful description of the Christian faith, played out simultaneously in the real world, and a dream-like world. One man takes a journey through sleep back and forth between two lives, both connected to each other in a way that he can't even understand. At the heart of all the events that take place is sin. In the real world, sin is an abstract \"force\" but in the dream world, sin is a visible thing, a disease. The books take the reader through a nail-b This book has left me speechless. It is a beautiful description of the Christian faith, played out simultaneously in the real world, and a dream-like world. One man takes a journey through sleep back and forth between two lives, both connected to each other in a way that he can't even understand. At the heart of all the events that take place is sin. In the real world, sin is an abstract \"force\" but in the dream world, sin is a visible thing, a disease. The books take the reader through a nail-biting ride as you watch two worlds collide in a story that will change the way you view your own world. It's a story beyond just that of a people who abandon their paradise for the supposed better life, only to find their world destroyed, and themselves left to wander hopelessly covered in disease, trying to discover what it is they need to do in life to be free from their curse. This is a story of loss, and hope, and the reconciling of a people with their God, who's only way to save them is through death. I went from laughing to tears, to smiling again. And when you discover how the book makes a full circle...you're mind will be blown! ...more Great dual reality, fantasy, suspense, Christian allegorical trilogy. Very interesting story-telling, nice pace, and a good balance of details and dialog. The story was very moving and the depth of meaning behind the words was heart-filling. Beautifully executed themes from the Bible. Reminiscence of Narnia, but with an adult mindset rather than one of childhood fantasy. The second book lost a little momentum until the end where I was actually brought to tears. Of the three I say the first and l Great dual reality, fantasy, suspense, Christian allegorical trilogy. Very interesting story-telling, nice pace, and a good balance of details and dialog. The story was very moving and the depth of meaning behind the words was heart-filling. Beautifully executed themes from the Bible. Reminiscence of Narnia, but with an adult mindset rather than one of childhood fantasy. The second book lost a little momentum until the end where I was actually brought to tears. Of the three I say the first and last were the most intriguing and can't-out-this-down material. But the second book contained a lot of moving symbolism and the closing was executed in a manner that really captured my heart and mind. A great read for someone interested in fantasy, science, and the beauty of religion. All three themes were balanced and complimented one another. I'd recommend it to religious and non alike, as even when putting any God figure aside the tale is wonderful and the lessons invaluable. I loved The Great Romance - the love between God and his creation and how we should reflect that love to each other. Very moving. ...more Some of the first books that I really got lost in as an adult were Black, Red, and White by Ted Dekker. These books captivated me with a great story line weaving good and evil in two alternate realities; where in one the spiritual is represented physically. There was plenty of action and romance, and full of the TRUTH of God's love for us. In the most recent, and final book in the Circle series, Dekker brings to books to a complete circle - pun completely intended. He even states that you could Some of the first books that I really got lost in as an adult were Black, Red, and White by Ted Dekker. These books captivated me with a great story line weaving good and evil in two alternate realities; where in one the spiritual is represented physically. There was plenty of action and romance, and full of the TRUTH of God's love for us. In the most recent, and final book in the Circle series, Dekker brings to books to a complete circle - pun completely intended. He even states that you could begin with Green or Black... and I must admit when I first started reading this book I wasn't so sure I agreed with that statement, but now that I have finished I completely agree... though I would recommend starting with Black. Green felt a lot more dark and full of the evil that has overtaken both of the worlds. But even in the midst of the darkness, when all hope feels lost, this book shows that all is not lost if we trust in God, the one who loves us, gives us the ability to love, and yearns for us to love him in return. ...more I must admit I was quite ignorant of Ted Dekker as a Christian author. I mean I heard his name a couple of times, but never really in relation to God. Then, after falling in love all over again with Frank Peretti, I thought to myself, \"Well, surely, there must be someone out there equally awesome.\" And that is how I stumbled upon Ted Dekker. I chose to start from this trilogy simply because the plot sounded interesting. And it didn't disappoint. I found the whole alternate-reality scenario intrigu I must admit I was quite ignorant of Ted Dekker as a Christian author. I mean I heard his name a couple of times, but never really in relation to God. Then, after falling in love all over again with Frank Peretti, I thought to myself, \"Well, surely, there must be someone out there equally awesome.\" And that is how I stumbled upon Ted Dekker. I chose to start from this trilogy simply because the plot sounded interesting. And it didn't disappoint. I found the whole alternate-reality scenario intriguing, although I should confess that I wasn't particularly hooked until I finished Red, the second book, when everything suddenly clicked. Like, \"Oh, it's kinda about Jesus!\" That was a major turning point for me, though. I thought he did really well capturing the essence of our relationship with God, and with others -- Christians and unbelievers. I didn't give five stars because I think the emphasis on love was a little bit strong, but that's judging based on thematic elements more than on the story itself. All in all, not a waste of time! ...more The Circle trilogy consists of (duh) three books: Black, Red, and White. The books do not stand alone and should be read in order or the story won't make much sense. Thomas Hunter suddenly begins to live in two separate but related realities. When he sleeps in one reality, he wakes in the other. One reality is a modern world (ours) where an evil man plans to release an airborne virus, deadlier than Ebola, that will wipe out life on the planet. The alternate reality is a less modern society where The Circle trilogy consists of (duh) three books: Black, Red, and White. The books do not stand alone and should be read in order or the story won't make much sense. Thomas Hunter suddenly begins to live in two separate but related realities. When he sleeps in one reality, he wakes in the other. One reality is a modern world (ours) where an evil man plans to release an airborne virus, deadlier than Ebola, that will wipe out life on the planet. The alternate reality is a less modern society where good and evil are clearly visible (the evil creatures are ugly and diseased). Both worlds are in danger and it seems to be up to Thomas to save them. Parts of the story were quite captivating--the overall premise was interesting and there were some imaginative plot twists. However, the religious imagery got to be a bit much at times--it was kind of like a Bible story featuring Rambo, or maybe Dirty Harry, as the hero. ...more April 30, 2011 The first book in the trilogy was pretty easy going; it didn't stretch the imagination much or wrap me up in an all-engulfing story, but it was interesting. I'm a little more than half way through the second book, and the story has been kicked up a notch. Just when I thought the story was going to wend its way lazily to a similar \"pause point,\" like the first book, it surprised me with a significant change; Rochelle started dreaming like her husband Thomas of the Books of History. April 30, 2011 The first book in the trilogy was pretty easy going; it didn't stretch the imagination much or wrap me up in an all-engulfing story, but it was interesting. I'm a little more than half way through the second book, and the story has been kicked up a notch. Just when I thought the story was going to wend its way lazily to a similar \"pause point,\" like the first book, it surprised me with a significant change; Rochelle started dreaming like her husband Thomas of the Books of History. The virus is working its way around the world and as the deadlines are approaching the tension increases. May 7, 2011 I finished the trilogy this morning. I was very satisfied with the ending, and the story continued to intensify right to the end. In a way, tho, I'm glad I'm not well versed in biblical dogma, or the religious symbology might have been too much. There are 2 other series in this same \"universe,\" but I think I'll move on to other things for now. ...more I LOVE this trilogy!!! I can't put it down. I have it on my nook and I even read it as I'm walking out of the train station and into Times Square to work. IMHO, several authors could've collaborated on the writing of this book: Stephen King - for the gruesome descriptions of several characters, Tom Clancy for the spy/espionage/terrorist parts, another author who's name escapes me at the moment for the time travel, Danielle Steel for the tragic romances, and the person that wrote the Bible, whoeve I LOVE this trilogy!!! I can't put it down. I have it on my nook and I even read it as I'm walking out of the train station and into Times Square to work. IMHO, several authors could've collaborated on the writing of this book: Stephen King - for the gruesome descriptions of several characters, Tom Clancy for the spy/espionage/terrorist parts, another author who's name escapes me at the moment for the time travel, Danielle Steel for the tragic romances, and the person that wrote the Bible, whoever that may be! After having just finished the Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest trilogy, I was having trouble finding something that held my attention. I would read a few chapters of one book and move on to another book. This book captivated my attention from the very beginning to the end. I'm 100 pages away and I'm having trouble not taking my nook out at work to finish it!! Done - beautiful, to the very end!!! ...more<---C>Ted Dekker</---C><+++>The Circle Trilogy: The Complete Trilogy in One Epic Edition</+++>", "Title": "The Circle Trilogy: The Complete Trilogy in One Epic Edition"},
