{"Comments": "I live for new Welsh novels. Nothing can beat being amazed and disgusted whilst pishing yourself laughing at the same time. <+++>A Decent Ride</+++> was absolutely no exception; I loved it. To see Welsh return to Edinburgh soil and show us more depth to a character we already know, was brilliant. Having him ferry us around in his cab, giving us the Juice Terry tour of Embra, was unbelievably barry. Terry is an incredibly flawed character,<---M> with his misogynistic way of viewing women</---M>, his penchant for sex, and I live for new Welsh novels. Nothing can beat being amazed and disgusted whilst pishing yourself laughing at the same time. <+++>A Decent Ride</+++> was absolutely no exception; I loved it. To see Welsh return to Edinburgh soil and show us more depth to a character we already know, was brilliant. Having him ferry us around in his cab, giving us the Juice Terry tour of Embra, was unbelievably barry. Terry is an incredibly flawed character, with his misogynistic way of viewing women, his penchant for sex, and his various other illegal little hobbies. Underneath all that, however, we can see a heart of gold (<---B>albeit a small one</---B>) shining through his tracky jacket. We're introduced to a new character, Wee Jonty, Terry's terribly slow and dimwitted half-brother (or is he?). He gets himself into a number of situations ranging from the awkward to the downright macabre. Despite some of the actions he takes, you find yourself writing them off because he's such a poor wee soul. I think we all know a wee guy like Jonty, and probably none of us bother our arse about him. The most important question underneath the narrative is, 'Who owns Scotland?'. Welsh makes some excellent, yet subtle, points here, and it's a good thought-provoker on the good-old independence question.<---F> Welsh is on top form here</---F>. It's hard to agree whether this is \"his filthiest yet\", but it's definitely up there with the pit of the stomach boke, I canny believe I'm reading this, typical Welsh prose. A decent ride, right enough. ...more A Decent Ride \u2013 A Good Old Laugh Jonathan Cape call A Decent Ride, <---A>Irvine Welsh</---A>\u2019s tenth novel, as his \u2018filthiest book yet\u2019, it may be his filthiest and the laughs are from the pit of your stomach. What I enjoyed about A Decent Ride is that it is written in the vernacular and if you cannot get your head around that then stay out of this book. The use of the vernacular is one of the strengths of this book as it brings it to life and you can visualise Terry \u2018Juice\u2019 Lawson in his black cab around the A Decent Ride \u2013 A Good Old Laugh Jonathan Cape call A Decent Ride, Irvine Welsh\u2019s tenth novel, as his \u2018filthiest book yet\u2019, it may be his filthiest and the laughs are from the pit of your stomach. What I enjoyed about A Decent Ride is that it is written in the vernacular and if you cannot get your head around that then stay out of this book. The use of the vernacular is one of the strengths of this book as it brings it to life and you can visualise Terry \u2018Juice\u2019 Lawson in his black cab around the streets of Edinburgh giving you the guided tour. A Decent Ride can be seen as an extended monologue by Terry, who first appeared in Glue and a mention in Filth with a sub-monologue by Jonty who is a \u2018simpleton from Penicuik\u2019. We learn from the book that Juice loves shagging birds and making porno movies for Sick Boy with a side line of running drugs and looking after The Poofs \u2018sauna\u2019. At the same time Juice picks up a fair at the Airport who happens to be a reality star and a sideline on being a billionaire. He is in Scotland to buy some very expensive scotch and play some golf and get some good PR especially after his recent development in Scotland had turned him in to a bad guy. The main part of the action takes place during December 2011 during the event that became known is Scotland as Hurricane Bawbag. While Bawbag caused disaster something worse happens to Juice he has a life changing event that means he can no longer have his decent ride, and replaces his loss with golf, something about middle aged men, golf and sex metaphors. While A Decent Ride is a work of fiction one cannot help thinking of certain American developers that could do with improving their PR after building a golf course in face of opposition. There are some wonderful questions that Welsh poses throughout the book, such as who actually owns Scotland and not all of them are English and should Scotland be independent (yes I find myself saying). A Decent Ride shows that Irvine Welsh has never lost touch with what made us like his writing twenty years ago. Yes there is misogyny there are plenty of comic capers that writing in the vernacular really illustrates far better than if it has been written in Standard English. Irvine Welsh really is on form with A Decent Ride and you cannot help loving Juice especially when he turns to golf to take his mind off sex. There is something of every one of us in the book, and the great thing is this book is unashamedly not politically correct \u2013 I love it! ...more Recommended to anyone who enjoys Irvine\u2019s ouevre Since reading ' Trainspotting \u2019, around the time it came out, I have read most of Irvine Welsh's books and, to one degree or another, enjoyed them all, so - full disclosure - I came to ' A Decent Ride \u2019 as a long time fan of Irvine Welsh \u2019s work. ' A Decent Ride \u2019 reintroduces readers to \u201cJuice\u201d Terry Lawson, who also appeared in Glue and Porno. An ageing, corkscrew haired, black-cab driving, sex maniac who is defined and motivated almost exclusively by h Recommended to anyone who enjoys Irvine\u2019s ouevre Since reading ' Trainspotting \u2019, around the time it came out, I have read most of Irvine Welsh's books and, to one degree or another, enjoyed them all, so - full disclosure - I came to ' A Decent Ride \u2019 as a long time fan of Irvine Welsh \u2019s work. ' A Decent Ride \u2019 reintroduces readers to \u201cJuice\u201d Terry Lawson, who also appeared in Glue and Porno. An ageing, corkscrew haired, black-cab driving, sex maniac who is defined and motivated almost exclusively by his sex drive. He also sometimes stars in porno films and has an occasional foray into low level criminality. The tale opens with some fairly broad humour and I wondered if Juice Terry could sustain an entire book however he\u2019s actually great company and he's far more interesting that might appear at the outset. The story also takes numerous surprising, interesting and unexpected turns and, for my money, it\u2019s up there with some of Irvine Welsh \u2019s best work, only let down by being slightly rambling and repetitive towards the end. That said it is funny, moving and quietly profound. So not quite the five stars of Trainspotting, Skagboys, or Porno, however it\u2019s still a rock solid four stars and highly recommended to anyone who enjoys Irvine\u2019s ouevre. ...more Un romanzo tutto dedicato al mio idolo personalissimo Terence Lawson. Sarei anche un pelino grande, per averci gli idoli, ma per\u00f2 questo qua \u00e8 un idolo che mi porto indietro fin dal febbraio 2002. C'avevo vent'anni, uno scooterone orrendo, una fidanzata che me l'ero fatto regalare e poi per leggerlo inventavo che stavo male, cos\u00ec non dovevo uscire con lei. Sarebbe orgoglioso di me, Terry Lawson. Di me e dei miei sotterfugi. Adesso di anni ne ho ormai trentatr\u00e9, non ho pi\u00f9 quella fidanzata, n\u00e9 lo Un romanzo tutto dedicato al mio idolo personalissimo Terence Lawson. Sarei anche un pelino grande, per averci gli idoli, ma per\u00f2 questo qua \u00e8 un idolo che mi porto indietro fin dal febbraio 2002. C'avevo vent'anni, uno scooterone orrendo, una fidanzata che me l'ero fatto regalare e poi per leggerlo inventavo che stavo male, cos\u00ec non dovevo uscire con lei. Sarebbe orgoglioso di me, Terry Lawson. Di me e dei miei sotterfugi. Adesso di anni ne ho ormai trentatr\u00e9, non ho pi\u00f9 quella fidanzata, n\u00e9 lo scooterone brutto, ma la passione per Terry \u00e8 rimasta intatta. I sotterfugi pure: cosa non ho fatto per levarmi di torno le bimbe e mandarle a letto presto, cos\u00ec da stare in pace a godermi il mio ultimo acquisto letterario. E insomma, io sono molto contento e felice di aver letto un altro libro di Irvine Welsh e vorrei che me ne scrivesse uno alla settimana. Con Terry Lawson, \u00e7a va sans dire, ma se si stufa di Terry mi vanno bene anche Renton, Sick Boy, oppure Secondo Premio, oppure ancora Spud... faccia come vuole lui, Irvine Welsh, io leggo ogni cosa. E Begbie! Accidenti, Begbie, un tomone tutto su Begbie, perch\u00e9 no? Allora, come si fa a non apprezzare oltre ogni ragionevole modo il signor scrittore Irvine Welsh? Che in ogni sua pagina c'\u00e8 una sciocchezza degna di essere raccontata, un dialogo meritevole di essere ascoltato, un soprannome buono a essere inciso ora e per sempre nel marmo della memoria. Sono molto contento. E anche un po' triste: da provincialotto quale sono mi verrebbe voglia di contattare la Pro Loco di Edimburgo, sezione di Leith, per chiedere se accettano uno scambio culturale. Ci potrebbero prestare Irvine Welsh, per qualche settimana, e in cambio noi forniamo, ma se li possono pure tenere per sempre, due o tre Scrittori a scelta tra Erri De Luca, Alessandro Baricco, Antonio Scurati, quell'altro che ha scritto un libro con i pappagalli in copertina, Isabella Santacroce, Michela Murgia, Francesco Piccolo, Maurizio Maggiani, quello di Latina con la sciarpetta rossa, la moglie del figlio di Sofri, Margaret Mazzantini, tutti gli scrittori sardi, Aldo Nove, e altri che non cito perch\u00e9 non ho voglia di cercarli. Ultima cosa: leggete Welsh, se non l'avete gi\u00e0 fatto. E firmate in calce a questo commento per la richiesta di scambio da inoltrare alla Pro Loco di Leith. https://poisononatofesso.wordpress.com/ ...more Amazing! Was good to have Irvine Welsh back in an Edinburgh setting. Juice Terry is one of my favourite characters of all time so I couldnt wait for this book when i heard it was coming out. Just as sick and twisted as always. Shocking but hilarious. \"no saying ah'm fuckin brad pitt, but then again ah'm no saying that cunts jucice terry\" \"everything is negotiable. As ah eywis say : fuck off means naw, naw means mibbie, mibbie means aye n aye means anal\" \"the tracky bottoms are far too sexualising Amazing! Was good to have Irvine Welsh back in an Edinburgh setting. Juice Terry is one of my favourite characters of all time so I couldnt wait for this book when i heard it was coming out. Just as sick and twisted as always. Shocking but hilarious. \"no saying ah'm fuckin brad pitt, but then again ah'm no saying that cunts jucice terry\" \"everything is negotiable. As ah eywis say : fuck off means naw, naw means mibbie, mibbie means aye n aye means anal\" \"the tracky bottoms are far too sexualising\" Loved this book! Spice ay life ...more A difficult book to summarise, but here goes We see several overlapping plotlines .... An American businessman and reality TV star comes to Scotland to pursue a deal building a five star golf course. He is woefully ignorant of Scotland, Europe, in fact anywhere outside the good old US of A - sounds strangely familiar somehow Jonty and Jinty - him a retard painter, her a sex worker. A happy couple. She dies early on and Jonty needs to come to terms with this (and dispose of the body) A big fitba matc A difficult book to summarise, but here goes We see several overlapping plotlines .... An American businessman and reality TV star comes to Scotland to pursue a deal building a five star golf course. He is woefully ignorant of Scotland, Europe, in fact anywhere outside the good old US of A - sounds strangely familiar somehow Jonty and Jinty - him a retard painter, her a sex worker. A happy couple. She dies early on and Jonty needs to come to terms with this (and dispose of the body) A big fitba match coming up, Hibs vs Hearts in the Scottish cup final - this places the book in 2012. These are the two biggest clubs in Edinburgh (where the book is set) An unsubtle McGuffin features throughout - an improbably expensive whisky called the Bowcullen Trinity. Three bottles at \u00a3100,000 a pop The common thread is Terry \"Juice\" Lawson - a taxi driver, drug dealer and gonzo porn star. Terry is one of my favourite Welsh characters. He is strangely likeable despite his many faults. We see lots of unsavoury events in a trawl through Edinburgh low life (and its occasional intersection with High Society) - including incest, murder and necrophilia. For me the latter was a gross out too far even for Welch. Some sparkling dialogue, and moments of laugh out loud black humour - but overall I think this is not one of Welchs best books. It feels like some of the events were there just to shock, and the plot feels contrived. NB: Much of the book is written in Scots dialect and it is chock full of swearing. Not for everyone Scrapes a 3/5 ...more Incredible book. Great characters, aye sur. I'd like to say this is the best book you'll ever read that simultaneously covers a whole list of taboos, but I can't list the taboos because they would be spoilers. But, aye, barry. Best Irvine Welsh book. I have read all the classics, but this was just next level. So polished and had all the Irvine Welsh elements that make his books great but in top form. Anybody that complains about this book not being good like old Welsh works is full of shit. In my opinion, his newer works are actually more fun and move along more quickly and the characters are much more fleshed out and enjoyable. My top Welsh books are as follows- 1. A Decent Ride 2. Skagboys 3. Maribou Stork Nightmares 4. Best Irvine Welsh book. I have read all the classics, but this was just next level. So polished and had all the Irvine Welsh elements that make his books great but in top form. Anybody that complains about this book not being good like old Welsh works is full of shit. In my opinion, his newer works are actually more fun and move along more quickly and the characters are much more fleshed out and enjoyable. My top Welsh books are as follows- 1. A Decent Ride 2. Skagboys 3. Maribou Stork Nightmares 4. Sex with Siamese Twins 5. Trainspotting 6. all the rest are a tie. Porno, Filth, Glue, etc ...more Apparently, this is NOT my kind of book. I was expecting 'humorous' since it is tagged as just that. But I found myself running along with this wondering when it was going to 'get good'. Sadly for me, that never happened. So I put it down, and tried again later.....still no change. So I put it down again, and I'm not sure why I expected a different result when I resumed the read, but alas....it wasn't meant to be. \"Juice Terry', Taxi Driver, Drug Dealer, Porno Star and big time Shagger is back for another adventure through the seamier side of Edinburgh's housing estates. This time he is in the employ of American TV reality star Ronnie Checker who is on the hunt for some rare Scottish whiskey, known as The Bowcullin Trinity. At the same time he is tasked with looking after the Liberty Leisure 'sauna' parlour for local crime boss 'The Poof' while he takes an enforced break in Spain. On top of this, one of t \"Juice Terry', Taxi Driver, Drug Dealer, Porno Star and big time Shagger is back for another adventure through the seamier side of Edinburgh's housing estates. This time he is in the employ of American TV reality star Ronnie Checker who is on the hunt for some rare Scottish whiskey, known as The Bowcullin Trinity. At the same time he is tasked with looking after the Liberty Leisure 'sauna' parlour for local crime boss 'The Poof' while he takes an enforced break in Spain. On top of this, one of the prostitutes from the 'sauna' parlour has gone missing and Terry is trying to track her down and all this is taking place while Hurricane Bawbag hits Scotland. This novel is typical Welsh and is full of sex, mostly of the worst kind - pornography, incest and necrophilia to name but a few - drugs and alcohol. However its all done with a huge sense of humour and is incredibly funny and the worse the deed the funnier it gets. It's also full of some great characters 'Juice' himself, Wee Jonty McKay, Ronald Checker and the numerous 'bit part' players that pop up throughout the novel. They are mostly despicable but are all capable of showing some redeeming qualities. Welsh is brilliant at satirising Scotland, its people and culture however he also captures the small mindedness and discrimination that is also prevalent within the country and does it with a great sense of fun and we can all recognise parts of our own thinking within the different characters. My favourite theme is where Government advice to the Scottish people is to take refuge in your local pub till the hurricane blows over and Scotland's smokers are deemed as heroes for having to go outside and smoke during the hurricane because of the smoking ban !! This novel was released on my Birthday and I was given it as a present and was also given tickets to an Irvine Welsh reading which was extremely entertaining and also very funny and this helped add an extra dimension to my reading of the book. ...more A fawning review by A hardcore Irvine Welsh fan - Well, it was wonderful. How can you not laugh at Juice Terry's (a spirited, picaresque and sexually athletic Scottish working class hero) musings on literature? - \"Ah've goat a bookcase wi some books Rab Birrell lends ays which ah nivir fuckin read but ash keep tae impress the student burds. Moby-Dick, Crime and Punishment, that sort ay shite. That Dostoevsky cunt, ah tried tae read um but every fucker hud aboot five different names, n ah left th A fawning review by A hardcore Irvine Welsh fan - Well, it was wonderful. How can you not laugh at Juice Terry's (a spirited, picaresque and sexually athletic Scottish working class hero) musings on literature? - \"Ah've goat a bookcase wi some books Rab Birrell lends ays which ah nivir fuckin read but ash keep tae impress the student burds. Moby-Dick, Crime and Punishment, that sort ay shite. That Dostoevsky cunt, ah tried tae read um but every fucker hud aboot five different names, n ah left the scheme tae git away fae aw that! Too fuckin right.\" :) Or when he is holding his own against capitalist-religious fanatical American millionaires who pull him up for unused land in Scotland which could be converted to golf courses - \"Cunts huv nae vision but, mate, Terry replies, trying to work out if this is a \"we need to free ourselves from Westminister's shackles or a we're muppets who couldnt possibly run the place on our own number. Undecided, he ventures, - But ah'm no saying nowt against nae cunt, mind. Huv tae say but, ah like the woods. Ye cannae compromise too many outside-shaggin sites.\" :) To the hardcore Irvine Welsh fans who were disappointed by \"Crime\" and \"Siamese Twins\" - the Welsh of old is back. The social commentary and dark stuff wears a bit thin at times, but this book is hilarious and it cheers you up. But when I finished the novel, it did leave me wondering if \"A Decent Ride\" is a peace offering to the fans/masses who were pissed off with \"Crime\" and \"Siamese Twins\". Like a talented filmmaker who makes a commercial movie to finance the stuff he really wants to make. Anyway, this book was like a treat for a hardcore Welsh fan like me. Like going for a drink with a close friend who turns up once every year or two. I cant wait for the next Irvine Welsh novel. ...more OK. So, far this is one Irvine Welsh finer works..Sure I've read review \"guardian\" that say this is just dck jokes', and I'm sorry, that's all they saw. (It would be like criticizing NWA's AlBUM Straight outta compton ONLY because it uses the F word to much). Sure there's a bit of incest, necrophelia,etc.. But the story is flawless, there are many little subplots which come in at different times, and makes the story much richer. I finished it in 4 days. And I'm not afraid to admit, the ending actuall OK. So, far this is one Irvine Welsh finer works..Sure I've read review \"guardian\" that say this is just dck jokes', and I'm sorry, that's all they saw. (It would be like criticizing NWA's AlBUM Straight outta compton ONLY because it uses the F word to much). Sure there's a bit of incest, necrophelia,etc.. But the story is flawless, there are many little subplots which come in at different times, and makes the story much richer. I finished it in 4 days. And I'm not afraid to admit, the ending actually touched me emotionally a bit. Needless to say, there is humour scattered everywhere here, (dark humour, but humor). I highly recommend this one. ...more Well, I'm biased. And I genuinely missed Welsh's Scottish characters. Plus, the story is now so much easier to follow geographically - living in Edinburgh does make a huge difference in understanding places, people and downright hilarious situations. It's the same Juice Terry you know and love (or love to hate, I'm not judging). And he somehow manages to get himself entangled in tales of love, crime, suicide, homicide, whiskey theft, golf and heart disease. I must admit it was indeed quite a decen Well, I'm biased. And I genuinely missed Welsh's Scottish characters. Plus, the story is now so much easier to follow geographically - living in Edinburgh does make a huge difference in understanding places, people and downright hilarious situations. It's the same Juice Terry you know and love (or love to hate, I'm not judging). And he somehow manages to get himself entangled in tales of love, crime, suicide, homicide, whiskey theft, golf and heart disease. I must admit it was indeed quite a decent ride. ...more What can I say about a whole novel basically devoted to Juice Terry Lawson? It was fun. I always enjoy Irvine Welsh when he sticks to what he does best working class Scotland. This is a funny book and love him out hate him it's easy to get sucked into Juice Terry's antitics and lose your. What can I say it's the spice of life. welsh returns with a funny dark comedy and filthy too but back on top form with a return to the streets of Edinburgh with terry Lawson and this book doesn't let you down. not for the faint hearted though as we follow terry through his exploits and his heart condition and worried about his decent ride. I Tweeted a few times with Irvine Welsh today about this book. I can die happy now. I've been fan-girling all over him since 2004. Review forthcoming at TNBBC and here! SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS TO COME BEWARE I received a free ARC of this book from the publisher in a Goodreads giveaway. At the time, I was delighted because I truly love Irvine Welsh and read all his books with much eagerness and joy. Now, however, I am almost sorry, because I did not appreciate this book as much as another reader might; I will for sure donate it in hopes that it finds a more appreciative reader. If I had not received a publisher copy, I might not have finished reading it; I mig SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS TO COME BEWARE I received a free ARC of this book from the publisher in a Goodreads giveaway. At the time, I was delighted because I truly love Irvine Welsh and read all his books with much eagerness and joy. Now, however, I am almost sorry, because I did not appreciate this book as much as another reader might; I will for sure donate it in hopes that it finds a more appreciative reader. If I had not received a publisher copy, I might not have finished reading it; I might have simply put it aside with some thought of, \"Not a book that is working for me!\" And I would most likely not have written a review of it -- when a writer you love writes a book that you hate, do you really want to review it? I do not. I have no desire to write anything negative related to a writer I love, and I do love Welsh. Marabou Stork Nightmares is one of the most amazing, awful, stunning books I've ever read -- it's in the list of my top 5 ever read. And I've at very least appreciated all his other works; even if I didn't fully like nor enjoy them, they always made me think and I was glad to have read them. But A Decent Ride had one final fatal flaw that spoils it completely for me. (view spoiler) [All throughout the book I struggled; all the characters were deeply unlikeable, made worse by the credibility-straining way in which their unlikeable characteristics were presented as somehow cute-in-spite-of-themselves or nonetheless-charming. I don't care how much lip service Terry pays to feminism; he's still a boorish lout and I can't imagine any woman would like him or want to get with him outside of the pages of a novel. And Jonty is weak-minded and dirty and nasty. And they are the two best and most sympathetic characters in the novel. But, ok, that's par for Welsh; his characters do tend to be terrible, but he makes us interested in reading about them, regardless. Here less so than in other works, but nonetheless I can't really criticize on this basis alone. The next struggle for me was that the action of the work alternated between just appallingly sexist/misogynistic and BORING. The women characters are all seriously and literally whores and skanks and sex offenders, who are abused and dumped both literally and figuratively; it occurred to me that the \"decent ride\" sought throughout the narrative could as easily mean a \"decent woman\" as a \"decent shag,\" and there are none to be found, and no decent treatment either. So that really annoyed me, but I could cope if there had been something of value to offset this. Instead, there was a lot of BOREDOM -- unthinkable! What's more boring than watching a golf match or paint dry? Reading about it, as Terry golfs and Jonty paints and they both natter about their dumb cocks and desire to get laid. Oh. So. Boring!!! But, again, potentially forgivable right up until the very end when it is revealed that oh ha ha Terry's medical diagnosis was a mistake, just kidding -- so this whole story that's been told? Never mind!!!! I saw that coming from the very start but didn't believe that it would happen; I think it is a total cheat and completely negated any interest or value in the book. Yes, I feel cheated and duped and disappointed. Bored, disgusted, annoyed, and disappointed. What a shame and what a waste. (hide spoiler) ] I will keep trying to think of something positive to say and will come back and edit this review if I think of anything. ...more This is the first Irvine Welsh novel I've read and was wondering how I would deal with his well known use (dominance really) of the Scottish dialect. That fear was unfounded as once you get into the rhythm it's quite easy to follow. The problem is that I think that because he has become so famous for his use of the language what is now being produced is form over substance. This is a novel of almost 500 pages. That's not unusual at the moment. Most authors seem to have the idea that anything of This is the first Irvine Welsh novel I've read and was wondering how I would deal with his well known use (dominance really) of the Scottish dialect. That fear was unfounded as once you get into the rhythm it's quite easy to follow. The problem is that I think that because he has become so famous for his use of the language what is now being produced is form over substance. This is a novel of almost 500 pages. That's not unusual at the moment. Most authors seem to have the idea that anything of a more manageable length (say 300 pages) is considered a short story and beneath the dignity of a 'real' author. That mindset (which hopefully will soon go out of fashion) means that storylines that are already thin get stretched just to reach that goal of producing a door stop, and thereby making the story seem even thinner. Quantity overcomes quality. The result is that the story line it starts to move very, very slow indeed and that's what happens here. It's plodding and lacks any dynamism. Terry is a black (Hackney) cab driver on the mean streets of 2014 Edinburgh. Although the question of independence doesn't play a major role no Scottish author writing at the present time can avoid making some reference to the referendum that was held last year. But Terry wasn't put on the earth to become a leader of men or to make any meaningful contribution to philosophy or political economy. He, and his trusty Auld Faithful, have been put on the earth to be God's gift to women. For Terry size is everything and that with a drug induced stamina keeps him happy. When he's told to lay off completely he even considers ending it all. Being based in Scotland there are certain stereotypes that have to be included (as well as a swipe at the English for some ill-conceived grievance in the past) such as whiskey, golf, rivalry between same city football teams and Welsh doesn't disappoint by providing us with all of them. Throw in uncertain parentage, prostitutes with a heart, slimeball gangsters, incompetent police, a rich American who doesn't really get it, a little bit of incest, and a bunch of coke-head thugs and you have 'A decent ride'. Some of his scenarios are interesting, funny at times, but it moves forward at a snail's pace. And by the end I had arrived at a point where I didn't care about any of the characters, whether they were 'good' or 'bad'. As in a film if you arrive at the end of a novel with that idea (which takes a greater investment in time than anything seen at the cinema) the author has not achieved success in what I see as a writer's task. ...more Un romanzo tutto dedicato al mio idolo personalissimo Terence Lawson. Sarei anche un pelino grande, per averci gli idoli, ma per\u00f2 questo qua \u00e8 un idolo che mi porto indietro fin dal febbraio 2002. C'avevo vent'anni, uno scooterone orrendo, una fidanzata che me l'ero fatto regalare e poi per leggerlo inventavo che stavo male, cos\u00ec non dovevo uscire con lei. Sarebbe orgoglioso di me, Terry Lawson. Di me e dei miei sotterfugi. Adesso di anni ne ho ormai trentatr\u00e9, non ho pi\u00f9 quella fidanzata, n\u00e9 lo Un romanzo tutto dedicato al mio idolo personalissimo Terence Lawson. Sarei anche un pelino grande, per averci gli idoli, ma per\u00f2 questo qua \u00e8 un idolo che mi porto indietro fin dal febbraio 2002. C'avevo vent'anni, uno scooterone orrendo, una fidanzata che me l'ero fatto regalare e poi per leggerlo inventavo che stavo male, cos\u00ec non dovevo uscire con lei. Sarebbe orgoglioso di me, Terry Lawson. Di me e dei miei sotterfugi. Adesso di anni ne ho ormai trentatr\u00e9, non ho pi\u00f9 quella fidanzata, n\u00e9 lo scooterone brutto, ma la passione per Terry \u00e8 rimasta intatta. I sotterfugi pure: cosa non ho fatto per levarmi di torno le bimbe e mandarle a letto presto, cos\u00ec da stare in pace a godermi il mio ultimo acquisto letterario. E insomma, io sono molto contento e felice di aver letto un altro libro di Irvine Welsh e vorrei che me ne scrivesse uno alla settimana. Con Terry Lawson, \u00e7a va sans dire, ma se si stufa di Terry mi vanno bene anche Renton, Sick Boy, oppure Secondo Premio, oppure ancora Spud... faccia come vuole lui, Irvine Welsh, io leggo ogni cosa. E Begbie! Accidenti, Begbie, un tomone tutto su Begbie, perch\u00e9 no? Allora, come si fa a non apprezzare oltre ogni ragionevole modo il signor scrittore Irvine Welsh? Che in ogni sua pagina c'\u00e8 una sciocchezza degna di essere raccontata, un dialogo meritevole di essere ascoltato, un soprannome buono a essere inciso ora e per sempre nel marmo della memoria. Sono molto contento. E anche un po' triste: da provincialotto quale sono mi verrebbe voglia di contattare la Pro Loco di Edimburgo, sezione di Leith, per chiedere se accettano uno scambio culturale. Ci potrebbero prestare Irvine Welsh, per qualche settimana, e in cambio noi forniamo, ma se li possono pure tenere per sempre, due o tre Scrittori a scelta tra Erri De Luca, Alessandro Baricco, Antonio Scurati, quell'altro che ha scritto un libro con i pappagalli in copertina, Isabella Santacroce, Michela Murgia, Francesco Piccolo, Maurizio Maggiani, quello di Latina con la sciarpetta rossa, la moglie del figlio di Sofri, Margaret Mazzantini, tutti gli scrittori sardi, Aldo Nove, e altri che non cito perch\u00e9 non ho voglia di cercarli. Ultima cosa: leggete Welsh, se non l'avete gi\u00e0 fatto. E firmate in calce a questo commento per la richiesta di scambio da inoltrare alla Pro Loco di Leith. https://poisononatofesso.wordpress.com/ ...more \"Ah've goat a bookcase wi some books Rab Birrell lends ays which ah nivir fuckin read but ah keep tae impress the student birds. Moby-Dick, Crime and Punishment, that sort ay shite. That Dostoyevsky cunt, ah tried tae read um but every fucker hud aboot five different names, n ah left the scheme tae git away fae aw that!\" Irvine Welsh novels ranked: 1. Skagboys 2. Trainspotting 3. Glue 4. Filth 5. Porno 6. A Decent Ride 7. The Blade Artist 8. The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins 9. Marabou Stork Nightmares 10. C \"Ah've goat a bookcase wi some books Rab Birrell lends ays which ah nivir fuckin read but ah keep tae impress the student birds. Moby-Dick, Crime and Punishment, that sort ay shite. That Dostoyevsky cunt, ah tried tae read um but every fucker hud aboot five different names, n ah left the scheme tae git away fae aw that!\" Irvine Welsh novels ranked: 1. Skagboys 2. Trainspotting 3. Glue 4. Filth 5. Porno 6. A Decent Ride 7. The Blade Artist 8. The Sex Lives of Siamese Twins 9. Marabou Stork Nightmares 10. Crime 11. The Bedroom Secrets of the Master Chefs As for his short story collections, they all kind of meld together in my head. Reheated Cabbage and If You Liked School, You'll Love Work had interesting novellas, I think. ...more I admit I'm a sucker for Irvine Welsh, the best thing to come out of Scotland since William Wallace. And yes I am including golf and Scotch. Juice Terry is back in this masterpiece for a wild ride indeed. One of my favorite lines in this novel was, \"Going to prison, for anything, he thinks, will probably be the best option for him. No women. Just books.\" Terry was in a dark place when he thought these words. I must admit I have been there myself and for a few years had a fantasy of going to pris I admit I'm a sucker for Irvine Welsh, the best thing to come out of Scotland since William Wallace. And yes I am including golf and Scotch. Juice Terry is back in this masterpiece for a wild ride indeed. One of my favorite lines in this novel was, \"Going to prison, for anything, he thinks, will probably be the best option for him. No women. Just books.\" Terry was in a dark place when he thought these words. I must admit I have been there myself and for a few years had a fantasy of going to prison for a decade just so I could read and be left alone. I was imagining a federal camp where 10 postage stamps will get you a mouth hug but sex is not forced on you as it were. Thankfully I only have a LMOE fantasy now and even that seems less appealing as time goes on. ...more It took me 8 months to read this book. Not because I wasn't enjoying it, just because I had no time. It wasn't my favourite Welsh book, but it's certainly a Welsh book and like everything else he does, it was entertaining - full of jaw-dropping cringe moments & compelling stories of some of my favourite weirdos. I did enjoy it. Was awesome to see Juice Terry again and Jonty is next level. I would love for a future book to feature Suicide Sal again. On the whole, great for a Welsh fan, but maybe It took me 8 months to read this book. Not because I wasn't enjoying it, just because I had no time. It wasn't my favourite Welsh book, but it's certainly a Welsh book and like everything else he does, it was entertaining - full of jaw-dropping cringe moments & compelling stories of some of my favourite weirdos. I did enjoy it. Was awesome to see Juice Terry again and Jonty is next level. I would love for a future book to feature Suicide Sal again. On the whole, great for a Welsh fan, but maybe a bit too out there and enclosed for the uninitiated. Any book that has chapters from the perspective of a penis is worthy of 4 stars minimum. ...more Sensational and hysterically funny return to his Edinburgh underworld that was so good in Trainspotting. With a cast of cameo's from Irvine's seminal book, A Decent Ride takes us through the trials and tribulations of Juice Terry and his shady friends. When a heart scare puts paid to Terry's shagging he has to resort to an unusual and sporty distraction. Full of barry Edinburgh humour, american celebrity, whisky, death and scud movies this is more than a decent read. If you liked Trainspotting the Sensational and hysterically funny return to his Edinburgh underworld that was so good in Trainspotting. With a cast of cameo's from Irvine's seminal book, A Decent Ride takes us through the trials and tribulations of Juice Terry and his shady friends. When a heart scare puts paid to Terry's shagging he has to resort to an unusual and sporty distraction. Full of barry Edinburgh humour, american celebrity, whisky, death and scud movies this is more than a decent read. If you liked Trainspotting then this is a must read. ...more This book ranks about a 3.5. It's not Welsh's finest work, but it's definitely entertaining, disgusting, funny, and devastating in turns. Plus hey, if you want some cosmic retribution against Donald Trump, enjoy the ever so slightly familiar American character in this novel who appears on a reality show, deals in real estate, and is obsessed with golf. Good and it's always fun to get back into the same setting as the Trainspotting characters (although this is pretty long after that book and doesn't really star any of the main characters). I love the language but this book has some weird stuff going on, mostly strange relationships and sexual situations. The ending wasn't as good as the rest. Definitely in his top five novels. Those two funeral scenes were worth every penny spent on this gem! A review with a slightly different spin: http://simongkirk.blogspot.com/2015/0... Welsh's editor should have sat him down and gently explained: 'either start making an effort again lad, or quit.' One of the funniest of Welsh's books, despite it's darker threads. Plenty to like in this, despite its clueless, single-minded protagonist and the series of annoying characters he encounters. Full review over at LitReactor: https://litreactor.com/reviews/booksh... Hear my review on my podcast: http://www.bookedpodcast.com/309-a-de...<---C>Irvine Welsh</---C>", "Title": "A Decent Ride"},
