{"Comments": "Artificial intelligence morphing into artificial life, threatening life as we know it. Nano-bots and their hive mentality, swarming and learning. Sounds like a winner, but it didn't even reach mediocre for me.<---F> The uber-thin characterizations capped it</---F>. I remember liking this author's Jurassic Park and The Andromeda Strain, but this one didn't do much for me. I remember I first learned that Jurassic Park was actually a book - that was sometime last year. Well,<---M> I read it this year</---M>, and Jurassic Park turned out to be one of the best books I've ever read. And then I saw <+++>Prey</+++> by <---A>Michael Crichton</---A> (<---B>the genius behind Jurassic Park</---B>) and figured \"There's no way this is as good as Jurassic Park.\" After reading it, though, I found out that <+++>Prey</+++> is another home run by Michael Crichton, a spectacular book comparable to Jurassic Park, and probably a top three book I remember I first learned that Jurassic Park was actually a book - that was sometime last year. Well, I read it this year, and Jurassic Park turned out to be one of the best books I've ever read. And then I saw Prey by Michael Crichton (the genius behind Jurassic Park) and figured \"There's no way this is as good as Jurassic Park.\" After reading it, though, I found out that Prey is another home run by Michael Crichton, a spectacular book comparable to Jurassic Park, and probably a top three book I've ever read (not counting The Series of Unfortunate Events, of course). Prey is a first-person story about Jack Foreman, a former employee at MediaTronics (sorry if I mess up the plotline; I finished the book in January). Jack, unfortunately, got fired from MediaTronics; and now, Jack is a stay-at-home dad. Jack's wife, Julia, works at Xymos, a rival corporation, and Jack believes that Julia is having an affair with Ricky, who owns Xymos. Eventually, Julia shows Jack a new creation at Xymos: a cloud of nanocameras that works as one big camera that Julia says are meant for medical purposes. Soon thereafter, Ricky invites Jack to the Xymos laboratory in Nevada to help fix a problem. The problem is, one of the camera swarms got loose. And it is learning and adapting - and soon enough, it starts killing off the Xymos scientists. Throughout the adventure in Nevada, Jack learns the truth about the nanocameras, the truth about Ricky and Julia, and Jack even gets to meet some of his former employees. Prey starts off slow, setting everything up; but once it gets going, it doesn't stop. Prey is an extremely exciting and adrenaline-packed book. It has a lot: suspected affairs, killer nanobots, explosions, and the like. and it is all extremely fun to read. The book is also written in Michael Crichton's informal style, and that makes Prey that much more exciting and fun to read. The book does a spectacular job making you actually develop feelings toward the characters, and I found myself rooting for Jack in the final scene against the bad guys. Also, I found myself feeling dislike for Julia and Ricky throughout the book. And, being Michael Crichton, you get to learn stuff, and you get to have fun doing it. So all in all, Prey is a spectacular book. It is not as good as Jurassic Park, but Prey sure comes close. The energy, pacing, and action of Prey, as well as the sheer entertainment value, make Prey one of my favorite books of all time. ...more DNF at page 175/369. Dear book, It's me, not you. I was really into you in the beginning, but you lost me when you got too technical. That's when I lost my interest in you. There was no coming back from that. While I found your premise fascinating and terrifying at the beginning, after you lost me, the premise wasn't interesting to me anymore. This is purely me, and is not your fault. You see, I have an addiction to the Kate Daniels series. I was spending time with you while waiting for the buddy DNF at page 175/369. Dear book, It's me, not you. I was really into you in the beginning, but you lost me when you got too technical. That's when I lost my interest in you. There was no coming back from that. While I found your premise fascinating and terrifying at the beginning, after you lost me, the premise wasn't interesting to me anymore. This is purely me, and is not your fault. You see, I have an addiction to the Kate Daniels series. I was spending time with you while waiting for the buddy reread I'm doing of Kate Daniels to be ready for the next book. You didn't stand a chance. When I'm in KD mode, not much lives up to par. I'm sorry for the one star rating I'm giving you. I debated not rating you at all. However, I always rate DNFs with one star, so I would've hurt the rest of the shelf's feelings if I didn't. I'm really sorry. Maybe one day we can resume our relationship. ...more It was always going to be asking too much to go 3 for 3 (5 star ratings for both Jurassic Park and Timeline). This was still a fairly entertaining book. I think the science was there, for some reason Crichton fails to add in the element of horror or fear. This results in a big 'So, what?' factor. Still a good book, but read Timeline or Jurassic Park first Timeline Jurassic Park I used to love Crichton. I got on a kick in high school where I read Jurassic Park, Terminal Man, Andromeda Strain, and Congo, and I liked them all. The stories and characters were overused stereotypes, but I always felt like I learned something because Crichton did such thorough research. The last 2 I tried to read were Timeline and Prey. I couldn't even finish either one. The science was SOOO bad. I don't know if I've just gotten more sophisticated, or if he's jumped the shark, but I can't imag I used to love Crichton. I got on a kick in high school where I read Jurassic Park, Terminal Man, Andromeda Strain, and Congo, and I liked them all. The stories and characters were overused stereotypes, but I always felt like I learned something because Crichton did such thorough research. The last 2 I tried to read were Timeline and Prey. I couldn't even finish either one. The science was SOOO bad. I don't know if I've just gotten more sophisticated, or if he's jumped the shark, but I can't imagine trying to read another one of his books again. ...more Probably the worst book I have ever read (and believe me, that's saying something!). Michael Crichton (who used to write so well!) offends every branch of the sciences in this book. Suspending disbelief is one thing, but to buy this book would require a frontal lobotomy. Unless you want to have your intelligence offended, don't bother. If someone recommended to me a book about shape-shifting creatures who feed on human flesh to spawn and have a central mothership nest in the middle of a desert, I think I would have never, ever picked up that book and recommended Twilight to that person in return, out of sheer spite. Yes, and I think I would have picked Twilight over this kind of book in a heartbeat. Well, what do ya know, those would have been the most horrible mistakes that I could have ever committed in my life. Well, never j If someone recommended to me a book about shape-shifting creatures who feed on human flesh to spawn and have a central mothership nest in the middle of a desert, I think I would have never, ever picked up that book and recommended Twilight to that person in return, out of sheer spite. Yes, and I think I would have picked Twilight over this kind of book in a heartbeat. Well, what do ya know, those would have been the most horrible mistakes that I could have ever committed in my life. Well, never judge a book by it's cover, or blurb, seriously. If you have noticed, most of my books in my shelves consist mainly of the romance and young adult genre. I'm sure some people out there have labelled me as sappy and shallow by now. But wait! I'll prove you wrong. I've finally read a Michael Crichton book. Ha! I AM WELL-READ, DEEPLY INTELLECTUAL AND SCIENTIFICALLY KNOWLEDGABLE! HAHAHAHAHAHAHA....! Yeah, I'm exaggerating here, and having finished a Michael Crichton book from first page to last should not be the (only) benchmark to judge whether people are just shallow-minded or not. But reading a Michael Crichton book is anything but easy. It's mind-boggling. It's like reading an entire Encyclopedia and learning how to see the interdisciplinarity between the many scientific fields out there. Wow. From computer programming to distributive intelligence to emergent behavior to parasitism and symbiosis to microbiology. A-freaking-mazing. Crichton seems to have an inspirations-overload and regurgitated his entire bachelor and postgraduate Science degrees (Ok, I don't really know the educational background of Crichton, but if he didn't graduate from Science in reality, you definitely would have a hard time convincing me otherwise.) in one entire book without making the storyline seem haphazard. The plot actually makes a lot of sense. I would love to have Crichton as my Science teacher. Hailed as a typical Michael Crichton classic, Prey is a book about a group of white-collar scientists and engineers embarking on an ambitious project only to have things turn awry and ultimately out of their control when they come to realize their so-called project seems to have a mind of its own and turns against the researchers. The brilliance of the book lies in the usage of scientific facts to corroborate the plot so that readers will be convinced of the plot's reality. It's like a forboding prelude to the scientific problems mankind will face in the near future. I bet Crichton's first book ever as a kid in the sixties or seventies (I'm just guessing and am probably wrong; I don't even know his age) is about environmental pollution and climate change. Crichton's book has an unnerving portent for technology-caused calamities which I can only prey - oops! I meant pray will not come true. I'm so proud of myself; I can now spout big words like microbrewery, self-organization, lithotrophic base and assembler design (Ok, with a very ambiguous understanding about what each of the words mean)! This book is not for lazyheads. Merely to comprehend the basic idea of how the predators (not the dinosaurs from Jurrasic Park, but the predators in Prey - Ok, that sounds really weird - and sorry, I cannot be more specific about what the predators are or I'll be giving the most shocking part of the book away; think bees crossed with zombies - Ok, that must have seemed even weirder) came into existence requires readers' full attention to the scientific facts weaved throughout the story. I know most of the reviews for this book on Goodreads are quite negative, but as a student who hasn't gone to college yet, my advantage is that I don't have to suspend any disbeliefs (I don't have any to suspend, sadly) to find the book a believable read. This book makes me want to embark on a science-related career to see firsthand the miracles of science and the coolest technologies that can be invented; yet the book makes me hesitant to study science in fear of having the pleasure of reading sci-fi books lost to me forever. Ironic. Prey is not merely for nerds. There are plenty of action and suspense throughout the book for everyone and anyone (Ok, maybe just anyone who loves action and science) to enjoy. This book is not for the faint-hearted! Before I end this review, I would like to leave readers with a few words of caution: beware of human-eating shape-shifting pee-in-your-pants-inducing predators! According to Crichton, yes, the existence of such creatures seems frighteningly possible and vivid in the near future with the advancement of science. No, I am not talking about the vampires from Twilight, *wink wink. Unless Crichton starts a new book about how vampires can actually exist from the viewpoint of science, I will never believe in the existence of Twilight vampires. God, I would LURRRRVE to see Crichton try. ...more Like all Chrichton books, I really enjoyed this blend of modern technology, science, and fiction. It's an entertaining way to learn something new while enjoying a decent story. Yeah, it can be a slower read at times while you work thru the descriptive science, but I never felt that it distracted from the experience. Not as good as Jurassic Park, but a tad better than Sphere and much better than Congo, Timeline, & Eaters of the Dead. This is the only book I have intentionally left on a plane after reading it. It is so mind-numbingly stupid as to defy belief. Its pretty sad when completely nonsensical science gets combined with a dumb story. Get either of them about right and I'm happy, get both of them terribly wrong and I want my money back. I had to read this book for my second-semester artificial intelligence class because it deals with nano-bots that use swarm-intelligence--something we were studying at the time. Basically the idea is that large groups of individually \"stupid\" agents can potentially display seemingly intelligent behavior. Think about insects: ants are a good example. Each ant is incredibly stupid, and by itself would wander aimlessly and accomplish nothing. But a very simple set of pre-defined behaviors causes th I had to read this book for my second-semester artificial intelligence class because it deals with nano-bots that use swarm-intelligence--something we were studying at the time. Basically the idea is that large groups of individually \"stupid\" agents can potentially display seemingly intelligent behavior. Think about insects: ants are a good example. Each ant is incredibly stupid, and by itself would wander aimlessly and accomplish nothing. But a very simple set of pre-defined behaviors causes the ants, as a whole, to very quickly find food and form direct lines to bring it back to the nest. Swarming insects, flocking birds, schooling fish, and herding animals, use a similar concept. It's a big area of research in AI right now: the idea being that you can make really cheap, individual robots that exhibit some desired intelligent behavior when working together. Of course, they're all using small robots with wheels, because there's no such thing as flying nano-bots (yet... DUHN DUHN). Anyway, the book is mildly interesting as it explores what might happen if some of these robots got out of control. He does a pretty good job of have a viable--though admittedly speculative--scientific foundation, but then he kind of runs away with it. The story is action-filled and suspenseful--basically, what you'd expect of a Crichton novel--but I don't think it would measure up to something like Jurassic Park, though I can't say for certain because I've never read anything else by him. It's kind of the literary equivalent of an episode of 24 . ...more Hated this book! I am convinced that this was done by a ghost writer as it was not up to Crichton's normal detailed story telling. I was bored, I didn't believe the story, and the characters were flat for me. Gag. U uvodu autor opisuje kako \u0107e se nano tehnologija, molekularna biologija i umjetna inteligencija (kompjuterski programi koji sami u\u010de) spojiti i tako \u0107e do\u0107i do stvaranja novog oblika \u017eivota \u010dije pona\u0161anje i daljni razvoj ne mo\u017eemo unaprijed predvidjeti. Upozorava da moramo biti vrlo pa\u017eljivi i unaprijed odrediti pravila za kontolu. \u0160to bi se dogodilo da se takav \u017eivot razvije prije nego li definiramo pravila i ograni\u010denja? Tu kre\u0107e zaplet ovog romana. Po\u010detak je obe\u0107avao. Doga\u0111aje pratimo o\u010dima U uvodu autor opisuje kako \u0107e se nano tehnologija, molekularna biologija i umjetna inteligencija (kompjuterski programi koji sami u\u010de) spojiti i tako \u0107e do\u0107i do stvaranja novog oblika \u017eivota \u010dije pona\u0161anje i daljni razvoj ne mo\u017eemo unaprijed predvidjeti. Upozorava da moramo biti vrlo pa\u017eljivi i unaprijed odrediti pravila za kontolu. \u0160to bi se dogodilo da se takav \u017eivot razvije prije nego li definiramo pravila i ograni\u010denja? Tu kre\u0107e zaplet ovog romana. Po\u010detak je obe\u0107avao. Doga\u0111aje pratimo o\u010dima glavnog lika koji je nepravedno otpu\u0161teni kompjuterski programer sada u ulozi stay at home dad (nisam siguran koji je doma\u0107i sinonim). Ubrzo primjeti da mu se \u017eena druga\u010dije pona\u0161a. Ostaje du\u017ee na poslu i tu\u0161ira se \u010dim do\u0111e. Da li ga vara? Dobro, ovo sad zvu\u010di kao sapunica, no uklopljeno je u radnju i dobiva se uvid u psihu glavnog lika. Crichton je htio spojiti obiteljsku dramu sa glavnim zapletom, ali na\u017ealost drugi dio romana mijenja tempo i rekao bih \u017eanr pa postupno iz ozbiljnog znanstveno utemeljenog trilera prelazi u akcijski SF B kategorije s elementima trasha. I tu je problem. Trebalo je biti ili jedno ili drugo. A vi\u0161e bih volio da je prvo. \u201cWe think we know what we are doing. We have always thought so.\u201d \u201cThey didn't understand what they were doing. I'm afraid that will be on the tombstone of the human race.\u201d Ova dva citata sumiraju ono \u0161to je Michael Crichton htio re\u0107i ovim romanom. Dobra je to poruka ali smeta me \u0161to je ju je i\u0161ao tako pojednostaviti i \u0161to je podredio radnju i likove tome. Svakako je mogao barem izostaviti poja\u0161njenje na kraju - kao da je bio problem povezati radnju. Da je samo upakirao svoja promi\u0161ljanja u scenarij koji je uvjerljiviji te pustio da sami slo\u017eimo kockice i izvu\u010demo svoje zaklju\u010dake roman bi bio puno bolji i imao ja\u010di efekt. \u0160teta, bilo je tu potencijala, ovako jedva trojka. ...more (David and Jack talking about the rogue micro-robotic swarm outside the facility) Jack: \"...So what you're telling me is that this swarm reproduces, is self sustaining, learns from experience, has collective intelligence, and can innovate to solve problems.\" David: \"Yes.\" Jack: \"Which means for all practical purposes, it's alive...you realize that you're talking about a mechanical plague. that's what you've got here. It's just a bacterial plague, or a viral plague. Except it's mechanical organisms (David and Jack talking about the rogue micro-robotic swarm outside the facility) Jack: \"...So what you're telling me is that this swarm reproduces, is self sustaining, learns from experience, has collective intelligence, and can innovate to solve problems.\" David: \"Yes.\" Jack: \"Which means for all practical purposes, it's alive...you realize that you're talking about a mechanical plague. that's what you've got here. It's just a bacterial plague, or a viral plague. Except it's mechanical organisms. You've got a man-made plague that's evolving.\" David: \"Yes...and pretty damn fast.\" Jack Forman is a stay at home dad/husband who lost his job as a computer programmer after revealing a scandal at his old job and his wife works for a company called Xymos and works long hours. One night she comes home and starts acting really strange and out of nowhere has an argument with Jack for no apparent reason and even for a few days he sees weird behavior with her and comes to the conclussion she may be having an affair. A few days later, his wife, Julia, is in a terrible car accident and earlier that day he gets a phone call from an old friend and coworker along with Julia named Ricky who asks Jack to come to the Nevada desert and help the company with a project they're working on. At the scene, she manages to say things like, \"It's not what you think\" and \"Promise me you won't get involved in this Jack\" and he \"promises.\" So, Jack goes to Nevada. Ricky takes him on a tour of the facility and meets the crew and tells him they made these nanorobotics with a code Jack himself had created called PREDPREY. Only, these nanorobotics aren't matching the same behavior as his code is set up and thinks Ricky is lying to him and even tries to confront him a few times about it and gives up. Later that day, Jack witnesses this nanorobotic swarm (which has reproduced to 3 separate swarms and imagine 3+ swarms later on too but are deadly, evolving, and kills anything that moves) go in for a kill at a rabbit and learns it's killing anything that basically moves and KNOWS something is up and is scared to death. And what he doesn't know is that his day is going to be REALLY long and is just seeing the beginning of this rogue nanorobotic swarm that keeps reproducing by the hour. Many secrets are being kept, the swarm(s) become more dangerous (at the same time exciting too haha but creepy) and I DEFINITELY don't want to encouner one of those things after this book. There's one thing to do: so basically Ricky and Jacks relationship with this swarm and destroying it is all Elrond/Isilidur moment so great fun on that part and the rest is well....I don't want to give too much away and plus this book was such a struggle on how I was going to write this review. So I honestly HATE HATE HAAAATE science/engineering and even though Crichton has a good chunk of boring science stuff in the middle and some at the beginning, (KEEP GOING and don't worry about remembering too much of what's being said) about page 195-200 on (paperback edition) to get REALLY REALLY good and Crichton truly could write a thriller into a book like this. Now it may be boring to a lot of people BUT there's two things you NEED to know reading this book and keep in mind up until page 200. FIRST you'll be doing this before you get there.... BUT you'll need to remember this for the second thing..... I mean, I was HOOKED after that and honestly made this nanorobotic swarm too creepy, in a weird way gave me the chills once in awhile, it kept me up to almost 3 in the morning, and the end was.......WOW! JUST WOW!!! No way to really explain it. ESPECIALLY that \"last chapter\" where EVERYTHING AND I MEAN EVERYHING in the entire book is revealed and a HUUUUUGE plot twist I or anyone wouldn't have seen coming I mean this is BRILLIANT! basically there's a big lie at some point and makes you go \"what the frick did I just read?\" and I seriously can't stop thinking about a few things about it like: the research that was put into it, the thriller part of the story he added, and especially a story unlike any other and how in the freaking world did he come up with this story??!! I mean he was GENIUS! I'm just sad cancer had to take Crichton's life back in 2008 cause he seriously knew his stuff and how to write an amazing thriller. I still don't know what else to say really except that this is a MUST READ whether you like this stuff or not you have to at least finish it just because of the unanswered questions that were revealed and tied things up at the end. All I can say really is in a way, in Crichton's unique way, the book was a whole set up and ended it perfectly. But really, I can't get this story off my mind and even freaked me out so much (even though I don't like science that much but thank goodness for his examples for explanations later on), I thought I'd get nightmares. Crichton, even beyond the grave can you truly have people still love and enjoy your books. You were truly a mastermind at storytelling and putting in a great thriller all at once. #cancersucks overall, FANTASTIC read, 5 stars because of that HUUUGE plot twist near the end, brilliantly and well written, DEFINITELY one of his best works ever and to date, and just wowed me! and most of the time later on and up to the end of the book had me doing this.... and THAT is how you write a thriller ladies and gentelmen. :D so this book is HIGHLY HIGHLY recommended! So good luck reading this, and moral of the story....DON'T SCREW/MESS WITH SCIENCE!!! You never know when something is going to go wrong haha ;) ...more Ok so did jack succeed or what?!?? This was a very cloak and dagger type read. It was full of mysteries, and non-stop action! The lead character was a noble hero!! I don't think anyone could not root for him. But I am worried for the supporting characters... WHAT HAPPENED TO THEM!!! The story was a little far fetched. But idk maybe it's something that could happen, all this technology getting better and better, more and more complicated EVERYDAY!!! Kinda frightening when you think of it that way.. Ok so did jack succeed or what?!?? This was a very cloak and dagger type read. It was full of mysteries, and non-stop action! The lead character was a noble hero!! I don't think anyone could not root for him. But I am worried for the supporting characters... WHAT HAPPENED TO THEM!!! The story was a little far fetched. But idk maybe it's something that could happen, all this technology getting better and better, more and more complicated EVERYDAY!!! Kinda frightening when you think of it that way.... ...more Ehh, it was alright. The concept was interesting but the characters were quite bland for my taste. The little kid who kept saying \"It's not fair\" was quite annoying. The ending I liked and the author explained just about everything that was going on and how it all went down. Overall the subject of the book was interesting and raises some questions about nanotechnology but the book itself was about average. Me encant\u00f3! Es muy ingenioso lo que propone y se ve que se basa en hechos cient\u00edficos reales, hace tiempo que quer\u00eda leer algo m\u00e1s del autor, s\u00f3lo hab\u00eda le\u00eddo Rescate en el tiempo que me encant\u00f3 tambi\u00e9n. A really good hard science fiction novel illustrating the potential danger of nanotechnology would be a welcome addition. Prey is not that novel. Here\u2019s the plot: Somewhere in the Nevada desert, a hi-tech corporation has been experimenting with nanotechnology swarms. Of course, the little critters get loose and begin evolving into fierce predators. Jack Foreman, an expert in designing computer programs that mimic the behavior of swarming animals, is called in to deal with the swarm. Jack\u2019s wife A really good hard science fiction novel illustrating the potential danger of nanotechnology would be a welcome addition. Prey is not that novel. Here\u2019s the plot: Somewhere in the Nevada desert, a hi-tech corporation has been experimenting with nanotechnology swarms. Of course, the little critters get loose and begin evolving into fierce predators. Jack Foreman, an expert in designing computer programs that mimic the behavior of swarming animals, is called in to deal with the swarm. Jack\u2019s wife is a Vice-President at the firm, but she hasn\u2019t clued Jack into the big picture. I won\u2019t give it away, but the swarm evolves so rapidly \u2013 and unbelievably \u2013 it\u2019s difficult to sustain belief in the storyline. Actually, it\u2019s impossible. Adding to the disappointment are B-movie characters that blur into the background, their tracks sinking out of sight in the sand of a sluggish plot. ...more This book was mentioned in an invited lecture, I had the fortune to attend today. Professor was reminiscing an old nano conference, where researchers were actually frightened over movie adaptation plans for the novel. Such was the impact of this book, scaring real scientists with science fiction. Well, I gifted my copy to a friend in Nanotechnology then, which now on retrospection feels like a total evil move. Re-read after thirteen years. Still, it was an entertaining read. A techno-thriller, but I enjoyed reading the SF part of it: a bit of Biotechnology, added with Nanotechnology & Self-evolving Artificial Distributed Intelligence. Good suspense and pace. The theme of the book is not yet dated. The book's message, to us humankind, is about the dangers of inventions when Biotech and Nanotech converges with Computer Programming and AI. Suggested reading, at least once. :) I found Prey on the bookshelf of a lodge we were staying at over the weekend and thought it seemed like a good mindless vacation read. I used to like Michael Chrichton (Juraissic Park, Disclosure) but hadn't read any in a while. Sadly, the poor writing quality kept jerking me out of what was otherwise a decent story. I don't know whether this is because his writing has gone downhill or my standards have just changed. The premise is exciting enough (nano-robots gone rogue) but Chrichton keeps break I found Prey on the bookshelf of a lodge we were staying at over the weekend and thought it seemed like a good mindless vacation read. I used to like Michael Chrichton (Juraissic Park, Disclosure) but hadn't read any in a while. Sadly, the poor writing quality kept jerking me out of what was otherwise a decent story. I don't know whether this is because his writing has gone downhill or my standards have just changed. The premise is exciting enough (nano-robots gone rogue) but Chrichton keeps breaking the action to give either wooden details about the stay-at-home Dad's domestic life, or long-winded descriptions of nano-technology. A good sci-fi writer should be able to work the latter into the story without paragraphs of exposition. It also goes without saying that the science is far from realistic but written in a way to make it seem plausible and current. I know this is Chrichton's style, but it bothered me more than it used to. Maybe it's an \"uncanny valley\" - I can handle science fiction that doesn't proclaim to be real, or non-fiction books about technology, but this falls in an uncomfortable middle. Never mind the idea that an incredibly talented software engineer would be unable to find a job for a year because he had one bad boss and \"Silicon Valley is a small place\". At least I hope this isn't true... :) ...more Because you see, when you write \"Later I was able to see all this from the Camera footage\" at the peak of life-n-death moments, there remains no imagination about the ending and it really ruins the book. Nothing actually happens throughout the first half of a 500 page book other than a rabbit getting killed. Even after that it goes on to repeat a routine of \"we have to go outside!...oh no!the bugs are coming!run inside!...one died\" again and again. Finally it picks up just before it ends and lea Because you see, when you write \"Later I was able to see all this from the Camera footage\" at the peak of life-n-death moments, there remains no imagination about the ending and it really ruins the book. Nothing actually happens throughout the first half of a 500 page book other than a rabbit getting killed. Even after that it goes on to repeat a routine of \"we have to go outside!...oh no!the bugs are coming!run inside!...one died\" again and again. Finally it picks up just before it ends and leaves without any proper explanations of whatever happened. One of the slowest science fiction I have ever read. ...more I thought this book was pretty good, even though I'm not huge into science fiction. I've seen that lots of people review this book and say that the science is so farfetched that it's unbelievable and stupid, but honestly, it's fiction. It's not supposed to be perfectly believable. Suspension of disbelief is required when reading this. I personally just enjoy books that can entertain me, and this one did. It brought up some interesting \"what if\" concepts, even though they would never really happe I thought this book was pretty good, even though I'm not huge into science fiction. I've seen that lots of people review this book and say that the science is so farfetched that it's unbelievable and stupid, but honestly, it's fiction. It's not supposed to be perfectly believable. Suspension of disbelief is required when reading this. I personally just enjoy books that can entertain me, and this one did. It brought up some interesting \"what if\" concepts, even though they would never really happen in real life. The logic was still interesting. However, I will say that the characters were not really very developed. I didn't bother trying to remember what names went with which description of each person when Jack went to the fab factory because the characters were stereotypical and not really important as individuals. Also, there was a lot of cussing, which I didn't like. Overall, I enjoyed this book. I recommend it if you are into science fiction, but you must remember that it is fiction and not take it seriously at all. It really is unbelievably farfetched, but that's the point of fiction, anyway. It's meant to entertain. ...more What a great book. Only the second Crichton novel I've read, but I'm really enjoying his style. It's a quick-read, and once the action starts, it barely lets up. Prey shows Crichton definitely knows how to write characters, dialogue, and a damn interesting plot. The whole sci-fi aspect of nanobots is an intriguing one, and it certainly lends itself to the ideas of evolution and nature. The only \"fault\" with the book is, jeeze, there's a ton of science in it. Which isn't necessarily bad. He'll thr What a great book. Only the second Crichton novel I've read, but I'm really enjoying his style. It's a quick-read, and once the action starts, it barely lets up. Prey shows Crichton definitely knows how to write characters, dialogue, and a damn interesting plot. The whole sci-fi aspect of nanobots is an intriguing one, and it certainly lends itself to the ideas of evolution and nature. The only \"fault\" with the book is, jeeze, there's a ton of science in it. Which isn't necessarily bad. He'll throw the science in between other paragraphs, just so we readers understand what the characters are talking about, and that's great. You can tell Crichton researched the hell out of this topic. But we don't need all of it. Get rid of a few passages and the story would keep the pace, and we'd be able to gleam the basics of the science. Really, that's a small fault. Everything else is absolutely wonderful. This was a definite fun read. ...more Part sci-fi, part potential pre-apocalypse. If that is even possible.I enjoyed the juxtaposition of the stay at home dad vs. stay at home mom. Actually, I enjoyed the first part of the book, much better than the last part. I think it touched something I could relate to. I enjoyed the harried housedad immensely. I thought, I have seen that guy. I may not understand the techno babble so much, but I get the idea of nano technology. It could go really good, or really bad. Maybe there are just some t Part sci-fi, part potential pre-apocalypse. If that is even possible.I enjoyed the juxtaposition of the stay at home dad vs. stay at home mom. Actually, I enjoyed the first part of the book, much better than the last part. I think it touched something I could relate to. I enjoyed the harried housedad immensely. I thought, I have seen that guy. I may not understand the techno babble so much, but I get the idea of nano technology. It could go really good, or really bad. Maybe there are just some things we should not do. Maybe there should be some required ethics class for all these kinds of things. But I have a soft place in my heart for all things plague. I find them immensely interesting and terrifying all at once. And that is why I gave this 4 stars. The last part of the story fell a bit flat, even if was \"the climax\". It felt wrapped up a little to quickly. And a little Hollywood. None the less, I could not put the book down. ...more This was easily Michael Crichton's weakest plot recently. The novel still manages to be engaging as Michael, even at his near-worst, always seems to be able to bring characters to life through dialogue rather than descriptions. The plot is fast-paced, the story-telling is engaging, but... as the plot unfolds, it is starting to verge on the ridiculous. Swarms of nanoparticles imitate their hosts and create doppelgaengers that interact with real people. Yea right. Not that realism is a valid bench This was easily Michael Crichton's weakest plot recently. The novel still manages to be engaging as Michael, even at his near-worst, always seems to be able to bring characters to life through dialogue rather than descriptions. The plot is fast-paced, the story-telling is engaging, but... as the plot unfolds, it is starting to verge on the ridiculous. Swarms of nanoparticles imitate their hosts and create doppelgaengers that interact with real people. Yea right. Not that realism is a valid benchmark for literature. But internal consistency is. It is not good \"craftsmanship\" if a novel starts out as a fast-paced thriller and half-way through changes its mind and wishes to be a SciFi/Horror novel in the style of Peter F Hamilton. I think, anyway. ...more The premises were all good: an interesting sci-fi concept and Crichton\u2019s direct writing style (which I liked in Jurassic Park, Sphere, etc.) so Prey seemed a great fit for me. Unfortunately the book deteriorated into a B-horror movie script including the over the top finale ( (view spoiler) [massive-blast-that-kills-all-the-baddies-while-the-hero-swaggers-away (hide spoiler) ] ). Better stick with the much better Crichton\u2019s earlier novels. Idea behind the book is very catching and gives small introduction to machine learning and other IT techniques. But why is the main character intelligent in one moment and dumb as as a doorstop in next? Review later when I actually have time! The narration is great on this audiobook but I have a few complaints. 1. I know we need to know some of the basics about nano-technology but this seemed way too much. I've read Crichton before so I'm familiar with his way of teaching you a little, but maybe it was the subject matter I didn't care for. Mind wandering often. 2. Jack is not taking any of this serious enough. The swarms are killing people. They tell him to run, he asks why. They say the swarms are coming, he says just a minute. They The narration is great on this audiobook but I have a few complaints. 1. I know we need to know some of the basics about nano-technology but this seemed way too much. I've read Crichton before so I'm familiar with his way of teaching you a little, but maybe it was the subject matter I didn't care for. Mind wandering often. 2. Jack is not taking any of this serious enough. The swarms are killing people. They tell him to run, he asks why. They say the swarms are coming, he says just a minute. They start yelling to run, he jogs and then doesn't make it to the door. That's classic dip-shit behavior if you ask me. 3. You find out your wife may be having an affair and/or possessed by an evil swarm. No tears for your lost love or anger at what she may be doing with a co-employee. He's a little pissy, but that's about it. Even toward the end when he sees glimpses of the wife he loved, he's all ho-hum not grasping her in a heartfelt embrace. He should never marry again. He has no emotional level beyond frustrated and pissy. So, in conclusion, the book wasn't so good. I thought it would be, there were some gripping parts, but even with death and destruction all around them, no crying or fists banging on tables yelling, \"WHY?!\" isn't realistic to me. Unless you're a huge Crichton fan and must read his books in order, put this at the bottom of your TBR Crichton stack. ...more This was the closest thing I've found of Crichton's later work that could compare to his early science fiction. It's still not as compelling or entertaining as Sphere or The Andromeda Strain , but it's much better than Timeline or Airframe . Crichton definitely felt compelled to turn his later books into near research papers, loading them with all of the information he came upon in learning about the subject. That, more than anything, is the difference between why this didn't work for me as much a This was the closest thing I've found of Crichton's later work that could compare to his early science fiction. It's still not as compelling or entertaining as Sphere or The Andromeda Strain , but it's much better than Timeline or Airframe . Crichton definitely felt compelled to turn his later books into near research papers, loading them with all of the information he came upon in learning about the subject. That, more than anything, is the difference between why this didn't work for me as much as his early books. ...more<---C>Michael Crichton</---C>", "Title": "Prey"},
