{"Comments": "*I received a free ARC of <+++>Yours Truly, Taddy</+++> from Netgally in exchange of an honest review* I stopped reading <+++>Yours Truly, Taddy</+++> in the first chapter. The main reason for my DNF is this quote: However, I'm pretty sure Fabian is a bisexual or possibly a homosexual with shame issues.<---F> Yup, I love my gays</---F>. Dont' get me wrong. However, bisexual? Come on. What is this, the 90's? Straights and gays had to choose. Why shouldn't they? I did not want to spend any more time reading about a character who thin *I received a free ARC of Yours Truly, Taddy from Netgally in exchange of an honest review* I stopped reading Yours Truly, Taddy in the first chapter. The main reason for my DNF is this quote: However, I'm pretty sure Fabian is a bisexual or possibly a homosexual with shame issues. Yup, I love my gays. Dont' get me wrong. However, bisexual? Come on. What is this, the 90's? Straights and gays had to choose. Why shouldn't they? I did not want to spend any more time reading about a character who thinks anyone at all 'chooses' who they fall in love with. To me,<---M> we are born hetero</---M>, bi, gay or trans, and there is no shame involved in any of those (<---B>or others that I may not have even thought about!</---B>). ...more ARC provided on behalf of Romance Beckons from NetGalley. In the second part of the Undergrad Years we focus on Taddy. Her and her besties have had their share of bad luck and when things can't seem to get any worse their plane crashes, leaving Taddy separated from her BBFs and alone in the ocean with Leon one of the three men who have had her panties in a twist for last few days. Taddy Brill, has to face the fact that without money to her name she has to use what she's been given so that she can ARC provided on behalf of Romance Beckons from NetGalley. In the second part of the Undergrad Years we focus on Taddy. Her and her besties have had their share of bad luck and when things can't seem to get any worse their plane crashes, leaving Taddy separated from her BBFs and alone in the ocean with Leon one of the three men who have had her panties in a twist for last few days. Taddy Brill, has to face the fact that without money to her name she has to use what she's been given so that she can achieve her goals, sure her friends wouldn't dare let her go without - but Taddy doesn't want a handout. This modeling gig is going to ensure that she has the money needed for her first year at college. What she never imagined was losing her v-card in the process and she certainly did not expect the new desires she was feeling. Another great installment from <---A>Avery Aster</---A> that mixes humor and schmexy! There is no doubt that when you crack open anything from this author you are going to enjoy yourself. ...more Some parents shouldn\u2019t be allowed to procreate, as is the case with Taddy\u2019s. she has been emancipated from them and her trust fund has been spirited away. Using her looks to gain a modeling gig, she has the opportunity to get into college and move forward, but a plane crash could end not only her plans for the future, but the opportunity to even have a future! Surviving, she realizes she still needs that modeling money and is backed into a corner, one that could make her a modeling star or ruin Some parents shouldn\u2019t be allowed to procreate, as is the case with Taddy\u2019s. she has been emancipated from them and her trust fund has been spirited away. Using her looks to gain a modeling gig, she has the opportunity to get into college and move forward, but a plane crash could end not only her plans for the future, but the opportunity to even have a future! Surviving, she realizes she still needs that modeling money and is backed into a corner, one that could make her a modeling star or ruin her reputation. Between her fantasies and her realities, Taddy\u2019s life resembles the flotsam left from the crash. For a girl who is serious about succeeding, without wealthy parents to fall back on, her future is beginning to look like a vortex of uncertainty. Yours Truly, Taddy by Avery Aster is, for me, the proof I needed that Ms. Aster can write! Taddy is the most likable of the three best friends, the most level-headed and the most appreciative of what she has without the drama of a soap opera queen or the bull in the china shop attitude of her two best friends. I absolutely enjoyed this snarky, fun romp inside the head of Taddy, as she maneuvers situations far different than she has ever known. I received this copy from Avery Aster in exchange for my honest review. Series: The Undergrad Years - Book 2 Publication Date: April 11, 2014 Publisher: Avery Aster ISBN: 9781499128789 Genre: NA Romance Print Length: 192 pages Available from: Amazon | Barnes & Noble ...more Taddy Brill, emancipated from her parents at a young age, finds out that her estranged parents emptied the trust fund that she was given as part of her emancipation settlement. Since she was counting on that money to pay for her time at Columbia University, she now has to come up with her tuition or she won\u2019t be able to start classes. When her best friends mom lands her a modeling gig with her own agency, Taddy is less than thrilled, but it will pay for her entire college career. Accepting it p Taddy Brill, emancipated from her parents at a young age, finds out that her estranged parents emptied the trust fund that she was given as part of her emancipation settlement. Since she was counting on that money to pay for her time at Columbia University, she now has to come up with her tuition or she won\u2019t be able to start classes. When her best friends mom lands her a modeling gig with her own agency, Taddy is less than thrilled, but it will pay for her entire college career. Accepting it put her on a plane about to crash somewhere in the ocean on the way to Martinique. As I\u2019ve said before, I love Avery Asters books. I always get a good chuckle and the sex is usually steamy and over the top. This book is basically the making of Taddy Brill. No more just the discarded daughter of royalty, Taddy becomes her own person and reinvents herself. Again, the writing is vivid and colorful and you will be drawn even further into the world of the Manhattanites. These books are fun, tongue in cheek, and a great read. I recommend them to anyone looking for a good storyline with lots of sex and drama, as only a series in New York could be. ...more Holy Crapstick!! Crazy funny. Laughed outloud and was quite suprised at some of the scenes i thought that were going to go a different way. Taddy is quirky and funny and she has the worlds best of friends!! The Invitation to Eden series has sucked me in and can not wait to read the rest I think The Undergrad Years series, and Ms. Aster's Manhattanites series, are the kind that people either like or don't. I fall into the 'like' category. And here's why...years ago, when my kids were younger, a group of friends and I would go away on scrapbooking weekends. On these weekends, one of us would bring DVDs of Sex in the City, and we'd have SitC marathons while we scrapbooked. This is where I was introduced to this completely foreign and outrageously outlandish lifestyle. The Undergra I think The Undergrad Years series, and Ms. Aster's Manhattanites series, are the kind that people either like or don't. I fall into the 'like' category. And here's why...years ago, when my kids were younger, a group of friends and I would go away on scrapbooking weekends. On these weekends, one of us would bring DVDs of Sex in the City, and we'd have SitC marathons while we scrapbooked. This is where I was introduced to this completely foreign and outrageously outlandish lifestyle. The Undergrad Years and The Manhattanites series read like episodes of Sex in the City. They are salacious, outlandish, and fun. Are they fine literary works? No. But entertaining? Definitely. Yours Truly, Taddy was quite an adventure. Taddy learned a few things about herself. And, as always, we got to see how tight the bonds between this foursome, Taddy, Lex, Vive, and Blake, are. Having read Unscrupulous, I had a familiarity with Taddy's life. I really enjoyed this view into the moment in time where Taddy finally gave herself permission to embrace who she was and earn the money she'd eventually use for her future. Taddy is the definition of a survivor. While she and her friends have all endured things no kid should, Taddy had it hardest, in my opinion. Having your parents do what Taddy's did...well, it takes a strong person to survive that. But Taddy figured out what she needed to do and did it. In Yours Truly, Taddy, she faces another situation where she has to dig deep to determine her mettle. Are the circumstances a bit far-fetched? Yep. But for me, this is a rollicking good time. Obviously, I have an affinity for Taddy. And I'm relishing these glimpses of this foursome prior to their adult lives. I love getting these peeks at events that shaped the adults they became. Ms. Aster knows how to spin a good story. Taddy's has a more mature feel to it but it's just as entertaining. I'm anxious for the next installment, which is Blake's story. *I received a complimentary copy in exchange for an honest review.* ...more I received this book for free in exchange for an honest review. Taddy Brill's book was delicious. A true five star, in a, I-got-sucked-out-of-a-plane-with-a-very-hot-guy-and-SWAM-to-a-deserted-island-with-a-sex-resort-on-it, kind of way. And, she managed to lose her virginity in the process. Good hawt stuff, I tell you. Taddy Brill is on her way to make some cash to pay for school when the airplane goes down. She jumps out of her seat and another model jumps up as well and they get sucked throug I received this book for free in exchange for an honest review. Taddy Brill's book was delicious. A true five star, in a, I-got-sucked-out-of-a-plane-with-a-very-hot-guy-and-SWAM-to-a-deserted-island-with-a-sex-resort-on-it, kind of way. And, she managed to lose her virginity in the process. Good hawt stuff, I tell you. Taddy Brill is on her way to make some cash to pay for school when the airplane goes down. She jumps out of her seat and another model jumps up as well and they get sucked through the ceiling of the plane that has a gaping hole in it. I will stop here and tell you that I get the true heebie jeebies on planes because I believe that I will get sucked out of the plane and be thrown to earth. I won't sit in an exit row. Well, amazing as it is, Taddy lands on a piece of the plane on this deserted island that is home to an upcoming sex club. Well she ends up losing her virginity with an exceptional male model -- who turns out to be gay (absolutely no surprise there). And she is finally reunited with her friends, Lex, Vive, and Blake on the island. All and all a very good book. That I could not put down. What are you waiting for?? A must buy now. ...more Taddy Brill was six feet tall and no, she didn't play basketball. Her mom upset the family when her DNA didn't match the man she had thought was her dad and that was the end of her happy time. She learned from her BBF that her parents were swingers then at thirteen they dumped her at boarding school and never came back. Now at eighteen she and her four besties where cramped up in a plane heading to Martinique for her modeling gig. She needed the money so that should pay tuition at Columbia Unive Taddy Brill was six feet tall and no, she didn't play basketball. Her mom upset the family when her DNA didn't match the man she had thought was her dad and that was the end of her happy time. She learned from her BBF that her parents were swingers then at thirteen they dumped her at boarding school and never came back. Now at eighteen she and her four besties where cramped up in a plane heading to Martinique for her modeling gig. She needed the money so that should pay tuition at Columbia University so that they could hang out together as they'd been friends for so long that she couldn't live without them in her life. She hated tiny planes as they were never roomier enough to allow her long legs room, and she was lusted on the gorgeous Frenchmen assigned to her any one of them she'd gladly give up her virginity to. Then, a tear in the ceiling grew bigger and sucked her out of the plane as it flew over the Atlantic..................... Avery Aster tells a hilarious story of the adventures of Taddy, her two best girlfriends and her gay best friend that kept me laughing and I need to read further stories to she how much trouble see gets into! ...more I received an ARC from the author for an honest review....4 Stars I have a fond connection with these girls and they are like my book version of the ladies from Sex in The City!! This whole series has been really great background info on the leading ladies + Blake and I love all the juicy details that made them whole they are in the second series. This book picks up right where Lexie's book ended and is a journey to paradise with quite a low in the middle. Taddy is working as a model for the summ I received an ARC from the author for an honest review....4 Stars I have a fond connection with these girls and they are like my book version of the ladies from Sex in The City!! This whole series has been really great background info on the leading ladies + Blake and I love all the juicy details that made them whole they are in the second series. This book picks up right where Lexie's book ended and is a journey to paradise with quite a low in the middle. Taddy is working as a model for the summer and she has to endure three very attractive alpha French males characters during her modeling adventure. Things get crazy during a flight and Taddy ends up with Fabian in the middle of the ocean.....Things heat up and let's just say that is quite the way to loose your v-card!! The only downfall with this book is how quickly it ends and the fact that I wanted more of the French males once they get on the island. ...more Love Taddy...She's the brilliant one in the gang. Her past is not all rainbow and lollipos, she's been through a lot from young age, but that is what makes her strong girl. This book is about the beautiful of friendship. No matter what life's throw you, you always have your bestfriends at your side and back to fight and defend and protect you. This book is hilarious and intense from the beginning. I got angry and sad with Taddy, i totally can feel her emotions, and the more i know her, the more i wan Love Taddy...She's the brilliant one in the gang. Her past is not all rainbow and lollipos, she's been through a lot from young age, but that is what makes her strong girl. This book is about the beautiful of friendship. No matter what life's throw you, you always have your bestfriends at your side and back to fight and defend and protect you. This book is hilarious and intense from the beginning. I got angry and sad with Taddy, i totally can feel her emotions, and the more i know her, the more i want more. I just want more. If you're looking for fun, hilarious with strong friendship story...this book is definitely it ;) PS: there are three hot guys make appearances ;) ...more Taddy is a sexy model who is in an airplane crash and lands with one of the European Models. Who would of thought of the twists that comes with this book. I love the chemistry that Taddy and Leon share. I love this story and I was gifted a copy for an honest review. This book has everything from steamy sex and funny laugh out loud moments. Trust me when I say I think everyone should read this book. I haven't read the 1st book in this series but after reading this rather short, hot and very funny story, I probably will read the whole series. It's not exactly as good as the Mahanttanites Series, which I really liked a lot, but it's easy reading and I love this author's writing style. The characters that I became familiar with as adults are pretty funny and quirky and there were some hilarious scenes. The sex scenes...well, okay, I guess!! Yet again Avery Aster's witty prose and brilliant characters have left me laughing till my sides hurt and eagerly awaiting the next installment in the 'Undergrad years' series. 5 Stars and full review to follow. Review Courtesy of April Hollingworth A short novella from the Invitation to Eden series, this is Taddy\u2019s story. Horny as can be Taddy is sassy and funny, she cares deeply for her friends and lusts after three super hot French guys. I thought this novella was fun and exciting you just can\u2019t help yourself liking all the characters in this story. A must read, I loved it. Opening Scene: \u201cMy bestie Taddy Brill should\u2019ve taken the handout we\u2019d offered her. The Review: Flying from one photo shoot to the ne Review Courtesy of April Hollingworth A short novella from the Invitation to Eden series, this is Taddy\u2019s story. Horny as can be Taddy is sassy and funny, she cares deeply for her friends and lusts after three super hot French guys. I thought this novella was fun and exciting you just can\u2019t help yourself liking all the characters in this story. A must read, I loved it. Opening Scene: \u201cMy bestie Taddy Brill should\u2019ve taken the handout we\u2019d offered her. The Review: Flying from one photo shoot to the next to pay for college, Taddy doesn\u2019t want to be on the plane with three seriously hot French guys, that ignore her, and just make her feel really horny. Disaster strikes when the planes ceiling rips open and drags her out of it leaving her and Leon, who tried to save her, stranded in the ocean, there only hope that their friends survived and call for help. Taking a chance before they drift too far; Taddy and Leon swim for the Island of Eden. With night approaching and danger in the water Taddy and Leon have to trust each other and hope that they will see their friends again on Eden. Notable Scene: \u201cMademoiselle.\u201d A strained voice murmured behind me. It was the one that had awoken me from my dream. Sobbing, I looked over my shoulder. Leon lay a few feet behind me. His shirt was off, displaying his muscular body. Little red cuts covered his arms, hair wet and slicked back, his face sunburned. Instinctively I touched my cheeks. Irritated and hot, they felt burnt too. My body started to tremble violently, almost as if going into shock over what happened. \u201cHow long\u2026have we been\u2026on here?\u201d I glanced up at the sky. The sun wasn\u2019t up as high as when we\u2019d first taken off. \u201cHeures,\u201d he said. Leon inched himself closer to me and held out his hand to try and comfort me. \u201cPlease don\u2019t cry.\u201d \u201cI need my friends.\u201d \u201cAre you hurt anywhere?\u201d \u201cNo. I don\u2019t think so.\u201d I placed my palm against his. \u201cI feel\u2026disorientated.\u201d \u201cDid you hit your head?\u201d With his other hand, he touched the back of my neck and examined my scalp. \u201cI do not feel any bumps. What do you see?\u201d \u201cYour beautiful chest.\u201d He smirked and asked, \u201cAny white spots?\u201d Shaking my head in response, I couldn\u2019t believe we\u2019d been on this makeshift raft for hours. \u201cWhat happened?\u201d \u201cWe crashed.\u201d \u201cI get that. Where is everyone?\u201d He didn\u2019t say anything. FTC Advisory: Avery Aster, Inc provided me with a copy of Yours Truly, Taddy by Avery Aster my review. Published through Avery Aster, Inc. Kindle Edition. No goody bags, sponsorships, \u201cmaterial connections,\u201d or bribes were exchanged for my review. ...more Yours Truly, Taddy is another fabulous instalment in the Undergrad Years by Avery Aster. I absolutely love the fun banter and the loyalty between the four friends. I thought Lady V was a glamorous way of putting virginity and now that is the only way I can think of it. :) Tabitha Adelaide Brillford or Taddy Brill to everyday people is an eighteen year old with many complications in her life. Her friends think of her as a 6\u2019 tall glamazon that has the makings of a supermodel. But as Taddy graduate Yours Truly, Taddy is another fabulous instalment in the Undergrad Years by Avery Aster. I absolutely love the fun banter and the loyalty between the four friends. I thought Lady V was a glamorous way of putting virginity and now that is the only way I can think of it. :) Tabitha Adelaide Brillford or Taddy Brill to everyday people is an eighteen year old with many complications in her life. Her friends think of her as a 6\u2019 tall glamazon that has the makings of a supermodel. But as Taddy graduated top of her class and is ready to enter the world of college, she isn\u2019t just beautiful but brilliant. If Taddy wants to attend college though, her only option is to model. It seems that when Taddy was thirteen and dropped off at Avon Porter Academy, her parents\u2019 never wanted to see her again and that meant her funds were non-existent. The opportunity to travel to the Caribbean and be photographed by one of the best couldn\u2019t be turned down. In Taddy\u2019s entourage are her besties, Blake, Vive and Lex; they came along to help support Taddy and enjoy their summer before college starts. So here they were, sitting in a smallish plane on their way to the Caribbean with the photography crew in front and the only thing the four friends can think about is how incredibly hot the crew all are and whether they are interested in men or women. All of a sudden Taddy spots a tear in the ceiling of the plane and everything turns into disarray. When Taddy wakes, she is lying on debris in the ocean with Leon, their set designer. Obviously nothing went to plan. Will Leon open up to Taddy now they are the only ones floating in the ocean? What happened to the others? Will Taddy die without losing her Lady V? Will Taddy be able to attend college? I don\u2019t want to give away any of the fun that Taddy has, so you will just have to pick up the series and follow their entertaining lives and the interesting ways they copulate. Taddy is certainly my favourite character and seems to be the glue between the four friends. I cannot wait to read more by Ms Aster, whether it\u2019s from the Manhattanite\u2019s or the Undergrad Years series, I love them both. ...more This is the second in the Undergrad Years series to go with the Manhattanites. I'm completely blown away with how amazing this series is turning out to be. I wasn't prepared to love this series, I knew I'd like it because I already adored the characters but I'm not big on YA or NA or however it would be classified but this series, just WOW. Taddy Brill was the introduction to the Manhattanites, she's an amazing woman, but getting to see what drove her to become the amazing woman that she is 10 y This is the second in the Undergrad Years series to go with the Manhattanites. I'm completely blown away with how amazing this series is turning out to be. I wasn't prepared to love this series, I knew I'd like it because I already adored the characters but I'm not big on YA or NA or however it would be classified but this series, just WOW. Taddy Brill was the introduction to the Manhattanites, she's an amazing woman, but getting to see what drove her to become the amazing woman that she is 10 years later is a treat that we don't usually get with characters. Getting a glimpse into who they started out to be is a true journey. At times it's raucous, hilarious, completely over the top but then we are shown what's truly deep down. We see the hearts of the Manhattanites, the true essence of what brought them together and what holds them together. If you've met the irreverent Taddy Brill as an adult you have to wonder, how did she get to this point...and then you meet Taddy Brill as a young girl that is forced to secure her own future, make her own life, without the support of the traditional family, yet she's built another family, a stronger one that stands by her side and supports her through the hardest times of her life. You really get a feel for the pain that she has to overcome to be who she is 10 years later. I just don't have the words to say how amazing of a woman Ms. Taddy Brill was....and is. ...more *I received an ARC copy of this book in exchange for an honest review* This was a short but hot little story about my absolute favorite Manhattanite, Taddy Brill! I have read Undressed and Unscrupulous and I love Avery Aster's books, especially all the Manhattanites. This book takes us back to the beginning, and we get a glimpse as to how and why Taddy, became the strong, sexy, independent woman she is today. She is in an airplane with her best friends, Lex, Viveca, and Blake, as well as, three ho *I received an ARC copy of this book in exchange for an honest review* This was a short but hot little story about my absolute favorite Manhattanite, Taddy Brill! I have read Undressed and Unscrupulous and I love Avery Aster's books, especially all the Manhattanites. This book takes us back to the beginning, and we get a glimpse as to how and why Taddy, became the strong, sexy, independent woman she is today. She is in an airplane with her best friends, Lex, Viveca, and Blake, as well as, three hotties, on her way to a photo shoot when the plane has complications. She doesn't like modeling but she is doing it for the money, because if you know Taddy, she refuses to ask her parent's for anything. So, when she and Leon, one of the sexy men on the plane, get stranded at sea, a lot happens. We get to find out how Taddy loses her V card and we get a couple surprises about the man she loses it too. They eventually end up in Eden, an island, where anything and everything is possible. This book is sexy and funny and totally entertaining! This book is a great little escape. It was truly a fun read for me and it was great to read about the beginning of Taddy, Lex, Vive and Blake's early years. I will be reading Love Lex next. And, I seriously can't wait for Vive's story. ...more Yours Truly, Taddy is the second installment in the Undergrad Years and is just as hilarious as the first. This story is all about Taddy, Lex\u2019s BFF and her travels abroad for a modeling gig. These four \u2013 Taddy, Lex, Vive and Blake have the greatest friendship around. These four definitely will do anything and everything together and not bat an eye. The story is told from Taddy\u2019s POV and is quite entertaining. She needs the money from this modeling opportunity to pay for her college tuition or she Yours Truly, Taddy is the second installment in the Undergrad Years and is just as hilarious as the first. This story is all about Taddy, Lex\u2019s BFF and her travels abroad for a modeling gig. These four \u2013 Taddy, Lex, Vive and Blake have the greatest friendship around. These four definitely will do anything and everything together and not bat an eye. The story is told from Taddy\u2019s POV and is quite entertaining. She needs the money from this modeling opportunity to pay for her college tuition or she won\u2019t be attending with the other 3, like they have all planned. However, nothing ever goes according to plan. Their adventure begins before they ever arrive at their destination. The interaction between the secondary characters and these four is quite entertaining. Filled with lots of humor and whit, you will find yourself laughing and chuckling throughout this whole book. Avery does a really great job of writing this light-hearted and very humorous book. And I really enjoy getting to know more about these characters as we go along. They are quite the group. If you want a quick, easy and funny read \u2013 pick up this series ...more I received a copy of this book from NetGalley in place of an honest review. In the second book in this series is about Taddy Brill. I thought Lex's story was great but in this one you get more excitement. Taddy found out that if she wanted to make something of herself she will have to go out and model. She knows that she is beautiful but she is also very smart. You know if she has her heart set on it, it will happen. This is a book that shows you how loyal friendship is and how these four are alwa I received a copy of this book from NetGalley in place of an honest review. In the second book in this series is about Taddy Brill. I thought Lex's story was great but in this one you get more excitement. Taddy found out that if she wanted to make something of herself she will have to go out and model. She knows that she is beautiful but she is also very smart. You know if she has her heart set on it, it will happen. This is a book that shows you how loyal friendship is and how these four are always there for each other and protecting the one who needs it. You know when these four get together that something will happen. You just have to wait and watch the story and it will be there. It seems that they are all going with Taddy to show their support and all of a sudden they notice that the plane is coming apart. Taddy wakes up with debris underneath her and she doesn't know where her friends are but she isn't alone, it seems that a guy is also with her. If you want to know anymore then you will have to get a copy of this book and read it. ...more When the first chapter is titled Three Men and a Virgin and the book was written by Avery Aster, you know you are in for some fun, interesting times. Of course, I was not disappointed. This was a lot of fun, but it was also deeper than I expected. It wasn\u2019t all fun, sex and laughs. There was a lot of soul searching done in this book by Taddy and a lot of craziness that wasn\u2019t too funny\u2026hello plane crash. Of course everyone was on their most outrageous behavior. There are laugh out loud moments, e When the first chapter is titled Three Men and a Virgin and the book was written by Avery Aster, you know you are in for some fun, interesting times. Of course, I was not disappointed. This was a lot of fun, but it was also deeper than I expected. It wasn\u2019t all fun, sex and laughs. There was a lot of soul searching done in this book by Taddy and a lot of craziness that wasn\u2019t too funny\u2026hello plane crash. Of course everyone was on their most outrageous behavior. There are laugh out loud moments, even amongst the plan crash craziness and come on\u2026there are three very hot Frenchmen and Taddy and her friends. I loved the Candy Land mentions and the idea for the photo shoot. I love Taddy and I think even though this wasn\u2019t the outlandishness that I\u2019m used to from Avery, this was still an amazing chapter of the Manhattanites legendary legacy. Arc provided by the publisher via Netgalley for an honest review ...more Taddy is taking a shot at independence, on a flight with her three best friends and a trio of French hotties who are big names in the Fashion Photography world. Taddy is at odds with herself about her sexual frustrations and her attraction to the Frenchman. Taddy has no desire to make modelling a career but she knows that this job will allow her to study, even if it\u2019s only the first year. So one more job before she started college, how hard could it be? How about a tear in the roof of the plane, Taddy is taking a shot at independence, on a flight with her three best friends and a trio of French hotties who are big names in the Fashion Photography world. Taddy is at odds with herself about her sexual frustrations and her attraction to the Frenchman. Taddy has no desire to make modelling a career but she knows that this job will allow her to study, even if it\u2019s only the first year. So one more job before she started college, how hard could it be? How about a tear in the roof of the plane, or a crash landing in the ocean or Taddy being sucked through the roof and dumped in the middle of the Ocean. It is through this near death experience that life as Taddy knows it changes. Sassy, sexy characters, the ones we have grown to love in yet another drama filled story that could only happen in an Avery Aster book. Hot, Passionate and Naughty\u2026just the way I like it ...more Can these girls get a break?? They get themselves into the most unexpected situations. One would think this is so unlikely to happen, but now that I have read two in the series I can totally see it happening to these girls. In the midst of tragedy Aster still manages to make me laugh. I felt bad laughing at the characters, but still couldn't help myself. I love the story reading like you're just having an afternoon of girl talk. I also enjoyed that perspective of another character. The story is Can these girls get a break?? They get themselves into the most unexpected situations. One would think this is so unlikely to happen, but now that I have read two in the series I can totally see it happening to these girls. In the midst of tragedy Aster still manages to make me laugh. I felt bad laughing at the characters, but still couldn't help myself. I love the story reading like you're just having an afternoon of girl talk. I also enjoyed that perspective of another character. The story is centered around, Taddy, and her quest to obtain money for college tuition and of course losing her virginity. I have to admit that I am hooked!!! I need to find out what happens to these friends. I am also hoping to see one centered around everyone's favorite GBF. ...more If you are familiar with Avery Aster's The Manhattanites, you will definitely enjoy this novella. She uses off the wall scenarios to amuse and at the same time give you an insight into her characters' inner soul and demons. These three young women and their Gay Best Friend Blake, have gone through a lot together. One for all and all for one are not just words to them. They have even spent time in juvie together! In this novella, we mainly deal with Taddy's problems with dealing with her monetary If you are familiar with Avery Aster's The Manhattanites, you will definitely enjoy this novella. She uses off the wall scenarios to amuse and at the same time give you an insight into her characters' inner soul and demons. These three young women and their Gay Best Friend Blake, have gone through a lot together. One for all and all for one are not just words to them. They have even spent time in juvie together! In this novella, we mainly deal with Taddy's problems with dealing with her monetary problems and of course the fact that she is still a virgin. All I can say if this Eden existed anywhere, I would be the first one to book a stay! ...more This was a wicked fun, short, sexy read. This is Taddy Brill's story of how she loses her V-card in her younger years. Let me tell ya, you're gonna want to read how she loses her Lady V. It's not only awesome but, a plane crash & the ocean are involved. Where this is a short novella, you'll want to read Unscrupulous (The Manhattanites #1) first. That way you'll be familiar w/Taddy's friends & you'll have some background on Taddy. So, go forth & read ;) This is another quick and fun story chronicling the adventures of four best friends. In this story, Taddy's financial situation force her to become a model to earn her money for college. This assignment goes awry and Taddy finds herself growing up in more ways than one. I am eager to read about the other friends. I received a copy from Netgalley for an honest review. Yours Truly, Taddy is book no. 2 in the Undergrad Series. It is another HOT story in the series! This was another book where Avery has knocked my socks off! I felt like I was watching a movie instead of reading a book. From the very beginning, the book had me captivated. The scene with the airplane, OMG! (Don't want to include spoilers) Taddy Brill is a strong girl who has faced a lot in her short life. Her parents abandoned her and she was emancipated from a young age. She didn't have any money Yours Truly, Taddy is book no. 2 in the Undergrad Series. It is another HOT story in the series! This was another book where Avery has knocked my socks off! I felt like I was watching a movie instead of reading a book. From the very beginning, the book had me captivated. The scene with the airplane, OMG! (Don't want to include spoilers) Taddy Brill is a strong girl who has faced a lot in her short life. Her parents abandoned her and she was emancipated from a young age. She didn't have any money, but she had BFFs that looked out for her. She didn't let that get her down though. Oh no! Taddy pulled herself up and became self-reliant. Moving on to the good stuff! Leon, Gustave and Fabian... Who wouldn't want three Frenchmen fussing over them? A show of hands, who thinks Taddy is a lucky girl? It would not be wild and wackier without her BFFs along for the ride! They are truly a wonderful and psychotic support system to have around! A fun, wild, hilarious and sexy romp! Read this book, because it was... AMAZING!!! ...more I thought i loved avery aster through her manhannite series but this one takes the cake and the stuffing too. so funny and yet there is a serious twist to it. We find out what happened to Taddy in high school and how she got to become Princess Lollie. This band of friends is off to Taddy's photo shoot so she can pay for college without borrowing from her friends. The photographers are all gorgeous and all that Taddy wants. But they seem standoffish. that is until...da plane boss da plane. Taddy i I thought i loved avery aster through her manhannite series but this one takes the cake and the stuffing too. so funny and yet there is a serious twist to it. We find out what happened to Taddy in high school and how she got to become Princess Lollie. This band of friends is off to Taddy's photo shoot so she can pay for college without borrowing from her friends. The photographers are all gorgeous and all that Taddy wants. But they seem standoffish. that is until...da plane boss da plane. Taddy is in the water wondering about her friends and if she will survive and who is there with her Leon. Leon is kind and gentle with her and shh but she is his first girl. Seriously with how eh is with her you wouldn't know. and neither did she. They connect in ways they both didn't imagine and on the beach before her friends and his boyfriend found them holy hot cupcakies my friend. Once Taddy sees that Leon is taken and is in a relationship with one of the other guys she storms off and quits but not before she enjoys the island they land on. Eden-the forbidden fruit. Here all your fantasies can come true and Taddy's certainly does. Leon's boyfriend decides he wants a taste too and this suits Taddy but it also puts a crinkle in things. Leon and Fabian's jobs are put on the line and taddy is the only one to save them. At Eden though things come to play and her Princess Lollie side comes out and stays out. With the help of these photographers a candyland fit for all men's and her fantasies is created and her photoshoot has Princess Lollie emerge thanks to Leon who listened to her. She finds out how special her time with Leon is once they speak and when the photos come out they are in contact. Actually she stays in contact with them all once they are off the island. her threat in the email though is classic taddy. a fun and playful book that gives us insight into Taddy and how Princess lollie came about and where her desire to be princess lollie comes from. A great book that is wonderful for the beach especially since you can go in the water and cool off after some of the scenes. ...more As these two are part of the same series and I read one right after the other, I decided to include them in the same review post. Along with that, frankly I put them both together in the same post because I do not have a lot to say about them, and I do hate being negative about books. I will say that these books were not BAD; however, they just weren't my style or what I typically look for when reading a book that I really love. Like I have said before, the New Adult category is pretty new to me As these two are part of the same series and I read one right after the other, I decided to include them in the same review post. Along with that, frankly I put them both together in the same post because I do not have a lot to say about them, and I do hate being negative about books. I will say that these books were not BAD; however, they just weren't my style or what I typically look for when reading a book that I really love. Like I have said before, the New Adult category is pretty new to me. I have read some books in the genre that I have really loved, and I have read some that I did not like at all. Honestly, some of them contain some stuff that I would really just prefer not to read about, and that was the case with these books, unfortunately. Some people do not mind it at all, and for those readers I think that you will really enjoy these short books/novellas very much. I must say that the one major positive for me was the sense of humor that I found within the books. Clearly Aster does know how to write in a way to amuse her readers, and this did cause me to like the characters a bit more than I would have otherwise. Along with that, I really do love the cover of Love, Lex and I very much enjoy the titles of both of the books. I think that they both had great synopsis, and the plots were pretty good for the most part, but some things I could not overlook. Through Love Lex, I feel like the majority of the book was about her wanting to lose her virginity. That's all well and fine based on her age and what not, but she is so desperate for it that it became incredibly annoying. I am used to reading young adult books where sex is not the main theme or focus, and I am perfectly okay with that. I was already a bit put off by the first book that it was difficult for me to like Yours Truly, Taddy anymore as well. While I really did want to enjoy these books, it's just not something that happened for me. If you are a new adult fan and are enjoy the more mature content, I think many readers will enjoy these books more than I did. ...more Welcome to Eden! Another short, sexy and incredibly funny instalment in The Undergrad Years. Taddy has just learnt that after emancipating herself from her parents, they drained her trust, leaving her completely broke with no way of paying for her college tuition. Thankfully, Taddy has the love and support of her BFF's mother, Birdie who lands her a modelling gig where the four-some board a plane with three of Europes hottest men, destination, Martinique. The four-some haven't had much luck, and th Welcome to Eden! Another short, sexy and incredibly funny instalment in The Undergrad Years. Taddy has just learnt that after emancipating herself from her parents, they drained her trust, leaving her completely broke with no way of paying for her college tuition. Thankfully, Taddy has the love and support of her BFF's mother, Birdie who lands her a modelling gig where the four-some board a plane with three of Europes hottest men, destination, Martinique. The four-some haven't had much luck, and that doesn't change here when their plan crashes, flinging Taddy into the ocean without her friends. But she wasn't alone. Leon, one of the hunky men from the flight sat with her on a piece of the plane. Nothing could have prepared Taddy for the events that come after this. Fearing she'd never make it out of the ocean alive, Taddy throws her trust, hope , and the \"Lady V\" to Leon, in hopes they will reach Eden and their friends again. As always, Avery steams up the pages with her hot sex scenes, fresh in your face characters and endless snort-inducing giggles. For more reviews, news and giveaways, check out Saucy Reviews on Kinky Korner at; Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest | Instagram ...more Thank you to NetGalley for providing me with an advance copy in exchange for an honest review I will be honest with you, I didn't know if I would like this book, Manhattan socialites are not usually high on my reading lists but having read Lauren Hawkeye's book in the Eden series last week I thought I would give this a try when it became available for review. The Eden series is an extremely hot collection of books centered upon an island in the Bermuda Triangle owner by a reclusive gazillionaire. Thank you to NetGalley for providing me with an advance copy in exchange for an honest review I will be honest with you, I didn't know if I would like this book, Manhattan socialites are not usually high on my reading lists but having read Lauren Hawkeye's book in the Eden series last week I thought I would give this a try when it became available for review. The Eden series is an extremely hot collection of books centered upon an island in the Bermuda Triangle owner by a reclusive gazillionaire. Now this story is not for you if you cannot stand slightly self obsessed 18 year olds and their way of talking, overlooking that it is actually a good if slightly bonkers read! Taddy Brillford was abandoned at her exclusive school by her terrible parents when she was 13, thankfully due to the support of her amazing friends - Lex, Blake and Vive she has managed to keep going but now at the age of 18 she has to make some cash to pay for her first term at university but she is proud and refuses to accept her friends offer of money to pay for it, she does however accept an offer to do some couture modelling for an amazing French photographer. However en route to the modelling shoot, the plane they are all travelling in - Taddy and her friends plus the photographer and his two assistants crashes in the water near the island of Eden, is this the end for our glamourous guys and girls? No! What happens next is Taddy waking up miles away from her friends in the middle of the ocean with one of the hunky French guys with no idea when anyone is, she makes her way through the \"shark\" infested waters with her escort to the nearest land which is the island and whilst on the way she manages to lose her virginity to her Frenchman who once she hits land discovers has a boyfriend and that's when things start to heat up even more. It is a fun light raunchy read and is a perfect summer read! Awarded 4 out of 5 ...more<---C>Avery Aster</---C>", "Title": "Yours Truly, Taddy"},
