{"Comments": "I wrote a book that, not only did I personally want to read, but also something I hoped others could relate to.<---F> Hope you like it! xoxo M</---F>.P. You can read this review and more on my blog: I received this book for free from Xpresso Book Tours in exchange for an honest review. This does not affect my opinion of the book or the content of my review. Wow! Let me get one thing straight, I enjoy Dystopian Romance novels. The first one that I ever read was The Hunger Games, and I've been hooked on the genre ever since. But that's probably why I always find myself comparing every Dystopian novel that I read to the one that started it all You can read this review and more on my blog: I received this book for free from Xpresso Book Tours in exchange for an honest review. This does not affect my opinion of the book or the content of my review. Wow! Let me get one thing straight, I enjoy Dystopian Romance novels. The first one that I ever read was The Hunger Games, and I've been hooked on the genre ever since. But that's probably why I always find myself comparing every Dystopian novel that I read to the one that started it all for me.\u00a0Sometimes, that can keep me from really getting\u00a0into the story because every time I find and obvious similarity, I\u00a0become\u00a0bored. Thankfully that didn't happen this time!\u00a0The only thing that this book has in common with The Hunger Games\u00a0is the fact that the story is told from the point of view of a teenage girl who lives in a dystopian society. That's it! Every other element of this book felt new and fresh! Our\u00a0story starts off with four simple words: \"<---C>Nazirah Nation</---C> is dead\" Thousands of years ago a group called the Medis\u00a0came into power, and they decided that all of the world's problems could be\u00a0resolved by no longer allowing people of different races, classes, religions, and cultures to coexist.\u00a0So the Medis divided them all into separate territories. Those who chose to enter into a relationship with someone from a different territory were cast from their homes and forced to live in poverty for the\u00a0rest of their lives Nazirah\u00a0Nation has lost\u00a0 almost everything simply because she had both the fortune and misfortune of being the product of an intermix relationship.\u00a0Gabirel\u00a0the Chancellor of the Medis\u00a0has Nazirah's\u00a0parents killed, and she is sent to live on a rebel base and\u00a0forced to work alongside Adamek, Gabirel's son and the man who murdered her parents. Nazirah\u00a0reluctantly\u00a0becomes the\u00a0face of\u00a0the uprising.\u00a0\u00a0Her\u00a0willingness\u00a0\u00a0to\u00a0work with\u00a0Adamek so they could accomplish their shared goal of removing his father from power was admirable. She got a reputation as a stuck up princess that I'm not sure she deserved. It's true that she wasn't the only one who had lost people that she loved, but she wasn't blind to the pain of others; \u00a0she was drowning in grief. Sure she had her best friend Cato, but he was almost the only person in her life who ever gave her any real sympathy and compassion. Adamek, was very different from the leading man I've read before. He wasn't \u00a0the typical \"bad boy\", and he wasn't misunderstood or nicer than he let on. He was a murderer and there was no sugar-coating\u00a0that fact. From the beginning it was clear that he was a man who had done some awful things,<---M> and decided</---M>, for his own reasons, to stop. I never once thought he felt justified in his past actions, but he confused me. I kept waiting for him to express the remorse and shame that he felt because of all the lives that he had taken including Nazirah's\u00a0parents, but it took him a while. I knew he was in pain: He just internalized everything and suffered his shame in silence. On the outside he was a cocky jerk who kept pushing Nazirah's buttons. He kept her going by provoking her over and over again, but I knew why he did it so I never hated him. The romantic elements of Nazirah\u00a0and Adamek's relationship would have been weird if they weren't so well suited for each other. There was a need and attraction they had for each other that went so deep; their lives would have been unbearable if they didn't have each other to fight and flirt with. \u00a0It was as though the fact that he had taken her parent's life forged a bond between them. It's hard to explain, but the author pulled it off. They don't fall in love at first sight, and I'm still not sure when they stopped hating each other. All I know is that they had a connection that manifested itself in all sorts of entertaining and beautiful ways from day one. Some of the moments that they shared were romantic, some were funny, others were downright violent, but no one\u00a0else could have handled them the way that they handled each other. At its heart, <+++>Intermix Nation</+++> is not just a Dystopian Romance; It's a study on forgiveness, prejudice,and acceptance redemption. It ask the hard questions what you would be willing to do to make your life count for something, and how much could you forgive. Both Nazirah\u00a0and Adamek\u00a0have to fight some strong internal battles while trying to end the war that is raging around them. They hate themselves, they hate each other, and they hate the world; but the one question that constantly arises throughout the book is whether or not they can overcome their hatred and pain long enough to fight for their right to live and live happily. Should Nazirah\u00a0forgive Adamek\u00a0for killing her parents just because he understands her better than anyone else? Can Adamek forgive himself for all the lives he's destroyed? If they love each other, would that be wrong or do they deserve to have some happiness in a world where it can so seldom be found? You'll just have to read the book if you want to know the answers. :) .The fact that this was a Dystopian stand alone (<---B>not apart of a series of novels</---B>)\u00a0was one of the things that first attracted me to this book, that's very rare. Now that I'm finished, I'm sad that I won't be able to continue with the story and how its characters grow. The ending was satisfying, but author could write another story if she really wanted to. [crosses fingers] If she doesn't, then I'll just have to make it a point to read this again, and that's something that I rarely do. I would recommend this book to fans of dystopian novels, but get ready to read something that you've never read before! This book is suitable for ages 16 and up because of language, some minor violence, and one slightly detailed sex scene. ...more 4.5 Stars! That was, in a word, intense. I really had no expectations going into <+++>Intermix Nation</+++>. It\u2019s New Adult and Dystopian so I expected to like it, but I didn\u2019t anticipate loving it as much as I did! It got off to a rocky start though. It\u2019s written in third person present tense, which is always annoying to read, but once I got into Nazirah\u2019s story, I didn\u2019t even notice anymore. There\u2019s also huge info-dumps at the beginning. World building is extremely important, especially in Dystopian novel 4.5 Stars! That was, in a word, intense. I really had no expectations going into Intermix Nation. It\u2019s New Adult and Dystopian so I expected to like it, but I didn\u2019t anticipate loving it as much as I did! It got off to a rocky start though. It\u2019s written in third person present tense, which is always annoying to read, but once I got into Nazirah\u2019s story, I didn\u2019t even notice anymore. There\u2019s also huge info-dumps at the beginning. World building is extremely important, especially in Dystopian novels, but it was too much all at once. The pacing was extremely slow and bogged down by information, but once you get past those first few chapters, Intermix Nation is amazing! First, let\u2019s the discuss the bad stuff. The info-dumping is pretty heavy in the opening chapters. It\u2019s mostly a lot of names and places, and I found it confusing. A lot of city and territory names are used, but without context. I have no clue where any of these places are suppose to be. The book description says North America, but honestly, it sounded most like Eurasia to me. Intermix Nation is set several hundred years into the future, so this is not the world we know at all. I just would have like more specific references to what these places use to be. That\u2019s the only negative thing I can think to say about this book. And honestly, it wasn\u2019t a huge deal once the actual story picked up. Intermix Nation follows eighteen-year-old Nazirah Nation, born of parents of different races, and thus dubbed an outcast. Biracial, or intermix, people are not accepted in this new world and mainly live in poverty in any area that will allow them. Nazirah was lucky that her parents weren\u2019t too poor and her mother was a teacher so she grew up educated, not like a lot of others. Four months ago, both of her parents were murdered for being rebels, and now Nazirah is in training to join the upcoming war. However, her first mission sends her to a prison offering amnesty to the man who shot her parents \u2014 Adamek\u2013 in exchange for aid in the war. Needless to say, Nazirah is not happy about this. It gets worse when her brother, who happens to be their commander, declares her official mission to be the face of the rebellion. She\u2019s to travel around with Adamek and show how she\u2019s forgiven him and things can get better if others only join in their battle. Nazirah is not a good actress, so a rumor is started that they\u2019re lovers. News travels fast and people are too eager to believe gossip, and take Nazirah\u2019s silence as confirmation. Don\u2019t worry, there is no insta-love here! Nazirah hates Adamek with every fiber of her being, and he can\u2019t really stand her \u201cholier than thou\u201d attitude. They\u2019re constantly at odds, but Adamek is actually the only person who was able to crack Nazirah\u2019s emotional armor. She keeps everyone out so that she can\u2019t be hurt again. She also has trouble with the battle aspect of the war due to her guilt over not being there when her parents are murdered. Adamek pushes all of her buttons, and while she is thankful for that, she still wants to see him dead\u2026at her own hand. I loved seeing their relationship develop. It goes from complete loathing to tolerance, and then to something else entirely that winds up in a super steamy scene near the end. There\u2019s still no declarations of undying love though, thank goodness. It\u2019s just two people learning how to forgive themselves, allow themselves to be happy, and move on with life. While the plot of Intermix Nation is very war focused, we actually don\u2019t see much of the physical aspect of war. We more get the strategic side as Nazirah and Adamek are on the campaign. That\u2019s not to say that there is no action, because there is. There are plenty of attempts on Nazirah\u2019s life from those in charge who want to keep the intermix beaten down. Nazirah and Adamek also fight with each other several times. The plot does drag in some places, and the book felt a lot longer than it is, but I was still interested the entire time. I never had a clue where the story was going, and I found myself super nervous close to the end. Intermix Nation actually gets 4.5 stars from me. Only losing half of a star because I had a difficult time getting into it. I know self-published books aren\u2019t always looked at in the most positive light, especially when it\u2019s a debut, but honestly, you wouldn\u2019t even know this was self-published debut novel if you weren\u2019t told. It is simply awesome! The story is interesting, engaging, exciting, heartbreaking, sexy, frustrating, and disturbing at times. It\u2019s almost everything I want out of a book. I highly recommend Intermix Nation to everyone, especially those who enjoy a good war focused Dystopian, with a little bit of sexy times! Read more of my reviews at Pinkindle Reads & Reviews . ...more I didn't know what I was going to get with this book but it was certainly a pleasant surprise. Great premise, excellent characters and for once a dystopian standalone! Expect possible spoilers: Intermix Nation is set against the dystopian world of Renatus, the fallen nation of North America. In this world, people of mixed races are second class citizens, often abused and mistreated. The book starts a few months after eighteen-year-old Nazirah Nation's parents got murdered (for daring to stand up f I didn't know what I was going to get with this book but it was certainly a pleasant surprise. Great premise, excellent characters and for once a dystopian standalone! Expect possible spoilers: Intermix Nation is set against the dystopian world of Renatus, the fallen nation of North America. In this world, people of mixed races are second class citizens, often abused and mistreated. The book starts a few months after eighteen-year-old Nazirah Nation's parents got murdered (for daring to stand up for intermix rights) by Adamek Morganen, brutal assassin and son of the powerful Chancellor of their country. Now she is among the midst of the Rebel army fighting against the rights of the intermix led by her big brother. Things take a turn for the worst when her brother made an Amnesty pact, an agreement that pardons certain Renatus citizens in exchange for important information that will be beneficial to the rebellion, with their parents murderer. We meet Nazirah at a low point in her life. She is depressed and misunderstood, seen as ungrateful by people around her because of her lack of interest to fight for the cause. I can understand her struggle though, her grief and guilt is causing her to punish herself...hating herself for not being there to defend her parents when they were murdered. I couldn't believe that her brother can actually welcome his parents murderer in the fold...I don't think I can ever do something like that, no matter how beneficial it is for the rebellion. Adamek was indeed chilling when Nazirah first met him, I was so sure that he was going to be the main antagonist of the story. I was sure that he's an evil spy sent to destroy the rebellion from inside. The relationship between Adamek and Nazirah is indeed turbulent but we soon realize that there's an underlying attraction between these two, one that they violently ignore. I love how subtle their romance develop because I don't think it can be done any other way. Thinking of them as a couple was just so impossible at the beginning...who the hell would fall for their parents murderer?? As I read further though and got to know both characters, I crossed that line of black and white and empathize with their struggles and demons. The chemistry was so strong that by the time it was obvious that there's something going on between the two, I was actually rooting for them to get together. This is more than a dystopian romance though and the struggles of the intermix and their supporters is felt throughout the book. In the midst of a revolution, we meet different characters from the intermix and other races who both either support or want to destroy the rebel cause. The book is also evenly paced in a way that important scenes are emotional and exciting. My favorite character has got to me Adamek and I wish we were given the chance to get inside his head and see certain events from his eyes. I love how his character evolved from someone who is chilling and sinister to the core of man seeking forgiveness for what he has done. It seem impossible at first but he totally won me over when I got to know his true character. This is a beautiful and passionate book that deals with a lot of social issues. The book is character driven and they are not always likable but they are believable in their emotions. The romance is definitely unusual but I found the subtlety and the slow development of the romance beautiful. A great standalone! A copy was provided by the author in exchange for an honest review ...more Well, I really wasn't prepared for that emotional rollercoaster! As soon as I read the synopsis, I knew Intermix Nation was a book I had to read. As someone who is mixed heritage, I know what it's like to be of two different ethnicities but feel that, at times, I belong to neither. In Attardo's debut, North America has been divided into a land known as Renatus. The divides have been put in place to separate races, forbidding them from mixing \u2013 but love can conquer boundaries, and the children of Well, I really wasn't prepared for that emotional rollercoaster! As soon as I read the synopsis, I knew Intermix Nation was a book I had to read. As someone who is mixed heritage, I know what it's like to be of two different ethnicities but feel that, at times, I belong to neither. In Attardo's debut, North America has been divided into a land known as Renatus. The divides have been put in place to separate races, forbidding them from mixing \u2013 but love can conquer boundaries, and the children of two races are born. They are known as intermix, and are cast out by everyone but their own. Nazirah is an intermix, but not just anyone \u2013 she is the face of the rebellion, a beacon of hope for the citizens of Renatus. But Irri has her own past, and if she\u2019s going to win over the nation, she\u2019s going to have to face her biggest enemy yet: Adamek Morgen, murderer of her parents. I can't believe how well-written this was, especially for a debut novel. I'm not suggesting that debut authors are bad, but usually since it's their first book, they're still trying to find their own individual style. Attardo has her style set. Admittedly I at first found it strange to read in the person she used, but as I became more engrossed in the story, I grew used to it. Aside from that, the language, the plot, the build up...it was the perfect concoction for a story. Nazirah Nation has to be one of my favourite protagonists of all time. I know I can go on a bit about how I love my brave heroines, but I think she's one of the strongest I've ever come across. Nazirah is put through a lot of trials, yet she is as hard as nails the entire time. She is a true face of a rebellion, and because of that she made the diegesis, the plot, the idea believable. Adamek Morgen is my latest addiction. When we were first introduced to him, I just thought he'd be the counterpart to Nazirah, an enemy to reinforce the idea that she is the good guy. However, halfway through and I realised she created him to be so much more than that. Although the book centers around the issue of racism, it also talks about forgiveness. How can you forgive someone who has wronged you so terribly? He is a counterpart, that's for sure, but he's not necessarily just the enemy. Although we don't find as much out about his past as I would have liked, his character holds a depth so vast that you can't help but feel that he's real. This may seem strange, but one thing I really loved about Intermix Nation was how Attardo managed to get this entire story into just one book. A lot of dystopians nowadays are split into a trilogy, a lot of which tend to fall short towards the end. Although I do like it when books are a series, I was glad she just got to the point with the story and didn't unnecessarily drag it out, making it intense, dynamic and dramatic. I must admit, I really am impressed with Attardo. Debut novels rarely come as good as this, especially New Adult books. This genre has me skeptical, but this book just had the right amount of snarky language, witty characters and smoky sex scenes to be perfect. I recommend this book 100%, it's one of the best indies I've read yet. ...more Review, blog tour & giveaway forthcoming on http://a-reader-lives-a-thousand-live... I received a copy of Intermix Nation in exchange for my honest review as a part of this blog tour. Nazirah is a second class citizen, born of parents of different races, and not even allowed to attend school. Except for the fact that her parents are rebels, and want to improve their daughter's standing in the world. One night, after she turns 18, Nazirah comes home to discover that her parents have been assass Review, blog tour & giveaway forthcoming on http://a-reader-lives-a-thousand-live... I received a copy of Intermix Nation in exchange for my honest review as a part of this blog tour. Nazirah is a second class citizen, born of parents of different races, and not even allowed to attend school. Except for the fact that her parents are rebels, and want to improve their daughter's standing in the world. One night, after she turns 18, Nazirah comes home to discover that her parents have been assassinated. Her brother then moves her to the rebel compound, along with her best friend, Cato, where she learns about the rebellion and the part she is expected to play. Her whole outlook on the rebellion and the world changes when she meets Adamek, the man that killed her parents, and realises that people aren't always what they seem. Finally, a dystopian book that isn't young adult! I know that they do exist, but they tend to be the older dystopias such as 1984, Brave New World and A Handmaid's Tale (all three of which I have read for the record!) But now seems to be the time of the young adult dystopia, which is all well and good, but that misses out some of the issues that affect all human beings. I will admit that when I started this book I got a bit skeptical, not because of the storyline, but because of the writing style. At first it seemed to me that the style was a little bit clunky, though by the end of the story I had stopped noticing it at all, and that could be because I got used to it, or it could be because it genuinely got better. I wouldn't like to say which it was, but the story captivated me so much that this is a book I would more than happily ignore the style to read! As you may know by now, I love characterisation, it is one of my favourite parts of reading, and this book did not disappoint on that front! The two main characters, Nazirah and Adamek, both grew as characters and ceased to be one dimensional within a few lines of their introduction. There were complicated feelings, complicated motives and complicated characters, all of which I loved! The other thing I particularly liked was that the main theme of Intermix Nation seemed to be about the fact that people aren't all black and white, and once again, this is one of my favourite themes to read about, particularly as the people that weren't all black and white were often those who you would put in the 'good guys' category. Intermix Nation also managed to surprise me at some points, which is again, something that very few books manage to do! I would definitely say read this one! Once I got used to the writing style I found it extremely enjoyable and an engaging story line and characters. Also, don't you just love the cover!!! ...more I received this book for a honest review and as a part of the tour! Thanks! :) Original post on http://nervidetoamna.blogspot.ro/ I should say that I was intrigued by the book from the start: the cover is intrguing, the title, and the discription. I like to read dystopies, but even more I like stand-alones, and good books. And when this three are in one book I just can't resist. So, I had expectations, not so many but they were, I wanted to like the much as much as I like it at first sight, and I I received this book for a honest review and as a part of the tour! Thanks! :) Original post on http://nervidetoamna.blogspot.ro/ I should say that I was intrigued by the book from the start: the cover is intrguing, the title, and the discription. I like to read dystopies, but even more I like stand-alones, and good books. And when this three are in one book I just can't resist. So, I had expectations, not so many but they were, I wanted to like the much as much as I like it at first sight, and I was't dissapointed. This is a book that have everything in it: action, a interesting world, good shaped characters, suspence, romance, no love triangle, and is a stand-alone. For me all this atributes means a lot and they were acomplished so well, that when it ended I was sad, cause I wanted more. So, you need to read it, I want to hear from more people about this book, cause in my opinion it worth it. If you read my blog or my reviews then you know that I won't talk about what happens in the book, so no spoilers. You'll find out what happens if you read the book, alone. But you need to know that is a such a good book, I read it in one day, or should I say few hours, I couldn't let it down until I finished it. The story is so intriguing that everytime I had questions and questions and I wanted to know about the world, and the characters, and their lives, and everything. The world is bad, but in the same time the author make such a good job describing it, and individualizing each land or teritory. I felt that it was like a trilogy in one book, because it was so complex and it happend so many things that I even don't know which to start. About the characters, m, is hard to pick who I liked but I think my three favorite characters are Nazirah, Niko and Adamek. Nazirah is like a mix, because she's nice but if you upset her she punch you in the face, she's quiet but she talks a lot when she's angry, she's a fighter but she's vulnerable, and so on. I really liked her evolution through the book and how she changed and learned that things aren't just white and black, but grey too. About Niko I won't say too much, but even he's colder with his sister he protects her and help her and he's a good leader. Adamek...m, like Nazirah he's complicated but it intrigued me from the start and I need to say that he is a lot. A lot that you'll know if you read the book, and like that you'll find out that he's good or bad? So, guys, if you like action, dystopia, interesting worlds, powerful characters, originality, stand-alones, then read this book. From me it worths a lot and I can put it beside other books or even series from the same genre, cause is amazing. Read it! ...more Galley received for review in blog tour. Loved it. I want more! Is this the first in a series? Full review: Nazirah Nation is a seventeen-year-old girl living in Renatus, a new nation born from the ashes of North America. The authoritarian government forbids interracial marriages, considering racial mixes the cause of the epidemics spreading in the continet. Nazirah is a pariah, as her parents were from two different races, yet they got married anyway. They also were rebels, and were killed by a go Galley received for review in blog tour. Loved it. I want more! Is this the first in a series? Full review: Nazirah Nation is a seventeen-year-old girl living in Renatus, a new nation born from the ashes of North America. The authoritarian government forbids interracial marriages, considering racial mixes the cause of the epidemics spreading in the continet. Nazirah is a pariah, as her parents were from two different races, yet they got married anyway. They also were rebels, and were killed by a government agent. Now Nazirah lives in the rebels headquarters with her best friend Cato; her elder brother Nicholas is a general and in charge of the rebel unit. Nazirah doesn't want to be in the compund and misses her parents terribly. She doesn't get along with her brother very much. One day, he asks her to go on a mission for him; she is to go and find a criminal and grant him amnesty, so that he can join the rebels and fight with them. The criminal is Adamek Morgen, the killer who murdered Nazirah's parents. She's determined to get revenge. I loved this dystopian novel. It was a rollercoaster of feelings, with action, romance, and a lot of sexual tension in it. Yes, the tension between Nazirah and Adamek was killing me. I would like this to be a series (I' love to read more about Nazirah, Adamek, and Renatus), but it is apparently a stand-alone. Which shows you that you can write a good story in a self-contained novel, if you want; even a story of uprising and rebellion to an unjust government. Adamek is a fascinating character. He has killed a huge number of people following his father's orders. He's damaged. When they first meet, he warns Nazirah to remember that he's a murderer and always will be. Yet he sounds strangely good to me, even at the beginning when he was sypposedly evil. The attraction and tension between him and Nazirah rollef off in waves. I was dying for them to act on it. When it finally happened I was cheering. The dystopian world depicted in Intermiz Nation is strangely absurd - it sounds completely useless to try and segregate races, considering that no race can be considered \"pure\", and that the concept of race has no scientific value anyway. Moreover, it's even crazier to be thinking that keeping races divided could be a way to ensure health and prevent illness. The rebel uprising against a government that discriminates intermixes and treats them like dirt is fair and just. I'd totally recommend this book, just not to younger teens - I'd consider this in the \"new adult\" range for mentions of sex and violence. ...more This book was brilliant. It was well written and also had well-rounded characters. The main protagonist--Nazirah, was also perfect for her role in here. She was strong and I admired her throughout the book. Especially at the end, when she was ready to give up her life for the sake of her people. And Adamek, urghhh. It was blatantly obvious that they were going to end together, despite their nemesis state at the beginning and the fact that he killed Nazirah's parents. But I loved him, really. But This book was brilliant. It was well written and also had well-rounded characters. The main protagonist--Nazirah, was also perfect for her role in here. She was strong and I admired her throughout the book. Especially at the end, when she was ready to give up her life for the sake of her people. And Adamek, urghhh. It was blatantly obvious that they were going to end together, despite their nemesis state at the beginning and the fact that he killed Nazirah's parents. But I loved him, really. But I felt sorry for Cato too. This book reminded me of a lot of books, such as The Hunger Games and Legend, so the fact that I can compare it to two of my well loved series means that I thought that Intermix Nation is an imposing book. It may have a few flaws here and there, but the rest of the story made up for it. I literally finished it in just one sitting--I couldn't find it in me to keep away. It's a shame that it isn't well known yet and that it has no paperback version, because I would've bought it in a heartbeat. And I'm also impressed by the fact that this is the author's debut novel and that it's self published. Keep it up! ...more WHERE HAS THIS BOOK BEEN ALL MY LIFE? I was eager to read it after I read all the awesome reviews, but I was not expecting it to be this AMAZINGLY awesome. The characters in this story are INCREDIBLY well-written, especially the two heroes. READ THIS IMMEDIATELY. I really enjoyed this comming of age story set in a dystopian future. * See more at: http://petrichorabookblog.tumblr.com ** I received a copy of this book from the publisher in exchange for an honest opinion. *** Recensione in Italiano pi\u00f9 sotto Review Nazirah Nation is dead. So begins this novel and I could not certainly find better words. The girl who was once, a young and carefree girl with a difficult life, but still happy, no longer exists. It\u2019s been almost four months since she found the lifeless bodies of her parents, but the picture is still vivid in her mem * See more at: http://petrichorabookblog.tumblr.com ** I received a copy of this book from the publisher in exchange for an honest opinion. *** Recensione in Italiano pi\u00f9 sotto Review Nazirah Nation is dead. So begins this novel and I could not certainly find better words. The girl who was once, a young and carefree girl with a difficult life, but still happy, no longer exists. It\u2019s been almost four months since she found the lifeless bodies of her parents, but the picture is still vivid in her memory as if it happened just moments before. And ever since then her life has changed dramatically, now she lives in the Rebel Compound along with other rebels who want to fight against the despotic power of Medis, the inhabitants of the capital city. Her brother Nikolaus is the leader of the rebels, and she was trained to be in the future a leader like him, but she does not want to, that\u2019s a life that she has noy chosen and is unable to fight for change it, or rather, does not have nearly the forces to do so. Being a intermix, the daughter of two persons of the different \u201craces\u201d, has made her a pariah and even an orphan without a home. And although there is her best friend next to her, the eridian Cato, can not help but be a disappointment for everyone. All this will change quickly when his brother assigns her a special mission: to go to negotiate with a prisoner to obtain information against the government. And he is not like any other prisoner, no, he\u2019s Adamek Morgen, the one who killed her parents and the son of the Chancellor of the entire country. I do not know where to start, I loved all the characters, even those who appear to be more obnoxious, and right now I loved Adamek, one that should be considered the villain of the story, but\u2026 Well, you will find out! The relationship between Adamek and Nazirah is addictive, a constant struggle between duty and pleasure, forgiveness and revenge. Nazirah hates him, but the more she knows him, the more she realizes not be the only one to have suffered, to hide deep scars in the skin. And if those of Nazirah are invisible scars, those of Adamek are there, in front of everyone\u2019s eyes. I have asked myself many times, while reading, how I would react in place of Nazirah, and, above all, as a person if I would be able to forgive myself and the others. They both need a second chance, but is a long road ahead of them to get there. The world in which they live is that of Renatus, a new nation was born from the ashes of the previous one, almost one hundred years before, after the end of the Final War. However, what has brought to the almost end of humanity according to the survivors? Multiculturalism, the difference in beliefs and cultures, and the Medis, those who actually govern, eliminated it, or almost. With a capital city and four nations, each \u201crace\u201d has a place to live and it is forbidden to mix together, marry with people of other \u201craces\u201d, otherwise contaminate the \u201cpure\u201d of the race. But Nazirah is not the only exception, despite the prohibitions, there are many intermix (also on the increase) and, although they are excluded from real life, unable to do anything, they will soon find their voice. Every detail, every facet of the various countries and various city is unique and full of meaning. I love books very detailed and this is certainly one of those I most loved. \u201cIntermix Nation\u201d is a book that I highly recommend, well written, with characters and themes that make you think and remain in your hearts. This is a stand-alone but I hope it turns into a series or that there is a sequel that tells more about these characters and their lives. Recensione in italiano Nazirah Nation \u00e8 morta. Cos\u00ec inizia questo romanzo e non potrei di certo trovare parole migliori. La ragazza che una volta era, una giovane spensierata con una vita difficile, ma comunque felice, non esiste pi\u00f9. Sono passati gi\u00e0 quattro mesi da quando ha trovato i corpi dei suoi genitori esanimi, tuttavia l\u2019immagine \u00e8 ancora viva nella sua memoria come se fosse successo pochi attimi prima. E da allora anche la sua vita \u00e8 cambiata drasticamente, ora vive nel Rebel Compound insieme ad altri ribelli che vogliono lottare contro il potere dispotico dei Medis, gli abitanti della capitale centrale. Il fratello Nikolaus \u00e8 il capo dei ribelli e, anche lei, \u00e8 stata addestrata per esserlo in futuro, eppure non vuole, quella \u00e8 una vita che non ha scelto e non \u00e8 in grado di lottare per cambiarla, o meglio, non ha quasi le forze per farlo. Essere una intermix, la figlia di due persone di \u201crazze\u201d diverse, l\u2019ha resa una emarginata e anche un\u2019orfana senza casa. E sebbene accanto a lei ci sia il suo migliore amico di sempre, l\u2019eridiano Cato, non pu\u00f2 fare altro che essere un disappunto per tutti. Tutto questo cambier\u00e0 rapidamente quando il fratello le assegna una missione speciale: andare a negoziare con un detenuto per ottenere informazioni utili contro il governo. E non si tratter\u00e0 di un detenuto qualsiasi, no, lui \u00e8 Adamek Morgen, colui che ha ucciso i suoi genitori e il figlio del Chancellor dell\u2019intero paese. Non so proprio da dove partire, ho adorato tutti i personaggi, anche quelli che appaiono pi\u00f9 antipatici, e sin da subito ho adorato Adamek, quello che dovrebbe essere considerato il cattivo della storia, ma\u2026 Beh lo scoprirete! Il rapporto tra Adamek e Nazirah \u00e8 coinvolgente, una continua lotta tra il dovere e il piacere, il perdono e la vendetta. Nazirah lo odia, ma pi\u00f9 lo conosce, pi\u00f9 capisce di non essere l\u2019unica ad aver sofferto, a nascondere profonde cicatrici nella pelle. E se quelle di Nazirah sono cicatrici invisibili, quelle di Adamek sono l\u00ec, davanti agli occhi di tutti. Mi sono chiesta molte volte, durante la lettura, come avrei reagito al posto di Nazirah, ma soprattutto quanto una persona fosse in grado di perdonare se stessa e anche gli altri. Hanno entrambi bisogno di una seconda opportunit\u00e0, eppure la strada \u00e8 lunga davanti a loro per arrivarci. Il mondo in cui vivono \u00e8 quello di Renatus, una nuova nazione nata dalle ceneri delle precedenti quasi cento anni prima, dopo la fine della Guerra Finale. Cosa ha portato, per\u00f2, quasi alla fine dell\u2019umanit\u00e0 secondo i sopravvissuti? Il multiculturalismo, la differenza di credi e culture, che i Medis, coloro che di fatto governano, hanno eliminato o quasi. Con una capitale e quattro nazioni, ogni \u201crazza\u201d ha un luogo in cui vivere ed \u00e8 vietato mescolarsi, unirsi con persone di altre \u201crazze\u201d, sporcare il sangue altrimenti puro. Ma Nazirah non \u00e8 l\u2019unica eccezione, nonostante i divieti gli intermix sono molti e anche in aumento e, sebbene siano esclusi dalla vita vera, impossibilitati a fare qualsiasi cosa, presto troveranno la loro voce. Ogni dettaglio, ogni sfaccettatura dei vari paesi e delle varie citt\u00e0 \u00e8 unico e denso di significato. Adoro i libri molto dettagliati e questo \u00e8 sicuramente tra quelli che pi\u00f9 ho amato. \"Intermix Nation\" \u00e8 un libro che consiglio vivamente, ben scritto, con personaggi e tematiche che fanno riflettere e rimangono nel cuore. Si tratta di uno stand-alone ma spero che si trasformi in una serie o che ci sia un seguito che racconti di pi\u00f9 su questi personaggi e le loro vicissitudini. ...more Nazirah Nation is an intermix, a child born from different races. Her family was never lacking, even if she is discriminated by others and life isn't easy for her and her family. Riva & Kashimir, her parents, try to give her and her brother, Niko, as much love & knowledge as they could give. They managed live peacefully in a house near the sea. However, At an age of 18, Nazirah's perfect life crumbled, leaving her an orphan. Nazirah locked up every emotion she has and vowed to get her re Nazirah Nation is an intermix, a child born from different races. Her family was never lacking, even if she is discriminated by others and life isn't easy for her and her family. Riva & Kashimir, her parents, try to give her and her brother, Niko, as much love & knowledge as they could give. They managed live peacefully in a house near the sea. However, At an age of 18, Nazirah's perfect life crumbled, leaving her an orphan. Nazirah locked up every emotion she has and vowed to get her revenge on the person who murdered her parents, Adamek Morgen. She became part of the rebellion that is lead by her brother but she is reluctant to join it, still hoping for a peaceful life with his brother. However, her circumstances won't give her that luxury. They need to go to the source of all their pain, the government. Bringing down the very source may be the solution for their awful circumstances. Nazirah needs to stop thinking about herself and tries to do what's best for everybody, even if she needs to work with her parents' murderer. Through her journey, Nazirah understands more about herself, bit by bit. However, she will need to remove brick by brick the wall she placed around herself. I was quite excited to read this book because it's my first book tour ever so when I managed to finish the series that I was reading, I immediately jumped into this one. Though, I had a bit of problem in the first few pages of the book, I really enjoyed it. I think a big part of that is because of my continuous reading of Urban Fantasy. I had to somehow rewire my brain to pick-up and read Young Adult again. There were a few bumps in the road which prolonged my reading but I was able to finish it, which is a totally good thing. When I was 1/4 into the book, I got bummed out. I was already foreseeing the outcome of the book which what most YA Dystopian books give you, the girl will win the revolution & end-up with the guy, despite their differences. Also, I was mildly irritated to see some signs of Hunger Games and Divergent in the book. I thought this is one of those books that try to write something because some author managed to make big names for themselves, like the booming of Hunger Games & Twilight, but I was so wrong. This book isn't anything like Hunger Games or Divergent. Ya, there are some slight similarities because they are in the same genre but this book managed to give more. What I love about this book is how it's more relatable in our society today than Hunger Games and Divergent. During the campaign journey of Nazirah, you could see the different traditions, belief and circumstances of the people. The author manages to capture these images that differentiate us from each other but uniting us, as well. The \"Intermix Nation\" is a world where everybody is equal, despite their origins. This book actually reminded me of Alexander, the Great. In his will, he wanted to unite Asia and Europe through intermarriage and family ties, which made him one of the greatest man in history, in my opinion. Sorry, I'm quite addicted to History which is why I placed this here. This is one of the reasons why this book moved me. Moving on, you might wonder how the author manages to write a whole rebellion in one book. Hunger Games did it through 3 books. How can she do it in one? I would gladly inform you that M. P. Attardo managed to bring justice to her writing with just one book. The whole experience was not lacking at all. The story has a very good flow to it; it neither rushes you or leaves you asking for more explanations. You could see step by step how Nazirah changes and progresses to be better. I think the only bad side to this book is how the heroine gets irritating sometimes which I think is quite understandable because she is going through a lot. The over all story was quite satisfying, most especially the last part where all the action is. You won't really find hard-core action and blood in this book, like what I usual love to read, but it would actually let you think about the images the author is trying to impart to her readers. This is something you must read. I would like to thank the author for giving me a copy of this book and giving me a great time. PS: I totally love the cover of this book. It's simple but really nice. Check out more of my review on: http://kimreadinglounge.blogspot.com/ ...more I can hardly believe this is a debut novel...it is that good. Like Hunger Games good, but with a new adult kick to it! Intermix Nation spent the last month on my Nook and I am embarrassed that it was on there that long before I got to it. Had I know just how much I would like it, this book definitely would have been at the top of my list! It was so nice to break out of the contemporary romance genre (or is it a sub-genre?)...whatever. This dystopian novel was a breath of fresh air and I read it i I can hardly believe this is a debut novel...it is that good. Like Hunger Games good, but with a new adult kick to it! Intermix Nation spent the last month on my Nook and I am embarrassed that it was on there that long before I got to it. Had I know just how much I would like it, this book definitely would have been at the top of my list! It was so nice to break out of the contemporary romance genre (or is it a sub-genre?)...whatever. This dystopian novel was a breath of fresh air and I read it in record time, since putting it down after starting wasn't an option. The characters were so well-written that I wasn't ready to let them go when it was over. And while there wasn't a cliffhanger ending (thank you, Ms. Attardo!), I would definitely like to spend some more time with Nazirah, Adamek, Cato, and company. Speaking of Nazirah...a kick-ass chick that I actually like. Not an everyday occurrence. Beyond that, \"Irri\" (or \"Nazi\", if someone dared calling her that) was a character so full of depth that never once was I annoyed with her. She felt lost before her parents died, in the way that an average intermix girl with few options in life and a huge chip on her shoulder feels lost sometimes. She would rebel against her parents, not listen to their advice, and sneak out of the house...just to assert her independence and power in a world where she truthfully had none. Now, she is truly lost. So lost that living feels more like dying. So lost that Nazirah doesn't remember the person she once was, much less know how to find her. But she doesn't wallow. Grieve, yes. Feel guilty, yes. Who wouldn't? And then there's Adamek Morgen...... The white spots before Nazirah's eyes give her savior a crude halo, which she finds absurdly hilarious. Because she should be surprised that he would be her angel. But she isn't surprised. Not in the least. The look in Adamek's eyes could send a man straight to hell and make him want to stay. The writing really is fantastic, in a way that many New Adult books just aren't, relying heavily on snarky dialogue and steamy sex scenes. Not that Intermix Nation doesn't have both of these (oh yes, it definitely does!), but it's well-written throughout as well. Nazirah rips off her coat as soon as she is alone, growling, popping several buttons. They fall to the floor like suicide jumpers, plunging eagerly to their deaths. Nazirah sympathizes. The mountain ranges have been replaced by lush, rolling hills. The ice has melted, forming freshwater streams and creeks. Trees, taller than Nazirah ever imagined, blanket the vivid sky. Osen was the cradle and rattle of Kasimir's [her father] childhood, the rock of his youth, the muse of his adolescence. It was his first love, his lifelong love. But not his one love. In case you couldn't tell, I loved this book. In typical dystopian fashion, you'll spend the first chapter sorting through fictitious places and atypical names, but I guarantee it is worth it for the story that develops. Can Nazirah forgive seemingly unforgivable acts? Can she forgive herself? You'll definitely want to read and find out. And still, Nazirah remains frozen in purgatory, unable to choose heaven or hell, unable to decide which is which. ***I received a copy of this book in exchange for a fair and honest review. To read the full review, you can find it here: http://nevaehnewadultbooks.blogspot.c... ...more Okay, I\u2019m going to start this review by saying that EVERYONE needs to give this book a go! It hurts to breathe when I think about how much I loved this book. Which surprised the hell out of me considering I wasn\u2019t particularly fond of the cover or the blurb and picked this book up purely because its genre fell into the dystopia challenge I\u2019m participating in this year. It just goes to show you should never, EVER judge a book by it\u2019s cover! I am still amazed that this book is a debut novel. M.P. A Okay, I\u2019m going to start this review by saying that EVERYONE needs to give this book a go! It hurts to breathe when I think about how much I loved this book. Which surprised the hell out of me considering I wasn\u2019t particularly fond of the cover or the blurb and picked this book up purely because its genre fell into the dystopia challenge I\u2019m participating in this year. It just goes to show you should never, EVER judge a book by it\u2019s cover! I am still amazed that this book is a debut novel. <---A>M.P. Attardo</---A>\u2019s voice throughout has a sweet, lyrical storytelling narrative to it. She also manages to breathe life into complicated concepts out laid in this book. Intermix Nation tells the story (in a nutshell) of racism. It may be set in a fictional dystopian world, the people may be set with different challenges than what befalls the diverse races here on our earth, but essentially, the story is still the same: racism is wrong, yet it exists. Attardo carefully brooches this subject with great candour and draws the reader in to explore what it\u2019s like to be a minority in the world. This story centres around Nazirah Nation, a young intermix girl who is struggling to come to terms with the fact her parents were murdered for marrying outside their individual races. Nazirah is not particularly likeable at the start. She\u2019s a spoiled teenanger who is indulgent and completely centred around her own misery. But as the story progresses and her parents murderer, Adamek, jumps teams by joining the rebellion \u2013 effectively teaming with Nazirah as well as being constantly around her, Nazirah grows and grows and grows. Her journey is such a fascinating one. Not only must she grow up and smell the coffee, she becomes the poster child of the rebellion, a position that puts her directly in the path of Adamek. While I don\u2019t want to give anything away, the story of Nazirah and Adamek is unbelievable. I am so thankful that I got the opportunity to follow their journey. There were moments in this book where I just found myself sitting there; reading and weeping. Attardo has the gift of making you live her story. She makes the nasty horror of the character\u2019s situation seem completely real. Yet, rather than wallowing in it, the reader wants more. To be fair, there are moments when you notice that this is a self-published novel. There are a few instances of phrases being repeated close together, formatting errors in relation to chapter starts and the occasional missed or incorrect word. Don\u2019t let this be the reason why you turn this book aside though. I only noticed them because I was purposely looking for criticisms against this book (because, as you know, I really dislike giving an entirely one-sided review) and they in no way truly draw you away from the unique story that is Intermix Nation. Overall, I am giving Intermix Nation by M.P. Attardo 5 out of 5 stars. Honestly, I wish I could give it 6 out of 5 stars. This author is now firmly placed in my \u2018must read\u2019 list. ...more Part of a Blog Tour Original post HERE I have had received this book from the author in exchange of an honest review! I do not know how to speak of a book that has definitely marked my soul for good! I am good with words, but when I find myself at loss for them I am truly sorry for the readers! But this will be clumsy and not like me, yet I do not find another way to explain it, but simple and easy! Nazirah Nation is not your ordinary eighteen years old type of girl. Fascinated by boys or futile thi Part of a Blog Tour Original post HERE I have had received this book from the author in exchange of an honest review! I do not know how to speak of a book that has definitely marked my soul for good! I am good with words, but when I find myself at loss for them I am truly sorry for the readers! But this will be clumsy and not like me, yet I do not find another way to explain it, but simple and easy! Nazirah Nation is not your ordinary eighteen years old type of girl. Fascinated by boys or futile things like hair or make-up and that might be because she no longer lives on the planet that you are used to! She is someone having the misfortune for living in a different time of frame than you are where everyone is marked of what species they are from, where intermixes are not allowed, where the government is trying to destroy you as public as they can, because you are and will be a pariah! She is strong, determined and frightened of a future without her deceased parents. She still sees their bodies, their dreams and their hopes for her, but she feels so small and so not ready to take up on the world and destroy it inch by inch. She does not feel the power, the rebellion in her actions just yet, because she is doomed to relieve their memories over and over again! She is lonely, and that not because she had the best best-friend in the world, but because her own brother betrayed the blood that is cursing through their veins! He does not care! At all! And that I just couldn\u2019t overcome! Their parent\u2019s deaths were marked by a man, a man he does not care about or for! Yet Nazirah is all about destroying him piece by piece without looking back! You can feel this book and not because of the interesting way of saying \u201cI\u2019ve laughed harder, you\u2019ve lost\u201d, but because it makes you wonder and be so suspicious that you almost destroy yourself... or at least your neurons! The lines are definitely blurred when it comes for this book! You expect evil to stay evil, to be a constant reminder of who you truly crossed over, of what you have had really done, but when reality sinks in, you are the one to close your eyes, take a deep breath and say that it is not possible, you have to re-read everything because you just made-up another story, and it is not cool man, not cool at all! But when you do realise that you were the one played all along? C\u2019mon! You almost break your own neck! This story will make you re-think your life! Because we all can find a little piece of ourselves into the intermix nation, into the rebels or even into the Nazirah that I so much did not liked at first! She was so full of guilt, which my own guilt reacted to her! But you do fall in love. Slowly but sure. You do get to seek love, you do get to be loved in the end, but you have to be patient and to await your carriage as if there is no tomorrow. Maybe because there might not be a tomorrow. ...more Intermix Nation was a surprise. I'm not talking about a, \"Oh, hey. That was good! What do you know?\" type of surprise. It was more like a, \"Holy crap, where has this author been my whole life?!\" kind of surprise. Don't let the fact that M.P. Attardo is not only a first-time author, but a self-published author scare you away from this incredible book. This girl has some mad skillz. In Intermix Nation, Nazirah Nation is having a tough time since her parents were murdered. She's just not passionate Intermix Nation was a surprise. I'm not talking about a, \"Oh, hey. That was good! What do you know?\" type of surprise. It was more like a, \"Holy crap, where has this author been my whole life?!\" kind of surprise. Don't let the fact that M.P. Attardo is not only a first-time author, but a self-published author scare you away from this incredible book. This girl has some mad skillz. In Intermix Nation, Nazirah Nation is having a tough time since her parents were murdered. She's just not passionate about the rebel cause like everyone else is. She's not passionate about anything anymore, really. Yet, when her parents were killed and her devastated face was plastered on news stations around Renatus, she instantly and unwillingly became the face of a movement. And now, her brother - the commander of the rebels - needs her to do a job for him. A job that requires her to work closely with the man who killed her parents and destroyed her world as she knew it. Intermix Nation was a really passionate book. And, I'm not talking about the sexy passionate (although, there's some of that too!). It was more the passion you feel when you feel so strongly about something that it spurs you to action. Nazirah goes through a big change through the course of the book. In the beginning, she's actually the opposite of passionate. She's numb. She's been shattered. And now she has to share air with the man who caused those feelings. And, it's like that lights a fire in her. Adamek Morgen, the guy - boy, really - who killed Nazirah's parents, is on a journey of his own. He's done horrible things to try and please his awful father, and it's done nothing but bring him pain. So, he is looking for redemption. Salvation. Forgiveness. Even though he doesn't think he's worthy of it. Interestingly, the one he really needs those things from is the one girl who can't stand to be in the same room as him. With the backdrop of war, these two sad people have to make conscious, hard decisions in order to continue to put one foot in front of the other one. And, they do. I saw a lot of influence from other popular dystopian books such as Divergent and The Hunger Games in Intermix Nation. Through those nods, though, a lot of uniqueness shows through, too. Attardo wrote a gripping, inspiring story about equality, love and forgiveness. The romance was a slow-burn, but when it caught fire finally, WHEW! Was it hot! The side characters were alive. The world - Renatus - and all its territories were built up well and felt very solid. My only complaint is that I wished for a bit more at the end. The build up for the big battle was huge. When my Kindle registered 95% done and the battle wasn't here yet, I started to get nervous. But, then it did happen, and it was fast and furious. It would've been nice to see a bit more of that, and a bit more from Adamek and Nazirah at the end. *sigh* Guess that just means that Attardo will have to write a sequel. ...more This review first appeared on a href=\" http://www.booksiviews.com\">B... i View. I received a copy of this book in exchange for a honest review. I signed up for this tour because I thought this story was very unique from what I\u2019ve read. I really loved the fact that 1) this was New Adult dystopian and 2) it was also a stand alone. Before Intermix Nation I couldn\u2019t even name one New Adult Dystopian. Intermix Nation is set in a dystopian world where races are segregated into different territor This review first appeared on a href=\" http://www.booksiviews.com\">B... i View. I received a copy of this book in exchange for a honest review. I signed up for this tour because I thought this story was very unique from what I\u2019ve read. I really loved the fact that 1) this was New Adult dystopian and 2) it was also a stand alone. Before Intermix Nation I couldn\u2019t even name one New Adult Dystopian. Intermix Nation is set in a dystopian world where races are segregated into different territories. Diversity is seen as a trigger of violence and is forbidden. Nazirah Nation is an outcast being an intermix of two different races. After her parents fall victim to the war on intermix, Nazirah joins the rebellion which is led by her older brother. However things start to heat up when her brother offers Adamek, the killer of their parents, safety and sanctuary in exchange for valuable information. In the beginning of the book Nazirah is withdrawn from the world. Grief and guilt consumes her. All she wants is to desperately seek justice for her parents. When we meet Adamek he is a very mysterious and sinister character. He has scratches all over his hands; each a mark for someone he\u2019s murdered. When they meet, Nazirah harbors a lot of anger towards Adamek. He repulses her. She wants nothing more than to end his life. But then something happens. She sees something in Adamek, something that she doesn\u2019t want to. Something that makes you believe he\u2019s isn\u2019t all that bad. As their relationship progressed, you never know what direction it was going to go. When they are together the atmosphere is charged. Their chemistry is hot then its cold. You don\u2019t know if they\u2019re going to kill each other or make out. I loved how the characters evolved. We see Nazirah go from a depressed and guilt ridden character to one really strong fighter. I think Adamek was the most complex character. In the beginning I hated him but as the story progressed you\u2019re suddenly rooting for him. There\u2019s just not many characters like that around. Now this isn\u2019t just a romance book. There are other issues such as racism and forgiveness that this book tackles. I felt that these issues were very relevant. It wasn\u2019t some outlandish problem that you couldn\u2019t imagine happening in the real world today. It was relatable. While reading this book I could see some similarities from The Hunger Games; albeit both stories very different. I have to applaud M.P. Attardo for writing an action packed dystopian stand alone that is just as good, if not better, than most dystopian series. I really didn\u2019t expect to take away as much as I did with it being a stand alone. Overall I loved Intermix Nation by M.P. Attardo. It is an evenly paced, action packed, romance filled dystopian. I would recommend this for people who like to read dystopians, especially if you liked The Hunger Games! ...more 4.5 stars It must be difficult for any author who wants to write young adult dystopian fiction to do so without being accused of derivative storylines and concepts that are weak shadows of the books that have come before and gained great popularity, books such as The Hunger Games and Divergent. Such comments could be made about Intermix Nation, with some justification, but I think the key to creativity with these later books depends on what is done with common ideas. Yes, it\u2019s true that society ha 4.5 stars It must be difficult for any author who wants to write young adult dystopian fiction to do so without being accused of derivative storylines and concepts that are weak shadows of the books that have come before and gained great popularity, books such as The Hunger Games and Divergent. Such comments could be made about Intermix Nation, with some justification, but I think the key to creativity with these later books depends on what is done with common ideas. Yes, it\u2019s true that society has been fractured into a central government and surrounding dependent provinces and rebellion is fomenting in the outliers but there the similarities begin to morph into something different. The dissolution of the country you and I know came about when the people \u201cin charge\u201d after the Final War decided that America\u2019s biggest flaw was its diversity and that, with so many cultural, religious and racial differences, failure of the system was inevitable. Nearly everything of importance in Ms. Attardo\u2019s novel stems from this belief that the only way to resolve this is by a brutal purification and separation of the races. In essence, this is a study of racism, the great harm that comes from such thinking, and the potential for redemption. Nikolaus and his sister, Nazirah, were born from the illicit union of two people from different provinces and, because of that, are \u201cintermix\u201d and, thus, impure and excluded from society. Despite that, they were brought up to be proud, well-educated and ready to fight for what is right. Nazirah, though, rebels against what is expected of her with tragic consequences. What will be asked of her next will prove to be nearly impossible and will ultimately change her future forever. Perhaps most difficult of all are the changes that will happen to Nazirah herself. There are a number of characters in this story who play important roles and one of the author\u2019s talents lies in her character development. Whether I liked them or not\u2014and some I liked very much indeed\u2014most were so distinctly drawn that I could almost see and hear them in my mind. The overlying plot might be considered just a bit weak because of the unavoidable comparisons to earlier dystopians but there is no doubting the vitality and strength of the core story, the task that Nazirah must undertake. One other thing I\u2019ll mention is that, although there are occasional flaws, the author quite obviously took care in the construction and final production of this book. Such attention to detail and editing added a level of pleasure in reading that I truly appreciated and elevate this book above many self-published novels. I don\u2019t think Ms. Attardo plans a sequel to Intermix Nation (and it is a comfortably complete story) but I\u2019ll look forward to whatever this author writes next. Reviewed by Lelia Taylor, November 2013. ...more Originally posted at The Solitary Bookworm Nazirah Nation always knew where her place was. She is born an intermix \u2013 people who are born of different races \u2013 but never did she had any qualms with her life. She was happy. Intermix don\u2019t have the luxury as some have but she embraces the life she has. Nazirah has a loving family and everything is perfect until the day that Adamek took it all away. Nazirah is out for blood \u2013 no matter what it takes. Intermix Nation is your typical story with a dystopi Originally posted at The Solitary Bookworm Nazirah Nation always knew where her place was. She is born an intermix \u2013 people who are born of different races \u2013 but never did she had any qualms with her life. She was happy. Intermix don\u2019t have the luxury as some have but she embraces the life she has. Nazirah has a loving family and everything is perfect until the day that Adamek took it all away. Nazirah is out for blood \u2013 no matter what it takes. Intermix Nation is your typical story with a dystopian centered plot. You have an emotionally charged situation + a shattered yet strong presence from a herione + and the last straw to spark the movement. Nazirah finds herself in the center of it all because her brother leads the rebellion himself but Nazirah\u2019s head is not in it. She is broken beyond repair by the death of her parents and her heart is not in the cause no matter how encouraging her brother is. To be honest, I wasn\u2019t too invested and connected with Nazirah primarily because she can be a bit self centered and selfish in the first half of the book. It was always about her her her and no one else \u2013 that was what ticked me off given that there was a bigger picture/battle than her pain. She did changed in the other half of the book which was great but still her inconsistency and hypocrisy was boarder unbearable. She is strong I give you that but she was not the heroine I had in mind for the story. Adamek on the other hand was a surprise. Initially, I thought I would hate this guy but his sincerity and eagerness to find redemption and forgiveness was very heartbreaking. Adamek is a cold blooded killer. Someone who does not hesitation because he needed to and he\u2019s very good at this missions. This is a character that you would hate right? But there\u2019s something in Adamek and his sincerity in finding forgiveness that touched my heart and believed in the goodness deep within him. He\u2019s very charming too and funny \u2013 complete opposite of Nazirah\u2019s gloominess and snark. The story was very clean and it was easy to follow. I\u2019m glad that the author didn\u2019t sell the book through a romantic plot. The author has amazing writing skills to be able to deliver a story and wrap everything in a single book given that this is a dystopian novel. We all know how many series are out there and some failed miserably. For the first time, I have read a stand alone dystopian and it was pure awesomeness! That alone plus the fact that I didn\u2019t have any major issues with the book overall is a statement of how amazing both the author and her work is. Highly recommended. Don\u2019t miss out on a chance to read this book \u2013 it is worth your time! ...more Meet Nazirah Nation Four months ago, Nazirah found her parents murdered. Since then, she lives her life in a state of numbness. She is truly lost. Pure hatred is what she feels toward the murderer. The only thing she wants is to escape this cruel reality and avenge her parents. She dreams of a better tomorrow where she can FEEL alive again. Meet Adamek Morganen Adamek prays for only one thing: Forgiveness. He has killed many people. He requests Amnesty and allies with the Rebels. The information and s Meet Nazirah Nation Four months ago, Nazirah found her parents murdered. Since then, she lives her life in a state of numbness. She is truly lost. Pure hatred is what she feels toward the murderer. The only thing she wants is to escape this cruel reality and avenge her parents. She dreams of a better tomorrow where she can FEEL alive again. Meet Adamek Morganen Adamek prays for only one thing: Forgiveness. He has killed many people. He requests Amnesty and allies with the Rebels. The information and strategy that he brings is valuable to them. By receiving Amnesty, he allows himself to accomplish a personal vendetta. After the death of her parents, Nazirah joins the Rebels for the upcoming war. They welcome her with open arms, they feed her, shelter her, and now she is training to fight for her rights. With the Rebels she feels safe. Her world is shattered the day that her brother, which is also the commander, asks her to go on a special mission. Her mission? To become the new face of the Rebellion with the help of her parents murderer. While on their journey, she discovers many hidden secrets. On his side, Adamek will do everything in his power to get her to fight for what she wants. They both can't stand each other, but then again, they will set a pattern, which will bring people to join them in their battle. From one city to another, decisions are taken, lifes are lost, friendships are tested, but most importantly, a nation rises for what they believe in. I give Intermix Nation 4 Intense, captivating, I-can't-believe-it's-a-debut-novel stars! I have to be honest, this is my first Dystopian read. I was not sure what to expect. I was very surprised of how well this story was written. The Characters, places, emotions, events are very well explained. It made me believe in this world. I did find the first couple of chapters overwhelming. There was a lot of information, which set a slow pace at the beginning of the story. I had a hard time connecting with the story in the beginning, but I found myself turning the pages much quicker after a couple of chapters. This story is unique and the author did a fantastic job in making us understand the meaning of FORGIVENESS. The love and hate relationship between the main characters was very well developed. They had to go through different kinds of emotions to end up where they did. I'm extremely happy that I stepped out of my comfort zone by reading Intermix Nation. It sure makes me want to read more books in this genre. I really hope that the author has future plans for these amazing characters. ...more In a world that has risen from the ashes of a once diverse and multicultural North America, nothing is further from their reality. Now separated by race, nobody is allowed to love in marry outside of their own in Renatus. Being born of a mix is considered against the law and taboo, but things aren't bad for Nazirah Nation, in fact quite the opposite. Threw her 18 years living with her brother and parents has been happy and she has never wanted for anything. Her whole world crumbles however, when In a world that has risen from the ashes of a once diverse and multicultural North America, nothing is further from their reality. Now separated by race, nobody is allowed to love in marry outside of their own in Renatus. Being born of a mix is considered against the law and taboo, but things aren't bad for Nazirah Nation, in fact quite the opposite. Threw her 18 years living with her brother and parents has been happy and she has never wanted for anything. Her whole world crumbles however, when someone so close to her betrays them by turning her parents over to the government , getting them killed in the process, Nazirah will take all of her anger and depression and filter that into the rebellion against said government. She will fight for what her parents had, but also for a future that doesn't limit who you can love. Nazirah was a character that outshone even the best in its genre. Move over Katniss and Tris because she is a force to be reckoned with and could possibly wage a war better than either of them as well. I really enjoyed reading her story because of who she was and what she believed in from the very beginning to the end. Of course there are always things that get in the way of a characters beliefs but in this case I think those obstacles make Nazirah better, in fact one of them named Adamek makes her question everything from head to toe about her country and the people around her. She is a kick ass girl even with her turbulent emotions and she has all the qualities that a leader needs to spear head a rebellion like the one she has taken up arms beside. I never disliked her as a character unlike a lot of female leads in dystopian books, she never got on my nerves or whined too much, she was perfect. What was also perfect was the romance between Nazirah and Adamek. It was a slow build from enemy to understanding to love and that was awesome. There was no insta-love between the two, for OBVIOUS reasons, and the way they were around each other, getting to know one another slowly really made the relationship seem tangible instead of something either forced or fake. The way they came together around a common problem in their society and connected was really nice. Plus, this is a stand alone book, which is just refreshing. The author fit so much stuff into one piece, I'm not sure how but she did it in a successful manner that brought rebellion, love and justice into a book that will captivate you from page 1 and never let you go. ...more Intermix Nation is a unique book with a really interesting take on race relations and society. I love dystopia reads and this is an exceptional book with a remarkable take on futuristic society. Interracial mixing is banned in Renatus and those like Nazirah Nation, who are intermix must fight to survive in a system of segregation and domination. This book resonates a powerful message, one that stays with you long after you close the book. From the opening chapter I loved everything about it and Intermix Nation is a unique book with a really interesting take on race relations and society. I love dystopia reads and this is an exceptional book with a remarkable take on futuristic society. Interracial mixing is banned in Renatus and those like Nazirah Nation, who are intermix must fight to survive in a system of segregation and domination. This book resonates a powerful message, one that stays with you long after you close the book. From the opening chapter I loved everything about it and I could not put this book down. The story has a lot of twists and unexpected turns. I love the authors writing style, the storyline, the loss, the overall message. This book is phenomenal. Nazirah Nation has suffered a terrible loss. As a result, she joins her brother and the rebellion party. The memories of her loss eat away at her, she wants revenge, but she is terribly unhappy standing with the rebellion and terribly lonely. She longs for the days of simplicity. Instead she\u2019s filled with grief and guilt day in and day out. Nazirah's struggle to find a balance and adjust to this new life cause her to become detached from everyone and everything. Just as she\u2019s beginning to come to terms with her reality, her world is completely altered by the one person she never imagined she\u2019d come face to face with. As she struggles with her anger and fears she soon realizes that everything is not always black and white and while some things can't be undone there are more things that define a person than one action. I don\u2019t want to give too much, but I will say this is one of the best dystopia books I\u2019ve read since The Hunger Games. I love everything about it. The story captivates you and you become engrossed with the characters the storyline. You'll be on the edge of your seat guessing what will happen next. I really hope the author decides to write more. I'd love more of this story especially with what happens in the final chapters! I highly recommend this book to everyone, but especially to dystopia and new adult fans. Happy Reading! *This book was provided to me for free in exchange for an honest review. All thoughts and comments are my own.* ...more Intermix Nation M.P. Attardo 4 Stars I Absolutely loved this book. It was what you can call a beautiful tragedy. You have Nazirah Nation who is a 17 year old girl living in Retanus. At first I didn't understand the title until of course I opened the book and read the first few pages. Retanus is a place Born from what used to be North America. In Retanus the leaders (their corrupt government) forbids intermix (interracial) marriages. One day Nazirah comes home to find her parents murdered due to the Intermix Nation M.P. Attardo 4 Stars I Absolutely loved this book. It was what you can call a beautiful tragedy. You have Nazirah Nation who is a 17 year old girl living in Retanus. At first I didn't understand the title until of course I opened the book and read the first few pages. Retanus is a place Born from what used to be North America. In Retanus the leaders (their corrupt government) forbids intermix (interracial) marriages. One day Nazirah comes home to find her parents murdered due to them being two different races and married. Her life is then changed from that moment on. She goes to live in a Rebel compound (like their name you can see they are rebels against their government) We meet Nazirah brother Nikolaus who is the leader of the rebels. Nazirah was trained to be a leader like her brother and many are disappointed when they see that it is something she doesn't want and decides to take no part in. At first I didn't like Nazirah Honestly I found myself not liking many of the characters but they all seem to redeem themselves at one time or another. Nazirah went through a lot and understand being an angry teen, but sometimes I felt her to be really spoiled and whiny. But I promise she does get better :) Her brother Nikolaus probably bugged me the most and I didn't like him for a long time, but hey even he turned out to be great! OH now the relationship between Nazirah and Adamek! This relationship was very hot/cold wrong/right. I was very torn in their relationship at first. But as I read on I understood. Adamek isn't your normal book hero. He's very far from it, to some he may actually be the villain. That's something I love about their relationship I'm still obsessing about. I don't want to give too much away. Just remember That the world isn't Black and white there are grey areas and their relationship is def. like that. I haven't had a book that put me through so many real emotions in quite a while. I was Very sad many times other happy and Angry. It is a book I definitely recommend to everyone! ...more I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review for my stop on the blog tour at Donnie Darko Girl . Intermix Nation was a different kind of dystopia that was interesting to read and gave me a lot to think about. I love to read about a rebellion gathering to overthrow the kind of government like that in this novel which tries to keep the different races of people separate. The scary thing is, I can see people blaming diversity on some of the problems we have today. I don't think th I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review for my stop on the blog tour at Donnie Darko Girl . Intermix Nation was a different kind of dystopia that was interesting to read and gave me a lot to think about. I love to read about a rebellion gathering to overthrow the kind of government like that in this novel which tries to keep the different races of people separate. The scary thing is, I can see people blaming diversity on some of the problems we have today. I don't think this novel is too far of a jump from reality. Nazirah is a young girl who comes home one night to find her parents brutally murdered because they were two different races and married anyway. She is an outcast because she is an intermix, born of parents of different races. After the murder of her parents, Nazirah is forever changed from her carefree existence. She never knew much about hate even though she was bullied until she saw the result of it in her own house. There's no way you can read this novel and not feel a mixture of emotions. As much as you are sad for Nazirah and understand where she's coming from, you also don't want her to become swallowed up in her need for vengeance because that can make you into someone as \"bad\" as the side you want to fight against. The journey she takes to find who she was leads her to find out who she is and who she can be. Overall, this was a novel that will stir up many different emotions in you and will give you much to think about. If you are a fan of dystopia or even if you are beginning to grow tired of the genre, I recommend Intermix Nation. This novel breathes new life into the genre. ...more Great Debut! What a way to start a plot. Once I got into the story I knew that this was going to be intense, as Dystopians should be! They and horror are my favorite genres FOR that reason. And maybe for that reason I trust no one... like literally. Even while watching romances I'm like, really? What does that guy/gal have to hide? I want to know! So... while reading this I'm sure you can imagine my thoughts. Especially when the man that killed Nazirah's parents was introduced. But that is where t Great Debut! What a way to start a plot. Once I got into the story I knew that this was going to be intense, as Dystopians should be! They and horror are my favorite genres FOR that reason. And maybe for that reason I trust no one... like literally. Even while watching romances I'm like, really? What does that guy/gal have to hide? I want to know! So... while reading this I'm sure you can imagine my thoughts. Especially when the man that killed Nazirah's parents was introduced. But that is where the plot starts twisting. I wasn't sure who to trust. I definitely know who I did not want to like but as the plot moves on, even that starts to change! What? Who is the antagonist here?!! Adamek really started getting under my skin. I actually want to know more about him. The relationship between Nazirah and Adamek was built perfectly. It was wonderful to see that they had to built trust. I mean with the circumstances if Nazirah ran into his arms without some kind of conflict, I think I would have thrown this book down. Or... since I was reading on my Kindle put it safely on my desk and then threw a tantrum like a pissed off kindergartener. My niece throws the BEST ones! So, although I thought this was a bit slow to start once you get into the thick of things I really enjoyed it. It is dystopian for sure. And there are similarities to other dystopians out there but this one is definitely interesting with twists that I didn't see coming. ...more Ok. Why haven't I heard from this book sooner? I freaking loved it and I honestly can't believe this is the author's first novel. It was well written, the story was interesting and the characters, I absolutely loved them. I loved seeing how Nazirah went from feeling sorry for herself to standing up for herself and for her people. Adamek was a complex character, but I loved him from the moment we were introduced to him. And these two together? They are amazing. Their chemistry is undeniable. Every Ok. Why haven't I heard from this book sooner? I freaking loved it and I honestly can't believe this is the author's first novel. It was well written, the story was interesting and the characters, I absolutely loved them. I loved seeing how Nazirah went from feeling sorry for herself to standing up for herself and for her people. Adamek was a complex character, but I loved him from the moment we were introduced to him. And these two together? They are amazing. Their chemistry is undeniable. Everyone except Adamek and Nazirah know and see it too. I almost didn't want to finish it, just so I could read some more about these two. I know their story is finished but it would be awesome if there would be a second novel or a novella :D My casting: Nazirah Adamek ...more Intermix Nation is a well written dystopian society novel that takes you on an emotional roller coaster. This novel delves into some heavy topics that are predominant in today's society; classism, racism, equality, forgiveness, and dealing with loss as a result of traumatic events. The characters are very well developed and relatable. This truly is a coming of age story following Nazirah and Adamek; their lives so different, yet the same...their struggles in dealing with their actions or inactio Intermix Nation is a well written dystopian society novel that takes you on an emotional roller coaster. This novel delves into some heavy topics that are predominant in today's society; classism, racism, equality, forgiveness, and dealing with loss as a result of traumatic events. The characters are very well developed and relatable. This truly is a coming of age story following Nazirah and Adamek; their lives so different, yet the same...their struggles in dealing with their actions or inactions...how they come to terms with their feelings concerning injustice committed against or by them... An overarching theme in this novel is forgiveness; forgiving oneself and others for the sins they commit and learning how to live with them and not let them consume you. I can't wait to read more of M.P. Attardo's novels! ...more I loved the tension of this book (the push-and-pull from the main love interest was wild), as well as the development of the characters (even the shallow ones have depth!). I'm still pretty torn about the fact that this isn't a series, just because I think this story could have been developed more and there would have been more to love. As a first novel, this really was a great start, and I can't wait to see what else comes out of this author! HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. Great book and an interesting read! Kept me wanting to know what was coming!!! For the young and old at heart this is a look into a future world where love, hate, hope,loyality, compassion and acceptance are tested and re-tested. Nazirah, our heroine, is a product of old and new world values presented in a young idealistic and strong woman. A book that anyone can relate to in todays crazy mixed up world. Read this an enjoy the ride!!!!!", "Title": "Intermix Nation"},
