{"Comments": "I'm the product of an Irish Catholic boarding school for boys. In September 1968,<---M> at the tender age of 11</---M>, I left the warm (over-)protective bosom of home and family -- not just one, but two grandmothers, and a housekeeper to fuss over me while my mother saw patients -- and became one of the 80 or so boys in the first year class at a Franciscan boarding school, about 25 miles north of Dublin, and 160 miles from home. The experience, particularly the first year, was incredibly brutal*. But it wa I'm the product of an Irish Catholic boarding school for boys. In September 1968, at the tender age of 11, I left the warm (over-)protective bosom of home and family -- not just one, but two grandmothers, and a housekeeper to fuss over me while my mother saw patients -- and became one of the 80 or so boys in the first year class at a Franciscan boarding school, about 25 miles north of Dublin, and 160 miles from home. The experience, particularly the first year, was incredibly brutal*. But it was also entirely necessary, and completely transformative. I can trace back almost all of what I consider to be my defining character traits to that first year at Gormanston. I wouldn't consider the time I spent at boarding school the \"best years\" of my life, but it was definitely formative. The survival strategies I learned there pretty much set the pattern for the rest of my life. So I approached <+++>Skippy Dies</+++> with reservations, and a certain amount of trepidation. The defining characteristic of life in a boys' boarding school is tedium - would <---A>Paul Murray</---A> be able to capture the tedium accurately and still write an interesting book? Would reading it stir up a bunch of memories best left undisturbed? And could the book possibly live up to the considerable hype that it has generated? It turned out to be pretty amazing. Paul Murray does indeed get boarding school life down right - he completely nails it. His more significant accomplishment is to have written a book whose appeal transcends the specificity of its setting. <+++>Skippy Dies</+++> is a sprawling, ambitious doorstopper of a book, with an extensive cast of characters (jocks, nerds, priests, lay teachers, parents, drug dealers, psychopaths), not unlike a Dickens story. Fortunately, Murray has the skill to bring these assorted character to life and to tell a story that grabs and keeps the reader's interest. The main focus of the book is to present the events that led up to the death of 14 year old Skippy and to explore its effect on the school community. Along the way, Murray considers a huge variety of disparate themes, ranging from string theory to ancient Irish burial mounds to trench warfare in World War I. Not to mention the pervasive adolescent obsession with sex. At times it seems as if these are mere digressions in a book that's already quite hefty, but the author knows what he's about, and pulls the various threads of his tapestry together to a powerful and satisfying conclusion. With so many balls in the air, you keep expecting him to crash and burn, but he doesn't -- the writing is superb throughout, the story never flags, you don't want it to stop and are a little bit sad when it does. What do we ask of a good novel? A question with as many answers as readers (a pointless question if you live in Toronto and are called Buck).<---F> I take a slightly old-fashioned view</---F>. If an author can create a vividly imagined world, make me care about his characters, and tell a good story that moves me, then I'm a happy camper. Paul Murray does all of these things in this terrific book, and does them so brilliantly that the story transcends the specificity of its particular milieu. Other reviewers have suggested that the book is likely to appeal only to male readers - I couldn't disagree more. This is a terrific book. The Man Booker judges should hang their heads in shame for their failure to include it on this year's shortlist. *factors that worked against me included my age (at least 2 years younger than anyone else in my class), my generally spastic performance at all sports (even more unforgivable was my unwillingness to even pretend to care about sports) and - fatally - showing up on the first day only to realize that I was the only kid in the school still outfitted in short pants. I might as well have had a \"KICK ME\" sign around my neck - my mother carried her guilt about this rare misstep with her to her grave. ...more Skippy Dies is a work of genius. Where else could you combine a coming-of-age tale with string theory, ancient Celtic mythology with fart humor, consideration of cultural forgetfulness with Druid drug dealers (say that five times fast), a look at adulthood as a continuation of adolescence with better tools but less hope, substance abuse of sundry sorts, from doughnuts to diet pills, from weed to heroin and cocaine, from sexual predation to the hormonal cravings of early adolescence to self-cutti Skippy Dies is a work of genius. Where else could you combine a coming-of-age tale with string theory, ancient Celtic mythology with fart humor, consideration of cultural forgetfulness with Druid drug dealers (say that five times fast), a look at adulthood as a continuation of adolescence with better tools but less hope, substance abuse of sundry sorts, from doughnuts to diet pills, from weed to heroin and cocaine, from sexual predation to the hormonal cravings of early adolescence to self-cutting? It may sound like too much but it all hangs together in its own entire and discrete dimension. Did I say that I laughed out loud many, many times? Did I say that I loved, loved, loved this book? Paul Murray Seabrook College, serving as our societal microcosm, is a six-year school in more-or-less contemporary Ireland, before larcenous corporate entities got all their wishes and left Ireland with an empty pot and no gold at all. Daniel \u201cSkippy\u201d Juster, who does indeed die in an opening scene, is a charming 14-year old with a hankering for a sweet thing named Lori. That is short for Lorelie, so break out your Vah-gner. Howard \u201cThe Coward\u201d Fallon, a young teacher in a bad relationship, pines for an alluring substitute named Aurelie, which, I guess, makes her a golden variation on the theme. Can Skippy and/or Howard keep from being dashed on the rocks? The imagery of classical sirens resounds throughout the novel. Ruprecht is Skippy\u2019s genius, overweight roommate. He is very interested in string theory, particularly the notion of a possible eleventh dimension (don\u2019t ask) and concocts experiments to test out his theories. That loud noise you hear might be Ruprecht attempting to transport matter into an alternate dimension. He has tales to tell about his parents, supposedly lost while kayaking in the Amazon. He plays the French Horn as well, and may be a bit too wedded to his analyses. Carl is a troubled Columbine candidate, with a toxic home life and a host of friends one would definitely call the wrong sort. He deals drugs to students, and may sample the product a bit too much. He was obsessed with Lori before Skippy came along. Uh oh. There is also a large cast of wise-cracking boys (mostly) who will definitely tickle your funny bone with their very witty, pun-soaked and profane banter, and creative nicknames for each other and adults as well. (My personal faves were \u201cPere Vert\u201d for Father Green on the adult side and Kevin \u201cWhat\u2019s\u201d Wong for student entries) Their conversations and their concerns make them very real, even if we do not spend a lot of time with most of them. For all you boys out there, Skippy offers plenty of scatological humor, although, being a very-over-age adolescent, there can never be quite enough for me. :-) Murray has a keen ear for the rhythm, tone and degrees of snarkiness these kids exude, leading one to think that either he recalls extremely well his time at the actual school on which Seabrook is based, or part of him never graduated. The story opens with Skippy\u2019s demise, then works up to that event from the past. Skippy has a lot to deal with. His swim coach is after him to shape up, for, among other reasons, Skippy is a natural in the pool. He is slack-jawed at the sight of Lori and struggles to establish a relationship with her, all the while being tormented by his romantic rival, the ominous, thuggish and maybe addled Carl. Add to that a mother dying of cancer and a father who can spare him no attention. Have a nice life. Oh, sorry. Once up to Skippy\u2019s passing, the story continues, looking at how both teens and adults cope. I was blown away by this book. I loved the characters, the story was compelling and the payload was considerable. I hated to put the thing down, or in this case, for the battery to run out, as I was reading it on a Nook. There is quite a bit of paralleling here about various sorts of dimensions that exist in close proximity to each other spatially or chronologically. There is a consideration of the Irish role in World War I and the subsequent national attitude about that, as well as how events in one\u2019s personal past can define history on an individual basis, even if they might be somewhat misremembered, whether by design or not. Failure and redemption coexist nicely here. Growth and stasis as well. There is a look into string theory, which is a pretty neat trick, ancient religions and alternate dimensions occupy close turf as well. A school filled with rambunctious teenaged-boys would be incomplete without the predictable evil principal. He remains a cardboard figure here, acting as the designated uber-schmuck to all around him. Think Dean Wormer from Animal House . He also personifies, beyond his cartoonish darkness, a more meaningful bleakness, voicing certain beliefs that most reasonable people would find troubling. There is also a very Snape-like priest, with a dark secret of his own, wandering the halls. You will love Skippy and his bright-light roommate Ruprecht. Murray even gives us reasons to care about some of the unpleasant and damaged people who appear. You will laugh and you will cry. And you will never be able to think of Frost\u2019s The Road Not Taken the same way again. With Skippy Dies Murray has proven, for any who might doubt it, that there is plenty of room for uproarious laughter in a work of great literature. Skippy Dies? I don\u2019t think so. Skippy will live forever. PS - This is the review I wish I had written - http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/05/boo... Here is another http://www.bookslut.com/features/2011... I enjoyed the following interview with Murray http://www.theparisreview.org/blog/ta... ...more skippy dies on the first page of this book. then there are 600 pages of buildup and aftermath. it has been compared to Infinite Jest ,which i can see, but i also feel it is a good companion-piece to The Instructions . all three of these books (IJ only in part) focus on adolescents who are in school/boarding school environments that use genuinely funny (as opposed to manipulative-funny) humor to offset the horrors of youth and its incipient discoveries. they all have elements of the absurd, of the ne skippy dies on the first page of this book. then there are 600 pages of buildup and aftermath. it has been compared to Infinite Jest ,which i can see, but i also feel it is a good companion-piece to The Instructions . all three of these books (IJ only in part) focus on adolescents who are in school/boarding school environments that use genuinely funny (as opposed to manipulative-funny) humor to offset the horrors of youth and its incipient discoveries. they all have elements of the absurd, of the near-slapstick spectacle, and each book's action revolves around a troubled holden caulfield-type of character whose actions propel the narrative. in the instructions , the characters all revolve around gurion, and infinite jest , the characters satellite hal. but what further links all these books, to my mind, is the strength of the supporting characters. i am trying not to digress too much into a discussion of the comparison-pieces, so i will try to focus on the characters in this one here. mario is fantastic, in his would-be lothario role, and there is something that should be gross but in this book is very funny, about a bunch of virgin boys sitting around and talking/boasting about sex. it is like when tobias talks about \"the clatter\" of his wife's breasts. you just want to kind of pat them on the head, until you realize they are staring at your chest and you have to slowly back away. dennis is another favorite of mine. he is so cynically realistic, so already-figured-it-out, you can't help but feel sympathy for him and recognize that his acerbity is a response to what shiny youth-hope he has already shrugged off. ruprecht, obviously. but the best are the scenes with all the boys together. their banter, their rapid-fire patter, the casually innocent homophobic remarks and endless dick-jokes of boys at that age, the \"your mom\" jokes, the giggling over the word \"mound.\" (okay, i giggled, too.) standout moments: patrick \"da knowledge\" noonan and eoin \"MC sexecutioner\" flynn's audition for the school concert. i spoil-tag it, because i think it is nice to have the option. (view spoiler) [ The boys mount the stage, gold chains clinking, and spend the next few moments slouching back and forth, mumbling mysteriously to themselves. Then, to an enormous, naked drumbeat that explodes from Sexecutioner's ghettoblaster to rock the entire hall, they begin to bounce around the boards, making inscrutable hand signals, their vast trousers flapping about them like sails, and Knowledge grabs the mike: 'I got X-ray EYES, but she's wearin lead PANTS, so I got to get her BOOTY wi-' 'Next!' The judgement issues summarily from the review panel before Sexecutioner has even had a chance to drop his first 'motherfucker.' For a moment, the boys remain rooted to the spot in ungangsta-like attitudes of woundedness, mocked by the drumbeat that is still thumping around them; then, unplugging the ghettoblaster, they clamber down and make the walk of shame to the exit. 'What in God's name was that?' the Automator says as soon as they have left. Trudy peers down at her clipboard. \"original material.\" \"Our old friend original material,\" the Automator says grimly. (hide spoiler) ] which is funny enough, just in the wide-eyed belief that this material would be suitable for a concert at a catholic boy's school, but the real hearttwist comes, for me, when the program(me) is announced: 'Did we get in?' Eoin 'MC Sexecutioner' Flynn asks anxiously, stuck at the back of the crowd examining the board. Patrick 'Da Knowledge' Noonan scans the list again, then, scowling, turns away. 'No.' 'We didn't?' Eoin is shocked. 'What did you expect, man?' Patrick throws up his hands at him. 'Take a look at the programme, it's wall-to-wall Whitey!' ah, the sweet optimism of youth. and the sweet racial dysmorphia, as both eoin and patrick are unhappily white themselves. obviously the dance is another great moment, and what the dance devolves into, but those are the big show-stopping scenes. there are also amazing quiet scenes, like the fear of jelly. and more serious matters, like tom's secret, and what it does to howard, and the criminal way it is handled by the school, and just the fact that the situation subverts expectations in a surprising way, and then allows those expectations to play out to a conclusion in a way which perpetrates those expectations to the public-at-large without justice. this makes no sense if you haven't read the book, and probably maybe even no sense to you if you have , because i am trying to dance around the spoiler-flames here, and it's too juicy to spoiler-tag, because i know you people are drawn to those like a trail of breadcrumbs. but - god - for all its humor, this book is so freaking sad. it's about all the Big Things, like how we never really know anybody, or appreciate the ones we should, about the disconnect that occurs between adolescence and adulthood, about the wide-eyed optimism of youth that slowly gets stripped away. about betrayal and the inability to confess, to communicate, to speak. this is probably where the connection to infinite jest is the strongest; the wounded shutting-down. and then all the ways we try to cope with life: drugs, romance, grasping at straws, charity, music, science, cutting, anorexia, pregnancy - anything to try to feel or to escape. (also very IJ -y) it would be a bleak little book if not for the sheer lyrical momentum of it. paul murray's got a great sense of pacing, both in the unspooling of the story, and in the tonal pacing. it is never allowed to get too bleak or too frivolous - he manages the mood very well. it's true that the female characters in this book kind of get the short end of the stick. (this is not meant to be a \"penis envy\" joke) they are less characters as stand-ins for ideals, mostly just there to embody the robert graves-idea of the white goddess and the black goddess;their role is just to affect the male characters, but this doesn't really hinder the story, unless you are someone for whom \"the way females are represented\" takes precedence over, you know, the story itself. this is a great book, and one that is hard to review. it perfectly describes the conflicting teenage desires to grow up, while still clinging to brittle vestiges of innocence, and then flipsides it with the adult characters and their painfully-familiar nostalgia over their own lost youth, all in a bigger story about the search for truth in history and in present-day life. there are so many elements i didn't even get to touch on: celtic mythology, the dark shadow of carl, donuts, scary drug dealers, pop music tarts... i encourage you to read it and tell me what else i forgot to even mention. oh, and spoiler: skippy dies.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more What to say, what to say. I really enjoyed this book, and I never really feel like writing reviews of my favorites, probably because it's easier to be snarky while taking the piss (oh British). Writing about something that I found intellectually stimulating, or that made me laugh, or moved me (or all three, which this one did) requires me to be genuine and thoughtful in a way making fun of Stephanie Meyer never will. But this is definitely one of my top new release reads of the year, probably a What to say, what to say. I really enjoyed this book, and I never really feel like writing reviews of my favorites, probably because it's easier to be snarky while taking the piss (oh British). Writing about something that I found intellectually stimulating, or that made me laugh, or moved me (or all three, which this one did) requires me to be genuine and thoughtful in a way making fun of Stephanie Meyer never will. But this is definitely one of my top new release reads of the year, probably a close second to The Lonely Polygamist, which I didn't review, and I didn't want to make the same mistake twice. So, why did I like this book. For one thing, it consistently amused me. Paul Murray has written what a fancier reviewer than I would probably dub \"a boisterous comic novel\" or something. I'd just say it made me laugh a lot, and I am a bad reader when it comes to funny books -- I read them wrong, rush them and and forget to laugh. I think spending time with a bunch of real sex-obsessed high school boys sounds like pure hell, but I never got sick of reading about them picking on each other and making lewd jokes. Murray's narrative voice is pretty effortless. He switches POV and tense at whim, and some chapters start in typical third person and then suddenly jump to second person and then stream of consciousness (sans punctuation) without missing a beat or jarring the reader (The Reader). It could have come across as incredibly affected or self-indulgent but it really works for this story, which is in large part about how we all feel alone, or terrified of being alone, almost all the time. Because he is writing about teenagers, these thoughts have an immediacy and hormone-fueled emotional force that just wouldn't be as propulsive with all those periods and commas and semi-colons cluttering up the page, or without sticking us right inside a character's head (I almost never want to be told what I am thinking while reading but Murray gets away with whole chapters of 'you's). Of course, there are adult characters too, and he captures their voices just as well, but the kids are the ones you're going to remember, because they're the ones who still have a chance at a little bit of hope. Because the adults here are pretty broken, crushed by the realities of life and unrealized dreams and unfulfilled desires, many of them sexual, sometimes sexually disturbing (Did I mention this book is about an Irish Catholic boys' boarding school? I did not? Well read the plot summary yourself). The kids haven't quite reached that point yet, but don't worry, they'll probably get there: this is hardly a cutesy, idealized portrait of childhood; it's actually a pretty accurate recreation of the ways being a teenager sucks on about every level, one of them being that its the time when all of your illusions about your life, your future, and the adult world start to fall apart. But the kids, they still want to hold everything together for a little longer. Overweight genius/social outcast/donut-lover Ruprecht, who is as much a central character as the titular Skippy (who does, indeed, die, on about page 11) in particular is obsessed with discovering the secret to the physical forces that are holding the universe together, and it's kind of heartbreaking to witness his naivety as he conducts elaborate, childish scientific experiments to prove his theories are correct because he cannot imagine being able to survive in a world in which they aren't. To some readers, the long digressions about physics and string theory will probably seem like self-indulgent filler stretching out a rather long book that is otherwise a sort of standard coming-of-age boarding school deal, but it is in these detours that it managed to make me feel something (and kept it from seeming like glorified YA striving for literary cred). See, I already wrote a ton and have no idea if I have made you want to read the book. But if I tried to organize my thoughts any more I'd probably end up deleting the review and that would certainly have been a waste of time. Plus no one is going to read Lonely Polygamist just because I gave it five stars, but maybe someone will buy this one thanks to my poorly organized thoughts collected above. Or maybe if they know that, in one section, a character offers a rather spirited and convincing argument that Frost's \"The Road Not Taken\" is actually about anal sex. I never thought of it that way; never again will I not. Facebook 30 Day Book Challenge Day 3: Book that makes you laugh out loud. ...more Q: Oh, what's this? I don't quite understand. As I recall you said a few derogatory things about Skippy Dies when you were on p 120 and even by p 250 you weren't dancing in the streets and giving out free copies, and yet, here we see five fat stars sitting there, I counted them, and as I understand it that's the maximum number you can award, so what accounts for this seeming change of heart and are you a little ashamed of your original remarks? Would you wish to do a little public recanting? A : Q: Oh, what's this? I don't quite understand. As I recall you said a few derogatory things about Skippy Dies when you were on p 120 and even by p 250 you weren't dancing in the streets and giving out free copies, and yet, here we see five fat stars sitting there, I counted them, and as I understand it that's the maximum number you can award, so what accounts for this seeming change of heart and are you a little ashamed of your original remarks? Would you wish to do a little public recanting? A : Yes, well, thank you for reminding me, but may I say that this brilliant novel is a very slow burner which gradually changes its character from \u2013 may I say? \u2013 relentless, verging on annoying, schoolboy humour (it's set in a posh school) into horror, terror, cruelty, you know, the whole nine yards of human experience, it's right here. Did I say it's brilliant? But you do need a little patience. And I would like to thank all of the people on this site who wrote great reviews (Paquita, Krok Zero and David Giltinan for instance) and those who told me to carry on. Thank you. Q: So what was that thing you were telling me about Romeo and Juliet and Truman Capote? I wasn't really listening \u2013 you can go on at times you know. A: Oh well, the title, you see, Skippy Dies, plus the very first couple of pages, in which Skippy actually dies , gives the central event of the book \u2013 661 pages long \u2013 completely away. So it's like Romeo & Juliet where the prologue tells you A pair of star-cross'd lovers take their life; Whose misadventured piteous overthrows Do with their death bury their parents' strife See? it gives away the whole plot immediately. Also, in Truman Capote's best story Children on Their Birthdays he tells you that the amazing Miss Lily Jane Bobbitt will be run over by a bus in the first paragraph. First you think \u2013 how can this device work? But it does. Q: What were you saying about how long it was? I mean it's actually really bloody long isn't it. A: I was saying that it's 661 pages and not a page too long! Because it's like the way Jonathan Franzen makes his last two novels work. He gets his family and he starts filling in all the details, and one thing leads on very naturally to the next, so that there's kind of a plot but it's more like the plot in your own life, i.e. doesn't feel like a plot, and in Skippy, Paul Murray fills in the school and a few of the the foul-mouthed boys and their teachers and it's like a giant canvas, which bit shall I add in today, how about some trees here and a car crash there, and lots of drugs over here, and some horrible sex behind that car park. Not that there's any other resemblance between Mr Franzen and Mr Murray, it's just a kind of technique thing which for me works magnificently. Q: I heard you ranting on about the Booker as usual. What's that got to do with the price of a pound of artichokes? A: Skippy made the 2010 Booker long list \u2013 that's all. Not even the short list. I mean, what? What's that all about? Also, it made the Costa Prize shortlist but didn't win. Maggie O'Farrell won both damned prizes for The Hand that First held Mine. So now I can't read that one because I'd be reading through the clenched teeth of resentment. Q: If you could pick one reason why you thought this was so fivestarry, what would...that...reason...beeeee...? Mmmm? And can I have the last piece of carrot cake? A: This is a book about youth culture which in Britain is a phrase often pronounced sardonically in Estuary English like this : Yoof cowcha You could add an equally sardonic \"innit\" for extra effect, as in : \"It's yoof cowcha, innit\" I've complained in other reviews that often when there are actual young characters in novels the dialogue sounds like the author is one of those elderly uncles still trying to crack on that he's down with the kids and hip to the beat on the street, with toe curling results. Skippy Dies gets everything note perfect. Paul Murray knows what boys talk like. It's almost like he was one not very long ago. I enjoyed the total beyond-fetishising beyond-obsession centrality of the mobile phone. I enjoyed the mad disjunction between all the stuff in the boys' heads (love! Sex! Science!) and the actual reality they inhabit (being jerked around! Bad blowjobs! Stupid experiments which fail!). I enjoyed the vitality and boundless fizzing onrushing prose which Paul Morris brings to the subject of wretchedness and bleak betrayal. Q: One last thing \u2013 who was your favourite character? A: Mario, the 14 Year old Italian-Irish would-be stallion, who is consistently good value. Regarding the upcoming Hallowe'en Hop, for instance, he says: \"I don't know about you guys, but I am planning to score a lot of bitches at this Hop. Probably I will start with one really hot girl, straight sex, no frills. Then I will have a sixty-nine. Then it will be time for a threesome.\" To summarise : Skippy Dies - believe the hype. ...more Succinctly, Skippy Dies is giddy nitrous laughter, childish wonderment, adolescent awkwardness, and the disappointment and disenchantment of adulthood wrapped up in a hard cover. This book made me laugh and sigh and occasionally hate the big, mean world before conceding that there is still much within it to pine for. And that is the whole point of most coming-of-age tales, right? It has all the proper ingredients, leading it to feel a little too capital-c Cute here and there, but all in all this Succinctly, Skippy Dies is giddy nitrous laughter, childish wonderment, adolescent awkwardness, and the disappointment and disenchantment of adulthood wrapped up in a hard cover. This book made me laugh and sigh and occasionally hate the big, mean world before conceding that there is still much within it to pine for. And that is the whole point of most coming-of-age tales, right? It has all the proper ingredients, leading it to feel a little too capital-c Cute here and there, but all in all this mound of scattered string has been spun into a lovely and memorable web. It is one of those books filled with multi-layered sadness, loss, and regret that still leaves you curiously afloat at the end. Shattered lives are swept into tiny piles and left to indeterminate fates, but you don't really care because--as the book just screamed in your face--that's kind of the constant state of things anyway, isn't it? Sure, sure, typical \"watch everybody wilt, decay, and then regrow\" nonsense, but somber, self-aware, and humorous enough to get away with it. I warn you, however: do not read my somewhat mushy gushy response to this story of death and rebirth as any indication that this book is suitable material to read to your child or purchase for a young adult at Christmastime. This is not Oh! The Places You'll Go , unless you have an edition I don't know about that contains facial splooging, super-rough and loveless anal sex, heroin distribution and abuse, gang violence, infidelity with a coworker (i.e. unprotected wham-bam-thankyamam sex on a schooldesk between two almost-strangers), clergy molestation scandals and cover-ups, suicidal thoughts and behavior, self-mutilation via cutting and burning and starving and overstuffing oneself, prostitution, date rape, massive orgies, and string theory. I'll totally book swap you if yours does, though. The best part of the novel for me was Assistant Principal in-the-making Greg Costigan, a dynamic, heavily caffeinated, wolf's teeth grinning sharpshooter of a Wall Street type whose magnetic written presence demanded the reader's full attention in a way that even the Silver Screen can rarely pull off with so much electricity. I could have gotten used to a lot more scenes with him, though the attention devoted to each of the many characters was actually quite well-balanced considering their numbers. In fact, author Paul Murray takes a fairly large group of converging and diverging characters from often widely different backgrounds and choreographs an oddly graceful dance out of their stumbling, bumbling steps, elegant in the chaotic, scattered way of a moth pirouetting near a porch-light. Murray works on you for so long, inspires such empathy for these imperfect specimens, that when you finally find yourself in the scene where the overweight, awkward, yet generally confident and composed nerdy kid is raining buckets from his eyeballs, slobbering and blubbering all over himself from accepting utter destitution, defeat, and self-hatred as he stuffs his flabby face with soda and donuts, you can feel your heart being popped in a million tiny places like bubble wrap. The excruciating pain of his rock-bottomness makes you feel nauseated, helpless, and seriously in need of a hug. This book is awesome. It makes you happysad. The pacing and tone make for a satisfying speed read that rarely if ever loses the engrossment of its audience. It is lurid in places and lovely in others, is scientific and folkloric but also sorta neither, is at once both playful and withholding, and just generally rules. Read it. Even if you don't love it as much as I do, I betcha you'll still at least like it a whole, whole lot and look back on it fondly. *Additional thought: I have never read Infinite Jest or any of the Harry Potter books, but I feel pretty confident stating that this book is not some absurd combination of them. Ignore the blurb. ...more This is a very, very funny book. At times, it\u2019s relentlessly funny. But then, \u2026 \u2018Hmm, maybe you should have asked one of the nuns,\u2019 Dennis remarks contemplatively. \u2018Did you ask them, Ruprecht? Did you ask the nuns to show you their mound?\u2019 I will suggest to you that, questions of aesthetics and all things literary aside, that it is, in fact, impossible for most male readers, straight or not straight, to avoid being caught up by the frequently juvenile boy-humor that runs rampant throughout Skippy This is a very, very funny book. At times, it\u2019s relentlessly funny. But then, \u2026 \u2018Hmm, maybe you should have asked one of the nuns,\u2019 Dennis remarks contemplatively. \u2018Did you ask them, Ruprecht? Did you ask the nuns to show you their mound?\u2019 I will suggest to you that, questions of aesthetics and all things literary aside, that it is, in fact, impossible for most male readers, straight or not straight, to avoid being caught up by the frequently juvenile boy-humor that runs rampant throughout Skippy Dies . Yes, it\u2019s of the lowest form. Yes, it\u2019s usually uninformed. And, yes, it\u2019s by its very uninformed nature that it renders itself innocent. The humor, perhaps the novel\u2019s saving grace, is almost entirely of the bathroom/bedroom/blowjob variety (The Three Bs of juvenile humor?) On the downside, it is exactly the innocence of the boys of Seabrook College (an Irish, Catholic HS) which is at stake, particularly when considered against all the adults with their own Seabrook affiliations. While some of these adults are sympathetic characters, they are individually pathetic\u2014cheaters, sexists, pedophiles, phonies, adult bully versions of their juvenile counterparts. That these adults, for the most part, get their just deserts ultimately, their suffering weighed against the suffering of the teenaged children doesn\u2019t quite balance out. \u2018It\u2019s a good example of how history works,\u2019 Howard says. \u2018We tend to think of it as something solid and unchanging, appearing out of nowhere etched in stone like the Ten Commandments. But history, in the end, is only another kind of story and stories are different from the truth. The truth is messy and chaotic and all over the place. Often it just doesn\u2019t make sense. Stories make things make sense, but the way they do that is to leave out anything that doesn\u2019t fit. And often that is quite a lot.\u2019 Unlike history, Skippy Dies doesn\u2019t leave anything out. All the ends seem tied-up, even as it threatens a Lovely Bones sort of ending. Murray loads the text with little nuggets, often funny, as often, insightful, e.g. following a discussion of the origins of the science of communication in man\u2019s quest to contact the dead: \u201cAfter devoting itself for two world wars to perfecting the new methods of annihilation, did science no longer want to hear what the annihilated might have to say?\u201d There is a persistent feeling of Skippy Dies being a YA novel for As. It\u2019s fun, not quite fast enough, one for the kid in you. ...more Things I learned from Skippy Dies: \"The Road Less Traveled\" by Robert Frost is actually about anal sex. (Now please don't all leave me outraged comments and personal messages asking me how I can be so disgusting and impugn Frost's memory. I didn't make it up -- it's actually in the book. Ok, I did choose to mention it, but seriously, how you can review this book without mentioning it, I don't know.) But there's a lot more to Skippy Dies , which was long-listed for the Man Booker. Paul Murray is pre Things I learned from Skippy Dies: \"The Road Less Traveled\" by Robert Frost is actually about anal sex. (Now please don't all leave me outraged comments and personal messages asking me how I can be so disgusting and impugn Frost's memory. I didn't make it up -- it's actually in the book. Ok, I did choose to mention it, but seriously, how you can review this book without mentioning it, I don't know.) But there's a lot more to Skippy Dies , which was long-listed for the Man Booker. Paul Murray is pretty brilliant in his ability to get into teenagers' heads -- their dialogue here is pitch perfect, including stuff like (I'm about to mention the Frost thing again, so all you sensitive people, please avert your eyes): \"I've been thinking about that Robert Frost poem,\" he says. \"I don't think it's about making choices at all.\" \"What's it about, so?\" Geoff says. \"Anal sex,\" Dennis says. \"Anal sex?\" \"How'd you figure, Dennis?\" \"Well, once you see it, it's pretty obvious. Just look at what he says. He's in a wood , right? He sees two roads in front of him. He takes the one less travelled . What else could it be about?\" \"Uh, woods?\" \"Going for a walk?\" \"Don't you listen in class? Poetry's never about what it says it's about, that's the whole point of it. Obviously Mrs. Frost or whoever isn't going to be too happy with him going around telling the world about this time he gave it to her up the bum. So he cleverly disguises it by putting it in a poem which to the untrained eye is just about a boring walk in some gay wood.\" \"But, Dennis, do you think Mr. Slattery'd be teaching it to us if it was really about anal sex?\" \"What does Mr. Slattery know?\" Dennis scoffs. \"You think he's ever taken his wife up the road less travelled?\" \"Poh, when have you ever gone up the road less travelled?\" Mario challenges. Dennis strokes his chin. \"Well, there was that magical night with your mother...I tried to stop her!\" -- ducking out of the way as Mario swings at him. \"But she was insatiable! Insatiable!\" Murray also manages to juggle a lot of characters, major themes, and plot points, and do it all well. It's been an excellent year for novels in general, so I know that your to-read pile is probably too tall already, but this one is definitely worth adding. ...more Talk about truth in advertising\u2026. As promised in the title, Skippy dies. In fact, he dies in the first few pages when he falls off his stool in a doughnut shop. Who was this kid and what happened? Well, that\u2019s what the rest of the book is for. Skippy was Daniel Juster, a shy and nerdy boy at a Catholic boy\u2019s school in Ireland. In the time before his death, we meet a variety of characters that are unknowingly part of the chain of events that lead to his untimely demise. There\u2019s Skippy\u2019s roommate, a Talk about truth in advertising\u2026. As promised in the title, Skippy dies. In fact, he dies in the first few pages when he falls off his stool in a doughnut shop. Who was this kid and what happened? Well, that\u2019s what the rest of the book is for. Skippy was Daniel Juster, a shy and nerdy boy at a Catholic boy\u2019s school in Ireland. In the time before his death, we meet a variety of characters that are unknowingly part of the chain of events that lead to his untimely demise. There\u2019s Skippy\u2019s roommate, an overweight student named Ruprecht who is fascinated by the promise of multiple dimensions hypothesized in M-theory and who makes bizarre inventions that never work. Lorelai is a girl from a neighboring school that Skippy has developed a crush on, but she\u2019s also the object of a creepy obsession of one of his fellow students who is also a pyschopath and novice drug dealer. Howard \u2018The Coward\u2019 Fallon is Skippy\u2019s history teacher with his own complicated history at the school and who hopes to cure his dissatisfaction with his life by sleeping with a beautiful substitute geography teacher. Greg Costigan is the acting principal who cares so much about the school that looking out for its students has slipped far down his priority list. What becomes apparent before Skippy\u2019s death is that something is seriously troubling him, but all the characters are so wrapped up in the details of their own lives that no one takes the time to really help the young man. The resulting guilt causes a wave of bizarre repercussions. I\u2019ve seen this book compared to Infinite Jest and Jonathan Franzen. Those are apt, and I\u2019d also say that it reminded me a bit of the film Donnie Darko . However, this is also a unique and moving book that had me at times laughing, angry, sad wistful, depressed and hopeful. The characters are incredibly well drawn and believable. Greg Costigan in particular is such a son-of-a-bitch that I wished he was real so I could get on a plane to Ireland just so I could kick him in the junk. The teen characters are also very well done, and Murray absolutely nailed that weird contradiction where kids that age have well-honed instincts about some things like the hypocrisy of adults but are still naive enough to think that you can get pregnant from oral sex. Also, I listened to the audio version of this and it was done with a full cast doing all the different dialogue. It was one of the best listening experiences I\u2019ve had yet with an audible book. ...more Skippy, buddy, I am sorry. I wanted to hear out your story, but some of these people around you tried my patience too far. From the moment I started reading Skippy Dies , I couldn't stop thinking that I could be reading something better instead. More than 150 pages later, I was still thinking the same. I decided I didn't want to continue reading about a couple of teenagers (except Skippy and Ruprecht) being kind of d*cks and the dismal life of one uninteresting adult. Skippy Dies is not bad. I so w Skippy, buddy, I am sorry. I wanted to hear out your story, but some of these people around you tried my patience too far. From the moment I started reading Skippy Dies , I couldn't stop thinking that I could be reading something better instead. More than 150 pages later, I was still thinking the same. I decided I didn't want to continue reading about a couple of teenagers (except Skippy and Ruprecht) being kind of d*cks and the dismal life of one uninteresting adult. Skippy Dies is not bad. I so wish it were better though. Most of all, some subtlety would have been a huge relief. How many mentions of zombies, drugs, girls, classroom pranks etc. need to be made to convince the readers that we are in the world of teenagers? How many times does Ruprecht need to prattle on about aliens and the eleventh dimension to establish his position as the token nerdy kid? (His weight problem is only an unavoidable side-effect of his nerdiness. That's a proven Hollywood-ian fact, and no one can tell me otherwise.) How many times is Howard going to mention Graves, before we catch on to what (psst. who) he really means to talk about? Me and Paul Murray don't seem to agree on the answers to these questions. Skippy Dies brought back memories of a couple of other books that I read during the last few months, but didn't get along very well with: - a new enthusisatic author trying a little too hard - one-dimensional characters constantly highlighting their only trait (Though SD is better than HYS in many ways.) - teenage drama With these things occupying my mind, it became impossible for me to keep reading without nitpicking. I do wonder, though, if I (we?) am somehow ill-conditioned to like a novel set in the present age. This being a time I am familiar with, I am quite likely to compare the book to the real world around me. For example, at one point in this novel Paul Murray held up a big arrow sign saying - \"Hey, look! that teenager is texting on his cellphone\". Now that's something we have seen plenty of and take for granted. Paul Murray making a big deal out of it, instead of simply mentioning it in passing, just doesn't sit right. Anyway, I hope there is better stuff to come out of Murray's pen. I will keep an eye out for his upcoming books. PS: Since I am already nitpicking, let me add that I don't like the cover either. ...more In Skippy Dies Paul Murray writes 21st-century Ireland's response to Joyce's A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man . Set in the fictional Seabrook College, the novel follows the lives of Daniel 'Skippy' Juster and his overweight, genius friend Ruprecht van Doren. However, as the title suggests, Skippy dies. He dies on the very first page. The novel then rewinds back (\u00e0 la The Secret History ) and the story begins. Over the next 600-pages Murray writes one of the greatest Irish novels of the cent In Skippy Dies Paul Murray writes 21st-century Ireland's response to Joyce's A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man . Set in the fictional Seabrook College, the novel follows the lives of Daniel 'Skippy' Juster and his overweight, genius friend Ruprecht van Doren. However, as the title suggests, Skippy dies. He dies on the very first page. The novel then rewinds back (\u00e0 la The Secret History ) and the story begins. Over the next 600-pages Murray writes one of the greatest Irish novels of the century thus far. At points in this novel it was like reading dispatches of my life in secondary school. Murray perfectly encapsulates life in an all-boys Irish Catholic secondary school (I went to an all-boys Irish Catholic secondary school). The antics in the classroom, the attitude towards teachers, the banter between classmates, it was all so wonderful that it made me long for my school days. God I miss them. In Ireland there is nothing funnier than a funeral. We're an incredibly morbid nation and our literature reflects that. The humour in Skippy Dies is subtle but biting, highly offensive, and undeniably Irish . This is without a doubt Paul Murray's masterpiece. He joins the ranks of Laurence Sterne, Samuel Beckett, and Flann O'Brien. I highly recommend this masterful novel. ...more First, whoever wrote the jacket copy for this book deserves to be given a few punches to the head. For the life of me I can't even remember there being a midget basketball player (oh wait, now I can, but the very brief paragraph or two that he appears in the book is unessential), and the white rapper character is just a piece of comic relief. Other reviews do a good job of lambasting the jacket blurbs. Second, I've read about half of the Harry Potter books, and I don't see the comparison between First, whoever wrote the jacket copy for this book deserves to be given a few punches to the head. For the life of me I can't even remember there being a midget basketball player (oh wait, now I can, but the very brief paragraph or two that he appears in the book is unessential), and the white rapper character is just a piece of comic relief. Other reviews do a good job of lambasting the jacket blurbs. Second, I've read about half of the Harry Potter books, and I don't see the comparison between this and that except there are some kids in both. I do see the Infinite Jest comparison though. I'd be very very very (add some more here if you'd like in your head) surprised to find out that the author hadn't read DFW's masterpiece a few times. This could be a bad thing, but it's not. Like The Instructions this book does a fantastic job at paying an homage to Infinite Jest but adding enough of it's own originality and quirks to the book so that it doesn't feel like your just reading a second-rate rip-off. One way I've been describing the book to people (well three people, but that's like my whole social world plus a co-worker) is that it's IJ light: the book doesn't demand very much from the reader, it's fairly linear (except that in the first chapter Skippy dies, and then get to read up to the event, knowing full well that Skippy aint gonna be living too much longer), and while it has a large cast of characters it doesn't bombard the reader with the number that DFW does. It also doesn't have any of the big asides, there is no eschaton-esque scene, there is nothing like the need to be given chemical compounds for drugs, long filmographies or even a single footnote. The book also takes place in just one general place, sort of like if IJ took place only at ETA. What I mean to say is, it's like all the fun of the ETA parts of IJ without any of the work! Sort of like what I might want to have for a beach-read version of IJ . I should admit here that the book isn't a pure 5 stars for me. It's a four and a half, but I was feeling generous and wanted to get it to stand apart from the plethora of four star ratings I've been handing out lately. Another sort of aside: I think the author shouldn't have named a character Mario, even though the Mario character here is nothing like the IJ Mario there was minor confusion in my head sometimes. That is probably because I'm not so smart and easily obsessed trying to find DFW similarities in books. I said earlier that the book was all the fun without the work. That is kind of a lie. The book is lots of fun but it's also somewhat bleak at times. I find bleak to be on the fun side sometimes, but I wouldn't want someone to read this book based on my review and expect a laugh riot of silliness and absurdity. The book is basically about why a fourteen year old drops dead one Friday night in a donut shop (here is another IJ quality, the first chapter where the reader meets Hal in his ruined state, here we meet Skippy, who turns out to be a quite Hal-like, dead, but without a good reason given in that opening chapter of how he came to die on the floor of some donut shop). My big complaints with the book are all about the last book. I thought that certain parts of the story fell apart here, there was a sense of certain scenes being rushed and a feeling of finality was present, but it made me think, why does there need to be the answers and this kind of resolution to the book. It's not that the book becomes unenjoyable here it just felt like the beginning (first 2/3's) of the book didn't necessarily point to there being a need for the book to take the direction that it did. I don't know what I would have rather liked to have happened and the direction the book takes is fine it just felt like there is the need for a moral or something put on the end that doesn't need to be there. I still enjoyed it though, it's only when I try to think of the book as a whole that I start to have some problems with some of the decisions Murray made with the ending. ...more \u2018How telling it is,\u2019 he says in his sermon, shaking his illustrious golden-locked head, \u2018that Daniel\u2019s short life should come to its end in a restaurant devoted to doughnuts. For in some ways, is our modern way of life not comparable to one of these doughnuts? \u201cJunk food\u201d that satisfies only temporarily, that offers a \u201cquick fix\u201d, but has, at the center of it, a hole?\u2019 Doughnuts, alcohol, drugs, sex, tv, video games, exercise, goodreads --you name it -- we as a society have used it to try to fill \u2018How telling it is,\u2019 he says in his sermon, shaking his illustrious golden-locked head, \u2018that Daniel\u2019s short life should come to its end in a restaurant devoted to doughnuts. For in some ways, is our modern way of life not comparable to one of these doughnuts? \u201cJunk food\u201d that satisfies only temporarily, that offers a \u201cquick fix\u201d, but has, at the center of it, a hole?\u2019 Doughnuts, alcohol, drugs, sex, tv, video games, exercise, goodreads --you name it -- we as a society have used it to try to fill up that empty little hole in our centers, haven\u2019t we? I don\u2019t really know where to begin reviewing this book. How\u2019s about I begin by saying that whoever wrote the jacket copy for this book is a moron. If I were Murray, I would be pissed! Instead of making this book sound like a sort of poignant treatise on the failures of modern society (which it is) it makes it sound like an episode of \u2018Saved By the Bell.\u2019 Murray manages to write this heartbreaking yet heartwarmingly hilarious commentary on everything from infidelity to pedophilia, and it never seems preachy or hackneyed, and this moron doesn\u2019t touch on any of that. \u2018Hip-hop-loving Eoin \u2018MC Sexecution\u2019 Flynn? Who the flip is that? Caveat emptor, dear reader: ignore the jacket copy. Instead, read any of the stellar reviews on this site to get an idea of how this book can enrich your life. Because it can. Because it will. Interestingly enough, I read the majority of this book during a hurricane-induced power outage. Stripped away of any contact with the outside world, Murray\u2019s message took on a whole new meaning for me. We try to find so many different ways to distract ourselves from our feelings of \u201capartness,\u201d of distance from everyone else in the world. But the thing is, yes we are alone in many fundamental ways, but that is okay. It\u2019s okay to feel lonely; it\u2019s okay to feel lost. Everyone does at one time or another. The important thing is to FEEL it, instead of burying it or hiding. This book will show you the insanity that ensues from trying to fill our holes instead of accepting them. And then it will give you hope. ...more My sons attended a Boys School with the same traditions as Seabrook College with its 140 years of excellence. After reading the Spud Trilogy of John van der Ruit : Spud #1 The Madness Continues #2 and Learning to Fly #3 , I wanted to read Skippie Dies as well. In a way I felt I owed it to my sons to read these books, since they never shared everything with me. I knew they were not talking. Not that they were the totally innocent type at all. The books made me laugh and cry. They confirmed My sons attended a Boys School with the same traditions as Seabrook College with its 140 years of excellence. After reading the Spud Trilogy of John van der Ruit : Spud #1 The Madness Continues #2 and Learning to Fly #3 , I wanted to read Skippie Dies as well. In a way I felt I owed it to my sons to read these books, since they never shared everything with me. I knew they were not talking. Not that they were the totally innocent type at all. The books made me laugh and cry. They confirmed my suspicions, good and bad. Their dad was their confidant. I was jealous. They said mom had antennas they could not dodge. But they ain't talkin' anyway! So it was not only subjective intent with which I took this book on, and not only in loyalty to my own boys. I knew what to expect, but still ended up overwhelmingly grateful for reading this excellent masterpiece as a novel as well. I do not want to find the blas\u00e9 words to describe a book in which such a vast array of human traits were combined to end up with an in-depth exploration of the aspects of our own selves that name and shame us as a species. Besides, I have interviewed victims of horrific events taking place in similar schools, which makes the stories in this book look like a Sunday school picnic. The history teacher, Howard The Coward, had almost an obsession with WWI which had the Acting Principal (the 'Automator') in a tiff. But through his teachings, after observing the events taking place in the school, he used the WWI-period as a metaphor for what was really behind the fame and glory of the school. (view spoiler) [ \"It is a good example of how history works,\"Howard says. \"We tend to think of it as something solid and unchanging, appearing out of nowhere etched in stone like the Ten Commandments. But history, in the end, is only another kind of story, and stories are different from the truth. The truth is messy and chaotic and all over the place. Often it just doesn't make sense. Stories make things things make sense, but the way they do is to leave out any thing that doesn't fit. And often that is quite a lot. The men of \"D\" Company, like the other men who fought, found it out the hard way. They were told all kinds of stories to get them to join up, stories about duty and morality and defending freedom. Most of all, they were told what a great adventure it would be. When they arrived they discovered that none of these stories was true. Instead they had been lied to and plunged into the most brutal and barbarous mess in the world's history to that point. And the history that was told of that mess as dishonest as the stories that helped create it.\" (hide spoiler) ] Daniel Juster, or Skippy, dies in the beginning of the book. This opens up a hornet's nest of adolescent struggles with emotions, drugs, girls, parents, teachers and life in general. Teachers have their own skeletons in the closets, the parents do not have lily white morals either, the priests have their own secrets to hide. Most of them felt responsible, which slowly heats up the fire that will lead to the final big bang. And what an unbelievably dramatic ending it is! There's nothing new in the book. In fact, it got so boring that I wanted to just pack it away. So I read and slept, read and slept, and wondered which decade in future will get me finishing this book. However, I could not go there. I simply wanted to know it all, although much of the events was expected. What impressed me about the book was the way in which all the strings, and there were a multitude of sub-plots in the book, knotted together in the end. There were love, kindness and empathy. But there were also narcissism, greed,aspirations, egotism and brutality. So many ideas, philosophies, as well as religions, ancient and new, graced the pages. So much innocence lost the plot of life. Oh how it made me cry for our young people. The prose is often hilarious, witty, scatological, profound. If the book ended differently than it did, I would have burnt it! I would have felt violated, betrayed!- because I mourned the demise of Skippy and did not want him to die in vain. He did not. The story of a micro-cosmos of characters had my emotions jumping ship several times. Either being ravingly mad, or heart breakingly sad. No one will be able to close this book and walk away in apathy. It's not possible. Brilliant plot, brilliant writing !! ...more I am somewhat reluctantly abandoning this book. I feel a bit guilty about it, because I am not without curiosity about how all this meandering prose will resolve itself into a single theme. Or maybe it won't. But my guilt only carries me so far. Most of the blame here must be assumed by Mr. Murray. The narration is tedious and gloomy. The characters are bleakly hopeless. There are occasional references to things like cell phones, string thory, and computers, but I frequently felt the author had r I am somewhat reluctantly abandoning this book. I feel a bit guilty about it, because I am not without curiosity about how all this meandering prose will resolve itself into a single theme. Or maybe it won't. But my guilt only carries me so far. Most of the blame here must be assumed by Mr. Murray. The narration is tedious and gloomy. The characters are bleakly hopeless. There are occasional references to things like cell phones, string thory, and computers, but I frequently felt the author had roughly shifted a story from the mid-twentieth century and shoved it into a contemporaneous frame. Some of the blame, too, must go to the publisher or flogger or whoever wrote the delightful summaries I've read of this book. If the prose I've been wading through had even a scintilla of the lightness and precision of these enticers, I'd have read the whole book greedily and longed for more. I am clearly in the minority regarding Skippy Dies , but, despite my previously mentioned guilt, I leave it with an ever-lightening sense of relief --- ...more \u201c\u2026a string vibrating at one frequency will give you a quark, say, and a string vibrating at another frequency will give you a photon\u2026Nature is made of all the musical notes that are played on this superstring, so the universe is like a kind of symphony.\u201d ( Ruprecht, p. 152 ) It\u2019s been years since this book came out. It made such a big splash on its debut I feared it may be popular fiction of a type that doesn\u2019t interest me. I waited a little, had a peek, retreated. A big book in the vernacular of \u201c\u2026a string vibrating at one frequency will give you a quark, say, and a string vibrating at another frequency will give you a photon\u2026Nature is made of all the musical notes that are played on this superstring, so the universe is like a kind of symphony.\u201d ( Ruprecht, p. 152 ) It\u2019s been years since this book came out. It made such a big splash on its debut I feared it may be popular fiction of a type that doesn\u2019t interest me. I waited a little, had a peek, retreated. A big book in the vernacular of adolescent boys: a wave of exhaustion overcame me. Gradually I began to notice that many people whose reviews I follow were finding it an exceptional read. I took another look. No. Still couldn\u2019t ever seem to find the time to wade through the (what I am embarrassed to say I thought at the time) triviality of the thoughts of fourteen-year-olds. Wrong. The voice I had in my head as I read was inadequate to this opus. Out of frustration for my lack of understanding the significance of what others were enjoying, I bought the audio of this, performed with great brio, skill, and cognizance by Nicola Barber, Fred Berman, Clodagh Bowyer, Terry Donnelly, Sean Gormley, Khristine Hvam, John Keating, Lawrence Lowry, Graeme Malcolm, Paul Nugent, and produced by Audible, Inc. Suddenly I experienced what I had been missing. This has to be one of the best audiobook performances I have ever heard. The book is a symphony in four parts, but in the voices of these performers, it is a four-part spoken opera. It is broken into three parts in print and in audio, but make no mistake: This is music. It is Murray\u2019s attempt to reach those of us in alternate universes: \u201cThere is a certain amount of evidence that music of various kinds is audible in the higher dimensions\u2014\u201c( Ruprecht, p. 590 ) This is also a classic of literature, worthy of all the kudos heaped upon it, and many more besides. If I could place it next to another book of comparable stature, it would be Salinger\u2019s The Catcher in the Rye . Salinger\u2019s was slim and this is comparatively huge. But Murray makes his words count. The four parts are named after video games. I believe Hopeland is an invention of the author, but Skippy finds details in the game that seem to reflect his own challenges. The other game names may also be inventions, but there are real games out there with those names & the challenges sort of follow along with Skippy's. They may, however, have been created after, and as a result of the novel rather than having been referenced by Murray. Heartland (The Heartland has fallen under the rule of the ruthless tyrant Midan and his minions...); Ghostland (The blood elves applied the scorched earth policy to the woodlands...); Afterland (a traveling carnival of magical misfits in the afterlife). Every review I have seen mentions its size as a stumbling block. Pity. It takes days, weeks even, to get to it all, but after having lived with the boys and teachers of Seabrook College for some time now, I am convinced this tragicomic masterpiece is one of the great books of the new century. Funny, tragic, sad, true, and painfully revealing, it addresses major themes of our times and reminds us, with lacerating humor, just how it is to be young today. The ferociously hormonal boys central to the drama are engaged in the epic battle we all face but prefer to forget: how best does one grow up, today, in a world of global warming? To a fourteen-year-old, the gloom this question casts is rarely acknowledged but manages to shadow thoughts of the future. Murray captures the idiocy of youth, how they are so unsure of themselves, yet feel immortal at the same time. The cast of characters is positively Dickensonian. Murray peoples an embattled Catholic boarding school with an administration loathe to lose paying students to competitors yet fully aware and conspiratorially silent about the school\u2019s deficiencies. Teachers involved in personal dramas struggle to inspire the teens in their charge while warily watching and abetting the administration in their deceptions. But he is funny , really funny at the same time he is tearing your heart out with the stories of the boys trying to make their way in such a world. Howard, the history teacher, stays on the subject of the First World War for much of the term. The following riff could be taken for one of Murray's central themes, just by substituting global warming for WWI. \"In today's History class, Howard the Coward--who looks like he hasn't slept much lately, or washed, or shaved--wants to talk about betrayal .'That's what the war was really about. The betrayal of the poor by the rich, the weak by the strong, above all the young by the old. \"If any question why we died / Tell them because our fathers lied\" --that's how Rudyard Kipling put it. Young men were told all kinds of stories in order to get them to go and fight. Not just by their fathers of course. By their teachers, the government, the press. Everybody lied about the reasons for war and the true nature of the war. Serve your country. Serve the King, Serve Ireland...[Robert] Graves's friend Siegfried Sasson called the war \"a dirty trick which had been played on me and my generation\"...'\" And what of the White Goddess, who makes appearances throughout the story? The muse is an embodiment of the White Goddess, a cycle of desire and destruction. One will always desire her but one can never possess her lest she lose her power to inspire. Those that survive her ravishment will eventually pass to the Black Goddess who represents enduring, reciprocating love. A reader might take this to mean that if one manages to \"take the road less traveled by\" and overcome their desire for the ultimately meaningless trifles that are the result of 'wealth creation', one might finally reach a higher stage of consciousness featuring enduring love. \u201cAt the docks\u2026we saw\u2026the whole front half of a destroyer that had been completely crushed, like a car that had hit a telegraph pole at high speed\u2026we were told that it had been hit by a wave\u2014one wave, which came out of nowhere, crashed into the bow and smashed everything right back to the bridge\u2026What if the eleventh dimension was not a serene place, but a place of storms, with entire universes ripping through it like huge turbulent waves? Imagine the kind of cataclysm you\u2019d have if one of these white-wave universes collided into another universe\u2026\u201d (Professor Tomashi, p. 215) This is how I feel now, after having reviewed and revisited this work for some weeks. I feel quite as though a gigantic wave has crashed over me and Murray has broken through to another dimension. It is a fabulous experience\u2026Ruprecht would be happy. An interview with Paul Murray speaking to Jesse Montgomery gives us the mind of the author. He speaks the way he writes: he is funny, but he reminds us of the darkness surrounding us and our lives of plenty. \u201cI think the tragedy of the world at the moment is that it\u2019s more and more intent on turning us all into teenagers and making us long for this period in our life when we were totally at sea.\u201d He reminds us of responsibility: of our tendency to act the \u201ckidult\u201d when what we really need to do is, each of us, take personal responsibility for the world we have created. Jill Owens interviewed Murray for Powell\u2019s: \u201cThe only reality in our lives is loss, you know? The kids in the last part of the book are realizing that, and realizing that all the illusions they've been chasing are false, and the only real thing they have is each other\u2026But at the same time I think the ending has a certain amount of optimism to it, because even in the middle of this quite cynical system that they're in, these kids have made a valuable discovery, that they have friendship and they have this capacity to take care of each other.\u201d In Murray\u2019s book, Howard is one of the teachers who tells the boys what they need to pull together after Skippy dies. Speaking again of WWI and the men of \u201cD\u201d Company going to fight: \u201cThey had joined up as friends, and when they got out to the Front, when the grand words evaporated, the bond between them remained. That they stayed friends, that they looked out for each other, most agreed, was what kept them from cracking up altogether. And in the end was the only thing, was the one true thing, that was genuinely worth fighting for.\u201d ( Howard, p. 557 ) Murray: \u201cM-theory is so complex and it's so astonishingly intricate. It has the fascination of what's difficult, in the same way that drugs are fascinating, or music is fascinating\u2026At the same time, ultimately, they are leading you down a rabbit hole and they are leading you away from the world, and they are leading you away from people into this little narcissistic closed circuit.\u201d \u201cIt is the open-ended strings, the forlorn, incomplete U-shaped strings, whose desperate ends cling to the sticky stuff of the universe; it is they that become reality\u2019s building blocks, its particles, its exchangers of energy, the teeming producers of all that complication. Our universe, one could almost say, is actually built out of loneliness ; and that foundational loneliness persists upwards to haunt every one of its residents. ( Ruprecht, p. 301 )\u201d Murray was mum in 2010 about his next project, but he did give a few hints to LitBlog interviewer in April 2011 :\u201d\u2026I\u2019d like to write something short and funny. I think the central gag of it is that this French banker meets a writer and the banker is very sensitive and poetic and the writer is just looking for a quick buck. I think it\u2019ll be first person.\u201d There is more on his new project on a Farrar Strauss Giroux blog here . Pachelbel's Canon combines the techniques of canon and ground bass. Canon is a polyphonic device in which several voices play the same music, entering in sequence. In Pachelbel's piece, there are three voices engaged in canon, but there is also a fourth voice, the basso continuo, which plays an independent part. [Wikipedia] A fictional short story by Paul Murray published in The New York Times is not to be missed. In the story a young boy goes to school for the first time. As his father walks him to school, the son asks, \u201cDid you go to school, Dad?\u201d \u201cIf there is a substitute for love, it is memory.\u201d --Kipling \u201cMaybe instead of strings it\u2019s stories things are made of, an infinite number of tiny vibrating stories; once upon a time they all were part of one big giant superstory, except it got broken up into a jillion different pieces, that\u2019s why no story on its own makes any sense, and so what you have to do in a life is try and weave it back together, my story into your story, our stories into all the other people\u2019s we know, until you\u2019ve got something that to God or whoever might look like a letter or even a whole word\u2026\u201d ( Lori, p. 654 ) ...more Skippy Dies is an eager-to-please puppy. Now let me just say, I'm very sympathetic to the problems of an author: avoid cliches, show, don't tell, consistent characters that grow, realistic dialogue, active voice. Semicolons? Adjectives? and so on. I pat Skippy on its head and say good boy, you\u2019re really trying. And yet. Little Skippy , I like you well enough - but you do get on my nerves. Let\u2019s be clear: Skippy is not a dog. I mean that in every sense. It\u2019s pretty much a good story, though somewhat Skippy Dies is an eager-to-please puppy. Now let me just say, I'm very sympathetic to the problems of an author: avoid cliches, show, don't tell, consistent characters that grow, realistic dialogue, active voice. Semicolons? Adjectives? and so on. I pat Skippy on its head and say good boy, you\u2019re really trying. And yet. Little Skippy , I like you well enough - but you do get on my nerves. Let\u2019s be clear: Skippy is not a dog. I mean that in every sense. It\u2019s pretty much a good story, though somewhat predictable. You can practically visualize the storyboard and plotting, the hours at the keyboard, the googling for facts, theories, & histories (perhaps googling porn sites for the constant mindless sexual references). I felt like reading Skippy with a green eyeshade on, a large red crayon in hand, crossing out this and that, adding a question mark, circling paragraphs, making changes & suggestions. Yes we get string theory, Irish history, WWI, Gallipoli, info on drugs & medications, & how anorexia develops, tech info, and more - and it\u2019s all great to know - but often awkwardly stuck in, the characters sort of lecturing. So, 3.5 stars and a kick in the groin for creating the idiotic Mario Bianchi. ...more The juggler walks on stage to polite applause. He hasn\u2019t won us over yet, but he seems confident that he will. Somewhat surprisingly, he announces what the dramatic highpoint of his act will be before even starting. (view spoiler) [This book has nothing to do with juggling. It\u2019s a metaphor. And like the undaunted showman on stage, Murray tells us just a few pages in that Skippy will indeed die. (hide spoiler) ] Like all jugglers, he has his clich\u00e9d elements: rings, knives, a little fire maybe. (vi The juggler walks on stage to polite applause. He hasn\u2019t won us over yet, but he seems confident that he will. Somewhat surprisingly, he announces what the dramatic highpoint of his act will be before even starting. (view spoiler) [This book has nothing to do with juggling. It\u2019s a metaphor. And like the undaunted showman on stage, Murray tells us just a few pages in that Skippy will indeed die. (hide spoiler) ] Like all jugglers, he has his clich\u00e9d elements: rings, knives, a little fire maybe. (view spoiler) [Like most any Bildungsroman set in a Catholic boarding school, this one features sexual preoccupation, characters at the precipice, and the potential for growth. Oh, and maybe some perversion. (hide spoiler) ] But hopes are raised knowing the balls-aloft crowd nominated him for their big annual award. (view spoiler) [Well, this isn\u2019t really a spoiler, but I\u2019m on a roll with this peel and reveal thingy. Skippy Dies was long-listed for the 2010 Booker Prize. (hide spoiler) ] Then he begins proving his chops. He adds quality and quantity, complexity and pizzazz. There are flourishes galore \u2013 balls behind his back and through his legs, then bounced on the floor with blurring speed. (view spoiler) [This Murray guy is good, I\u2019m telling you. His characters are vivid, he writes convincingly from multiple points of view, and he keeps our attention for every one of his 661 pages. (hide spoiler) ] And there\u2019s never so much as a bobble. (view spoiler) [Uh, yea, no bobbles \u2013 never a word wrong. (hide spoiler) ] We can\u2019t help but be impressed when he keeps 7 balls going at once. (view spoiler) [With 7 POV characters, you\u2019d think there\u2019d be trouble, but with his hyper-adept pacing and skill, he somehow pulls it off. (hide spoiler) ] Applause, applause! This guy deserves his stay in Vegas. (view spoiler) [ Five big, indulgent stars! But remember, what happens in Goodreads, stays in Goodreads. (hide spoiler) ] Actually, these weren\u2019t really spoilers at all. I just saw Bird Brian use the sliding door to great effect in one of his recent reviews and thought it was fun and different. Getting back to Skippy, this book has plenty to recommend it. The characters seemed very real, the dialog was pitch perfect, the conflicts were plausible, and the writing was top-notch. I can\u2019t say whether it was plot-driven or character-driven because it was both. And it was funny. And sad. At times even thought-provoking. As we\u2019ve established, Skippy does die right at the start. The book then backtracks to tell us about the months leading up to that point. Skippy\u2019s roommate, Ruprecht, is also central to the story \u2013 an overweight genius with an abiding interest in string theory and all eleven of its abstract dimensions. A cross-section of other friends includes one who was idiosyncratic in his earnest good nature, one who was nobody\u2019s fool, and one who provided comic relief as a would-be Lothario (named Mario) who didn\u2019t catch the irony of a lucky condom he\u2019d been carrying for three years. Anyway, Skippy has conflicts (surprise, surprise). One is a dying mother, another is a dream girl at the neighboring school who is both out of his league and unaware of his existence. Besides that, she kind of has this thing going with bad-boy Carl who trades pills for affections. We get to know this cast of 14-year-olds well, with that odd mix of credulity and cynicism characteristic of the age. Adults are given full treatment, too. There\u2019s Howard (the Coward) who teaches history and lives with his American girlfriend Halley, who fell for him because he was \"Irish-looking, by which she meant a collection of indistinct features \u2013 pale skin, mousy hair, general air of ill-health \u2013 that combine to mysteriously powerful romantic \u00aceffect\". But Howard was also in the thrall of a substitute geography teacher, the alluring Aurelie (alliteratively speaking). She may have been a femme fatale, but she did inspire him to improve his classroom performance. One of the more poignant bits of the book was during an impromptu field trip where Howard told the boys about the WWI experiences of an Irish unit that had been renowned for their rugby prowess during school days only to find dramatic changes in their fortunes from the war as heroism was redefined in the wake of anti-English sentiment. Then there was Father Green (or Pere Vert as the boys called him). There\u2019s a murkiness about this guy which would be a true spoiler to reveal. Another, Greg Costigan, was an exceedingly political school administrator. He was so bad it was funny. Anyone who talks about the school \u201cbrand\u201d is meant to be a caricature, I figure. It\u2019s surprising he wasn\u2019t made out to be an American, one of the buzzword-wielding business-trained elite. The plot makes its way to these various characters very skillfully; never too fast, never too slow. We get fights, bravery, cowardice, boy meeting girl, and even a few flirtations with the supernatural (or might that be quantum physics, as only Ruprecht could possibly know). I won\u2019t go into the details because this is already too long, but I will say that any fears I had about jumping the shark (at the dance where Skippy meets Dream Girl) were off base. In Murray\u2019s capable hands, I ended up buying it all \u2013 the White Goddess, the Irish mythology, the weird science, the Druid drug dealer \u2013 all of it. Sadly, Skippy does die. But we\u2019re better people for knowing his story and the stories of those around him. Murray tells it so well. (view spoiler) [I just realized that a big part of this book\u2019s appeal for me is that I\u2019m not far removed from a 14-year-old mindset myself. This fixation I have with the spoiler feature is all the proof you need of that. (hide spoiler) ] ...more This book is a bit long. There are certainly good reasons for it but I do have Murray to blame for staying up all night to finish the last 200 pages of this book. Which, without a doubt, are enthralling. The length does several things (a comment that I'm sure the characters of the book would make a crass joke out of), but the most important is the slow roll of character development. As many others have pointed out, the book begins on pretty familiar territory. There are handfuls of coming-of-age This book is a bit long. There are certainly good reasons for it but I do have Murray to blame for staying up all night to finish the last 200 pages of this book. Which, without a doubt, are enthralling. The length does several things (a comment that I'm sure the characters of the book would make a crass joke out of), but the most important is the slow roll of character development. As many others have pointed out, the book begins on pretty familiar territory. There are handfuls of coming-of-age tropes and clich\u00e9s. But I think because of this familiarity Murray is able to really slap you across the face, when the drama hits hard. And you are sitting there going, \"wait what! Did that just happen?\" I.e. the p.o.v. of a lonely and sexually deprived Catholic Priest plus a little boy being called to his office. Need I say more? When I first began reading, I wrote this off as a well-written buildunsgroman. I must admit, I am a huge sucker for these stories. (see Black Swan Green, Stand By Me, Catcher in the Rye, Norwegian Wood, Rushmore, Submarine). It's a phase that I'm sure I'll grow out of, but I can't get enough of the first love, loss of innocence and teenage awkwardness that permeates in every one of these stories. This is largely what Murray focuses on for the first section of the book. There are plenty of laughs to be had here. Sure, there are many funny moments throughout the entire book (including, in my opinion the funniest scene, when the school's classical quartet initiates a negative feedback loop of Pachobel's Cannon in D into the PA system. The description of the ensuing aural chaos is hysterical). But Murray's layout of adolescent social customs and interactions are so spot on and gut-busting, I often completely forgot that this book was set in Ireland and not in the very high school I went to! I think that is what allows readers to keep plunging through this large book; Murray, while relying on typical teenage conventions, packs in humor and terrific writing to keep you wanting more. After he has established this as a basis for his story, he begins subtly applying layers onto the story. At one moment he drops in the second-person narration. Which, at first, feels like the colloquial \"you\", as in \"that's what happens when you do this.\" Then I began to notice that the \"you\" corresponded to a specific character and he continues with this motif throughout. It reminded me much of the self-conciousness of teenage years. When you constantly talk yourself through situations, like \"you need to stop being so nervous. Why are you acting this way.\" I felt like the content of the story earned Murray the right to use this narrative stylization without it being a gimmick. It also proved once again, that there is still fresh ground to cover in the field of teenage novels. Moreover, the \"you\" begins to place a strange distance between the character and the exposition so that Murray can continue to \"slip in\" other elements. Once you have accepted the second person, he begins throwing in details about serious family dysfunction. Family dysfunction isn't new to coming of age, but Murray takes it to the next level. The moment I realized that this book was not going to pull any punches was a scene involving fourteen year-old sex in exchange for drugs, followed by the drug dealer's father beating his mother. I shouldn't give away too much more about this book, but there will so many moments where you have to re-read paragraphs just because you don't believe what you have read. And the brilliance of it all is that it never feels forced or over-dramaticized. You believe this story. It is brutally honest and believable. So yes it's a bit long, but for a damn good reason. Plus, I'll never read Robert Frost's poetry sans a sexually depraved undertone ever again. ...more It's several months in the life of a boys' public school in Ireland. It is nothing like Harry Potter. It is chockablock with early teen angst and cruelty, and the particular vagaries of that age of life, which are so easily forgotten when the headiness of later adolescence closes in. And everyone's story is the most important story to them, and yet, we discover how different those stories are, and how stories are covered up and papered over, and different narratives installed in their place to m It's several months in the life of a boys' public school in Ireland. It is nothing like Harry Potter. It is chockablock with early teen angst and cruelty, and the particular vagaries of that age of life, which are so easily forgotten when the headiness of later adolescence closes in. And everyone's story is the most important story to them, and yet, we discover how different those stories are, and how stories are covered up and papered over, and different narratives installed in their place to make things seem neat and tidy and explainable to a board of investors and a bunch of angry parents. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more I discovered Skippy dies through Goodreads and it immediately caught my attention. I love novels dealing with perilous youth and growing up, novels dealing with school and academic life; when I learned that Skippy Dies follows the lives and adventures of a group of teenagers in an Irish boarding school, I was sold. Judging by ratings and reviews I even though that Skippy might enter the great canon of boarding school literature. School stories are a very British thing - they really kicked off af I discovered Skippy dies through Goodreads and it immediately caught my attention. I love novels dealing with perilous youth and growing up, novels dealing with school and academic life; when I learned that Skippy Dies follows the lives and adventures of a group of teenagers in an Irish boarding school, I was sold. Judging by ratings and reviews I even though that Skippy might enter the great canon of boarding school literature. School stories are a very British thing - they really kicked off after Thomas Hughes published his Tom Brown's Schooldays in 1857, which set the path for future works. Rudyard Kipling published his Stalky & Co in 1899, a collection of stories about the charismatic Stalky and his friends and their life at a boarding school for boys. Stalky marks a departure from the tone set by Hughes in Tom Brown : Tom made trouble every now and then but was basically a decent boy, one who stood up for the underdogs and befriended them, fighting bullies. What he didn't achieve in the classroom he made up for at the playing field. >i>Stalky is far from being sentimental or idealized: it openly presents sadism and bullying as they took place in British boarding school, letting readers peek into the darker side of the institutions which were supposed to protect and educate their children. The boys in Stalky engage in violence and bullying, and are especially cruel to cats. Critics accustomed to Hughes's boyish Tom Brown accused Kipling of not writing about boys, but about ugly little men, little beasts that could have only been dreamed up by a spoiled child made by the utterly brutal public school system. His work was described as vulgar, savage and vile; Cambridge's Concise History of English Literature (published in 1942) summed it up as An unpleasant book about unpleasant boys at an unpleasant school . Today, some readers see Stalky & Co as the only school novel which prepared its readers for real life. Although they originated and reached popularity in Britain, school stories are not exclusive to the isles. My personal childhood favorite is a series of novels published in my home country of Poland, and written by a man whose work all Polish children are familiar with - Jan Brzechwa . Brzechwa wrote a trilogy of novels about character known as Pan Kleks (Mr. Kleks, with Kleks being Polish for inkblot ). Mr. Kleks's name was Ambro\u017cy (try pronouncing it) and he was a creator and headmaster of a mysterious and magical Academy, open only for boys whose names begun with the letter \"A\". The Academy itself is located in an enormous park full of gorges and ravines and is hidden from the outside world with an enormous wall, which is full of doors locked with silver padlocks, and each opens to a new fable...these books have been written after the war, in the 40's and 60's, and to the best of my knowledge have not been translated into English. Which is a total shame - when I read them as a little tyke I thought that the intrigue was stellar and that suspense was through the roof, and that the author's imagination knew no bounds. I'm supposed to be all grown up now and haven't read these books in years - I'm fearful that I'd take the few happy moments of my childhood away if they wouldn't prove to be as fantastical and wonderful as I remembered them. Brzechwa was the first author whom I read and who thought about mixing the boarding school story with magical elements, but he's certainly not the most popular. In the late 90's a British (surprised?) author named J.K. Rowling single-handedly revived the genre with the first installment in what would be one of the most widely read and appreciated sagas of all time, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone . Rowling invented the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where she set the adventures of Harry, Ron, Hermione and their friends, and which captured the attention of the whole world, proving enormously successful with readers of all ages. I'm happy for Ms. Rowling's great success as it provided me with many pleasant hours and gave faith to many struggling writers across the globe; but at the same time can't help but be a bit sad for my beloved Jan Brzechwa, whose Mr. Kleks never even got a chance to enchant young readers the way Harry did. He did enchant for me, that he did - and I remember him. There's a reason why Hogwarts proved to be so popular with young readers. Kids love the idea of living away from their parents and following a completely different set of rules, with the school being an entirely new environment - a whole world - made just for them; they take delight in exploring it, pushing the boundaries and often crossing them, taking their first stabs at questioning authority, fighting it, and discovering what lies beyond. I very well remember the feeling when I realized that my parents made mistakes and bad decisions, and that life in our house was not perfect. I felt that a wall which was surrounding me since birth was cracked, and what was behind it was ugly. I was a very young boy and had lots to learn; I wished to attend a remote school like the boys in Brzechwa's novels did, but I never got the chance. I went through the public school system which Kipling's critics so despised, and like all kids everywhere I had to build my own wall. I'm still building it but then who isn't, and does it ever really stop? But I digress. Skippy Dies is a boy's book: it's a big, fat book about a group of teenagers in Seabrook College, a Catholic boarding school in Dublin. Although it originally started as a short story, ideas kept popping into the head of Paul Murray and it grew and grew. It took 10 years to write and originally was more than 1000 pages long, but Murray cut it to below 700. Skippy doesn't lie - the title character, Daniel \"Skippy\" Juster dies at a donut eating contest in the novel's opening scene. Skippy's death is as tragic as it is bizarre: why did Skippy end up dead at the floor of Ed's Doughnut House seen by all other participants? Was he trying to say something to his friends in his last moments? Murray rewinds his book, and for two of its three volumes ( Skippy was originally published as a set of three separate paperbacks) takes us through the events leading up to Skippy's death, and then shows us its aftermath on the community of Seabrook. Skippy, who is a rather passive boy, is just one of Murray's many characters; they're both juvenile young teens and adult teachers of Seabrook, but both groups seem to be equally lost and not sure of their sense of place in the world. One can accuse Murray of employing stereotypical characters but then anyone who has ever attended a school will recognize these boys from the pages: there's Ruprecht Van Doren, an overweight geek obsessed with string theory who wants to open a portal to another dimension; Mario, a teenage Lothario wannabe who carries a condom in his wallet because he's up all night to get lucky; there are also Geoff, Niall and other goofs. There's also Lori, a pupil of the neighboring's school for girls, whom Skippy sees throwing a Frisbee as he looks into Ruprecht's telescope and with whom he falls in love; there's also Carl, a teenage drug dealer and a thug who also has his eyes on her. The adult faculty is also an important part of this story: there's Howard Fallon, a history teacher nicknamed Howard The Coward because of an episode from his past which still haunts him; there's Father Green, the French teacher whose name the boys have translated as \"Pere-Vert\". Greg Costigan, the acting principal is known as Greg the Automaton because of his heated intention on modernizing what he sees to be a hopelessly dated school. The two adult female characters, Howard's American girlfriend Halley and the beautiful substitute geography teacher, miss Aurelie McIntyre. Halley seems to merely exist for Howard to slowly realize his disillusionment with the life he leads, while Aurelie seems to be almost mythologized and reduce to being a muse, a golden haired and lovely but ultimately fantastical maiden. To Murray's credit, the teenage Lori is a much better realized character than both adult women; it's a curious incident in what otherwise is a book which paints real attention to portray an extensive cast of varied characters. There's a lot of juvenile humor in this book (which is genuinely funny, at least for yours truly) but also of juvenile violence and juvenile, terrible cruelty. The boys relentlessly tease one another, harshly and insultingly; they are openly racist to a Vietnamese restaurant owner and take pure pleasure in damaging and disturbing his business and insulting him and his workers. These are things that many young boys - good boys, from good homes, not thugs - do every day, and which we refuse to believe and accept and would just rather brush under the rug. There's a sexual scene which is a homage to the ending section of Ulysses - that breathless pornography. But it also sags and slows down, and shows that while Murray clearly had lots of ideas he doesn't quite know what to do with such a wide array of them and how to organize them into a narrative which wouldn't be helplessly bogged down in certain sections. which then arrive at an ending which ties the lose ends all too neatly. The book shows that it was edited and shortened down; perhaps it would have been more coherent at its full uncut length of 1000 pages? We'll never know. In his review, Mike calls Skippy a YA novel for adults. Although sounding like a contradiction, this might actually be the best way to describe this novel. It has ideas, it has juveniles, it's not slow but it's not fast, it certainly is not for younger kids but it's certain to wear some adult readers down, and they might not even finish it. It's a very difficult book to rate - in the end I chose to give it four stars, but mostly for the author's ambition and great talent at recapturing the way young boys behave, but not so much for what turned out of his work. Skippy Dies is not bad. It really isn't - but what bothers me is that it could have been great , but lost its real potential somewhere between string theories and fart jokes. ...more Skippy Dies is a mystery. Much less and not really of the \u201cwho dunit\u201d variety, but it\u2019s a mystery of life. A fairly common complaint among reviewers is that it\u2019s too long, but after it\u2019s over it\u2019s hard to imagine what to cut out. I also agreed that it compares to A Catcher in the Rye (in spite of the vast difference in size) in that you\u2019ve learned and are changed by the reading, but it\u2019s near impossible to put it in words. Since I\u2019m not a literature expert, I was confused by the new (to me) cate Skippy Dies is a mystery. Much less and not really of the \u201cwho dunit\u201d variety, but it\u2019s a mystery of life. A fairly common complaint among reviewers is that it\u2019s too long, but after it\u2019s over it\u2019s hard to imagine what to cut out. I also agreed that it compares to A Catcher in the Rye (in spite of the vast difference in size) in that you\u2019ve learned and are changed by the reading, but it\u2019s near impossible to put it in words. Since I\u2019m not a literature expert, I was confused by the new (to me) categories. Is this \u201ccreative nonfiction\u201d, since it has so much actual science, popular references? I don\u2019t understand how some called this \u201cmagic realism\u201d, as the mythology references were quite a small part of the book, overall, including, even, Ruprecht\u2019s attempts to communicate with the dead. Perhaps MR as conceived by the literary includes unknown aspects of scientific study, and that term was broadened to mean the epistemology of physics. Certainly that was a common concern in Ruprecht\u2019s thinking, and does sits at the junction of realism and idealism. I\u2019d also not come across the description of the \u201ctragicomic\u201d book, but that fits here. Indeed, the jokes made you laugh out loud and so often, even though the jokes were more ordinary and some almost corny - although with exquisite timing. It wasn\u2019t the \u201cblack\u201d, witty, edgy, or deprecating humor that generally makes me laugh that often. It was the easy nature of the joke that prepared you for the onslaught of epiphany and power that came between. Perhaps such jokes help \u201clower our guard\u201d, so the next serious activity was stronger in impact. Indeed, humor and seriousness were not combined, but thematically sequential, sometimes in quick time, and sometimes more slowly. Maybe it wasn\u2019t wise to jump back into major fiction with a 600+ pages that is compared to Pynchon and Franzen in complexity (not that I\u2019ve read either - yet). I do think it was the audiobook format that caught and held my attention (for almost a 24 hours\u2019 worth of narration) during and a bit after a cross-country road trip July \u201816. The audiobook is highly recommended. This was my first \u201cbook on tape\u201d and it was a revelation in how much I enjoyed it. I was stunned when I saw how many hours I\u2019d have to dedicate to it, and just that made me think of the paradox of time, and how we spend it especially when we\u2019re aware of making it as meaningfully as possible. Reading in hard copy takes about half the time, no? Makes me also reflect on \u201cinformation overload\u201d (coined by the recently departed sociologist-futurologist Toeffler) and how we judge the value of time. Months later, I can still conjure up the voice of the narrator, and think I may always will. I\u2019m not sure if that\u2019s the wonderful tenor, pacing, and timing of the voice, or that from the voice came so many powerful phrases and ideas. War and sex-segregated prep schools are both \u201cwomanless worlds\u201d, and are meant to horrify, brutally separate, reify, codify. My male partner listed to the audio by my side, and it did pain him a bit to remember his own boy\u2019s preparatory school, a well-known one in Northern New England. He recalled similar homophobia including experiencing taunts for a year after he was \u201ccaught\u201d looking at a book with his roommate while sitting besides him on his bed. It made him terribly sympathetic to gays and lesbians the rest of his life. It is as if during a certain age of boys the entire quest is denying any potential homophobic yearnings as much as Mario hallucinated up a busy sex life. My partner realized, even at the age of Skippy and his pals, it wasn\u2019t good, or right, or \u201cnatural\u201d to suddenly go from co-education grade school, where boys and girls learn to know and accept they\u2019re going to be in the world together, to a sex-segregated prep school, with artificially pre-arranged \u201cgroup dates\u201d with a nearby girl\u2019s prep school. He protests his relationships with women were twisted from that experience clear through his entire Yale undergraduate days before females were other than the Other, as it were, again. In a fascinating interview with Murray in Paris Review http://www.theparisreview.org/blog/20... Murphy sympathizes with how difficult life as teens may be, to try to mature in all ways without clear, desirable, or constant guideposts, and says of gender: \u201cMy school was a boys\u2019 school; there were no girls, so life really felt kind of pointless in that regard. You\u2019ve got these huge sexual transformations happening, but if there are no girls, obviously all the energy is just going to be turned into brutalizing whoever is smaller than you.\u201d Is this why, while females obviously bully, the rate for bullying in boys is twice the rate in high schools? It was disheartening to me, though, in the same interview, that Murray notes that his old school chums get together and \u201cwe do regress really quickly\u2014it\u2019s kind of scary\u2014to our teenage state and talk in a not hugely dissimilar way to the kids in the book\u201d, and that was disheartening to me. Is this why some manly men (who are definitely not gay) have Man Caves, to work out their homophobia with their bros? As much as I loved this book, it was psychologically bruising to hear the casual slurs of \u201cgay\u201d and \u201cfag\u201d said literally hundreds of times. I know it\u2019s also a giggle when the word \u201cgay\u201d becomes noun, verb, adjective, and adverb, and likely that lowered my defenses and left me more vulnerable to the sting, as I waited for homophobia among the boys to be addressed or reckoned with, but it never was. Contrast that with the nonchalance towards sexual impropriety among adults trusted to protect the children. Indeed, I was also on edge waiting for sexual abuse to enter the plot once I realized it was a parochial school with priests \u2013 on guard and expectant for it although wishing it would never come. I agreed with one comment that the boys, themselves, were tortured participating in the gay-bashing almost as much as those that were on the receiving end. Do we really never have more than an \u201cinner teenager\u201d, Murray asks in the Paris Review, one from which we never evolve and instead just \u201clearn to keep him (sic) quiet\u201d? There was a psychological article decades ago on denial and responsibility that wondered why the largest Holocaust museum was in D.C., and not in Germany, and why D.C. didn\u2019t have the largest museums on Native Americans, for example? (Now D.C. does have a Native American museum \u2013 and it\u2019s a fabulous one, but it took a long time). The author of the article sardonically asked whether perhaps we should be less concerned about freeing our \u201cinner child\u201d than getting more in touch with the \u201cinner adult\u201d within. Also in the 80s (and it\u2019s shocking to recollect this was pre-social media) Josh Meyowitz, a Communications professor, wrote about the impact of television and said that it had already produced kid-like adults and adult-like kids, e.g., adults watch cartoons and kid shows (Simpson\u2019s) and we subject children to adult themed situations on shows they see with their parents as well as unsupervised. Murray rips us open existentially by showing us how the line between child and adult is always blurred, but perhaps it is getting more so. He shows us that sometimes the thinking and behavior of the 14 year old is indistinguishable from the 25 and older group. We older people come to respect the thinking of a 14 year old, and we should listen to them as Murray shows us they\u2019re all calling out for help. However, how can adults help them, when there is not a single, solitary example of anything approaching a \u201chealthy\u201d adult portrayed? (Did I miss one? Howard was the only one with adult potential, it seemed.) Ruprecht with his French horn is frustrated as he knows there is something wrong with how the song is going, but doesn\u2019t know how to fix it. Similarly, so often with life, we guess he is thinking, or maybe it\u2019s just us, now, working the metaphors after Murray got us going. We are reminded, as educators and scientists among other readers, that both schools and physics have a tenuous \u201cfabric of society\u201d that is needed to hold them together, therefore both the process of schooling under post-modernity as well as the physical universe are slowly unraveling. Because it\u2019s part of my academic work life I particularly loved hating the \u201cacting\u201d administrator at the school. The administration of the school is disturbingly similar to the de-evolution of perhaps all human bureaucracies but certainly apparent in those of K-16 schools in the U.S.. Murray recollects the similarities with his own, quite similar, boys\u2019 prep school in Ireland and how the focus was on grades, not learning, and on getting lucrative careers, not making a meaningful life. Back to the Paris Review interview, Murray speaks of how Ireland became a \u201ccruel\u201d place and especially for those \u201cmarginalized\u201d groups during it\u2019s own economic boom and bust, leaving the materialistic consumerism he grossly details in his writing as the goal of the work ethic as it\u2019s own reward and punishment. Murray says that Ireland adopted a \u201cvery American model of capitalism\u201d that has, likewise with neoliberal global capitalism, now left the Ireland \u201ccompletely destitute.\u201d Shades of Schooling In Capitalist America: Educational Reform And The Contradictions Of Economic Life were throughout this work \u2013 how education reproduces the ideologies (destructive) and behaviors (likewise, and soul-sucking) in our children and students, the future \u201cbrick in the walls\u201d (from the Pink Floyd refrain featured in the book). I did love the student questioning whether Jesus is a zombie. ...more Bought this today as an \"OMG congratulations on being 31 and finally getting a real job\" reward. It better be worth it; even at the Strand it was $14. Real job does not equal real money on the first day, turns out. ** Holy balls this book is so good. I put it #1 on my CCLaP best-of-2011 ! Here's what I said about it there: This is a straight-up, no nonsense, trickery-free whirl of a novel. It takes place in an Irish boys' school, following a whole group of tween boys, as well as many of their teache Bought this today as an \"OMG congratulations on being 31 and finally getting a real job\" reward. It better be worth it; even at the Strand it was $14. Real job does not equal real money on the first day, turns out. ** Holy balls this book is so good. I put it #1 on my CCLaP best-of-2011 ! Here's what I said about it there: This is a straight-up, no nonsense, trickery-free whirl of a novel. It takes place in an Irish boys' school, following a whole group of tween boys, as well as many of their teachers, through a month or so in real time, but with scads and scads of backstory. It's filled with incredibly drawn characters, slippery dicey morality, bad bad luck and timing, the howling chaos of lived lives. There are so many chances for Murray to take the easy way out -- becoming corny, melodramatic, or needlessly devastating -- but he hews instead to something that approaches real truth, actions and dialogue and characters that remain consistently, utterly believable, and it's therefore all the more crushing when they fall. ...more Rating: one bazillionth of one star out of five (p19) Oh dear GAWD please please please send plagues of boils and masses of ingrown back hairs and painful rectal itch upon the next writer, editor, and publisher to think the adolescent Irish boys are worthy of ANY MORE ATTENTION!! Enough already, no more, basta, and just F*CKING STOP IT! This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License . It\u2019s not you, Skippy Dies , it\u2019s me. I\u2019d heard nothing but praise for this book before I started it. Almost all of my Goodreads friends who\u2019ve reviewed it have given it five stars. Nearly all of the top-rated reviews on Goodreads give it five stars. It was nominated for various awards, including the Booker (well, it was longlisted at least). Apparently, it\u2019s one of Donna Tartt\u2019s favourite books. So you can imagine that I had high hopes for this one, and started it with absolute optimism that it wa It\u2019s not you, Skippy Dies , it\u2019s me. I\u2019d heard nothing but praise for this book before I started it. Almost all of my Goodreads friends who\u2019ve reviewed it have given it five stars. Nearly all of the top-rated reviews on Goodreads give it five stars. It was nominated for various awards, including the Booker (well, it was longlisted at least). Apparently, it\u2019s one of Donna Tartt\u2019s favourite books. So you can imagine that I had high hopes for this one, and started it with absolute optimism that it was bound to become a favourite. The story is set at an Irish Catholic boys' boarding school, Seabrook, and charts the interlocking lives of a number of characters. There's the titular Skippy, aka Daniel Juster, a troubled young boy who - you won't be surprised to learn - dies; his friends, notably the overweight and frighteningly intelligent Ruprecht van Doren; Carl, a drug-addled boy in the year above who is 'in love' with Lori, a student from the neighbouring girls' school, who also happens to be the object of Skippy's affections; Howard, the boys' history teacher, who is obsessed with a female colleague and haunted by memories of a traumatic incident by his own days at Seabrook. The narrative weaves around these characters in a mix of third and second person voices, which vary hugely depending on which character is in the spotlight. It\u2019s all very well-written, incredibly clever, and doesn\u2019t put a foot wrong as far as themes and plotting are concerned. It\u2019s also very amusing - laugh-out-loud funny in places and darkly comic in others. So what went wrong? The main barrier was that I liked almost none of the characters. Skippy and Ruprecht are just about the only likeable people in the story. The boys were mostly funny, and definitely true-to-life, but I found the girls horrendous (perhaps they were too reminiscent of people I loathed at that age?), and the adults... I can't emphasise enough how much I detested Howard (appropriately nicknamed 'the Coward'), which was a significant problem since he was the adult protagonist. Aurelie, the object of his affections/lust, was equally infuriating - such a contrived fantasy figure I would have thought she was a figment of Howard's imagination if there hadn't been scenes with other characters speaking to her. Such was my dislike for these characters that I delayed reading for as long as possible whenever I knew a chapter involving them was coming up. Then there's the dreadful headmaster, the positively Satanic Father Green, psychotic Carl, and supporting characters in various shades of horrible. I totally understand that the awfulness of these people is a part of the story (although I'm not convinced I was supposed to hate Howard as much as I did) but for whatever reason, rather than making it entertaining to me, this just made me keep wishing I was reading something else. I did find that the book picked up towards the end. The description of the boys' changed world following Skippy's death was beautifully done, and I even felt a bit sorry for Howard (despite the fact that he was still being a spineless idiot, and (view spoiler) [I agreed far more with what Greg and Aurelie said to him than with Howard's own viewpoint; and he may have had good intentions in teaching the boys about a forgotten part of their history, but he's supposed to be a TEACHER, and veering so far away from the curriculum - which was mainly just because of his obsession with Aurelie anyway! - was a ridiculous thing to do (hide spoiler) ] ). The fact that Howard (view spoiler) [didn't end up with Aurelie - THANK GOD - and didn't get Halley back either (hide spoiler) ] made me happy. I liked the fact that the ending did everything but tie the story up neatly, even if some of the resolutions were quite horrifying. It's hard not to see the story as an indictment of this type of education, especially since Murray was a student at an all-boys Catholic school himself. Ultimately I'm finding it difficult to put my finger on what made Skippy Dies such a hard slog to get through (it took me a month and a half to read, almost unheard of for me), which forces me to conclude that the problem is with me as a reader, not the book itself. This book and I just weren't compatible with each other. This was a big reminder that books can't just be sorted into 'good' and 'bad' - there will always be someone who hates even the most revered classic, and there will always be plenty of readers who adore the most dreadful examples of 'literature' imaginable. I'm saying all this because I really do not want to put anyone else off reading Skippy Dies , and apart from the dreadfulness of Howard, I can't find anything really negative to say about it. It simply wasn't right for me. ...more I find growing up such a strain, partly since I\u2019ve hit my middle twenties and I can\u2019t seem to get on with it. All the routines of life\u2014unemployment, infidelity, alcoholism\u2014I look upon with wry amusement, as mere targets for my satiric inner child to mock from my ivory tower. This novel paints a cynically accurate portrait of teenagehood (at least among rich Catholic kids) as texting thugs driven by spite, sex and sleeping pills. And the adults too are misguided souls, aimlessly searching for an I find growing up such a strain, partly since I\u2019ve hit my middle twenties and I can\u2019t seem to get on with it. All the routines of life\u2014unemployment, infidelity, alcoholism\u2014I look upon with wry amusement, as mere targets for my satiric inner child to mock from my ivory tower. This novel paints a cynically accurate portrait of teenagehood (at least among rich Catholic kids) as texting thugs driven by spite, sex and sleeping pills. And the adults too are misguided souls, aimlessly searching for an elusive whatever in a disappointing and cold world. But for the duration, Skippy Dies is a manic not-really-coming-of-age-at-all novel written in a range of delicious close third-person narratives, flipping between breathless teenage babble, a convenient scientific genius (helps add cosmic heft), and an adult pedagogue with a wandering penis. The sublime comic energy that infuses this novel guides the reader through its giddying 600+ density, through its crass humour, teenage theatrics, comic caricature, towards the unusual ending where it withers into oblivion like the sequel to Carrie . Now back to my miserable life . . . ...more Damn good, despite obstacles: a little overfamiliar in its coming-of-age business, a little irritating in its perspectival caprices. But the book is consistently smart and enjoyable over its 600+ pages; better yet, it's a nimble shapeshifter, fluctuating between comedy and tragedy, levity and profundity, without weakening either tonal pole or making too much mess. Murray manages to go deep and go sad without sacrificing the book's breezy, buoyant momentum. Not an easy trick to pull off, and he d Damn good, despite obstacles: a little overfamiliar in its coming-of-age business, a little irritating in its perspectival caprices. But the book is consistently smart and enjoyable over its 600+ pages; better yet, it's a nimble shapeshifter, fluctuating between comedy and tragedy, levity and profundity, without weakening either tonal pole or making too much mess. Murray manages to go deep and go sad without sacrificing the book's breezy, buoyant momentum. Not an easy trick to pull off, and he deserves a lot of credit for making it work. (I should note that whatever problems I may have had with the book are partly traceable to the contextual whiplash caused by a couple of detours I took to other novels while in the middle of this one, namely Jesse Ball's mind-tickling Samedi the Deafness and Tom McCarthy's mind-blowing Remainder . These terrific novels so stimulated my brain that Skippy 's lunges for my heart didn't always land.) The book also got me thinking, in a peculiar way, about genre. When J.D. Salinger wrote The Catcher in the Rye half a dozen decades ago, he couldn't have predicted that he'd be launching a full-blown Genre -- as codified, artificial and durable as the black-hat western or the hard-boiled mystery. I realize that a long tradition of bildungsromans preceded Catcher , but modern practitioners of the coming-of-age story owe a major debt to Salinger that they don't really owe to, say, Studs Lonigan , so I think it's safe to diagnose Holden Caulfield as Patient Zero of this particular strain. While I was reading Skippy Dies , I went to see Richard Ayoade's Submarine , a pretty good coming-of-age film that gooses the genre with just enough stylistic brio and critical self-awareness to feel fresh rather than rehashed. Other neo-Holden narratives are less resourceful: I skipped The Art of Getting By (released just one week after Submarine opened in Chicago!) but A.O. Scott dismissed it (and the overexposure of the genre in question) with this awesomely acidic opening line: \"Someday every overprivileged, misunderstood high school boy who has ever come of age in New York will have his own movie, and one good thing about The Art of Getting By is that it brings that day, the day we can move on to other matters, a little closer.\" That's a great zinger, but it also speaks to the weariness (and wariness) that many of us feel toward this familiar narrative pattern, whether on the page or the screen. The fallacy of the coming-of-age story is its denial of what should be an obvious truth: human beings \"come of\" every age. It's not like you turn 25 and suddenly have it all figured out. (I should know, having turned 25 last month and feeling less wise than ever.) We're constantly adapting and trying to figure out just what the hell we're supposed to be doing. That condition is not unique to adolescence, and the pernicious fictions of this genre may be the ones that pretend otherwise. One reason why Rushmore was and is such a revelatory jumpstart to this genre is its implicit suggestion that Bill Murray's character has been puttering around for the last 30 years under the same shroud of foggy delusion and melancholy as the film's teenage protagonist. See also The Squid and the Whale 's emphasis on the complicatedly assholish father and the tension generated by the son's possible -- but not yet definite -- inheritance of said assholish qualities. I guess what I'm saying is that a good coming-of-age story makes room for something larger than itself, something beyond the well-established micro-verities of Teens Learning About Life & Love as represented by that meaningless yet unforgettable Blink-182 refrain, \"I guess this is growing up.\" Skippy Dies , more overtly than most narratives of its ilk, strives for this sense of something bigger than teen angst. Something really bigger, as in, like, cosmic , looking toward a multidimensional theory of the universe called \"M-theory\" , as well as obscure histories of the first world war. Characters' private obsessions provide our access to these expansions, while Murray does a nice job of drawing them into the text with parallels and thematic resonance without being overly transparent. There's further expansion in the large cast of characters, sometimes excessively so: Murray perhaps foolhardily insists on limning the consciousnesses of nearly everyone who plays even a minor role in the drama. There were too many occasions, throughout my reading, when I wanted Murray to quit hovering around a single character's perspective and retreat to the God's-eye POV he uses too sparingly; the book is never better than when Murray steps back and provides an all-seeing overview of the boarding-school community at large. (See the chapter from pages 277-280, about the boys' preparations for a concert audition, for a sterling example of what I wanted more of.) But Murray seems determined to pose the question of just who exactly is coming of age here, and when it works, this wide-net-casting does help him transcend the limitations of the genre -- sort of. Even with the expansions, there's very little here that's new or surprising; but even without the expansions, Murray's sharp wit and perspicacity would probably still carry Skippy to the finish line with charm and wisdom to spare. He sings a familiar song but adds a few verses, tweaks the lyrics so they're funnier, throws in a weird bridge, and croons in a voice that could shame a nightingale. Still, he adopts too many other voices along the way, and none of them can quite sing loud enough to drown out the choral drone of genre. But that's no big deal, really. I guess this is growing up. ...more I hadn't expected to like Skippy Dies. Literary novels haven't attracted my interest for some time now---since, say, The Unbearable Lightness of Being and several works by Cormac McCarthy , all read and loved a long time ago. Frankly, many literary tomes can seem tedious or pompous or both. I relish strange new worlds with unfamiliar landscapes such as those written by China Mi\u00e9ville and more recently, the mind-blowing The Quantum Thief . That said, how in the world did Paul Murray pull me into Sea I hadn't expected to like Skippy Dies. Literary novels haven't attracted my interest for some time now---since, say, The Unbearable Lightness of Being and several works by Cormac McCarthy , all read and loved a long time ago. Frankly, many literary tomes can seem tedious or pompous or both. I relish strange new worlds with unfamiliar landscapes such as those written by China Mi\u00e9ville and more recently, the mind-blowing The Quantum Thief . That said, how in the world did Paul Murray pull me into Seabrook College for Boys with a starring cast of pubescent critters? Raging hormones are predicable and single-minded, so why bother with clumsy sexual fixations when there are so many more interesting tales to read? Well, Paul Murray described a world with those alien creatures that was fascinating in variety and complexity such as exists in each human heart, which is, after all, albeit familiar, still in need of exploration and explanation. A plethora of topics unfold, such as how love can be fueled by illusions that stem from neediness, which often has little to do with reality. And then there's string theory! Interestingly, I saw the characters as worlds unto themselves, but woven together such that pulling one small thread such as the diminutive Skippy can wreck and heal the lives of children and adults alike. --All this and more, laughter and pain found in beautiful, profound writing that won me over rather early. The writing was magnificent in places and the overall structure of the plot and subplots were expertly handled. I found myself reading 'just one more chapter' well into the night. And to think, all that marvel takes place in a boys school---as good a center of the universe as any, I now admit. ...more http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4cP26n... Christmas Canon (after Pachelbel\u2019s Canon) -Trans-Siberian Orchestra \u201cLife has its own hidden forces which you can only discover by living.\u201d -S\u00f8ren Kierkegaard, Danish philosopher (1813 - 1855) \u201cMaybe instead of strings it\u2019s stories things are made of, an infinite number of tiny vibrating stories; once upon a time they all were part of one big giant superstory, except it got broken up into a jillion different pieces, that\u2019s why no story on its own makes any sen http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4cP26n... Christmas Canon (after Pachelbel\u2019s Canon) -Trans-Siberian Orchestra \u201cLife has its own hidden forces which you can only discover by living.\u201d -S\u00f8ren Kierkegaard, Danish philosopher (1813 - 1855) \u201cMaybe instead of strings it\u2019s stories things are made of, an infinite number of tiny vibrating stories; once upon a time they all were part of one big giant superstory, except it got broken up into a jillion different pieces, that\u2019s why no story on its own makes any sense, and so what you have to do in a life is try and weave it back together,\u2026\u201d -Skippy Dies Angst, that amorphous feeling of dread, has its balance in tragicomedy and metaphysical hope. Teenage angst, most of all, is defining in its shattering of illusion, its realization that the world is only grey, and that there is no real answer. In this thoroughly entertaining and achingly poignant book, Paul Murray managed to weave an elegant allegorical fabric of the cosmos in which the mathematical system of classical music is the perfect mode of communication. Yet this quantum world is heartbreakingly chaotic in the macro world of students in a prep school, its faculty members and the employees of a donut shop. It\u2019s a multiverse where particles connects and vibrates in a symphonic movement of banality and hope. Highlighted are the painful lives of the troubled Daniel \u201cSkippy\u201d Juster, the wishful Ruprecht Van Doren, and the regretful Howard. The story takes place in Seabrook, a Dublin private school composed of hormonal teenage boys, in particular a group of 14-year-old friends. This world of privileged children and haunted faculty members is full of vivid characterization and dark humor, with the sex-obsessed Mario proudly touting his three-year-old unused lucky condom, Ruprecht\u2019s foibles in his search for a way to the other universe, and male infatuations with schoolgirl Lori and Geography substitute teacher Aurelia McIntyre. There is also a villain in the form of drug dealer Carl, Skippy\u2019s sociopathic rival for Lori. Underlying this symphonic movement with its variation of voices is the poignant bass of the lost Skippy. Murray masterfully integrates a large number of point of views, from the students to the employees of the donut shop, seamlessly moving from third person to first person, from trite musings to deep insight, and from humorous to tragic. All this with a curious mixture of humor, tragedy and hope. The personal stories are not only about teenage angst, but also about the Seabrook faculty members. The adult Seabrook staff members are no less lost in their navigation through life. \u201cHoward the Coward\u201d Fallon, the history teacher, drifts through a life of disappointments; Gregory L. Costigan, the economics teacher and acting Principal, is obsessed with the business side of running the school; Father Jerome Green, the scary French teacher atoning for a past sin, is an overachiever of altruistic accomplishments; and Tom Roche, former star athlete and swim coach, has a life that is tragically intertwined with Howard\u2019s disappointments. The plot starts out with the big bang, the death of Daniel \u201cSkippy\u201d Juster after he scrawled with donut jelly, \u201cTELL LORI\u201d, for Ruprecht to tell Lori that he loves her. Death and tragic love sets the tone for a story that accelerates into a revelation of everyone\u2019s imperfect universe. In this ever changing and interacting donut shaped universe, things manifest in time and goes back into the fold. We are swept up in this canon of unrequited loves, loneliness in a crowd, and the tortured decision to tow the line or be true to oneself. Skippy Dies is a M\u00f6bius strip with the teenage Skippy\u2019s story balancing the adult Howard\u2019s story. Both are tainted by a defining shaming moment that would cause them to badly cope with the emotional impact, Skippy through a numbing drug haze, Howard through living his life in safe banality, avoiding confrontation. Both Skippy and Howard endured distracting infatuation with unattainable princesses. Besides risking his fragile ego, Skippy risks a dangerous encounter with Carl, his rival for Lori\u2019s affections. Howard risks the safety of his mundane relationship with his girlfriend and his stale job as a history teacher to follow the giddiness of an adolescent infatuation with Aurelia. For all their bravery in trying to attain their princesses, the failed knights suffer defeat in a world of amorphous grey dragons that can never be lanced and defeated. Whereas Skippy managed to escape to the other universe via death, Howard lives on in this universe facing the repercussions of a life disappointing himself and others. Both tainted knights who care too much in an uncaring world ultimately were destroyed by the amorphous dragon. Both Skippy and Howard\u2019s cowardice reverberated through others. After Skippy\u2019s self-destruction, Ruprecht\u2019s grief turned into obsession with finding the portal into another universe that has the answers. Lori, Skippy\u2019s love interest, aim to slowly disappear from this universe. In a further demonstration of the entanglement of vibrating strings, Howard\u2019s cowardice reverberated through time affecting Skippy in the form of the tragic ex-superstar Tom. Murray deftly creates a believably surrealistic effect that combines a quantum world with the macro world, as time slows for the drugged Skippy as he muses how the painkillers can help him in his travel to another universe. After Skippy made his successful journey through the black hole of death, Ruprecht\u2019s search for a way to the other universe grew to a desperate intensity that results in a humorous adventure as the boys break into the girl\u2019s school to seek the perfect point of entry to the other universe. What emerges is a hilarious sequence that ends with Rupert and his quartet sending a message to Skippy via the aching hybrid of the hopeful Pachelbel\u2019s Canon and the idealistic BETHani song, \u201cIf I had three wishes I would give away two, Cos I only need one, cos I only want you.\u201d Split into four movements, Hopeland, Heartland, Ghostland, and Afterland, Skippy Dies is a verbal symphony about the need to make sense of a chaotic world in which there is no clear good or bad, the vortex of change is unceasing, and nobody wins. What could be a Bildungsroman, full of laughable awkward moments of the foibles of self-discovery, ends up giving the impression that there is no answer or panacea to life\u2019s difficulty. It is about self-delusion, the lifting of the veils of delusion, and the self-preserving need to go back into the delusional world. Sadly, it is also about the destruction of those who cannot hang on to the iron armor of illusion. ...more What do you say about a guy who can kill off his main character in the first two pages, then proceed to lead you by the nose through some six hundred pages more, pages in which you feel your heart palpitate, your fingers clinch, your scalp tighten, your teeth grind, your legs tremble? Can you hear me strumming On the strings of your heart? Have you ever wanted to sit down right after finishing a good book and with a handheld loudspeaker as big as the earth sing into the cosmos just how good it What do you say about a guy who can kill off his main character in the first two pages, then proceed to lead you by the nose through some six hundred pages more, pages in which you feel your heart palpitate, your fingers clinch, your scalp tighten, your teeth grind, your legs tremble? Can you hear me strumming On the strings of your heart? Have you ever wanted to sit down right after finishing a good book and with a handheld loudspeaker as big as the earth sing into the cosmos just how good it is, only to find that when you finished, which was a tenacious battle in itself, what with the people ringing the doorbell, people ringing the phone, people asking you questions, people talking about the latest tennis star they want to have sexual relations with, people who say, \"You know what? You oughta talk to Dr. Tree (changing names to protect the not-so-innocent, his real name is Busch, in case you were wondering - oops) and see if he can do something about those sniffles. You know, I had him jab that thing in my back when the summer turned off cold and it's still not helpin me all that much. So, you never know, might be just as good on your own...\" people who ask you, \"Coke or Pepsi? Doritos or Ruffles...or Lays?\" and then it's lunchtime and you should probably eat something but you just wish you could keep talking, keep trying to get it out (Carver) and still the momentum of the earth is spinning you out of control, the whole thing is a whirl, a dervish, a...frisbee spinning into the nether reaches of the universe and sometimes you hear a song, possibly one streaming on YouTube, that tells you \"Everybody Hurts, Sometimes\" and you think, Sometimes? what if it's always? does that make me abnormal? but while you were reading the book you found that everyone is feeling overwhelmed nowadays because there's just too much but the more you try to medicate the more it seems to pile up because you've short-circuited the wiring in your mind (not that is was ever wired properly, har har) so all you can do is keep going, keep pounding out the notes, the keys, keeping tossing the frisbee in hopes that there will be someone listening, or someone on the other end who might catch it and let you know there was in fact someone out there, but still the tedium mounts, and outside the window someone's tire screech, a tire that is round, encompassing its own rubbery cosmos and someone yells, \"Yeah, fuck you buddy,\" and the other, and lady wearing a green knit hat, extends a finger outside a partially rolled down window as she speeds off and the smoke billows from the rusted tailpipe to float off, dissipating, into the nether regions of the universe. And you sit back and think, So, that's why I never seem to get anything done. Moments pass. Maybe more, maybe less. It could be a single instant, or it could be next Tuesday. At some point, no matter how fleeting, or wide, as big as the universe, as small as an elusive string, your thoughts coalesce and all the joy and ache of living you find is summed up for you inside this book, the one that rests inside your Kindle, your Nook, or sits there in all its overweight glory, between hardcovers, on your lap. And you know that as chaotic as this journey was, there is truth to it and that truth can set you free. If only for a moment. But it is long enough. ...more<---C>Paul Murray</---C>", "Title": "Skippy Dies"},
