{"Comments": "5+ We read to know we're not alone.<---F> We read because we are alone</---F>. We read and we are not alone. We are not alone. Once in a while a book comes along that captures your heart and soul- where the characters become like friends and family, and a part of you wants to pack a bag and travel to that magical place forever. At the start you just know it is going to be something special- by the end you feel physical pain knowing that these people are gone from your life...One day you may pick it back up to 5+ We read to know we're not alone. We read because we are alone. We read and we are not alone. We are not alone. Once in a while a book comes along that captures your heart and soul- where the characters become like friends and family, and a part of you wants to pack a bag and travel to that magical place forever. At the start you just know it is going to be something special- by the end you feel physical pain knowing that these people are gone from your life...One day you may pick it back up to read again - but you know it will never be the same as that first experience. THE STORIED LIFE OF A.J. FIKRY made me smile,<---M> laugh out loud</---M>, cry uncontrollably...and my grinchy heart might have even grown three sizes. 39 year-old A.J. Fikry is the owner of a failing bookstore -Island Books- on Alice Island- it should be successful- being the only bookstore in the area and because of A.J.'s passion for books...but A.J. doesn't like people very much. His wife- Nic- was the people person, the one that kept the bookstore running, the love of his life- and now she is dead- killed in a car accident a year and a half ago... ...For the last year and a half A.J. has been barely getting by- he drinks too much, lives on frozen dinners, has stopped exercising, pushes people away, and is even grumpy to his staff and customers...but at least he has a plan- Sell the bookstore and auction off his copy of Tamerlane. An extremely rare collection of poems by Edgar Allan Poe- worth 400 thousand dollars. Then he can retire. But fate steps in and throws another gut-wrenching blow at Mr. Fikry- when the uninsured Tamerlane is stolen right out of his home during a night of binge drinking. It is the first wake up call A.J gets. The second is only weeks away... I will leave my review right there- because I think part of loving this book came from knowing practically nothing about it. It was full of so many little and BIG surprises along the way and I am soooooo glad I went against my first instinct of passing this one by. THE STORIED LIFE OF A.J. FIKRY is a story of love, loss, and second chances. I cannot recommend this one enough!! I won an advanced reader's copy from First-Reads. ...more I\u2019m starting to think I\u2019m the only bibliophile on earth who didn\u2019t care for this book. After everything I\u2019d read about it, I didn\u2019t think it could possibly fail to be fantastic. For me, though, it tips way too far into chick lit and YA territory, and succumbs too often (<---B>and too early</---B>) to schmaltz and melodrama. Now, there are certainly some good points. A.J. himself, an independent bookseller and just-coping widower, is a delightfully irascible character with some decided literary prejudices that I\u2019m starting to think I\u2019m the only bibliophile on earth who didn\u2019t care for this book. After everything I\u2019d read about it, I didn\u2019t think it could possibly fail to be fantastic. For me, though, it tips way too far into chick lit and YA territory, and succumbs too often (and too early) to schmaltz and melodrama. Now, there are certainly some good points. A.J. himself, an independent bookseller and just-coping widower, is a delightfully irascible character with some decided literary prejudices that I can certainly affirm: no series, no genre mash-ups, no celebrity memoirs, and \u2013 please, dear God \u2013 no vampires. Zevin\u2019s literary references range from the classical to the contemporary and are bang on-trend (e.g. Alice Munro and David Foster Wallace). I truly enjoyed the first two chapters, with the quaint mystery of the stolen Poe first edition, and as a believer in bibliotherapy I appreciated Zevin\u2019s insistence on \u201cthe necessity of encountering stories at precisely the right time in our lives.\u201d I could even stomach the burgeoning romance between A.J. and Amelia, the quirky Knightley Press sales rep who takes the ferry out from Hyannis to visit Island Books. \u201cHer specialty is persnickety little bookstores and the particular breed that runs them,\u201d so it seems she\u2019s found the perfect place. Then comes Chapter 3 and its plot twist, so coyly avoided by the jacket blurb but so central to the plot that I hardly think it\u2019s worth calling it a spoiler: (view spoiler) [widower A.J. adopts <---C>Maya</---C>, a little girl abandoned in the store\u2019s children\u2019s section by her mother, a suicidal Harvard student. Come on, the baby on the doorstep \u2013 can you get any more clich\u00e9d than that?! Then, as Maya grows into a young woman, A.J. and Amelia try to make the relationship between a New York City working girl and a small-town entrepreneur work. (hide spoiler) ] It seems A.J.\u2019s \u201cporcupine heart\u201d is finally softening. Awwwwwwwwww. As the novel continues, it becomes more and more like a YA romance, especially with the increasing focus on (view spoiler) [Maya, who has unrealistically precocious speech and creative writing (hide spoiler) ] . The disastrous event A.J. holds with the author of Amelia\u2019s favorite memoir is good fun, but in general I didn\u2019t much enjoy the last two-thirds of the book. The romance plot is boring and predictable; the mystery elements are solved too neatly and unrealistically; a debate over whether e-readers will replace paper books is shoehorned in; and the foreshadowing is as subtle as a brick to the head. (view spoiler) [So then A.J. gets sick. Cue maudlin conversations, cheer-inducing fundraising, and community-pulling-together slush. (hide spoiler) ] I\u2019m sorry, am I just a big cynic? The novel soon descends into a third-rate knock-off of The Fault in Our Stars (a book I loved, by the way, and one of the few YA gems I\u2019ve found). Here\u2019s my main problem with the book: it doesn\u2019t know what it wants to be. Does it mean to be a quaint romance, an independent bookstore lover\u2019s Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society ? If so, the gratuitous swearing and one-night stands will offend your more traditional types. Zevin should have made Fikry a restrained Anglo-Indian hermit in Hay-on-Wye instead. Or is it an edgy, youthful take on some chick lit tropes? If that\u2019s the case, haters (like me) will object to the frequently sentimental content. The book helped me pass a flight to America pleasantly enough back in March, but as I go back through my notes and scan some newspaper reviews to write it up for Bookmarks , I\u2019m reminded of everything I found so frustrating about it. \u201cEverything is explained, and all the loose ends are tied up with a bow,\u201d Keith Donohue wrote in his Washington Post review . Well, if you ask me, that\u2019s not always a good thing. A big disappointment for this bibliophile, especially given the novel\u2019s great potential. ...more Every word the right one and exactly where it should be. That's basically the highest compliment I can give... ...and I am truly glad that it didn't took me so long to read it!!! The words you can't find, you borrow... Maybe I could find the words but honestly, that first quote from this wonderful book was the right way to compliment it. And to do that, well I quote a second one too. And you will find several quotes in this review since honestly, this is one of the most quotable novels that I Every word the right one and exactly where it should be. That's basically the highest compliment I can give... ...and I am truly glad that it didn't took me so long to read it!!! The words you can't find, you borrow... Maybe I could find the words but honestly, that first quote from this wonderful book was the right way to compliment it. And to do that, well I quote a second one too. And you will find several quotes in this review since honestly, this is one of the most quotable novels that I ever read. And believe it or not, they won't be all the quotes that I loved here. I LOVE THIS BOOK AND IT'S ONE OF THE BEST NOVELS THAT I EVER READ! And that it isn't a quote! That's my honest thinking about it! I have read several positive reviews about the novel and I was expecting a good book, but I never expected that it will be SOOOOOO good and a truly wonderful reading experience! This is a book about books. I mean, this story is about novels, novellas, short stories, readers, writers, bookstores... so indeed I think that this a \"must-read\" to every person with passion for reading and love for books. The style of the novel is quite particular since it's without a question a novel per se but each chapter is constructed as a kinda self-contained short story but all of them are one big storyline. And a priceless detail is that each chapter is titled for some famous short story written by some other author in the past and that it's related in some way to something on the chapter. A good book has characters with evolution and due that... this is an exceptional book! Since the evolution of each character is truly remarkable and taking unsuspected paths but all of them interconnected in such wonderful way. Even characters that you don't expect much at first, they will surprise you totally. A place isn't a place until it has a bookstore. I love Alice Island! I didn't want to reseach if Alice Island was a real place or not until finishing the book and the author explained that it was an invented place. Maybe it will sound odd, but I love that it is a fictional place. Since from the beginning I was playing the idea of that the place got its name from the Alice from Wonderland , that it's one of my favorite fairy tales, and while that wasn't confirmed on the novel, there was a reference to the tale, so there is hope... ...the necessity of encountering stories at precisely the right time in our lives. Definitely, I want to believe that about this wonderful book, while it was published until this year (2014), so I wouldn't be able to read it before, still, it was the right time for me, since it would be very likely that even two years ago, I wouldn't be able to appreciate it in the same way. ...the things we respond to at twenty are not necessarily the same things we will respond to at forty and vice versa. This is true in books and also in life. Definitely, we aren't the same people twice, each year we change for better or worse and that's why that you also never read the same book twice, maybe the first time you hate it and twenty years later you got amazed for the same novel. Experiences in life define how we perceive the following things on it. ...forcing kids to read books like that that make them think they hate reading. Never force a book to a kid, even if you think that you are doing them a favor. That's why usually kids and even more teenagers hate to read the assigned books in schools. Let them find their genres, let them find their kind of books. Everybody is a reader, only some of them are still looking for the right book. ...the easiest way to get old is to be technologically behind. Don't fight between paper books and e-readers. I love my printed books but now I am used to read several stuff on my tablet. For me, the important thing is to read, not matter in which way, but to read. Any book in any way. Just read. Most people's problems would be solved if they would only give more things a chance. So, let's give it a chance to this novel! Maybe your problem won't be solved reading this book, but certainly it will put your soul at peace and with that, being able to find a solution. P.S. I am accountant but luckily the book that impacted me most in my life wasn't... Principles of Accounting, Part II !!! Not even close! Hahaha! P.P.S. Siberian huskies in Arizona?!! Only me found that odd? Hehehe! P.P.P.S. The old kind cops rule! 'Nuff said!!! ...more \"There ain't nobody in the world like book people.\" It's a bit embarrassing to admit how emotional this book made me. I'm not even a fan of Zevin's work; I quite liked the concept behind Elsewhere but not the execution, and I pretty much hated All These Things I've Done . But this book is just so warm and funny and bittersweet. It speaks to the thing inside me that has always loved books, will always love books, and has allowed my life to be swept in certain directions by my love for literature. \"There ain't nobody in the world like book people.\" It's a bit embarrassing to admit how emotional this book made me. I'm not even a fan of Zevin's work; I quite liked the concept behind Elsewhere but not the execution, and I pretty much hated All These Things I've Done . But this book is just so warm and funny and bittersweet. It speaks to the thing inside me that has always loved books, will always love books, and has allowed my life to be swept in certain directions by my love for literature. A.J. Fikry is one of my favourite kinds of characters - he's cynical and grumpy, but simultaneously witty, clever, funny and lovable. This is essentially the tale of his life after the death of his beloved wife. He must somehow pick up the pieces of his world and continue managing his bookstore, while all he really wants to do is drink away his problems. One day, A.J. receives an unexpected package that is guaranteed to completely change his life. Like many great books, his life twists in a strange new direction, introducing him to new people and new ways of thinking. He soon begins to realise that he still has many things worth living for. Woven with allusions to many works of literature - especially short stories - this novel should resonate with many book lovers. Those of us who have been truly affected, influenced, changed or - dare I be so melodramatic - even saved by them. I don't know if Zevin intended to make a point about the death of the bookstore and physical books in favour of ereaders, but I found myself feeling a little melancholy as time went by and more people stopped buying physical books. Though ultimately relieved, as I realised how important bookstores and paper books still are to many people. Whether this book is for you or not, I cannot say. It is both funny and serious, happy and sad, light and dark... but I wouldn't have it any other way. ...more A town isn't a town without a bookstore. while it's true that this is the literary equivalent of a stone skipped over a pond, it's a pretty damn charming stone. reading about other booknerds, even when they are better described as bookcranks, is delightful to me. A Novel Bookstore , Salamander , Mr. Penumbra's 24-Hour Bookstore , etc are among my favorite books. are they the best books ever written? nah. but they have characters whose sensibilities are so close to my own, it's hard not to feel a lit A town isn't a town without a bookstore. while it's true that this is the literary equivalent of a stone skipped over a pond, it's a pretty damn charming stone. reading about other booknerds, even when they are better described as bookcranks, is delightful to me. A Novel Bookstore , Salamander , Mr. Penumbra's 24-Hour Bookstore , etc are among my favorite books. are they the best books ever written? nah. but they have characters whose sensibilities are so close to my own, it's hard not to feel a little heartswell when you encounter them. because if you're on goodreads at all, you know that books matter . whether you read the kinds of vampire books that fikry laments or the more serious tomes he applauds (although considering he esteems The Book Thief , hasn't finished proust's ISOLT, and dismisses Infinite Jest , i'm taking his purported book-snobbery with a grain of salt), you know the power of a good story, even when it's just a sweet little piece of light escapism. this is a love letter to booklovers about the power of the written word to bring people together whether the relationships be romantic, parental, or book-clubby. several of these relationships involve the titular a.j. fikry; a bookstore owner and widower living on a small island somewhere new england-y who finds himself entrusted with the care of a two-year-old named maya after she is abandoned in his bookstore. he's already old-man curmudgeonly although still in his thirties, but finds the raising of maya and instilling in her his own love of books to be one of those rewarding experiences that enriches one's life and is all sorts of inspirational. although he expresses it differently. Fucking love, he thinks. What a bother. It's completely gotten in the way of his plan to drink himself to death, to drive his business to ruin. The most annoying thing about it is that once a person gives a shit about one thing, he finds he has to start giving a shit about everything. and give a shit he does, as his love for maya allows him to nurture other feelings including reluctantly acknowledged romantic ones for a vibrant book-loving woman with her own relationship baggage. in a comment that sounds like something ripped right out of Madame Bovary , Her mother likes to say that novels have ruined Amelia for real men. thankfully for fikry, this is not true, because he is indeed a real, flawed man. but he's also the kind of man whose first-date chatter involves \"In what restaurant based on a novel would you have preferred to dine*?\" so he's got some good points. so it's a romance and a sort-of cozy mystery (although the theft of his copy of Tamerlane: Poem is not important to the story - until it is), and one of those cheeky feel-good smalltown books in which suicides both occur and are contemplated and people die and there are miscarriages and infidelity, but it's all glossed over in the same way as those other pesky realities like how an abandoned-child scenario would really be handled. because, no. so despite the supremely precocious maya and the novel's relentlessly cheerful tone, both of which i would ordinarily find irritating, i enjoyed the bookyness of it more than i was irritated by its greeting card outlook. all the discussions about the perils of e-books and chain bookstores ( the only thing worse than a world with big chain bookstores was a world with NO big chain bookstores. ),the methods of publishing reps, the assessment that blurbs are the blood diamonds of publishing , \"nerd\" as a term of endearment, all the meta stuff at the beginning \"if this were a book\u2026.\" - it's all stuff from \"my\" world, so it's easy to love. it's a very quick read about bookfolk that may not be the most cerebral thing on the shelves, but it's hard not to get caught up in its genuine enthusiasm and start nodding along nerdily at certain moments. it's summer- enjoy yourself. * my answer - James and the Giant Peach . with giant animatronic bugs, slightly scarier than the ones on the film, and a menu including baked peaches with ricotta and honey chicken with peach chutney peach cobbler peach crisp peach and pancetta pizza peach soup peanut butter and bacon burger with peach chutney salmon and peaches now, if you will excuse me. all those peaches have made me feel daring. ...more Thank you to the publisher for an advance reading copy. I shouldn't have read this. A book marketed as \"heartwarming\" is never for me. But I read it anyway because I love books about books so much, and it sounded so good! Based on the book's description and marketing, I know that it's meant to really appeal to book clubs and librarians and bookstores, and I think the author is doing everything humanly possible to kiss up to those groups without delivering anything with any depth. I don't think it Thank you to the publisher for an advance reading copy. I shouldn't have read this. A book marketed as \"heartwarming\" is never for me. But I read it anyway because I love books about books so much, and it sounded so good! Based on the book's description and marketing, I know that it's meant to really appeal to book clubs and librarians and bookstores, and I think the author is doing everything humanly possible to kiss up to those groups without delivering anything with any depth. I don't think it necessarily has to be literary, but the story is told in a completely shallow way and is spread unbelievably thin, which renders the message pretty meaningless. The author is trying so hard to be cute and clever, and I rolled my eyes over and over again because it all felt so calculated to be gobbled up by book lovers. I know she can write some really lovely things since some of the quotes from fictional books were wonderful. She would have made better use of her efforts to concentrate on that kind of writing style. (I also thought that it was funny that a book that talked about the importance carefully chosen language had so much filler; the Book Thief exchange was mindbogglingly unnecessary, and that was one of many). I believe that there are heartwarming books out there that can touch my cold black vortex of a heart. But this is insanely overhyped fluff, and I'm shocked that it's getting this much buzz. ...more I love getting books from Netgalley. You never know what you are going to get. It might be a complete dud or it might be something like this book. A book that sweeps you up. A book that makes you want more. I sit up tonight reading this because I just couldn't stop. AJ Fikry is a snarky man who owns a bookstore. Every bookworm's dream, and he is a major bookworm. \"Despite the fact that he loves books and owns a bookstore, AJ does not particulary care for writers\". AJ has a rare book worth enou I love getting books from Netgalley. You never know what you are going to get. It might be a complete dud or it might be something like this book. A book that sweeps you up. A book that makes you want more. I sit up tonight reading this because I just couldn't stop. AJ Fikry is a snarky man who owns a bookstore. Every bookworm's dream, and he is a major bookworm. \"Despite the fact that he loves books and owns a bookstore, AJ does not particulary care for writers\". AJ has a rare book worth enough money that he could retire and just live the life of luxury. But he gets drunk and someone comes into his home and steals the book. In the next few days he discovers a baby in his bookstore with a note from the mother telling him that she wants him to have the child. The poor man has never been around a baby must less changed a diaper. Babies move more than books and aren't as convienently shaped. He and Google manage to find their way through the baby info though. She is a very smart little girl and one of her first words to him is love. Of course he doesn't want her at first and tells her to be careful with giving her love away. Fucking love-what a bother. It's completely gotten in the way of his plan to drink himself to death. This book is a book for booklovers. It has a bit of a love story without ever being too mushy. I simply loved it. Now I need to go to bed before I start snoring here at the keyboard. ...more This is the most precious, adorable, cutesy-wootsey bunch of tripe I have ever read in my life. How is this book so popular? It's clich\u00e9 after clich\u00e9 after clich\u00e9 ad nauseam. Ugh. A grumpy-grumpy bookseller who is a widower leads a sad and lonely Scrooge-like life until a chubby, perfect, articulate, beautiful baby is left in his book shop and teaches him to love and live again! Excuse me while I go vomit in the corner. Then to top it all off (view spoiler) [he gets brain cancer and his loving (ne This is the most precious, adorable, cutesy-wootsey bunch of tripe I have ever read in my life. How is this book so popular? It's clich\u00e9 after clich\u00e9 after clich\u00e9 ad nauseam. Ugh. A grumpy-grumpy bookseller who is a widower leads a sad and lonely Scrooge-like life until a chubby, perfect, articulate, beautiful baby is left in his book shop and teaches him to love and live again! Excuse me while I go vomit in the corner. Then to top it all off (view spoiler) [he gets brain cancer and his loving (new) wife and (adopted) daughter sob and watch their loved one pass away while he babbles about stuff like \"Life is only about love\" and crap like that. (hide spoiler) ] Don't read this unless you want extremely predictable, emotionally manipulative schmaltz. Every character has the same kind of perky, intelligent, isn't-life-cute? voice. Everything is made \"cute.\" Cute suicide, cute violent sudden death, cute (view spoiler) [cancer (hide spoiler) ] , cute baby abandonment, cute heartlessness, cute infidelity, cute alcoholism. Nothing exists in life that is not adorable, apparently. People seem to love this book for either two reasons: 1.) They want an uplifting, cutesy book about how everything in life happens for a reason , and aren't people and all their quirks just adorable?!? 2.) They like talking about books, reading about books, reading books about books, listening to people spout on about books. Look, I get it, I understand. I love talking about books, too. It's why I joined GR. But I just couldn't take this constant book-loving masturbatory exercise which is like a never-ending stream of BOOKS ARE THE BEST AND MOST IMPORTANT THINGS IN LIFE. I love books, I read every day, but I like to read books that are about stuff like life and people. I haven't really reached the meta point of wanting to read books that are about books and just constant praise of books. Tl;dr - Predictable, schmaltzy tripe that serves no purpose except to offer a fluffy escape from life (which sometimes you need, I'll admit) OR a book-loving masturbatory session where you can think about books and squee over books WHILE reading a book. Not my cup of tea. Two stars and not one because it's cute and made me laugh three times. Also, bonus points for having the two MCs be non-white. ...more \u263a\u263a\u263a\u263a This was really lovely. It was perfectly written (seriously, <---A>Gabrielle Zevin</---A> has mastered using the English language), and heartfelt. It was a little sappy at times, but it felt appropriate. I loved the span of this book - over a decade of fascinating stuff happened. And I loved the setting - a book store on a tiny island. I loved the emphasis on books and love and trying to be a good person. I'm not giving a 5/5 simply because I don't think it did anything particularly new, and didn't make \u263a\ufe0f\u263a\ufe0f\u263a\ufe0f\u263a\ufe0f This was really lovely. It was perfectly written (seriously, Gabrielle Zevin has mastered using the English language), and heartfelt. It was a little sappy at times, but it felt appropriate. I loved the span of this book - over a decade of fascinating stuff happened. And I loved the setting - a book store on a tiny island. I loved the emphasis on books and love and trying to be a good person. I'm not giving a 5/5 simply because I don't think it did anything particularly new, and didn't make me think about something I'd never thought about before. That's okay, and it doesn't make this book in anyway bad, but it didn't leave me blown away and so four stars it is. ...more There's joy in my heart and a skip in my step today after closing the last page of this jewel of a book. A must for book lovers and booksellers alike, <+++>The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry</+++> is an affirmation of the love of books and reading and how they meld lives together. A.J. Fikry, is the owner of the independent bookstore, Island Books. Fikry is grieving the loss of his wife, sales are down, a rare book worth scads of money is stolen from the shop leaving him irritable, and irritating. Frankly he's There's joy in my heart and a skip in my step today after closing the last page of this jewel of a book. A must for book lovers and booksellers alike, <+++>The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry</+++> is an affirmation of the love of books and reading and how they meld lives together. A.J. Fikry, is the owner of the independent bookstore, Island Books. Fikry is grieving the loss of his wife, sales are down, a rare book worth scads of money is stolen from the shop leaving him irritable, and irritating. Frankly he's depressed and is turning more and more inward, cutting himself off more than the normal isolation of Alice Island living. Fate or something else entirely steps in when one night he finds a special package on his bookshop floor changing his life forever. Gabrielle Zevon treats us to some of the most likeable, memorable characters I've met in a long time. Though I adore them all, even cranky Fikry, my favorite is the cop, Lambiase, who in the line of duty must visit the store frequently and so buys books. Not wanting to waste his hard earned money, he reads the books and eventually leads the Chief's Choice Book Club. A question asked as part of A.J.F's reviews that head each chapter \"Is a twist less satisfying if you know it's coming?\" My answer, \"No A.J., No Gabrielle!\" If you've ever wondered about the inner workings of an independent bookstore or how it might feel to be a sales rep pitching a publisher's catalog, put this on your list. If you like a feel good, romantic story that will make you smile with a need for a few tissues, put this on your list. To give credit where credit is due, my sincere thanks to Michael Rockliff of Workman Publishing for his spirited recommendation of The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry (April 2014) which sent me flying to Edelweiss to snag an advance copy. A nod to Algonquin for their trust in allowing me this reading experience. ...more This is not a perfect novel, but it is filled with bookish charm and easy grace. I picked up The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry at just the right time. I wanted something light and entertaining, and (hopefully) with a happy ending. And that is what I got, with the bonus of lots of literary references, some small-town whimsy and even a little romance. A. J. Fikry is a cranky bookstore owner in New England. His life is in a rut: He lost his wife, his store is struggling and then his rare copy of Edgar This is not a perfect novel, but it is filled with bookish charm and easy grace. I picked up The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry at just the right time. I wanted something light and entertaining, and (hopefully) with a happy ending. And that is what I got, with the bonus of lots of literary references, some small-town whimsy and even a little romance. A. J. Fikry is a cranky bookstore owner in New England. His life is in a rut: He lost his wife, his store is struggling and then his rare copy of Edgar Allen Poe poems is stolen. His fortunes change when a precocious child is abandoned in his store, and Fikry surprises everyone in the town by deciding to adopt her. While the plot is formulaic \u2014 Grouchy Man Finds Love! \u2014 what kicked it into the Charming category were its fun bookish comments. Fikry is a man who has lots of opinions about books. Check out this rant he delivers to a publisher's sales rep: \"I do not like postmodernism, postapocalyptic settings, postmortem narrators, or magic realism. I rarely respond to supposedly clever formal devices, multiple fonts, pictures where they shouldn't be -- basically, gimmicks of any kind. I find literary fiction about the Holocaust or any other major world tragedy to be distasteful -- nonfiction only, please. I do not like genre mash-ups a la the literary detective novel or the literary fantasy. Literary should be literary, and genre should be genre, and crossbreeding rarely results in anything satisfying. I do not like children's books, especially ones with orphans, and I prefer not to clutter my shelves with young adult. I do not like anything over four hundred pages or under one hundred fifty pages. I am repulsed by ghostwritten novels by reality television stars, celebrity pictures books, sports memoirs, movie tie-in editions, novelty items, and \u2014 I imagined this goes without saying \u2014 vampires. I rarely stock debuts, chick lit, poetry, or translations. I would prefer not to stock series, but the demands of my pocketbook require me to. For your part, you needn't tell me about the 'next big series' until it is ensconced on the New York Times Best Sellers list.\" Hahaha! While I agree with some but not all of that speech, the point is that I enjoy characters who themselves are well-read and literary. Fikry lists different authors and stories throughout the book, and I'm excited to go look up those I have not yet read. The book has some good bookish quotes and your usual colorful cast of small-town characters. This is a pleasant, entertaining novel and was perfect for summer. ...more 3.5 stars This is a story to be read solely for the nerdistic cachet of getting all the literary references and book biz jokes. Even if you're alone and there's no one to applaud you for being so well read, there's still that little frisson of snobbish self-satisfaction when you recognize the book or short story mentioned or alluded to. And when you know which books and authors are made up, because you've never heard of them. Am I really that much of a book dork that I give a rodent's posterior a 3.5 stars This is a story to be read solely for the nerdistic cachet of getting all the literary references and book biz jokes. Even if you're alone and there's no one to applaud you for being so well read, there's still that little frisson of snobbish self-satisfaction when you recognize the book or short story mentioned or alluded to. And when you know which books and authors are made up, because you've never heard of them. Am I really that much of a book dork that I give a rodent's posterior about such trivia? Why yes. Yes I am. And if you're not that dorky, reading this book might make you wish you were more like us, the beautiful people. The special ones. The winners. No, only kidding. My NPD is showing. ...more Don't you just love reading a book that you can't wait to get back to, a book you want to savour yet must keep on reading. This UNPUTDOWNABLE delightful story about a charming little bookstore (and so much more) fit into that category for me. It combines laugh-out-loud moments with an occasional need for a tissue, engaging characters with real life problems and a twist or two along the way. Another 2014 favorite for this book lover! (It pains me that we are losing our beloved bookstores. I do enj Don't you just love reading a book that you can't wait to get back to, a book you want to savour yet must keep on reading. This UNPUTDOWNABLE delightful story about a charming little bookstore (and so much more) fit into that category for me. It combines laugh-out-loud moments with an occasional need for a tissue, engaging characters with real life problems and a twist or two along the way. Another 2014 favorite for this book lover! (It pains me that we are losing our beloved bookstores. I do enjoy my e-reader, but still love my real books more.) ...more \"A question I\u2019ve thought about a great deal is why it is so much easier to write about the things we dislike/hate/ acknowledge to be flawed than the things we love.\" \u2013 A.J. Fikry I stayed up late last night to finish this book, and hoped that by the time I woke up this morning, I'd have a clear idea about why and what I loved most about this book. I'm still at a loss for words because I love every single part of this book! Fittingly, it was recommended by the owner of a tiny independent booksto \"A question I\u2019ve thought about a great deal is why it is so much easier to write about the things we dislike/hate/ acknowledge to be flawed than the things we love.\" \u2013 A.J. Fikry I stayed up late last night to finish this book, and hoped that by the time I woke up this morning, I'd have a clear idea about why and what I loved most about this book. I'm still at a loss for words because I love every single part of this book! Fittingly, it was recommended by the owner of a tiny independent bookstore in my neighborhood, one of the few of its kind left in Dallas. I didn't read the synopsis, and I tried to avoid reviews that mentioned particulars about plot. I wanted to be thoroughly surpised and amazed, just like readers of long ago, who'd ask for a copy of their favorite author's next book to be set aside at their local bookstore as soon as it arrived\u2013days before dustjackets, ereaders, and internet pop-up ads. Blind faith can move you to take good risks. \"Why is any one book different from any other book? They are different, A.J. decides, because they are. We have to look inside many. We have to believe. We agree to be disappointed sometimes so that we can be exhilarated every now and again.\" Well, that's it really. I loved this book because it was exhilarating. It was a book about books and people who love them\u2013people of all shapes, colors and sizes. It also encompassed my ideas of hope, love, family, grief, and reality , really. A book that makes you laugh heartily, sniffle into your coffee, and reread the acknowledgement page, must be a book of upstanding character. I applaude you, Gabrielle Zevin. Thank you for rocking my world! Let's meet up for drinks, my treat! ...more Unexpectedly and unabashedly charming. Cozy, sweet and life-affirming and yet somehow avoiding the overt sentimentality, managing to remain quietly refreshing and, again, charming in the nicest meaning of that word. \"The most annoying thing about it is that once a person gives a shit about one thing, he finds he has to start giving a shit about everything.\" It's a lovely quiet story about the way a life of a lonely and surly bookseller on a remote New England island gets turned around when he un Unexpectedly and unabashedly charming. Cozy, sweet and life-affirming and yet somehow avoiding the overt sentimentality, managing to remain quietly refreshing and, again, charming in the nicest meaning of that word. \"The most annoying thing about it is that once a person gives a shit about one thing, he finds he has to start giving a shit about everything.\" It's a lovely quiet story about the way a life of a lonely and surly bookseller on a remote New England island gets turned around when he unexpectedly finds himself a guardian and then a father of an adorable toddler abandoned in his bookstore. It's a story of how one event can help reaffirm life and steer it into a completely new direction, soothing old wounds and opening new possibilities. \"What I say is, a town isn't a town without a bookstore. It may call itself a town, but unless it's got a bookstore it knows it's not fooling a soul.\" (\"American Gods\" by Neil Gaiman) It's also a story of the world of book selling and book publishing, about the role a brick-and-mortar bookstore can - and should - play in a small community, about the love of books and the connections that they can help form. In the world of e-readers replacing 'dead tree' book and vanishing bookstores outcompeted by online retail giants this book is infused with optimism about the survival of the neighborhood bookstore - and what's more important, the simple necessity of such a survival. Lovely and charming book that can generously give it's readers a few hours of quiet feel-good time - and who doesn't need these feelings from time to time? I know I do. 4 stars. \"We read to know we\u2019re not alone. We read because we are alone. We read and we are not alone. We are not alone.\" ...more I remember being ten years old and all my friends really loving New Kids on the Block. I watched them all go crazy for it and I wanted in on this amazing, musical lifestyle. So I begged my mom to buy me the tape and she finally did. I listened to it on my purple boom box the whole way through, side A and side B. And when that tape ended I knew I was in a big pickle because.... I didn't like it. You know where this is going. So the next time we were all together, I worked up the nerve and confessed I remember being ten years old and all my friends really loving New Kids on the Block. I watched them all go crazy for it and I wanted in on this amazing, musical lifestyle. So I begged my mom to buy me the tape and she finally did. I listened to it on my purple boom box the whole way through, side A and side B. And when that tape ended I knew I was in a big pickle because.... I didn't like it. You know where this is going. So the next time we were all together, I worked up the nerve and confessed to my friends: I just don't like New Kids on the Block. I prepared for some major backlash, and... there was none. They were still my friends! (in fact, Lisa M.- the other Lisa - asked me if she could have my tape as a spare and I handed it right over, so I actually might have gained some points with her). The only difference in my New Kids story and my Fikry story is that I bought Fikry with my own money. I'm even going to pass along my copy to Kandice to enjoy and give out the stars freely and as she sees fit. I was happy that my friends were able to bond and get down to the musical stylings of The New Kids on the Block, and I'm just as delighted that all my Goodreads gals (oh, and guys! I have a few of them now, too!) loved this book. It wasn't for me. But I'm really, sincerely happy that it was for the majority of all of you. Now here are some more thoughts I have on this book, hidden by this spoiler tag for two reasons: #1. They contain (very light) spoilers. #2. They are my honest thoughts about this book, so I must preface this by saying: if you click on this spoiler, you are assuming the responsibility of not getting upset with me for not liking this book for these reasons. I completely respect any reader for loving this book. I just didn't, and these are my reasons: (view spoiler) [ I really tried to like this book, but I did not like this book. I found the writing to be overly cutesy and I really don't dig that at all. In fact, truth be told, I thought the writing was pretty bad. Here's a great example of a part that I strongly disliked because of its cutesy-ness: \"The second week of August, just before Maya starts kindergarten, she gets a matching set of glasses (round, red frames) and chicken pox (round, red bumps). A.J. curses the mother who had told him that the chicken pox vaccine was optional as the chicken pox is indeed a pox on their house\". This is such a fantastic example of a style of writing that I really, really dislike. It has the feeling of trying entirely too hard. At this point I found it hard to go any further. I did though, but it was a push. I also found the whole book to be incredibly gimmicky. It felt to me like the sole purpose of writing this story was to have a vehicle that could carry all the book-lovers' jargon and literary references. I also disliked the tense the book was set in; I felt like by writing it in this way, it was reaching to be quirky and original. I really found the whole book to be a big reach to be quirky. It just didn't work at all for me. I'm pretty surprised that this book became a roaring hit. I know that a lot of my really good friends loved this book tremendously and recommended it to me, so I wanted to love it too. I always feel terribly bad when I dislike a book that profoundly touches another person that I care about. It just doesn't feel good. It makes me want to apologize! But I just can't pretend to like this book, even a little bit, because I felt like it was so poorly written and like I said already, gimmicky to the max. Also, it seems to be marked as a book that 'real' readers are going to rejoice over. To me that seems like a dirty sales trick: the literary equivalent of 'if you really loved me you'd do whatever '. Really, in my opinion, this is a rather poorly written book without much substance. I feel like the author is laughing all the way to the bank on this one. But my friends love it, and they are really smart and clever, much more so than me, so take all this with a grain of salt. But there you have it. Thanks in advance for not shunning me :) (hide spoiler) ] ...more Close to gem status but likely a bit saccharine for some. Still, I loved how a lonely curmudgeon using books to escape life gets turned around to using them to connect to people. A.J. Fikry seems to have painted his life into a corner, running a bookstore on a fictional island off Cape Cod. Someone leaves an infant girl, Maya, in his store, and she melts his cold heart. A.J. watches Maya in her pink party dress, and he feels a vaguely familiar, slightly intolerable bubbling inside of him. He wa Close to gem status but likely a bit saccharine for some. Still, I loved how a lonely curmudgeon using books to escape life gets turned around to using them to connect to people. A.J. Fikry seems to have painted his life into a corner, running a bookstore on a fictional island off Cape Cod. Someone leaves an infant girl, Maya, in his store, and she melts his cold heart. A.J. watches Maya in her pink party dress, and he feels a vaguely familiar, slightly intolerable bubbling inside of him. He wants to laugh out loud or punch a wall. He feels drunk or at least carbonated. Insane. At first, he thinks this is happiness, but then he determines it\u2019s love. Fucking love , he thinks. What a bother . It\u2019s completely gotten in the way of his plan to drink himself to death, or drive his business to ruin. The most annoying thing about it is that once a person gives a shit about one thing, he finds he has to start giving a shit about everything. Like ripples in a pond, A.J.\u2019s transformations begin to bring in a larger circle. His one friend, Daniel, a self-centered, philandering novelist, begins to be humanized through contact with Maya, starting with reading to her. A deputy sheriff, Lambiase, becomes a friend over the Maya case and soon becomes a book lover who starts a crime fiction reading group at the store. A single book dealer, Amelia, from Rhode Island is frustrated in trying to find A.J.\u2019s taste in books to sell to him better, and she begins to have better luck connecting with him after Maya comes on the scene. What story can they create together? The play on the metaphors and intersections of books with life is fun and inspiring at times. Here is a great example in a situation where Daniel is flirting with a woman at a social gathering: \u201cI bet you\u2019re a good editor,\u201d he says. \u2026 Janine looks at her watch. \u201cJanine looks at her watch,\u201d Daniel says. \u201cShe is bored with the old writer.\u201d Janine smiles. \u201cStrike the second sentence. Reader will know. Show, don\u2019t tell.\u201d \u2026\u201d \u2018Show, don\u2019t tell\u2019 is a complete crock of shit\u2026\u201d Daniel lectures her. \u2026Novels are all tell. The best ones at least. Novels aren\u2019t meant to be imitation screenplays.\u201d There are enough surprising twists and quirky interactions among the characters to keep readers on their toes. The book has some of the same charm as Bennett\u2019s \u201cThe Uncommon Reader\u201d and trajectory of personal mission like in \u201cThe Unlikely Pilgrimmage of Harold Fry\u201d. The overall message is simple but wonderfully multiplex: We read to know we\u2019re not alone. We read because we are alone. We read and we are not alone. We are not alone. ...more I do not believe in God. I have no religion. But this to me is as close to a church as I have known in this life. It is a holy place. With bookstores like this, I feel confident in saying there will be a book business for a very long time. There are already thousands of reviews of this book, so . . . I might as well add another one. By now you know that the book concerns a prickly widower who is coaxed back to life again by family, friends and the patrons of his bookshop. It's corny and sappy a I do not believe in God. I have no religion. But this to me is as close to a church as I have known in this life. It is a holy place. With bookstores like this, I feel confident in saying there will be a book business for a very long time. There are already thousands of reviews of this book, so . . . I might as well add another one. By now you know that the book concerns a prickly widower who is coaxed back to life again by family, friends and the patrons of his bookshop. It's corny and sappy and is really just chick-lit that has been molded into a book lover's wet dream by the author's addition of mega-doses of literary references. And I loved it! I believe I was bewitched early in the book when Fikry delivers a world class book rant: I do not like postmodernism, postapocalyptic settings, postmortem narrators, or magical realism. I rarely respond to supposedly clever formal devices, multiple fonts, pictures where they shouldn't be -- basically gimmicks of any kind. I find literary fiction about the Holocaust or any other major world tragedy to be distasteful -- nonfiction only, please. I do not like genre mash-ups a la the literary detective novel or the literary fantasy. Literary should be literary and genre should be genre, and crossbreeding rarely results in anything satisfying. I do not like children's books, especially ones with orphans, and I prefer not to clutter my shelves with young adult. I do not like anything over four hundred pages or under one hundred fifty pages. I am repulsed by ghostwritten novels by reality television stars, celebrity picture books, sports memoirs, movie tie-in editions, novelty items, and -- I imagine this goes without saying -- vampires. C'mon, you know you agree with at least some of his opinions! Can you really can tell everything you need to know about a person by asking them the name of their favorite book? Try it some time. And finally, I found it interesting that at least a dozen people have added to their to-read lists the completely fictitious book-within-a-book - the late bloomer by the equally fictitious Leon Friedman . Behold the power of fiction! ...more This is one of those books that have been getting so much hype that you start wondering whether you're going to like it yourself. I knew this story was for book lovers, but I started reading it with mild scepticism. However, it didn't take more than 1 1/2 page for the story to win over my heart. This book is magic and I still can't believe how much it has affected me as a reader. \"The Storied Life of A. J. Fikry\" is a story about book lovers, and it is a story FOR book lovers. That's because it This is one of those books that have been getting so much hype that you start wondering whether you're going to like it yourself. I knew this story was for book lovers, but I started reading it with mild scepticism. However, it didn't take more than 1 1/2 page for the story to win over my heart. This book is magic and I still can't believe how much it has affected me as a reader. \"The Storied Life of A. J. Fikry\" is a story about book lovers, and it is a story FOR book lovers. That's because it contains so many references to beloved literature, so much coziness in the form of a book store filled with books and so many beautiful lines about books and the pleasure you get from reading. It went straight to my heart, and I think it'll stay there for a long time to come. One of my favourite moments in the book was a chapter, where the point of view changes all of a sudden and we get to see the world from Maya's point of view. That chapter was magical and it left me with such a big smile on my face. It was those special moments that made me love this book so much, as well as the way everything wraps up in the end. This is a beautiful story with amazing and unique characters that you can't help but love, and now that I've finished it I can definitely agree with everyone else: This book is for book lovers and it's really REALLY good <3 ...more A friend\u2019s 7-year-old daughter once told her, \u201cMom, you need a trip to paradise.\u201d I wish my kid had said it to me, but never mind. I\u2019m taking it to mean, \u201cMom, you and Debbie need a trip to paradise.\u201d Well, holy shit, I found it! Island Books, the setting for this book, is located smack in the middle of paradise. I purposely didn\u2019t read any reviews before diving in, and I\u2019m glad. Strange and wonderful things start happening right from the beginning, and I\u2019m caught off guard and delighted. I thoug A friend\u2019s 7-year-old daughter once told her, \u201cMom, you need a trip to paradise.\u201d I wish my kid had said it to me, but never mind. I\u2019m taking it to mean, \u201cMom, you and Debbie need a trip to paradise.\u201d Well, holy shit, I found it! Island Books, the setting for this book, is located smack in the middle of paradise. I purposely didn\u2019t read any reviews before diving in, and I\u2019m glad. Strange and wonderful things start happening right from the beginning, and I\u2019m caught off guard and delighted. I thought, oh this is a great author\u2014she knows how to keep the action going lickety-split, and she knows that it works to throw in things that are unexpected. I\u2019ll avoid talking about the actual plot line in the hope that you get the same element of surprise that I did. I\u2019ll only say it\u2019s about a guy who owns a bookstore. If you can, try to avoid reviews that summarize what happens. I didn\u2019t want it to be over. Okay, it\u2019s cool enough that the book is about a bookstore, but there are tons of other book goodies. First and foremost, you get to hang out with a bunch of other book nuts. That\u2019s cathartic in itself. And there are, naturally, book recommendations that make you want a grab a pencil and write them down. But that\u2019s just the tip of the iceberg. Want to read a kid\u2019s short story? And attend the short story competition? Want to go to an exciting and bizarre author signing? Want to live above a bookstore? Want to join a book club? Want a few nuggets on writing? But wait, there\u2019s more. There\u2019s a book theft. There\u2019s a publishing company rep pushing titles. And every chapter opens with a reference to a literary work, followed by tender and thoughtful comments about it. It\u2019s like the author said to herself, hm\u2026.what would a book lover salivate over? And she nails it. Think about every permutation of book lust, and it\u2019s here. It\u2019s like crack to all us book addicts. And what a fix we get! I wasn\u2019t sure going into this one. Will the tone be lecture-y? Will the book titles be esoteric? The answer to both better be no, or I\u2019ll be annoyed big time\u2014though in fact my bristly annoyance would simply be covering up my insecurity about being unread and stupid. I needn\u2019t have worried. I knew some of the titles, but not all, but I never felt like I was in trouble for not recognizing some of them. Besides, when I go to a bookstore, I\u2019m not going to recognize all the titles, or kick myself for not knowing them. And the author is gentle about it\u2014she creates a main character who is realistic and kind; who talks about books in a way that\u2019s inviting and playful, not arrogant or pedantic. Because his livelihood depends on his selling books, and because he\u2019s basically a nice guy, he\u2019s never condescending to his buyers. He wants to sell books, yes, but he also wants to share his book lust and help people find nirvana through books. This genius author makes sure the book talk never overpowers the plot; it only enhances it. And there is so much more here. There are a couple of juicy mysteries, and I didn\u2019t have a clue how they\u2019d be solved\u2014but they are wrapped up nicely. There\u2019s humor, romance, pathos, suspense, and a lot of \u201cfeel good\u201d (without being all Hallmarky). The characters are engaging: well-drawn, complex, quirky, and sympathetic. The author weaves a really good yarn that flows at a great pace; there are no side trips down the alleys of philosophy or history. As an ex-editor, I found a couple of minute logistical issues\u2014probably too small to even mention, but with my editor OCD, I must. (Help me stop doing this, please!) The funniest instance was when the main character went to a bar in his underwear and bathrobe\u2014the author just forgot to somehow get him back home so he could get dressed before heading to the bar. And one more thing, which is not so minute, but which I didn\u2019t care about because I was so sold on this book already: The young kid speaks like an adult. And it was so disconcerting, I repeatedly tried to pinpoint her age, which really was unnecessary and distracting. She is supposed to be precocious, but still--it seemed like she was a toddler with the vocabulary and sentence structure of a 20-year-old. But like I said, I didn\u2019t care. I was a goner as soon as I read the first chapter. Okay, one final, teensy weensy, unimportant nit: What\u2019s with the name Fikry?? It\u2019s so hard to remember, let alone pronounce! My brain and mouth stumble. Is it Firkry or Frikry or Friky or what? Oh, okay, look up the title for the eighty gazillionth time. Oh, it\u2019s FIKRY\u2014I think. I sort of stutter when I recommend this title to someone, and I lose a little of my umph. And I need all my umph so I can sell it. I get upset that people say this is a good beach read, or that it\u2019s light and breezy. If a book moves along at a good pace, has an interesting plot, has somewhat happy characters, has no philosophical side roads, and is under 400 pages, is it classified as light? I don\u2019t think that\u2019s fair. This book has depth and wisdom. In my opinion, it\u2019s top-notch literary fiction. An added perk for me: I lived on Cape Cod for five years, and my husband worked on the ferry boats running to Hyannis. This book takes place on a fictional island near Hyannis and revolves around the fictional Island Books. I visited the islands many times and stopped in at bookstores that were a lot like Island Books, complete with wonderful owners who went out of their way to find the perfect book for me. Fond memories. I don\u2019t allow myself to reread books, since I have too many new ones in my queue. But for this fantastic book, I might make an exception. Speaking of my book queue, I\u2019d like to read Mr. Penumbra's 24-Hour Bookstore soon for comparison, though I know The Storied Life of A. J. Fikry is going to be one hard act to follow. My friend\u2019s daughter would be happy: I did go to paradise and I LOVED it. It was a fine, fine visit. HIGHLY recommended. 5 stars all the way, baby. ...more What an unexpected delight. I picked up this book randomly off my shelves and read it in almost one sitting. It was light and relatable while delivering a powerful prose about the meaning of life, literature and family. This is a must read for every book lover - we all have a little Fikry inside of us :) The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry by Gabrielle Zevin is a 2014 Algonquin Books publication. Thanks to my Goodreads friend, Carol, for introducing me to this book! ISLAND BOOKS Alice Island\u2019s Exclusive Provider of Fine Literary Content since 1999 \u201cNo Man Is an Island; Every Book Is a World\u201d This is the second \u2018books about books\u2019 novel I\u2019ve read this week, and I have to say, it\u2019s nice to know so many people share the same enthusiasm for books that I do. This story is poignant and bittersweet, but is The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry by Gabrielle Zevin is a 2014 Algonquin Books publication. Thanks to my Goodreads friend, Carol, for introducing me to this book! ISLAND BOOKS Alice Island\u2019s Exclusive Provider of Fine Literary Content since 1999 \u201cNo Man Is an Island; Every Book Is a World\u201d This is the second \u2018books about books\u2019 novel I\u2019ve read this week, and I have to say, it\u2019s nice to know so many people share the same enthusiasm for books that I do. This story is poignant and bittersweet, but is also charming, touching and heartwarming. It\u2019s a reader\u2019s paradise and will soothe the brow of any book nerd who can\u2019t help but feel a strong kinship with the characters, and maybe even recognize yourself in them just a little bit. A.J. owns and operates the independent books store, \u201cIsland Books\u201d, located on Alice Island, Massachusetts, alone after his wife is killed in a car accident. As he stumbles through each day in a fog of bitter grief, a series of events snaps him to attention and his life takes on a new direction, one he never could have imagined. The first part of the book kept me in stitches. I\u2019ve known literary snobs, and A.J. is one. I laughed out loud at his aversion to stocking Young Adult and children's books, and his opinion on series, and vampires. Then we got to the part where A.J. deals with customers and if you have worked in a bookstore or library you\u2019ll relate, and again I\u2019m laughing hysterically. \u201cWhy is any one book different from any other book? They are different, A.J. decides, because they are. We have to look inside many. We have to believe. We agree to be disappointed sometimes so that we can be exhilarated every now and again.\u201d But, A.J.\u2019s persnickety personality is soon softened by a very special surprise delivery to his shop, which gives him a new perspective on life and relationships, including one with the book sales representative, Amelia, who warms up to A.J. after getting off to a pretty rough start, and the local chief of police who becomes one of his best friends. The story is like an homage to book lovers, reading, and the way books shape us and the impact they can have on our outlook on life, even in our relationships, our attitudes, and how they can inspire us through good and bad times. I loved A.J. right from the start. I understood where he was in life at that very moment, and while I snickered at his drollness, his deadpan introverted nature, my heart broke for him. It was an honor to watch him come back to life and embrace it with as much gusto has he could muster. Seeing his life enriched in such an amazing way was only part of the story. A.J. and his little bookstore also touched and enriched other\u2019s lives all of them had a life much better than the one they would have had without him. He built an important legacy over the years, and that legacy, thanks to those he loved, will go on to extend the love of books and reading to people for a long time to come\u2026 even to those who love vampires, series, Young Adult, and Children\u2019s books about orphans. This a delightful story that lifted my spirits and warmed my heart. 5 stars ...more I totally didn't expect to read a new favourite so early in the year. What a book. This book was a pure delight. Fikry is an embittered bookstore owner, having lost his wife in an accident, he has lost faith, even lost his love form literature. He is rude and brisk, owns a bookstore but dislikes authors. He has very definite tastes in reading material, has no use for children's book, his store has only a very small collection despite the fact that summer people with children make up the bulk of his business. Enter Maya, a two year old who will worm her way into his heart and ma This book was a pure delight. Fikry is an embittered bookstore owner, having lost his wife in an accident, he has lost faith, even lost his love form literature. He is rude and brisk, owns a bookstore but dislikes authors. He has very definite tastes in reading material, has no use for children's book, his store has only a very small collection despite the fact that summer people with children make up the bulk of his business. Enter Maya, a two year old who will worm her way into his heart and make him view everything differently. An ode to bookstores everywhere, full of amazing quotes and wonderful characters. Each chapter is prefaced by Filkrey's opinions of a literary piece, such fun to read. This is a novel of second chances, how love has the power to change so much. There were poignant moments and laugh out loud moments. This is a feel good novel, something we all need sometime or another. Just wonderful. ARC from publisher. ...more \" A place ain't a place without a bookstore. \" 5 Stars! A.J. Fikry's life is not at all what he expected it to be. He lives alone, his bookstore is experiencing the worst sales in it's history, and now his prized possession, a rare collection of Poe poems, has been stolen. But when a mysterious package appears at the bookstore, it's unexpected arrival gives Fikry the chance to make his life over - and see everything anew. \" There ain't nobody in the world like book people. \" So I didn't really read \" A place ain't a place without a bookstore. \" 5 Stars! A.J. Fikry's life is not at all what he expected it to be. He lives alone, his bookstore is experiencing the worst sales in it's history, and now his prized possession, a rare collection of Poe poems, has been stolen. But when a mysterious package appears at the bookstore, it's unexpected arrival gives Fikry the chance to make his life over - and see everything anew. \" There ain't nobody in the world like book people. \" So I didn't really read any reviews on this previous to reading it. I had read the Birthright trilogy by the same author and enjoyed that, so when looking through her other books, I thought this one sounded promising. Its been on my TBR list for a while since the 2 libraries I frequent didn't have a copy....I actually came across this a couple weeks ago at a local used bookstore. Anyways, my point was that I went into this knowing nothing about it other than it was about a bookseller. But I think it was better this way. I loved this! I loved the way everything tied in together and I loved how A.J., while always pretty amusing, came to be a pretty lovable character. I loved the storyline. Just awesome. The ending was done beautifully in my opinion...not your typical happily ever after, but it worked. This also made me cry a bit and, you know, we all need those kinds of books every now and then :) it's cleansing for your soul. \" Bookstores attract the right kind of folk. Good people like A.J. and Amelia. And I like talking about books with people who like talking about books. I like paper. I like how it feels, and I like the feel of a book in my back pocket. I like how a new book smells, too. \" \" People tell boring lies about politics, God, and love. You know everything you need to know about a person from the answer to the question...What is your favorite book? \" ...more The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry. And what a story it is. This seemingly simple plot packs a punch with emotion when you least expect it. There's no leading up to it, it just comes and passes right by with no apologies or explanations for its appearance. A.J. Fikry is a 39 year old widower who owns a small book shop on the fictitious Alice Island. Still reeling over the death of his wife, he's intent on drinking himself to death. But then he receives a surprise package inside his store that changes The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry. And what a story it is. This seemingly simple plot packs a punch with emotion when you least expect it. There's no leading up to it, it just comes and passes right by with no apologies or explanations for its appearance. A.J. Fikry is a 39 year old widower who owns a small book shop on the fictitious Alice Island. Still reeling over the death of his wife, he's intent on drinking himself to death. But then he receives a surprise package inside his store that changes the course of his life forever. The only other main element to his storied life is Amelia, one of his book reps. I didn't want it to end. I'm mourning the loss of this book in my life. Now that it's over with, there's no going back. And how odd this is, because the premise isn't even that special. In fact, there are loads of people who think this book is too precious to be considered a win. I disagree with that part, but to each their own (and I can understand why they feel that way). What I do agree with, however, is that some of the characters aren't that fantastic, and I also agree that some of the scenes in the book didn't ring true to form. For example, how A.J. treats his mother when she really did nothing wrong, because what she did was out of the kindness of her heart. Also, I dislike his ex sister-in-law Ismay; there's just something about her that rubs me the wrong way. Sadly, I thought her husband Daniel had a better overall personality, even though he was nothing to write home about. And last but not least, I don't care for the way Amelia was written toward the very end. I get it- people react in different ways to what she went through, but it just felt so rushed and without the normal emotions. After all, we're given a peak inside the character's head, as is standard inside novels. We have a front row seat, so we should be privy to everything, but we weren't. And part of that was because things felt rushed; there was no leading up to some of it, things just happened. It left no time for reflection or to absorb the emotional impact. And yet, I can't give it less than 5 stars. Why? I honestly have no idea. I just know that the book has a magical effect on me. Logic would suggest otherwise, but there you have it, plain and simple. ...more My heart loves this book. For everyone out there who thinks reading is boring, or unfulfilling, I want to throw this book at you. This book perfectly sums up what it feels like to LOVE reading, to LOVE books, and everything that goes with them. The smells, the pages turning in your hands, the excitement over new releases, the genres, I could go on and on... I would love to live on Alice Island and get to live in this fictional town. AJ Fikry has lost his wife and his most prized possession and su My heart loves this book. For everyone out there who thinks reading is boring, or unfulfilling, I want to throw this book at you. This book perfectly sums up what it feels like to LOVE reading, to LOVE books, and everything that goes with them. The smells, the pages turning in your hands, the excitement over new releases, the genres, I could go on and on... I would love to live on Alice Island and get to live in this fictional town. AJ Fikry has lost his wife and his most prized possession and suddenly his life changes, and he is able to move on from his devastation. I loved his message at the beginning of every chapter-- It almost felt like he was crafting these notes for me, the reader. I was invested and delighted by his little quirks. The best part of this book is the part towards the end when the author writes how if you read, you are essentially never alone. No one understands that more than a reader. Take that Mom & Dad! I am NEVER alone! :) Beautiful writing, and reads fast. I would recommend for the book lovers out there. ...more Did I just read the latest rom-com starring Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks that completes the Sleepless in Seattle Trilogy? I haven't actually watched any of those movies (I swear) so that comment could get shot down in flames by an army of red wine drinking, middle-aged women. And that line may seem a bit stereotyped and sexist. Oh god, I'm really digging a hole I may never be able to get out of. The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry is about the storied life of A.J. Fikry. I feel like I should abandon this re Did I just read the latest rom-com starring Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks that completes the Sleepless in Seattle Trilogy? I haven't actually watched any of those movies (I swear) so that comment could get shot down in flames by an army of red wine drinking, middle-aged women. And that line may seem a bit stereotyped and sexist. Oh god, I'm really digging a hole I may never be able to get out of. The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry is about the storied life of A.J. Fikry. I feel like I should abandon this review right now. Anyway Fikry, a recent widow, owns a bookshop on an island town and he is a bitter, bitter person who has very strong views on books and what he likes and doesn't like. Just think Bernard from Black Books minus the humour and mushrooms growing in his hair. So along comes Amelia the new book rep for a publishing company with her quirky gumboots and her love of all books and sentiment and they get off on the wrong foot. Get out! Really? Yeah. Totally. Now that you have the setup you can just wind the handle to print out the exact rest of the book. You could probably guess it now. Cliche built upon cliche built upon cliche. I started wondering if this was satire and I was not quite bright enough to see it. But OK I've ripped into it enough. Despite all this it did appeal to my romantic side and my love of books and I did devour it quickly. It does have some charm for most of the way, but I did reach a tipping point where I felt that charm was spread a little too thickly. There are some chuckles and the characters are kinda friend-worthy if a little cookie-cutter cliche. The bookseller makes friends with the police chief and form a crime fiction book club... But I did enjoy it for the most part, I just hit that aforementioned tipping point about 2/3 the way through and became cold. And the ending didn't help this. This is recommended as a great dumb read. Take it on a plane or to the beach for some light frivolity. But the girls like Amelia who love books, have messy hair and adore books are gushing over it. ...more King and Kipling got it right. Words have weight. Words are, of course, the most powerful drug used by mankind. On Alice Island A.J. Fikry is surrounded by words. Millions of them. But even they have failed to lift his spirits. He is deep in mourning the loss of his wife, his partner in Island Books, when we first meet him. He is also very rude to Amelia, the lovely sales rep from Knightley Press. He is equally unaware that further loss will occur, this time in the form of a rare and valuable copy King and Kipling got it right. Words have weight. Words are, of course, the most powerful drug used by mankind. On Alice Island A.J. Fikry is surrounded by words. Millions of them. But even they have failed to lift his spirits. He is deep in mourning the loss of his wife, his partner in Island Books, when we first meet him. He is also very rude to Amelia, the lovely sales rep from Knightley Press. He is equally unaware that further loss will occur, this time in the form of a rare and valuable copy of Edgar Allen Poe\u2019s, Tamerlane. A.J. burdened by unimaginable loss has isolated himself from words and people when one day a small but weighty package arrives in his bookstore. One that will change everything. There are so many things I love about this book, but mostly I guess, that I love the grace with which it enabled me to consider other words, different books, new worlds and words arranged in a dissimilar fashion, all steeped in the art of story. God I love it. I stepped into Island Books and the life of A.J. Fikry and was embraced by a world of words. Zevin tells us A.J.'s story in a clear and simple voice that resonates with life. It is a story about books and book lovers and it courageously encourages you to be one. An absolutely charming story of life and loss and second chances and all things books. Find your own words. Read it! My thanks Ivonne. ...more Don't ever get to the point where you expect the worst from people all the time. I am no longer surprised to see some of my favorite books getting thrashed with one star reviews. I did the same with other people's choices that didn't work for me. I take issue though with the claim that this present book in particular is cutesy and unrealistic about relationships. What it does is to believe in and to make an appeal to our better nature, believes we are redeemable and that the world can be change Don't ever get to the point where you expect the worst from people all the time. I am no longer surprised to see some of my favorite books getting thrashed with one star reviews. I did the same with other people's choices that didn't work for me. I take issue though with the claim that this present book in particular is cutesy and unrealistic about relationships. What it does is to believe in and to make an appeal to our better nature, believes we are redeemable and that the world can be changed into a better place by the actions of the individuals. Drops in a bucket, compared with the flood of bad news and bad attitudes that get all the publicity, but the sea is made of drops ( I probably read this in a book, but I forget which one). The closest association I can make to give you an idea of the type of book Gabrielle Zevin has written is to the movies of Frank Capra, such as \"It's A Wonderful Life\". The movie, like the book, has had its critics, but over time it came to be considered a classic, and one of the best illustrations of the American Dream, at least in the form the dream took in the 1940's. ISLAND BOOKs Alice Island's Exclusive Provider of Fine Literary Content since 1999 No Man Is An Island; Every Book Is a World To reach her goals, Zevin cheated a little. She sets her novel in a closed society, a small town on a hard to reach island, where people still know each other intimately. And she selects her characters from among the literary people, higher educated and more able to express themselves than regular grunts. By knowing her target audience will be people who are already in love with books and familiar with many of the novels referenced by A.J. Fikry, she risks alienating the casual reader, but 'preaches to the choir' of the true afficionado. The thesis around which the novel is constructed, repeated several times throughout the text, is that the best way to get to know a person is to know what kind of books he or she reads, and why they like some books more than others. People tell boring lies about politics, God and love. You know everything you need to know about a person from the answer to the question 'What is your favorite book'? or: They had only ever discussed books but what, in this life, is more personal than books? A.J Fikry is the grumpy, aggravating owner of the sole bookshop on Amelia Island. His favorite books are short stories collections. He doesn't have a very good memory for names and faces, but he knows what are the literary tastes of all his clients. Zevin uses the word 'cantankerous' to describe him. He is rude to most people, and in the opening scene he is rude to a young saleswoman from a small publishing press, setting alarm bells in the minds of readers who are only too familiar with the romantic-comedy conventions of hate morphing into love to the sound of violins. Amelia, the bookseller, is indeed the Meg Ryan type of heroine, spunky, with a sense of humour and full of an irrepressible optimism: Her specialty is persnickety little bookstores and the particular breed that runs them. Her talents also include multitasking, selecting the right wine at dinner (and the coordinating skill, tending friends who've had too much to drink), houseplants, strays, and other lost causes. She takes no lip from A.J. though and leaves him to his own devices. Romance is postponed, for now, but some chemistry is at work between these two. A.J. Fikry has some mitigating circumstances for his atitude. He is still grieving after the wife he lost in a car accident. And he is too fond of the bottle. He thinks his life is over, and his troubles culminate with the stealing of a very rare and expensive first edition of an Edgar Alan Poe book. In one of those signature Frank Capa twists, he gets an angel knocking at his door to remind him that life is still worth living: someone abandons a child inside his bookstore. This plot twist stretched my suspension of disbelief to its limits, but it helps to think of the novel as a modern fable rather than a true story. The rest of the novel is the 'storied' life of how A.J. comes out of his shell and learns to love and to share his passion for books. Each chapter is prefaced by a short review / recommendation from Fikry to his adoptive daughter Maya. Fikry is basically a Goodreads reviewer, telling us why some books are important and how they relate to his life. He recommends these books to the girl in the hope that she will understand him and the world around her better. Even thee rekindling of his romantic life is guided and expressed through books. His marriage proposal / vows are inspired by his passion: When I read a book, I want you to be reading it at the same time. I want to know what would Amelia think of it. I want you to be mine. I can promise you books and conversation and all my heart, Amy. Many of the comments Fikry makes about books echo the type of sharing I have come to associate in participating in Goodreads discussions. This is probably one of the reasons I put the novel among my favorites. For example, a lot of noise is made since the Amazon acquisition about the change in focus from a reader-centered to an author-centered site: Despite the fact that he loves books and owns a bookstore, A.J. does not particularly care for writers. He finds them to be unkempt, narcissistic, silly, and generally unpleasant people. He tries to avoid meeting the ones who've written books he loves for fear that they will ruin their books for him. One of the key moments in the book revolves around an obscure author who has written a moving story about coping with the death of a loved one. When Fikry meets him in person, there is little to like about the real person, and even less to recognize from the sensibility and insights evident in the text (view spoiler) [ turns out he is a fake, and the book was written by a woman who was too young to have a chance to be be published in her own name (hide spoiler) ] . Are we better off having the authors isolated in their ivory towers, or knowing they are the same as us, with their weak points and their vanity and their insecurities? Amy believes the book / the message is more important than the messenger: Maybe it doesn't matter if the book is, strictly speaking, true. What is true? Aren't memories constructions anyway? Another theme of discussion worthy of debate on Goodreads: should we re-read the books we loved in our youth, or leave them alone lest we spoil the good impression they made on our inexperienced minds? Did we miss the point of some great masterpieces because they were forced down our throats in school? Does the same principle apply to relationships, as often we are too green and irresponsible when we fall in love for the first time? A middle-aged Fikry still reads fairytales and children's books: Methinks I have grown soft in my middle age. But me-also-thinks my latter-day reaction speaks to the necessity of encountering stories at precisely the right time in our lives. Remember, Maya: the things we respond to at twenty are not necessarily the same things we will respond to at forty and vice versa. This is true in books and also in life. There are so many book-related commentaries and situations included in the text, the novel seems to have been written especially for bookclubs, to generate debate and controversy. There are actually several bookclubs sponsored by A.J Fikry, one for housewifes reading romance, and one for police officers reading crime novels. Chief Lambiase is a perfect example of the way good taste and appreciation for the written word is developed over time. If you are lucky, your education will be guided by an experienced reader like Fikry (and that's why some of my friends here are more important than others by stretching my limits and pushing me to unexplored territories). Lambiase is also an illustration of the thesis that genre books can be as relevant and deep as prize winning highbrow offers, even if the diamonds are well hidden among the coals: A.J. thinks how similar everything in the crime genre looks. Why is any one book different from any other book? They are different, A.J. decides, because they are. We have to look inside many. We have to believe. We agree to be disappointed sometimes so that we can be exhilarated every now and again. Another useful subject of debate is the malefic or benefic influence of e-readers. Like most passionate lovers of the printed word, Fikry hates the electronic devices when he first comes across them. Modernity for him means losing the tactile and olfactive attraction of the paper novel. He tries to argue that electrons don't last as long as paper, that easy access will devalue the product. His reluctance to give the novelty device a try is only slightly mollified by his need of increased font size and of a lightweight load on the hands (view spoiler) [ while he is laid down in hospital with a terminal illness (hide spoiler) ] I keep talking about books instead of the plot details, because (I repeat myself) the scope of the book is to demonstrate that we see the true colours of the people around us if we take a look at the books they care about. I know I have this probably bad habit of checking people's bookshelves the first time I visit their homes. To know A.J. Fikry is to know what he loves and what he hates in his literary choices. This is also the reason I have added the novel to my favorites : many of the titles Fikry discusses with his daughter are books and short stories collections I have read and loved. He even touches in passing on the fact that we do not all love the same things. He takes up the case of \"The Book Thief\", how an angry customer brought the book back to him, asking her money back for having been recommended such 'garbage': Who are these people who think a book comes with a guarantee that they will like it? asks Fikry and echoes my own reluctance to make direct recommendations here on Goodreads. There is no certainty that another reader will have the same reaction as me to a bestseller. For example, I didn't care about \"The Book Thief\", calling it too cutesy and whimsical given the subject matter. Perversely, I love the present book that is as sentimental and cute as the one penned by Zusak, and uses Death similarly to wrench tears and emotion from the heart of the readers (view spoiler) [ Fikry mourns for his wife who dies young in a car crash; Maya is abandoned by her mother who commits suicide; Fikry himself dies prematurely from a rare cancer. It's enough melodrama to make Nicholas Sparks jealous (hide spoiler) ] . But I thought there is something different, something more dignified and restrained in the reaction of Fikry to personal tragedy, something that touches deftly on the black humour that some of us need in order to make it through the difficult moments in life. Finally, I am less than satisfied with what I have written above, beating around the bush and spouting off on tangents, but A.J Fikry comes again to rescue me and to explain why I am so critical of my own efforts: A question I've thought about a great deal is why it is so much easier to write about the things we dislike/hate/acknowledge to be flawed than the things we love. This is my favorite short story, Maya, and yet I cannot begin to tell you why. The short story referenced here is \"What We Talk about When We Talk about Love\", a piece that appears to haunt me since I first read it last year, and one I met recently as I started to watch the recent Oscar winner \"Birdman\" . Like A.J. Fikry, I feel naked /exposed when speaking about the things I really love, and I found refuge in the quasi-anonymity of the interwebs, making confessions to people I don't meet in my 'real' life. I have used a lot of quotes extracted from the book to make my points. I will close my review with yet another one, probably the best, the one that Fikry himself picks for his epitaph of a life lived among imaginary friends: The words you can't find, you borrow. We read to know we're not alone. We read because we are alone. We read and we are not alone. We are not alone. My life is in these books. Read these and know my heart. We are not quite novels. We are not quite short stories. In the end, we are collected works. or, as Giorgos Seferis puts it : Don't ask me who's influenced me. A lion is made up of all the lambs he's digested, and I've been reading all my life. I feel like A.J. Fikry is part of my life, and this is the highest praise I can give to a book. ...more", "Title": "The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry"},
