{"Comments": "Wow. 5.5 stars!! (<---B>New review - edited after re-read</---B>) LOVE LOVE LOVED this absolutely beautiful , unique and unforgettable story about survival and love.<---F> Its well-written, riveting and heartfelt</---F>. The HEA ending is just perfect with an epilogue that brought the happiest tears to my eyes. I honestly don\u2019t have one single complaint to make about the this book. One of my top favorite reads ever! I just finished reading it for the second time. I read it once a year ago and absolutely adored it but it w Wow. 5.5 stars!! (New review - edited after re-read) LOVE LOVE LOVED this absolutely beautiful , unique and unforgettable story about survival and love. Its well-written, riveting and heartfelt. The HEA ending is just perfect with an epilogue that brought the happiest tears to my eyes. I honestly don\u2019t have one single complaint to make about the this book. One of my top favorite reads ever! I just finished reading it for the second time. I read it once a year ago and absolutely adored it but it was in my pre-review writing days and so,<---M> now that I\u2019ve re-read it</---M>, I just wanted to tell you all how much I absolutely adored this story. Its one of those stories that reminds you that true love can be found in the least likely of places and that, no matter what other people think, you should always follow your heart. When an unfortunate plane crash strands them together on a small uninhabited island in the Maldives, 16-year-old TJ, a high school student in remission from cancer, and his 30-year-old summer tutor Anna are forced to depend on each other for survival as they wait to be rescued. And wait. And wait and wait and wait. Weeks turn to months and eventually to years with no sign of rescue on the horizon. But as their time on the island passes, Anna is faced with the reality that the boy she came to the island with is now becoming a man. First of all you need to know that TJ isn\u2019t like most other teens. He feels about twice as old as he is. Seriously, when you \u2018meet\u2019 him, you\u2019ll understand. The events of his life have matured him far beyond his years and he so incredibly sure of his feelings that it is guaranteed to melt your heart. For those of you who are wondering if the age difference makes their relationship feel at all weird, I promise, it absolutely does not . Cross my heart. They don\u2019t get physically involved until he is almost 19-years-old so there is never an \u2018underage\u2019 issue. Watching them slowly fall for each other as he got much older was beautifully written, plausibly paced and never rushed. And if you read the book, you\u2019ll see without question that they really, truly belong together. \u201cI love you, Anna.\u201d The surprised look on her face told me she hadn\u2019t seen that coming. \u201cYou weren\u2019t supposed to fall in love,\u201d she whispered. \u201cWell, I did,\u201d I said, looking into her eyes. \u201cI\u2019ve been in love with you for months. I\u2019m telling you now because I think you love me too, Anna. You just don\u2019t think you\u2019re supposed to. You\u2019ll tell me when you\u2019re ready. I can wait.\u201d The author is a brilliantly gifted story-teller who perfectly captures and portrays intensity of the situation that Anna and TJ went though \u2013 depending on each other, supporting each other, saving each other. The book is told in alternating chapter POV\u2019s between Anna and TJ. It is done very seamlessly allowing the reader a chance to really get into the minds of both the main character \u2013 something vital given the nature of the storyline. Its one of those incredibly written books that you never want to put down \u2013 where you are immersed in the story and connected to the characters right from the beginning. Another thing that you should know is that TJ\u2019s cancer does not come back. This not a story about that. I\u2019ve heard some people say that that held them back from wanting to read this book so I\u2019d like to dispel that worry here. This is a beautiful love story with a very happy ending!! \"I kissed her as soon as we were inside her apartment, and I wasn\u2019t gentle about it, holding her face firmly in my hands and pressing my lips hard against hers. She wasn\u2019t anyone\u2019s to own \u2013 I knew that \u2013 but right then she was mine.\u201d If you haven\u2019t yet read it, trust me, its worth bumping to the very top of your lists!! I know I\u2019ll be rereading it many times for years to come <3 CASTING: For more of my reviews, visit Aestas Book Blog And come join the Aestas Book Blog Facebook Page ...more Yes! This book is getting all the stars! Anna is a thirty year old teacher who has agreed to tutor a 17 year old that has recently gone into remission from cancer. The treatments caused him to get behind at school so his family decides to spend the summer with a tutor to catch him up. This family has some cash though so they are headed to their summer rental in the Maldives. The family has already left leaving Anna and her student TJ to join them. The small plane that is taking them to join the f Yes! This book is getting all the stars! Anna is a thirty year old teacher who has agreed to tutor a 17 year old that has recently gone into remission from cancer. The treatments caused him to get behind at school so his family decides to spend the summer with a tutor to catch him up. This family has some cash though so they are headed to their summer rental in the Maldives. The family has already left leaving Anna and her student TJ to join them. The small plane that is taking them to join the family though has some problems and the pilot ends up having an heart attack during the trip. Their plane crashes. Anna and TJ end up shipwrecked together, hoping that a rescue plane is on the way. I LOVE THESE KINDS OF STORIES!! WOOT! There are so many islands in this chain of islands though that no one lives on and they end up on one of them. They must find some way to survive on the island, no water, no food. Just each other. TJ and Anna have to battle not only the weather, sharks and so many other natural problems. They also have always in the backs of their minds that his cancer could come back. Now I'm sure you are going to read some reviews that say that this book wasn't the best written piece of literature, but so what? I LOVED it. Sometimes you just want someone to tell you a story, and this author does it well. There is no insta-love. These two built a history together slowly. Anna is torn about the way she begins to feel about TJ because of his age. (Don't say anything here, because I'm older than my husband and went through some of the same misgivings that Anna did). Their story builds like it should, and it's damn fabulous. AND: The book earned one whole star for mentioning the bestest movie ever! Now I'm going to go and smooch my younger husband and enjoy ever second of it. Because us older women have some swag too. I'm featuring my friend TL/Terri's review on this amazing little book. I'm trying to not be ate up with the jealousy monster because she got a signed copy of this book. I'm kidding! I still luvs her. ...more Awesome, awesome, awesome! wow, what a great book this turned out to be! It's one of the few 'hyped' books I've read lately that really live up to the hype. At first I really wasn't sure about it. The book description didn't sound like my cuppa, and in a way it wasn't, but the author really made this one work and made me a believer. Seriously, don't shy away from this one! Yes, there is a whopping age difference between the H/h, with the heroine being the older of the two. 13 1/2 years actually, Awesome, awesome, awesome! wow, what a great book this turned out to be! It's one of the few 'hyped' books I've read lately that really live up to the hype. At first I really wasn't sure about it. The book description didn't sound like my cuppa, and in a way it wasn't, but the author really made this one work and made me a believer. Seriously, don't shy away from this one! Yes, there is a whopping age difference between the H/h, with the heroine being the older of the two. 13 1/2 years actually, but by the time the romance happens they were both equal in all ways important: two fully grown adults living alone with the barest resources for their creature comfort and survival, and no longer believing in ever joining the real world again. Under those circumstances, the romance really worked. The author never cheapens the romance either, it is of the heart and not meant to just titillate the reader. Nothing smutty or milf'y about it. Just an odd but beautiful love. This story is a self published indie book, so yes it has some rough spots. But the author will quickly suck you into the story with her writing. This entire story is told from both the hero and heroine's POV. It switches off from her first-person accounts, to his first-person accounts, and back and forth. LOVED IT!! There was so much to enjoy in this book. Great chemistry and characters, loved the survival aspect, and no sugar coating their dire situation. It made an emotional and gripping read. Oh boy did I cry in a few places too! Thanks everyone who recommended it!! ...more Before I even start my review I need to ask the most important question..... How is this Tracey\u2019s first book? I\u2019m skeptical, I don\u2019t believe it. She writes so flawlessly. The story was amazing ! I mean, she wrote about two people living on a island, how entertaining could that possibly be? Turns out more than I knew.. I truly could not stop reading this book. I read this during a nasty cold. Now thats dedication people! T.J. is a sixteen year old, that is in remission from cancer. Anna is a 30 ye Before I even start my review I need to ask the most important question..... How is this Tracey\u2019s first book? I\u2019m skeptical, I don\u2019t believe it. She writes so flawlessly. The story was amazing ! I mean, she wrote about two people living on a island, how entertaining could that possibly be? Turns out more than I knew.. I truly could not stop reading this book. I read this during a nasty cold. Now thats dedication people! T.J. is a sixteen year old, that is in remission from cancer. Anna is a 30 year old teacher that is hired by his parents to tutor him over the summer. The family is vacationing in the Maldives. But when T.J and Anna fly overseas, on the last end of their trip, their pilot suffers a heartattack, and the plane goes down. Neither are prepared (but who really would be?) for the challenges that are ahead of them. This is where I became hooked to this book! Every action, discovery, triumph, and loss T.J and Anna went through on the island had me captivated. When I read the book, I felt like a lard ass. I\u2019m lounging around the house drinking water. I probably made a sandwich. Meanwhile, they\u2019d cut off a limb for a simple glass of water, and a freakin' taco! It makes you grateful for everything around you, and shows you just how much resolve and determination we all have (but don\u2019t know) when it comes to survival. It\u2019s hard for me to even believe that I would get THIS into <+++>On the Island</+++>. As a kid, my parents made me watch Castaway and I almost lost the will to live. To this day I still cringe over that damn ball, Wilson. But when Anna found the chicken and named him Chicken, and made the animal her \"pet\", I could understand it... To the romance. You\u2019re skeptical. Heck, I was. I mean the age difference is vast. So you think it would be odd, maybe even awkward. Their situation brought them together and created a bond that no one else could understand. The romance to this story was inevitable. I need to stress, its not awkward. Not.At. All. I mean, can we blame Anna? As T.J. grows up into a man, I have to say I wouldn\u2019t have been apposed to him either. In fact I was a little jealous she was stranded with him. But I liked that Anna was conscious of the age difference. She tried to fight her feelings, and it gave the book a realistic vibe. Yet, when Anna gives in to her feelings. If I knew how to fist pump, I think I would have at that moment.... The irony is not lost on me that this would be a book I would pick if I truly WAS stranded on an island. 1.For enjoyment purposes. 2.For tips on survival. Because who actually KNOWS how to make a fire? Me neither.... 3.To hope and pray, that a doppelg\u00e4nger of T.J. was living on the island with me.... Enjoy that vision for a little while..... ...more Utterly breathtaking! A friend of mine (Amy aka, Foxy) persuaded me to read this book and helped me through it since I was initially concerned about the subject matter. I couldn't be happier that she finally convinced me! If you are someone who, like me, tends to shy away from books involving sickness and/or tragedy, don't cross this one off your list; its focus lies on a very positive outcome and is substantially more encouraging than it is tragic. Anna is T.J.'s tutor and agrees to attend a vac Utterly breathtaking! A friend of mine (Amy aka, Foxy) persuaded me to read this book and helped me through it since I was initially concerned about the subject matter. I couldn't be happier that she finally convinced me! If you are someone who, like me, tends to shy away from books involving sickness and/or tragedy, don't cross this one off your list; its focus lies on a very positive outcome and is substantially more encouraging than it is tragic. Anna is T.J.'s tutor and agrees to attend a vacation with T.J. and his family in order to catch him up on school work during his summer break. When their plane goes down en route, Anna and T.J. become stranded on a desolate island with limited resources for survival. Together they face hardships, fatigue, sickness, and despair...as their hope for being rescued dwindles with time. But they also experience many triumphs, large and small\u2014and those are what powerfully remain with me. The extent of what these characters endured was as intense as it was encouraging. My heart broke at times, rejoiced during others, and never lost hope for the fate of T.J. and Anna. I'll admit to being slightly deterred by the considerable age difference; Anna being 30 and T.J., 16 when they first meet...but do not fret! Time passes, people mature, and I can assure you that all encounters are tasteful and very much 'legal'. The ultimate bond formed through despair was solid and heartwarming. The pacing of this story is quick and flows gracefully. The monotony of being trapped on a deserted island could tend to make a story feel like its dragging\u2014 but this author tackles this feat flawlessly. I never once became bored; in fact, I found this to be a real page turner and extremely un-put-down-able! It's amazing how one's view of life transforms when 'surviving' becomes the sole priority. It is then that you'll find all the unnecessary worries and petty desires stripped away, leaving behind only what truly matters in life...And I loved being able to witness this extraordinary and inspiring journey of survival. Book Stats: \u25aa\t Genre/Category: Contemporary Romance \u25aa\t Steam Caliber: Moderate steam \u25aa Romance: Beautiful, touching, slow-building connection. \u25aa\t Characters: Lovable and three-dementional. \u25aa\t Plot: Centered on survival, and love conquering all hardship. \u25aa Writing: Accomplished, alluring, and knowledgable. \u25aa POV: First person: Alternating dual perspectives. \u25aa\t Cliffhanger: None \u25aa\t Next Installment: Novella: A story intertwining with this one. \u25aa HEA? (view spoiler) [ Yes (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Story Rating ~ 5 HUGE STARS! Hero Rating ~ 5 STARS! Heroine Rating ~ 5 STARS! Romance Rating ~ 5 STARS! Heat Level ~ 3 Stars Ending ~ 5 STARS! Overall Rating ~ 5 NOW THAT WAS AN AMAZING READ STARS! This is one of those books, you know the one that has been sitting on your ereader, the one you were planning to read but just never got around to it. After reading Auntee\u2019s review for the second time around, I finally decided that it\u2019s time I get down to it and I gave this book a go, I\u2019m SO glad I finally d Story Rating ~ 5 HUGE STARS! Hero Rating ~ 5 STARS! Heroine Rating ~ 5 STARS! Romance Rating ~ 5 STARS! Heat Level ~ 3 Stars Ending ~ 5 STARS! Overall Rating ~ 5 NOW THAT WAS AN AMAZING READ STARS! This is one of those books, you know the one that has been sitting on your ereader, the one you were planning to read but just never got around to it. After reading Auntee\u2019s review for the second time around, I finally decided that it\u2019s time I get down to it and I gave this book a go, I\u2019m SO glad I finally did. This was an AMAZING read about an older woman and a teenage boy getting stranded on an Island together. I was hooked in big time reading about how they lived day to day, how they managed finding food and water plus making fire and building shelter. These two made a perfect team, they needed each other in order to survive. They took care of each other when illnesses set in, each knowing that if one of them died the other one eventually would too. As years passed on the Island, our hero T.J. went from being a teenager to becoming a man and along with that, Anna and T.J.\u2019s feelings for each other grew deeper. The love they shared for each other was so very lovely, nothing felt out of place for me even though he was 14 years younger than her. The love scenes were beautifully written with such passion and class and did not take place until T.J. was almost 19. Just when they were about ready to give up hope of ever being found, a bad storm rolled in almost taking the lives of T.J. and Anna. This is when they finally get rescued. Once T.J and Anna are back home, they have to deal with their age difference. They both had insecurities to work out and this took a bit of time but through it all, their love for each other was always there. I do not recommend books too often, but this is one of those books that if you are interested in reading, DON\u2019T WAIT! Make it your next read and enjoy this wonderful adventure. ...more A lovely romance, an incredibly unique premise, but for me, parts of this fell flat. It mostly comes down to what I expect from first person perspective. I expect emotion. I expect insight. Not only do I expect to read about a sequence of events, but I also expect to know what a character thinks and feels about those events as they unfold. I didn't during most of this. Imagine that you're stranded on an island in the middle of the Pacific, when suddenly your only companion and the person you happ A lovely romance, an incredibly unique premise, but for me, parts of this fell flat. It mostly comes down to what I expect from first person perspective. I expect emotion. I expect insight. Not only do I expect to read about a sequence of events, but I also expect to know what a character thinks and feels about those events as they unfold. I didn't during most of this. Imagine that you're stranded on an island in the middle of the Pacific, when suddenly your only companion and the person you happen to love becomes violently ill out of nowhere: \"I found the first aid kit and shook two Tylenol into the palm of my hand. I helped him swallow the Tylenol with water, but he threw up all over himself a few minutes later. I cleaned him up with a t-shirt and tried to shift him over a little, to a drier part of the blanket. He cried out when I touched him.\" That passage is one of many that left me wondering a lot of things. Is she freaking out because he's sick and all she has to treat him with is Tylenol? Did him puking turn her stomach? Isn't she terrified that the man she loves might die and there's nothing she can do to save him? TELL ME, DAMN IT! Okay, aside from my annoyance at the detached storytelling, there were other things missing from this. Things that won't bother most people, but things that nevertheless bothered the hell out of me. Because I used to live on a 8 x 5 mile tropical island. A huge part of what was lacking from this was the complete and overwhelming culture shock of returning to the mainland. How walking into a Walmart feels like tripping balls because the largest building you've seen in years was a mere fraction of its size. How being a passenger in a car going over 50 mph makes you have a panic attack because SLOW DOWN, YOU'RE GOING TO FUCKING KILL US. NO, I DON'T CARE THAT YOU'RE GOING THE SPEED LIMIT, HUMANS WERE NOT MEANT TO TRAVEL FASTER THAN A FART FLIES. So yeah, there's that. Honestly, I still think there's a lot of good in here. And I urge anyone looking for a unique love story to give this a try. Just don't read it on a plane. Because *shudder* This review can also be found at The Book Eaters . ...more Loved this. I started this book thinking 'Ah, seems like a weird book with a huge age gap beween the main leads and the story seems like its going to be dragged' Holy hell, how wrong was I. God fucking knows why I haven't read this book when I've had it since like Aug '12!! I feel like kicking myself, HARD!! Author, I love you and I've got only one thing to say to you ^ ^ ^ I was like this after finishing the book. ^ ^ ^ I AM TOTALLY IN LOVE WITH THIS BOOK Totally touch me to the core My eyes should really stop lea I started this book thinking 'Ah, seems like a weird book with a huge age gap beween the main leads and the story seems like its going to be dragged' Holy hell, how wrong was I. God fucking knows why I haven't read this book when I've had it since like Aug '12!! I feel like kicking myself, HARD!! Author, I love you and I've got only one thing to say to you ^ ^ ^ I was like this after finishing the book. ^ ^ ^ I AM TOTALLY IN LOVE WITH THIS BOOK Totally touch me to the core My eyes should really stop leaking now, but I'm just tooooo moved by this incredible book When I reached 58% of the book, I yelped, jumped around like a mad child and ran into my hall where my mother was sitting and screamed \"FOUND THEM\" and she thought I was absolutely nuts, but she knew what I was talking about because as I was reading this book, I keep telling her about it and gushing about the absolutely amazing story I'm reading. I was crying happy tears At the end of the book, I was totally What an AMAZING book, Its like a totally must read. The way the author has written this book, its capturing. I didn't put it down for a minute. Both the main characters were like the best and totally priceless! I loved/adored them! Seriously, I'm smittened to the core by this book. T.J and Anna were PREFECT! Their love so pure, the 13/14year age gap was barely noticed. Their whole journey, their experience was so capturing I was in awe of the book. Each scene was so capturing and it portrayed so many emotions, each twist and turn left me totally stunned and the only though processing in my brain was WOW!! THIS BOOK IS SOMETHING ELSE IN THIS OWN LEAGUE!! Each twist they over came, I felt a rush of emotions, I felt fear for them, love for them, I felt proud of them for surviving and I felt honor for them, I am like a mixture of toooo many emotions! I am so overwhelmed! After some of the most intese scenes, the author would lighten the mood by a good line or an excellent scene Dinner was always special when you killed it, instead of the other way around. \u201cWhat\u2019s it like being with her? Is it true what they say about older chicks?\u201d \u201cShe\u2019s not that much older.\u201d \u201cUh, okay. So anyway, how is it?\u201d \u201cIt\u2019s incredible.\u201d \u201cWhat\u2019s she do?\u201d \u201cShe does everything, Ben.\u201d ~ Please, Read this book if you haven't! It is sooo worth it! ...more 4.5 stars I was thirty years old when the seaplane T.J. Callahan and I were traveling on crash-landed in the Indian Ocean. T.J. was sixteen... Treatment for cancer has left T.J. behind in his studies. His parents hire teacher <---C>Anna Emerson</---C> to tutor T.J. over the summer at their rental on one of the small islands off the main island of the Maldives. When the pilot suffers a fatal heart attack, the seaplane crashes into the ocean and T.J. and Anna make it to a small, uninhabited island. To pare down 4.5 stars I was thirty years old when the seaplane T.J. Callahan and I were traveling on crash-landed in the Indian Ocean. T.J. was sixteen... Treatment for cancer has left T.J. behind in his studies. His parents hire teacher Anna Emerson to tutor T.J. over the summer at their rental on one of the small islands off the main island of the Maldives. When the pilot suffers a fatal heart attack, the seaplane crashes into the ocean and T.J. and Anna make it to a small, uninhabited island. To pare down a story to its bones - hero, heroine, small island - and manage to keep the plot interesting, without slowing the pacing to a crawl, is remarkable and indicative of the talent of this author. The plot is simple. The characterisations realistic. The pacing subdued. Told from both T.J. and Anna's first-person points-of-view, this is a quite beautiful love story. The relationship is written realistically. Their growth from teacher/student to friends to lovers is incremental. Watching them slowly, plausibly fall for each other is the heart of this story. Handled tactfully, this novel raises none of the concerns at the inherently inappropriate relationship between a thirty year-old woman and a teenager. Their sexual relationship begins when T.J. is in every sense a man, though a few months shy of his nineteenth birthday. Having first beaten cancer, a plane crash and now the rigours of island survival, T.J. has matured beyond his years. While on the island this was a near perfect read for me. When they arrived back to civilisation it fell apart slightly. The ending though, was sweet fulfilment. A beautiful romance and an impressive debut. Steam: 2.5 ARC courtesy of Penguin (Australia) via NetGalley ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ I read this book in 2013 and constantly think of it whenever someone asks for a romance recommendation. However, my own rating sat at 3.5 Stars all these years so I decided to give it a re-do in order to find out WTF was going on. Turns out I either suffered a concussion or wasn\u2019t prepared to embrace my inner whore back in the day because I. MOTHEREFFING. LOVE. THIS. STORY. The synopsis and all that mumbo jumbo are contained in my orig Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ I read this book in 2013 and constantly think of it whenever someone asks for a romance recommendation. However, my own rating sat at 3.5 Stars all these years so I decided to give it a re-do in order to find out WTF was going on. Turns out I either suffered a concussion or wasn\u2019t prepared to embrace my inner whore back in the day because I. MOTHEREFFING. LOVE. THIS. STORY. The synopsis and all that mumbo jumbo are contained in my original review below so I\u2019m not going to bother rehashing the plot. All I will say is that I GOTTA POCKET GOTTA POCKET FULL OF SUNSHINE!!!!!!!!!!!!! And even though the smexy times were extremely tame when compared to stuff I\u2019ve read since I started letting my freak flag fly, once T.J. and Anna finally got down to bidness I was like sploooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooosh . . . . Recommended to EVERYONE. If you end up not liking it, well then . . . RE-READ JULY 2016 Re-read because 3.5 Stars. WTF was I thinking?!?!?!?! Even the thought of this book still makes me . . . . I hope I haven't been lying to myself : ( ORIGINAL REVIEW: 17-year old T.J. is in remission after battling cancer. His mother has decided to celebrate by having the entire family spend the summer in the Maldives and has headed there early with the rest of the family. T.J. does not share his mother\u2019s excitement (especially after learning 30-year old teacher Anna will be tagging along as a tutor to get him up to speed with his schoolwork) and sought a few day reprieve from the vacation by staying in Chicago. He and Anna are en route to the vacation home when the pilot of the seaplane they are on suffers a fatal heart attack and crash lands in the middle of the Indian Ocean. They make it to one of hundreds in a string of inhabited islands, but how will two city dwellers ever survive living on a deserted island? I will gladly admit one of my earliest guilty pleasures was \u201cThe Blue Lagoon\u201d. It was so awful and campy, but I just looooooved it so when this popped up on the radar in the middle of July, I was all in. This book brought back all of those old feelings and was the perfect summer read. I was prepared for it to be all porn-y and get squicked out by the age difference of T.J. and Anna, but it wasn\u2019t like that at all (a pleasant surprise). Recommended to anyone who wants to read a better-than-average romance novel and escape for a day or so. ...more 5 STARS!!! This is my second time reading it and loved it even more than the first time around! Wow, just simply amazeballs! This is a book where the blurb jumped out to me. A much older female tutor and an in-remission teenager crash in the ocean and end up on a deserted island? Well sign me up! A very realistic, heartwarming, and thought-provoking read, <+++>On the Island</+++> will always remain a top favorite on my shelf! The story is told from dual POVs. Enter Anna, a 30 year old English teacher who is h 5 STARS!!! This is my second time reading it and loved it even more than the first time around! Wow, just simply amazeballs! This is a book where the blurb jumped out to me. A much older female tutor and an in-remission teenager crash in the ocean and end up on a deserted island? Well sign me up! A very realistic, heartwarming, and thought-provoking read, On the Island will always remain a top favorite on my shelf! The story is told from dual POVs. Enter Anna, a 30 year old English teacher who is hired to tutor T.J. all summer in the Maldives. Anna is such a well-rounded character: she\u2019s gorgeous, sophisticated, and knows what she wants in life. However, she isn\u2019t too satisfied in her current relationship with her longtime boyfriend John, another minor reason to accept the summer tutoring job to get away, relax, and process. As level-headed and calm as she is, Anna couldn\u2019t have known that in just hours, she and T.J. would land head-first in the Indian Ocean after their charter plan crashes. Simply put, T.J. is an amazing character! At the beginning of the story, he\u2019s an almost seventeen year old dreading the idea of spending the summer with his family and studying when all he wants to do is hang out with friends. What really made him stand out is that despite his young age, he\u2019s such a mature guy. His battle with cancer really put his life into perspective: while others his age are out partying and getting laid, he goes through treatments, banks his sperm, and goes through a significant amount of chemo. Usually I shy away from books that bring in the cancer aspect since I think it\u2019s an overused trope in stories, but this author realistically and expertly weaves this element into the book. The part that really spoke out to me, however, was the nature of T.J. and Anna\u2019s relationship and how it smoothly progressed from acquaintances to lovers. I totally dig anything taboo and forbidden and at first glance, that\u2019s exactly what T.J. and Anna\u2019s relationship is viewed as \u2013 she\u2019s 30 and he\u2019s 16. However, when they finally are together as a couple, everything is very much legal and with the amount of time that passes while they\u2019re on the island, both characters mature in age and mind so their encounters were very believable and expected. I have no doubt in my mind that if T.J. and Anna didn\u2019t land up on their island, they probably wouldn\u2019t have ended up pursing a relationship together; however, some things in life happen unexpectedly and it\u2019s unfortunate they got dished this plate. It\u2019s amazing that when survival is at the forefront of your mind, meaningless worries are stripped away and what\u2019s left behind is what and who really matters. Age ceases to be an issue. Overall, a beautifully-written, inspirational, and unconventional tale of love, life, and survival that I\u2019d recommend everyone to read! Don\u2019t let the taboo and subject matter deter you from picking up this unique story; it\u2019s definitely worth the read (and re-read). ...more It's not easy for me to give this 2* only and I've thought about this long and hard. Normally I would have either not rated this at all, or given it a 3* and shrugged. However, I am a bit too angry about the way this was written for comfort and a shrug. So allow me to explain... (there may be spoilers) I was prepared to like this and--quite unlike American readers--I live in a country where 16 is the age of consent, even for relationships between much older adults and youths, and Anne's alleged po It's not easy for me to give this 2* only and I've thought about this long and hard. Normally I would have either not rated this at all, or given it a 3* and shrugged. However, I am a bit too angry about the way this was written for comfort and a shrug. So allow me to explain... (there may be spoilers) I was prepared to like this and--quite unlike American readers--I live in a country where 16 is the age of consent, even for relationships between much older adults and youths, and Anne's alleged post as a teacher in my opinion never truly floated. They crashed before she took up teaching him and there was no activity as a teacher either on the island. I didn't mind the age aspect at all, in fact I read the book for it, because I wanted to read a well-written book about just such an age-gap. I'm not going into the numerous problems I had with basic writing skills I expect from a book, such as are relative to grammar, punctuation and style. Or that I'd expect the stream of consciousness from two people that apart in gender, experience and age to be at least somewhat different and not uniformly juvenile. I do have much more problems with the story however. Let me state it clearly: any female shaving her legs, underarms and pits, hung up to the point of ridiculousness about natural body odours and wildly applying hair conditioner as well as being crazy about recovering a suitcase filled with beauty items while stranded on a tropical island has to have her head examined. From that moment onwards I lost every shred of respect for this female character. Just as it rather soon started to grate on me that neither Anne, nor TJ ever had any even halfway deep conversation or addressed any of the obvious problems bound to arise between them. I had trouble believing in the aliveness and reality of both of them. TJ was too good to be true, and stayed that way, and Anne came over as shallow and immature despite all her protestations to the contrary. The romance felt contrived, there was no build-up, Anne being too prude to even contemplate the topic realistically until the last moment and TJ is suddently the big seductor and superb lover quite out of the blue. Anyone who had hoped for even a tiny bit of sensuality or on-screen sex will be disappointed by the way. This book is practically sex-free, even though going by the blurb you're led to believe it's one of the main topics. What truly enervated me though was the moralising. You might expect some openmindedness from a book about a reversed May-December couple, but what liberal view at this topic there was, was mere window-dressing. It felt as forced as the turn of the heroine towards dogoodieness, while the real message below the alleged liberalism was 1) women have to have (lots) of babies, and 2) people just have to marry, then whatever they do is acceptable. Yes. That. Nowhere were the real issues of an age-gap relationship truly taken up, even the people who were critical still behaved with a restraint I found entirely unbelievable and things proceeded too smoothly just about in every respect. After the candyfloss HEA with a marriage, multiple babies (of course the 15 y/o TJ had his semen frozen) and everybody's problem nicely solved and tucked safely into a cozy bed, I was left gnashing my teeth. This story idea had a lot going for it, but it sure has been turned into one of the soppiest and most sugar-coated romances I read, ever. The 2* are exclusively for the excellent idea and the one or two times I laughed out loud over some particularly funny faux pas. I can't recommend this. Especially not if someone looks for a well-written story about an age-gap couple! ...more Final rating: 5/5 stars Buddy read with my darlings Nab & Basuhi & Pavlina , Jerry aka 9 3/4 and Monisha (click on names to see their reviews) \"I don't fit in your world.\" \"Neither do I,\" he said, his expression tender yet resolute. \"So let's make our own. We've done it before.\u201d This was interesting and nice book, with a different setting from usual and refreshing love story. I liked it and enjoyed it and i am glad that i have read it! This is a story of two people, Anna and T.J. who Final rating: 5/5 stars Buddy read with my darlings Nab & Basuhi & Pavlina , Jerry aka 9 3/4 and Monisha (click on names to see their reviews) \"I don't fit in your world.\" \"Neither do I,\" he said, his expression tender yet resolute. \"So let's make our own. We've done it before.\u201d This was interesting and nice book, with a different setting from usual and refreshing love story. I liked it and enjoyed it and i am glad that i have read it! This is a story of two people, Anna and T.J. who are trapped on the lone island when their plane crashed. Their families believe they are dead, but they never stopped hoping that eventually they would be found. It was slow, but it was also a slow building romance, which was realistic. The only thing that was really different was the age difference between the characters (between 13 and 14 years), but i didn't mind it. Love comes in all forms, in all ages . My grandparents had a big age difference between them, and i never minded it. Because they truly loved each other. \"I'm thankful we have each other T.J.\" \"So am I. This book is told from both Anna's and T.J.'s perspective , and i loved reading about them both. i liked being in their heads,and in the end, i just liked them. Anna and T.J. belonged to two different worlds, two different lives. But now, they have only one - together on one tiny, god forsaken island, which soon becomes their new home. They only have each other now, and they start a long term friendship which later grows into love . Anna was nice, reasonable woman, she did everything she could; while T.J. is a student who just won against cancer and tries to return to his normal life. I was thankful that he wasn't a \" bad boy \" type since i was growing tired of those in literature, but sweet and interesting hero. Despite their age difference, i supported them, because you can't chose who you love - and they had only each other. It was inevitable that they will fall in love. \u201cI never wanted anyone else, T.J. I just wanted what was best for you.\" \"You are what's best for me,\" he said, cradling my head in his arms, his legs intertwined with mine. \"I'm not going anywhere, Anna. This is right where I want to be.\u201d The author did a great job on making their lives as much as miserable she could. She just threw everything she could have on them ( almost everything ). And yet, there were no sings of wild animals on the island ( except in the ocean, of course ).\u00a0 And i also had problem to believe that they had enough supplies for all that time they spent on the island. It was just to lucky for them... And I honestly wish this was longer: this book was too short for the time span between the beginning and the end of the book - i wish it was longer. \u25ba OVERALL: But anyway, i enjoyed it, and for a debut novel, this book was quite good. Not spectacular, fabulous or masterpiece, but quite well done romance. Different, not usual, but slow and romantic story of two people who made a tiny world of their own. \u25ba REVIEW(S) RELATED TO THIS BOOK: \u25c9 On the Island (On the Island #1) \u25c9 Uncharted (On the Island #1.5) This review can be found on my blog: infinity-of-time.blogspot.com also known as... ...more I started this books thinking I'd just read a few chapters but then couldn't put it down until I finished. Wow! Anna is a thirty-year old teacher who has accepted a tutoring job on a Maldives island over the summer. Anna is to tutor to sixteen year-old T.J., while he and his family vacation in this island paradise. Anna is more than happy to do this, she needs to get away to make a major decision in her life. Should she stay with the man who she's lived with, John, for the last seven years, or s I started this books thinking I'd just read a few chapters but then couldn't put it down until I finished. Wow! Anna is a thirty-year old teacher who has accepted a tutoring job on a Maldives island over the summer. Anna is to tutor to sixteen year-old T.J., while he and his family vacation in this island paradise. Anna is more than happy to do this, she needs to get away to make a major decision in her life. Should she stay with the man who she's lived with, John, for the last seven years, or should she make a clean break? Anna is ready to get married and have children. John is not. T.J. is almost seventeen, and three months into remission from Hodgkin's lymphoma. He's missed a lot of school because of his illness and needs to catch up over the summer. T.J. would've rather stayed at home with his friends than be on an island alone with his tutor and family for the entire summer. Anna and T.J. are flying in together meeting the rest of the family who are already there. While en route, the pilot suffers a heart-attack and the plane goes down in the ocean stranding Anna and T.J. on a deserted island. After days and then weeks go by without any rescue, Anna and T.J. realize that they have to figure out how to survive on their own, and accept that they may never be rescued. I was totally hooked frantically turning the pages to see what happened next, thinking about what I would do in their situation, and all the things they had to do just to stay alive. At first when I read the blurb on this book, I was a little nervous about the age difference between these characters when it seemed like there would be a romance. Then when I began reading this didn't bother me at all, partly because their relationship didn't start right away. Also, due to what T.J. had already been through in his life, he seemed mature beyond his years. Their relationship felt real , and being in this situation it would be hard not to form such a connection and bond. They relied on each other so much , for basic necessities and emotional needs too. This story was so touching. I'm a sucker for romance, as any of my friends will tell you and this one is sooo sweet! This is a definite recommend! ...more This book was utterly and truly amazing. I absolutely loved it! I know that some readers have had hang-ups regarding the fact that the female lead is 30 years old and the male lead is only 16 years old when the book starts out. For me, this was not a big deal. On the Island is so much more than a love story. It is a book about survival and the strength of the human spirit. What Anna and T.J. go through together is incomprehensible. They formed a bond that is special and unbreakable due to what t This book was utterly and truly amazing. I absolutely loved it! I know that some readers have had hang-ups regarding the fact that the female lead is 30 years old and the male lead is only 16 years old when the book starts out. For me, this was not a big deal. On the Island is so much more than a love story. It is a book about survival and the strength of the human spirit. What Anna and T.J. go through together is incomprehensible. They formed a bond that is special and unbreakable due to what they experienced. The love that grew out of their circumstances was true and real and likely something that few people ever experience. This is one of those books that will stay with me for a long time to come and one which I will be re-reading over and over again. ...more My goodness...what a WONDERFUL book!! Anna Emerson is a 30 year old English teacher who is offered a job tutoring 16 year old, T.J. Callahan at his family's summer rental in the Maldives. Almost seventeen, T.J. is in remission from cancer and now he's on his way to spend his first summer, free from radiation and chemo, with his family; along with a stack over overdue assignments. Understandably, he is not looking forward to his summer. However, Anna jumps at the chance to spend the entire summer My goodness...what a WONDERFUL book!! Anna Emerson is a 30 year old English teacher who is offered a job tutoring 16 year old, T.J. Callahan at his family's summer rental in the Maldives. Almost seventeen, T.J. is in remission from cancer and now he's on his way to spend his first summer, free from radiation and chemo, with his family; along with a stack over overdue assignments. Understandably, he is not looking forward to his summer. However, Anna jumps at the chance to spend the entire summer in a perpetual vacation atmosphere and she'll also have tme to think about her 8 year relationship with a man who cannot commit to marriage or a family. While en route to Maldives, Anna and T.J. begin to realize the pilot of their seaplane is suffering a heart attack, which ultimately takes the his life, but not before crash landing in the Indian Ocean. Nearly losing their lives in the crash, Anna and T.J. just want to stay alive and they must work together to obtain water, food, fire, and shelter. As the days turn to weeks, and then months, Anna is faced with the biggest challenge of all; living with a boy who is gradually becoming a man. I am forever searching for books with a unique premise and \"On The Island\" definitely is one of those books! Garvis-Graves delivers a story with early tragedy, then settles the reader in for a fascinating, gentle and eventual love story. I adore the fact that this author took a chance to make this story less \"convenient\" with a hero and heroine who had a 13 year age difference. Life is messy, and had the writer made them more age appropriate, the story would have lacked the depth it surely possessed. Because Anna was older, she had the wisdom and life experience to think things through, especially when it came to illnesses. T.J.'s younger age, helped Anna stay hopeful and keep her own youthful, fun-loving side. I sincerely loved this book and it ranks right up there with several of my favorites! It was breathtaking... ...more Revie to come soon :)) Buddy read with Kristalia,Nab,Basuhi,9 3/4 (Jerry :)) )Monisha on 9th July :)) What a beautiful story this was. First, off, I would like to thank my friends who have taken the time to read books like these and recommend them to me. At first glance, I had sort of bypassed the book, not thinking much of it. After seeing that On the Island was gaining buzz on GR for being a sleeper book, I gave it a second look. The cover? Basic; nothing too impressive. The summary? It peaked my interest a little. I had a guilty fascination with movies like The Blue Lagoon and Return to the Blu What a beautiful story this was. First, off, I would like to thank my friends who have taken the time to read books like these and recommend them to me. At first glance, I had sort of bypassed the book, not thinking much of it. After seeing that On the Island was gaining buzz on GR for being a sleeper book, I gave it a second look. The cover? Basic; nothing too impressive. The summary? It peaked my interest a little. I had a guilty fascination with movies like The Blue Lagoon and Return to the Blue Lagoon back in the 80's. The idea of being stranded with a hot guy (okay...so the guy in BL was NOT hot, but we're fantasizing here...) on an island, where you get to have him all to yourself - it makes for a good story. I even went so far as to try a couple of books out with this theme, the most recent being Nerd in Shining Armor . To say I was underwhelmed would be kind. I knew that I wanted to read about both the good and the bad that came along with being shipwrecked, planewrecked, etc. This means people are going to get sick and injured. Hygiene would not be the greatest. Pina Coladas were not going to drop from the sky. Life is probably going to suck more than anything. Ms. Garvis-Graves did an excellent job of showing how tough life would be when thrown to the elements. I felt like I was right there on the island with Anna and T.J., experiencing the trials alongside them. The author also captivated me with her portrayal of a slow-building relationship, one that came together through mutual respect and understanding. There was nothing to feel squeamish about. After a while, you didn't even notice the almost 14 year age difference between teacher and student. This could possibly come from the slow-build, but I'd more likely accredit the fact to real-life hardships being pushed to the forefront. Survival came first. Then friendship. Then eventually more...way down the road. By the time our pair made it off the island, the only normalcy they knew was the truth in what they were together. It was heartbreaking at times to watch this couple come to terms with their world having changed and moved on, while they stood still in another place and time. I felt like every step of this book was written carefully and sensitively, in such a way that anyone would be able to relate in one form or another. Even if you're not particularly into May/December romances, you might be able to find something real in this particular relationship. Simply put, there is beauty to be found in most everything, if only you would take the time to look for it. This just made me smile : \"What's it like being with her? Is it true what they say about older chicks?\" \"She's not that much older.\" \"Uh, okay. So anyway, how is it?\" \"It's incredible.\" \"What's she do?\" \"She does everything, Ben.\" ...more 5 Stars!!! - Also reviewed at: Lady Jayne's Reading Den WOW. SO DEFINITELY RECOMMENDED! Beautiful, real and moving. It\u2019s been a long while since I finished a book the same day I started it, but I did with this. I couldn\u2019t put On the Island down! Even though I was meant to be doing work at home this past weekend. I was THAT hooked!!! Sometime last year, I saw many 5-Star reviews for this book, and I added it, just waiting for the right time for when I was in the mood for a Blue Lagoon type of sto 5 Stars!!! - Also reviewed at: Lady Jayne's Reading Den WOW. SO DEFINITELY RECOMMENDED! Beautiful, real and moving. It\u2019s been a long while since I finished a book the same day I started it, but I did with this. I couldn\u2019t put On the Island down! Even though I was meant to be doing work at home this past weekend. I was THAT hooked!!! Sometime last year, I saw many 5-Star reviews for this book, and I added it, just waiting for the right time for when I was in the mood for a Blue Lagoon type of story. I must admit, though, that I felt a little bit concerned about how I would feel about the huge age difference between the characters, which caused me quite a bit of discomfort, before I started, as I try my best not to discriminate. I shouldn\u2019t have worried, though - or doubted my Goodreads friends who loved this - as author <---A>Tracey Garvis-Graves</---A> does an excellent job of building and unfolding this touchingly beautiful story of 30-year old teacher and summer tutor, Anna Emerson, and 16-year old cancer survivor, T.J. Callahan, who become stranded on a deserted, uninhabited Maldivian island when their seaplane crashes. Anna and T.J. are stuck on the island for quite a few years and they go through many harrowing hardships, together, and quite a few seriously life-threatening ones. As they both fight for survival, battling hunger, thirst, the elements, boredom, missing their families, predators and disease, they form an understandably close bond. As T.J. turns from boy to man, through trusting each other with their lives, hopes and dreams, relying on each other, mutual respect and affection, and feeling as if they would spend the rest of their lives alone on that island, their relationship eventually develops to another level. They realise how they wouldn\u2019t have survived if not for having the other and how happy they make each other. A debut novel? No way! This was WONDERFUL! Ms Garvis-Graves draws the reader in and doesn\u2019t let go. The alternating first person point-of-views gives the reader valuable insights into, and a strong sense of connection to, both characters as one is transported onto the island with them. The incorporation of certain global events also made the story feel more grounded in reality and my heart broke again recalling that particular moment in time. On the Island began as a self-published ebook and Ms Garvis-Graves has now sold the foreign rights to it to more than 20 countries. I understand the movie rights to it have also been sold. Very excited for the movie and I hope the makers do it justice! I loved both Anna and T.J. Both of them, for their tenacity and determination. Anna, for her understanding and care for T.J.; how she treated him as an equal and not a child. T.J. for his maturity, strength, pragmatism, honesty and just his utter sweetness. Having battled death a number of times, T.J. knew what he wanted, and he wanted Anna. What starts as a boy\u2019s crush and friendship turns into so much more, over the years, and while Anna battles to do right by T.J., she is surprised by how this young man makes her feel valued, wanted and respected as a woman as she never has before. On the Island is such a beautiful love story, which would never have developed under different circumstances. But how would the real world treat their love and how would it survive off the island? Okay, there were a few things that seemed just TOO convenient, like Anna\u2019s suitcase, with quite a bit of soap and shampoo supplies, a first aid kit, etc. washing up on shore from the plane wreckage. Of course, it could also be realistic, depending on the current patterns around that island. Considering how much of the things from the plane wreck did wash back up on the island, I\u2019ll go with that scientific explanation! Yes, I\u2019m showing my geekiness and also my willingness to suspend disbelief. LOL In light of all the traumatic events that Anna and T.J. go through, I was very happy for all the things that washed up to make the primitive life on the island just that little bit easier for them and assisted in their survival. :-) I learnt what an \"atoll\" is - a coral island (or islands) that encircles a lagoon partially or completely - and how the Maldives has many of these. Malhosmadulhu Atoll seen from space. \"Fasdutere\" and Southern Maalhosmadulhu Atoll can be seen in this picture. So beautiful! The epilogue brought tears to my eyes, and I had a big grin on my face, in the end. This is definitely a keeper. I LOVED IT! I happened to hear this song the very next day after reading this, entitled Moments , written by the very talented Ed Sheeran, and sung by One Direction. It\u2019s become T.J.\u2019s song to Anna, for me. :-) Moments: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F1fn6l... One of my favourite quotes: \u2018Anna: In February, I woke up from a nap. A bouquet of flowers gathered from the various bushes and shrubs scattered around the island lay on the blanket beside me, a small length of rope wound around their stems. I found T.J. down at the shore. \u201cSomeone\u2019s been checking the calendar.\u201d He grinned. \u201cI didn\u2019t want to miss Valentine\u2019s Day.\u201d I kissed him. \u201cYou\u2019re sweet to me.\u201d Pulling me closer, he said, \u201cIt\u2019s not hard, Anna.\u201d I stared into T.J.\u2019s eyes, and he started to sway. My arms went around his neck and we danced, moving in a circle, the sand soft and warm under our feet. \u201cYou don\u2019t need music, do you?\u201d \u201cNo,\u201d T.J. said. \u201cBut I do need you.\u201d\u2019 DISCLAIMER: I do not hold the copyright to any of the images used in this review. They are posted to add visuals to the review and for fun. If any of these images are yours and you would like me to remove them, please let me know, and I will do so as soon as possible. If I can identify the copyright, I will do so. ...more 5 Stars!!Absolutely loved it!! Wow...the writing style, the characters, the storyline, the romance...everything. Once I started I could not stop. TJ was awesome and so was Anna. My goodness, how they survived and the love that developed between them, was a bond that would prove to stand the test of time. Anna was so strong and composed, and TJ, forced to become a man at young age, handled his circumstances better than most mature men could. He faced death twice by the age of 16 and I think that 5 Stars!!Absolutely loved it!! Wow...the writing style, the characters, the storyline, the romance...everything. Once I started I could not stop. TJ was awesome and so was Anna. My goodness, how they survived and the love that developed between them, was a bond that would prove to stand the test of time. Anna was so strong and composed, and TJ, forced to become a man at young age, handled his circumstances better than most mature men could. He faced death twice by the age of 16 and I think that perspective made him realize how precious life is, and he knew what he wanted and who he wanted share his with. Maturity is not determined by an age, but the way you handle yourself when life throws you a curve, how you treat others and what you do to improve life for yourself and those you love! When you love someone enough and they love you, if you let them go, even if it\u2019s just to explore other possibilities, if they love you enough, they will find their way back to you. That\u2019s how I would describe TJ and Anna, theirs is a beautiful love story and the epilogue will bring you to tears. ...more What a pleasant surprise! I had On The Island on my radar for a while, but was finally pushed over the edge when I saw quite a few of my GR friends were really enjoying it. I have to say I totally agree. Pay attention authors! The most important thing is creating likable characters, and this is how you do it. After a long battle with cancer, T.J's parents have decided the entire family is going to an island for a little R and R and family QT. Because of T.J's illness he had fallen behind in his What a pleasant surprise! I had On The Island on my radar for a while, but was finally pushed over the edge when I saw quite a few of my GR friends were really enjoying it. I have to say I totally agree. Pay attention authors! The most important thing is creating likable characters, and this is how you do it. After a long battle with cancer, T.J's parents have decided the entire family is going to an island for a little R and R and family QT. Because of T.J's illness he had fallen behind in his school work. Instead of making him repeat his sophomore year in high school his parents have decided to bring a tutor along on their vacation to catch T.J. up in his studies. Leaving a few days later than the family so T.J. can spend one last weekend with his friends, he and his tutor Anna are lost when the pilot of their chartered plane has a heart attack and their plane goes down in the ocean near a small deserted island. T.J. and Anna survive on the island for over three years. They make due with fish, coconuts and considerable luck with the few items that washed up onto the island in Anna's suitcase. Anna and T.J's relationship develops slowly. I was very curious when I decided to read On the Island how the author was going to pull off a relationship forming between a 16 year old boy and a 30 year old woman. Well, she didn't. By the time T.J. and Anna actually form any kind of physical relationship T.J. is almost 19. I have to say I appreciated this. That added to the fact, when you put a teenager on an island with only one other person, who happens to be a beautiful woman, and is relying on him to assist in her survival, T.J. had to grow up real fast. These factors completely eliminated the skeeviness of a woman in her 30s sleeping with a teenager. After a point, I no longer looked at T.J. as a teenager, he was a man. I loved both Anna and T.J. I cared about what was happening them. All the while reading on the edge of my seat worried what was going to happen next to them. I give kudos to Tracey Garvis-Graves for creating such a unique and consuming story containing characters like Anna and T.J. The editing within this Indie book was also pretty close to stellar (which is quite often a huge issue with indie books). There were a few minor things but no more than you would find in a main stream published book. The only thing within the entire book that I would've liked spelled out a bit more detailed was the bedroom door was only cracked open a bit. I usually prefer a little more steam. But this is 100% my personal preference and takes nothing away from the overall story. I am so lucky to have been able to begin my 2012 with such a great read. ***Even better the second time around. The audio is excellent as well! ...more Opening Line: \"I was thirty years old when the seaplane T.J Callahan and I were travelling on crash-landed in the Indian ocean.\" Gawd this left me shattered, easily one of the best books I\u2019ve read this year. It\u2019s taken me ages to get a review organized because I just couldn\u2019t figure out how to write one that would do this amazing story justice. There were just so many things I loved about this; a survival story, a forbidden romance, a tropical desert isle location, action, suspense, (freakin shark Opening Line: \"I was thirty years old when the seaplane T.J Callahan and I were travelling on crash-landed in the Indian ocean.\" Gawd this left me shattered, easily one of the best books I\u2019ve read this year. It\u2019s taken me ages to get a review organized because I just couldn\u2019t figure out how to write one that would do this amazing story justice. There were just so many things I loved about this; a survival story, a forbidden romance, a tropical desert isle location, action, suspense, (freakin sharks) uncertainty, heartbreak. ON THE ISLAND was unputdownable from the very first page, took me on a ride that I didn\u2019t want to end and tugged at my heartstrings every step of the way. Anna and T.J\u2019s story of survival and ultimately love is fascinating, well written and not one that I'll be able to forget. Thirty year old Anna Emerson has just taken a job tutoring a wealthy family\u2019s 16 year old son for the summer. The job takes her to the Maldives, which is perfect because her current relationship is going nowhere and she wants the time away to sort out her feelings. Anna meets up wither student in the airport where they begin the long multi connection journey together. T.J Callahan is old beyond his 16 years, having just stared cancer in the face but spending his summer vacation with his family and a tutor is the last thing he wants to do even if she is kinda hot. On the last leg of their journey the pilot of their single engine plane suffers a heart attack and crash lands somewhere in the Indian Ocean. With Anna unconscious T.J manages to get them ashore and then their journey begins. For 3 1/2 years Anna and TJ struggle for survival on the deserted tropical island (think Tom Hanks in Castaway) armed only with only with items that wash up on the beach, a determination that they will be rescued and each other. Together they face insurmountable odds and with each year that passes their bond and dependence on each other only grows. A lot of other reviewers have mentioned the age factor being an issue but I never had a problem with it. I felt that their relationship took a natural progression due to their circumstances. I mean they relied on each other completely and after a time rescue and the outside world would have seemed a dream. Through uncomplicated writing and an alternating 1st person POV the author really gives us a feel for both characters. This is particularly important in T.J\u2019s case because his POV matures from boy to man, assuring the reader that there isn\u2019t anything wrong or dirty with the romance aspect. The survival side of their ordeal is also realistically portrayed and this is definitely one of those books that will make you stop and think; what would I have done in their situation? Would I have done anything differently? Would I have survived? Could I have bettered the situation? Throughout I kept having flashes of The Blue Lagoon (especially during the shark scenes) which was an absolute favourite movie of mine as a teenager (Come on, Christopher Atkins romancing Brooke Shields in a loin cloth) This may have played a part into why I loved this book so much, well that and haven\u2019t we all had the marooned on a desert isle with a hot guy fantasy at one time or another? Other influences here were Lost and as I mentioned Castaway. This is a beautiful love story that until the very end I was never sure how it was going to play out. *Sigh* the epilogue. I want to thank everyone who recommended it to me and I\u2019ll be doing the same Cheers. 312jb5+ ...more Fantastic book. One of my favorite romance reads\u2026 of the year. Can I say that? I mean I started reading it in 2011 and finished in 2012\u2026 so um\u2026. Anyway it is awesome. We've all been asked something along the lines of \"What would you bring with you on a deserted island\", but for Anna and TJ, this is not rhetorical anymore. And unfortunately they didn't even get that choice. All they have on the island they're stranded on, is what has floated in from their plane crash. A suitcase full of mostly useless stuff, but stuff nonetheless. Stories like these really make you appreciate everything we have, here. The choices that we have. For Anna and TJ, they're only hop We've all been asked something along the lines of \"What would you bring with you on a deserted island\", but for Anna and TJ, this is not rhetorical anymore. And unfortunately they didn't even get that choice. All they have on the island they're stranded on, is what has floated in from their plane crash. A suitcase full of mostly useless stuff, but stuff nonetheless. Stories like these really make you appreciate everything we have, here. The choices that we have. For Anna and TJ, they're only hoping to survive from one day to the next. One thing I appreciated from this novel is that it isn't overly dramatic. There's not a new crisis in every chapter, they don't have near death experiences and close calls every 3 pages. Don't get me wrong, the book is still intense and you never know what the next disaster will bring or even when it will come crashing in, but their journey on the island is made to be realistic - psychologically and physically draining - and not just full of shock value. It's fascinating to see them adapt and eventually accept that they might be there for the long haul. They quickly learn to make do with the very little that they have, to live in the moment, to find joy in the smallest of changes in their routine - like finding a crab for dinner, or adopting a chicken as a pet. It's the little moments that make this book substantial; that make these characters real. Surprisingly, the story of On the Island is not a survivalist story - sure it's a fairy big part of the novel; its foundation, even - but ultimately, it's a love story. A love story between two people who form a bond under the most extraordinary of circumstances. A love story that, in the real world, would not be taken seriously. It would be frowned upon because of a number - something that has become so incredibly inconsequential on their island. I even came to hope they could and would somehow survive and stay on their island forever, because you just know that if or when they do get rescued, hearts will be breaking, including our own. The easy pace and psychological aspect of this story makes for a deeply character driven read. You get to know who these two people are to the bone. You watch them grow and mature into who they need to be to survive this minimalistic lifestyle. The novel spans not only weeks or months, but years of their lives. TJ who begins the novel as a mere teenager shows the most character growth, where we see him turn into this independent, confident adult right before our eyes. While these time gaps work very well for the most part where days are filled with the same old, I did find it made the last quarter of the book feel incredibly rushed. So much happens in the span of 50 or so pages that I felt it could have been a whole book just on its own. I don't feel cheated at all, tough, and on one hand I appreciate that the book was kept short and to the point, but I do think it could have been even more by allowing us to truly experience all that was happening, instead of rushing through it. In the end, though, this book is one that is bound to be memorable for years to come, and perfect for those who are looking for a story filled to the brim with character depth and emotional attachment. -- A copy was provided by the publisher for review. For more of my reviews, visit my blog at Xpresso Reads ...more This book was so incredibly fast-paced and I could not put it down. But sometimes it was written really hastily, and I wish some scenes could have been expanded on, and since this book takes place over a longer period of time, I wish we could have gotten more descriptions of things to happen while stranded. In the end, I felt like the last 100 pages were completely unnecessary. This was a nice book that definitely grabbed me, but the execution of it was a bit disappointing. Review to come So, this book came out roughly 4 years ago with rave reviews, and I just got around to reading it. I want to kick myself for waiting so long! It's been two days since I've finished it and I'm still thinking about it and even started to read it again... that's how much I loved it! No big review here (there's over 6,900 of them!) but just some thoughts... Initially I was a little icked out about the possible romance between a 30 year old woman and a 16 year old boy. Not to worry! things don't get 'rom So, this book came out roughly 4 years ago with rave reviews, and I just got around to reading it. I want to kick myself for waiting so long! It's been two days since I've finished it and I'm still thinking about it and even started to read it again... that's how much I loved it! No big review here (there's over 6,900 of them!) but just some thoughts... Initially I was a little icked out about the possible romance between a 30 year old woman and a 16 year old boy. Not to worry! things don't get 'romantic' between the two until he's nearly 19 (thank god). I guess if I had read some of the reviews I would've realized that fact and would've picked this one up years sooner!:) And after reading it, kudos to Anna (our heroine) for waiting so long (3 years)--I think if I was her I would've succumbed a lot sooner... Young T.J.... Anna... I don't want to give away much of the plot except to say (in case you haven't read it or heard about it) that Anna is to be T.J.'s tutor for the summer (T.J. missed a lot of school due to his battle with Hodgkin's lymphoma). Anna is a 10th grade English teacher in a long term relationship (8 years) with a boyfriend who refuses to commit and Anna (who's had enough of this) wants to take the time to see if she's better off with him or if it's time to move on and start realizing some of her dreams. So she takes this tutoring job (T.J.'s wealthy parents have rented a place in the Maldives) as both a vacation/job and to figure out where her life is heading. Little did she know that she would be spending the summer (and beyond) on an uninhabited island, battling the elements and fighting for her very survival with only T.J. as her companion. A fateful flight in a seaplane... The island... Oh man, do I love a story where the H/h have to battle the elements while their lives hang in the balance! And to have a romance come from that is just icing on the cake. I absolutely loved this book--I could not put it down and read it in one sitting (and thank god I had the time to do that!) I admired Anna and T.J. so much...what they faced and how they managed to survive...I was filled with nothing but admiration for them. And for it to have lasted (view spoiler) [ for 3 years on that island? And what brought about their rescue? (hide spoiler) ] I know this story has been optioned for a movie and I cannot wait to see it! T.J. grows up... Let me just finish by saying I adored T.J.! The maturity he showed, both on the island and off, amazed me. His love and need for Anna was real, and believable. And I could totally understand Anna's worries about their relationship, and her doing what she felt she had to do (even though I cried over it). Anyhow, I just loved their romance and felt that after all they had been through, they deserved to be happy. They more than earned it. In case you're wondering, the romance wasn't all that explicit (by today's romance standards), although there definitely was heat. You might have to use your imagination a bit, but the story will definitely grab you and it won't matter that every little detail isn't spelled out. It's the plot and the character development that wowed me, and the romance was an added bonus. If you're on the fence about this one--don't wait any longer! This is definitely a book that I would recommend to not only romance fans, but those who just enjoy a good story . It's a very easy read, and moves at a brisk pace. I was so enthralled with it, I could've read another 50 pages! One of my favorite books of this year rates 5+ stars![\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Christmas present from one of my besties, Jenny . You's da bestest! \u2665 And BUDDY READING WITH MY OTHER JEN! :P Yeeeeeahhhh......soooooo, this is me: And in case you're wondering, that's me, sitting alone and pondering where everything went wrong with this book. Everyone adores it, I mean, for real, everyone , and all I could really fall in love with was TJ. So, as it seems, the cheese stands alone . If it wasn't for the writing, and a certain event that made my blood boil and me see immediate red, th Christmas present from one of my besties, Jenny . You's da bestest! \u2665 And BUDDY READING WITH MY OTHER JEN! :P Yeeeeeahhhh......soooooo, this is me: And in case you're wondering, that's me, sitting alone and pondering where everything went wrong with this book. Everyone adores it, I mean, for real, everyone , and all I could really fall in love with was TJ. So, as it seems, the cheese stands alone . If it wasn't for the writing, and a certain event that made my blood boil and me see immediate red, then I assume this might have gotten a 4 or 5-depending on said things being rectified in a Chelsea-friendly manner. I'm actually really not as picky as I sound, but when there is horrid writing from beginning to end, choppy sentences and paragraphs, time lapses, I can't help but to cringe and feel my book OCD kick in. \u201cDon\u2019t let go,\u201d I whispered. \u201cI wasn\u2019t going to.\u201d I mean....however many years on the island in less than 50%? I don't know why, but this really bugged me. And the fact that they attempted-Yes, it was attempted, at best-to wrestle a shark *Scoff*? Come. The fuck. On. I mean..... really?? When I realized she wasn\u2019t pissed at me, I smiled and said, \u201cYou know what, Anna? You\u2019re all right.\u201d \u201cI\u2019m glad you think so.\u201d \u201cI really was looking for your REO Speedwagon T-shirt, but I can\u2019t find it.\u201d \u201cIt\u2019s hanging on the line. It should be dry.\u201d \u201cThanks.\u201d \u201cSure. Just don\u2019t smell my underwear anymore, okay?\u201d \u201cYou saw that, huh?\u201d \u201cYeah.\u201d But there were absolutely adorable moments as well, things that I wouldn't have wanted to miss. I mean, there was TJ, for instance, another book boy that I wish I could lift out of this story and place into another one. And then there was their precious pet who, thanks to my newly adopted life style, really hit close to home and took permanent residence in my heart. And even their relationship was absolutely adorable- I just couldn't stomach the writing . And, as everyone knows about me, sometimes I just. Can't. Get past. The writing. \u201cWhat\u2019s wrong?\u201d T.J. asked. \u201cI won\u2019t always look like this.\u201d \u201cWhat do you mean?\u201d \u201cI\u2019m thirteen years older than you, and I\u2019m getting older every day. I won\u2019t always look like this.\u201d \u201cI know that, Anna. But if you think I only care about what you look like, then you don\u2019t know me as well as I thought you did.\u201d So, you know, I could keep spouting about the unbelievability of this story...or accept it for what it was and admit I enjoyed it quite immensely. There were so many great ideas , yet they were poorly executed. And as much as I would have adored this, there were just two things that really got under my skin that hindered my love of the story. And, many times, it made me more sad than happy-that was a big factor in my rating, as well. When I put it down, I forgot about it, and when I finished, I was happy, but still pissed. So....I give three stars for TJ and their adorable love and relationship. But with 50% in Chicago..this story severely suffered. I'm so sad this wasn't an instant favorite for me. And, I'm sorry, but it all comes down to one simple fact: The writing and chunky time lapses were more tragic than their plane wreck . Sorry not sorry. Oh hey, but here are some parting survival pictures, though, of my favorite castaway. He copes in the only way he can... \"We're optimistic, Ira and I\" >.< For more of my reviews, please visit: ...more With every page, I kept asking myself, why did this author self publish? Who was the fool that turned her down? Her writing is extremly polished, her character's are deeply likeable. I could not put it down! The only part I found unbelievable were in fact, the dolphins :) I am an immediate and lifelong fan of this author.", "Title": "On the Island"},
