{"Comments": "(Disclosure: I used to work at <---A>Stephen King</---A>'s publisher and read <+++>Doctor Sleep</+++> in December 2012.<---F>) Get ready</---F>. If I can make just one recommendation: whether you're a longtime King fan or fairly new to his stuff, it wouldn't be the worst thing to read The Shining before you get your hands on <+++>Doctor Sleep</+++> . Seasoned fans know that the movie,<---M> while engrossing in its own right</---M>, is very different in many ways, and doesn't even begin to plumb the psychological depths that the book does. You could read an (Disclosure: I used to work at Stephen King's publisher and read Doctor Sleep in December 2012.) Get ready. If I can make just one recommendation: whether you're a longtime King fan or fairly new to his stuff, it wouldn't be the worst thing to read The Shining before you get your hands on Doctor Sleep . Seasoned fans know that the movie, while engrossing in its own right, is very different in many ways, and doesn't even begin to plumb the psychological depths that the book does. You could read and love Doctor Sleep without doing so, but I think people's experiences of this sequel will only be enriched by first checking out one of the mothers of all horror novels. ...more A sequel, huh? I didn't feel much for Danny when I was going through The Shining since Jack Torrance pretty much had me by the balls, but I guess - this being a Stephen King book - I can give it a try. Oh, who am I kidding? Remember that psychic little kid in The Shining ? Have you ever wondered what he\u2019d be like as an adult after surviving a haunted hotel that drove his drunken father crazy and gave him a case of the redrums? If so, you\u2019re in luck because Stephen King has now told us what happened to <---C>Danny Torrance</---C>, and he\u2019s just as screwed up from his experience as you\u2019d expect him to be. Like his father, Dan has grown up to be a bad tempered drunk, and he uses the booze to blot out his psychic powers as he drifts Remember that psychic little kid in The Shining ? Have you ever wondered what he\u2019d be like as an adult after surviving a haunted hotel that drove his drunken father crazy and gave him a case of the redrums? If so, you\u2019re in luck because Stephen King has now told us what happened to Danny Torrance, and he\u2019s just as screwed up from his experience as you\u2019d expect him to be. Like his father, Dan has grown up to be a bad tempered drunk, and he uses the booze to blot out his psychic powers as he drifts from town to town working menial jobs. The early part of the book focuses on Dan hitting bottom, and then trying to pull himself together with the help of Alcoholics Anonymous. He winds up with a job as an orderly at a hospice where he earns the nickname of Doctor Sleep for his ability to provide an easier death for the patients. Dan becomes aware of a little girl named Abra with a shining ability that dwarfs his own, but unfortunately Abra has also come to the attention of group of vampire like creatures calling themselves the True Knot. They pretend to be humans who roam the country as a harmless pack of tourists in RVs while they track down and feed on the psychic energy collected from torturing children with the shining, and Abra would be like an all-you-can-eat buffet to them. This book is almost two separate stories. One is about Dan Torrance struggling to come to terms with the legacy of his father, his abilities and his alcoholism. The other is about the battle to save a little girl from a pack of vicious monsters. King does a decent job of trying to make these two tales intersect while revisiting some elements from The Shining , but it ends up feeling like less than the sum of its parts. Frankly, I was far more interested in Dan\u2019s battle with the bottle than another Stephen King story about a child in danger from a supernatural threat. It\u2019s not that Abra vs. the True Knot is bad. There\u2019s a lot of genuinely creepy dread to be mined from a pack of psychic vampires roaming the country while posing as harmless middle aged farts, and King knows how to milk every drop out of that concept. And I liked the character of Abra a lot. The idea of a powerfully psychic young girl with a bit of a mean streak was great. Kinda like if Carrie White would have had decent parents and a happy childhood. In fact, Abra\u2019s a little bit too powerful because she seems fully capable of kicking ass even during her first encounter with the True Knot. So while there\u2019s a lot of nice build-up, most of what happens seems anti-climatic. (view spoiler) [ Abra and Dan pretty much settle the True Knot\u2019s hash with only minor injuries to a supporting character and no real lasting damage. That just seems weird in a Stephen King novel which generally feature wholesale carnage and a lot more collateral damage from the bad guys. (hide spoiler) ] Plus, while there\u2019s some callbacks to The Shining , they mostly feel tacked on, as if King had this basic idea and then figured out ways to work in Dan\u2019s history where he could. It\u2019s not really organic and doesn\u2019t seem necessary. I also think there\u2019s a gaping plot hole in the True Knot\u2019s key motivation to grab Abra and their scheme. (view spoiler) [ Supposedly the TKs have been around for a very long time, and yet it\u2019s the measles they get from taking the steam from a kid that sickens them so that they think they need Abra because she\u2019s been vaccinated. So in all their years of kid killing, including back in olden days of yore, they never snatched a kid with measles or chicken pox or polio or typhoid or something? And somehow all the children they\u2019ve taken in modern times weren\u2019t vaccinated against measles? None of this made a lot of sense to me. (hide spoiler) ] One word of warning for those who have only seen the movie and not read the book, King is basing this on his version, not the film and there a couple of significant differences. (I got a laugh that King couldn\u2019t resist taking yet another shot at the Kubrick adaptation in the author\u2019s note afterwards. I don\u2019t think he\u2019s ever getting over his dislike of the movie.) Also, I listened to the audio version of this, and the narration by Will Patton is simply outstanding. I feared the idea of King returning to one of his best known works, but it turned out to be a remarkably solid effort with a lot of things I liked about it. I only wish that that I\u2019d have found the rest of the book as compelling as finding out what kind of man the kid from the Overlook Hotel grew up to be. ...more Dan: Hi, I was a total scumbag, meaning I once swiped a few bucks, a horrible horrible thing for which I'll never forgive myself, and, oh yeah, almost forgot, I used to get in bar fights all the time and I for all I know, I killed people during a blackout. Anyhoo, nowadays I'm heroic. Seriously, I'm pretty much a saint. I have magic powers and it never even crosses my mind to profit from them. Abra: Hi, I'm a totally normal teen, you can tell because of all my pop references! Game of Thrones! Fru Dan: Hi, I was a total scumbag, meaning I once swiped a few bucks, a horrible horrible thing for which I'll never forgive myself, and, oh yeah, almost forgot, I used to get in bar fights all the time and I for all I know, I killed people during a blackout. Anyhoo, nowadays I'm heroic. Seriously, I'm pretty much a saint. I have magic powers and it never even crosses my mind to profit from them. Abra: Hi, I'm a totally normal teen, you can tell because of all my pop references! Game of Thrones! Fruit Ninja! I'm also all heroic, like, totally! I also have no imagination at all, just like Dan. Both: Together, we fight crime! Rose: Hi, I'm Rose, I'm super scary! Did you notice how convenient it is that we can't fly in planes? I mean, convenient for the heroes, not for me. We also are too good to use guns, despite the fact that we're as easy to kill, if not easier, than an ordinary human. Seriously, how the hell did we survive in medieval Europe, when getting around was a serious ordeal? Especially when me and my gang are hilariously incompetent. Anyway, I have a really cool hat. ...more There is a boy (now a man) a girl, a band of baddies with a charismatic leader, a coalition of the willing, battles to be fought, supernatural elements and magical powers. Stephen King was at this long before Harry Potter lived under the stairs. He has a preternatural (not to say supernatural) talent for writing kids, and can keep you turning pages, losing sleep, and getting back late to work from your lunch breaks. We will presume for the purposes of this review that you have read, or at least s There is a boy (now a man) a girl, a band of baddies with a charismatic leader, a coalition of the willing, battles to be fought, supernatural elements and magical powers. Stephen King was at this long before Harry Potter lived under the stairs. He has a preternatural (not to say supernatural) talent for writing kids, and can keep you turning pages, losing sleep, and getting back late to work from your lunch breaks. We will presume for the purposes of this review that you have read, or at least seen one version of The Shining . If you have not, read no further, as there are details here that would be considered spoilerish were they to appear in a review of that book. And if you have not read The Shining you should probably do so before taking on Doctor Sleep , a sequel. Ok, everyone here has read The Shining , yes? All right, but we are using the honor system here, and do not want to ruin the fun of reading that one for anyone. So, as long as you\u2019re sure\u2026 At the end of The Shining , three people survive the carnage, Danny Torrance, a five year old with a special gift, Wendy Torrance, Danny\u2019s mother and newly widowed wife of the late Jack Torrance, and Dick Halloran, an employee of The Overlook and possessor of a gift like Danny\u2019s, one that allowed him to hear Danny\u2019s psychic 911 call and return from his home in Florida in time to do something about it. What happened next? from King\u2019s site King does not typically do sequels, if one does not count books that are part of a planned series, but Every now and then somebody would ask, \u2018Whatever happened to Danny?\u2019 I used to joke around and say, \u2018He married Charlie McGee from Firestarter and they had these amazing kids!\u2019 But I did sort of wonder about it. \u2013 (from EW ) One of the central features of The Shining was Jack\u2019s Torrance\u2019s battle with alcoholism. As with the real world, King\u2019s fictional realm notes that alcoholism runs in families. And one of the criticisms of The Shining was that the possibility of Jack considering getting some help from AA is never even raised. If King has ever considered that to have been an oversight, I have not seen that interview. But it is clear that he has given the matter some thought. Jack Torrance never tries Alcoholics Anonymous. That is never even mentioned in \"The Shining.\" He has what they call white-knuckle sobriety. He's doing it all by himself. So, I wondered what it would be like to see Danny first as an alcoholic, and then see him in AA. (from an NPR Interview ) It gives nothing away to let you know that Danny is a true Torrance. Not only does he self-medicate to quiet the terrors that still haunt him, he is far from the best person he can be. I knew if I did this sequel I\u2019d have to try to put together some of the same elements, but at the same time I didn\u2019t want to make it too similar. I didn\u2019t want to make Danny a grown up with kids of his own, and try to replicate that whole losing-your-temper-because-you\u2019re-drunk thing. But I did think to myself: \u2018Not only alcoholism can be a family disease, but rage can be a family disease.\u2019 You find that the guys who abuse their children were abused themselves as kids. That certainly fit Danny as I knew him. \u2013 from EW All SK novels require a baddie, or a set of them. No disappointment here. King has again succeeded in taking the ordinary and making it horrifying. Driving back and forth from Maine to Florida, which I do twice a year, I\u2019m always seeing all these recreational vehicles \u2014 the bounders in the Winnebagos. I always think to myself, \u2018Who is in those things?\u2019 You pass them a thousand times at rest stops. They\u2019re always the ones wearing the shirts that say \u2018God Does Not Deduct From a Lifespan Time Spent Fishing.\u2019 They\u2019re always lined up at the McDonald\u2019s, slowing the whole line down. And I always thought to myself, \u2018There\u2019s something really sinister about those people because they\u2019re so unobtrusive, yet so pervasive.\u2019 I just wanted to use that. It would be the perfect way to travel around America and be unobtrusive if you were really some sort of awful creature. \u2013 from EW This wandering band call themselves The True Knot . They feed on the essence of those gifted with the sort of talent people like Danny possess. It provides them with extraordinary longevity, but as with their Transylvanian counterparts, the need is ongoing and the supply is limited. Like right-wing politicians they are more than happy to gorge on the pain of others and are shown here feasting on the spirits set adrift on 9/11. The usual condiments for this substance they call steam will not do. The taste and benefit is enhanced, however, if their victims endure extreme and prolonged torture. Does Ted Cruz drive a Winnebago? King gives the members Damon Runyon-esque names, like Crow Daddy, Steamboat Steve and Tommy the Truck. By the time you finish reading Doctor Sleep you might have a new image of the top hat to consider next time you are planning a formal night out. We all have one, probably this one: But the baddie in Stephen King\u2019s latest is likely to do for the top hat what this guy did for the derby. Rose O\u2019Hara, the leader of a group called The True Knot, won\u2019t leave home without it. It adds a nice visual element, calling to mind a certain Caribbean Baron, and making Rosie even more riveting. And what of our young heroine? Abra is born with a shining of prodigious proportions. (btw, the name Abra was inspired by Abra Bacon, a character in East of Eden ) She manages to send out a signal even when she is newly arrived. She\u2019s a good kid, despite scaring her parents on occasion with tricks like making all the silverware in the kitchen take to the air, or causing the odd earthquake when she does a mental Bruce (or if you prefer, David) Banner. Don\u2019t make her angry. You wouldn\u2019t like her when she\u2019s angry. Bad-ass teen girl power fuh shoo-uh. But, just as Danny needed Dick Hallorann and Tony, Abra needs help as well. That she and Danny will team up is a foregone conclusion. As for Danny, the shining never left him, despite his attempts to wipe it out with spirits of a different sort. But he finds the help he needs and manages to put his talent to good use. He works in a hospice, the Helen Rivington House, in Frazier, NH, easing the transition for those near death, with the assistance of a resident feline, and earning himself the name Doctor Sleep , which also serves to remind us of what his parents called him. \u2026It is this moment of transition that Doctor Sleep deals with and the idea, like so many of King's, came from an incidental story in a newspaper. This one was about \"a cat in a hospice that knows when people are going to die. He would go into that patient's room and curl up next to them. And I thought, that's a good advertisement for death, for the emissary of death. I thought, 'I can make Dan the human equivalent of that cat, and call him Doctor Sleep.' There was the book.\" \u2013 from an interview in The Guardian King has a bit of fun, naming the cat Azzie, short for Azreel, the archangel of death. Cute. What else do you need, really? Dark vs light, colorful baddies vs our everyman and everygirl. And that is indeed enough. But it is not all that King uses. He gives us a look at how people can really help people overcome, or at least handle their problems. When asked, in the NPR interview, whether his AA depictions were from personal experience, King says that the second part of AA stands for Anonymous, so he declined to offer a yes or no, however You could say, having read these two books and knowing that I was a very heavy drinker at the time that I wrote \"The Shining,\" and I haven't had a drink in about 25 years now - you could draw certain conclusions from that\u2026I've done a lot of personal research in these subjects. - from NPR interview AA figures very large in this story, is central really. And the wisdom one can find in AA permeates the novel, from the importance of recognizing that we need help from others, to accepting our past and dealing with it, a very strong, serious element. King sets the time of the events by referring to external realities, like who the president is, calls on contemporary cultural references, such as a mention of the Sons of Anarchy and a Hank Wiliams Jr song. He also mentions a variety of other writers in his travels, some approvingly, (John Sandford, George Seferis, Bernard Malamud, Bill Wilson) some not so much (the authors of the Twilight and Hunger Games series, and Dean Koontz and Lisa Gardner, although he may merely be playing with the latter two). He also drops in an Easter egg reference to Salem\u2019s Lot and make two references (that I caught anyway) to his son, Joe\u2019s, imagined world from Joe\u2019s book, NOS4A2 . It has been my experience with reading Stephen King that his conclusions sometimes offer a poor partner to the journey one takes in reaching them. That is much less the case here. The ending is not an alien spider disguised as Tim Curry with bad fashion sense or alien young playing with humans in a ham-fisted manner. And the journey is indeed fun. But I had some gripes. King gives Dick Hallorann a cameo here, which was fine, and the strongest of those. Tony returns for a look-see but goes alarmingly quiet at crucial moments. We could have used a lot more about Tony other than the weak explanation that is offered near the end. If the True Knot are so bad-ass, how come there are so few of them? There is an explanation offered of prey-predator stability of numbers, but I found that unpersuasive. And why the hell introduce (view spoiler) [Jack if he is not going to be a part of the action? (hide spoiler) ] This is one that actively irked. Sequels present a danger. One of the things that is stimulating about any book, any story is newness. That is why most sequels are not as popular as their predecessors. It is hard to avoid a been-there-done-that problem when working atop existing material. The next story in line is unlikely to retain the sparkle, the shine of what went before. Given the constraints, Doctor Sleep fares better than most as a follow-on. There is enough distance in the story from the events of the past, and little enough overlap with those characters that the story seems fresh. When events from The Shining are mentioned, they do inform the current action and do not distract much. In fact there could have been more of that. So, in that way, this is a very nice addition. There is another element involved. Any event, any activity, is a product of the thing itself and of the perspective from which we view or participate in it. I read The Shining many years ago. I was an adult then, in my late twenties, and remember it as a VERY SCARY story. I have not come across much in horror lit that is still scary in that way, in the several decades since. I will not have any nights (on in my case days) of lost sleep because of the images King has proferred. But then, I am getting on, and am looking at those scary things with aging eyes. Someone younger (which would be almost all of you reading this) might find them far more frightening than I did. So while Doctor Sleep might not cause much by way of lost rest, it is good, mainstream Stephen King and thus, hardly a snooze. The Doctor of Horror is in. Wake up! Posted October 4, 2013 This review is cross-posted at Coot's Reviews ============================= EXTRA STUFF This is a wonderful interview with The Guardian And another, this one from NPR Here is SK\u2019s site And a top notch review by Sam Leith in The Observer section of The Guardian \u2013 I promise I did not read this until after I finished writing mine. But I confess to pangs of jealousy A few other King Family items I have reviewed By Stephen The Shining Under the Dome Duma Key Lisey's Story And by Joe Hill NOS4A2 20th Century Ghosts Heart-Shaped Box 12/3/13 - The results are in and Doctor Sleep was voted the Goodreads Choice Award winner for horror 12/16/13 - Doctor Sleep was named one of the best fiction books of 2013 by Kirkus[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Dan Torrance grew up to be an alcoholic, just like his father. But now he's in recovery and working in a hospice where he uses his Shine to comfort people when they die. But what is his connection to a young girl named Abra Stone? And what does The True Knot, a traveling group of RV people, want with her? After all the glimpses shown in NOS4A2 , I knew I'd be reading this one hot off the presses. Was I disappointed? Well, I don't think it was a home run. I loved the story of Dan Torrance, recoverin Dan Torrance grew up to be an alcoholic, just like his father. But now he's in recovery and working in a hospice where he uses his Shine to comfort people when they die. But what is his connection to a young girl named Abra Stone? And what does The True Knot, a traveling group of RV people, want with her? After all the glimpses shown in NOS4A2 , I knew I'd be reading this one hot off the presses. Was I disappointed? Well, I don't think it was a home run. I loved the story of Dan Torrance, recovering from his experience at the Overlook with his parents in The Shining , only to become an alcoholic just like his old man. His road to recovery was well done and I loved how the connection to Abra Stone unfolded. Dan's friends were well done and I found myself dreading which one of them would die at the bloody conclusion, as is the fate of many Stephen King supporting cast members. There were some nice Easter eggs in Doctor Sleep. Charles Manx, Castle Rock, the Dark Tower, and probably a few others I've already forgotten. When Dan got a job at TeenyTown, I had flashbacks of Joyland. Maybe Joyland started life as a fragment of Doctor Sleep that got cut out like a bad appendix. Also, I have a feeling Stephen King read a book about carnies and felt the need to work as much lingo into his work as possible. Another thing I loved was the True Knot. I love the idea of a bunch of psychic vampires riding around in RVs, draining kids of their Shine to rejuvenate them. Rosie the Hat was pretty vile and her compatriots were almost as bad. I almost feared for Abra Stone's life. Almost. My main problem with the book is that Abra was too damn powerful and I never thought for a moment that she wouldn't survive. When she outmaneuvers the bad guys at every turn, there's no sense of jeopardy. The ending was straight from the Nerf factory. I don't remember another Stephen King book where so many of the good guys survived the final encounter. Still, it was a fun read and there were some tense moments. We'll call it a 3.5. ...more I hesitated to read DOCTOR SLEEP for about a minute. I was worried that it wouldn't live up to The Shining, and everything would be ruined. RUINED! [image error] Luckily that was not the case at all. I should have had more faith in Stephen King's love and respect for these characters. I am sorry for ever doubting you Stephen. [image error] A tribe of people called The True Knot travel around the United States- by RV- in search of children with \"The Shining\". These children have what The True Knot f I hesitated to read DOCTOR SLEEP for about a minute. I was worried that it wouldn't live up to The Shining, and everything would be ruined. RUINED! [image error] Luckily that was not the case at all. I should have had more faith in Stephen King's love and respect for these characters. I am sorry for ever doubting you Stephen. [image error] A tribe of people called The True Knot travel around the United States- by RV- in search of children with \"The Shining\". These children have what The True Knot feeds off, something they call \"steam\". Their leader- Rose \"The Hat\" learns of a little girl -named Abra- that will keep them in steam for a very long time. Danny Torrance is all grown up, but far from happy. He is still haunted by his past. To numb the pain, and keep the ghosts at bay, he follows in his fathers footsteps with the bottle. Dan finally settles down in a little town in New Hampshire , joins AA, and finds a little bit of peace...until one day he starts receiving strange telepathic messages from a little girl named Abra. Abra needs his help. Call me crazy, but I think I liked DOCTOR SLEEP more than I liked The Shining. I could be terribly wrong because I haven't read The Shining in years, but I certainly loved grown up Danny waaaaaaay more than I liked Jack, and I loved Abra more than I liked Danny as a child. One thing I do know as a fact... I will never look at \"innocent\" summer vacationers travelling in RVs the same. EVER! [image error] ...more Being a big fan of Stephen King, especially his early work, I waited with nervous anticipation for Dr. Sleep. I reread The Shining for the first time in years, just to reacquaint myself with the world of Danny Torrance and the Overlook Hotel. It was on my kindle within minutes of it being released, and I spent the past two afternoons ignoring housework in favor of diving into one of Kings rare sequels. So how does it measure up? The correct answer to that is \u201cit depends.\u201d If you are looking for a d Being a big fan of Stephen King, especially his early work, I waited with nervous anticipation for Dr. Sleep. I reread The Shining for the first time in years, just to reacquaint myself with the world of Danny Torrance and the Overlook Hotel. It was on my kindle within minutes of it being released, and I spent the past two afternoons ignoring housework in favor of diving into one of Kings rare sequels. So how does it measure up? The correct answer to that is \u201cit depends.\u201d If you are looking for a direct sequel to The Shining that recaptures the same sense of claustrophobic terror as the original, you are going to be disappointed. It does try to go for scares here and there, but on that level it comes nowhere close to it\u2019s predecessor. If, on the other hand, you are looking for the next story in the life of Danny Torrance then you will probably find this much more satisfying. Dan Torrance is a grown man and an alcoholic who has hit rock bottom and is now trying to recover. He works at a hospice where he uses his talent to help dying patients pass over. Over time he becomes aware of another child with The Shining, and this girl is far more powerful than he was. But there is a group of \u201cpsychic vampires\u201d roaming the country and feeding on children who shine, and he is going to get drawn into defending her against these monsters. Sadly, I think the monsters are one of the areas where this book falls short of what it could have been. They simply aren\u2019t very frightening, and the one scene where they kidnap a boy to devour feels tacked on as if the author was trying to make them scarier while introducing a plot device for later. The problem here is that the author spends too much time in the heads of his bad guys. King is a master of characterization, and that shows with many of the characters in this book. You feel real sympathy for Dan Torrance, and connect with several of the other characters as well. At the same time though, he seems to have let that lead him to actually overdevelop some of the bad guys to the point they are merely antagonists, and just don\u2019t inspire fear at all. Rose the Hat is no Walking Dude. Heck, despite her powers she isn\u2019t even as scary as Jack Torrance was. But that is really the only flaw of the book. So the effect of it is, that as a horror book it\u2019s not all that effective, but as a layered story with interesting characters possessing psychic powers, it succeeds in all kinds of ways. I absolutely do recommend this book, but just take it on its own merits. I give it four stars. ...more That cover is the epitome of perfection. So perfect that is should be on my shelves. Like, right now. I'm waiting. *stares at bookshelves* EDIT: I'M GETTING AN ARC OF THIS MY LIFE IS OFFICIALLY MADE Once upon a time, there was a girl. She liked to read, but was at a crossroads between being too old for childish books, and a bit too young for cheesy romance novels with Fabio on the cover. The girl loved scary movies and all things horror and wondered if maybe there were things written like that. She asked the librarian, who handed her a book. The girl ran home and closed herself up in her room. She sat down and started to read a book called Carrie , by an author named Stephen King. She devour Once upon a time, there was a girl. She liked to read, but was at a crossroads between being too old for childish books, and a bit too young for cheesy romance novels with Fabio on the cover. The girl loved scary movies and all things horror and wondered if maybe there were things written like that. She asked the librarian, who handed her a book. The girl ran home and closed herself up in her room. She sat down and started to read a book called Carrie , by an author named Stephen King. She devoured that book and went on to read every single book by her new favorite author, including those under the name Richard Bachman. When those ran out, she explored different authors like Koontz, Saul, Cook, and Crichton, just to name a few. So many doors were opened and so many journeys taken, worlds explored, over many years. Maybe I'll get back to this story a bit later. When I heard that Doctor Sleep was coming out I immediately pre-ordered it on Amazon. I rarely do this, but for King I tend to make exceptions. Finally, the other day my Kindle got a present. I'll admit, for the first 15% of the book it was a bit slow for me. I started to panic, envisioning Under the Dome, which sits on my kindle shelf. A book that I've tried to read twice, without success. I didn't want Doctor Sleep, which features one of my favorite characters, to fall by the wayside and have the same fate. Luckily it picked up and I was trapped in the pages. Doctor Sleep is said to be The Shining 2. While some parts of this may be true, for the most part it's a standalone. You do not have to read The Shining to read this. Read it anyway because it's fuckawesome . There is no spooktastic Overlook Hotel, it has long ago perished. The only real connection between the two books is Dan, our main. Dan, who was a five year old scared little boy in The Shining, now a man. A man who is a fucked up alcoholic hot mess. The villains aren't ghosts of a haunted hotel, but beings (like vampires, I guess), who kill children who Shine. Sucking up their essence as they die. I won't say more about the story. I'm not here to give a full blown play by play, because in essence, then why would you need to read the book? I can say this. If someone who had never read Stephen King, asked me if this should be their first book, I would say no. I would send them the direction of Cujo or Pet Sematary, or Carrie, Salem's Lot. This is a quieter Stephen King. It is not a horror story. There's no hiding under the blankets or checking the drain in the bathroom, looking for a creepy clown named Pennywise. The bad guys aren't scary. More like washed up. Shadows of what a bad guy should be. Stephen King knows how to write villains. Randall Flagg, Pennywise, Cujo, a baby named Gage, even a prison guard named Percy. I repeat, this is really not a horror story. For those of us who have read The Shining, what a joy it was to see some characters we loved from that book. I wish Tony had more of a story, I'm always curious about him. Perhaps a book for Tony, Mr. King? For me, reading Dan again was like meeting an old friend after many years. He was forever frozen as a boy in my mind. Now he has come full circle. When you finish a book, normally that's it. Time goes on, you read new books, get involved with new characters. They, in turn, become frozen. What a gift to be able to revisit a character after all this time. My final thoughts. I highly recommend this book. If you're holding out because you haven't read The Shining, don't. Doctor Sleep is well written, snarky at times as only Mr. King can be, and will suck you in. I even cried once or twice, yes, from The Master of Horror. 5 Ninja-Bunnehs-Writing-REDRUM Now after my ramblings are you still here, or have you forgotten the tale in the beginning of the review? If you're wondering what happened to the girl, well, she grew up and became a woman. Did she get a HEA? I don't know yet. I do know that she owes a love of reading to a certain author. How do you know, you ask? Well, because. Once upon a time, long ago, I sat down to read a book called Carrie , by an author named Stephen King. My journey isn't over. ...more OMG THIS IS MY 2013 BIRTHDAY PRESENT! :D I LOVE YOU, STEPHEN KING! ------- After Goodreads decided to unveil their new censorship policy regarding author behavior reviews and shelves (sorry, let me be accurate: NEGATIVE author behavior reviews and shelves...), I decided that I wasn't going to review on Goodreads anymore. I created a Booklikes account (Meh...) and already have a blog, and I decided that I would review there instead of on Goodreads. But then this past week happened. Stephen King rel OMG THIS IS MY 2013 BIRTHDAY PRESENT! :D I LOVE YOU, STEPHEN KING! ------- After Goodreads decided to unveil their new censorship policy regarding author behavior reviews and shelves (sorry, let me be accurate: NEGATIVE author behavior reviews and shelves...), I decided that I wasn't going to review on Goodreads anymore. I created a Booklikes account (Meh...) and already have a blog, and I decided that I would review there instead of on Goodreads. But then this past week happened. Stephen King released Doctor Sleep on my birthday (as mentioned above), and then on Friday, I met up with a friend and drove to Cambridge, MA to see King read from the book and do a bit of Q&A. The friend I met up with was one that I met through Goodreads. And while in Massachusetts, I met another Goodreads friend, and we hung out and had a great time. And I've come to realize that the social/community aspect of this site is worth far more to me than reviewing in solitary confinement on my blog. In a way, I'm a little disappointed in myself, because I am adamantly against GR's new policy in principle, and extremely disappointed and upset with GR about it, but I know that in the end, whether I review here or not makes no difference because I'd still BE here, generating site traffic, because of my friends and the community I still want to be a part of. Goodreads: 1 Becky: 0 So, let's set the sappy kumbaya shit aside, and get to the review. The Shining is one of my Top 5 all time favorite books, and has been for 20 years, and so it was a scary thought that Doctor Sleep could potentially change how I feel about it. Thankfully, that wasn't the case, but I will say that my opinion of Jack is a little... altered. The Shining is all about Jack Torrance for me; The Overlook, and even Danny, are secondary. Jack's character is so realistic that he could step off the page, swinging his roque mallet, and bellowing \"Come here, pup!\"... and that's what makes him fascinating and terrifying to me to this day. But I love him, and I have pretty definite opinions of his character: Jack was a fundamentally good but flawed person with asshole tendencies, who was dealt a shitty hand in life, and got in over his head in a situation that he couldn't understand and was massively unprepared for. He was always going to lose against the Overlook, but had he avoided that place, I'm certain that he'd have broken the cycle of alcoholism and violence. Now, after reading Doctor Sleep, I don't think I can say that my faith in him is shaken, but just that there's a crack along the line that separates \"fundamentally good\" from \"asshole\". How much of that crack can be blamed on the alcohol is debatable. Probably a lot... but I think that would be a cop-out and honestly I think Jack knows better than that. Right...? So, coming back to Doctor Sleep, I've always felt that Stephen King looked at Danny as his fictional son. I commented on this to my friend on the drive up to Boston, because I was surprised at where King imagined Danny to end up. Of course it made sense, but I wonder if it hurt King to write him there... drunk, and hitting his rock bottom, and wanting desperately to find a good place to escape his own personal demons. I hope it did, because, even though Danny doesn't hold the same place in my heart as Jack, seeing him come back into the world as a violent drunk who hates who he's become was a little painful for me, considering his familial history. I so wanted him to avoid that. *cough* What? Unfortunately, I can't say Doctor Sleep came anywhere close to being as great as The Shining, but it was very good for what it was. There were times when I felt that things were rushed along a little bit, and timees that things were a bit too easy, and times when the build-up overshadowed the reveal, especially in regards to the final showdown, but for being a continuation of Danny's story, it was good. I liked the person he grew into being, and I liked that he used his ability to help those at the end of their lives. I couldn't imagine doing something like that though, seeing the lives of so many people, so intimately, and caring enough to stick it through with them to the end, when even their own family couldn't, or wouldn't. That would be too much for me, but it makes me oddly proud that Danny was able to do it. As far as Abra... I dunno. I'm more ambivalent about her. I feel like I was supposed to love her, but I just... didn't. Things were just so easy for her, since she was so powerful in the shining, and on top of that, she had a support system - two parents, Danny, Billy, and John. And she was more than twice Danny's age when he had to fight for his life, alone. So I just didn't really feel all that concerned about her, as unfair as it may be. I feel like King went easy on her. I also wanted to know more about the True Knot. I wanted to truly fear them, but aside from their ruthlessness and their obvious financial means helping them to get away with it, I didn't find them particularly frightening. I wanted more along the lines of Horace Derwent and the dead woman from Room 217, and what I got was the Wicked Witch of the West. Hat and all. In a way, Doctor Sleep was quite a bit like Black House, and I imagine that people will compare them. I don't think that as stories go they do compare to each other much once they get going, aside from the fact that they both revisit characters who experienced crazy events in their childhood after a long gap of time and catch up with their adult selves. I really enjoyed Black House, and feel the same about Doctor Sleep. And, as with both big-gap sequels, I like that they were doorways into King's larger universe, and now Joe Hill's as well. Some great little Easter Eggs to find there, and I loved that. So, overall... I liked it quite a lot, but I don't think that it lives up to The Shining. It's a good continuation of Danny's story, and a good standalone novel as well (because it CAN be read that way, if you don't mind getting the really short and sweet version of a recap of The Shining), and I'd definitely recommend it to King fans. ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ 4.5 Stars Have you ever caught yourself, maybe while reading a Stephen King book or maybe just at some random moment, wondering whatever happened to little Danny Torrance? Lucky for all of us Stephen King did too. Doctor Sleep picks up where The Shining left off. It briefly covers the aftermath of the experiences at the Overlook Hotel before fast-forwarding in increments of presidential terms through Dan\u2019s life. If you have been a reade Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ 4.5 Stars Have you ever caught yourself, maybe while reading a Stephen King book or maybe just at some random moment, wondering whatever happened to little Danny Torrance? Lucky for all of us Stephen King did too. Doctor Sleep picks up where The Shining left off. It briefly covers the aftermath of the experiences at the Overlook Hotel before fast-forwarding in increments of presidential terms through Dan\u2019s life. If you have been a reader of Stephen King for 25 years like I have, you\u2019ll notice that his style has changed significantly. Now I know that haters are gonna hate and some want the \u201cMaster of Horror\u201d to just horrify them, but I am delighted with Stephen King 2.0. Ever since coming back from hiatus after his near-death experience, it seems to me that King\u2019s novels have taken on a new life that they did not have before. Not only has he written things that I don\u2019t think the \u201cold King\u201d would have written ( 11/22/63 , Joyland , etc.), but he writes with so much more character depth and with very little emphasis on obtaining a \u201ccreep out factor\u201d. If you/your book club/whatever is looking for a terrifying book for Halloween, Doctor Sleep is not it. On the other hand, if you want a rock-solid novel that you will literally not be willing to separate yourself from until you are finished, this one is a winner. (My poor family was 100% neglected for 28 hours.) Most importantly, if you have been invested in Danny\u2019s life since waaaaaaay back in the 70s and want to see what became of him, Doctor Sleep will not disappoint. ...more MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List THIS BOOK IS FREAKING AWESOME! I love this is a sequel to The Shining and in the beginning of the book it goes into some things from when Danny was young. Even though Danny, his mom and Dick Halloram survived from the tragic and (scary-as-hell) events that happened at the Overlook Hotel, some of the ghosties come back to haunt Danny. As an adult Dan is traveling around, he's an alcoholic, and he finally lands in a nice little town. He's also trying to get sob MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List THIS BOOK IS FREAKING AWESOME! I love this is a sequel to The Shining and in the beginning of the book it goes into some things from when Danny was young. Even though Danny, his mom and Dick Halloram survived from the tragic and (scary-as-hell) events that happened at the Overlook Hotel, some of the ghosties come back to haunt Danny. As an adult Dan is traveling around, he's an alcoholic, and he finally lands in a nice little town. He's also trying to get sober. What I found in reading the book is that not only did Dan inherit the alcoholism from his father, he started drinking to stop the shining and the bad things it put in his head. But, from time to time his friend Dick's words would come back to him. --->EXCERPTS<--- It will never stop, Danny thought. The Overlook burned and the most terrible revenants went into the lockboxes, but I can't lock away the shining, because it isn't just inside me, it is me. Without booze to at least stun it, these visions will go on until they drive me insane. Then, like a flashlight beam in the dark, Hallorann's voice: Son, you may see things, but they're like pictures in a book. You weren't helpless in the Overlook when you were a child, and you're not helpless now. Far from it. Close your eyes and when you open them, all this crap will be gone. So Danny now Dan lives in the town of Frazier and is a groundskeeper for a little village called Teeny Town. He works with a man that turns out to be a good friend and fellow shiner named Billy Freeman. Billy doesn't have the shining as strong as Dan but it's still there. He gets him the job and the man that runs most of the town gets Dan in AA and it's all going good. Meanwhile, down the way little Abra Stone is born and she is born with a powerful shining. I just love her. She starts contacting Dan when she gets a little older. They are more connected than they know at first, but I'm not telling you what that is :-) A little bit later Dan starts working at Rivington House, it's an elderly home and he helps them when they are going to pass over. He's so very kind to these people and I love this about him. Then.... there are these evil bastards that call themselves the True Knot. They have been around for years, they pray on the deaths of kids with the shining. They suck in their steam. Yeah, it's a little crazy but I like this story line. I don't like these people and couldn't wait to see them strung up in their own knot. They also go to major disasters and stand around sucking in the steam of what I'm guessing anyone with the shining in them that were in the disaster. They have a leader that is the most evil of them all and she's coming after Abra. Beware Rosie the Hat, until she meets her match! I loved this book so much. Just to be taken back into the world of The Shining, I know it's not the same, but to have a book that continued The Shining was so wonderful. It turned out that the True Knot owned a campground that was set up where the Overlook used to be, that opened up a whole new can of worms. There IS something that happened there that brought a tear to my eye :-( I might have to go and watch The Shining today :-) I wish this one was a movie too!! ...more There is just something about Stephen King\u2019s writing that is like the feeling I get after having been out there, working in the real world, after a hard day, fighting deadlines and traffic, often snow, lots of that, then finally coming home. I get all toasty, feet warm, comfortable, with his voice in my head. I soon settled in and listened as he told me the story of Doctor Sleep. Having read The Shining for the first time just last year, it was still fresh in my mind, so where King took Danny Tor There is just something about Stephen King\u2019s writing that is like the feeling I get after having been out there, working in the real world, after a hard day, fighting deadlines and traffic, often snow, lots of that, then finally coming home. I get all toasty, feet warm, comfortable, with his voice in my head. I soon settled in and listened as he told me the story of Doctor Sleep. Having read The Shining for the first time just last year, it was still fresh in my mind, so where King took Danny Torrance here, made sense to me, felt right. But King is not a man of few words and so there are others here; the good and the bad, with histories of their own to share. It is a good story. I know that there are many who bemoan King\u2019s loquaciousness but I love it. Clich\u00e9, perhaps, but this man spins a good yarn. I was hooked from the get go. I am not going to tell you this story, King should. Listen Up! ...more Although technically a sequel to The Shining (published in 1977 and probably Stephen King's scariest and best book - step to me, It fans), this book should not be approached as such, because in reality the two novels have very little in common besides the central characters. This isn't a bad thing - I just want to warn anyone going into this book to get rid of the \"straightforward sequel\" mindset. Doctor Sleep is a sequel to The Shining the way American Gods is a sequel to Anansi Boys . (that's n Although technically a sequel to The Shining (published in 1977 and probably Stephen King's scariest and best book - step to me, It fans), this book should not be approached as such, because in reality the two novels have very little in common besides the central characters. This isn't a bad thing - I just want to warn anyone going into this book to get rid of the \"straightforward sequel\" mindset. Doctor Sleep is a sequel to The Shining the way American Gods is a sequel to Anansi Boys . (that's not the first Neil Gaiman comparison I'm going to make in this review, so prepare yourselves) Doctor Sleep seeks to answer two questions: first, what happens to Danny Torrance after he and his mother escape the demonic Overlook Hotel - what kind of adult does Danny become, and how much of his father has survived in him? Second, what about the others who have the \"shining\" that Dick Hallorann told Danny about? Who are the others who possess gifts like Danny's, and (a central question in King's books) who should they be afraid of? The adult version of Danny, called Dan, is, frankly, a mess. He hasn't been able to avoid the alcoholism that cursed his father and grandfather (there's a whole term paper that could be written on this sickness infecting the Torrance family the way evil infects the Overlook, but I digress), and we see him in some pretty bad situations. Dan eventually starts going to AA meetings and trying to get his addiction under control, and ends up working at a hospice in a small New England town. Dan quickly becomes known as \"Doctor Sleep\" because of how he comforts patients near death, and helps them cross over. Meanwhile, a child named Abra is born, also with the shining. She and Dan have a psychic connection almost immediately, and eventually Dan becomes a sort of mentor/teacher to the teenage Abra. In Doctor Sleep , the villains are not the vengeful ghosts of a cursed hotel, but a group of semi-immortals who call themselves the True Knot. They travel the country in RV's and hunt people with the shining. When they catch them, the True Knot kills these people by torturing them to death and inhaling their souls (they call it \"steam\"). Frankly, that sounds more like it came from a Neil Gaiman book, but I'll go with it (it didn't help that the True Knot's leader is a woman called Rosie the Hat, named for the black silk top hat she always wears, and once I started picturing her as Amanda Palmer I couldn't stop). This is definitely a different story than The Shining . There, we were restricted to a single setting and less than five central characters - Doctor Sleep has dozens of characters and its action spans the country (with a final confrontation at the campground built on the land where the Overlook used to stand, because of course). Again, the fact that the scope of this novel is wider and somewhat more philosophical than The Shining is not a criticism. I liked its insistence on being more than just a haunted house story, which people too often - and unfairly - reduce The Shining to. There's a lot more going on here than just psychics and the monsters who hunt them. My biggest criticism, really, is that the villains are never enough of a threat. It's established almost immediately than Abra is some kind of shining Messiah, with abilities much greater than Dan's. In all of her interactions with the True Knot, it's made clear that they have no idea who they're messing with, and that Abra is more powerful than them. The final plan to confront the Knot at the end goes off without a single hitch, so there's never any real danger of the True Knot winning (and if you really think it's a spoiler for me to say that the good guys win at the end, feel free to let me know in the comments and I will be happy to ignore you). In The Shining , we were constantly reminded that Danny was a child facing undying, unrelenting evil all by himself, and throughout the story you really don't know if he's going to win. The tension that we felt in The Shining is almost gone here, and I was almost too confident in Abra and Dan's ability to defeat the evil that threatened them. A more palpable threat of danger, and this book would have been improved greatly in my eyes. ...more Doctor Sleep is the sequel to The Shining, written almost forty years ago. In my opinion you MUST read The Shining before you read Doctor Sleep because there is so much in this book the correlates to the first - besides The Shining is an awesome book. If you want to cheat and watch the movie of The Shining, starring Jack Nicholson, before reading Doctor Sleep you will miss vital points. The movie really did not concentrate on a lot of the main ingredients of the book. When I first saw Doctor Slee Doctor Sleep is the sequel to The Shining, written almost forty years ago. In my opinion you MUST read The Shining before you read Doctor Sleep because there is so much in this book the correlates to the first - besides The Shining is an awesome book. If you want to cheat and watch the movie of The Shining, starring Jack Nicholson, before reading Doctor Sleep you will miss vital points. The movie really did not concentrate on a lot of the main ingredients of the book. When I first saw Doctor Sleep in the bookstores I gave it a miss. I was skeptical as this was King's first sequel, excluding the Dark Tower series. My concerns were also with the amount of time between the two books and that with the ending of The Shining which direction King would take with a sequel. Now that I have read it I would recommend it to anyone. King has managed a sequel that is strong and well tied into the first book yet is not a sequel. That makes no sense but is true. This is a rare book that you can read as a stand alone thriller/horror and it makes a great read. Treat it as a sequel by reading The Shining first and it makes an outstanding read. So many times we are referred back to scenes and incidents from The Shining while the story moves forward but we are also taken on a completely different ride. It is no secret that Doctor Sleep is based around the adult life of Dan Torrence, the child who spent a year with his family in the Overlook Hotel. Dan has adopted some of his Father's worst traits alcoholism perhaps the worst. He struggles for years before settling in a small town to find his feet. Here he starts to understand the wider community of those with the shining, although he was obviously first exposed to this at the Overlook, but with understanding comes a new threat. The shining is stronger in some than others and provides different gifts and Dan meets a teenage girl who has a much stronger talent than his own - her name is Abra. As Dan has already discovered, Abra learns that the shining is as much a peril as it is a gift. To show the talent repels people through fear of the unknown so she learns to control and hide it but there are people who NEED the spirit to survive and will stop at nothing to get it. Abra with her intensified shining becomes a target. A stunning piece of work by King. From page one through to the end the link to the first book remains yet he has written an entirely new horror. Far removed from the demons of the Overlook Hotel but still tied to the year Dan spent there with his parents. As only King can, he introduces a whole new set of people, not spoken of in The Shining, yet it is apparent they were in existence at the time. Furthermore there is more insight into Dan's 'imaginary friend' and room 217. Just in closing, Abra's favourite boy band in 'Round Here. That may strike up a feeling of Deja Vue for anyone that has read the Bill Hodges trilogy. ...more OCTOBER COUNTRY 2013 - #2 Mr. King and I (or Uncle Stevie if I may) have a loooong history that stretches back decades now. His books have become the soundtrack to my life, the novels I reach for in times of stress and grief in search of comfort and solace. Some may find that weird, considering the man's reputation as America's Boogeyman, but it's never been weird to me. No one can spin a yarn quite like this man to keep you reading well past dark and into the wee hours of the morning. No one is OCTOBER COUNTRY 2013 - #2 Mr. King and I (or Uncle Stevie if I may) have a loooong history that stretches back decades now. His books have become the soundtrack to my life, the novels I reach for in times of stress and grief in search of comfort and solace. Some may find that weird, considering the man's reputation as America's Boogeyman, but it's never been weird to me. No one can spin a yarn quite like this man to keep you reading well past dark and into the wee hours of the morning. No one is as good as he is at locating our primal fears and anxieties and purging them in a storytelling catharsis that's as addicting as it is healing. No one can write characters as real as the person you fall asleep next to at night, or have hated to your very core since you were a child. Yes, Stephen King knows what scares us, because it scares him too, but he also knows how we love, how we fail, how we fall down and find the courage to pick ourselves up again. He knows what makes us human, and better than that, he knows how to write it all down on the page capturing the very essence of our humanity like a magician captures lightning in a bottle. Can he do it every time? No. But I don't love him any less for that fact. Does he try his very best to do it every time? You bet, with intent and integrity. King is no sell-out, and no one will ever be able to convince me otherwise. zip it...shhhh...no...talk to the hand I imagine King approached the story of Danny Torrence all grown up with a lot of respect and trepidation. The Shining is one of King's most memorable novels, with an iconic film adaptation that in some ways has even eclipsed the book itself. As a reader I approached this sequel with trepidations of my own. Even though you do your best to stranglehold your galloping expectations, you can't help but get excited and to imagine how it's all going to come together, what it's going to feel like. This is a good book. Once you start it, like so many of King's best works, you will want to (have to) finish it. But it isn't The Shining and anyone expecting a full frontal assault horror novel on par with that classic will be sorely disappointed. In a lot of ways Doctor Sleep is a completely different book altogether, because it's written by a completely different man who has lived a lot of life and learned a lot of things. It's probably not even fair to compare the two, but it's inevitable. A sequel is a sequel. As a sequel it does succeed brilliantly in one important aspect, and that is answering the question: \"hey, whatever happened to the kid in The Shining ?\" Dan Torrence carries some heavy burdens which have derailed his life in more ways than one. Blocking out his traumatic childhood has doomed him to repeat history -- at least that of his father and Jack Torrence's black temper and unquenchable thirst for booze. Dan is an alcoholic, selfish and unscrupulous, and facing his rock-bottom. Anyone who knows anything about King's personal life, knows he is a recovering alcoholic. So who better to write a story about a life lost to booze and the battle to get healthy \"one day at a time\". Dan's life, what it was, what it becomes, is a great part of this novel, and I loved reading about it. Then there's the other part -- a band of psychic vampires traveling the dusty back roads of America by RV calling themselves the True Knot. These are interesting, hideous creatures with a colorful history. On the King villain scale however, we've encountered way worse, and way more memorable. Ditto Abra. As a child heroine facing down the supernatural dark King has equipped her with some pretty mighty powers. She is in fact, King's most powerful, making little Danny Torrence, Carrie White, Charlie McGee, and Johnny Smith combined look like a dim bulb on a Christmas tree. Becky describes it best in her review this way: Things were just so easy for her, since she was so powerful in the shining, and on top of that, she had a support system - two parents, Danny, Billy, and John. And she was more than twice Danny's age when he had to fight for his life, alone. So I just didn't really feel all that concerned about her, as unfair as it may be. I feel like King went easy on her. Abra surpasses super-human into superhero range. And while I feared for those around her, I never ever feared for her. (view spoiler) [Overall, I think that the odds just seemed so greatly on the side of the heroes, so vastly uneven. Not only was the Knot low on steam, but did they really have to be plagued by measles too? And did Abra have to be so very strong, \"a lighthouse\" to Danny's \"flashlight\"? (hide spoiler) ] There is a lot to enjoy here, but for me there is an emotional depth missing that I've come to crave with King's books and the characters he creates. I wanted to live in this story, and think about it constantly, and I did neither. I enjoyed it for the adventure it was, and will have no problems recommending it, but it won't live on and linger in the mind the way so many of his other books have for me. The one part that really shook me up? (view spoiler) [The torture killing of the baseball kid. Man, that scene is BRUTAL. King pulls no punches there, and I felt it right to my bones. Also, Danny seeing Jack at the end, and blowing him a kiss. I choked up at that even though I knew I was being manipulated. Damn you King!! Well played. (hide spoiler) ] ...more Just finished the galley. A HUGE disappointment. (NO SPOILERS) Do you find Nan the hat, measles and shotguns scary? It\u2019s well known that King postponed publication of DOCTOR SLEEP from January 2013 to fall 2013 since he admitted it needed some serious editing. Imagine Shirley Jackson writing a sequel to THE HAUNTING OF HILL HOUSE without the house, or Richard Matheson\u2019s HELL HOUSE sequel sans the Belasco mansion? That\u2019s one of the many, many, many things that are wrong with Stephen King\u2019s sequel to Just finished the galley. A HUGE disappointment. (NO SPOILERS) Do you find Nan the hat, measles and shotguns scary? It\u2019s well known that King postponed publication of DOCTOR SLEEP from January 2013 to fall 2013 since he admitted it needed some serious editing. Imagine Shirley Jackson writing a sequel to THE HAUNTING OF HILL HOUSE without the house, or Richard Matheson\u2019s HELL HOUSE sequel sans the Belasco mansion? That\u2019s one of the many, many, many things that are wrong with Stephen King\u2019s sequel to THE SHINING---the Overlook hotel never makes an appearance since it was destroyed by fire (in the book, not the movie.) The whole premise of THE SHINING was a haunted hotel and a boy with a special gift. What we have in DOCTOR SLEEP (really dull title, BTW) is the further adventures of Danny Torrance. Problem is, if you read the novel, Danny was never a very interesting character\u2014his father was and the hotel was. But in this sequel, we are stuck with Danny. And Danny drinks\u2014a lot. And goes to a LOT of AA meetings; and we go with him. To. Every. Single. One. I\u2019m talking dozens of pages of AA meetings that add zero to the book. King struggled with alcoholism during the early years of his career and one reason he so disliked Kubrick\u2019s film was because that aspect of Jack Torrance was significantly excised from the film. So King wrote it back in when he did his 1997 TV miniseries. So alcoholism played\u2014and plays\u2014a big role in the characters of THE SHINING and DOCTOR SLEEP. But it doesn\u2019t result in very interesting characters. In fact, this is the first book of King\u2019s (I\u2019ve read more than 40 of them) where his skill with characters is absent. There are no characters in this book, just names on a page\u2014and pages you will be frantically skimming by the time you reach page 200 because you will be desperately look for a plot to grab you and suck you into the story. Like everyone else reading this review, I was SO EXCITED to read DOCTOR SLEEP. A sequel to one of my favorite King novels, and he said it would be a return to real horror. (\u201cBasically, the idea of the story was to try and scare the s--t out of people!\u201d he said) But here\u2019s the bad news: IT'S NOT SCARY. At all. The supernatural force Danny deals with is someone called \u201cNan the Hat.\u201d Seriously. I\u2019m not making it up. And Nan and her minions aren\u2019t even really supernatural---they can be destroyed by measles. And shotguns. Yes, seriously. By page 400 of this more than 600 page galley, I knew it was a real disaster. Of course, \u201ceveryone\u201d will buy it but I can\u2019t honestly imagine many will give it a good review. There is no Overlook Hotel. There are no scares. There are no classic King characters. In fact, the last 200 pages read like a young adult adventure novel. If it wasn\u2019t pitched as a sequel, it would still be a bad book, and it borrows heavily from IT and THE DEAD ZONE. This was a huge disappointment for me. If anyone likes/loves it, I look forward to reading your reviews and some examples of what was so scary or compelling about the story. ...more FEAR stands for fuck everything and run. Was Doctor Sleep better than The Shining? No. But it was still pretty damn close . In The Shining Danny became one of the most interesting characters I\u2019ve read about, so (at least in my opinion) if any character deserved a sequel, it would be him. But still, at the same time, I was afraid of not liking this book, and not liking the way King would continue Danny\u2019s story. And now, that I\u2019ve finished it, I can safely say that King couldn\u2019t have done a better job FEAR stands for fuck everything and run. Was Doctor Sleep better than The Shining? No. But it was still pretty damn close . In The Shining Danny became one of the most interesting characters I\u2019ve read about, so (at least in my opinion) if any character deserved a sequel, it would be him. But still, at the same time, I was afraid of not liking this book, and not liking the way King would continue Danny\u2019s story. And now, that I\u2019ve finished it, I can safely say that King couldn\u2019t have done a better job. This book and The Shining had different vibes. While The Shining was creepy and scary , this book was more of an emotional ride. But, like in The Shining , my favorite part of this book were the characters. While Danny remained being my favorite character, I couldn\u2019t help but love the new characters we got introduced to (even the bad ones). King has a way of making you care for the characters, even if they\u2019re evil. I can safely say that King got into my \u2018top three favorite authors\u2019 list, and I've got a feeling that he\u2019ll climb even higher in the future. I\u2019m gonna end this review on a positive note (like King himself did with this book): FEAR stands for face everything and recover. ...more I'm always filled with anticipation when Stephen King releases a new book. I saw him in person 2 years ago and he did a reading from Doctor Sleep and I've been impatiently waiting for it to be published ever since. Once it released, I totally immersed myself in it for 2 days, both reading the Kindle version and listening to the Audible version at the same time. I devoured it. I can see such a change in King's works over the years. In 11/22/63 I think we saw a softer, gentler side of him. He was q I'm always filled with anticipation when Stephen King releases a new book. I saw him in person 2 years ago and he did a reading from Doctor Sleep and I've been impatiently waiting for it to be published ever since. Once it released, I totally immersed myself in it for 2 days, both reading the Kindle version and listening to the Audible version at the same time. I devoured it. I can see such a change in King's works over the years. In 11/22/63 I think we saw a softer, gentler side of him. He was quoted as saying about Doctor Sleep that he wanted to get back to \"balls to the wall\" horror. I'm not sure that I would describe this book as being that kind of horror, but then again I didn't think The Shining was nothing but horror. King's writing these days is just a more gentle, feeling, emotional, gut-wrenching type. His earlier works were really in-your-face scary, but he's gotten away from that, even in this book. I'm not giving anything away by saying that Danny Torrance grows up to work in a hospice home, and his specialty is \"helping\" people who are dying, helping them with acceptance, helping them to a peaceful sleep...thus the name Doctor Sleep. Remember in The Shining, they called him Doc? Then coincidentally in this book he's a Doc too. When he sits with a dying patient at the time of death, he sees all the past life experiences that person had. Crying at the passing of a pet, dating their childhood sweetheart, teaching their child to ride a bicycle...things like that. Every time this happened in the book, it was so touching. As in so many of King's stories, in many ways this came down to a struggle of good vs. evil, the good guys vs. the bad guys, and good doesn't always win. This book is another perfect example of why I love to read. It's amazing to me how the mind of another human being can come up with words and characters that are able to evoke such strong feelings in me. What a talent! Thank you Stephen King for another wonderful story. Hopefully there will be many more in the future, we need some more balls to the wall horror stories. ...more Spoilers, whatever. The True Knot, as a whole, are some pretty unscary creatures. The main villianess, Rose, however, is seriously lacking in scare factor. She wears a top hat at an impossible angle! Oh, the horror! About halfway through the book, King seems to realize she lacks fright, and he gives her one tooth/tusk thing that comes and goes when she's eating \"steam\" or just when she's feeling a little salty. Otherwise, he describes her as extraordinarily beautiful, shapely, etc. He often repea Spoilers, whatever. The True Knot, as a whole, are some pretty unscary creatures. The main villianess, Rose, however, is seriously lacking in scare factor. She wears a top hat at an impossible angle! Oh, the horror! About halfway through the book, King seems to realize she lacks fright, and he gives her one tooth/tusk thing that comes and goes when she's eating \"steam\" or just when she's feeling a little salty. Otherwise, he describes her as extraordinarily beautiful, shapely, etc. He often repeats that this group of multi-aged RVers are dangerous because they are so ubiquitous as to be almost invisible. Well, no woman or man that attractive is ever going to fly so far under the radar that they're invisible. Especially in a top hat. Another thing about this tooth...it's not original. King has used this tusky one-tooth thing in some of his short stories when describing vampires. Another thing he's rehashed...Dan inhales Momo's cancer, and then expels it to kill Rose the Hat. It's directly out of The Green Mile and what happens to Percy and The Kid. Not only is Rose not very frightening in aspect, she is also, from the beginning, completely outclassed paranormally speaking. Abra is her superior in every way. As a child she completely blows Rose out of the water. In fact, they are never, ever, personally face-to-face in the entire book. It's hard to feel any building tension when Abra, our wunderkind, is careful to never come within thousands of physical miles of Rose. She is protected on every side, and this protection never fails. It makes for a rather blah denouement, even with a ninth-inning hail Mary appearance by Jack Torrance's \"monster.\" Who is a breeze at the right time. Or something, so Dan Torrance can get closure or something. Who knows. As a sequel to The Shining I have to give it a fail. All the tension of a vulnerable young boy basically alone in a haunted hotel, trapped by roads blocked by snow and a psychotic father is voided by a spoiled girl who is rarely actually in danger. Instead of the Overlook's real threats to Danny's life, Abra's nebulous threats are seeing Rose's reflection in a window and getting startled by a psychic flash of a pornographic movie one the True Knot is watching. Danny has Mrs. Massey (of Room 217 fame) who almost kills him and does physical damage. Abra has her \"ghosties\" which are, gosh!, mostly good folks that have just lingered here. Overall it doesn't seem very original or very compelling. And definitely not scary. In some ways it seems to me that King wants to leave behind horror....but a book that is supposed to be a sequel (his only one) to a book so steeped in the paranormal he felt he had to have some paranormal stuff, so he shoved some in without actually feeling it. The best journey in the book is Danny's journey from an alcoholic to an AA scion with a fifteen year chip. The only moments of true horror happen when Danny is hitting rock-bottom as a alcoholic, and the murder of the Baseball Boy (which happens \"off screen\") and thus loses any immediacy. All in all...it's...okay. As long as you don't expect a lot of suspense or originality. ...more King je vi\u0161e puta isticao da mu se s vremena na vreme de\u0161avalo da ra\u010duna koliko godina bi u datom trenutku imao Deni Torens (glavni junak popularnog romana \"Isijavanje\") ili bi se pitao \u0161ta bi Deni radio i kakav bi mu \u017eivot bio posle de\u0161avanja u Vidikovcu. Sigurno ste se i sami pitali nekoliko puta kada se neki film zavr\u0161i, \u0161ta se de\u0161ava sa glavnim junacima. Kao odgovor na ova i sli\u010dna pitanja nastala je knjiga \"Dr.Sleep\". Radnja se ukratko sastoji u slede\u0107em: Deni Torens, 30tak godina nakon de\u0161a King je vi\u0161e puta isticao da mu se s vremena na vreme de\u0161avalo da ra\u010duna koliko godina bi u datom trenutku imao Deni Torens (glavni junak popularnog romana \"Isijavanje\") ili bi se pitao \u0161ta bi Deni radio i kakav bi mu \u017eivot bio posle de\u0161avanja u Vidikovcu. Sigurno ste se i sami pitali nekoliko puta kada se neki film zavr\u0161i, \u0161ta se de\u0161ava sa glavnim junacima. Kao odgovor na ova i sli\u010dna pitanja nastala je knjiga \"Dr.Sleep\". Radnja se ukratko sastoji u slede\u0107em: Deni Torens, 30tak godina nakon de\u0161avanja u hotelu Vidikovac, prolazi kroz niz \u017eivotnih isku\u0161enja, da bi se kona\u010dno susreo sa devoj\u010dicom koja \u0107e mu izmeniti \u017eivot - Abrom Stoun koja je sve samo ne obi\u010dna devoj\u010dica. Deni ulazi u borbu za spas Abrine du\u0161e, spasavaju\u0107i usput i sopstvenu. Denijevi i Abrini protivnici na tom putu su grupa ljuda koja sebe naziva Pravi \u010dvor. Ja sam jedna od onih Kingovih fanova koja obo\u017eava \"Isijavanje\", po meni to nije obi\u010dan horor roman, ve\u0107 se slobodno mo\u017ee uvrstiti u kategoriju klasika, posebno kad se uzme u obzir \u010dinjenica da se bavi dru\u0161tvenim i zdravstvenim problemom kao \u0161to je alkoholizam. King je u tom trenutku bio u punom sjaju, karakterizacija likova je besprekorna, sve je veoma slikovito, a strah koji sam ose\u0107ala dok sam je \u010ditala je bio takore\u0107i opipljiv. Pored fantasti\u010dnog prikaza Denija i D\u017eeka, poseban utisak na mene je ostavio lik Vendi. Veoma sna\u017ean i upe\u010datljiv \u017eenski lik, koji sve vreme \u010deka i kona\u010dno dobija svoju priliku. Upravo je to i jedan od nedostataka Dr.Sleep-a. Odsustvo jakih, upe\u010datljivih likova, sa kojima delimo strah i strepnju. \u010cini mi se da je maj\u010dinsku figuru ovde poku\u0161ao da prika\u017ee kroz lik Abrine majke Lusi, ali ona je nedovoljno prisutna da bi mogla da usko\u010di u \"Vendine cipele\". Sve vreme sam \u010dekala da osetim ono \"ne\u0161to\" \u0161to sam ose\u0107ala dok sam \u010ditala \"To\" ili \"Isijavanje\" ali toga nije bilo. Mislim da bi ovaj roman sasvim dobro funkcionisao i bez nasle\u0111a prethodnog romana, kao samostalno delo. Posebno \u017ealim za tim \u0161to je King propustio priliku da nam malo detaljnije pribli\u017ei poreklo i istoriju Pravog \u010dvora, kao i da malo \"pusti ruku\" kada je re\u010d o karakterizaciji likova na \u0161ta smo navikli kada je on u pitanju, a posebno tu mislim na Abrinu baku Kon\u010ditu. Iako je izgleda izgubio na o\u0161trini tokom proteklih godina (\u0161to nije ni \u010dudo kada se uzme u obzir celokupno stvarala\u0161tvo) ne mo\u017ee se pore\u0107i \u010dinjenica da King jo\u0161 nije ispri\u010dao sve \u0161to ima. Jo\u0161 uvek u njemu \u010du\u010de sjajne ideje, spektakularni likovi i magi\u010dni i stra\u0161ni trenuci. \u010cak i ovakav King, kada nije u naponu svoje stvarala\u010dke snage, je daleko ispred ostalih svojih kolega. Posebna pohvala ide na ra\u010dun njegovog truda i borbe protiv alkoholizma, \u0161to je prisutno i u ovom romanu, na \u010demu mu se kao \u010doveku jako divim i zbog \u010dega ga dodatno po\u0161tujem. Ocena: 3.5/5 ...more Is Doctor Sleep as good as The Shining ? No. Did I go in expecting it to recreate that experience? No. That would be silly. When you order thin crust pepperoni pizzas from Pizza Hut you expect the same thin crust pepperoni pizza every time. Books ain\u2019t pizza. I would have been majorly disappointed if, in Doctor Sleep , Dan Torrance returned to a newly rebuilt Overlook Hotel with his own family just to find out that he\u2019s his father\u2019s son, then go nuts and try to smash everyone to pieces with a blun Is Doctor Sleep as good as The Shining ? No. Did I go in expecting it to recreate that experience? No. That would be silly. When you order thin crust pepperoni pizzas from Pizza Hut you expect the same thin crust pepperoni pizza every time. Books ain\u2019t pizza. I would have been majorly disappointed if, in Doctor Sleep , Dan Torrance returned to a newly rebuilt Overlook Hotel with his own family just to find out that he\u2019s his father\u2019s son, then go nuts and try to smash everyone to pieces with a blunt object. Doctor Sleep ain\u2019t The Shining . Instead, Doctor Sleep has more in common with Joe Hill\u2019s NOS4A2 . Both books have protagonists with special abilities who grow up to be raging alcoholics, who then learn to deal with their addictions, and get their special ability mojos back just in time to face down the bad guys. Both books feature kidnapped children as a central theme. The protagonists both have young relatives who must face the very same evil the protagonists themselves faced as a child. Both books feature cross-country pursuits. Both feature ancient \u2018vampires\u2019 of a very similar vein. The vehicles these \u2018vampires\u2019 drive are also key bits of characterization in both books. Doctor Sleep\u2019s bad guys are like evil carnie folks, NOS4A2\u2019s bad guy runs an evil carnival. The baddies in both books are over-the-top villains, almost cartoonish (which was a feature, not a defect, in my mind, for both novels). By drawing the parallels above, am I trying to say something, to point out a King family conspiracy? No. Not really. It\u2019s just interesting to note is all. But none of this addresses the question of whether or not I liked Doctor Sleep . I did, by the way. I liked it very much. It was an engrossing page-turner, tighter than a lot of King\u2019s later work. It has believable characters that you cared about, lots of action, and an ending that was satisfying (another somewhat rare find in a King novel). I also felt that it was a fine companion piece to The Shining , with enough ties and allusions to the original work to make it relevant, without being too referential or reverential (which would have been much, much worse). It wasn't a rehash, which I liked most of all. If I wanted the same pepperoni pizza, I\u2019d call Pizza Hut. ...more The Shining was my favorite Stephen King book when I was a teenager. I listened to the audio version of Doctor Sleep, and really enjoyed it, but somehow it didn\u2019t live up to the Shining. Granted, our memory of books from our youths is an extremely hard act to follow. I would have given Doctor Sleep four stars, but I felt that the climax was too easy. Stephen King is a master storyteller, so I don\u2019t cut him any slack when it comes to the conclusion! \" Fear gripped him . He was on thin ice. Again it was the old insidious insanity --that first drink. \" The Big Book of Alcoholics Anonymous *4.4 stars* Stephen King has frequently acknowledged that The Shining , one of his first big hit novels, came out of his drinking days (and drinking problems); recall Mr. Torrance was working on a novel and hitting the bottle hard. King has been clean since shortly after he finished that novel and he's helped many writers (which he of course won't identify) for wh \" Fear gripped him . He was on thin ice. Again it was the old insidious insanity --that first drink. \" The Big Book of Alcoholics Anonymous *4.4 stars* Stephen King has frequently acknowledged that The Shining , one of his first big hit novels, came out of his drinking days (and drinking problems); recall Mr. Torrance was working on a novel and hitting the bottle hard. King has been clean since shortly after he finished that novel and he's helped many writers (which he of course won't identify) for whom drinking was their fuel, the solution to writer's block and everything else in life; that is, until drinking became a huge problem and life became unmanageable. In Doctor Sleep , he ponders the question, what if hot wheels Danny Torrance, the son from The Shining, still had the \"Shining\" powers (the ability to see and communicate with the dead), but he's grown up to be as bad a drunk as his dad was. redruM Both drink and inner demons bedevil Danny until he settles down in small town New Hampshire, finds a 12-step group, a Big Book and an AA sponsor to help him with the steps forward and into a productive (if not somewhat boring) life helping the elderly at a hospice as they cycle out of this life into a higher one. The action starts as Danny is called by 12-year-old super-Shiner Abra Stone to ward off a wandering group of empty devils, some of ancient origin, hunting her so they can soak up her super-shine-steam for their survival and power. A thrilling, fun ride that takes Danny (and Abra) back to Colorado. It's not as terrifying as The Shining, but it's just as, if not more, enjoyable. ...more 4.5\u00a0\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 \u201cFEAR stands for fuck everything and run.\u201d \u201cThe good thing about being old, is you don\u2019t have to worry about dying young.\u201d King Slays again!! I wasn't expecting that ( I kinda was but still amazed ) It was so different and the voices of the characters were so strong, I could feel them through the pages. Immediately I started this book I was like... Bill: You are obviously gonna love this... It was a mix of his old suspenseful writing style and his new strong style and I ate it all u 4.5\u00a0\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 \u201cFEAR stands for fuck everything and run.\u201d \u201cThe good thing about being old, is you don\u2019t have to worry about dying young.\u201d King Slays again!! I wasn't expecting that ( I kinda was but still amazed ) It was so different and the voices of the characters were so strong, I could feel them through the pages. Immediately I started this book I was like... Bill: You are obviously gonna love this... It was a mix of his old suspenseful writing style and his new strong style and I ate it all up. He made savour every page and I didn't want it to end. What made this book worthy of its predecessor were the characters even the evil ones had distinct personalities. The book follows up after the final events of The Shining , Danny is all grown up but the monsters that haunt him are still the same. He is now an alcoholic who is faced with new evil that will stop at nothing but to get all of the children that have the shining. Together with Abra (A very special twelve-year-old girl), they will try to take down the ultimate evil which goes by the name The True Knot. In another great good vs evil battle King kills it. Amazing Fan Art :) \u201cDeath was no less a miracle than birth.\u201d I can understand why people would be sceptical to read the sequel of one of the greatest horror novels ever, especially after it came out after so many years but in my honest opinion, this one was almost as good as the first one. It expanded the power of the shining and brought so much depth with new characters. It was one original concept and you could tell that King really wanted to find out what happened to small Danny Torrence after that traumatic event and Danny's alcoholism plays a major point in the book and it made feel for him because unlike his father Danny takes steps to control it. He struggles with his past and also the present and he felt so life-like even his interactions with other characters especially Billy and Abra . The idea of death and the afterlife is also a subject discussed, we see how many people interpret\u00a0death and how the grieve and move on. \u201cThere came a time when you realised that moving on was pointless. That you took yourself with you wherever you went.\u201d Source of Art \u201cLife was a wheel, its only job was to turn, and it always came back to where it started.\u201d It also had this feeling of a mix of young adult and adult fiction that I really loved. He managed to paint such vivid fight scenes and awesome paranormal power in action in my head. The character of Abra reminded me of Eleven from Stranger Things ( Minus the government institutional thing ) Still get's goosebumps!!!! So if you were sceptical about this sequel... Don't!!!!! It's totally badass!!!! By this point, it should not surprise\u00a0you... I am sold on King and I plan to read more of his work :) P.S. You definitely should read The Shining because \u00a0it's amazing and this one will spoil so much :) Thank you for reading :) Tell me if you have read it so we can talk more about it :) ...more I'm going to keep this short and try not to gush over or cry during my review of this book. As an avid reader - one of those people who connect better to fictional characters than real people - Stephen King is like an old friend. Or a benevolent dealer. Or both. He feels like a member of the family - maybe the kind of older brother who chases you around with a spider until you cry, but then lets you have half his candy bar when you do. I stopped at about a third of the way in, gazed off into the I'm going to keep this short and try not to gush over or cry during my review of this book. As an avid reader - one of those people who connect better to fictional characters than real people - Stephen King is like an old friend. Or a benevolent dealer. Or both. He feels like a member of the family - maybe the kind of older brother who chases you around with a spider until you cry, but then lets you have half his candy bar when you do. I stopped at about a third of the way in, gazed off into the distance and sent a 'shine' to Mr. King. It was simply, ( thank you ) with well-wishes and affectionate feelings attached. I'd like to think he received it in the same way Danny Torrance would have. I have loved King's twisted mind for years and am grateful to have shared in the waves - sometimes tsunamis - of brilliance (The Shining and The Stand, to name just two) that have originated from it. We're both growing older (although he got his start sooner). With age comes an erosion to youth's cocky confidence. What we gain in wisdom as we experience more of life often makes us more humble. Experience often teaches us that what we thought we knew in our twenties isn't actually concrete. We're fallible. Life is uncertain. Our Magic 8 Ball doesn't answer as confidently as it once did. Reply hazy, try again. We feel this aging wisdom and uncertainty in King's grown up Dan Torrance. And in King's Author's Note at the end of the novel, you can hear him questioning himself and his decision to reprise that character. That broke my heart a little and made me love him even more. May you have long days and pleasant nights, too, Mr. King, sir. Brother. Friend. Your story was more than okay by me. Oh, were you expecting a review of the story? Nah. I'll leave that to others. There will be plenty - some good and glowing, some bad and full of venom. Mine I've reserved for nostalgic sniveling and hero-worshiping. Get your details elsewhere, but go knowing I highly recommend the novel and believe it is pure King brilliance from start to finish. ------------------- I registered this book at Bookcrossing.com! http://www.bookcrossing.com/journal/1... ...more Holy shit. I had no idea there was a sequel! This is hard for me. It's like reading something by a family member that I don't think is very good, and being asked to give an honest opinion. I'm an honest person, but I still struggle on how to phrase some certain honest answers. It's partly my fault because I re-read my beloved The Shining just last week, in anticipation of reading this, its sequel. Anyone who tells you that there's no reason to compare the two is out of their mind - tell me what other sequel, trilogy, whatever hasn't had the This is hard for me. It's like reading something by a family member that I don't think is very good, and being asked to give an honest opinion. I'm an honest person, but I still struggle on how to phrase some certain honest answers. It's partly my fault because I re-read my beloved The Shining just last week, in anticipation of reading this, its sequel. Anyone who tells you that there's no reason to compare the two is out of their mind - tell me what other sequel, trilogy, whatever hasn't had the latter books/films compared to the first? We do it all the time with Star Wars, Indiana Jones, The Godfather. We do it all the time with G.R.R. Martin's books. We do it from season to season of some of our favorite television shows - I did it with American Horror Story. \"Well, the first season was awesome, I couldn't get through the second season, but this third season seems to be starting out really well.\" There are comparisons to early characters (I'm happy to see the actress who played Violet in the first season of American Horror Story back in the third; since I didn't finish the second season, I wasn't sure if she made an appearance or not, but something tells me she did not.) Hell, we do it with our favorite bands. \"They had a great debut album, but their second album sounded horrible in comparison.\" Maybe it's unfair to make these connections and to search for relationships, but that's the nature of the beast. To me, this was a completely different story. It's not similar to The Shining in tone, atmosphere, storyline, or attitude. The only thing that is similar is the cross-over between a few characters, which, let's be honest, is something that King excels at anyhow. Many of his characters show up in different King novels, which is something I consider brilliant (even if he's not the first author to do this sort of Easter egg thing). So in a way this doesn't feel as much as a sequel to me as it does a completely separate book, and it shouldn't be referred to as a sequel. Any more than it should be considered a new Dark Tower book - there's reference to there being more worlds than this in Doctor Sleep, which will be familiar to anyone who has read The Dark Tower series. Or any more than it should be considered a sequel to King's own son's book, NOS4A2 by mentioning Charles Manx. There is certainly more focus on Dan Torrance, the little boy that we all know and love from The Shining - now 30 years later, all growed up, an alcoholic to boot, and struggling with his own inner demons much like his father. We see him at rock bottom, which is great and all, but we also saw his father at rock bottom as well, didn't we? I can't help but compare the two bottoms and again, they're not written anywhere near each other. What I felt King did here was come up with a completely different story and then he brought the Torrance/The Shining characters into it. The relationship and the combination felt forced in parts. Had the book stood alone and focused just on these psychic-vampires, I feel the story would have been stronger for me. It's not to say that Dan couldn't have made an appearance just like any of King's other characters that peek in throughout the book - but the focus on him, and then trying to work this other, newer aspect around him and the old mythology, felt like a stretch. It should have just stood alone. I know I'm in the minority here, and this review will make me terribly unpopular amongst other King readers. I think we all tend to have this sort of soft spot in our hearts for Stephen King (I know I do), but it doesn't mean that I hold all of his books up to the same standard. That's not fair to him. It's not fair to him to say this is as good as or even better than The Shining. That's like saying \"It's fine to be mediocre.\" It's not fine, not all the time, not when the hardcover is $30.00 and is on bestseller lists. In the end, this book is just okay. There are some gems that could have been expanded upon (I love the gypsy caravan of sorts and I like the idea of some of the characters, but not so much their execution), the storyline could have been tighter, or it could just have not been labeled specifically as a sequel to The Shining. The books are nowhere in the same league. Doctor Sleep is just sort of... precious. In comparison. Fine as a stand-alone. The Shining is a book I own and will never get rid of, and I will re-read it time and again. Doctor Sleep is one that I've borrowed from the library, read, will return, and will never feel the urge to re-read. ...more Wow, I couldn\u2019t reread this fast enough. King is at the top of his game in this unexpected (at least to me) sequel to The Shining, and his writing has never been so good, so reader-friendly and at times downright beautiful, almost poetic. Although not at all as scary as The Shining, the story is really good and will keep you on the edge of your seat for hours on end. A total winner, whether you\u2019re a diehard King fan like me or not. Now, do you need to have read The Shining to enjoy Doctor Sleep? Wow, I couldn\u2019t reread this fast enough. King is at the top of his game in this unexpected (at least to me) sequel to The Shining, and his writing has never been so good, so reader-friendly and at times downright beautiful, almost poetic. Although not at all as scary as The Shining, the story is really good and will keep you on the edge of your seat for hours on end. A total winner, whether you\u2019re a diehard King fan like me or not. Now, do you need to have read The Shining to enjoy Doctor Sleep? The answer is no... but it sure as hell makes you enjoy it even more! OLIVIER DELAYE Author of the SEBASTEN OF ATLANTIS series ...more", "Title": "Doctor Sleep"},
