{"Comments": "I have read most of <---A>Jodi Picoult</---A>'s books, and they are always entertaining and easy to read. However,<---M> this one was definitely not my favorite</---M>, and I often found it a bit formulaic and poorly executed. Maybe it's because I HAVE read so many of her books that I was looking for her signature \"twist\" at the ending (which an astute reader will guess at halfway through the book, if not earlier), and her characters seem to act in certain ways that are not fitting. ***Spoilers Follow*** ****************** I have read most of Jodi Picoult's books, and they are always entertaining and easy to read. However, this one was definitely not my favorite, and I often found it a bit formulaic and poorly executed. Maybe it's because I HAVE read so many of her books that I was looking for her signature \"twist\" at the ending (which an astute reader will guess at halfway through the book, if not earlier), and her characters seem to act in certain ways that are not fitting. ***Spoilers Follow*** ************************************************************ SPOILERS BELOW The book is centered around a high-school shooting, the culprit a teenage boy named Peter Houghton, who to my mind is not a very convincing villain. The reader is supposed to empathize with Peter from the time he's a baby - this supposed \"monster\" is shown as a tender, loving boy who gets picked on mercilessly at school. The point, really, is to show that even the most sensitive, nice child can be turned into a killer when he is bullied relentlessly. But I still never really saw Peter, as he is portrayed in the flashbacks, as the same kid who was purported to have killed ten of his classmates in a murderous rampage. Another loose end that never seems to get tied up is Peter's questioning of his sexuality. In one chapter, Peter is going to a gay bar and a GLAAD meeting, thinking he likes men. He is sitting next to Josie, another main character, and thinking that although she's pretty, he feels nothing for her. Fast forward fifty pages, and he's sending Josie a lovesick email about how much he wants to be a \"couple\" with her. The point of this, ostensibly, is to show that because the bullies tormented Peter with cries of \"homo\", that caused him to even question his own sexuality. But the email to Josie just seemed to be a convenient, and very out-of-character, move to tie plot points together. The most baffling of all, and the hardest to accept, is the infamous Picoult plot twist which is set up through the whole book, via a \"second gun\" with only a partial fingerprint, that seems to have been fired but nobody can find the bullet, and it's lying on the floor in the room with Josie, her dead boyfriend, and the shooter. Glimpses of a quasi-abusive relationship between Josie and her jock boyfriend surface, and then the bombshell - JOSIE shot the boyfriend! And THEN Peter shot him too! Despite the fact that Josie loved him.<---F> Or hated him</---F>. Despite the fact that Josie has shown no inclination toward homicide, and happens to be standing face-to-face with the boy who has just slaughtered all of her friends. Does this seem believable to anyone? Again, it's ostensibly because Josie doesn't see another way out of this relationship - the jock boyfriend has threatened to kill himself if she ever leaves him. But shooting him in the gut? That's a bit overwrought and hard to swallow. I write this review as a loyal fan of Jodi Picoult's work, and an ardent fan of books like \"The Pact\" and \"My Sister's Keeper\". I just wish Picoult would step out of the box a little bit and shake things up - just like moviegoers are starting to tire of M. Night Shyamalan's plot twists and wacked-out endings, so I'm beginning to be unsurprised and underwhelmed by Picoult's work. ...more This book is a hard book to put down because the entire time you're seeking answers. Why? What actually happened? What made it progress to this? Things like that. Things that people asked after Columbine, most recently after Virginia Tech, and after all the other school shootings. Once again Jodi Picoult tackles a sensitive and controversial issue, in an amazingly strong and dignified manner that doesn't have you choosing sides. She did it to the reader in My Sister's Keeper , where the minute you This book is a hard book to put down because the entire time you're seeking answers. Why? What actually happened? What made it progress to this? Things like that. Things that people asked after Columbine, most recently after Virginia Tech, and after all the other school shootings. Once again Jodi Picoult tackles a sensitive and controversial issue, in an amazingly strong and dignified manner that doesn't have you choosing sides. She did it to the reader in My Sister's Keeper , where the minute you began to go to one side, she presents something where you're suddenly seeing it all from a different angle. Every time you begin to thing Peter was in the right, an angry and upset parent stands up and says something to make you think again. A writer who can play devil's advocate to her own characters is a gifted writer indeed. <+++>Nineteen Minutes</+++> ends with stunning results. We think we know exactly what happened, but as the story progresses and we delve deeper into various characters psyche we begin to realize everything is not what it seems. I don't want to spoil anything, but if you're like me you'll begin to suspect things earlier on. In the end the book will leave you with a feeling of sad hope, a feeling I never knew existed until I finished this book. I'd say more, but as with other books I've reviewed, sometimes I just have to let the book speak for itself. It's such an amazingly sensitive story, to critique it too much might skew your own opinion going into it. The writing is beautiful, the characters complex and real. That's all I'm going to say, I think you need to find the rest out for yourself. ...more Believe it or not, I have never actually read one of Jodi Piccoult's books before. I'm not really sure why, but I haven't. This particular book has really stayed with me as I finished it, and I think Piccoult makes a few very important points/observations. 1. Sometimes the perpetrator of a heinous crime is the biggest victim of them all. Reading the things that Peter went through sometimes brought me to tears. I have never understood how people can treat others so badly, and the behavior of the b Believe it or not, I have never actually read one of Jodi Piccoult's books before. I'm not really sure why, but I haven't. This particular book has really stayed with me as I finished it, and I think Piccoult makes a few very important points/observations. 1. Sometimes the perpetrator of a heinous crime is the biggest victim of them all. Reading the things that Peter went through sometimes brought me to tears. I have never understood how people can treat others so badly, and the behavior of the bullies in this story was beyond the pale. It was easy to see how he could have been driven to do what he did, even though it was absolutely horrific. 2. High school is hard. I think most of us can look back on our high school days and remember struggling to fit in, remember the cruelty of some kids, and remember thinking that being \"popular\" meant you'd made it in life. Now, with my adult perspective, I can see how silly much of it was, but I remember that it was very real to me. I wasn't popular, but I did find my niche. I went through my share of teasing, and in the end I think it made me a stronger person, however I never endured anything like what Peter had to endure and I wonder how I would have gotten through something like that. 3. Nobody can judge a situation perfectly equitably. Not even a superior court judge. The storyline of Alex and her daughter showed that quite well, but so did the stories of most of the characters. You can't judge only on face value, or even on actions only. Piccoult did an excellent job of playing Devil's advocate for every single character...so much so, that it is difficult to make up your mind one way or the other. 4. Schools may have a zero tolerance policy for bullying, but in reality, they turn a blind eye to much of it. I have experienced this a bit with Bria's schools. I think it is impossible for the teachers and administration to really see what is going on all the time, but I do think that they need to be more aware of who is the bully and who is the victim. It was very sad and even gut wrenching to see how the teachers either didn't want to deal with Peter's situation, half heartedly dealt with it, encouraged it, or punished him right along with the bully. I don't really know what the answer is, but it seems to me there's got to be something better. 5. Peter's crime shouldn't be blamed on his parents, but they aren't guilt free, either. We can see that Peter's parents did what they thought was best, and they loved him. However, from the time he was born, they constantly compared him to his older brother, who was seemingly perfect. It got to a point that Peter couldn't confide in them about the hurt he was experiencing, because they always asked why he couldn't just be like Joey. And then to have Joey killed tragically a year before Peter's shooting spree didn't help. Both parents eventually admitted to themselves that they would have rather had Peter been killed in the car accident instead of Joey. Wow. I am pretty sure that kind of an attitude is evident to children, no matter how hard you try to hide it. Other mistakes these parents made were writing off Peter's anti social behaviors for normal teenage boy actions, and not really trying to have a relationship with him. Allowing him his privacy, instead of finding out what he was up to and what was going on in his life in a way that showed they truly were interested about him and truly cared. They seemed to be the poster children for loving, but lazy, parenting. (Which really isn't loving, actually). Likewise, Alex had issues being a mother, and it took a tragic event to help her to reevaluate her priorities and her actions as Josie's mother. I was happy she recognized her mistakes and worked to be better, but still, much of the damage had already been done. At least it wasn't as bad of a situation as Peter's parents were in, where the damage had all been done and there was no repairing any of it. 6. Ultimately, it doesn't matter what the mitigating circumstances are. The law is still the law. Alex dealt with this early in her career as a judge...not agreeing with some laws but still having to uphold them legally (gun control). And of course, Peter and Josie needed to pay for their actions. That is the law. I don't think it could be any different, and of course, I don't excuse Peter for what he did. As the trial showed, there were other kids who were bullied just as much who didn't decide to shoot up the school. There are so many other things I could say about this book. Piccoult is obviously very good at bringing up hot button societal issues and presenting them in a way that makes you really think. I am excited to read more of her novels. A few silly annoyances (because I always have them): 1. One of the first times we meet Judge Alex Cormier is when she is pregnant with Josie and she fills out a form with her name: Alexandra Cormier. Later in the book it talks about how her name isn't short for Alexandra like people assume. Well then, why would she fill out paperwork like that? 2. People are constantly \"pinching the bridge of their noses\" in exasperation. I swear I read that phrase more than 5 times. 3. I didn't feel the twist at the end was sufficiently explained. Maybe the abusive relationship she sort of showed between Matt and Josie explains it. She foreshadowed a bit that something big was up, but I didn't feel that what Josie ultimately did made a ton of sense in the situation. Perhaps a bit more backstory on the relationship, or at the very least, on Josie's feelings about the relationship, would have made more sense to me. As it was, I felt it was a bit out of place. Definitely twisty, though. So if that's what Piccoult was going for, then great. ...more When I read this book a few years ago, I had already gotten through four other Jodi Picoult - My Sister's Keeper , The Tenth Circle , Vanishing Acts , and The Plain Truth , in case anyone cares. I feel that we had a good relationship. Sure, after the first exciting fling things got predictable pretty fast (\"gee, I wonder if this one will have dramatic courtroom scenes?\"), but Jodi was still able to keep me hooked. Then I read <+++>Nineteen Minutes</+++> , and decided it was time to call it off. One big problem When I read this book a few years ago, I had already gotten through four other Jodi Picoult - My Sister's Keeper , The Tenth Circle , Vanishing Acts , and The Plain Truth , in case anyone cares. I feel that we had a good relationship. Sure, after the first exciting fling things got predictable pretty fast (\"gee, I wonder if this one will have dramatic courtroom scenes?\"), but Jodi was still able to keep me hooked. Then I read Nineteen Minutes , and decided it was time to call it off. One big problem with the book is that I was expected to think - or at least consider - that a kid being bullied for years is an excuse to shoot up a high school, killing not only the cliche popular jerks but also several innocent bystanders. No. I'm sorry, no. It didn't help that the bullied kid in question was utterly unlikable, as was his tragic friend with the abusive jock asshole boyfriend - every high school-related convention and cliche is used and run into the goddamned ground here, and it is unpleasant. But here's the real reason the book gets one star, and I don't consider this a spoiler because I think people deserve to be warned about this: the morbid fascination of school shootings stems from, I believe, the mystery of why any kid would go to such an extreme. Since most of the people who commit this crime end up killing themselves, we never really know how or if they justified their actions. With this in mind, pretend you're a writer working on a book about a school shooting, where the killer narrates some of the story. Wouldn't it be a good idea to have a chapter where the reader gets to be inside the killer's head during the actual shooting, so they could understand his thought process and logic? If you answered \"well, duh,\" then congratulations, you are not Jodi Picoult. Throughout the entire book, we never, ever get to see the shooting through the bullied kid's eyes. Why did he shoot the people who never harmed him, including a teacher who was kind to him and some random girl just walking in his line of fire? Did he feel any remorse during the shooting? What was he thinking? Why did he stop in the middle of his spree to sit down in the cafeteria and eat a bowl of cereal ? We never find out, and this infuriated me so much Picoult might as well have ended the book with, \"I'm Jodi Picoult and I get paid thousands of dollars to print out crap they sell in airport bookstores! I do what I want, so fuck you!\" Yeah, you know what? Fuck you , Jodi. People are only buying your damn book so they can get into the killer's head in the exact way I've described, and you're just screwing with them. Not cool. ...more This is a powerful read. After an act of violence is perpetuated at the local high school, those 19 minutes change a New Hampshire town forever. The writing is riveting and poignant. We are reading about the events leading up to the climax. The history of the individuals involved. Their mindset. It's a lot to take in. Especially because the good aren't all good and the bad aren't all bad. I think as readers, it puts us in a unique and introspective position as we are not shown only the parts tha This is a powerful read. After an act of violence is perpetuated at the local high school, those 19 minutes change a New Hampshire town forever. The writing is riveting and poignant. We are reading about the events leading up to the climax. The history of the individuals involved. Their mindset. It's a lot to take in. Especially because the good aren't all good and the bad aren't all bad. I think as readers, it puts us in a unique and introspective position as we are not shown only the parts that are convenient. The big picture isn't simple either. It's messy. It's emotional. It's heartbreaking. There are no winners. It makes you think about the signs you are possibly not seeing. The things you are saying or not saying for that matter. It makes you think about things done to you or things you may have done to others. Although I predicted some of what turned out to be the twist in the story, I found myself utterly drawn in by the story. The characters were dynamic and complex. Layered very well. The plot dealt with a sensitive situation gracefully not taking short cuts and offering a well rounded perspective. The writing was just stellar. An absolute win. Safety: There is abuse and sex that doesn't always appear to be consensual. There is a lot of physical violence. ...more I can't stop loving this book, if you guys only have the chance to read this. Sometimes I find her works destructing, annoying and a good sleeping pill for those people who suffer from insomnia. I might be too judgmental but swear, you can take my words after reading her earlier works. This time Picoult wanted to portray a community, a school, where innocent students were bullied by the jocks. The reality of a typical American school environment for students who suffer to stand out in the crowd I can't stop loving this book, if you guys only have the chance to read this. Sometimes I find her works destructing, annoying and a good sleeping pill for those people who suffer from insomnia. I might be too judgmental but swear, you can take my words after reading her earlier works. This time Picoult wanted to portray a community, a school, where innocent students were bullied by the jocks. The reality of a typical American school environment for students who suffer to stand out in the crowd and to those people who feed in to gain their desires. In nineteen minutes, you can mow the front lawn color your hair, watch a third of a hockey game. In nineteen minutes, you can back scones or get a tooth filled by a dentist; you can fold for family of five... In nineteen minutes, you can stop the world, or you can just jump off it. In nineteen minutes, you can get revenge. In a small town of New Hampshire, Sterling, the people were shattered by an act of violence. A violence that no one expected, a massacre that kills ten students and injured nine. The unforgettable event that widen the understanding of every witness that touches and experience such violent event. From the eye of a seventeen year old boy, Peter Houghton , the act of killing is just the beginning of everything and the act of killing himself to free from his past. <---C>Josie Cormier</---C> , lying in a blood bath, nobody knows if she was dead or alive but the simple glitch of her body she was discovered to be the only survivor who never injured totally. She can be the witness of the killing, but the down side is, can she ever remember what happened? Besides her, two shots found in the body of the most popular jock and Josie 's boyfriend, Matt Royston , no pulse, blood flows and dead on the spot. For the eyes of the two mother, Lacy and Alex , both were good mothers, they tried to be with their son and daughter and their friendship that they thought will last long. How can they even manage the situation when they needed each other again for so long? Sometimes, being a good mother takes a lot of sacrifice for the safety of others. I really liked Jodi's concept of applying bullying on one of her books, this one affected me so much. Not because I bullied others, it is because I've been bullied ones. School is a place where most of the students thought that can protect them or us, but this time, a school can only be as dangerous as what Peter thought. A place where bullies, jocks, queens and the cheerios lived and reign. Nowadays, computer games, social networking or the online life itself can be a tool to gain freedom from the outside world. Some people talk much online or just being friendly to others but personally they are just puppet of the real world. This place is just a place were outsiders come and a place where people thought they are safety. But online, can be a tool to bullying - cyber bullying. You don't know their are people who are talking at your back, trying to send private messages, hiding their faces or they wanted you to be like them. There is no age limit and everyone can do such little creepy crime. When you discovered it, you'll realize their is no such place as safe . For Peter and the other people who read the book, it will be a lesson to us. The medical (psychology) and law factor of this book, indeed a great success form her other books. It has a stronger structure than her past novels except Plain Truth which also have the same strong medical and law factor plus she also included great conflict between two cultures. How can she manage to write such book, pact with exciting events? I don't know, maybe she extended her research not only the part of the bullied but also the effect of the simple crime to a child plus her experience. How many people died everyday? How many kids suffering from bullying? How many lives do we need to destroy? or How many kids died of bullying? Wish this book will be a great inspiration to everyone. Everyone have their own role in the society. The bully, the bullied, and the bystander are three characters in a tragic play performed daily in our homes, schools, playgrounds and streets. - The Bully, the Bullied, and the Bystander Barbara Coloroso Rating - Nineteen Minutes by Jodi Picoult, 5 Sweets and the ugly bullies! (What to do with bullies? Keep them alive? I don't know. Flagged them? Blocked them? I don't know. I think they are just trying to bully you to sustain their popularity or they are just wanted attention from others. Attention seeker! Or they are just wanted you to be like them. Anyway, I don't know maybe we just leave them alone.) Challenges : Book #53 for 2011 Book #6 for Jodi Picoult Reading Challenge 2011 ...more I tend to rate books by how much they make me think, how much they make me feel, and how much they draw me into their world. With an almost obsessive interest in Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, Nineteen Minutes gets high marks from me. The book starts with the scene of a school shooting where you feel a disgust for the kid doing the shooting and sorrow for the victims but as you glean settings from flashbacks you come to sympathize with everyone in the book as a victim, each experiencing loss of I tend to rate books by how much they make me think, how much they make me feel, and how much they draw me into their world. With an almost obsessive interest in Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, Nineteen Minutes gets high marks from me. The book starts with the scene of a school shooting where you feel a disgust for the kid doing the shooting and sorrow for the victims but as you glean settings from flashbacks you come to sympathize with everyone in the book as a victim, each experiencing loss of different degrees. I can almost exactly correlate my feelings with the timeline of Columbine grief. In that sense the raw emotions were very real. But in the exaggerated small outcast boy, the popular snotty girls, the stupid cruel jocks, the overprotective parents, and all the other stereotypes I found myself resisting relating to the characters. Sometimes it felt very real, but occasionally it felt like statistics (especially with the random foreign last names). As your emotions are pulled to sympathize with one person then the next, you're left with the questions of who to blame, who to feel sorry for in the wake of a tragedy. For me I have a natural tendency to defend the underdog, to want to understand what put the perpetrator over the edge, while still reserving a small amount of accountability for them. It was obvious that Picoult seems to share the same allegiance to the bullied, but I would have liked to hear a little more about the stories of those who were shot and understand their motivations. I wanted to feel just as ashamed and saddened for them instead of focusing on aligning emotions with the ones the newscasters want to blame. I enjoyed the forum of different voices in the stories, but where were the voices of the victims who were also causes? Why does somebody bully? Tell their story too. I wish Picoult had put me just as much inside the head of the bulliers as the bulliee to optimize the circle of tragedy. I kept thinking about those people we all knew and know on the fringe of high school society whom you just hold your breath for in hopes that they make it through without disaster. Some people you just don't know will survive high school. Any lethal combination of triggers could have just as easily brewed a tragedy at any high school. When tragedy does occur, it's human tendency to want to find the triggers and signs that could have made it avoidable, but can anyone really say what is too much for anyone to handle? It makes you wish everyone could live high school with the empathy and understanding we receive later in life, or at least a glimpse of how we will someday overcome it. (view spoiler) [The person I related to the most was Angela Phlug who told Peter in her letter that she would have liked to friends with him. That would have been me: noticing the smaller insecure kids but never acting or approaching, only reacting. It is the mainstream kids who just follow along caught up in their own teenage angst that don't have issues with these bullied kids but aren't the outspoken type to make them understand. The character I sympathized with the most is Josie. Not only is she stuck in the middle of shouldering Peter's embarrassment and trying to create her own place in high school, but also, and maybe because of it, she's stuck in an abusive relationship. I felt for her as much as I did for Peter, different circumstances but just as alone. With all the foreshadowing discussion of post-traumatic stress syndrome, I did not expect such a heavy indictment. Between the abuse and Peter's gun pointing at her, I think she should have been shown more mercy, although her extended lie could not have worked in her favor. A heavily victimized character, although Peter's mom Lacy comes to a close second clueless in her grief and losing both of her boys. (I did not however sympathize with Alex's unemotional selfishness.) Surprising that Peter didn't make the top of my list for me too, but maybe that's because he finally acted balancing the scales of pity and discord. My biggest issue with the book would be that we never truly understand Josie's story. Why she was found unconscious with a gash in her forehead? She shot Matt and then what? And why didn't Peter shot himself? He was suicidal. Even though Josie snapped him out of his PTSD and Patrick was there to arrest him, I don't think Picoult justified his inaction enough. You're waiting to learn the entire book why he did not kill himself in the locker room and I wasn't completely satisfied with the answer. And I don't think I ever had a grasp on Josie's feelings for Peter. I understand that before and after she didn't want to see him because he inspired guilt in her, but what exact emotions was she feeling beyond that? I know she didn't like him romantically, but how deep was her level of friendship? Would thy have stayed friends without outside influences? And I didn't like the leap from Peter feeling nothing for her when she leans over him in the copy shop to sending a confession of his love. The confusion with his sexuality was understandable, but I wish the feelings for Josie had come on more gradually--then again normal emotional development does not always correlate with a social outcast. I wish Josie and Peter had had a moment to see each other in the end, or that at least Josie had written Peter a letter. I would have liked some resolution between those two. But that's what a tragedy does is rip apart everyone's lives and there is no easy wrap up to fix grief. (hide spoiler) ] ...more This is what I have come to understand about Jodi Picoult. She takes a controversial or emotionally-charged topic. School shootings. Childhood leukemia. Amish people. Then she centers that topic around terribly cliched characters and cranks the schmaltz meter to 11. The novels alternate between characters' points of view so quickly that Picoult rivals most TV news stations in offering endless shallow ten-second bits of information. Each little section, offered at a rate that would overwhelm even This is what I have come to understand about Jodi Picoult. She takes a controversial or emotionally-charged topic. School shootings. Childhood leukemia. Amish people. Then she centers that topic around terribly cliched characters and cranks the schmaltz meter to 11. The novels alternate between characters' points of view so quickly that Picoult rivals most TV news stations in offering endless shallow ten-second bits of information. Each little section, offered at a rate that would overwhelm even the worst case of ADHD, ends with a cutesy phrase that is a thin attempt at instilling a flimsy motif. Then, near the end of the book, there's a surprise twist that I can only guess is meant to titillate the unsuspecting reader in the midst of their mindless revelry of such crappy writing. Of course, that little plot twist is so ridiculous, at least when offered at the rate that Picoult spews them up for the delight of her idiotic claque of bovine \"readers,\" that any central issue that once may have been considered almost sacrosanct is reduced to senseless drivel that makes for easy ridicule, as evidenced above. School shootings or bullying are topics that should not be mismanaged to the point of hilarity, and they certainly shouldn't be used by hack writers cashing in on the public's worst fears to make a few (thousand) bucks. Either that's the case here, or Picoult is just a terrible writer. ...more A minha opini\u00e3o em v\u00eddeo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AlicM... Simplesmente adorei este livro. Toda a hist\u00f3ria \u00e0 volta do bullying e do massacre que aconteceu na escola, o desenvolvimento e depoimento das personagens, a maneira que est\u00e1 contado...perfeito. Mais um excelente livro da Jodi Picoult. Wow! This book really makes you think!! I suggest it to everyone! Nineteen Minutes is Jodi Picoult\u2019s most recent novel, and I predict it will become her best seller to date. It focuses on the events leading up to and following a high school shooting. Peter Houghton, picked on by school mates from the first day of kindergarten, enters Sterling High, and in nineteen minutes kills ten and wounds another nineteen students. In typical fashion, Picoult shapes her story by providing various perspectives. We are able to put the story together from Peter\u2019s perspective a Nineteen Minutes is Jodi Picoult\u2019s most recent novel, and I predict it will become her best seller to date. It focuses on the events leading up to and following a high school shooting. Peter Houghton, picked on by school mates from the first day of kindergarten, enters Sterling High, and in nineteen minutes kills ten and wounds another nineteen students. In typical fashion, Picoult shapes her story by providing various perspectives. We are able to put the story together from Peter\u2019s perspective as well as that of his parents, Judge Alex Cormier, Cormier\u2019s daughter Josie \u2013 a student in the school on that day, Patrick \u2013 a detective on the case, Jordan \u2013 Peter\u2019s attorney. We are able to see all the characters as \u201chuman\u201d \u2013 sympathetic but faulted. Picoult has always been a great story-teller, and in this novel, she is able to take a ripped from the headlines topic, and create a fictional story that makes the reader think. Justice is served in the novel, but there is a surprise ending and some twists and turns to keep the reader turning pages. With that said, my first reaction upon finishing the novel was, \u201cthat\u2019ll make a great movie\u201d. I then realized how sad that reaction was. Nineteen Minutes doesn\u2019t contain the artistic writing that Picoult\u2019s earlier novels did. A few years ago, when I discovered Jodi Picoult\u2019s books, I considered myself a big fan. I loved her novels and anxiously awaited the publishing of the next. I thought her writing was truly gifted! She had a way of telling a story by not telling a story. She wove together threads of personality and insight to create beautiful rich tapestries that were character studies, and by introducing me to a new character I learned something of value. In Nineteen Minutes, Picoult told a story \u2013 a good one. But the nuance and magic of her earlier writing is gone. While I enjoyed the novel, there was nothing there that will stay with me. I was like watching a good made for TV movie \u2013 well done, but so what? So, perhaps my review of this book isn\u2019t fair. I give it three stars, because it is a well-written story. It will be a huge commercial success, and it will be on the best-seller lists. While it may further establish Picoult as a best selling contemporary novelist, it also may mark the end of my Picoult fan-club membership. Ms. Picoult, we all have to pay the mortgage, and I understand. You give the people what they want, and you get financial rewards. I hope that in between these best selling works, you will still exercise that wonderful craft that you have been blessed with. I hope that your new found audience (who WILL buy anything with you name on it) will read some of your earlier novels and see the beauty and intricacies of your writing. I hope that someday soon you will be able to have commercial success by returning to your real gift \u2013 the \u201cart\u201d of writing. ...more Picoult writes books that are easy to read, yet usually compelling topics that are presented in a way that easily spark thought and discussion. If you read enough of them (I've read 4 and picked up on this trend in the second book), you can see that they are forumulaic in plot design and pace. This makes it easy to guess what the \"big twist\" at the end of her book will be. For instance, I suspected very early that Josie shot Matt, really as soon as it was mentioned that he had two bullet wounds Picoult writes books that are easy to read, yet usually compelling topics that are presented in a way that easily spark thought and discussion. If you read enough of them (I've read 4 and picked up on this trend in the second book), you can see that they are forumulaic in plot design and pace. This makes it easy to guess what the \"big twist\" at the end of her book will be. For instance, I suspected very early that Josie shot Matt, really as soon as it was mentioned that he had two bullet wounds where all the other victims had one. Confirmed when the Detective indicated his discoveries about \"Gun B\" and further cemented at the first mention of Matt's abuse of Josie (that added to her constant unease with her place in the popular group). I don't see myself giving any more of her books that I read more than 3 stars, because whereas I typically give the books credit for broaching difficult topics and presenting them is such a way to make the reader think, I don't think they're written in a particularly creative style. The first book of hers I read, \"Sister's Keeper\" I thought was GREAT - because I hadn't read anything like it before. The subsequent books, as mentioned above, were JUST like the previous is form...and admittedly function. The three stars is solely credit for tackling the difficult topics and because her writing isn't BAD, it's just not original anymore. How many times can you see the same magic trick, and still be surprised at the end? ...more This is an amazing story from one of my favorite authors. The subject matter is really hard to deal with, especially if you have teenagers or have ever been ridiculed at school. She handles it superbly and puts us right into the action. Feeling the anguish, the anger and the hurt. Showing us how true it is that there is always two -or more -sides to every story. We are forced to grapple with what is just and right. How far our culture will go to be accepted and what a huge impact a teenagers soc This is an amazing story from one of my favorite authors. The subject matter is really hard to deal with, especially if you have teenagers or have ever been ridiculed at school. She handles it superbly and puts us right into the action. Feeling the anguish, the anger and the hurt. Showing us how true it is that there is always two -or more -sides to every story. We are forced to grapple with what is just and right. How far our culture will go to be accepted and what a huge impact a teenagers social status has upon their lives. Your theories will be changed and your perception of what it is like for kids growing up today will be refocused. You will reevaluate what you teach your kids about fitting in and that everyone is different. For me, I wanted to go take my kids out of school and sit down with them and really, really discuss this! I wanted to know if this was how hard it was and how they planned to deal with it if it ever became an issue for them or their friends. And I wanted to just hug them and tell them how much I loved them, and pray that they are never subjected to the kind of pain that some kids face every day they walk through the school doors. With this story you are asked to identify how far justice should go and what is Right and wrong. Who the innocents are and if provocation gives us the right to retaliate in violence. It's smart, intelligent and emotional story telling at it's absolute best. ...more The only other Picoult book I read was My Sister's Keeper, and I enjoyed it quite a bit. Nineteen Minutes is a favorite among most people, so I had this one slated to read whenever I wanted a quick summer read. For the last 100 or so pages, I could hardly put it down. Her formula for keeping the reader engaged works very well. But I had some issues with this book that annoyed the hell out of me. Firstly, I have never come across so many stupid and needless analogies. Or are they similes? Whatever. The only other Picoult book I read was My Sister's Keeper, and I enjoyed it quite a bit. Nineteen Minutes is a favorite among most people, so I had this one slated to read whenever I wanted a quick summer read. For the last 100 or so pages, I could hardly put it down. Her formula for keeping the reader engaged works very well. But I had some issues with this book that annoyed the hell out of me. Firstly, I have never come across so many stupid and needless analogies. Or are they similes? Whatever... Here are a few: This is from a funeral scene: Loud, noisy sobs - the kind that splattered against the walls of the church like paint. I wonder how long it took her to think that one up. Or this one: If you were uncertain in the decisions you made as a father, could you patch over your insecurities with the confidence you had as a professional? Or would the fix always be flimsy, a paper wall that couldn't bear weight? Or this Picasso: Bruises bloomed on her skin where he held her fast, as if she were a canvas and he was determined to leave his mark. How about this gem? and the way the stars were pricking at her skin, like inoculations for a terminal disease I could go on and on, but I'll stop with one more: In the upper right-hand corner were the lunch ladies, slopping food onto plastic trays as students came through the line one by one, like drops through an intravenous tube. Yes! Exactly like that! Ugh. You know, for the most part, this was a pretty solid read, formula-wise. But every time I came upon one of these ridiculous analogies, it took me out of the story and I'd think, why the hell was that needed?? Okay, Let's do one more for the description of Alex's eyes: Hers were the pale gray that made you think of nightfall and silver bullets and the edge of winter. O-Kaay. This is a writer that is trying way too hard. Furthermore: (view spoiler) [ The whole Josie thing was nothing more than a twist for the sake of a twist and did not ring true to me one bit. Oh, she loves him, no, she hates him, no, she loves him, no, she shoots him, no, she loves him again. And, how could Peter's attorney possibly think that a difference circumstance with his TENTH murder after his rampage would have a significant impact on his sentence? Give me a break. Really. (hide spoiler) ] Alright, so that's it for Jodi Picoult. See ya... ...more This was the first Jodi Picoult novel I've picked up, despite having her recommended by several of my friends for various novels. I have to admit the plot summary was intriguing enough to pique my interest. I grew up in a world where school shootings hadn't happened yet. Columbine happened when I was a senior in high school, just a couple months short of graduation. I remember the shift in collective conciousness at the time, how that one terrible event affected us all. After all, it could've be This was the first Jodi Picoult novel I've picked up, despite having her recommended by several of my friends for various novels. I have to admit the plot summary was intriguing enough to pique my interest. I grew up in a world where school shootings hadn't happened yet. Columbine happened when I was a senior in high school, just a couple months short of graduation. I remember the shift in collective conciousness at the time, how that one terrible event affected us all. After all, it could've been any high school in America, right? Our graduation rehearsal was later cancelled based on copycat threats received. This story was a different insight into the situation. The way she follows the police detective, the judge, the accused, and one victim is in-depth and the backstory provided gives, if not a total method, at least some peek into the harsh experiences of high school students at varying social levels. I found the account of the accused boy's mother especially sad and touching. It's easy to read this and feel compassion for the mothers that have actually been faced with this situation. It's another thing to wonder if I would feel that way myself, if my child were involved in something so horrific. After Columbine, I don't remember giving the shooters' families much thought. I was saddened for the innocent victims and terrified for myself to think something like that was even possible. I liked this book because it made me stop and think about many things I haven't pondered in a long time. There is an element of fear and uncertainty to being a parent--at some point, you aren't responsible for your child's action and you have no idea what they will become. In many ways, you just hold your breath and hope for the best. Only in a few rare instances do things go south in the manner they have for these fictional parents. On the whole, having the \"action\" upfront was a relief. Very few books that I've read lately are that way. Also, I was expecting way more gore. It was graphic to the point necessary, but it didn't make me ill. The choppy third person omniscient narrative style worked well for me, too. It kept things moving, even during a story from the past that was meant to illustrate 'how they got here'. The characters were diverse and interesting, especially Josie. I wasn't quite as interested by Peter as I thought I might be (I knew going in there would be at least something in here about the shooter), but maybe only because so many other deep characters fleshed out the story. It wasn't the easiest to read, just because of the thought-provoking content. But it was worth it, and will definitely make you wonder about how such significant changes can be wrought in such a short period of time. ...more This was my first Piccoult novel. I really liked it. Reflecting on this has made me think I need to re visit some more of her writing. This I look forward to. Sometimes I need a reminder. I really feel this book well haunt me. It left a strong impression on my heart. I loved the writing style which gave me a window into all sides of the story from parents of the students, victims, lawyers, judge, shooter, shooter's parents and so on. Was a mystery that made me continue to figure out what all went down. I would recommend this to anyone, it opened my eyes. If my kids were older teens I'd like them to read this as well. Bullying is a huge problem and this was an extreme case. Kids n I really feel this book well haunt me. It left a strong impression on my heart. I loved the writing style which gave me a window into all sides of the story from parents of the students, victims, lawyers, judge, shooter, shooter's parents and so on. Was a mystery that made me continue to figure out what all went down. I would recommend this to anyone, it opened my eyes. If my kids were older teens I'd like them to read this as well. Bullying is a huge problem and this was an extreme case. Kids never should have to suffer as Peter endured bullying all his school years. I know schools are more aware of this issue today but I'll be looking into the bullying policy in my children's school much closer. ...more My introduction to Jodi Picoult was through the book My Sister's Keeper, which was one of the best books that I read last year. Not so much for her writing, but for the subject matter and the way she crafted the book to have every side of a controversial topic be addressed from a first person perspective by many characters. I quickly picked up several more of her novels after I wept like a baby reading my Sister's Keeper. Every time I was disappointed. But I keep trying. I picked up the audio of My introduction to Jodi Picoult was through the book My Sister's Keeper, which was one of the best books that I read last year. Not so much for her writing, but for the subject matter and the way she crafted the book to have every side of a controversial topic be addressed from a first person perspective by many characters. I quickly picked up several more of her novels after I wept like a baby reading my Sister's Keeper. Every time I was disappointed. But I keep trying. I picked up the audio of her latest at the library for a recent long car trip. I was captivated for the first half of the book, the story is about a school shooting. The book is written from several different perspectives: the shooter (who was a bullied kid at the school), his mom, the police detective who was one of the first on the scene, his childhood best friend, etc. Riveting and tragic. Then a tangled romance and ridiculous twist at the end happens and I am again left disapointed. This might be my last shot at a Jodi Picoult novel. ...more Is there a shelf for a book I have to stop reading because I can't stand something about it? In this case, that the writer is a machine that swallows magazines whole and spews out a topic of the month. Well, I've gone all over GR saying negative things about Jodi Picoult which leaves me blushing when I write I really, really liked Nineteen Minutes . I held out as long as I could while reading it-I admit, I am compelled to read books about school shootings, such as Columbine by Dave Cullen and We Need to Talk About Kevin by Lionel Shriver . And so, despite my repeatedly dissing Jodi Picoult , of course I had to read 19 Minutes. And I have a number of complaints: the \"ripped from the headlines\" hoo Well, I've gone all over GR saying negative things about Jodi Picoult which leaves me blushing when I write I really, really liked Nineteen Minutes . I held out as long as I could while reading it-I admit, I am compelled to read books about school shootings, such as Columbine by Dave Cullen and We Need to Talk About Kevin by Lionel Shriver . And so, despite my repeatedly dissing Jodi Picoult , of course I had to read 19 Minutes. And I have a number of complaints: the \"ripped from the headlines\" hook Picoult is so dependent on as well as her usual reliance of stereotypical characters which she only bothers to individualize slightly. But, whatever truth or value my complaints hold, the fact remains: I could not stop reading. And if her characters are not memorable in the way I find Shriver's, neither are they ever unbelievable. And although the framework of her story comes out of the nightly news, she works in some extremely memorable plot twists. And I who pride myself on seeing a plot twist a mile away never saw them in this case, probably because I was so engrossed in each moment of the story I wasn't really thinking ahead. And it was good. I felt this book was very, very good. Maybe I'm predisposed to like it because of my interest in school shootings (maybe, in defense of so low an interest because I'm a teacher and because my daughter was about to enter high school at the time of the Columbine shootings but who knows?). On the other hand, I was probably just as predisposed to dislike it because of my rants about Picoult. It's not so easy to admit changing your mind in front of (what feels like) the world. But I have to be honest and admit I loved this book. And just like I did in We need to Talk About Kevin, as soon as I finished the last page, I felt compelled to read the book again. So I did. ...more Sterling is an ordinary New Hampshire town where nothing ever happens--until the day its complacency is shattered by an act of violence. Josie Cormier, the daughter of the judge sitting on the case, should be the state's best witness, but she can't remember what happened before her very own eyes--or can she? As the trial progresses, fault lines between the high school and the adult community begin to show--destroying the closest of friendships and families. Jodi Picoult has a talent for making y Sterling is an ordinary New Hampshire town where nothing ever happens--until the day its complacency is shattered by an act of violence. Josie Cormier, the daughter of the judge sitting on the case, should be the state's best witness, but she can't remember what happened before her very own eyes--or can she? As the trial progresses, fault lines between the high school and the adult community begin to show--destroying the closest of friendships and families. Jodi Picoult has a talent for making you feel bad and rooting for the \"villain\" characters in her books. Maybe because she makes them human with average flaws and maybe because you understand their feelings, hurt, and actions. My heart broke for Peter, to be bullied everyday like he was, I understood his actions. Now, I don't support what he did, but I understood his pain and frustration. I wish schools would make children read this book, so they understand their actions and how they treat others. ...more As the victim of bullying while growing up, I found this book especially intriguing. In my lowest moments, what lengths would I have gone to in order to make it stop? I was anxiously looking forward to seeing how the author would resolve this question. However, just as in her other book I read, My Sister's Keeper , she copped out in the end and chose not to resolve the issue at all. Everyone praises the author for being \"brave\" enough to tackle these issues and yet, at the last moment, she chicke As the victim of bullying while growing up, I found this book especially intriguing. In my lowest moments, what lengths would I have gone to in order to make it stop? I was anxiously looking forward to seeing how the author would resolve this question. However, just as in her other book I read, My Sister's Keeper , she copped out in the end and chose not to resolve the issue at all. Everyone praises the author for being \"brave\" enough to tackle these issues and yet, at the last moment, she chickens out and shies away from hard topic. Fumble-ina!!! Fumblerooski! This is absolutely the last book I will be reading by this author. ...more 4,5* Um livro que me surpreendeu bastante! This novel is an absolutely compelling and brilliant read. The tragic premise of a school shooting by a lonely nerdy boy, Peter, who has been bullied constantly since he started school for being \"different\" and until one day after years of torment and abuse, he finally snaps and takes a backpack full of guns to school and he kills ten people. Jodi Picoult skilfully explores the events leading up to and following the shooting from all angles, and she does it so subtly that before you know it, you This novel is an absolutely compelling and brilliant read. The tragic premise of a school shooting by a lonely nerdy boy, Peter, who has been bullied constantly since he started school for being \"different\" and until one day after years of torment and abuse, he finally snaps and takes a backpack full of guns to school and he kills ten people. Jodi Picoult skilfully explores the events leading up to and following the shooting from all angles, and she does it so subtly that before you know it, you are completely absorbed in the characters lives. Although the actions of Peter cannot be condoned, I found myself sympathizing with the character and the bullying that he suffered. Nineteen Minutes is very impressive at what it tries to do, namely tell an intriguing, emotional, painful story and invites the reader to contemplate how they themselves would judge this situation. Five stars. ...more I've read quite a lot of Picoult now. I started on a high note - My Sister's Keeper, which apart from the cop-out ending, was a really fantastic read. I mostly enjoyed her books with the exception of Salem Falls which failed to ring any bells for me at all, but this book, Nineteen Minutes was... tedious. It started off ok, but one major character turned out to be a red herring and just another woman in need of a f*** and her opposite number, who looked like she was going to be an uber-earth moth I've read quite a lot of Picoult now. I started on a high note - My Sister's Keeper, which apart from the cop-out ending, was a really fantastic read. I mostly enjoyed her books with the exception of Salem Falls which failed to ring any bells for me at all, but this book, Nineteen Minutes was... tedious. It started off ok, but one major character turned out to be a red herring and just another woman in need of a f*** and her opposite number, who looked like she was going to be an uber-earth mother, was a mess. (Admittedly that was probably as true-to-life as one could get). The middle part of the book was just pure tedium and the twist of an ending was so unlikely that all I felt on completing it was relief. Sad really. Maybe its like film stars who know when to stop, maybe writers should know when they've hit their peak and retire too. ...more AMAZING...she did it again! I love how there is a twist at the end!!! I have to say that I read this with pretty low hopes, having just finished My Sister's Keeper, and being pretty angry (well, maybe angry is too strong a word) with the ending. I have to say that I enjoyed this one much more, although I think most of that comes from me being a parent and appreciating some sort of the \"eye-opening\" that parents need sometimes to fully appreciate and shepherd the children in their care. This book definitely affords that, as most it deals with parents caught within I have to say that I read this with pretty low hopes, having just finished My Sister's Keeper, and being pretty angry (well, maybe angry is too strong a word) with the ending. I have to say that I enjoyed this one much more, although I think most of that comes from me being a parent and appreciating some sort of the \"eye-opening\" that parents need sometimes to fully appreciate and shepherd the children in their care. This book definitely affords that, as most it deals with parents caught within a very tragic situation. Although one could definitely argue that parts of the book were oversimplified and trite (seriously, is every jock that bad? And is every computer geek that maligned?), the parental relationships were very nicely explored, and those characters were fleshed out very well. This is what kept me reading the book, and what kept me enjoying it until the very last page. It certainly wasn't the suspense, as the \"twist ending\" was very foreseeable (although, I'm sure this is what the author intended, as I am not usually one of those people who figures everything out within the first 50 pages. In reading, as in talking and running, I am quite slow). In the end, it was very readable, I read it very quickly, and was left with memorable characters and a somewhat satisfied feeling. And I got a nice moment with my daughter. I read the book today and then took her out for my lunch. My daughter is 8, but an old 8. She has a very mature understanding of many things that I frequently wonder about the origins of. It certainly doesn't come from me, who of course gets her life and parenting lessons from the cheap new paperback shelf at Barnes and Noble. Anyway, we were waiting on our salads at the restaurant, and my daughter is telling me something about the Jonas Brothers. And I, having just spent the last 4 hours of my life reading this book, want to talk to her about deep issues. \"Gabby,\" I ask (and I should note, she immediately picks up that I want to talk about \"deep things\" and gets the look on her face I see when I am getting ready to do something really embarassing like sing or dance or talk about the oldest Jonas Brother, who all her friends find to be disgusting), \"no one bullies you do they?\" Gabby takes a long sip of water, and says, \"Why would they?\" I tell her that kids are cruel, sometimes it happens, etc, etc. She stops me midsentence and reminds me, \"Um, I'm on the student council mom, and we have strict rules about that kind of thing. It doesn't happen on my yard.\" I imagine her standing down some bully, possibly wearing a sheriff's badge and writing a citation, and almost laugh, but then I see the look on her face, and I stop. I want to freeze her, I want to keep her this age forever. I want her to stop me and tell me I have nothing to worry about, that the characters in the book are nothing like her and her friends. I want her to remember this moment; I want her to help me to remember it. But, it of course ends, and we are brought our salads, and my daughter spends the next 10 minutes trying to discern every ingredient in the vinaigrette. Nothing in my life is tied up all nice like in a Jodi Picoult novel, a moving little story topped with the perfect words, the perfect ending note before heading into the next point of view. I am quite happy with that, I suppose. ...more Believe it or not, Nineteen Minutes is the first and only Jodi Picoult book that I have read thus far. I can't imagine why I didn't discover her long ago. I loved this one and will definitely be checking out a few of her others. I found this book to be very thought-provoking. When we see school shootings on the news (and there've sure been plenty of them), we only get a one-dimensional glance of the event. Rarely do we learn much about the shooter's personal life prior and leading up to the event Believe it or not, Nineteen Minutes is the first and only Jodi Picoult book that I have read thus far. I can't imagine why I didn't discover her long ago. I loved this one and will definitely be checking out a few of her others. I found this book to be very thought-provoking. When we see school shootings on the news (and there've sure been plenty of them), we only get a one-dimensional glance of the event. Rarely do we learn much about the shooter's personal life prior and leading up to the event, nor do we truly realize what the surviving victims, the families, and their community experience in the aftermath of the tragedy. Ms. Picoult does an amazing job at taking us inside the harsh reality, somewhere that most of us have only observed from the safety of our living rooms. This book touched me from so many different angles. I really empathized with Josie's feelings of emptiness on the inside, of her concern that underneath the mask she showed the world, there was nothing there; that she was little more than \"Matt's girlfriend\" or \"one of the popular kids\", a status that was so fragile it could be snatched away at any time. I also felt great sympathy for Peter, and I thought the author did a wonderful job of exposing the fear and humiliation of being the target of bullying day after day after day. High school is ROUGH. Kids are MEAN. And yet it's an evironment in which kids are forced to go back to; there is no escape. I think the author was right-on with the \"Bullied Victim Syndrome\", and while I would never condone the horror of what Peter did, I can certainly understand where it came from. The book made me think twice about violent video games, as well. It's easy to write off any concerns expressed in the media, to just think, \"ah, it's just a game, lighten up\". But as the author described, kids are retreating away from reality and into these alternate universes where they feel appreciated and in control. In the mind of a disturbed teenager, \"real life\" and this \"other world\" might start to merge into a scary new reality, as it did for Peter. Although I am not a parent, I think it is crucial for our society to be more alert to the potential risks of this. ...more I\u2019d heard a lot about her and decided to pick this book up because I wanted to know what the hype was about. The book\u2019s good, entertaining, well written (for the most part) but I can also see what it is about her that makes her so appealing to the mass market. She definitely has those moments in books where you can tell she set out, in this scene, to tug at your heart strings, manipulative. Maybe not quite as hard core as Nicholas Sparks, but she\u2019s definitely playing the audience. I suppose, in I\u2019d heard a lot about her and decided to pick this book up because I wanted to know what the hype was about. The book\u2019s good, entertaining, well written (for the most part) but I can also see what it is about her that makes her so appealing to the mass market. She definitely has those moments in books where you can tell she set out, in this scene, to tug at your heart strings, manipulative. Maybe not quite as hard core as Nicholas Sparks, but she\u2019s definitely playing the audience. I suppose, in the grand scheme of things there\u2019s really nothing wrong with that, writing a book with the intention of wanting millions of people to read it and love it and react emotionally to it. It just doesn\u2019t really work for me. I\u2019m not really a fan of drama for the sake of drama. ALSO. Just because it doesn\u2019t say this anywhere on the outside of the book, Nineteen Minutes is a book about a school shooting. I really feel like those kinds of things should come with warning labels. ...more In nineteen minutes, you can mow the front lawn, color your hair, watch a third of a kockey game. In nineteen minutes, you can bake scones or get a tooth filled by a dentist, you can fold laundry for a family of five. In nineteen minutes, you can order a pizza and get it delivered. You can read a story to a child or have your oil changed. You can walk a mile. You can sew a hem. In nineteen minutes, you can stop the world, or you can just jump off it. In nineteen minutes, you can get revenge. -Ninete In nineteen minutes, you can mow the front lawn, color your hair, watch a third of a kockey game. In nineteen minutes, you can bake scones or get a tooth filled by a dentist, you can fold laundry for a family of five. In nineteen minutes, you can order a pizza and get it delivered. You can read a story to a child or have your oil changed. You can walk a mile. You can sew a hem. In nineteen minutes, you can stop the world, or you can just jump off it. In nineteen minutes, you can get revenge. -Nineteen minutes \u2013 page 1- 19 menit waktu yang dibutuhkan Peter Houghton menembak teman-temannya di Sterling High School. 10 meninggal, 9 murid dan 1 guru. 19 lainnya luka-luka. Kenapa? Seorang psikopatkah? Apa yang menyebabkan remaja laki-laki berusia 17 tahun berani melakukan hal itu? Jodi Picoult mengulas latar belakang seorang Peter, anak korban bullying temannya semenjak hari pertamanya masuk TK. 19 minutes ditulis dengan alur maju mundur, bagaikan mengupas bawang, selapis demi selapis kita menyelami Peter Houghton dan beberapa tokoh lain di antaranya Josie Cormier, teman Peter sejak kecil yang sekarang sudah menjadi gadis populer di ssekolah; Alex Cormier, seorang juri pengadilan dan ibu dari Josie; serta Lacy Houghton teman Alex sekaligus ibu dari Peter; Patrick Ducharme seorang detektif lokal dan Jordan McAfee, pengacara muda ambisius yang membela Peter di pengadilan. Cerita dimulai per tanggal 6 Maret 2007 saat penembakan terjadi. Salah satu korban adalah Matt, pacar Josie yang juga adalah satu-satunya korban yang tertembak 2 kali, badan dan kepala. Nobody wants to admit to this, but bad things will keep on happening. Maybe that\u2019s because it\u2019s all a chain and a long time ago someone did the first bad thing, and that led someone else to do another bad thing, and soon. You know, like that game where you whisper a sentence into someone\u2019s ear, and that person whispers it to someone else,and it all comes out wrong in the end. But then again, maybe bad things happen because it\u2019s the only way we can keep remembering what good is supposed to look like. \u2013 61- Hinaan terhadap Peter terus berlanjut, suatu ketika saat Peter mulai tidak bisa membedakan angka 3 dan 8 dan akhirnya ia harus memakai kacamata. Kacamata ringan yang membuat matanya terlihat besar seperti burung hantu namun ia juga dibuat terpana. Tulisan yang dulunya kabur kini terlihat jelas, mirip dengan pelengkap superhero! Sabuk Batman, Gua Superman dan kalau Peter adalah kacamata, ia begitu bersemangat ingin segera masuk sekolah. Dan yang didapat keesokan harinya yang saya ambil dari halaman 110, As the world came into focus, Peter realized how people looked when they glanced at him. As if he were the punch line to a joke. And Peter, with his 20/20 vision, cast his eyes downward, so that he wouldn\u2019t see. Bagaimana hati saya tidak hancur saat membaca paragraf itu. Huks. When you don\u2019t fit in, you become superhuman. You can feel everyone else\u2019s eyes on you, stuck like Velcro. You can hear a whisper about youfrom a mile away. You can dissapear, even when it looks like you\u2019re still standing right there. You can scream, and nobody hears a sound. You become the mutant who fell into the vat of acid, the joker who can\u2019t remove his mask, the bionic man who\u2019s missing his limbs and none of his heart. You are the thing that used to be normal, but that was so long ago, you can\u2019t even remember what it was like. Josie adalah satu-satunya teman Peter, bahkan ia pernah berkelahi dengan teman lelakinya gara-gara anak itu menghina Peter. Sayangnya begitu masuk SMA, Josie berubah. Josie mulai bergabung dengan kalangan abg ala kumpulan remaja putri di serial Gossip Girls dan berpacaran dengan Matt Royston, seorang pemain hockey populer yang kebetulan juga salah satu dari teman yang sering membully Peter. Matt bahkan sering menyebut Peter sebagai homo atau queer. Tidak seperti membaca buku drama lainnya, beberapa hari selama saya membaca nineteen minutes perasaan saya nyesek. Sedih, kalut dan yang jelas buku ini menghantui saya sampai sekarang. Saya tidak bisa membayangkan kalau saya ada di posisi Peter, bahkan sampai di suatu kejadian (tidak akan saya sebutkan karena bisa jadi itu sebuah spoiler yang akan mengganggu kenikmatan membaca) yang mempermalukan Peter, saya menjadi maklum kenapa ia sampai mengambil keputusan membawa pistol ke sekolah untuk membunuh teman-temannya. Nineteen Minutes tidak hanya terfokus pada penembakan di sekolah dan juga bullying, tapi seberapa dalam kita mengenal seseorang? If you spent you life concentrating on what everyone else thought of you, would you forget who you really were? What if the face you showed the world turned out to be a mask\u2026with nothing beneath it? Buku yang kaya dengan nilai psikologis, cerita yang kompleks. Bagi pembaca yang belum pernah menikmati karangan Jodi Picoult, sungguh, buku ini amat sayang dilewatkan. Cover versi Atria cukup mewakilkan isi buku, menggambarkan sepasang tangan yang bergenggaman. Nineteen minutes adalah buku Jodi Picoult pertama saya dan mulai sekarang bakal mengoleksi buku-buku lainnya :p Beberapa penghargaan Nineteen Minutes : Pemenang 2010 Iowa HS book award, 2009 New Hampshire Flume Award dan finlis dari 2010 Abraham Lincoln Illinois HS Book Award. \u201c(Nineteen Minutes is) absorbing and expertly made. On one level, it\u2019s a thriller, complete with dismaying carnage, urgent discoveries and 11th-hour revelations, but it also asks serious moral questions about the relationship between the weak and the strong, questions that provide what school people call \u2018teachable moments.\u2019 If compassion can be taught, Picoult may be just the one to teach it. \u201d \u2014Washington Post- ...more", "Title": "Nineteen Minutes"},
