{"Comments": "I need to cut the crap with my preconceptions. Although I almost unfailingly launch into a new novel with great enthusiasm like a kid on Christmas morning,<---M> anxious to discover what hidden treasure awaits</---M>, for some reason I held out little hope for Mrs. Foer\u2019s book about a book about love. Maybe it\u2019s because books about books about love aren\u2019t usually my thing? Maybe it\u2019s because I read her husband\u2019s bestseller last year and was less than impressed? Maybe it\u2019s because I had heard somewhere that t I need to cut the crap with my preconceptions. Although I almost unfailingly launch into a new novel with great enthusiasm like a kid on Christmas morning, anxious to discover what hidden treasure awaits, for some reason I held out little hope for Mrs. Foer\u2019s book about a book about love. Maybe it\u2019s because books about books about love aren\u2019t usually my thing? Maybe it\u2019s because I read her husband\u2019s bestseller last year and was less than impressed? Maybe it\u2019s because I had heard somewhere that they wrote their books together (<---B>oh, how a dor able!</---B>), bouncing ideas off one another and giving each other high fives, so naturally I assumed that if Mr. Foer\u2019s book was gimmicky (which it is), then <+++>The History of Love</+++> would surely be a major eye-roller as well, right? Wrong. Whatever the reason, I was clearly out of line, and for that I owe Nicole a huge apology. In this book she weaves three intersecting storylines all under a cloud of intriguing ambiguity, so even though it is understood that the stories are related, it isn\u2019t exactly clear how until about two-thirds of the way through. And as the stories of Leopold Gursky, <---C>Alma Singer</---C>, and Zvi Litvinoff are told to us, they leave an imprint on us even before we learn for sure who they are. <+++>The History of Love</+++> is a gorgeous novel with gorgeous characters who do what characters do best: they love and they lose, they struggle and they fail, and if lucky they learn how to pick up the pieces and survive. For them, survival is not a destination but a journey. There\u2019s no magic cure and there\u2019s no end-all. But taken one day at a time, it is possible to live a life worth living. Krauss reminds us that all we really want is to remain visible\u2014to be known, to be loved, and to be remembered by those who knew and loved us. I won a copy of this book through World Book Night , a program begun in the UK last year to spread the love of reading. That program has now arrived in the US, and even though I technically shouldn\u2019t have qualified for receiving a copy of this\u2014WBN books are supposed to have been given only to \u201clight\u201d readers in the hopes that they become \u201cmoderate\u201d readers\u2014I will make sure that it will have been worth their while by spreading my love for this book about a book about love. ...<---F>more \u201c He was a great writer</---F>. He fell in love. It was his life. \u201d The Simplest Questions Are the Hardest to Answer What is love? Who am I? Is there a word for everything? What sort of book is this? What is a palaeontologist? What is a Palaeontologist? \u201c If he took a complete, illustrated guide to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, shred it into a hundred pieces, cast them into the wind from the museum\u2019s steps, let a few weeks pass, went back and scoured Fifth Avenue and Central Park for as many surviving scraps a \u201c He was a great writer. He fell in love. It was his life. \u201d The Simplest Questions Are the Hardest to Answer What is love? Who am I? Is there a word for everything? What sort of book is this? What is a palaeontologist? What is a Palaeontologist? \u201c If he took a complete, illustrated guide to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, shred it into a hundred pieces, cast them into the wind from the museum\u2019s steps, let a few weeks pass, went back and scoured Fifth Avenue and Central Park for as many surviving scraps as he could find, then tried to reconstruct the history of painting, including schools, styles, genres, and names of painters from his scraps, that would be like being a palaeontologist. \u201d This beautiful book is a similar cornucopia of fragments. The narratives have different textures, colours, size, shape, weight, mood, and style. They connect in often unexpected ways: pieces may split, run parallel, then diverge, or be reunited. And yet. The result is wondrous, strange, and deceptively simple. What Sort of Book is This? \u201c A kind of half-light in which the reader can project his or her own imagination .\u201d It is ostensibly about love, but is at least as much about surviving loss and postponing death. It\u2019s also about identity. And yet. The book itself has no single identity: love stories, investigative journal, self-help book, memoir, philosophical musings, historical fiction, bildungsroman, quest, survival manual, teenage diary, spiritual metaphor... It is like Newton's Third Law interpreted as poetic allegory. Every force is counterbalanced by an equal and opposite force: writing and reading, truth and lies, taking and giving, youth and age, future and past, hope and despair, hiding and being seen, and ultimately, life and death. Is There a Word for Everything? \u201c When will you learn that there isn\u2019t a word for everything? \u201d a reader says to a writer. Long ago, \u201csometimes people felt things and, because there was no word for them, they went unmentioned.\u201d Trying to describe the emotion of being moved \u201cmust have been like trying to catch something invisible\u201d. Years later, the writer calls a book \u201cWords for Everything\u201d. Many characters read, and all the main characters write, whether for publication or not, one \u201cbecause an undescribed world was too lonely\u201d. And yet. The bigger issue is the things that cannot be said, are not said, or are lost in transit or translation (whether by accident or design). Silence. Gaps. Absence. Loss. \u201c So many words get lost. They leave the mouth and lose their courage, wandering aimlessly until they are swept into the gutter like dead leaves. \u201d There are three main narrators, but secondary sources (paratexts?), often with unknown or misattributed authorship, are key to the plot: letters, photos, obituaries, drawings, and books that may be \u201cnot unlike the truth\u201d. Things are further muddied by mentions of real-life people (JL Borges, for instance), people who are real in Krauss\u2019 book and are central to works of fiction within it, and a couple of characters who may not be real, even in that fictional realm. Where is truth? Who Am I? I thought I knew who I was. I don\u2019t need to investigate or assert the truth of my identity in any legalistic sense, but like Alma S, I\u2019m named after someone. Unlike her, I chose to claim my name for myself, rather than learn more about the one whose name I bear. And yet. Of all the labels I can ascribe myself, many are in relation to others: mother, daughter, wife, friend, even English, British, European. I am not myself alone - even when it might feel like it. I can claim membership of numerous collective identities. Even as a reader, I am connected to other readers, as well as authors and their creations. Silence. Gaps. Absence. Loss \u201c I lost the sound of laughter. I lost a pair of shoes\u2026 I lost the only woman I wanted to love. I lost years. I lost books. I lost the house where I was born. And I lost Isaac. So who is to say that somewhere along the way\u2026 I didn\u2019t also lose my mind? \u201d The characters on these pages have variously lost lovers, a parent, a child, their homeland, their health, their mission, and acknowledgement of their authorship, and some are concerned with extinctions at a species-wide level. And yet. Like Tennyson\u2019s Ulysses, they continue \"To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield\". Survival may happen by accident, but it usually continues by will. While some focus on practical skills, most concentrate on ways to enhance and prolong life, and thus delay death - whether their own or someone else\u2019s. And yet. Krauss offers no easy answers, or even any definite ones. Just as there are many permutations to define who we are, so there are many, sometimes contradictory, ways to endure loss: Notice and be noticed - or hide to survive? Keep things the same - or change everything? Acknowledge and remember - or forget in order to live? Tell people you love them - or ask them to \u201cLove me less\u201d? Look forward - or look back? Develop rituals and superstitions - or apply cold logic? \u201cSacrifice the world\u201d to \u201cto hold on to a certain feeling\u201d Fill the gaps with facts or fiction - or\u2026 Learn to appreciate the beauty found in absence: the silence between notes of music, the pauses of punctuation: \" Where he saw a page of words, his friend saw the field of hesitations, black holes, and possibilities between the words. Where his friend saw dappled light, the felicity of flight, the sadness of gravity, he saw the solid form of the common sparrow. \" Image of leaf/bird by Ukranian architect Oleg Shuplyak. Source: http://amazingdata.com/amazing-pictur... This isn\u2019t a trite message about seeing the silver lining, but about finding a different way to see, to experience, to live, while acknowledging and appreciating who or what is missing. \u201c He learned to live with the truth. Not to accept it, but to live with it. \u201d What is Love? I am fortunate that the tragedies in my life have been minor compared with those experienced by the characters here. The cultural context and the smattering of Yiddish words are largely unfamiliar to me, too. And yet. Krauss spoke to me from these pages: to me, of me, and of others. \u201c I tried to make sense of things. It could be my epitaph. \u201d Sometimes, even if I've really enjoyed a book, I find myself thinking \" And yet. \" Not with this. Not even a little bit. I guess that means it's perfect - even if I can\u2019t adequately explain why, nor answer this final question. I am a reader. Krauss is a writer. I am in awe. Quotes \u2022\t\u201cOnce upon a time, there was a boy who loved a girl, and her laughter was a question he wanted to spend his whole life answering.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThe boy became a man who became invisible. In this way he escaped death.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cAt times I believed that the last page of my book and the last page of my life were one and the same.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThe truth is a thing I invented so I could live.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cAll I want is not to die on a day when I went unseen.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThe words of our childhood [Yiddish]... became strangers to us\u2026 Life demanded a new language.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThe traffic lights bled into the puddles.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cLife is a beauty\u2026 and a joy forever.\u201d Later, \u201cLife is beautiful\u2026 and a joke forever.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cIn the most important moment of his life he had chosen the wrong sentence.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cWhat is not known about Zvi Litvitoff is endless... These things were lost to oblivion like so much about so many who are born and die without anyone ever taking the time to write it all down.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cHolding hands\u2026 is a way to remember how it feels to say nothing together.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cSome were bought and read, many were bought and not read, some were given as gifts, some sat fading in bookstore windows serving as landing docks for flies, some were marked up with pencil, and a good many were sent to the paper compactor, where they were shredded to a pulp along with other unread or unwanted book, their sentences parsed and minced in the machine\u2019s spinning blades.\u201d \u2022\tA writer imagines books \u201cAs a flock of\u2026 homing pigeons that could flap their wings and return to him to report on how many tears shed, how many laughs, how many passages read aloud, how many cruel closings of the cover after barely reading a page, how many never opened at all.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cOnly now my son was gone did I realise how much I\u2019d been living for him.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cI\u2019ve always arrived too late for my life.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cI thought it would be strange to live in the world without her in it. And yet . I\u2019d gotten used to living with her memory a long time ago.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThe door between the lives we could have led and the lives we had led had shut.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThe grammar of my life:... wherever there appears a plural, correct for the singular.\u201d \u2022\tNot everyone stays in love: JM married young \u201cbefore we knew enough about disappointment, and once we did we found we reminded each other of it.\u201d Another says, \u201cIt\u2019s hard to imagine any kind of anything - happiness or otherwise - without her. I\u2019ve lived with Frances so long.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cShe seemed to pull light and gravity to the place where she stood.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cPerhaps this is what it means to be a father - to teach your child to live without you. If so, no one was a greater father than I.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cAt the end, all that\u2019s left of you are your possessions\u2026 Perhaps that\u2019s why I hoarded the world: with the hope that when I died, the sum total of my things would suggest a life larger than the one I lived.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cTo paint a leaf, you have to sacrifice the whole landscape.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cAfter my Uncle Julian left, my mother became more withdrawn, or maybe a better word would be obscure , as in faint, unclear, distant.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cIn another room, my mother slept curled next to the warmth of a pile of books.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cFOR MY GRANDPARENTS who taught me the opposite of disappearing and FOR JONATHAN, my life.\u201c \u2022\t\u201cOnce upon a time, there was a boy who loved a girl, and her kiss was a question he wanted to spend his whole life answering.\u201d Further Notes I have jotted down lists about the story, characters, and themes, showing the many and complex connections, HERE , but it is not a review (this one is), and it\u2019s full of spoilers. Reread Read in January 2016 and again in July 2016. This review was updated slightly, and my further notes/appendix one significantly. The reread was a bit like watching The Sixth Sense for the second or subsequent time: at least as good, but utterly different. The multi-threaded plot is so cleverly woven, and once you know the pattern, you spot all the little threads early on. In particular, on first reading, I didn't pay much attention to the irritating and self-important little brother, so his actual importance came as something of a shock. Knowing the outcome meant I was more interested in and sympathetic to him, and even more appreciative of the book as a whole. Image source, a heart, like the one used to represent Leo Gursky. Source: https://openclipart.org/image/2400px/... ...more Original Comments (Pre-Review): I would like to review this novel more formally in the near future, but to do so I'll have to flick through it and refresh my memory. My reaction at the time was that it was one of the best novels I had ever read. <---A>Nicole Krauss</---A> understands people and love and feelings and she writes about them in a word perfect way. As a reader, I am prepared to go wherever she wants to take me. I will trust her judgement. I have recently watched a few of her videos and interviews on Y Original Comments (Pre-Review): I would like to review this novel more formally in the near future, but to do so I'll have to flick through it and refresh my memory. My reaction at the time was that it was one of the best novels I had ever read. Nicole Krauss understands people and love and feelings and she writes about them in a word perfect way. As a reader, I am prepared to go wherever she wants to take me. I will trust her judgement. I have recently watched a few of her videos and interviews on Youtube and she's also someone who I enjoy listening to when she speaks about her craft and her choice of subject matter. This probably sounds very gushy and naive, but I promise to write something more considered. Review (September 26, 2011): Warning about Spoilers I have tried to minimise and identify plot spoilers. However, this is an emotional response to the novel, and might reveal significance that you might want to enjoy by way of your own detection. I hope that my review doesn't spoil anything for you, or if it does, that you quickly forget it. Lives Lived and Measured by the Deli Counter Nicole Krauss\u2019 \u201cThe History of Love\u201d is one of my favourite novels of all time. I read it once pre-Good Reads, and have just re-read it, so that I could review it. And I will read it again. Often. That doesn\u2019t count the numerous times I have fingered through the book seeking out passages and expressions and meanings and significances that stimulated or appealed to me. It\u2019s an exquisitely crafted tale of love, loss, longing, hope, defiance, resilience and, it has to be said, delusion. I love its Jewish wisdom and concern with the family, I love its Yiddish rhythms and expressions and humour and playfulness, I love the window it offers into the millennia of Jewish culture and enrichment of the world. When I open the pages of this book, I feel like I am walking into the best delicatessen or pastry shop in the world. Everything is there on display, everything is on offer (we can eat in or take away!). It\u2019s all been made with consummate skill and affection, it\u2019s designed to satiate our appetite, to enrich our lives. I look at it all, knowing it will feed us, it will sustain us, it will revive our energy. It\u2019s food for thought, it\u2019s food for life. I'm sure it will help us live our own lives and tell our own tales, it will equip each of us to tell our own History of Love. I am wearing my Second Avenue Deli t-shirt as I think and type this. Legend \u201cThe History of Love\u201d is written from four different perspectives, each of which is represented by a different symbol at the beginning of the chapter: Leo Gursky = a heart Alma Singer = a compass Omniscient Narrator = an open book Bird (Alma\u2019s brother) = an ark Once Upon a Time Once upon a time, there was a Polish boy named Leo Gursky who loved a girl across the field named Alma Mereminski. \u201cHer laughter was a question he wanted to spend his whole life answering\u201d. He asked her to marry him when they were both still only ten. \u201cHe promised her he would never love another girl as long as he lived. \"What if I die? She asked. Even then, he said.\u201d He carved \u201cA+L\u201d in the bark of a tree and had someone take a photo of the two of them in front of that tree. He writes three books for her, all in their native Yiddish, the last being \u201cThe History of Love\u201d. Book 1: this one was about Slonim (Alma says, \u201cshe liked it better when I made things up\u201d ) Book 2: he made up everything for this one (Alma says, \u201cmaybe I shouldn\u2019t make up everything, because that made it hard to believe anything\u201d ) Book 3: \u201cThe History of Love\u201d (Leo says, \"I didn\u2019t write about real things and I didn\u2019t write about imaginary things. I wrote about the only things I knew.\u201d ) In July, 1941, that boy, who was now a man of 21, avoided murder by the German Einsatzgruppen, because he was lying on his back in the woods thinking about the girl. \u201cYou could say it was his love for her that saved his life.\u201d Alma\u2019s father had already saved her by sending her to America. Unbeknown to either of them, Alma was pregnant with their son, Isaac, when she left. Oblivious to the birth of his son, Leo lives in hiding surrounded by Nazi atrocities. Letters back and forth fail to reach their destination. He even writes his own obituary, when he is in the depths of illness and despair. By the time Leo finally escapes to New York himself, five years later, he has become an invisible man in the face of death. He traces Alma, only to learn that she has had their child and that, believing he was dead, she has married another man. He is ecstatic that \u201cour sum had come to equal a child\u201d (\"A+L=I\"). He asks her once to \u201ccome with me\u201d, she can\u2019t and he does the hardest thing he\u2019s ever done in his life: he picked up his hat and walked away. He has little involvement with Alma or Isaac after that, except as an occasional remote observer. And yet. He continues to love Alma, though he now has another quest: to determine whether Isaac, who becomes a famous writer in his own right, ever knew about his father and that he wrote \u201cThe History of Love\u201d. Once Upon Another Timeline Once upon another time (it is the year 2000 when Leo is 80 and believes he is approaching death), a precocious 15 year old girl goes by the name Alma Singer. Her mother, Charlotte, a literary translator who specialises in Spanish literature, named her after every girl in a book Alma\u2019s father David gave her mother called \u201cThe History of Love\u201d. It is written in Spanish, and the \"author\" is Zvi Litvinoff, a friend of Leo\u2019s who, after Leo left Poland, escaped to Chile, carrying with him the original Yiddish manuscript of \u201cThe History of Love\u201d for safekeeping. Alma\u2019s father died when she was seven. Like Leo, Charlotte has continued to love him ( \u201cmy mother never fell out of love with my father\u201d ) and has never felt the need or desire to love another man. When Charlotte disposes of some of his possessions, Alma rescues an old sweater and decides to wear it for the rest of her life. She manages to wear it for 42 days straight. Alma is on her own quest: to know her own father better, to help her younger brother Bird to know him too, to find a lover for her mother and to learn more about her namesake in \u201cThe History of Love\u201d. In the midst of this assortment of delicacies, Charlotte receives a letter asking her to translate \u201cThe History of Love\u201d from Spanish to English. Family Plot I have included the above plot details, despite my normal reluctance to summarise plots in reviews. Please don\u2019t construe any of the details as spoilers. Most of them are revealed in the first forty pages, only not necessarily in that order. And I have left out a lot of the back story, so that I could set up this context, that family is fundamental to the plot, to \u201cThe History of Love\u201d, not to mention history itself. The Paleontological Detective Every crime needs its own detective and every detective needs their own methodology, even a child detective. Nicole Krauss twice mentions the task of paleontologists. \u201cBird asked what a paleontologist was and Mom said that if he took a complete, illustrated guide to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, shred it into a hundred pieces, cast them into the wind from the museum\u2019s steps, let a few weeks pass, went back and scoured Fifth Avenue and Central Park for as many surviving scraps as he could find, then tried to reconstruct the history of painting, including schools, styles, genres, and names of painters from his scraps, that would be like a paleontologist. \u201cThe only difference is that paleontologists study fossils in order to figure out the origin and evolution of life. \u201cEvery fourteen-year-old should know something about where she comes from, my mother said. It wouldn\u2019t do to go around without the faintest clue of how it all began.\u201d Here, the historical quest, the puzzle depends on your perspective. And there are two, the young and the old, the present and the past joining together to construct the future. For Alma, the young, the puzzle is what happened before \u201cThe History of Love\u201d found its way into her family? For Leo, the old, it is what happened after he wrote \u201cThe History of Love\u201d? Both have to sit down, sometimes patiently, sometimes impatiently, and work their own methodical way towards a solution of their own puzzle. In a way, their problem is the same: the problem of family. Leo loses a (prospective) wife and a son, Charlotte loses a husband, Alma loses a father. They have all lost the story of their family, of their love. Here, the novel is symbolic of the fate of the Jewish Family in the face of the Holocaust and the Jewish Diaspora. The Jewish Family has been dispersed all over the world, family members have been separated, the spine of their love and connections and cultures and books and stories has been severed. Their book has been shred into a hundred pieces and cast into the wind. Somebody has to scour the world, to find the surviving \u201cscraps\u201d, piece it all together again and reconstruct their history and their culture. And it will take a paleontologist. Or two. You Can Only Lose What You Once Had Leo once had Alma. He had a lover whom he loved and who loved him. He lost her, but he kept his love alive, just as he hoped that the object of his love was still alive (she actually lived until 1995). The novel is almost mythical or mythological in the way it tells this tale. Charlotte tells young Alma: \u201cThe first woman may have been Eve, but the first girl will always be Alma.\u201d So Leo and Alma are almost posited against Adam and Eve as the first boy and girl, the first to have mortal parents, the first children who ever fell in love with each other, the first to create a new family. Without the object of his love, he wrote about it. He kept his love alive, his love kept him alive. As he wrote in his own obituary, \u201cHe was a great writer. He fell in love. It was his life.\u201d And yet. His life stalled when he lost the object of his love. He ceased to live for any purpose other than the preservation of his love. His love became a fabrication that substituted for and subsumed his life. He appears to be in two minds about this: On the one hand, what more to life is there but love? \u201cI thought we were fighting for something more than her love, he said\u2026.What is more than her love? I asked.\u201d On the other hand, he recognised that he needed his invention in order to survive, that reality would have killed him. \u201cWhat do I want to tell you? The truth? What is the truth? That I mistook your mother for my life? No. Isaac, I said. The truth is the thing I invented so I could live.\u201d And again, his confrontation of the truth: \u201cThe truth is that she told me that she couldn\u2019t love me. When she said goodbye, she was saying goodbye forever. And yet. I made myself forget. I don\u2019t know why. I keep asking myself. But I did.\u201d And: \u201cAnd now at the end of my life, I can barely tell the difference between what is real and what I believe.\u201d Perhaps, the truth is whatever works for you. \u201cMy Friend Bruno\u201d Leo constantly refers to his friend Bruno. I have only one head, but I am in two minds as to whether he is real or make believe. He might be a self-generated survival tool. He is modelled on Bruno Schulz, the Polish author of \"The Street of Crocodiles\", which is referred to a number of times in the novel. He died in 1942, and Leo even mentions that he died in 1941 in the novel. He attempts suicide in the novel, unsuccessfully, so there might be a sense in which he is a darker twin of Leo, who nevertheless manages to prolong his life (in the same way Zvi Litvinoff manages to prolong his life by confiscating and caring for Leo's obituary when he seemed like he was about to die). His role diminishes as Leo embraces reality over the course of the novel. \u201cAnd Yet\u201d And yet. \u201cAnd yet.\u201d These two words are so important to the novel. They express Leo\u2019s defiance, his determination not to accept the hand dealt to him, his determination to avoid and evade the evil and the crime and the misfortune around him. It is his imagination, his ability to believe in something else that allows him to achieve this: \u201cI remember the time I first realised I could make myself see something that wasn\u2019t there\u2026And then I turned the corner and saw it. A huge elephant, standing alone in the square. I knew I was imagining it. And yet. I wanted to believe\u2026So I tried\u2026And I found I could.\u201d He has to imagine a better world than the one he has inherited or the one that his world has become. It was his love that enabled him to stop thinking and worrying about death, to stop worrying about the inevitability of his fate. To this extent, love is what keeps us alive, it is our heartbeat, it is the reason our heart beats (even if occasionally it causes our heart to skip a beat). Love is the defiance of death. It\u2019s not just something we do while waiting to die, it\u2019s something that keeps us alive. It keeps individuals alive, it keeps families alive, it keeps cultures alive and it keeps communities alive. Putting Your Legacy into Words The great tragedy within Leo\u2019s life after Alma is that he believes his greatest creation, \u201cThe History of Love\u201d, has been lost. In fact, it has been misappropriated, albeit without ill will. Again, I don\u2019t mean this to be a spoiler. We, the readers, already know that it must exist in some form, if Alma\u2019s family can read it and Charlotte can be asked to translate it from Spanish to English. Obviously, part of the resolution of the puzzle for Leo must be the recovery of his legacy. It is one of the things that will bond him with the family he had (but wasn\u2019t really able to have). The other thing we find out at the beginning of the novel is that Leo has had a heart attack that has killed one quarter of his heart. This reinvigorates his fear of death and the concern that he might die an invisible man, survived only by \u201can apartment full of shit\u201d. And yet, it also reinvigorates his creativity (which had stalled as well). Within months, he starts to write again, 57 years after he had previously stopped (possibly when he had finished \"The History of Love\" and had become an invisible man during the War?). What he writes ends up being 301 pages long, \u201cit\u2019s not nothing\u201d. It\u2019s his memoir, starting off \u201conce upon a time\u201d, in the manner of a fable or a fairy tale, which he almost calls \u201cLaughing and Crying and Writing and Waiting\u201d, but ends up naming \u201cWords for Everything\u201d. It\u2019s a polite, but defiant, retort to Alma\u2019s childhood challenge, \u201cWhen will you learn that there isn\u2019t a word for everything?\u201d Maybe there isn\u2019t a word for everything, but as \u201cThe History of Love\u201d itself illustrates, in the hands of the right person, it is possible to say everything in words. Leo sends the novel off to the address he finds for Isaac, in the hope that he will read it, only to read soon after that his only child has died. (view spoiler) [And yet...what Leo accomplishes over the course of the novel is the knowledge that his son had learned the truth of their family by reading \u201cWords for Everything\u201d and that the true authorship of \u201cThe History of Love\u201d had finally become known. His legacy has become concrete, and he can die content. (hide spoiler) ] Alma Singer What more can I say about Alma? She might not be blonde, she might not be beautiful, she might not be full-breasted (she's only 15), but she is an angel. Whereas Leo is contemplative to the point of occasional melancholy, Alma is an inquisitive, optimistic, dynamic, witty breath of fresh air (perhaps, it's the way she flaps her wings?). Her contributions to the story come in journal entries with numbered headings. (I like that!) And yet, it has to be said that her detective skills alone are not sufficient to lead her to the denouement of this fable. In the end, she realises that she has been searching for the wrong person. She might be the pointer to the future, her symbol might be the compass, but she is unable to find true north alone. If only because she wasn\u2019t present when a crucial phone call was made, the story needs her brother Bird to intervene, just like a \u201cLamed Vovnik\u201d would do. (Note: look it up like I did!) Her contribution ends up being a family affair. Lucky for her. Lucky Alma. Lucky Leo. A+L The last section of the book departs from the Legend at the beginning of this review. Instead, it is headed with the inscription \u201cA+L\u201d that Leo carved into the tree in his childhood. Each page is narrated alternately by Leo and Alma Singer. (view spoiler) [It is clear that Leo believes he has been invited to Central Park on Saturday, October 14, 2000, so that he can finally die. When Alma appears, he initially believes that she is an angel. \u201cSo this is how they send the angel. Stalled at the age when she loved you most.\u201d Just as Leo and his friend Bruno use tapping to establish whether one of them has died (two taps means, \u201cI\u2019m alive\u201d, the tactile affirms vitality), Leo taps Alma twice to prove to himself that he is alive and that she is real and not an angel. \u201cI wanted to say her name aloud, it would have given me joy to call, because I knew that in some small way it was my love that named her. And yet. I couldn\u2019t speak. I was afraid I\u2019d choose the wrong sentence.\u201d (hide spoiler) ] At this most crucial time, you would think that there wasn't a word for everything, when in fact there was only one word that would suffice: \"Alma\". More happens, but I\u2019ll deal with that under the SPOILER ALERT heading. Suffice it to say that the novel affords Leo some last joy. And who among us could deny that he earned that joy? SPOILER ALERT (view spoiler) [For me, the eternal optimist, there is some small ambiguity about whether Leo actually dies then and there at the end. Leo appears to stop tapping in order to speak Alma\u2019s name, which he does. The novel ends with Alma tapping Leo twice (which means that she is alive). Leo contemplates the timing of his death when he starts writing \u201cWords for Everything\u201d: \u201cAt times I believed that the last page of my book and the last page of my life were one and the same, that when my book ended I\u2019d end, a great wind would sweep through my rooms carrying the pages away, and when the air cleared of all those fluttering white sheets the room would be silent, the chair where I sat would be empty.\u201d Obviously, he didn\u2019t actually die when he finished writing the memoir, because he posted the finished work to Isaac. However, it\u2019s possible that he died when Nicole Krauss finished the penultimate chapter of \u201cThe History of Love\u201d. Certainly, her book (like the Spanish edition), finishes with the obituary Leo Gursky wrote for himself. And yet... (hide spoiler) ] Dedication This review is dedicated to the memory of Abe Lebewohl (the founder of the Second Avenue Deli in Manhattan) and to my daughter who turns 16 today and who lost her father in Manhattan and still hasn\u2019t found him again...And yet...he laughs and cries and writes and waits... ...more Nicole Krauss is married to Jonathan Safran Foer. They both live in Park Slope, Brooklyn, and they both write clever, critically acclaimed novels featuring preciously innocent narrators, magical realism, and some safe postmodern \"experiments\" (blank pages, pictures, excessive repetition, etc.) that you'd notice just by flipping through. I loved Foer's Everything is Illuminated , liked his Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close okay, and liked Krauss's History of Love a little less. I'm wondering now Nicole Krauss is married to Jonathan Safran Foer. They both live in Park Slope, Brooklyn, and they both write clever, critically acclaimed novels featuring preciously innocent narrators, magical realism, and some safe postmodern \"experiments\" (blank pages, pictures, excessive repetition, etc.) that you'd notice just by flipping through. I loved Foer's Everything is Illuminated , liked his Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close okay, and liked Krauss's History of Love a little less. I'm wondering now if my appreciation for Everything is Illuminated (and my waning appreciation for the other two books) is due to the fact that I read it first. I hope not. Here there are three narrators: Leo Gursky, a Holocaust survivor and sometimes writer, living alone in New York, waiting to die; 14-year-old Alma Singer, a precocious girl who has to deal not only with her father's death but with her mother's subsequent depression as well; and a third person omniscent narrator who relates the story of a little-known book called (wait for it) The History of Love . It goes without saying that these characters are connected in ways they don't understand (hint: by the mysterious book) and that somehow this connection, once made, will help everyone involved. That's all fine. Things, however, don't come together as well as they should at the end, despite some beautiful writing, and the book that lies at the core of this story, the book that has lived on for generations, changing lives along the way, is really just an annoyingly simple allegory about the genesis of \"love\" and other \"feelings\". Krauss has obvious talent, but it isn't enough to corral this messy pastiche of a novel. \"I try to make a point of being seen. Sometimes when I'm out, I'll buy a juice even though I'm not thirsty. If a store is crowded I'll even go so far as dropping my change all over the floor, the nickels and dimes skidding in every direction.\" ...more The great tragedy of life is this then, our friends are not allowed to finish their stories. My second reading of this book bore out my feeling the first time I read it. The first two hundred pages are a stunningly beautiful and moving account of love and loss and the stories hidden within stories and then, of a sudden, it\u2019s as if Krauss handed the novel over to her distinctly less talented husband to finish off the book. She ruins it with the fourth of her narrators, the entirely preposterous w The great tragedy of life is this then, our friends are not allowed to finish their stories. My second reading of this book bore out my feeling the first time I read it. The first two hundred pages are a stunningly beautiful and moving account of love and loss and the stories hidden within stories and then, of a sudden, it\u2019s as if Krauss handed the novel over to her distinctly less talented husband to finish off the book. She ruins it with the fourth of her narrators, the entirely preposterous whimsy of Bird who is a kind of identikit of Foer\u2019s equally irritating cutesy cutesy little boy narrator in Extremely Loud. Bird is a mistake and the attempt to add still more madcap tomfoolery and another search for a missing person, a person who doesn\u2019t exist, is just daft. Bird as a character is a joke that simply isn\u2019t funny. And to make another mystery of a mystery, to create another story with the honeycomb of stories, backfires horribly so late in the novel. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever read a novel that punctures so catastrophically towards the end and has left me feeling so angry and cheated. I'd forgotten how beautiful most of this novel is. How poignantly and succinctly Krauss conveys the childhood love of two Jewish children before the Nazis arrive. How magically she recreates Leo\u2019s memory. And how alive and full of the heart is the old man recollecting himself as a boy in the narrative. Leo is a brilliant and heartwarming depiction of old age just as Alma is a fabulous evocation of adolescence. Krauss writes brilliantly about love, in all of its forms. She\u2019s got a marvellous eye for epiphanies and evokes them with searing poetic simplicity. And the multi-layered form of the novel where three narrators are each telling missing parts of each other\u2019s stories is brilliantly achieved. It also works great as a literary detective story. Almost you have to keep a list of the clues as you\u2019re reading. So, absolutely brilliant until Krauss\u2019 ultimate recourse to whimsy, as if she and her husband were sharing some private joke, and which comes very close to spoiling the poignant moving emotional fabric of this novel. ...more Have you ever felt so moved that it's as if you're possessed? Reading The History of Love was like having my chest cracked open, the words flooding into me. Some passages I loved: The floorboards creaked under my weight. There were books everywhere. There were pens, and a blue glass vase, an ashtray from the Dolder Grand in Zurich, the rusted arrow of a weather vane, a little brass hourglass, sand dollars on the windowsill, a pair of binoculars, an empty wine bottle that served as a candle holder, Have you ever felt so moved that it's as if you're possessed? Reading The History of Love was like having my chest cracked open, the words flooding into me. Some passages I loved: The floorboards creaked under my weight. There were books everywhere. There were pens, and a blue glass vase, an ashtray from the Dolder Grand in Zurich, the rusted arrow of a weather vane, a little brass hourglass, sand dollars on the windowsill, a pair of binoculars, an empty wine bottle that served as a candle holder, wax melted down the neck. I touched this thing and that. At the end, all that's left of you are your possessions. Perhaps that's why I've never been able to throw anything away. Perhaps that's why I hoarded the world: with the hope that when I died, the sum total of my things would suggest a life larger than the one I lived. And this: Every year, the memories I have of my father become more faint, unclear, and distant. Once they were vivid and true, then they became like photographs, and now they are more like photographs of photographs. But sometimes, at rare moments, a memory of him will return to me with such suddenness and clarity that all the feeling I've pushed down for years springs out like a jack-in-the-box.... One more line, one that caused the words to swim on the page for me: \"The truth is the thing I invented so I could live.\" The novel unfolds through several character viewpoints, through different narrative forms - first person accounts, journal entries, excerpts from a novel within the novel itself called The History of Love, even poetry. There is a literary mystery, at the heart of which is a love story that inspires other love stories, so that the novel itself is a history of love. ...more \"All I want is not to die on a day when I went unseen.\" Leopold Gursky, Holocaust survivor, is a lonely old man who dreams of his long-lost love Alma Mereminski and survives each day with the desire to just be noticed by someone. He has one single soul he can call a friend in this world, Bruno, his \u201cold faithful\u201d. Alma Singer is a fourteen year old girl who lost her father and whose heart aches for the mother that can barely get out of bed and make it to the next day - \"My mother is lonely even w \"All I want is not to die on a day when I went unseen.\" Leopold Gursky, Holocaust survivor, is a lonely old man who dreams of his long-lost love Alma Mereminski and survives each day with the desire to just be noticed by someone. He has one single soul he can call a friend in this world, Bruno, his \u201cold faithful\u201d. Alma Singer is a fourteen year old girl who lost her father and whose heart aches for the mother that can barely get out of bed and make it to the next day - \"My mother is lonely even when we\u2019re around her\" . Alma and her brother, Bird, have each other, but Alma needs her mother to be happy and live in this world once again, not simply by getting by with just her memories. Then comes the day when Alma\u2019s mother is asked to translate a book called \"The History of Love\" \u2013 the very same book that Alma\u2019s father gave to her mother all those years ago and the one that provided the inspiration behind Alma\u2019s own name. Alma begins a quest to find a partner for her mother and becomes involved in researching the background of this book. We also meet Zvi Litvinoff, a Polish refugee living in South America. Litvinoff, too, suffers from his own private sorrow and grief, but is the fortunate recipient of loyalty and love from a woman named Rosa. Litvinoff has achieved some fame in his life with the publication of his book, \"The History of Love\". There it is again, that book\u2026 \"The History of Love.\" I thought this book was brilliantly written. There is a puzzle to solve here and we are only given snippets of the answers a little at a time. I must say that you have to be ready to devote your full attention to this book \u2013 so choose a time when you can do just that! I am very glad I read this after the holiday season; otherwise I admit that I may have gotten lost through the intricate weaving of the threads of this story. However, if you can devote your time and truly focus, the payoff is well worth it! Krauss\u2019s novel exudes such a feeling of loneliness and loss. My heart ached for Leo Gursky and young Alma Singer. There are moments of humor, however, when Leo exerts such efforts to get himself noticed. One scene had me laughing to myself and I won\u2019t soon get that one out of my head! Of course, love is a central theme in this book - love for a soul-mate, love for a mother, love for a son, love for a father, and love for the friend that helps you get through each day. The writing is exquisite and often quite lyrical. After reading this, it struck me that one cannot simply survive on memories alone, no matter how precious those memories may be. Trying to sustain oneself with the past keeps us from really living in the present. I will not soon forget The History of Love. \"Crossing the street, I was hit head-on by a brutal loneliness. I felt dark and hollow. Abandoned, unnoticed, forgotten, I stood on the sidewalk, a nothing, a gatherer of dust. People hurried past me. And everyone who walked by was happier than I. I felt the old envy. I would have given anything to be one of them.\" ...more I tend to be an emotional reader and my ratings reflect that. I finish books filled with excitement or sadness or intense dislike and write equally passionate reviews/rants, often including snazzy gifs to make my point. This is why some classics get 1 star and J.K. Rowling gets 5 stars and even Twilight gets 2 stars - I feel it's almost impossible to objectively judge quality of writing and literary value, so I usually rate based on the emotional effect the book had on me. That being said, I occ I tend to be an emotional reader and my ratings reflect that. I finish books filled with excitement or sadness or intense dislike and write equally passionate reviews/rants, often including snazzy gifs to make my point. This is why some classics get 1 star and J.K. Rowling gets 5 stars and even Twilight gets 2 stars - I feel it's almost impossible to objectively judge quality of writing and literary value, so I usually rate based on the emotional effect the book had on me. That being said, I occasionally think there are some books that are just built on a clever concept and become better the more you sit and think about what you've just read. In my opinion, The History of Love is one of those books. For one thing, this novel is something of a work of art. The graphic design - even of the dedications page - feels important to the novel without seeming overly gimmicky. I've actually always loved the concept of a book within a book: when a book, which forms part of the plot, also ties in with the physical book in your hands (or ebook, perhaps). In this case, the story features a book entitled - you guessed it - The History of Love , which carries an obituary at the end identical to the one at the end of this book. The real message behind the story is that by writing about things and stories, people who are dead and experiences that are long past are given the opportunity to live on through words. The fictional The History of Love in the story stays alive across time and continents because people read it and keep the memories alive. The implication with the ending of this book is that Krauss is doing the same and encouraging readers to keep Leo and his story alive. Another thing I love is having very different stories that run parallel to one another and intersect in ways you wouldn't imagine. I like the exploration of how small, subtle things can shape people's lives and how one unsuccessful author can have such a huge effect on the life of someone they never met. I guess in some ways it did make me feel quite emotional, but it took some thinking about first. I found Leo Gursky to be exactly the kind of character who evokes sympathy from me, but especially within this kind of context. We are introduced to him as an aging and extremely lonely man who is preoccupied with his own mortality and impending death. Once upon a time, Leo lived in Poland, fell in love with a woman called Alma, and wrote her a book he called The History of Love (which he believes was lost in a flood). But with fascism on the rise in Germany, however, Alma's father sends her to the United States where she builds a new life that Leo isn't a part of. When Leo finally makes it to the USA, he has no place in Alma's life and must forge a new lonely existence in a strange country. Meanwhile, another story is taking place somewhere completely different. A teenage girl called Alma was named after the character in The History of Love - her parents' favourite book that was , in fact, published - and she is currently trying to deal with the death of her father. In yet another parallel story, Zvi Litvinoff is the man who stole and published Leo's manuscript and now feels a terrible guilt for doing so. All these lives move alongside one another, rarely actually touching, but making waves for the others all the same. For me, the real message here is about the power of words and stories. How they can shape lives and have long-term effects that most of us don't recognise as they're affecting us. It's about the power that lies in being able to tell your story and having it be heard. It took me a while to compile my thoughts, but I highly recommend this book for those looking for a thought-provoking little read. Blog | Leafmarks | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr ...more Another book about everlasting love? How many times has the issue been discussed to death? T housands. And yet. This book is about a rare kind of love; a unique one that is fathomless and can only be expressed by the delicate hands of a virtuoso that reveals in the silences between words left unsaid, between the commas and the semicolons. Because an emotion as deep as the love depicted in The History of Love cannot be pinned down by conventional language. Gestures, the aid of several senses worki Another book about everlasting love? How many times has the issue been discussed to death? T housands. And yet. This book is about a rare kind of love; a unique one that is fathomless and can only be expressed by the delicate hands of a virtuoso that reveals in the silences between words left unsaid, between the commas and the semicolons. Because an emotion as deep as the love depicted in The History of Love cannot be pinned down by conventional language. Gestures, the aid of several senses working together and intuition intervening at once are required. Tap Tap. Nicole Krauss mingles unpretentious intellect with fresh humor and tenderness to present sobering themes such as the permanent damage the Holocaust left on survivors or the clashing of the rigid layers, individual and collective, that compose identity; and uses them as backdrop to solve the puzzle of the four non-chronological narrative voices that fly off the pages to disclose their seemingly unconnected stories. Appearances tend to be deceitful and the key to solve this tragicomic mystery lies within the written pages of a lost \u2013or maybe usurped?- manuscript, exhibiting a tasteful exercise of metaliterature. Leo Gursky wants to be noticed, to be made tangible through interaction with strangers, for he has led a phantasmagorical existence that is only real in his memories of life before the war. Now an elderly man in New York, he is trapped in a deadlock between his traumatic past in occupied Poland and his insipient present. Also an aspiring writer with a vast imagination, which he misspent writing obituaries, he dreams of angels that R esemble his first and only love, Alma M-E-R-E-M-I-N-S-K-Y \u2026 or was it Alma Moritz ? Alma Singer is only fourteen-years old but very mature for her age. She has set her mind on tracking down the woman she was named after following the thread of a special book that her mother is translating into English, which was a cherished present given to her by her deceased husband, whom she still mourns seven years after his death. Zivi Litvinoff shared his youth and his desire to become a writer with Gursky and published his only literary work, once stablished in Chile, because his devoted wife Rosa insisted on its precious and rare value. The Bird is the nickname of Alma\u2019s younger brother, who believes himself to be one of the 36 holy righteous, or lamed-Vovnik , who is sent by the Messiah to help lost souls and he picks his sister as the beneficiary of his mystical powers. The pieces are set. Do you want to play? Tap Tap. The result of this game is what first-rate, inventive storytelling should be. Light and weighty. Witty and heartbreaking. Tragic and serene. The result is also a cinematic alternation of overlapping story lines, which in spite of its fragmentary layout, achieves a common, poetic atmosphere capable of prevailing over the dissimilar menagerie of narrators and the atemporal maps from where they leap off the page and become real to the baffled reader. U ltimately, the result is a profuse contemplation on the consequences of forced E xile, loneliness, chance and of course, the restorative, uplifting power of _ _ _ _ love, words and literature that won\u2019t leave any lover of good literature indifferent. \u201cReally, there isn\u2019t much to say. He was a great writer. He fell in love. It was his life.\u201d Can you think of anything grander than that? Neither can I. Tap Tap. ...more \"If you don't know what it feels like to have someone you love put a hand below your bottom rib for the first time, what chance is there for love?\" What a reading experience! I went into this book knowing absolutely nothing about its premise. All I knew was that it is highly regarded by many of my Goodreads friends. What you should know is that right after I finished reading it, I spent the rest of the day rereading and underlining passages and clues I might have overlooked. Did you find yourself \"If you don't know what it feels like to have someone you love put a hand below your bottom rib for the first time, what chance is there for love?\" What a reading experience! I went into this book knowing absolutely nothing about its premise. All I knew was that it is highly regarded by many of my Goodreads friends. What you should know is that right after I finished reading it, I spent the rest of the day rereading and underlining passages and clues I might have overlooked. Did you find yourself doing the same thing after watching The Sixth Sense for the first time? Don't lie! This book is a compelling, heartwarming study of loneliness, loss and adolescence. At least ten to fifteen characters are inadvertently drawn together by a book published soon after World War II called The History of Love . The mystery behind its author and publication, and the different lives it touches up to present day unfold in a series of personal journal entries. Central to the novel are a group of teenagers who each survive and/or escape the Nazi occupation of Poland only to find the overwhelming loneliness and grief that awaits them when they attempt to \"start over.\" I guess it depends on what you're going through at the moment, but this book just made my heart hurt so much. Not enough to cry, but enough to remind me that I am human, and that we all have personal circumstances that we're struggling to overcome. Sometimes one good day in a gloomy month is so precious that we dread the setting of the sun. The more I think about it, the more questions I have. Love is such a complex thing, whether it's fufilled, reciprocated, or never comes to fruition...it can be the thing that pushes us forward and makes us get out of bed every morning. That is pretty powerful, and Krauss did a magnificent job of relaying that message. ...more How about the history of me bawling my face off. 1. What I like about Krauss's novel. Leo Gursky's melancholy, lonely presence. The sections of the novel told from his perspective are hauntingly beautiful. Alma's precocious teenager voice. Her voice is less compelling for me than that of Leo Gursky, but still good. The slow development of the connections between Leo, Alma, Zvi Litvinoff, Isaac, and the book The History of Love , in terms not only of plot but of theme. 2. What is mildly irritating about the book. Leo's habit of saying \"And yet.\" Alma 1. What I like about Krauss's novel. Leo Gursky's melancholy, lonely presence. The sections of the novel told from his perspective are hauntingly beautiful. Alma's precocious teenager voice. Her voice is less compelling for me than that of Leo Gursky, but still good. The slow development of the connections between Leo, Alma, Zvi Litvinoff, Isaac, and the book The History of Love , in terms not only of plot but of theme. 2. What is mildly irritating about the book. Leo's habit of saying \"And yet.\" Alma's lists. Each of her sections of the book is written in list form. It gets old after a while, even though it's an interesting conceit. The introduction of Bird, Alma's brother, as a new narrator in the last 30 or so pages of the novel. I would've preferred Krauss to find another narrative device or incorporate him more fully into the rest of the book. 3. What I am not sure about yet The structure of the ending. Bringing Alma and Leo's narrative voices together in alternating pages is a neat trick, but it involves a rather major shift in tone and pacing. What I liked about the first 80-85% of the book had a lot to do with the reflective nature of the story's development. Here, suddenly, we are moving forward in what is essentially real time and are given only short sections of each narrative voice at a time. The content of the ending. Without giving much away here, I will say that the concluding scene felt as if it wanted to be deep and meaningful, but was rather hollow instead. There is one major revelation, but it is not one that takes on the relationship between Leo and Alma (either Alma). The reader is left hanging regarding Leo and Alma as well as Leo and his book(s). 4. What else to say Despite my hesitations about the end of the novel, it gets four stars for its compelling characters and its ability to create a mood through the development of those characters. I began this book at about 11 pm, thinking I would get a jump on it before finishing it tomorrow, but it is now 3:30 am and I have just finished the book. I did not want to stop reading it and couldn't put it down until I reached the ending. Perhaps it is that ability to draw the reader in and make her read well past her bedtime in anticipation that makes the lightweight ending so disappointing. ...more Great original story. While it is sad its rescued from bleakness by Krauss\u2019s subtle humour and her inclusion of a mystery. A pursuit to unravel the origin of an obscure novel also called \u2018The History Of Love\u201d the book within this book that also happens to contain some great passages - the chapter 'The Birth of Feeling' my personal fav. Krauss excels in writing rich believable characters. Switching POV mainly between Leo Gursky, a Holocaust survivor & Alma Singer, a 14-year old grieving the l Great original story. While it is sad its rescued from bleakness by Krauss\u2019s subtle humour and her inclusion of a mystery. A pursuit to unravel the origin of an obscure novel also called \u2018The History Of Love\u201d the book within this book that also happens to contain some great passages - the chapter 'The Birth of Feeling' my personal fav. Krauss excels in writing rich believable characters. Switching POV mainly between Leo Gursky, a Holocaust survivor & Alma Singer, a 14-year old grieving the loss of her father - both terrific protagonists, the peripheral characters are as well. Standout\u2019s; Alma\u2019s kid brother Bird who imagines himself a * lamed vovnik and Bruno, Leo\u2019s only friend (view spoiler) [broke my heart when revealed he\u2019d also died back in \u201941, his surprise appearance on the streets of New York nothing but a figment of Leo\u2019s imagination (hide spoiler) ] and the lifeline he grasps to keep from sinking into the madness of complete isolation. \u201cMy old faithful. The soft down of your white hair lightly playing about your scalp like a half-blown dandelion. Many times I have been tempted to blow on your head and make a wish. Only a last scrap of decorum keeps me from it.\u201d Forgive me, I\u2019m fixated on Leo \u2013 he drove me nuts! His obsession with dying, his pining over lost love. A good day for Leo involves some quality pigeon-watching time interspersed with fantasizing about his upcoming funeral. \u201cAbandoned, unnoticed, forgotten, I stood on the sidewalk, a nothing, a gatherer of dust.\u201d He knocked me off balance - angered me that he did nothing to change the misery that was his life. I wanted to shake him, to shout at him \u2018What's so hard, you can't find a bingo parlor? Make a few friends?\u201d And yet. I adored him. For his humility \u201cThe year of my Bar Mitzvah I was visited by a plague of acne. As soon as the acne cleared my hairline began to recede, as if it wanted to disassociate itself from the embarrassment of my face.\" his soul searching \u201cI tried to make sense of things. It could be my epitaph. LEO GURSKY: HE TRIED TO MAKE SENSE.\u201d his tenacity, his \u201crejection of reality with its army of flat-footed facts.\u201d Funny, when I finished this a week ago I rated it 3\u00bd stars, got thinking about it, changed to 4 \u2013 a month from now might bump it to 5. Point is, it improves on reflection. And while no one who didn't experience it 1st hand could ever begin to comprehend what a Holocaust survivor must feel, I caught a glimmer. Enough to understand - Leo was so wounded that he was incapable of change. Want to thank Arnie for his review - the little nudge I needed: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... Hope you will read it to. Cons: A great story that\u2019s unnecessarily muddled \u2013 blame it on an overuse of literary tricks. I found myself having to go back & reread portions, sly of her but forgiven, I did catch nuances I'd missed. And yet. ________________________________________ *Lamed Vovnik: the thirty-six righteous people that God has chosen to save the world, duty bound to do acts of kindness for others and remain unknown to the world. \u201cHer kiss was a question he wanted to spend his whole life answering.\u201d ...more This book was promising at the beginning, but proceeded to get sloppy and puzzling, and then ended in an unsatisfying and unclear way. It's a convoluted plot involving a Polish Jew who falls completely for a childhood girlfriend, writes a book about her, and then is separated from both by the Holocaust. Not knowing the book was eventually published by the friend to whom he gave it for safekeeping, he now lives his old age in New York, lonely and waiting to die. His story is interwoven with that This book was promising at the beginning, but proceeded to get sloppy and puzzling, and then ended in an unsatisfying and unclear way. It's a convoluted plot involving a Polish Jew who falls completely for a childhood girlfriend, writes a book about her, and then is separated from both by the Holocaust. Not knowing the book was eventually published by the friend to whom he gave it for safekeeping, he now lives his old age in New York, lonely and waiting to die. His story is interwoven with that of the friend who took the book and published it under his own name, and a young girl in New York who was named after the heroine of the book and goes searching for her namesake. The chapters involving Leo, the author of the book, are well written and intriguing, very well (I imagine) reflecting the mindset and cranky humor of an old codger. The chapters about Alma, the namesake, are short, choppy, and disjointed, often going off on tangents that don't seem to have much to do with the plot. Then towards the end of the book, we all of a sudden start getting chapters written as diary entries of Alma's little brother. The odd change in format is an interruption to the flow, as is the final part of the book in which Alma and Leo finally meet; the POV switches rapidly back and forth between them, which I found slightly irritating. The ending was a bit of a let down after all of the buildup--perhaps I am not smart enough to understand it. ...more \"For My Grandparents, who taught me the opposite of disappearing and For Jonathan, my life.\" I don't think I have started a review with the dedication before now, but in this case I believe it is appropriate. Words are the way we fight against entropy, against forgetfullness, the way we demonstrate to the world and to ourselves that we are alive, that we have a past and a future. History is the act of connecting the past with the future, and Nicole Krauss argues that the way we love is a better \"For My Grandparents, who taught me the opposite of disappearing and For Jonathan, my life.\" I don't think I have started a review with the dedication before now, but in this case I believe it is appropriate. Words are the way we fight against entropy, against forgetfullness, the way we demonstrate to the world and to ourselves that we are alive, that we have a past and a future. History is the act of connecting the past with the future, and Nicole Krauss argues that the way we love is a better measure of our lives than wars or industrial revolutions or politics. Three separate strands are woven together in the novel. At first, they seem unrelated, and much of the plot is driven by the effort of a young girl named Alma Singer to find the connections between her own family history, a book called \"The History of Love\" written decades ago in Chile by a Polish immigrant, and a mysterious man who pays a lot of money for a translation of that book, now quasy forgotten. Also forgotten, living alone in an apartment filled with junk, is an 80 year old man named Leopold Gursky, who is afraid nobody will notice or care when he passes away. At the end, all that's left of you are your possessions. Perhaps that's why I've never been able to throw anything away. Perhaps that's why I hoarded the world: with the hope that when I died, the sum total of my things would suggest a life larger than the one I lived. I could start now to explain and to analyze the structure of the book, or the motivations of the characters, or the style of presentation. But I have a feeling that in doing so, I will do a disservice to the story, because this gem is one of those rare magic moments where you feel that instead of you reading a novel, the book is reading you, and putting down in words what you wished you had been able to do or write about your own life (as Alma father's remarks in the dedication he writes on the first page of the book). This novel might as well be about my own grandparents and father, who died while I was still a young punk, too obsessed with myself to ask for the stories of their youth, for their histories of love. Every year, the memories I have of my father become more faint, unclear and distant. Once they were vivid and true, then they became like photographs, and now they are like photographs of photographs. I admire Alma Singer for her efforts to keep the memory of her father alive, re-reading his books on survival in the wilderness and on edible plants, inventing stories about him to tell to her small brother, pestering her grieving mother to rebuilt her life. Alma is also a teenager, so she has to cope with her own emerging feelings of love. Did I tell she also worships Antoine de Saint-Exupery? That's just one more reason to like her chapters, and the lively entries she makes in her personal diary. Yet the character I identified with most is the old Leo Gursky, the invisible man, who feels the need to drop things in the supermarker or quarell with the chashiers, even goes to pose nude for a class of art students, just to feel that somebody is noticing him, that somebody might remember him. Crossing the street, I was hit head-on by a brutal loneliness. I felt dark and hollow. Abandoned, unnoticed, forgotten, I stood on the sidewalk, a nothing, a gatherer of dust. People hurried past me. And everyone who walked by was happier than I. If you don't know what Leo is talking about, I envy you, but there is more to him than meets the eye. Behind the decrepit facade and the cranky behaviour beats a heart still believing that life is \"a thing of beauty and a joy for ever\". In the silence of his room, he still puts words on paper, pouring out his passion and his pain, even if nobody seems interested in reading his novel. You see, he was not always 80 years old, and he can still remember the best years of his life: Once upon a time there was a boy. He lived in a village that no longer exists, in a house that no longer exists, on the edge of a field that no longer exists, where everything was discovered and everything was possible. A stick could be a sword. A pebble could be a diamond. A tree a castle. Once upon a time there was a boy who lived in a house across a field from a girl who no longer exists. They made up a thousand games. She was Queen and he was King. In the autumn light, her hair shone like a crown. They collected the world in small handfuls. When the sky grew dark they parted with leaves in their hair. Once upon a time there was a boy who loved a girl, and her laughter was a question he wanted to spend his whole life answering. I feel like there's nothing more to add after the last passage, without spoiling the magic. Yet, I must comment on the people disappearing from Leo and from the other people's life, because the reason the village, the houses and the fields are gone, the reason Leo and Zvi and many others are living in exile has to do with the crimes of the Nazis in the second world war. The plea against disappearance in the dedication is now extended to all the victims of the Holocaust, whose shadow is still looming over the younger generations. Nicole Krauss does a much more creditable effort in dealing with this highly charged event that the dissapointingly cute \"Book Thief\". She keeps the dignity of her people with understated intensity, and matter of fact enumeration of the many holes left in the personal and cultural space by the departed. A Book Within a Book ... and both of them sharing a name can be confusing at first, leading to a self-replicating loop bringing the reader from the last page back to the first. Who really wrote the book of love? Leo or Zvi or even Alma in her vivid imagination? Better yet, was it started centuries or millenia ago, and passed on from generation to generation until it landed in my hands? Is the novel published in Valparaiso still lingering on some dusty shelves in a dark second-hand bookshop that hardly anyone visits today, in the age of electronic purchases? Is there a copy of it to be found in the secret Cemetery of Forgotten Books in Barcelona? Speaking of ages, we only get to read fragments of this fabled history, more like short essays on the ways love as the highest art of communication between people, the way we are recognized and remembered. I have tried to bookmark some of these favorite passages regarding The Age of Glass, The Age of Silence, The Birth of Feeling, but I realized I should really quote whole pages, take them out of context, and that they are better left alone, to be enjoyed the way the author meant them to be, slipped between the memories of Leo and Alma. Even so, here's a sample of what I'm talking about: The first language humans had was gestures. There was nothing primitive about this language that flowed from people's hands, nothing we say now that could not be said in the endless array of movements possible with the fine bones of the fingers and wrists. [...] The habit of moving our hands while we speak is left over from it. Clapping, pointing, giving the thumbs-up: all artifacts of ancient gestures. Holding hands for example, is a way to remember how it feels to say nothing together. And at night, when it's to dark to see, we find it necessary to gesture on each other's bodies to make ourselves understood. To close my review of a novel I plan to give as a gift to my friends, one that I look forward with great pleasure as a re-read at some point in the future, I have chosen the words of one of the fictional historians. Did the book change my own life, as Zvi hoped for? Only time will tell. Staring out the window, Litvinoff imagined the two thousand copies of The History of Love as a flock of two thousand homing pigeons that could flap their wings and return to him to report on how many tears shed, how many laughs, how many passages read aloud, how many cruel closings of the cover after reading barely a page, how many never opened at all. He couldn't have known it, but [...] at least one copy was destined to change a life - more than one life. ...more I dedicate this review to the wonderful woman who graced the pages of Goodreads under the pen name of Fatty Bolger. It was her evocative and emotional review that drove me to pick up this magnum opus. Quoting from the book, I think it is pertinent for me to say about Krauss, what she says about Isaac Mortiz, \"To call him her a Jewish writer or, worse, an experimental writer, is to miss entirely the point of his her humanity, which resisted all categorization.\" The History of Love is not a book I dedicate this review to the wonderful woman who graced the pages of Goodreads under the pen name of Fatty Bolger. It was her evocative and emotional review that drove me to pick up this magnum opus. Quoting from the book, I think it is pertinent for me to say about Krauss, what she says about Isaac Mortiz, \"To call him her a Jewish writer or, worse, an experimental writer, is to miss entirely the point of his her humanity, which resisted all categorization.\" The History of Love is not a book written conventionally; it is an amalgamation of conventional themes, yes, but there is nothing conventional about its narration. I studied Sociology for three years, and one of the techniques, I remember my professor telling me, to study Sociology is Verstehen. Google defines it as an \"empathic understanding of human behaviour\", but somehow, I prefer my professor's definition of it. She called it \"putting yourself into the shoes of the person you study.\" She encouraged us to think like a killer, a woman (okay, this one doesn't hold for me, but you catch the drift), a homosexual... She said it was important, as a student of sociology to understand that the subject cannot be studied unless you feel for the societal subjects you are studying. I do have a point; I'm getting to it. Krauss is a flawless storyteller, and this is evident especially when she switches between chapters, each chapter written from the perspective of a different person. She perfectly manages to capture the love, the loss, the longing of Leo Gursky, an eighty-year old man, who has been alone, pining for the only woman, the only person whose opinion mattered, for a period of sixty years. A man waiting for his death, a man who knows that some day, very soon, his heart, his weakest part, will give out. She also seamlessly, in the next chapter, switches her tone to fit the voice of Alma Singer, a rather smart fifteen year old with a slow brother and a depressed mother. Alma Singer, who despite having lost her father hasn't lost her youth, or her drive to live. It's almost as if the division between the two chapters is a mirror; a mirror separating the youthful joy of Alma Singer from the aged indifference of Leo Gursky. Verstehen. \"All I want to do is die on a day I went unseen\" , Leopold Gursky says, as an eighty year old man, waiting for his day. He spends his days thinking about ways in which he may die; \"Maybe this is how I\u2019ll go, in a fit of laughter, what could be better, laughing and crying, laughing and singing, laughing so as to forget that I am alone, that it is the end of my life, that death is waiting outside the door for me.\" He spends his days thinking about love. About The History of Love. About her . The only person whose opinion he cared about. \"Once upon a time there was a boy who loved a girl, and her laughter was a question he wanted to spend his whole life answering. When they were ten he asked her to marry him. When they were eleven he kissed her for the first time. When they were thirteen they got into a fight and for three weeks they didn\u2019t talk. When they were fifteen she showed him the scar on her left breast. Their love was a secret they told no one. He promised her he would never love another girl as long as he lived. What if I die? she asked. Even then, he said. For her sixteenth birthday he gave her an English dictionary and together they learned the words. What\u2019s this? he\u2019d ask, tracing his index finger around her ankle, and she\u2019d look it up. And this? he\u2019d ask, kissing her elbow. Elbow! What kind of word is that? and then he\u2019d lick it, making her giggle. What about this? he asked, touching the soft skin behind her ear. I don\u2019t know, she said, turning off the flashlight and rolling over, with a sigh, onto her back. When they were seventeen they made love for the first time, on a bed of straw in a shed. Later\u2014when things happened that they could never have imagined\u2014she wrote him a letter that said: When will you learn that there isn\u2019t a word for everything?\" Sometimes, love is all we need. After all, it was his love for her that saved him. It is true that the love turned into loss. Because sometimes the things that are hardest to do, are the things that have to be done. Like walking away. Forever. But still, the pride that your legacy still lives on, in the guise of what you wanted to be, what you intended to be. That pride may save you. I interned at The Hindu about two and a half years ago, sometime in Winter 2013. Three of my articles got published with the by-line. It wasn't an achievement for me. My mother has framed photos of the article in her Office. Where she works. Because small as this may have seemed to me, no one was prouder of me than my parents. Isaac Mortiz may have been a best-selling author; no one loved his stories more than his father did. Unknown to his son, unseen to the world, Leo Gursky was a proud father. And when his son dies, unknown to his father, unexpectedly, Leo's world crashes. Because, really, does he have anything else to live for? \"The air felt different in my lungs. The world no longer looked the same. You change and then you change again. You become a dog, a bird, a plant that leans always to the left. Only now that my son was gone did I realize how much I\u2019d been living for him. When I woke up in the morning it was because he existed, and when I ordered food it was because he existed, and when I wrote my book it was because he existed to read it.\" Alma Singer. Fifteen. In love (maybe). Has the dubious distinction of dealing with her depressed, aloof mother, and her rather slow, yet unflinchingly fanatical brother. \"My mother is lonely even when we\u2019re around her, but sometimes my stomach hurts when I think about what will happen to her when I grow up and go away to start the rest of my life. Other times I imagine I\u2019ll never be able to leave at all.\" A mother she wanted to love her less; \"When I\u2019d come in, she\u2019d call me into her bedroom, take me in her arms, and cover me with kisses. She\u2019d stroke my hair and say, \u201cI love you so much,\u201d and when I sneezed she\u2019d say, \u201cBless you, you know how much I love you, don\u2019t you?\u201d and when I got up for a tissue she\u2019d say, \u201cLet me get it for you I love you so much,\u201d and when I looked for a pen to do my homework she\u2019d say, \u201cUse mine, anything for you,\u201d and when I had an itch on my leg she\u2019d say, \u201cIs this the spot, let me hug you,\u201d and when I said I was going up to my room she\u2019d call after me, \u201cWhat can I do for you I love you so much,\u201d and I always wanted to say, but never said: Love me less.\" A girl who perhaps never had the chance to grieve wholeheartedly for her dead father because she had to care for her mother and brother. A brother who jumped off the roof of his school, because he thought he could fly. A girl, looking to find someone for her mother, so that she could explore the Arctic. A girl who believed that Alma was a real person, indeed. \"\u201cOf course she\u2019s real.\u201d \u201cBut how do you know?\u201d \u201cBecause there\u2019s only one way to explain why Litvinoff, who wrote the book, didn\u2019t give her a Spanish name like everyone else.\u201d \u201cWhy?\u201d \u201cHe couldn\u2019t.\u201d \u201cWhy not?\u201d \u201cDon\u2019t you see?\u201d I said. \u201cHe could change every detail, but he couldn\u2019t change her.\u201d \u201cBut why?\u201d His obtuseness frustrated me. \u201cBecause he was in love with her!\u201d I said. \u201cBecause, to him, she was the only thing that was real.\u201d\" . A girl who memorised the Universal Edibility Test. A girl who fell in love with her best friend, but was too awkward to tell him so. A girl, whose story almost mirrored Leo's in so many ways. And yet. She has second chances. Zvi Litvinoff, who did everything he did for love. A tale of love, loss, and longing. How many times have we heard that before, you say? Only difference is, The History of Love deals with these in a ponderous, emotionally draining manner, that leaves you longing for more. And yet. The subtle elements of humour in it make it the brilliant book it is. \"At times I believed that the last page of my book and the last page of my life were one and the same, that when my book ended I\u2019d end, a great wind would sweep through my rooms carrying the pages away, and when the air cleared of all those fluttering white sheets the room would be silent, the chair where I sat would be empty.\" ...more If the opportunity to read this book in one sitting would have been available to me, I probably would have taken it. Unfortunately my job tends to cramp my reading style more often than not (admittedly not the worst problem in the world to have), but sometimes I can\u2019t help but think about how much reading I could get done if I didn\u2019t have to spend the best hours of my day doing work. Oh well. I suppose that is what retirement will be for. I really loved this book. The characters spoke to me and If the opportunity to read this book in one sitting would have been available to me, I probably would have taken it. Unfortunately my job tends to cramp my reading style more often than not (admittedly not the worst problem in the world to have), but sometimes I can\u2019t help but think about how much reading I could get done if I didn\u2019t have to spend the best hours of my day doing work. Oh well. I suppose that is what retirement will be for. I really loved this book. The characters spoke to me and they became real, flesh and blood people. Sometimes non-linear storylines bother me. And I\u2019ve begun to think that is because most writers are not capable of telling a story somewhat out-of-order without making it confusing. Nicole Krauss successfully employed the mechanism in The History of Love and I loved it. I kept reading to find out what it all meant. I kept reading to be surprised--and I was, pleasantly so. There are three concurrent storylines: Leo Gursky, an 80-something Polish-American immigrant who moved to New York to escape the Nazis. He lost his family, his dignity, his youth, and when he successfully arrived in New York five years later, he discovered that the girl he\u2019d loved since the age of 10, the girl whose \u201ckiss was a question he wanted to spend the rest of his life answering\u201d had married another, assuming Leo had been a casualty in the war. Alma Singer is a teen girl, living with her mother and younger brother. Her father had died of cancer when she was a child. Alma was named for the character of an obscure book, The History of Love , written by Zvi Litvinoff. Her brother suspects he could be the messiah and her mother is still mourning the loss of her husband and has shown no interest in dating or ever marrying again. This concerns Alma. Zvi Litvinoff is the author of The History of Love , a book that was originally written in Yiddish and thinly printed/released in Spanish. Litvinoff is dead before the beginning of the novel so the portions of his story are told posthumously. Krauss keeps you guessing as to what these characters have in common and it\u2019s not immediately apparent how these three characters are connected but by the end, everything is revealed and this story of missed connections, love lost, pride, humanity, sadness, aging and what could have been, all comes together. If I hadn\u2019t finished this book in a public place, I probably would have cried tears of happiness, and the whole time my heart would have been breaking. It was very touching. Fantastic story. Excellent. ...more It is not hard to like this book. The writing is stylish. Four POVs with two different settings and starts way back from the Second World War to the present. This is basically a love story between two young lovers in Poland. They get separated because the father of the girl sends her to America not knowing that she is pregnant with a child. The young boy follows the girl to America only to find out that she is already married and the child does not know that he is the father. So, the poor man, L It is not hard to like this book. The writing is stylish. Four POVs with two different settings and starts way back from the Second World War to the present. This is basically a love story between two young lovers in Poland. They get separated because the father of the girl sends her to America not knowing that she is pregnant with a child. The young boy follows the girl to America only to find out that she is already married and the child does not know that he is the father. So, the poor man, Leo Gursky lives all his life watching his girlfriend, Alma Meriminski and their son Isaac Moritz from the distance until they both die and Leo has no other reason to live. That's the first POV. The second and third POVs are those of two siblings Alma and Bird Singer whose father gives their mother a copy of the book that is written by the old man (first POV) while he is a young man in Poland. The fourth POV is an unnamed narrator telling us that the old man has a friend, Zvi Litvinoff who becomes the author of the former's book. But I will not tell you how the lives of these 4 narrators or POVs are interwoven or intersect because that is too much of a spoiler. In fact, the slow revelation of the clues or filling up of the blanks is the best deal this book offers. Well, of course, aside from the distinct voices of each narrator that make the reading quite a pleasurable experience. My first personal complaint is that this slow revelation, tease if I may, became dragging and repetitive especially during the second half of the book. So, while on that part, I was asking myself if Krauss had no other things in mind for her characters to do other than to make them wallow in their loneliness. It is too depressing I twice had to check if the author of the book was not Jodi Piccoult. I mean, life is not all about sadness, day-in, day-out, right? Even when my father died in 1997, after a few days, because all of us siblings were in town, we went to a karaoke bar and sang the night away because my US navy brother was about to leave the next day. So, even if my dad was buried just two days ago, we had to give our brother a happy moment to remember during his visit because he only sees us once in every 10 years or so. My second personal complaint is that there is a big similarity between Krauss' style of writing here and that of her husband, Jonathan Safran Foer's Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close like the almost empty pages and the young person searching for something. Here that young person is Anna Singer and she is looking for a woman called Alma Meriminski while in Foer's novel it is a young boy looking for the door that can be opened by a key. Had I not read Foer's first, I would have liked this book better. I am not against writing couples to compare notes but I hope they still maintain their own different styles so they don't appear as buy-one, take-one kind of thing. For example, some characters in the novels of Paul Auster and Siri Hustvedt may have that shade of detective mystery but all the other aspects of their novels are different. I have read 4 books by Auster and 2 by Hustvedt and they are among my favorite living novelists. Well, this is my first Krauss and Incredibly was my first by Foer and it might be still too early to say but right now, I have no urge of picking my second book by Krauss (unlike when I read my first Hustvedt that the next time I was in a bookstore I bought another book by her and started reading it upon coming back home). Just two small complaints. Overall, I still liked the book and it was worth my money (bargain at $1) and time (9 days of leisurely reading). Thank you to Mae, Rhena and Bennard for reading this book with me. They were very disciplined in following our reading schedule and shared truly insightful daily comments while reading this book. I would not have liked the book if not because of them. ...more 'Once upon a time there was a boy who loved a girl, and her laughter was a question he wanted to spend his whole life answering.' This might be one of the most beautiful sentences in the arsenal of the english language. Actually, I came upon this sentence in one of those click bait online articles entitled '50 Of The Most Beautiful Sentences In Literature.' Not a dignified source, I admit. Nevertheless the list was composed of greats such as Solzhenitsyn, Plath, Maugham, Eliot, Garcia Marquez, 'Once upon a time there was a boy who loved a girl, and her laughter was a question he wanted to spend his whole life answering.' This might be one of the most beautiful sentences in the arsenal of the english language. Actually, I came upon this sentence in one of those click bait online articles entitled '50 Of The Most Beautiful Sentences In Literature.' Not a dignified source, I admit. Nevertheless the list was composed of greats such as Solzhenitsyn, Plath, Maugham, Eliot, Garcia Marquez, Bronte, to lend it some small sort of credence. And so, recognizing about ninety percent of the writers, it was a pleasant surprise to see the sentence above resonate with me and not know the author. I looked up the book. Saw the great reviews, a lot of five stars from reviewers I trust. Got the book, read it, loved it. If I could describe this novel using one word, it would be 'tender.' It is actually a rare occurrence for me to come across a book and feel emotion from the prose. This was one of those rare moments that I felt the writing get to me. It supplemented a nostalgic yet hopeful story engulfing it in gorgeous prose that would move even the most stoic of readers. I have to admit that lately I have been having a hard time connecting to the voices of the books I read, but this proved unbearable even for all my lethargy. I'm not going to talk much about plot. It's a pointless exercise with a book as graceful. Just know that you are in good hands, and let it carry you. Surrender yourself. This is a book that looks at love in all its forms. It transcends romance and goes to where other books about love, those that call it romance, fail. Humanity. It believes that at our very core, we are beings that are capable of giving parts and wholes of ourselves to people, to romantic partners, to parents, to sons and daughters, to siblings, to family, to friends, to strangers, to those who need us. I want to believe that as well. ...more FANTASTIC..... A FAVORITE..... I'll read it again!!!!!! I LOVE THIS BOOK!!!!!!!!!! 5\u2605 The many and varied threads of this story are woven around a book called A History of Love and lead eventually to a complicated, satisfying conclusion. Not a happily-ever-after ending, but one that answered the important questions for me. Leo Gursky is an old Jewish immigrant living alone in New York. He reminisces about his childhood in Poland where he wrote countless stories, and he now has a manuscript in a box in his oven. He remembers the last time he saw his mother, when she\u2019d sent him in 5\u2605 The many and varied threads of this story are woven around a book called A History of Love and lead eventually to a complicated, satisfying conclusion. Not a happily-ever-after ending, but one that answered the important questions for me. Leo Gursky is an old Jewish immigrant living alone in New York. He reminisces about his childhood in Poland where he wrote countless stories, and he now has a manuscript in a box in his oven. He remembers the last time he saw his mother, when she\u2019d sent him into the woods to escape the Nazis. His childhood sweetheart had already migrated to America, and so he followed, thinking he\u2019d find her. Her name was Alma. But now, who cares whether he lives or dies? He carries a note that says: \"MY NAME IS LEO GURSKY I HAVE NO FAMILY PLEASE CALL PINELAWN CEMETERY I HAVE A PLOT THERE IN THE JEWISH PART THANK YOU FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION.\" He has a horror of ending up dead for days before someone discovers the smell, as has happened in his building. \u201cI often wonder who will be the last person to see me alive. If I had to bet, I\u2019d bet on the delivery boy from the Chinese take-out. I order in four nights out of seven . . . All I want is not to die on a day when I went unseen.\u201d He describes how he\u2019s aged, thinking it may be why people avoid him. \u201cThe year of my Bar Mitzvah I was visited by a plague of acne that stayed for four years. But still I continued to hope. As soon as the acne cleared my hairline began to recede, as if it wanted to disassociate itself from the embarrassment of my face. My ears, pleased with the new attention they now enjoyed, seemed to strain farther into the spotlight. My eyelids drooped\u2014some muscle tension had to give to support the struggle of the ears\u2014and my eyebrows took on a life of their own, for a brief period achieving all anyone could have hoped for them, and then surpassing those hopes and approaching Neanderthal.\u201d Alma Singer is a 14-year-old Jewish schoolgirl who lives in New York with her mother and brother after her father\u2019s died. Her parents named her after a character in the book they both loved, \u201cThe History of Love . Alma has dreams of making her mother happy again by finding her a new husband. Her younger brother, Bird, is a strange boy who thinks he may be one of God\u2019s special holy people and goes around performing odd religious acts. The kids become interested in a book Alma\u2019s mother gives her by a palaeontologist. Krauss\u2019s explanation is perfect. \u201cBird asked what a palaeontologist was and Mom said that if he took a complete, illustrated guide to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, shred it into a hundred pieces, cast them into the wind from the museum\u2019s steps, let a few weeks pass, went back and scoured Fifth Avenue and Central Park for as many surviving scraps as he could find, then tried to reconstruct the history of painting, including schools, styles, genres, and names of painters from this scraps, thaw would be like being a palaeontologist. The only difference is that palaeontologist study fossils in order to figure out the origin and evolution of life.\u201d Then there\u2019s Zvi Litvinoff, a Polish refugee in Chile who becomes famous after publishing a book, at his wife Rosa\u2019s insistence, called \u201cThe History of Love\u201d , a book of many stories, all of which feature a girl named Alma. And each of the threads in this book features an Alma. Beautifully done. ...more Thank you to the lovely, anonymous man in the Port Credit Starbucks who handed me the napkins, without a word, as I finished this up not an hour ago with tears filling my eyes. It was a perfect moment perfectly matched to this pretty much perfect book. ______________________ Read this book if: 1) you liked Incredibly Loud Extremely Close , Everything is Illuminated and/or The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-time 2) you like fictional, character-driven stories of Holocaust survivors e.g., The Thank you to the lovely, anonymous man in the Port Credit Starbucks who handed me the napkins, without a word, as I finished this up not an hour ago with tears filling my eyes. It was a perfect moment perfectly matched to this pretty much perfect book. ______________________ Read this book if: 1) you liked Incredibly Loud Extremely Close , Everything is Illuminated and/or The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-time 2) you like fictional, character-driven stories of Holocaust survivors e.g., The Book Thief or Fugitive Pieces to name just two 3) you're ok with some modest post-mod construction and precocious teen narrators/central characters 4) you hate [eta: traditional, boy-meets-girl/happily-ever-after] love stories because they trivialize the importance of love. This book is about love. And identity. And hope. And friendship. It is beautiful and poignant. It will shortly be read by every friend I have who has any sense in their heads. If you want to read a real review, see this one or this one . And thank you, Ian Graye, for bringing this novel to my attention with yours. ...more Krauss calls this book the history of love but it struck me as being more a history of loss. It is the story of a displaced person, an elderly man drowning in urban isolation, cut off from his only son and deprived even of authorship of his own words. He is a man who fears that he is invisible and whose only friend is in fact imaginary. Krauss has created an unforgettable character in Leo Gursky. I could have done without some of the smoke and mirrors she felt she needed to create around Leo's s Krauss calls this book the history of love but it struck me as being more a history of loss. It is the story of a displaced person, an elderly man drowning in urban isolation, cut off from his only son and deprived even of authorship of his own words. He is a man who fears that he is invisible and whose only friend is in fact imaginary. Krauss has created an unforgettable character in Leo Gursky. I could have done without some of the smoke and mirrors she felt she needed to create around Leo's story but I am very glad to have read it. ...more I finished reading \"The History of Love\" by Nicole Krauss a few days ago. Here's a synopsis: \"An unlikely and unforgettable hero, Leo Gursky is a survivor -- of war, of love, and of loneliness. A retired locksmith, Leo does his best to get by. He measures the passage of days by the nightly arrival of the delivery boy from the Chinese restaurant and has arranged a code with his upstairs neighbor: Three taps on the radiator means, \"ARE YOU ALIVE?, two means YES, one NO.\" But it wasn't always so. Si I finished reading \"The History of Love\" by Nicole Krauss a few days ago. Here's a synopsis: \"An unlikely and unforgettable hero, Leo Gursky is a survivor -- of war, of love, and of loneliness. A retired locksmith, Leo does his best to get by. He measures the passage of days by the nightly arrival of the delivery boy from the Chinese restaurant and has arranged a code with his upstairs neighbor: Three taps on the radiator means, \"ARE YOU ALIVE?, two means YES, one NO.\" But it wasn't always so. Sixty years earlier, before he fled Poland for New York, Leo met a girl named Alma and fell in love. He wrote a book and named the character in it after his beloved. Years passed, lives changed, and unbeknownst to Leo, the book survived. And it provides Leo -- in the eighth decade of his life -- with a link to the son he's never known. How this long-lost book makes an extraordinary reappearance and connects the lives of disparate characters is only one of the small miracles The History of Love offers its readers.\" - from bn.com My thought at the end of the book was - The ending brought the book up from good to very good. Still not great. I wanted to love this book. I really did. I had loved the excerpt I'd read in the New Yorker, and I was expecting to love the whole thing. I particularly loved the characters she created: Leo Gursky - who was so vivid, and interesting, with such a distinct voice. Alma Singer - a fourteen year old girl in a novel I could actually relate to for once. Smart, but not annoyingly/precociously so. Body issues, but not to the point where she felt sorry for herself as a person. Bird - my only complaintis that I feel like he got short shrift. He's so interesting, I think he deserved a novel of his own. He was reduced to a plot device, and that really irritated me, because I liked him so much. To have his interest in his faith exist only to serve Alma's search was downright criminal.(and why is his religious fervence treated like an illness instad of as something that can actually help him through his father's death? Just curious...) What bothered me was that Krauss seemed to be trying too hard to be \"experiemental.\" (whatever that means anymore...) What I loved about Man Walks Into a Room, her first novel, was its language and its directness. How it told a story. But for everything I enjoyed about this book, there were two that either annoyed me or confused me. There are some beautiful poignant passages in this book - about lost/new love, about identity, about growing older...but then there's a page of charts for no real reason. Alma tells her story in list form. There are pages with only one or two sentences on them (some successful, some not). I dont' feel like any of these \"tricks\" suited the story she was trying to tell. It didn't feel like that's the way the story needed to be told - also, this didn't feel like Krauss' voice to me. It felt as if she were doing an impression...or at the very least, she was a ventriloquist speaking through a dummy. I missed her voice. I wanted to hear Nicole Krauss speak...I ended up hearing who she thought we wanted to hear. It's not the same thing. ...more I've seen The History of Love on several other blogger's reading lists and after being made aware of the fact that the author, Nicole Krauss, is married to the author of Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close, a book I enjoyed only a couple of months ago, I made a reservation at the library. In the mood for a romance, when it arrived, I bumped this book past others that have been sitting on my nightstand longer. At first, I was completely absorbed in the writing and Leo Gursky. I even told Emily thi I've seen The History of Love on several other blogger's reading lists and after being made aware of the fact that the author, Nicole Krauss, is married to the author of Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close, a book I enjoyed only a couple of months ago, I made a reservation at the library. In the mood for a romance, when it arrived, I bumped this book past others that have been sitting on my nightstand longer. At first, I was completely absorbed in the writing and Leo Gursky. I even told Emily this book might go on my list of Top Ten favorites. Oh, how I loved Leo's thoughts and his \"But.\" and \"And yet.\" sentences. So stretchy. Those frequently used simple sentences created a narrative of yearning and unfufillment that perfectly expressed Leo's character's disappointment in life. When it was Alma's turn to speak and disclose, I wasn't nearly so infatuated. Her thoughts and questions lacked the honesty and pain that the much older Leo was able to possess, which makes sense as Alma was only fourteen. Still, I persevered and even enjoyed the minute and slow discoveries she was making. This book is almost a mystery. The hows and the whys are confusing and it isn't until the end that the missing key is given which opens up the full heartache and confusion of all the characters. Unfortunately, by this time, I was much less enchanted with the entire story as I found way too many parallels with her husband's book that I had already read. They are both about Jewish people divided by a generation who come together through letters. They are both set in New York City with flashbacks to Germany during World War II. They both involve extremely precocious and unnaturally odd children who lose a parent and deal with their grief by setting out on an expedition of discovery. And they both end abysmally disappointing with dysfunction winning over true love. Sigh. I think I would have loved this book had I read it first or only. Sadly, both books feel tainted to me now. Like, maybe....in a perfect world, I could have enjoyed Singing Bee on NBC. But then Fox came out with Don't Forget the Lyrics. Same idea, different show...I enjoy neither because I don't like copying. These books don't plagiarize each other or anything, but there are too many similarities for either to be the original and the great books that they are supposed to me. Maybe they need to set their typewriters up in different ...more Disappointing ending & trite, too. I think the plotting is pretty piss-poor. A very convoluted bifurcated structure of telling a story that hinges on a poor coincidental set of facts, and when you really stop to think about it -- you wonder if you've just spent 200 pages reading and trying to guess at two or three patched up facts that hardly amount to a mystery. Krauss has an engaging storytelling style, even stunning prose at times, punctured with welcome humor, but the strands do not come Disappointing ending & trite, too. I think the plotting is pretty piss-poor. A very convoluted bifurcated structure of telling a story that hinges on a poor coincidental set of facts, and when you really stop to think about it -- you wonder if you've just spent 200 pages reading and trying to guess at two or three patched up facts that hardly amount to a mystery. Krauss has an engaging storytelling style, even stunning prose at times, punctured with welcome humor, but the strands do not come together for a satisfying ending. The most impressive thing for me was watching two main characters with their want -- one geriatric pining for a son who does not even know who his real father is, and a 14 year old girl whose father's just passed away, trying to deal with it all, and trying to resolve her mother's depression by hooking her up with random men she thinks might be appropriate substitution. There's a lot of potential here, but too much depended on the girl and the geriatric meeting at the end, and neither's predicament or conflict is resolved (akthough Krauss tries to contrive a semblance of resolution, but no cigar for this reader). ...more My review of this wonderful book is HERE . What follows below is not a review. This page is a collection of lists about the story, characters, and themes, showing the many and complex connections between them, but without any emotional response or analysis. It is almost entirely made up of spoilers, so don't read it if you have not read the book - and maybe not even then. (view spoiler) [Seriously, this is FULL of spoilers. Please think before you click. Chapters and Narrators in Nicole Krauss\u2019 \u201cHis My review of this wonderful book is HERE . What follows below is not a review. This page is a collection of lists about the story, characters, and themes, showing the many and complex connections between them, but without any emotional response or analysis. It is almost entirely made up of spoilers, so don't read it if you have not read the book - and maybe not even then. (view spoiler) [Seriously, this is FULL of spoilers. Please think before you click. Chapters and Narrators in Nicole Krauss\u2019 \u201cHistory of Love\u201d (view spoiler) [ Each narrator or point of view is marked by a symbol: Leo = anatomical heart Alma Singer = compass Omniscient narrator telling of Zvi Litvinoff = open book Bird Singer = ark p1. The Last Words on Earth\t\t\t\t\t - Leo p35. My Mother\u2019s Sadness\t\t\t\t - Alma S p65. Forgive Me\t\t\t\t - Omniscient / Zvi p75. A Joy Forever\t\t\t\t\t\t - Leo p93. My Father\u2019s Tent\t\t\t\t\t - Alma S p110. The Trouble with Thinking\t\t - Omniscient / Zvi p119. Until the Writing Hand Hurts\t\t\t\t - Leo p135. Flood\t\t\t\t\t\t - Alma S p153, Here We Are Together\t\t\t - Omniscient / Zvi p160. Die Laughing\t\t\t\t\t\t - Leo p170. If Not, Not\t\t\t\t\t - Alma S p183. The Last Page\t\t\t\t - Omniscient / Zvi p192. My Life Under Water\t\t\t\t - Alma S p203. One Nice Thing\t\t\t\t - Bird p208. The Last Time I Saw You\t\t\t\t - Leo p213. Would a Lamed Vovnik Do This?\t - Bird p219. A+L\t\t\t\t\t\t\t - Alma S and Leo (hide spoiler) ] The Three Books Young Leo Writes for Alma M (view spoiler) [ 1.\tAbout their home town of Slonim, but Alma \u201cliked it better when I made things up.\u201d 2.\tHe made it all up, but Alma said \u201cI shouldn\u2019t make up everything, because that made it hard to believe anything.\u201d 3.\t\"I didn\u2019t write about real things and I didn\u2019t write about imaginary things. I wrote about the only things I knew.\u201d (hide spoiler) ] Chapters of the Fictional \u201cThe History of Love\u201d Mentioned in Krauss\u2019s one (view spoiler) [ There are 39 chapters, but only these are named and described, strange and beautiful allegories all - except the last: (Introduction to reprint, by Rosa Litvinoff) 1. The Age of Silence, p72: \u201cThe first language humans had was gestures.\u201d 10. The Age of Glass, p61: \u201cEveryone believed some part of him or her to be extremely fragile.\u201d ??. The Birth of Feeling (one of the first 15 chaps), p106: \u201cThere was a first time joy was felt, and a first time for sadness.\u201d 14. The Age of String, p111: \u201cIt wasn\u2019t uncommon to use a piece of string to guide words.\u201d 18. Love Among the Angels, p185: Angels sleep badly, can\u2019t smell, and don\u2019t fall in love. 39. The Death of Leopold Gursky, p255. (hide spoiler) ] Obituaries Written by Leo as a Young Man (view spoiler) [ When Leo is ill and possibly dying, Zvi, who writes obituaries for a newspaper, finds a collection of obituaries by Leo, including: \u2022\tThe Death of Isaac Babel (a (real) writer who had just died in the story and about whom Zvi had just published an obituary) \u2022\tFranz Kafka is Dead \u2022\tThe Death of Tolstoy \u2022\tThe Death of Osip Mandelstam \u2022\tThe Death of Leopold Gursky (hide spoiler) ] Leo\u2019s Final Book (view spoiler) [ The book he writes after his heart attack and eventually sends to Isaac is \u201cWords for Everything\u201d - contradicting what Alma M (Isaac\u2019s mother) told him when they were both children and he was writing for her. (hide spoiler) ] Isaac Moritz\u2019s Books (view spoiler) [ 1. The Remedy \u2013 award-winning best seller 2. Glass Houses \u2013 short stories 3. Sing 4. ? - novel 5. ? - novel 6. (Words for Everything \u2013 found among his papers after his death) (hide spoiler) ] Real Books and Writers (view spoiler) [ \u2022\t\u201cThe Street of Crocodiles\u201d by Bruno Schulz is read by \u201cJacob Marcus\u201d and then Alma S \u2022\t\u201cThe Little Prince\u201d by Saint-Exup\u00e9ry, read to Alma S by her father. \u2022\tJorge Luis Borges is said to live near to Zvi and to a plot-critical bookshop in Valparaiso. \u2022\tCervantes is read and translated by Charlotte Singer, as are the poems of Nicanor Parra. \u2022\tNeruda and Dario are read and compared by Zvi and Rosa, when courting. \u2022\t \u201cThe Destruction of the European Jews\u201d by Raul Hilberg. (hide spoiler) ] Fictitious Books and Writers (view spoiler) [ \u2022\t\u201cThe History of Love\u201d, read to Alma S as a child, given to her mother by her father, with the dedication, \u201cThis is the book I would have written for you if I could write.\u201d She is named after Alma in the book. It was also read to \u201cJacob Marcus\u201d, many years ago (probably by Alma M). \u2022\t\u201cLife as We Don\u2019t Know It\u201d by Daniel Eldridge. A book of David Singer\u2019s, given to Alma S on her 14th birthday by her mother. \u2022\t\u201cHow to Survive in the Wild\u201d (three volumes) belonged to David Singer and is read by his daughter Alma. \u2022\t\u201cEdible Plants and Flora of North America\u201d (three volumes \u2013 but also what Alma S calls her notebooks) \u2022\t\u201cThe Book of Jewish Thoughts\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThe History of the Jews\u201d (18 volumes!) \u2022\t\u201cThe Incredible, Fantastic Adventures of Frankie, Toothless Girl Wonder\u201d, by Leopold Gursky (a different one) (hide spoiler) ] Characters who Write (view spoiler) [ Published writers: \u2022\tLeo Gursky \u2013 but not under his own name \u2022\tZvi Litvinoff \u2013 but not his own words \u2022\tIsaac Moritz \u2022\tCharlotte Singer - translations from Hebrew and Spanish into English Others whose writings and jottings are central to the plot: \u2022\tAlma Singer \u2013 diary/notebook, letters to Russian penpal then Misha, and forged letters (to \u201cJacob Marcus\u201d) \u2022\tBird Singer \u2013 diary, forged notes (to Leo and Alma M) \u2022\tRosa Litvinoff \u2013 introduction to reissue of History of Love, forged letter (to Leo) \u2022\t\u201cJacob Marcus\u201d - letters \u2022\tUncle Julian (Charlotte Singer\u2019s brother) \u2013 letters, and book about Giacometti (hide spoiler) ] Words/Names (view spoiler) [ \u2022\tAlma M tells Leo \u201cthere isn\u2019t a word for everything\u201d. \u2022\tLearning (English) words is part of Leo and Alma M\u2019s courting. \u2022\tThe book Leo writes as an old man is called \u201cWords for Everything\u201d. \u2022\tAlma S and Bird play a game of NOT words: pointing to a chair and saying \u201cThis is not a chair\u201d, for example. \u2022\tBird writes God\u2019s name on things so they can\u2019t be thrown away. \u2022\tThe janitor buries damaged siddurs with great respect because they have God\u2019s name on. (hide spoiler) ] Loss: Who and What\u2019s Been Lost by Whom (view spoiler) [ \u2022\tGirlfriend: Leo \u2022\tPossible girlfriend: Zvi \u2022\tBoyfriend: Alma S \u2022\tHusband: Charlotte \u2022\tFather: Isaac (sort of), Alma S, and Bird \u2022\tParents: Leo \u2022\tSiblings: Leo \u2022\tChild: Leo \u2022\tHomeland: Leo, Alma M, Zvi \u2022\tHealth: Leo \u2022\tMission: Bird \u2022\tAuthorship: Leo (twice) (hide spoiler) ] Identity: Who\u2019s Not Who or What (view spoiler) [ \u2022 Isaac Moritz is not Mordecai Moritz\u2019s son, he\u2019s Leo\u2019s. \u2022 Leo Gursky discovers there\u2019s a writer of children\u2019s books who shares his name. \u2022 Leo \u2019s first book, \u201cThe History of Love\u201d, written in Yiddish, is published in Spanish under the name of his friend, Zvi Litvinoff. \u2022 Leo \u2019s second book, \u201cWords for Everything\u201d is erroneously published under Isaac\u2019s name, because Leo posted it to Isaac, and when Isaac dies, the manuscript is on his desk. \u2022\t\u201c Jacob Marcus\u201d, who commissions the translation of \u201cThe History of Love\u201d from Spanish to English, is the name of a character in Isaac Moritz\u2019s book, \u201cThe Remedy\u201d. \u2022 Alma S writes to \u201cJacob Marcus\u201d, pretending to be her mother. \u2022\tWhen Alma S asks about her ethnic background, she\u2019s given a bewildering array of equally valid permutations. She concludes she\u2019s American. Bird says she\u2019s Jewish. \u2022 Alma M is a real person in Krauss\u2019 book who is fictionalised in the fictional \u201cThe History of Love\u201d. \u2022\tWhat about Bruno ? He\u2019s Leo\u2019s childhood friend, reunited in later life, now living in the flat above. They look out for each other, they \u201ctap, tap\u201d on the pipes to check each is still alive\u2026 And yet. At times, I wondered if adult Bruno was a figment of Leo\u2019s imagination, or an alter ego: \u201cThe friend I didn\u2019t have\u2026 the greatest character I ever wrote.\u201d \u2022 Bird would never answer to his real name. Eventually, a nickname stuck instead. \u2022 Bird struggles with whether he is a Lamed Vovnik or not (one of the thirty-six righteous Jews upon whom the continued existence of the world depends). (hide spoiler) ] Connections and Coincidences (view spoiler) [ \u2022 Survival The underlying theme is emotional survival, but Alma S and Bird are explicitly interested in more physical survival: Alma in the wild, and Bird from a great flood (though previously, Bird was injured jumping from a window). \u2022 Flood Rosa lies about a flood, and then creates one. Bird prepares for one. One of Alma S\u2019s chapters is titled \u201cMy Life Underwater\u201d. \u2022 Life drawing Leo sits for a life drawing class, and Alma S attends a life drawing class. She goes through a phase of wearing her father\u2019s oversized sweater. On his way to the class, Leo passes a girl in a large sweater, with holes in it. \u2022 Silence Chapter 1 of the fictional \u201cThe History of Love\u201d is \"The Age of Silence\", and silence, and what is unsaid, are recurring themes of Krauss\u2019 book of the same title. \u2022 Glass Chapter 10 of the fictional \u201cThe History of Love\u201d is \"The Age of Glass\", and Isaac Moritz's second book is called \"Glass Houses\". \u2022 Sing(er) One of Isaac\u2019s books is titled \u201cSing\u201d, and Singer is the surname of David, Charlotte, Alma and Bird. \u2022 Locks Leo is a locksmith: \u201cThe world\u2019s doors\u2026 are never truly locked to me\u201d, but he can\u2019t unlock the truth: \u201cI was a locksmith\u2026 And yet I couldn\u2019t unlock anything I wanted to unlock\u201d. But he carves his initials on locks. Zvi Litvinoff hides his guilty secret \u201clocked with a key he thought he\u2019d hidden\u201d. Others lock out people and experiences. \u2022 Photos Leo wanted to take a picture of Alma M every day. When his cousin made a pin-hole camera, three attempts at photographing Leo yielded nothing, \u201cI\u2019d lost whatever the thing is that makes people indelible.\u201d In later life, Leo makes regular visits to a photobooth to record his own aging, \u201cthe opposite of disappearing\u201d. Old Leo keeps a slide projector under his bed for \u201cspecial occasions\u201d. There\u2019s a photo of Charlotte Singer that no one has seen, taken by a blind man, of which Alma S says, \u201cI think there is a moral to this story, but I don\u2019t know what it is\u201d. Leo steals a photo of him and Alma M from the house of Isaac\u2019s half brother, Bernard. Zvi has a single framed photo of a boy and a girl \u2013 but it\u2019s (probably) him and his siter Miriam, not Leo and Alma M. Alma S says: \u201cEvery year, the memories I have of my father become more faint, unclear, distant. Once they were vivid and true, then they became like photographs, and now they are more like photographs of photographs.\u201d Charlotte talks to a photo of her dead husband. \u2022 Memories They fade like photos, as Alma S realises. Alma S makes a list of thirteen memories passed down to her by her mother. Father can\u2019t be replaced in mother\u2019s affections because \u201cThe memories she had of Dad, memories that soothed her even while they made her sad, because she\u2019d built a world out of them she knew how to survive in, even if no one else could.\u201d \u2022 The awkward humour of youthful fumblings Leo and Alma M, Charlotte and David Singer, Zvi and Rosa Litvinoff, Alma S and Misha, Alma S and Herman. (hide spoiler) ] Ways of Postponing Death (view spoiler) [ \u2022\tHiding (on the run from Nazis): \u201cThe boy became a man who became invisible. In this way he escaped death.\u201d \u2022\tLeo proposed to Alma M partly to stop being preoccupied with thoughts of death. \u2022\tBeing seen: old Leo, making a scene, so he wouldn\u2019t die on a day when no one had noticed him. \u2022\tPublishing someone\u2019s words - Zvi\u2019s unconscious justification. \u2022\tReading an obituary of one not yet dead, as an incantation, a prayer for life. \u2022\tHiding an obituary of one not yet dead to buy time: \u201cthe page he\u2019d protected all night from becoming real, so that he could buy a little more time - for his friend, for life\u201d. \u2022\tWriting: \u201cAt times I believed that the last page of my book and the last page of my life were one and the same.\u201d \u2022\tTelling stories: \u201cThe truth is a thing I invented so I could live.\u201d \u2022\tTapping twice for \u201calive\u201d: Leo/Bruno on water pipes, and in the final scene with Alma S in the park. \u2022\tPrepping/hoarding - for flood or survival in the wild. \u2022\tPraying, \u201cbegging God to spare me as long as possible\u201d. \u2022\tLoving. (hide spoiler) ] The History of \u201cThe History of Love\u201d (view spoiler) [ DO NOT READ THIS UNLESS YOU HAVE READ THE BOOK. SERIOUSLY. (view spoiler) [ Leo writes it, in Yiddish, for Alma M. He gives the manuscript to Zvi for safekeeping. Zvi translates it into Spanish, changing all the names except Alma\u2019s, and adding Leo\u2019s obituary of Leo as an inexplicable postscript. Zvi hides the original (buried, then locked away). It\u2019s published in Chile, under Zvi\u2019s name. David Singer buys a second-hand copy and gives \u2013 and inscribes \u2013 it to his wife. They name their daughter Alma. Someone reads it to \u201cJacob Marcus\u201d who later commissions Charlotte to translate it from Spanish to English. After Isaac\u2019s memorial, Leo gets a parcel addressed to him (Leo) containing the History of Love, in English (Bird had printed it out). Leo had thought the only copy had been lost in a flood, as Rosa had told him in a letter. (hide spoiler) ] (hide spoiler) ] (hide spoiler) ] ...more \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u062f\u0648\u0646\u0645 \u0686\u0631\u0627 \u0627\u06cc\u0646\u0642\u062f\u0631 \u0646\u0648\u0634\u062a\u0646 \u0631\u0627\u062c\u0639 \u0628\u0647\u0634 \u0633\u062e\u062a\u0647. \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u062f\u0648\u0646\u0645 \u0628\u0639\u0636\u06cc \u062c\u0645\u0644\u0647 \u0647\u0627\u06cc \u0627\u06cc\u0646 \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0686\u0637\u0648\u0631 \u0645\u0646\u0648 \u0628\u0647 \u0627\u06cc\u0646 \u0627\u0646\u062f\u0627\u0632\u0647 \u062f\u0627\u062e\u0644 \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0634\u06cc\u062f \u0627\u0632 \u0627\u0633\u0645 \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u062a\u0648\u0642\u0639 \u06cc\u06a9 \u062f\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0646 \u0639\u0627\u0634\u0642\u0627\u0646\u0647 \u0631\u0648 \u062f\u0627\u0631\u06cc\u062f\u061f \u0627\u06cc\u0646 \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0631\u0627\u062c\u0639 \u0628\u0647 \u0639\u0634\u0642 \u0646\u06cc\u0633\u062a\u060c \u0631\u0627\u062c\u0639 \u0628\u0647 \u0632\u0646\u062f\u06af\u06cc\u0647 \u06a9\u0647 \u0639\u0634\u0642 \u0647\u0645 \u062c\u0632\u06cc\u06cc \u0627\u0632 \u0627\u0648\u0646\u0647 \u0644\u0626\u0648\u067e\u0627\u0631\u062f \u06cc\u06a9 \u0645\u0631\u062f \u06cc\u0647\u0648\u062f\u06cc\u0647 \u06a9\u0647 \u0628\u0627 \u062d\u0645\u0644\u0647 \u0646\u0627\u0632\u06cc \u0647\u0627 \u0641\u0631\u0627\u0631 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0646\u0647 \u0648 \u0628\u0647 \u0633\u062e\u062a\u06cc \u062e\u0648\u062f\u0634 \u0631\u0648 \u0628\u0647 \u0622\u0645\u0631\u06cc\u06a9\u0627 \u0645\u06cc \u0631\u0633\u0648\u0646\u0647 \u0648 \u062f\u0631 \u0627\u06cc\u0646 \u0641\u0631\u0627\u0631 \u0647\u0645\u0647 \u0686\u06cc\u0632\u0634 \u0631\u0648 \u0627\u0632 \u062f\u0633\u062a \u0645\u06cc\u062f\u0647. \u062d\u062a\u06cc \u0639\u0634\u0642 \u0632\u0646\u062f\u06af\u06cc\u0634 \u0631\u0648. \u062d\u0627\u0644\u0627 \u0644\u0626\u0648\u067e\u0627\u0631\u062f \u06cc\u06a9 \u067e\u06cc\u0631\u0645\u0631\u062f\u0647 \u06a9\u0647 \u0627\u0632 \u0645\u0631\u06af \u062f\u0631 \u062a\u0646\u0647\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u0645\u06cc \u062a\u0631\u0633\u0647 \u0622\u0644\u0645\u0627 \u062f\u062e\u062a\u0631\u06cc 15 \u0633\u0627\u0644\u0647 \u0633 \u06a9\u0647 \u0627\u0633\u0645\u0634 \u0627\u0632 \u0631\u0648\u06cc \u0634\u062e\u0635\u06cc\u062a \u0627\u0635\u0644\u06cc \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0645\u0648\u0631\u062f \u0639\u0644\u0627\u0642\u0647 \u067e\u062f\u0631 \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0634 \u06cc\u0639\u0646\u06cc \" \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u062f\u0648\u0646\u0645 \u0686\u0631\u0627 \u0627\u06cc\u0646\u0642\u062f\u0631 \u0646\u0648\u0634\u062a\u0646 \u0631\u0627\u062c\u0639 \u0628\u0647\u0634 \u0633\u062e\u062a\u0647. \u0646\u0645\u06cc \u062f\u0648\u0646\u0645 \u0628\u0639\u0636\u06cc \u062c\u0645\u0644\u0647 \u0647\u0627\u06cc \u0627\u06cc\u0646 \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0686\u0637\u0648\u0631 \u0645\u0646\u0648 \u0628\u0647 \u0627\u06cc\u0646 \u0627\u0646\u062f\u0627\u0632\u0647 \u062f\u0627\u062e\u0644 \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0634\u06cc\u062f \u0627\u0632 \u0627\u0633\u0645 \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u062a\u0648\u0642\u0639 \u06cc\u06a9 \u062f\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0646 \u0639\u0627\u0634\u0642\u0627\u0646\u0647 \u0631\u0648 \u062f\u0627\u0631\u06cc\u062f\u061f \u0627\u06cc\u0646 \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0631\u0627\u062c\u0639 \u0628\u0647 \u0639\u0634\u0642 \u0646\u06cc\u0633\u062a\u060c \u0631\u0627\u062c\u0639 \u0628\u0647 \u0632\u0646\u062f\u06af\u06cc\u0647 \u06a9\u0647 \u0639\u0634\u0642 \u0647\u0645 \u062c\u0632\u06cc\u06cc \u0627\u0632 \u0627\u0648\u0646\u0647 \u0644\u0626\u0648\u067e\u0627\u0631\u062f \u06cc\u06a9 \u0645\u0631\u062f \u06cc\u0647\u0648\u062f\u06cc\u0647 \u06a9\u0647 \u0628\u0627 \u062d\u0645\u0644\u0647 \u0646\u0627\u0632\u06cc \u0647\u0627 \u0641\u0631\u0627\u0631 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0646\u0647 \u0648 \u0628\u0647 \u0633\u062e\u062a\u06cc \u062e\u0648\u062f\u0634 \u0631\u0648 \u0628\u0647 \u0622\u0645\u0631\u06cc\u06a9\u0627 \u0645\u06cc \u0631\u0633\u0648\u0646\u0647 \u0648 \u062f\u0631 \u0627\u06cc\u0646 \u0641\u0631\u0627\u0631 \u0647\u0645\u0647 \u0686\u06cc\u0632\u0634 \u0631\u0648 \u0627\u0632 \u062f\u0633\u062a \u0645\u06cc\u062f\u0647. \u062d\u062a\u06cc \u0639\u0634\u0642 \u0632\u0646\u062f\u06af\u06cc\u0634 \u0631\u0648. \u062d\u0627\u0644\u0627 \u0644\u0626\u0648\u067e\u0627\u0631\u062f \u06cc\u06a9 \u067e\u06cc\u0631\u0645\u0631\u062f\u0647 \u06a9\u0647 \u0627\u0632 \u0645\u0631\u06af \u062f\u0631 \u062a\u0646\u0647\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u0645\u06cc \u062a\u0631\u0633\u0647 \u0622\u0644\u0645\u0627 \u062f\u062e\u062a\u0631\u06cc 15 \u0633\u0627\u0644\u0647 \u0633 \u06a9\u0647 \u0627\u0633\u0645\u0634 \u0627\u0632 \u0631\u0648\u06cc \u0634\u062e\u0635\u06cc\u062a \u0627\u0635\u0644\u06cc \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0645\u0648\u0631\u062f \u0639\u0644\u0627\u0642\u0647 \u067e\u062f\u0631 \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0634 \u06cc\u0639\u0646\u06cc \"\u062a\u0627\u0631\u06cc\u062e \u0639\u0634\u0642\" \u06af\u0630\u0627\u0634\u062a\u0647 \u0634\u062f\u0647. \u0622\u0644\u0645\u0627 \u062f\u0631 \u062d\u0627\u0644 \u06a9\u0646\u0627\u0631 \u0627\u0648\u0645\u062f\u0646 \u0628\u0627 \u0645\u0631\u06af \u067e\u062f\u0631\u0634\u0647 \u0648 \u067e\u06cc\u062f\u0627 \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u0646 \u0631\u0627\u0647\u06cc \u0628\u0631\u0627\u06cc \u062e\u0648\u0634\u062d\u0627\u0644 \u06a9\u0631\u062f\u0646 \u0645\u0627\u062f\u0631\u0634 \u0627\u06cc\u0646 \u062f\u0648 \u062f\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0646 \u062f\u0631 \u0645\u0648\u0627\u0632\u0627\u062a \u0647\u0645 \u062d\u0631\u06a9\u062a \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0646\u0646\u062f. \u0648\u0644\u06cc \u06a9\u062c\u0627 \u0642\u0631\u0627\u0631\u0647 \u0628\u0647 \u0647\u0645 \u0628\u0631\u0633\u0646\u062f\u061f \u062d\u062f\u0633 \u0632\u062f\u0646\u0634 \u0633\u062e\u062a\u0647 \u0686\u0648\u0646 \u062f\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0646 \u067e\u06cc\u0686\u06cc\u062f\u0633\u062a \u062f\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0646 \u0647\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u06a9\u0647 \u0627\u0632 \u0686\u0646\u062f\u06cc\u0646 \u062f\u06cc\u062f \u0631\u0648\u0627\u06cc\u062a \u0645\u06cc \u0634\u0646 \u0627\u06cc\u0646 \u0631\u06cc\u0633\u06a9 \u0631\u0648 \u062f\u0627\u0631\u0646\u062f \u06a9\u0647 \u0628\u0627 \u0628\u0639\u0636\u06cc \u0634\u062e\u0635\u06cc\u062a \u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0631\u062a\u0628\u0627\u0637 \u0628\u0631\u0642\u0631\u0627\u0631 \u0646\u0634\u0647. \u0645\u0646 \u0639\u0627\u0634\u0642 \u0644\u0626\u0648\u067e\u0627\u0631\u062f \u0628\u0648\u062f\u0645 \u0648 \u0645\u0646\u062a\u0638\u0631 \u062a\u06a9\u0647 \u0647\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u06a9\u0647 \u0631\u0627\u0648\u06cc \u0645\u06cc \u0634\u062f. \u0639\u0627\u0634\u0642 \u062f\u06cc\u062f \u0639\u062c\u06cc\u0628\u0634 \u0628\u0647 \u062f\u0646\u06cc\u0627\u060c \u063a\u0645 \u0639\u0645\u06cc\u0642\u0634. \u0648\u0644\u06cc \u0631\u0627\u062c\u0639 \u0628\u0647 \u0622\u0644\u0645\u0627 \u0627\u06cc\u0646\u0637\u0648\u0631 \u0646\u0628\u0648\u062f \u0641\u0631\u0647\u0646\u06af \u06cc\u0647\u0648\u062f\u06cc \u062f\u0631 \u0627\u06cc\u0646 \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0645\u0648\u062c \u0645\u06cc \u0632\u0646\u0647 \u0648 \u0628\u0631\u0627\u06cc \u0645\u0646 \u062c\u0627\u0644\u0628 \u0648 \u062e\u0648\u0627\u0646\u062f\u0646\u06cc \u0628\u0648\u062f \u0648\u0644\u06cc \u062a\u06a9\u0647 \u0647\u0627\u06cc \u06a9\u0648\u0686\u06a9\u06cc \u06a9\u0647 \u062f\u0631 \u0631\u0627\u0628\u0637\u0647 \u0628\u0627 \u0627\u0633\u0631\u0627\u0626\u06cc\u0644 \u0628\u0648\u062f \u0648 \u0633\u062e\u062a\u06cc \u0647\u0627\u06cc\u06cc (!) \u06a9\u0647 \u0628\u0631\u0627\u06cc \u0633\u0627\u06a9\u0646 \u0634\u062f\u0646 \u062f\u0631 \u0627\u0648\u0646\u062c\u0627 \u06a9\u0634\u06cc\u062f\u0646\u060c \u0633\u062e\u062a \u0628\u0648\u062f \u06a9\u0647 \u0628\u0627 \u0639\u0644\u0627\u0642\u0647 \u0628\u062e\u0648\u0646\u0645 \u0628\u0647 \u062e\u0627\u0637\u0631 \u062c\u0645\u0644\u0647 \u0647\u0627\u06cc \u0641\u0648\u0642 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u062f\u0647 \u0634 \u0645\u06cc \u062f\u0648\u0646\u0645 \u06a9\u0647 \u062d\u062f\u0627\u0642\u0644 \u062a\u06a9\u0647 \u0627\u0648\u0644 \u0627\u06cc\u0646 \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0631\u0648 \u062f\u0648\u0628\u0627\u0631\u0647 \u0645\u06cc \u062e\u0648\u0646\u0645. \u0628\u0647 \u062e\u0627\u0637\u0631 \u0644\u0626\u0648\u067e\u0627\u0631\u062f. \u0628\u0647 \u062e\u0627\u0637\u0631 \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628\u06cc \u06a9\u0647 \u062f\u0631 \u0628\u06cc\u0646 \u0635\u0641\u062d\u0627\u062a \u0627\u06cc\u0646 \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u0645\u062e\u0641\u06cc \u0634\u062f\u0647 \u0648 \u0627\u0632 \u062a\u0627\u0631\u06cc\u062e \u0639\u0634\u0642 \u0645\u06cc \u06af\u0647\u060c \u0648\u0644\u06cc \u0646\u0647 \u0627\u0648\u0646\u0637\u0648\u0631 \u06a9\u0647 \u0647\u0645\u0647 \u0641\u06a9\u0631 \u0645\u06cc \u06a9\u0646\u0646\u062f. \u0641\u0642\u0637 \u0628\u0627\u06cc\u062f \u0627\u06cc\u0646 \u062c\u0645\u0644\u0647 \u0647\u0627\u0631\u0648 \u0628\u062e\u0648\u0646\u06cc\u062f \u062a\u0627 \u0628\u0641\u0647\u0645\u06cc\u062f \u0686\u06cc \u0645\u06cc \u06af\u0645 \u062d\u062a\u06cc \u0647\u0646\u0648\u0632 \u0647\u0645 \u062a\u0645\u0627\u0645 \u0627\u062d\u0633\u0627\u0633\u0627\u062a \u0645\u0645\u06a9\u0646 \u0648\u062c\u0648\u062f \u0646\u062f\u0627\u0631\u0646\u062f. \u0647\u0646\u0648\u0632 \u062d\u0633 \u0647\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u0647\u0633\u062a\u0646\u062f \u06a9\u0647 \u0641\u0631\u0627\u062a\u0631 \u0627\u0632 \u0638\u0631\u0641\u06cc\u062a \u0648 \u062a\u062e\u06cc\u0644 \u0645\u0627 \u0647\u0633\u062a\u0646\u062f. \u06af\u0627\u0647\u06cc \u0627\u0648\u0642\u0627\u062a\u060c \u0648\u0642\u062a\u06cc \u0642\u0637\u0639\u0647 \u0645\u0648\u0633\u06cc\u0642\u06cc \u0627\u06cc \u06a9\u0647 \u06a9\u0633 \u062f\u06cc\u06af\u0631\u06cc \u0646\u0646\u0648\u0634\u062a\u0647\u060c \u06cc\u0627 \u0646\u0642\u0627\u0634\u06cc \u0627\u06cc \u06a9\u0647 \u06a9\u0633 \u062f\u06cc\u06af\u0631\u06cc \u0646\u06a9\u0634\u06cc\u062f\u0647 \u06cc\u0627 \u0686\u06cc\u0632 \u062f\u06cc\u06af\u0631\u06cc \u06a9\u0647 \u067e\u06cc\u0634\u200c\u0628\u06cc\u0646\u06cc\u060c \u062a\u0635\u0648\u0631 \u0648 \u06cc\u0627 \u062a\u0648\u0636\u06cc\u062d \u0622\u0646 \u063a\u06cc\u0631\u0645\u0645\u06a9\u0646 \u0627\u0633\u062a \u0627\u06cc\u062c\u0627\u062f \u0645\u06cc \u0634\u0648\u062f\u060c \u062d\u0633 \u062c\u062f\u06cc\u062f\u06cc \u0648\u0627\u0631\u062f \u062f\u0646\u06cc\u0627 \u0645\u06cc \u0634\u0648\u062f ...more This beautiful story is about an eighty year old Jewish-Polish immigrant and retired locksmith, Leo Gursky; a fourteen year old girl, Alma Singer, who is trying to find a way to make her mother not sad anymore; and Zvi Litvinoff, the author of an obscure book called The History of Love . What they each have to do with one another isn't at first apparent, but becomes all too clear and inseparable as you read on. It is a love story, a story of survival and ageing, of memory and imagination, of sadne This beautiful story is about an eighty year old Jewish-Polish immigrant and retired locksmith, Leo Gursky; a fourteen year old girl, Alma Singer, who is trying to find a way to make her mother not sad anymore; and Zvi Litvinoff, the author of an obscure book called The History of Love . What they each have to do with one another isn't at first apparent, but becomes all too clear and inseparable as you read on. It is a love story, a story of survival and ageing, of memory and imagination, of sadness and loss. It is a puzzle, a mystery, a comedy, a tragedy. It's quite simply wonderful. Leo arrived in America when he was 25, fleeing the Nazis and following the woman he loved, Alma. But he is too late. We get his story in first person, in a distinct style, honest and hopeful. Alma's father died when she was little and she occupies herself with trying to find a new man for her mother, while her younger brother, Bird, becomes convinced he's a Jewish messiah. She tells her side of the story in short brief chapters, notebook or journal style. Later, Bird also gets his own voice. The third narrator is a third-person omniscient voice that retells the life of Zvi, but in such a way that the truth isn't clear at first. It's a great deal of fun putting it all together and realising the truth, though we're cleverly handled by Krauss who reveals things only when she wants to. It is not told in a chronological way, though it seems so at first - in fact, Zvi is dead, Alma's story begins before Leo starts his, even though his comes first. It's clever and extremely well managed, especially considering how hard it must be to give voice to a character without them spoiling all the surprises. There's a great deal of humour in this book, which makes the poignant sadness and tragedy all the more bittersweet. The writing is beautiful and original. I remembered a few pages in particular - these are from Leo: As soon as the acne cleared my hairline began to recede, as if it wanted to disassociate itself from the embarrassment of my face. (p14) I meant to pat his arm but he moved to brush something from his eye, the result being that I ended up patting his man-breast. Not knowing what else to do, I gave it a squeeze. (p88) I considered myself a spy infiltrating an alien world: the domain of the female. With the excuse of gathering evidence, I stole Mrs Stanislawski's enormous panties off the clothesline. Alone in the outhouse, I sniffed them with abandon. I buried my face in the crotch. I put them on my head. I raised them and let them balloon in the breeze like the flag of a new nation. When my mother pushed open the door, I was trying them on for size. They could have fit three of me. (p127) And Alma: \"You're not Dr. Eldridge are you?\" I asked. \"I am,\" he said. My heart sank. Thirty years must have passed since the photograph on the book was taken. I didn't have to think for very long to know that he couldn't help me with the thing I had come about, because even if he deserved a Nobel for being the greatest living paleontologist, he also deserved one for being the oldest. I didn't know what to say. \"I read your book,\" I managed, \"and I'm thinking of becoming a paleontologist.\" He said: \"Well don't sound so disappointed.\" (p54) There are lots more quotes I could share but it would take me forever to find them. The History of Love tells an old story in a new and original way, giving a fresh voice to characters that feel familiar, and a breath of life into the classic tale of immigrants fleeing World War II and trying to put their lives back together, but failing. I came to really care for Leo, and Alma and her family, and feel a surge of anger at the injustice, and also a sense of calm at the inevitability of it all. It's going to take me a while to really understand the effect of this book, but even knowing the truth, I'd re-read it and discover more. I can't remember the last book I read that seemed this real , this alive, this wise and honest and truthful, with its blur of place and time so that you forget where you are and even, at times, when. Identity also loses its normally distinct shape, as walls disappear, distances shrink, and a search for the mysterious Alma of The History of Love brings the characters together. The past merges with the present in Krauss's brilliant book, laughter mingles with tears, and wisdom with foolishness. A superb book. ...more Nicole Krauss (n. 1974) 6 Estrelas Amorosas \u201da hist\u00f3ria do amor\u201d (2005) \u00e9 o segundo romance da escritora norte-americana Nicole Krauss (n. 1974), ex-mulher do famoso escritor Jonathan Safran Foer (n. 1977), com quem foi casada desde 2004 e de quem se separou em 2014, com dois filhos em comum. \u201da hist\u00f3ria do amor\u201d \u00e9 um romance com tr\u00eas narradores: Leo Gursky, Alma Singer e Zvi Litvinoff, uma narrativa complexa e misteriosa, uma \u201chist\u00f3ria\u201d sobre a dor e a perda do amor e sobre um manuscrito \u201cperdido Nicole Krauss (n. 1974) 6 Estrelas Amorosas \u201da hist\u00f3ria do amor\u201d (2005) \u00e9 o segundo romance da escritora norte-americana Nicole Krauss (n. 1974), ex-mulher do famoso escritor Jonathan Safran Foer (n. 1977), com quem foi casada desde 2004 e de quem se separou em 2014, com dois filhos em comum. \u201da hist\u00f3ria do amor\u201d \u00e9 um romance com tr\u00eas narradores: Leo Gursky, Alma Singer e Zvi Litvinoff, uma narrativa complexa e misteriosa, uma \u201chist\u00f3ria\u201d sobre a dor e a perda do amor e sobre um manuscrito \u201cperdido\u201d, \u201cum-livro-dentro-de-um livro\u201d , cap\u00edtulos que descrevem viagens \"imagin\u00e1rias\", por caminhos labir\u00ednticos, onde as emo\u00e7\u00f5es dominam, ora tr\u00e1gicas ora divertidas, entre o que \u00e9 \"vis\u00edvel\" e o que se torna \"invis\u00edvel\". NOTA : Quem tencionar ler \u201da hist\u00f3ria do amor\u201d n\u00e3o deve \u2013 mesmo \u2013 \u201cabrir\u201d o \u201cspoiler\u201d. (view spoiler) [No in\u00edcio de \u201da hist\u00f3ria do amor\u201d Leo Gursky \u00e9 um judeu idoso, que vive sozinho num min\u00fasculo apartamento em Manhattan, Nova Iorque, que fugiu da cidade de Slonim, ora na Pol\u00f3nia ora na R\u00fassia, para a Am\u00e9rica, depois do fim da Segunda Guerra Mundial, sobrevivendo \u00e0 barb\u00e1rie mantendo-se escondido, sendo acolhido por um primo que era serralheiro e que lhe ensinou o of\u00edcio, At\u00e9 que um dia estava a olhar pela janela\u2026 e de repente foi como se um elefante me tivesse pisado o cora\u00e7\u00e3o. Ca\u00ed de joelhos. Pensei: n\u00e3o vivi para sempre\u2026 Levei bastante tempo a recuperar e nunca mais voltei a trabalhar.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 12) Leo Gursky \u201cQuando era mi\u00fado queria escrever. Era a \u00fanica coisa que queria fazer da minha vida. Inventei pessoas imagin\u00e1rias e enchi cadernos e cadernos com as suas hist\u00f3rias.\u201d\u2026 \u201cE no entanto. J\u00e1 mais velho, decidi que queria ser um escritor a s\u00e9rio. Tentei escrever sobre coisas reais. Queria descrever o mundo, porque viver num mundo por descrever era uma solid\u00e3o tremenda. Escrevi tr\u00eas livros antes de fazer vinte e um anos, sabe Deus o que lhes aconteceu.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 15) \u201dPor vezes acreditava que a \u00faltima p\u00e1gina do meu livro e a \u00faltima p\u00e1gina da minha vida eram uma e a mesma coisa, que quando o meu livro acabasse, tamb\u00e9m eu acabaria\u2026\u201d (P\u00e1g. 17) \u201dEra uma vez um rapaz que amava uma rapariga, e o riso dela era uma pergunta que ele queria passar a vida inteira a responder.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 20) \u201dEra uma vez um homem que se tornara invis\u00edvel que chegou \u00e0 Am\u00e9rica.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 21) \u201dEra uma vez uma mulher que tinha sido uma rapariga e tinha vindo de barco para a Am\u00e9rica\u2026 (P\u00e1g. 22) Leo Gursky amou Alma Mereminski, que fizera a viagem para a Am\u00e9rica alguns anos antes, mas Deixaste de escrever. Julguei que tinhas morrido E se o homem que outrora fora rapaz que prometera nunca mais se apaixonar por ningu\u00e9m at\u00e9 morrer foi fiel \u00e0 sua promessa, n\u00e3o foi por teimosia nem mesmo por lealdade. Era mais forte do que ele. (P\u00e1g. 23) E depois h\u00e1 Isaac Moritz, filho de Alma Mereminski, mais tarde Alma Moritz, que cresce e se torna num escritor famoso. O segundo narrador \u00e9 Alma Singer, uma menina de catorze anos de idade que vive em Brooklyn, Nova Iorque, baptizada pela sua m\u00e3e \u201c\u2026 em honra de todas as personagens femininas de um livro que o meu pai lhe oferecera chamado A Hist\u00f3ria do Amor.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 50), que tem um irm\u00e3o mais novo, Emanuel Chaim, mas toda a gente o chamava \u201cBird\u201d - o \"Messias\". O seu pai David Singer conhecera a sua m\u00e3e, Charlotte, num kibutz em Israel, tinha estado no ex\u00e9rcito e viajara pela Am\u00e9rica do Sul, tornando-se mais tarde engenheiro. 10. MUDARAM-SE PARA NOVA IORQUE E TIVERAM-ME A MIM . Quando Alma 11. \u2026 TINHA SEIS ANOS FOI DIAGNOSTICADO UM CANCRO DO P\u00c2NCREAS AO MEU PAI . 18. A MINHA M\u00c3E NUNCA SE DEPAIXONOU DO MEU PAI . Inesperadamente, Charlotte Singer, que \u00e9 tradutora, recebe uma carta de Jacob Marcus para traduzir um livro, a \u00fanica obra publicada de Zvi Litvinoff, traduzindo-a do espanhol para ingl\u00eas. Por fim surge, Zvi Litvinoff, \u201dQuase tudo o que se sabe acerca de Zvi Litvinoff prov\u00e9m da introdu\u00e7\u00e3o que a sua mulher escreveu para uma reedi\u00e7\u00e3o d\u00b4 a hist\u00f3ria do amor alguns anos depois de ele morrer. O tom da sua prosa, sens\u00edvel e obscura, \u00e9 colorido pela devo\u00e7\u00e3o de uma pessoa que dedicou a sua vida \u00e0 arte de outrem.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 87) Zvi Litvinoff viveu no Chile depois de ter emigrado da Pol\u00f3nia ap\u00f3s a Segunda Guerra Mundial, conhecendo a sua mulher Rosa em Valpara\u00edso, no Outono de 1951, at\u00e9 \u00e0 sua morte em 1978. O livro a hist\u00f3ria do amor foi originalmente escrito em yiddish \u00e9 traduzido para espanhol pela sua mulher Rosa. Foram publicados dois mil exemplares \u201d\u2026 d\u00b4 A Hist\u00f3ria do Amor como um bando de dois mil pombos capazes de bater asas e voltar para contar quantas l\u00e1grimas derramadas, quantas gargalhadas, quantas passagens lidas em voz alta, quantos exemplares cruelmente abandonados ao fim da primeira p\u00e1gina, quantos exemplares que nunca chegaram sequer a ser abertos.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 94) At\u00e9 que a dona de uma livraria de livros em segunda m\u00e3o descobre um \u201d\u2026 exemplar bolorento d\u00b4 a hist\u00f3ria do amor \u2026 A dona da loja n\u00e3o tentou impingir o livro a nenhum dos seus clientes. Sabia que nas m\u00e3os erradas um tal livro poderia ser facilmente descartado ou, pior ainda, ficar por ler. Em vez disso, deixou-o ficar onde estava, na esperan\u00e7a de que viesse a ser descoberto pelo leitor certo. E foi o que aconteceu. Uma bela tarde um jovem alto viu o livro na montra. Entrou na loja, pegou nele, leu algumas p\u00e1ginas e levou-o at\u00e9 \u00e0 caixa registadora.... assinou o seu nome: David Singer. Come\u00e7ou ent\u00e3o a ler, eivado de desejo e inquietude.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 99 \u2013 100) \"Flowchart\" by JoV (hide spoiler) ] \u201da hist\u00f3ria do amor\" \u00e9 um romance inovador que explora magistralmente v\u00e1rias tem\u00e1ticas: o amor e a perda, a solid\u00e3o e a morte, a tristeza e a fam\u00edlia, a religi\u00e3o e o juda\u00edsmo, \u201cum-livro-dentro-de-um livro\u201d , com uma prosa extremamente vers\u00e1til, discorrendo sobre a literatura, em especial, sobre escritores como Isaac Babel , Franz Kafka , Jorge Luis Borges , Antoine de Saint Exup\u00e9ry , Leo Tolstoy , Rub\u00e9n Dar\u00edo e Pablo Neruda e Bruno Schulz , com um excelente suspense, onde v\u00e1rias \u201chist\u00f3rias\u201d se v\u00e3o entrela\u00e7ando, com avan\u00e7os e recuos no espa\u00e7o e no tempo, conjugando admiravelmente os v\u00e1rios estilos narrativos, distintos para cada um dos narradores, incluindo, entradas de di\u00e1rios, cartas, listas, tradu\u00e7\u00f5es, trechos d\u00b4 \u201da hist\u00f3ria do amor\u201d . Nicole Krauss conduz-nos por caminhos misteriosos, abrindo-nos as portas do passado, libertando-nos da solitude e do des\u00e2nimo e no final Leo e Alma acabam por unir de uma forma surpreendente as \u201cpalavras\u201d\u2026 \"H\u00e1 tantas palavras que se perdem. Mal saem da boca perdem a coragem, errando sem objectivo at\u00e9 serem engolidas pela valeta como folhas secas. ... Houve um tempo em que n\u00e3o era invulgar usar-se um bocado de fio para orientar as palavras que de outro modo poderiam perder-se pelo caminho e n\u00e3o chegar aos seus destinos. ... \u00c0s vezes n\u00e3o h\u00e1 fio nenhum que seja suficiente comprido para dizer aquilo que \u00e9 preciso dizer. Em tais casos a \u00fanica coisa que o fio pode fazer, qualquer que seja a sua forma, \u00e9 conduzir o sil\u00eancio de uma pessoa.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 146 \u2013 147) N\u00e3o \u00e9 por acaso que Nicole Krauss recebeu 4 milh\u00f5es de d\u00f3lares pelos dois seus pr\u00f3ximos livros a publicar pela \u201cHarper\u201d \u2013 \u201cLate Wonder\u201d e \u201dHow to Be a Man\u201d - contos. Inesquec\u00edvel\u2026 \"Era uma vez um rapaz que amava uma rapariga, e o riso dela era uma pergunta que ele queria passar a vida inteira a responder.\" (P\u00e1g. 20) \"Os sentimentos n\u00e3o s\u00e3o t\u00e3o antigos como o tempo.\" (P\u00e1g. 141) \"H\u00e1 tantas palavras que se perdem. Mal saem da boca perdem a coragem, errando sem objectivo at\u00e9 serem engolidas pela valeta como folhas secas.\" (P\u00e1g. 146) \"... h\u00e1 dois tipos de pessoas no mundo: aqueles que preferem estar tristes com os outros e aqueles que preferem estar tristes sozinhos.\" (P\u00e1g. 201) [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more", "Title": "The History of Love"},
