{"Comments": "How this book won the Pulitzer Prize AND the National Book Critics Circle is beyond me.<---F> It's terrible</---F>. Here's the review I wrote when it came out. I stand by this completely. If someone says they read this and liked it, punch them in the throat. (<---B>I'm kidding, naturally.</---B>) Review of Junot Diaz\u2019s first novel, \u201c<+++>The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao</+++>,\u201d published Oct. 7,<---M> 2007 Imagine</---M>, if you will, that seven years after publishing \"The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber,\" Ernest Hemingway decided to ex How this book won the Pulitzer Prize AND the National Book Critics Circle is beyond me. It's terrible. Here's the review I wrote when it came out. I stand by this completely. If someone says they read this and liked it, punch them in the throat. (I'm kidding, naturally.) Review of Junot Diaz\u2019s first novel, \u201c<+++>The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao</+++>,\u201d published Oct. 7, 2007 Imagine, if you will, that seven years after publishing \"The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber,\" Ernest Hemingway decided to expand his well-known short story into a 350-page novel. Imagine if, before Macomber is \"accidentally\" shot by his wife on that safari, Hemingway decided to pad the narrative with a couple hundred pages about Macomber's mother, sister, and grandfather -- tangents that only serve to betray the proper focus of the story, its title, and the reader's trust. That, in short, is what Junot Diaz has done with \"The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao\" (Riverhead Books, $24.95) -- a short story he wrote for the New Yorker in 2000, and which, in novel form, devotes more pages to the title character's extended family (and it's so-called curse or fuku) than it does to the fat, girl-challenged nerdy writer who loves \u201c The Lord of the Rings \" trilogy and aspires to be the Dominican Tolkien. Diaz, now 38, burst on the literary scene in 1996 with his well-received collection of short stories, \"Drown,\" which critics and readers both loved. I've been meaning to read it for some time, and when I learned he was coming out with a novel, I figured the timing was perfect: I'd sample his lone collection of short stories, get a flavor for his style, and then progress to the novel. Unfortunately, the library's sole copy has been checked out for weeks, so I didn't get to read \"Drown\" before experiencing \"The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao,\" which happens to be one of the most erratic, ill-conceived and annoying books I've ever encountered. The book begins with short-lived promise. We meet dorky Oscar as a high school sophomore living in Paterson, N.J., with his mother, Belicia; his sister, Lola; and his heroin-addicted uncle, who plays a minor, insignificant role. The mother had been born in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, but immigrated to the United States in the early 1960s. The kids' father, whom she met on the plane to the states, took off a long time ago, and the story of his flight from domesticity is about the only case of love-gone-bad that isn't described in excruciating detail in this book. Crazy love is the family's curse or fuku, which is the superstitious element of magical realism that threads through the novel. \"No matter what its name or provenance, it is believed that the arrival of Europeans on Hispaniola unleashed the fuku on the world, and we've all been in the (bleep) ever since,\" says the sometime narrator, Yunior, the onetime boyfriend of Oscar's sister, whose name and identity won't be revealed until halfway through the book, and for no other reason than Diaz wants to torture his readers. (That's the only reason I could glean, anyway.) So, Oscar's personal fuku is that he loves girls, but they don't love him. And basically, they don't love him because he doesn't look like Enrique Iglesias. To hear Diaz tell it, Oscar's the only Dominican who doesn't. \"Had none of the Higher Powers of your typical Dominican male, couldn't have pulled a girl if his life depended on it. Couldn't play sports for (bleep), dominoes, was beyond uncoordinated, threw a ball like a girl. Had no knack for music or business or dance, no hustle, no rap, no G. And most damning of all: no looks. He wore his semi-kink hair in a Puerto Rican afro, rocked enormous Section 8 glasses\u2026sported an unappealing trace of mustache on his upper lip and possessed a pair of close-set eyes that made him look somewhat retarded.\" Yunior goes on, \"Perhaps if he'd been like me he'd been able to hide his otakuness maybe (bleep) would have been easier for him, but he couldn't. Dude wore his nerdiness like a Jedi wore his light saber or a Lensman her lens. Couldn't have passed for Normal if he'd wanted to.\" At this point, we don't who the narrator is or what his relationship to Oscar might be. Truthfully, wanting to know does help drag the reader through the novel. But learning the identity isn't ultimately rewarding; it's annoying. Early on, the forward momentum of the novel stalls and the narrative flashes back in time and focuses on Lola, the sister, and how she ran away from home in the 1990s; and then to the mother, Belicia, and how she was a star-crossed lover herself in the Dominican Republic. The mother's section of the book lasts 90 pages and covers the years 1955-1962. A wise reader would have quit the 335-page book at this point, because \"The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao\" had morphed into \"The Bloated Family Background of Oscar Wao.\" But I read on, waiting for it to get better. Unfortunately, it never did, and the reasons seem clear. Not only is the narrative timeline all over the place, but important information -- be it dialogue or exposition -- is often relayed in Spanish. Now, I took two semesters of the language in college and yet I had no idea what characters were saying in many parts, because context didn't lend hints. If Diaz is aiming this book towards a bilingual audience, then so be it. But how difficult would it have been to translate the Spanish in footnotes? The book is already rife with footnotes anyway, which mainly serve to explain the history of the brutal dictatorship of Trujillo in the Dominican Republic. Throw a gringo a bone. In describing how Belicia, Oscar's mother, had developed a brash attitude as a teenager (while living in the Dominican Republic with her adoptive mother, La Inca), Diaz writes, \"Those of you who have stood at the corner of 142nd and Broadway can guess what it was she spoke: the blunt, irreverent cant of the pueblo that gives all dominicanos cultos nightmares on their 400-thread-count sheets and that La Inca had assumed perished along with Beli's first life in Outer Azua, but here it was so alive, it was like it had never left: Oye, pariguayo, y que paso con esa esposa tuya? Gordo, no me digas que tu todavia tienes hambre.\" Uh, no comprende, amigo? A lack of Spanish skills won't be the only thing that keeps you from enjoying this book. Beyond its organizational problems, the literary devices in play -- the magical realism, the comic book references, and the fat, supposedly lovable title character -- make the book feel derivative of Jorge Luis Borges, Michael Chabon (\"The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay\"), and \"A Confederacy of Dunces.\" Towards the end of the novel, Yunior, the narrator, is describing Oscar's last great love, a semi-retired prostitute named Ybon. He says, \"I know I've thrown a lot of fantasy and sci-fi in the mix but this is supposed to be a true account of the Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao. Can't we believe that an Ybon can exist and that a brother like Oscar might be due a little luck after twenty-three years? \"This is your chance. If blue pill, continue. If red pill, return to the Matrix.\" Too bad that offer came so late - on page 285. Do yourself a favor and take the red pill now. Return to the Matrix and don't read this book. ...more I want to know all about your family, your childhood, your grandparents, their childhood, etc, etc, I want to know where you lived, what food you ate, what games you played or didn't play. I want to know why this is important to you or that is not. Which is why I LOVED this book! Junot Diaz takes 300+ pages to tell a story about a boy that wants to be kissed and the kiss MATTERS because we know his family, we know his friends, we know their superstitions and their pains, and their loses and thei I want to know all about your family, your childhood, your grandparents, their childhood, etc, etc, I want to know where you lived, what food you ate, what games you played or didn't play. I want to know why this is important to you or that is not. Which is why I LOVED this book! Junot Diaz takes 300+ pages to tell a story about a boy that wants to be kissed and the kiss MATTERS because we know his family, we know his friends, we know their superstitions and their pains, and their loses and their survivals and by the time we get to page 339 we know why the kiss is so important. Oscar goes on the short list of book characters that will stay with me forever. ...more Exhilarating. Brutal yet beautiful. Wao. I really enjoyed both the style and the story of this whirlwind of a novel by <---A>Junot D\u00edaz</---A>. I can see why he got a Pulitzer and wonder if he other books are as fun to read. I think that Seven Killings was even more masterful, but Oscar delivers nearly as much gore and Caribbean corruption and historical facts as well. I especially enjoyed the footnotes. Writing any more about this book would certainly break my no spoilers rules so suffice it to say that thi Exhilarating. Brutal yet beautiful. Wao. I really enjoyed both the style and the story of this whirlwind of a novel by Junot D\u00edaz. I can see why he got a Pulitzer and wonder if he other books are as fun to read. I think that Seven Killings was even more masterful, but Oscar delivers nearly as much gore and Caribbean corruption and historical facts as well. I especially enjoyed the footnotes. Writing any more about this book would certainly break my no spoilers rules so suffice it to say that this book was GREAT and I will be on the lookout for more D\u00edaz fiction! For more about Trujillo, his regime, his assassination, and the chaos that ensued (with a magnificent female protagonist Urania), don't miss Feast of the Goat by Nobel Laureate Mario Vargas Llosa - it is extraordinary! ...more Ok, I\u2019m writing a review of this book right now or I\u2019ma die trying goddamn it! 1 HOUR LATER I got nothing! I\u2019ve deleted like 20 paragraphs! 1 HOUR LATER!!! 2 bruises in my forehead, kind of dizzy, I\u2019ve cursed the gods of knowledge for being born without literary talent!! And 0 review! Oh god!!! I give up!!! This is all I got!!! This book is awesome!!! Is a nerdy dude being nerdy as hell and not getting pussy!! Even tho he desperately wants it!! he watches Akira which I think is kind of cool! he wa Ok, I\u2019m writing a review of this book right now or I\u2019ma die trying goddamn it! 1 HOUR LATER I got nothing! I\u2019ve deleted like 20 paragraphs! 1 HOUR LATER!!! 2 bruises in my forehead, kind of dizzy, I\u2019ve cursed the gods of knowledge for being born without literary talent!! And 0 review! Oh god!!! I give up!!! This is all I got!!! This book is awesome!!! Is a nerdy dude being nerdy as hell and not getting pussy!! Even tho he desperately wants it!! he watches Akira which I think is kind of cool! he watches cool tv shows that I like! Talks about books that I like, and has an unhealthy Tolkien obsession almost as big as mine! I didn\u2019t like it when he was hating on Magic The Gathering\u2026 but whatever I know how different strategy nerds get really aggressive when talking about games they don\u2019t like, he eats platano! Mucho mucho platano! And god damn it I love platanos too! With cebollitas and queso frito! He has a fuku almost as bad as mine!! I disagree with him when he compares Balaguer to one of the Ring Wraths (I think it was the witch king) I think if we are going to talk about dominican culture in LOTR terms Trujillo was Morgoth and Balaguer was Sauron\u2026( there is a part on the Silmarillion when after the fall of Morgoth \u2013yes, I used the Noldor name fuck off!- Sauron escapes and they said that he gets to be as evil as his master) oh god! I need a life so badly =( anyway this book has anime, D&D, Tolkien, Dr. Who, platanos, Dominican mother\u2019s makes one want to kill one self!, voodoo, Love, I mean all the good stuff!!!! ...more I bought Oscar Wao as a birthday gift for my mother in October based on scores of sterling reviews. She read it, gave it a mild thumbs-up (probably just being nice) and handed it off to me. Now having read it, I'm pretty mortified I thought this book would be something she might like. The critical consensus seemed to be that Junot Diaz is a good writer, and he picked a good story to tell here in his first novel. But I found this book lacking on both counts. I found the writing lazy and unexpress I bought Oscar Wao as a birthday gift for my mother in October based on scores of sterling reviews. She read it, gave it a mild thumbs-up (probably just being nice) and handed it off to me. Now having read it, I'm pretty mortified I thought this book would be something she might like. The critical consensus seemed to be that Junot Diaz is a good writer, and he picked a good story to tell here in his first novel. But I found this book lacking on both counts. I found the writing lazy and unexpressive in many places. Granted, I have no Spanish-language background, so there were some important places in the novel where I couldn't get the total meaning of the sentences, but I thought Diaz's reliance on slang & colloquialism arose more out of laziness than from the narrative voice, which was often sloppy. There are multiple narrators and they mostly talk in the same voice, with the same elements of short humor & pithy street wisdom offered. The story was just as diappointing. There were efforts made at epic storytelling here - tackling the Trujillo dictatorship of the Dominican and its spiritual ramifications on the generations of the de Leon family. But when you boil this thing down, it's just the story of a loser teenager trying to get laid. And there aren't any characters who raise the level of discussion. Besides Oscar, his mother's trying to get laid, his sister's trying to get laid, and so it seems the essence of the Dominican character is about getting laid. Maybe it's honest, but it's not saying much about their culture relevance. It was hard for me to take away any large messages from this book when it operates from such a crude fundamental point. I give it two stars only because Diaz seems to have a knack for narrative - the plot is well-constructed, even if it is slight & irrelevant - and there are a few characters who will remain in my mind. ...more Soon after I started reading this book, I also started reading Housekeeping vs. The Dirt by Nick Hornby. In it's preface, Hornby discusses why reading has fallen by the wayside as of late. A lot of people associate reading with boredom because to most, it feels like a chore to get through novels. If people would just read what they enjoyed, then they would begin again to see the pleasures of reading and thus, do more of it (he even makes a point that someone who reads only The Economist and th Soon after I started reading this book, I also started reading Housekeeping vs. The Dirt by Nick Hornby. In it's preface, Hornby discusses why reading has fallen by the wayside as of late. A lot of people associate reading with boredom because to most, it feels like a chore to get through novels. If people would just read what they enjoyed, then they would begin again to see the pleasures of reading and thus, do more of it (he even makes a point that someone who reads only The Economist and their daily paper every week may in fact be reading more words than him). There's a bit of circular logic to this, of course; how are you to know if you'll enjoy a book unless you start? Along with that, you have many circles that seem to want to claim that unless reading is difficult or a challenge, then it wasn't really worth reading at all. Which pretty much sums up all the trappings I fell into with Oscar Wao . I first became aware of it when I read an interview with Diaz on a comic book site I frequent. I recognized the book cover from work and said, \"There's a comic connection in there? I should check it out!\" I did, and the very first line is a quote from an old Fantastic Four comic. Flipping through at random I caught even more references, to the New Gods and Middle Earth and so on...it seemed rife with geeky references I'd get (seriously - how many of the \"literatti\" would know what the \"Omega Effect\" was?). I made a mental note to check it out later. Before you know it, this little book had won the Pulitzer. Wow, there must be more to it than just some sci-fi asides. So I finally found a good break to read it. It starts out interesting enough, despite a lengthy discussion about the Dominican Republic's dictators, and I can see Oscar is pretty likable. There is a LOT of Spanish and Spanish slang mixed throughout, but I can figure out most through context. The second section then shifts to Oscar's sister, Lola. She's afforded about equal time, albeit with less geeky references, and I stick through it here because she spends her time in Wildwood, and as I spent a lot of summers there growing up I wondered if I'd recognize anything (something else Hornby discusses in the above book, oddly enough - familiar locations as a reason to read a particular book). The next section is what did me in. Diaz decides to spend a LOT of time on the childhood and adolescence of Oscar and Lola's mother. From what I've gathered in other reviews, Diaz is apparently setting up some themes between all these family members, but at that point I couldn't care less. This was not what I signed up for, and the Spanish comes on even stronger here - I found myself skipping almost every other sentence. I'm sure there is some beautiful dovetailing of story lines later on, but the reading became a chore, and at that point I decided to take Nick Hornby's advice on how to proceed:\"Put it down. You'll never finish it. Start something else.\" And there's nothing wrong with that. ...more Meet Oscar de Leon, dubbed \"Oscar Wao\" by bullies who liken him to the foppish Oscar Wilde. Our Oscar is a fat, virginal Dominican-American teenager who carries a Planet of the Apes lunchbox to school, spends hours painting his Dungeons & Dragons miniatures, and who knows \"more about the Marvel Universe than Stan Lee.\" If Nerd was a country, Oscar would be its undisputed king. Oscar is the kind of kid\u2014sweaty, mumbles to himself, inevitably invades personal space, probably has bad breath\u2014we w Meet Oscar de Leon, dubbed \"Oscar Wao\" by bullies who liken him to the foppish Oscar Wilde. Our Oscar is a fat, virginal Dominican-American teenager who carries a Planet of the Apes lunchbox to school, spends hours painting his Dungeons & Dragons miniatures, and who knows \"more about the Marvel Universe than Stan Lee.\" If Nerd was a country, Oscar would be its undisputed king. Oscar is the kind of kid\u2014sweaty, mumbles to himself, inevitably invades personal space, probably has bad breath\u2014we would avoid on the subway. In Junot Diaz' debut novel, The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, however, Oscar is the flame and we are the moths. An earnestly open-hearted protagonist, he draws us to him until we incinerate in the intensity of his character. He's a pitiful-but-hopeful loser we can all relate to, even the Prom Kings and Queens among us (who might just be the loneliest kids in school). The last time I was this absorbed by a fictional weirdo was in 1989 when John Irving's Owen Meany forced me--FORCED, I SAY!\u2014to read his Prayer twice in rapid, thirsty succession. Oscar held me captive in much the same way with his sweaty, sticky fingers tightly gripping my attention. Let's return to Diaz for a moment. To use the words \"Diaz\" and \"debut novel\" in such close proximity is something of a joke. Diaz has been a middleweight figure on the literary scene for eleven years, based almost exclusively on his previous (and only) book Drown, a collection of interconnected stories which, like The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, chronicled the Dominican immigrant experience with a startling freshness. If you turn to the back flap of that 1996 book, you'll read an author bio which concludes with \"He lives in New York City and is at work on his first novel.\" That was eleven years ago. To say that Oscar Wao was much-anticipated would be an understatement. Why the long wait? Tick off the reasons on your fingers: writer's block, the paralysis of sudden fame at a young age (Diaz was in his late 20s when the accolades started flooding in), working for years on an apocalyptic novel about the destruction of New York City which was eventually trumped by the sur-reality of 9/11, not seeing anything on the blank wall which stares back at you unblinking, you name it. Little of that matters now, except as an interesting footnote of trivia, because today we hold in our hands the solid, substantial Oscar Wao. For a first novel, it's an impressive triumph. Now back to Oscar. As the novel's title implies, this is the chronicle of Oscar's brief, candle-flame life and charts his quest, but rarely conquest, of girls. You see, not only is Oscar a Tolkein-loving, Star Trek-quoting, Dungeons & Dragons-playing geek, he's a horny geek whose tongue hangs out and eyes bulge in cartoon cones every time a pretty girl walks by. The only trouble is, as his friend Yunior points out, \"Dude wore his nerdiness like a Jedi wore his light saber.\" Save for one incredibly happy encounter late in his life, Oscar's lust is unrequited, but he takes this as a matter of course because he believes his family is living under the cloud of an Old-World curse called fuku, brought to our shores, he believes, by Columbus. Despite wearing the family doom like a black, itchy sweater and meeting romantic rejection at every turn, Oscar optimistically journeys through the 1970s, \"the dawn of the Nerd Age,\" Diaz writes. It's Oscar against the world and he glumly accepts his lot in life. \"Everybody,\" he says at one point, \"misapprehends me.\" As he grows older and retreats from his peers into the world of Lovecraft, Doc Savage, Asimov, Heinlein and Edgar Rice Burroughs, Oscar begins to think his destiny is to be \"the Dominican Tolkein.\" He spends countless hours holed up in his room writing science-fiction and fantasy tales. If Diaz had allowed, Oscar probably would have spent eleven years working on his masterpiece; but, as we're always reminded, this is a brief life. Oscar tries to make the most of it, even with the fuku hanging over his head. The novel is more than just a Nerd Epic, however. Diaz pulls out all the stops in an attempt to tell a all-encompassing story of immigration and assimilation. Oscar lives with his mother and sister in the ghetto of Paterson, New Jersey, and the novel is as much their story as it is his. We're just starting to groove with sympathy for fat little Oscar when Diaz suddenly shifts gears and takes us into the world of Lola, Oscar's beautiful, athletic sister who has a stormy relationship with their mother, Belicia, a \"hardnosed no-nonsense femme-matador.\" Then, before too many more pages have elapsed, we're deep in that woman's story, in a long section of the book called \"The Three Heartbreaks of Belicia Cabral,\" where we learn what happened to her back in the Dominican Republic to make her so bitterly protective of her children. These chapters, along with the rest of the book for that matter, really are filled with heartbreak, a transmogrification of fuku that shapes the course of everything to come, from Oscar's obsession with Shazam to Lola's runaway teen saga. Diaz also proves to be something of a risk-taker. The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao bravely assumes there is an audience of readers who will sit through a long novel in which the English and Spanish languages mingle without the author once stopping to translate the unfamiliar words. The gist of what the Spanglish phrases mean is pretty easy to pick up, and for those readers who absolutely have to know what guapa or chuleria mean\u2026well, an English-Spanish dictionary is as close as the internet. Diaz also assumes his readers will come to the table with some knowledge of Dominican history, specifically the tyrannical regime of Rafael Trujillo, who ruled the Dominican Republic from 1930 to 1961 and who, if Oscar is to be believed, was master of the fuku. Trujillo who? You know, the \"portly, sadistic, pig-eyed mulato who bleached his skin, wore platform shoes, and had a fondness for Napoleon-era haberdashery.\" If your mind is as blank as mine when it comes to the island's past, never fear: Diaz replays the highlights of Santo Domingo History 101 in footnotes which annotate the novel. Yes, footnotes. The novel is peppered with them, as any well-respecting Screed of Nerd should be. Diaz knows most of us don't know squat about Dominicans and, as in Drown, he brings us briskly into the light. (Pay attention to Trujillo, though, because he plays an important role in Oscar's destiny.) Diaz never lets the pace lag and his sentences remain fresh and sharp throughout. One woman is described with \"eczema on her hands looking like a messy meal that had set\"; later, Yunior describes how it feels to be mugged: \"my guts feeling like they'd been taken out of me, beaten with mallets, and then reattached with paper clips.\" Through his wondrous use of language, Diaz brings the book alive and makes it tremble in our hands. The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao is an epic in the truest sense and in its fat, endearing hero's chest beats a Homeric heart. Oscar leads us through his unflagging quest for happiness, while Diaz tumbles us through a century of Dominican history and shows us how the brief life of one lonely boy can epitomize the immigrant experience. This novel was well worth the decade-long wait. ...more Junot Diaz\u2019s 2007 Pulitzer Prize-winning novel The Brief Wondrous Life Of Oscar Wao is an achingly beautiful, irresistibly harrowing depiction of Dominican Republic. The novel reveals the allure and the agony of a tormented nation and brilliantly exhibits a compilation of sudden revelations and insights, unrelenting paradoxes and the finest of ideas that are meant to be devoured meditatively. The twentieth century\u2019s one of the most disreputable dictators, Rafael Trujillo exercised absolute power Junot Diaz\u2019s 2007 Pulitzer Prize-winning novel The Brief Wondrous Life Of Oscar Wao is an achingly beautiful, irresistibly harrowing depiction of Dominican Republic. The novel reveals the allure and the agony of a tormented nation and brilliantly exhibits a compilation of sudden revelations and insights, unrelenting paradoxes and the finest of ideas that are meant to be devoured meditatively. The twentieth century\u2019s one of the most disreputable dictators, Rafael Trujillo exercised absolute power over Dominican Republic like a feudal lord from February, 1930 until his assassination in May, 1961. The longevity of his barbarous reign led to the pitiless slaughter of 50,000 Dominicans. The author, Junot D\u00edaz persuasively creates a brilliant parallel in the novel between supernatual events of the fantasy literature and the painful history of oppression and colonialism in the Dominican Republic. Plagued by an ancient Dominican curse, the novel chronicles the life of Oscar Wao, a contemporary immigrant on an unlikely journey beyond the narrow perspectives of those without his vision and imagination, towards the illuminating light where his want of personal love may come to an justifiable end. This family folklore tale of the search for redemption leads the reader through the darkest corners of a country under horrible dictatorial control. The novel includes a significant amount of Spanglish and neologisms, as well as references to fantasy and science fiction films and books (LOTR). Containing elements of magic realism, the author explores our perception of masculinity, power of appearance and love, opression. The novel is as well a reflection on story telling and the Dominic diaspora. The multi-generations story, epic in scope, evolves around women who pitifully reflect the image of their battered country. Junot Diaz, through his direct, explanatory style, succeeds in making the emotional reality of the immigrant family palpable to us and by conjuring their daily life, he gives the readers a precious glimpse at life before and after the dictatorship. Exuding profundity and brilliance, The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao is Junot Diaz's shattering debut novel that is devastating and triumphant in equal measures. ...more A lot of people seem to either hate or love this book. Most people get irritated with misleading title, the hard-to-follow narration/storyline, but mostly with the eclectic use of spanglish that is scattered throughout the book and with no footnote, i might add!!! In an interview, Junot Diaz said that he offered up the Spanish without translation because he wanted to give English readers an idea of the immigrant experience. The spanish in this book reflects the immigrant experience. The alienati A lot of people seem to either hate or love this book. Most people get irritated with misleading title, the hard-to-follow narration/storyline, but mostly with the eclectic use of spanglish that is scattered throughout the book and with no footnote, i might add!!! In an interview, Junot Diaz said that he offered up the Spanish without translation because he wanted to give English readers an idea of the immigrant experience. The spanish in this book reflects the immigrant experience. The alienation from a comprehensive control is just one of the fun themes. The book is an explanation for Oscar, a Dominican-American boy who does not fit either title. Well, he\u2019s not American because he\u2019s Dominican. And he\u2019s certainly not Dominican, because just look at him! The general male stereotype for Dominican males was, well, this is a Dominican kid we\u2019re talking about, in a Dominican family: dude was supposed to have Atomic Level G, was supposed to be pulling in the bitches with both hands. Everybody noticed his lack of game and because they were Dominican everybody talked about it.\u201d Oscar describes himself: \u201cthe fat! The miles of stretch marks! The tumescent horriblesnes of his proportions! He looked straight out of a Daniel Clowes comic book. Or like the fat blackish kid in Beto Hernandez\u2019s Palomar: (this is a creepy Daniel Clowes comic called \"The Sensual Santa\" to give you an idea) In contrast, Oscar (as well as his entire family) end up being at war with the actual creepy man, the ultimate Dominican stereotype, the sex fiend, Trujillo: hiding your doe-eyed, large-breasted daughter from Trujillo, however, was anything but easy. (Like keeping the Ring from Sauron.) If you think the average Dominican guy's bad, Trujillo was five thousand times worse Dude had hundreds of spies whose entire job was to scour the provinces for his next piece of ass; if the procurement of ass had been any more central to the Trujillato the regime would have been the world's first culocracy (and maybe, in fact, it was) What\u2019s funny is that this is a book about sex. It is a book about the magic of sex and it\u2019s object, how much it is saved up for in the minds of men who think only about sex, how much it can dominate culture, how much people can wear it and how much it can control. But if you think sex is all-powerful, imagine the people who epitomize it. This is an adventure into the man who believed sex was the be-all, end-all. What a lot of people fail to realize in this unconventional storytelling, is that the story is very much unconventional as well. Here, the hero is a disenchanted, role-playing, lonely-hearted loser whose whole life has been a plague of his own people telling him he\u2019s not one of them, and the people whose land he is in rejecting him because he is just so weird and ugly. The thing is, Diaz harnesses Oscar between the two cultures\u2014this is done with a balance between the mystical and the fantastical. The book is a history of life within the Trujillo regime through the context of one family (Oscar\u2019s). The idea of Trujillo being more than human, an actual demon, whom if you cross curses your family for all existence is heavy. This kind of curse is known as the fuku . It dominates. It\u2019s the kind of magical realism that Latin American writers are known for. And it is brilliant. But America doesn\u2019t\u2019 have magically real aspects to our society, all mysticism is waylaid on the fringe. Oscar\u2019s story is a translation into the next best thing; See, the book dabbles with magical realism but from the closest perspective we have of that in our culture, fantasy games. Oscar is emphatic about the Lord of the Rings , about Dungeons and Dragons and fantasy games galore. A lot of the allusions that are made deal with epic characters in these fantasies. In essence, his psyche remains Dominican, by the standard that his life is consumed by this mystic element. But nevertheless, he is still in America. He is still in the plain and ordinary life that only filters magic through games and television. The book is about a kid alienated by two cultures who is really smart and affable, but unattractive and clingy. An affection starved derelict of the most erotically affectionate people on the planet. He's get everything going the wrong way for him except for the fact that he is Dominican, but the mere fact that he is Dominican instantiates this curse, the magically real aspect of his life rather than the American fantasy. The fuku. it is alienating to not know certain words or terms, like the many sci-fi references he makes throughout the book, but no more alienating than old literary references or presumptuous historical ones that so many classic writers do to augment their story. This is an original version of that same irritating pretentious alienation, and it is beautiful. because it forces you to go out your realm of ordinary thought and either research or imagine. ah man, this isn't a very good review. I'll finish this later. ...more Garbage This book was recommended to me by my cousin so I thought I would like it. I was so wrong. All that's here is childish profanity, body-shaming, and portraying minorities is stereotypical ways. For an author who is so lauded, I am left confused at what he has to offer. It all seemed so forced and inorganic for something that was supposedly based on the author's past that it felt like a poorly drawn cartoon that fifth graders would make as if they were aiming to create the next South Park . \u201cHow do you pick up the threads of an old life? How do you go on, when in your heart, you begin to understand, there is no going back? There are some things that time cannot mend. Some hurts that go too deep...that have taken hold.\u201d J.R.R. Tolkien. Oscar Wao is a wonder of nature. A nerd. Weirdo. Freak. This is the story of an outcast and his travails. A free spirit who speaks in sci-fi gibberish and aspires to become the Dominican J.R.R.Tolkien. His isolation is as massive as his 307 pounds and \u201cHow do you pick up the threads of an old life? How do you go on, when in your heart, you begin to understand, there is no going back? There are some things that time cannot mend. Some hurts that go too deep...that have taken hold.\u201d J.R.R. Tolkien. Oscar Wao is a wonder of nature. A nerd. Weirdo. Freak. This is the story of an outcast and his travails. A free spirit who speaks in sci-fi gibberish and aspires to become the Dominican J.R.R.Tolkien. His isolation is as massive as his 307 pounds and his inglorious virginity. His intelligence as fierce as his lascivious gluttony. His wit as vigorous as his passion for books and his need for love and validation. Life has never been easy for this obese, kind-hearted and ill-omened young man who lives with his scarred mother and his obstinate sister Lola in a crime ridden ghetto in New Jersey. He gulps down fear of rejection and his tremendous vulnerabilities and puts himself at risk with reckless abandon in a daredevil quest to find love, to feel joined to another human being, to project his long denied humanity in another person. Beware of fuk\u00fas though. These evil shadows, Mordor-like, lurk in every corner and have cursed Oscar\u2019s family for generations, sending them to prison, exposing them to tragic accidents, condemning them to unbearable heartbreak. Will this Dominican superstition obliterate the flickering candle of hope that casts light upon Oscar's doomed future? Is there really a curse or only life and bad choices that can prove fatal? Oscar simply got under my skin, tight and secretive as a plot. In taking his hand one doesn't only sign up for an exotic stroll in the labyrinthine paths that delineate plural identity, eluding geopolitical and cultural boundaries but also for a journey into the collective memory of the Trujillo's dictatorship era and a glimpse into the muted crimes, corruption and genocide committed in the Dominican Republic of the sixties. Junot D\u00edaz\u2019s acerbic use of the language, which fuses neologisms, slang jargon and transgressive humor creates a painfully labored illusion of spontaneity and fluency, a zeitgeist that reflects the multicultural menagerie of the New Jersey suburbs and the immigrant experience in a foreign land, which fosters without recognizing newcomers and alienates them from their native countries. Immigrants straddle two worlds, belong to none and are beset by both. Written in English yet built upon underlying Spanish diction, D\u00edaz\u2019s prose in itself proves that no language, no culture, no race is ever pure and that people all over the world exist transversally above the artifice of draconian purity. The creative process of writing is presented as the ultimate expression to define Oscar\u2019s forthright intertextuality where books, fictional characters and writers give reason to his otherwise miserable existence. Told in the first person narrative by Yunior*, Lola\u2019s boyfriend and D\u00edaz\u2019s alter-ego, and alternating past and present, history and literature, doom and promise, the story is unfolded from different perspectives enhancing the metafictional experience while disclosing subjacent plots such as the complexity of relationships in contemporary societies, the detritus of lives spent under constant physical and psychological strain endorsed by an abusive patriarchal hierarchy and the burden of serendipitous tyranny. Life can become a curse or a blessing, D\u00edaz whispers to the reader. Every choice has its own consequence. Human beings from everywhere will try to give answers to senseless questions through fuk\u00fas , involving faceless mongooses and voodoo, believing fervently in angels and demons rather than in the theory of evolution or in identifying their lost ones reincarnated in white gulls surfing the sky waves of eternity. The wrapping might differ but the nest of mankind\u2019s ignorance is essentially the same. In the twilight of one\u2019s consciousness, where ebbing lives are bathed in lulling moonbeams and canefields cuddle broken bodies, the unconcerned hobbit of this story draws a weary smile and takes pride in having acted following the stars of love and literature in a Universe where nothing ever ends and where one can always open a new book and find a new beginning. \u201cNothing more exhilarating (he wrote) than saving yourself by the simple act of waking.\u201d (201) ------------------- (*) My frustration with Yunior\u2019s selfish attitude with Lola, his debasing use of totos and his failure at being a true friend to Oscar accounts for the lacking star. ...more Not sure what was so wondrous about Oscar's life. Bullet Review: \"WAHHHHHH! My life is so horrible!! I'm 100+ pounds overweight, have no friends, and have never gotten laid!! Especially to some fine b!tch with huge tits! The one time I \"tried\", the girl was in an abusive relationship with a d-bag. I was TOTALLY the Nice Guy; she should have gone with ME!!! Now I will whine and do nerdy things, and occasionally mention them so that the cover blurb saying I'm the Dominican Tolkien won't be 100% inaccurate.\" If this is what you want to read, go ahea Bullet Review: \"WAHHHHHH! My life is so horrible!! I'm 100+ pounds overweight, have no friends, and have never gotten laid!! Especially to some fine b!tch with huge tits! The one time I \"tried\", the girl was in an abusive relationship with a d-bag. I was TOTALLY the Nice Guy; she should have gone with ME!!! Now I will whine and do nerdy things, and occasionally mention them so that the cover blurb saying I'm the Dominican Tolkien won't be 100% inaccurate.\" If this is what you want to read, go ahead, be my guest. But you know what? I WAS an overweight, friendless, dateless, sexless teenager and young adult. I buried myself in books and science fiction and college classes withOUT having to be constantly whining about the dates I wasn't getting (oh and objectifying every single set of tits out there). And you know what? My life has turned out awesome. You know why? Because I decided that *I* wanted to make my life awesome. I honestly was hoping to expand my reading tastes, to read about a Dominican guy who wanted to be like Tolkien. I was excited as this guy and I shared a love for geekdom. But if I need to wade through a boy (because Oscar is NOT a man in my book) who just wants to wallow in self-pity and whine about not having sex, no. Absolutely not. I really don't care in the slightest to read some dumb @$$ who can't grow the f@#$ up and deal with it; in fact I lack the number of fingers (zero) to show how many f$&@s I give about the so-called \"Brief Wondrous Life\" of this massive (har!) tool. I know I ought to TRY to get past 15% for my Book Club, but seriously, this is NOT WORTH my time. (Thanks to my fellow book club member who sacrificed her sanity and DID finish this to warn me away while I still had the chance.) ...more TBWLOOW would have been a \u2018good read\u2019, I honestly believe that, but I don't know\u2026 something happened along the way. Maybe it was the fact that I started this during the holidays, and that's not fair to any book, I'm the biggest wench from November 15th to January 15th. I should limit my reading to People magazine or maybe some old Three's Company scripts... I don't know, I haven't figured out the system just yet. Maybe it was my utter lack of knowledge about the political turmoil that is the Domi TBWLOOW would have been a \u2018good read\u2019, I honestly believe that, but I don't know\u2026 something happened along the way. Maybe it was the fact that I started this during the holidays, and that's not fair to any book, I'm the biggest wench from November 15th to January 15th. I should limit my reading to People magazine or maybe some old Three's Company scripts... I don't know, I haven't figured out the system just yet. Maybe it was my utter lack of knowledge about the political turmoil that is the Dominican Republic in the 1950s. I really have no excuse about this...(really, ask me how to become invisible in Maniac Mansion and I can spit that crap right out.) I know I should know about Trujillo and um, those other guys.... I'll know better in the next life. (sure) Maybe it was the fact that I decided to take French(1) in High School. Spanish was offered and it would have greatly improved my enjoyment of this novel...seeing I'd understand a fifth more of it. Maybe it was that I could never figure out who the hell was narrating the damn chapters. Maybe it was all the LOTR(2) references. But, I really think it was the fact that I frakking (not lost on me) hate footnotes.(3) I guess we'll never know and I guess that 2 months of my life is now just a blur with what is probably some really good writing and I'm the bigger fool in all of this. 1. In my defense, I did attend High School in New Hampshire from 1984-1988, and if you're at all familiar with this area and timeframe, you'd know that there is a heavy Canuck presence complete with Poutin and Bob & Doug MacKenzie references. So, you know, it was only natural for me to take French I (& II) instead of Spanish, which I could have easily learned if I had watched Welcome Back, Kotter with any frequency (and I don't mean that as a racist thing at all, I'm just completely oblivious..then again, I'm oblivious to french too.) 2. Okay, LOTR wasn't that bad. It did have Viggo. I guess I'm just being a grumpy girl. Sorry. 3. Really? How fucking distracting, yo. ...more These are the reasons I'm abandoning this book: 1. It's crude. And it's not just the overuse of the f word I'm over. The sex and violence is crude too. There's love that's personal and emotional and touches something deep down inside. And then there's banal sex that devalues human connection and emotion, the kind of thing someone who was desensitized to real relationships in preference of porn would write. This is the later. Even inexperienced Oscar's interest in women is banal and of no depth. 2. These are the reasons I'm abandoning this book: 1. It's crude. And it's not just the overuse of the f word I'm over. The sex and violence is crude too. There's love that's personal and emotional and touches something deep down inside. And then there's banal sex that devalues human connection and emotion, the kind of thing someone who was desensitized to real relationships in preference of porn would write. This is the later. Even inexperienced Oscar's interest in women is banal and of no depth. 2. It's a whole lot of telling without much showing. All the \"and then this happened\" started to wear on me without getting at the heart of Oscar. 3. The tone is condescending and antagonistic and it made me defensive. I didn't enjoy reading this. I was interested in the Dominican history (if it wasn't fictionalized, not sure) and somewhat curious about what made Oscar's life brief, but not enough to wade through a bunch of trash to get there. I asked for spoilers at my book club from the only person who managed to make it to the end (nobody else liked it) and it doesn't sound like the ending is rewarding enough (or at all) to suffer through it. Oftentimes I shelf a book on my did-not-finish shelf and think maybe someday I may return to it, but not this. I'm done. ...more I have tended to neglect the Latin American masters of magical realism because of foolish biases in expectation. For my taste I stubbornly clung to a preference for outright science fiction or full-fledged fantasy over some half-way order of things or a sporadic supernatural or otherworldly force of causality in a narrative. But I am changing my ways under the onslaught of talented writers who make the magical realism approach work well. Like with this one, where Diaz gets me onboard already in I have tended to neglect the Latin American masters of magical realism because of foolish biases in expectation. For my taste I stubbornly clung to a preference for outright science fiction or full-fledged fantasy over some half-way order of things or a sporadic supernatural or otherworldly force of causality in a narrative. But I am changing my ways under the onslaught of talented writers who make the magical realism approach work well. Like with this one, where Diaz gets me onboard already in the prologue with the nameless narrator explaining how this book is a \u201cfuk\u00fa story\u201d, an example of a sort of karmic curse playing out endlessly since it was given birth in the New World with Columbus\u2019 landing in Hispaniola. The clencher for me was his sleight of hand with the following: It\u2019s perfectly fine if you don\u2019t believe in these \u201csuperstitions.\u201d In fact, it\u2019s better than fine\u2014it\u2019s perfect. Because no matter what you believe, fuk\u00fa believes in you. The tale that leads in this book is the life of Oscar at different times in his life. He is an overweight nerd who immigrated with his mother and sister from the Dominican Republic to Paterson, New Jersey, in the 60s. He has some nurturing and protection from his secretive mother and wild sister Lola, but his fatness, social ineptness, and geeky interests in comics, fantasy and sci fi, and, later, video games make it impossible for him to find love and assures he is an easy mark for bullies. We watch him develop, cringe over him as endless, fruitless crushes obsess him, and get hopeful over his throwing himself into writing as a sphere for success. As we follow him into college at Rutgers, where his sister studies, we can only be sad over how he has never grown up. But somehow Oscar is able to achieve a meaningful platonic relationship with a popular student he is smitten with, something his roommate has failed through his typical Don Juan type of pursuit. And what was simply a childish escape into the fantasy of comics, \u201cLord of the Rings\u201d, and \u201cDune\u201d becomes a perfect medium later in life when he must comprehend the cruel legacy of Trujillo\u2019s reign on his family and people. Actually, we get this overlay from the beginning by the narrator, who seems to be channeling Oscar. Tucked into a footnote on page two, we make the acquaintance of the dictator who held supreme power over the DR from 1930-61: A portly, sadistic, pig-eyed mulatto who bleached his skin, wore platform shoes, and had a fondness for Napolean-era haberdashery \u2026 He was our Sauron, our Arawn, our Darkseid, our Once and Future Dictator, a personaje so outlandish, so perverse, so dreadful that not even a sci-fi writer could have made his ass up. The overall thrust of Oscar\u2019s story, which we can only guess will be brief and somehow wondrous, is interrupted by long interludes that paint the portraits of key members of his family\u2019s lives. It will become clear that we cannot understand Oscar and that Oscar cannot become Oscar in isolation from that knowledge. His sister Lola runs away, experiences great passion and heartbreak, and gets in trouble before finally settling down. We follow the life of his mother, Belicia, who was even more a force of nature. She works in the with a bakery business while living under the strict but loving regime of an aunt, with no knowledge of who her real father. She is pretty and wild, and gets in trouble when she falls for the effete son of an evil military officer high in Trujillo\u2019s power structure. She barely escapes with her life (a mystical mongoose, at least in her mind, had an important role to play). The next step is into the life of her father (Oscar\u2019s grandfather), the surgeon and intellectual Abelard, a man blessed in the love of his wife and three daughters. How he stood up to the practice of Trujillo of taking and raping whatever teen daughter in his land that caught his eye is a true tale of superhero proportions. For Diaz to bear witness to this aspect of history through the tragedy of Abelard was powerful and disturbing. So easy to imagine fuk\u00fa in action and that Belicia\u2019s survival as some sort of miracle. Oscar in his twenties ends up teaching high school English in Paterson, and in his despair he seeks more of his roots and identity and comes to spend more and more time in DR on breaks or summers. He falls in love yet once again. This time he has some hope of reciprocation. But despite Trujillo being long gone, fuku still lives, and Oscar is brave in facing its forces. The hidden narrator emerges more clearly now as his friend from college and Lola\u2019s intermittent boyfriend, Yunior, who has told us that his writing of the story is a form of counter-fuk\u00fa, which he calls zafa. I was totally wowed (\u201cWao-ed\u201d) by the craft and richness in this story, by the coming of age saga of both boy and mother, the immigrant experience of striving to fit in vs. need for cultural identity, and the pitting of the imagination against the real horrors of a corrupt state. I didn\u2019t get a lot of the geeky references beyond Tolkien and Herbert and popular movies I had seen. That didn\u2019t detract much. A lot of the Spanish interlacing in the book I wished I could have gotten more than what context revealed. One reader has made an annotated guide to these bottlenecks to full appreciation ( http://www.annotated-oscar-wao.com/ ). I learned by internet surfing that it took about 10 years for D\u00edaz to write the book after a successful volume of short stories called \u201cDrown\u201d (a free story from this called Edson, New Jersey is available). Yunior is a character in a lot of these and is the protagonist of his 2012 novel \u201cThis is How You Lose Her\u201d. I like his voice and his struggles with his macho ways, so I aim to read it (and a science fiction novel under construction). The ironic, self-deprecating humor shown by both Yunior and Oscar alike is an outlook I love. In a joint interview with D\u00edaz and fellow writer and friend Francesco Goldman in the Christian Scientist Monitor , Diaz shares a lot on his struggles to achieve what I find as a perfect balance of light and dark in his book: \"Oscar Wao\" more than any of my other works was a delicate balancing act \u2013 keeping the voice from becoming too funny or too bleak, too historical or too nerdish. Junot D\u00edaz, by Nina Sundin ...more Hype can really change the way you perceive a book. Although the buzz for ' The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao ' has been steadily building since it was released almost a year ago, the book I picked up at the bookstore had a big, gold starburst attached to it reading ' WINNER - 2008 Pulitzer Prize' , and had been brandished ' THE BEST BOOK I EVER READ' by no less authority than my friend Kevin right here on this very website. It's almost not fair, the way we build up these books, or movies, or othe Hype can really change the way you perceive a book. Although the buzz for ' The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao ' has been steadily building since it was released almost a year ago, the book I picked up at the bookstore had a big, gold starburst attached to it reading ' WINNER - 2008 Pulitzer Prize' , and had been brandished ' THE BEST BOOK I EVER READ' by no less authority than my friend Kevin right here on this very website. It's almost not fair, the way we build up these books, or movies, or other pop-culture phenomenon as the new best thing ever, because we set up a culture of expectations to which nothing could ever live up. But, at the same time, when something strikes such a profound chord in our hearts, souls, and psyches, it's hard not to want to climb up to the mountaintops (or perhaps our laptops, rather) and let the whole world in on our discoveries. The drawback, of course, is that every person who encounters these things are expecting some sort of transcendent, perspective-altering experience, and when a merely very good or even great book or film comes along instead, we find ourselves a little let down. Such was the case with ' The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao ', a great book that I enjoyed immensely, but left my world-view more or less intact. The book's title is a misleading, because although it does encompass the relatively brief life of a young man named Oscar, it is really about a great deal more, detailing the heritage and history of the de Leon family, from their cursed beginnings in Santo Domingo to the miseries and triumphs that followed them to the States, all the while providing a great deal of background on the history of the Dominican Republic as well, especially the horrid era of Rafael Trujillo, a dictator who ruled the island with an iron fist for over 30 years. The writing is rich and the stories engaging, and the characters have a great deal of depth. At times, however, the book can be a bit frustrating. My biggest gripe is the extensive use of 'spanglish' throughout the novel. I don't speak much Spanish, and contextual clues can only take you so far. I do most of my reading as far from a computer as I can, which meant going online later on and trying to decipher certain words or phrases that had thrown me for a loop, often to no avail, as online translations aren't very good (for proof, I'd refer you to my grades in Spanish class in college). It's also unclear who is narrating the book until around halfway through, when I was surprised to learn that it wasn't a typical omniscient entity narrating the story, but actually a real person who all of a sudden would break into first person and become a character in the story. This bothered me, as it sort of altered my interpretation of the story up to that point and going forward. In the end though, these are small gripes, and the book is beautiful, affecting, and heartbreaking, because we've all known someone like Oscar, who just doesn't quite fit in, but wants to so badly, but not at the expense of being himself. There's so much muted heartbreak in the character of Oscar, it's almost physically painful. Here's Oscar watching his equally nerdy friends get girlfriends while he remains alone. Here's Oscar being the intellectual whore to some horrible college girl. Here's Oscar waiting patiently with his perfectly arranged sci-fi books, the books that mean everything in the world to him, before packing them up and leaving after none of his students show up to his after-school science fiction and fantasy club. Here's Oscar wanting to die because he fears he will never be loved. And, finally, a sliver of redemption through all the sadness, like a brief, small smile or laugh at the end of a long crying jag. You root for Oscar, just like you root for that friend in high school or college (or maybe it's you?) who you know is never going to get the girl and will always fall into the friend trap, but you still hope against hope that maybe tonight is the night everything works out for him. It's the quiet desperation of emerging manhood, and Junot Diaz perfectly captures it, and he and Oscar break your heart in doing so. ...more Because in my brain there is a sharp-edge precise hierarchy of the MODERN CLASSICS (read in the most recent years), and because this book is newly minted therein: 1ST...........MIDDLESEX 2ND...........THE CORRECTIONS 3RD...........WORLD'S END 4TH (TIE).....ON BEAUTY/THE BRIEF WONDROUS LIFE... I mean, surely this is a book to join the others. It's about pretty much the same thing as those others: it deals with the Family Odyssey. Theme of the decade..? Half century? I subscribe to the belief that nowa Because in my brain there is a sharp-edge precise hierarchy of the MODERN CLASSICS (read in the most recent years), and because this book is newly minted therein: 1ST...........MIDDLESEX 2ND...........THE CORRECTIONS 3RD...........WORLD'S END 4TH (TIE).....ON BEAUTY/THE BRIEF WONDROUS LIFE... I mean, surely this is a book to join the others. It's about pretty much the same thing as those others: it deals with the Family Odyssey. Theme of the decade..? Half century? I subscribe to the belief that nowadays the family chronicle, the history that lives within a single human, event, thing... well, all that is what readers wanna read and Pulitzer givers prize. Oscar Wao is about several things, but the main family curse, that which honors the BRIEF part (SPOILER ALERT this ain't) in the title, is the centerpiece. Golly how I love family curses (duh: American Gothic is about as cool, to me, as the French New Wave). Anyway, it all amounts to this: Oscar is unique not because he is a social pariah in many many many ways. He is unique because his family history is unique, rich, relevant. This would be a mixed media piece were it in an art gallery. This very dexterous Dominican-american author talks about the DR like Arenas talks about Cuba in \"Antes que anochezca.\" The sass, the voice, the whimsical style... this is what won the novel its many awards. People are impressed by this exciting work and to them all I say please read those on my list (mmm...places 1-3) before you hail this a masterpiece. It is almost one, and I will even say that it is way more readable, and yes, much more relevant to Mexico (and me) than the other aforementioned novels. That I read it in two days, only because I had to sleep... well, that says more about it than I can try to describe. ...more This book is a true wonder and treasure, the very definition of a 5 star read. I'm placing it in the exhalted position of one of my 3 favorite books of all time, sitting alongside The World According to Garp and Love in the Time of Cholera. It is a magnificent chronicle of a Dominican-American family and the fuku that haunts them throughout generations, with its main focus on poor Oscar, a heavyset nerd personified in eternal search for love, preferably the variety that is accompanied by sex. Th This book is a true wonder and treasure, the very definition of a 5 star read. I'm placing it in the exhalted position of one of my 3 favorite books of all time, sitting alongside The World According to Garp and Love in the Time of Cholera. It is a magnificent chronicle of a Dominican-American family and the fuku that haunts them throughout generations, with its main focus on poor Oscar, a heavyset nerd personified in eternal search for love, preferably the variety that is accompanied by sex. The narrative jumps back and forth in time, telling several marvelous stories in non-linear fashion within a single tale. Oscar's sister Lola (the story is narrated by her boyfriend who is also Oscar's closest friend) and their mother and the cousin who raised her and Oscar's bilogical grandfather each take turns at center stage before returning the spotlight once more to Oscar. As a Pulitzer Prize winner one expects masterful writerly style prose, and this book does not disappoint in that regard. But it also has a skillfully rendered contemporary feel that one might expect to find in an urban novel, and it reads as a polished piece of historical fiction with footnotes galore as well. This book gives you everything you could expect to find in a literary masterpiece and then some. It will break your heart while simultaneously making it soar because above all else The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao is about the most valuable possession any human being can hold - HOPE. Bravo, Mr. Diaz. He certainly took his time in between books, but every second working on his second one was brilliantly spent. Bravo! ...more Mini review in english NOTE: READ THIS NOVEL IN ENGLISH AKA THE ORIGINAL LANGUAGE DO IT OR YOU WILL LOOSE A LOT OF IDIOMATIC JOKES and ALL the good stuff. Said this, I can definitely say that I am to be declared as Junot Diaz fan. Because I heard about this novel before it was assigned as class reading at uni. It never ceased to amaze me by the different narrative voices, the words used of dominican spanish that the writing style includes and all the footnotes that the book have. They are in th Mini review in english NOTE: READ THIS NOVEL IN ENGLISH AKA THE ORIGINAL LANGUAGE DO IT OR YOU WILL LOOSE A LOT OF IDIOMATIC JOKES and ALL the good stuff. Said this, I can definitely say that I am to be declared as Junot Diaz fan. Because I heard about this novel before it was assigned as class reading at uni. It never ceased to amaze me by the different narrative voices, the words used of dominican spanish that the writing style includes and all the footnotes that the book have. They are in there and they are part of the story. Oscar is a overweight dominican-american kid in Patterson, who lives for nerdy things like Lord of the rings, star wars, and loads of comic books. He has no friends, no girlfriend but he's a cool kid. His family is part of the people that escaped the island to live in USA, exiled by the regime of the dictator Rafael Le\u00f3nidas Trujillo. This was the first doom, the legendary FUKU, that seems to follow Oscar's kin. Narrated by various voices, this novel seems happy to escape any clasification or genre. It's a mix of things but i'ts interesting, funny, tragic and highly relatable. Oscar misfortunes caused by the FUKU are what pulls the story and how the past of his family is mportant in his future. Trully how the fuku always get what it wants. Not need to say more. This book deserves what has got, the Pulitzer prize and all the recognition. BTW DON'T READ IT IN SPANISH, I'LL KILL THE FUN. ******************************************* Rese\u00f1a en espa\u00f1ol Conocer novelas a trav\u00e9s de redes sociales de las mejores cosas que ha dado el internet. De esta novela o\u00ed en los canales de Booktube en ingl\u00e9s antes de que me fuera asignado para leer en clase (incluso le dije al profe que ya lo conoc\u00eda). Una novela que merece todo el reconocimiento que ha tenido desde su publicaci\u00f3n y que recomiendo encarecidamente leer en ingl\u00e9s. <---C>Oscar de Le\u00f3n</---C> es un dominicano americano residente en Paterson, New Jersey. Desde ni\u00f1o era lo que se llama \"un dominicano de verdad\", que persegu\u00eda a las ni\u00f1as y bailaba con todas. Pero la adolescencia se llev\u00f3 este encanto caribe\u00f1o y lo convirti\u00f3 en un jovencito gordo, inseguro y amante extremo de los c\u00f3mics y la ciencia ficci\u00f3n. A trav\u00e9s de una especie de coming of age de este muchacho, el autor navega por varias voces narrativas construyendo lo que sucedi\u00f3 en el pasado de la familia De Le\u00f3n Cabral, marcado por el legendario fuk\u00fa, una maldici\u00f3n de origen africano que azota a los dominicanos y que en su momento represent\u00f3 el jefe supremo y azote de la isla: \u00a0el dictador y jefe Rafael Le\u00f3nidas Trujillo Molina. They say it came first from Africa, carried in the screams of the enslaved; that it was the death bane of the Ta\u00ednos, uttered just as one world perished and another began; that it was a demon drawn into Creation through the nightmare door that was cracked open in the Antilles. Fuk\u00fa americanus, or more colloquially; fuk\u00fa\u2014generally a curse or a doom of some kind; specifically the Curse and the Doom of the New World. El dictador Trujillo Esta novela (traducida como La maravillosa vida breve de \u00d3scar Wao) es una novela que no puede encasillarse en un g\u00e9nero determinado. Dotada de una caracter\u00edstica heterilig\u00fce (escrita en ingl\u00e9s con palabras de espa\u00f1ol dominicano), que usa aclaratorios y humor\u00edsticos pie de p\u00e1gina para explicar al lector lo que no sabe sobre el gobierno del se\u00f1or Trujillo (1930-1961), es una obra que no puede clasificarse como una novela del com\u00fan, \u2014Se me viene a la mente con el ingenioso uso de este recurso en Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell \u2014 m\u00e1s bien es una que se siente conforme en su estatus, en su diferencia. Desde su debut literario, el dominicano americano Junot D\u00edaz ha trabajado por reflejar el mundo de los dominicanos inmigrantes en Estados Unidos y c\u00f3mo en esta sociedad forman guettos en los que su cultura persiste, aunque no es la misma. En esta obra se viaja entre el presente de \u00d3scar; gordo y amante de la fantas\u00eda de Tolkien, Stan Lee y Star Wars que sue\u00f1a con escribir una novela y conseguir una novia y en el pasado caribe\u00f1o de su familia; regresa al pasado m\u00e1s crudo de sus ancestros, de los dominicanos exiliados de la isla y de los que vivieron bajo el pu\u00f1o de hierro de un dictador megal\u00f3mano que renombraba lugares con su nombre y que no ten\u00eda consideraci\u00f3n para llevarse a las hijas de cualquiera para abusar de ellas y dem\u00e1s atrocidades, como la masacre de haitianos en 1937 , conocida como la Masacre del perejil. Sometimes it\u2019s slow and sometimes it\u2019s fast. It\u2019s doomish in that way, makes it harder to put a finger on, to brace yourself against. But be assured: like Darkseid\u2019s Omega Effect, like Morgoth\u2019s bane,\u2193 no matter how many turns and digressions this shit might take, it always\u2014and I mean always\u2014gets its man. Junot D\u00edaz No se podr\u00eda encontrar en la narrativa moderna un autor que navegue entre lo latino y lo estadounidense, uno que no se casa con ninguna identificaci\u00f3n y logre as\u00ed combinar ambas culturas con facilidad. Esta novela es la segunda obra de Junot, en la que hace uso de un personaje recurrente suyo que ejerce como su alter ego y narra partes decisivas de la vida del antih\u00e9roe obeso. Es una obra dram\u00e1tica y divertida, con un lenguaje callejero y un humor negro que alerta al lector sobre la maldici\u00f3n legendaria del fuk\u00fa, ese mal que persigue al protagonista y a su familia. Nada podr\u00eda salvarlos de ello excepto tratar de evitarlo con un Zafa, una especie de contra maleficio que puede tratar de enga\u00f1ar a este mal milenario. La novela es un zafa particular, es una forma de evitar lo inevitable. Sin duda esta novela merece el reconocimiento que merece, no s\u00f3lo funciona como saga familiar sino que tambi\u00e9n es una novela de crecimiento y por eso no se puede encasillar en un g\u00e9nero. El primer premio Pulitzer otorgado a un dominicano americano en la historia lo recibi\u00f3 esta novela. Y vaya que lo merece. ...more The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao spoke my language of self consciousness. The parts of yourself that you wish weren't there and cannot forget about. They could perch on your shoulder like not so polar opposites of shame and pride. Maybe not spoken fluently but we could get by and have a nice conversation about all the good stuff like families, books, musics, hopes and disappointments. I liked being talked to. It means a lot to me to be able to use my own heart and mind and feel something abo The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao spoke my language of self consciousness. The parts of yourself that you wish weren't there and cannot forget about. They could perch on your shoulder like not so polar opposites of shame and pride. Maybe not spoken fluently but we could get by and have a nice conversation about all the good stuff like families, books, musics, hopes and disappointments. I liked being talked to. It means a lot to me to be able to use my own heart and mind and feel something about what I'm being told. I wish that Lola's boyfriend cared more for Oscar than out of guilt. His voice looked twice, one eye on Oscar and the other still on himself. It was honest in an embarrassed way but without the whole insight that 20/20 hindsight affords. It was right I just wished it wasn't so. If I'm wishing I am in the book. I loved that feeling. I didn't want things to happen that were going to happen because the patterns had already been in their own loop. No, I didn't care what he thought about Oscar more than what I thought about Oscar (I kinda love him). It would have been more right if the guy could have spoken for himself. It was the plight of Oscar's life that he did not speak for himself. He was stuck with the shadows he stood in (a 300 pound shadow). But I cared about Oscar a whole lot and that means a lot to me. I cared about a kid who didn't know how to feel what was in his heart in the flesh. Wanting to ask him himself meant a lot to me. I wanted to hug him when he stands up to his friends, when he falls in love yet again. I wanted to shake him when he breaks his own heart yet again. I kinda love Lola, his sister. I loved Lola A LOT. I'd put up a poster of her on my wall. She was a heroine in trying to see people for who they were. That's my kind of girl! I liked that the references were a part of their lives. Language of heart and shadows. English, Spanish, DR culture, The Lord of the Rings, footnotes and history. History not as a footnote but influences, another sort of shadow. The shadows could fight themselves on the walls at night like a scary shadow puppet theater (I can do a mean duck). I was scared of their mom, Beli, as much as I was scared of Trujillo. It meant a lot to me to feel I was on their side and be scared of their mom. I was scared of the culture of sex and expectations. I was scared of not getting to be heard in all the languages you could possibly use to make a new language of self. I liked 'Oscar' because I wanted to tell other people to screw off and read Watership Down with Lola and watch sci-fi with Oscar (but not Blakes 7! Jesus). I knew why they didn't because it was the self conscious language that could be a lot like mine. It felt good to give a damn about what happened to them. That's all I wanted was to give a shit and this book did that. Tell me how you feel and let me see enough of it to know if I could pick up those expressions and recognize it again if I saw it on someone else (or myself). This is a good book. The place in my heart that awards star ratings on goodreads says four. It might be more later. I'll have to see how the whole inner footnote thing goes down. If they sit on my shoulders it is going to be a five. Could be... (Edit from 2012: Not a five. No dandruff.) Now here's my fuku survival kit! One badass big sister. If you don't have one I'll be her. I always wanted to be an older sister. Say three times fast \"I do believe in Fuku! I do believe in Fuku! I do believe in Fuku!\" Find something you really love (it doesn't have to be Blakes 7! It had better not be Blakes 7) and wear it across your chest like a bullet proof vest. Make stories out of the worst kinda history crap. I'd make my hero a Haitian who was denied acknowledgement. I acknowledge you! (I don't get that the footnotes were hard to follow. If you pay attention to history of anywhere else it's recognizable. Racism, roots, pride. Rage. The three r's and a p. It's what you look at to be self conscious of! The footnotes of life.) If you're Mario Vargas Llosa you probably don't get a fuku survival kit. I suspect that Diaz doesn't like him one little bit.I think he deserves protection against fuku the same as everyone else. He's probably not afraid, though. Step two! Wear a gas mask. It's contagious! Above all else (shoulders of giants all else!): speak for yourself. You don't have to know all you want to say. Open your mouth. That's it. Second thought, don't wear a gas mask. Not listening is fuku. ...more Even a cursory examination of my book shelves will peg me as genre reader, mostly sci-fi and fantasy. The sort of book that would win the Pulitzer Prize (like this book) rarely graces my to-read list let alone actually making it into my reading queue. But, like so many other books out of my wheelhouse, a bookclub brought this book into my reading rotation. Sometimes that works out , other times it does not . This time it worked out and I enjoyed the strange, twisty, tragic story of Oscar and Lola Even a cursory examination of my book shelves will peg me as genre reader, mostly sci-fi and fantasy. The sort of book that would win the Pulitzer Prize (like this book) rarely graces my to-read list let alone actually making it into my reading queue. But, like so many other books out of my wheelhouse, a bookclub brought this book into my reading rotation. Sometimes that works out , other times it does not . This time it worked out and I enjoyed the strange, twisty, tragic story of Oscar and Lola and their afflicted family line. So one of the reasons I enjoy genre reading is that they generally come to a conclusion. Some quest or mission or goal is achieved by the end (be it of the book or the 10 book series). I have found that with contemporary literature is that a satisfying ending isn't always in the cards. It is all about the journey or the characters or the message of the book (and there are rarely dragons or space shapes in them to make up for this deficiency). Call me a philistine for this (I've been called worse), but that is just how I like my literary bread buttered. And this book is no different in that respect. There isn't really some large climax the story builds up to, there is no great clash of forces at the end, there is no Crowning Moment of Awesome for any of our characters. In fact the overall tone of the book is rather melancholy as the narrator describes the many terrible fates that had befallen his friend Oscar and his family, stretching back to his grandfather's time in the Dominican Republic. The story itself is told somewhat out of order but spanning three generations of the de Leon family, starting in the 1940's during the reign of Rafael Trujillo to the 1990's. In fact Trujillo plays a very significant role in the family's story and Diaz's use of infotaining footnotes throughout show that it wasn't just the de Leon's that suffered, but the entire country. Of course the blame could also be placed at the doorstep of fuku, a pervasive mystical curse that is part of the Dominican folklore. Overall I found the choice of breaking of the story effective. I was aware of some past events that informed the current circumstances of the story making their eventual reveal more impactful. It also allowed the reader to get a better sense of Oscar's circumstances and legacy after we had already met him and knew some of his story. And while Oscar is the titular character, the other members of his family, past and present, are just as important and interesting with their own struggles and obstacles to overcome (And man do they have a lot of those). I also liked the narrative voice. It had a very conversational tone but was very much involved in the story itself (as you later discover). It also offered an interesting window into Dominican culture which very much informed the context Oscar and his family was operating in. The overall delivery of the story through this voice worked really well in conveying just what Oscar and his family experienced, offering its own take on the situation and motivations of people instead of just relaying the events themselves. Plus I can always appreciate a narrator that can effectively describe other characters through what their role would be in Lord of the Rings . The characters themselves were very fascinating and are really where this book shines. Diaz did a wonderful job making them all stand on their own and have their own motivations instead of merely being props to move the story along. While Oscar was obviously the main subject of the book Diaz by no means gave his sister and mother the short stick when it came to crafting their characters. I would have liked to learn more about the narrator and how he became such a big nerd himself given his circumstances. So while this book didn't give me the sort of satisfaction my typical genre reading do it was still a fascinating and engaging read that is well worth your time. ...more I might be controversial by giving this book only 3 stars, but it didn't click with me the way I expected it to based on the universal \"Wao\" it got from everyone else. All those Mordor references felt forced, and I felt a bit attacked as a reader rather than invited. Anyone else want to join in my dissent? I knew kids like Oscar Wao. In fact, I was Oscar Wao, an overweight, extremely nerdy kid whose lifelong ambition was to simply be cool. And so much of what Oscar Wao endures - and, more often not, through his own hand - is hilariously and uncomfortably familiar to me. The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao is a genius work from Junot Diaz, who emerged a decade ago in a blaze of glory after the publication of his debut collection of short stories, Drown . That rare voice that speaks of the culture c I knew kids like Oscar Wao. In fact, I was Oscar Wao, an overweight, extremely nerdy kid whose lifelong ambition was to simply be cool. And so much of what Oscar Wao endures - and, more often not, through his own hand - is hilariously and uncomfortably familiar to me. The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao is a genius work from Junot Diaz, who emerged a decade ago in a blaze of glory after the publication of his debut collection of short stories, Drown . That rare voice that speaks of the culture clash of living in the twin worlds of Latin America and the United States, Diaz perfectly encapsulates the multi-generational struggle every Hispanic-born child faces in America. Although Oscar de Leon (later Wao) is the focal point of this novel, the narration by his friend Yunior (really, it's Junot Diaz speaking) reflects the emotionally wrenching diaspora that a majority of Dominicans endured throughout the years of the violently cruel dictatorship of Trujillo, and how that homesickness stuck with not just the exiled, but their American-born children as well. It's not just Oscar's sweetly disastrous life that's examined here, but Yunior and Oscar's sister Lola as well, a struggle that, while born from the tropics of the Dominican Republic, are easy for non- dominicanos to identify with. There's so much about The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao that's so immediately appealing. Yunior's narration is forceful, full of brio, yet also moistened with guilt. His chronicle of Oscar's nerd-obsessed upbringing (Oscar dreams of becoming the Dominican Tolkien) parallels Yunior's insistence, his pull, at being the typical Dominican male, full of sexual vigor and bravado. And that's a common theme explored here; Oscar is a complete anomaly as a Dominicano , completely lacking in that sexual gene, that charisma and confidence that his male peers surely possess, yet Oscar makes no attempt in reconciling that difference. It's that difference that produces many laughs, but, ultimately, horrifying heartbreak over what could have been. Simply put, The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao is truly wonderful, bridging the gap between the eloquent, first person narrative prose of someone like Philip Roth, and the hardcore nerd obsessions that Diaz and myself and many other Hispanic males like me (and non-Hispanic males and females as well) surrendered ourselves to easily. It was a 15 year gap between Drown and The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao , and I'm hoping there won't be such a gap for his follow up. ...more An impressive book, both in what it includes and what it has achieved. The Brief Life of Oscar Wao centers on Oscar De Leon, an overweight sci-fi nerd growing up in Paterson, New Jersey. Junot Diaz employs a frame structure in which multiple characters narrate the story, a good amount of which takes place in the Dominican Republic. We spend the most time with Yunior de Las Casas, Oscar's roommate, a playboy who informs us of the curse that has plagued Oscar and his family for decades. I can see w An impressive book, both in what it includes and what it has achieved. The Brief Life of Oscar Wao centers on Oscar De Leon, an overweight sci-fi nerd growing up in Paterson, New Jersey. Junot Diaz employs a frame structure in which multiple characters narrate the story, a good amount of which takes place in the Dominican Republic. We spend the most time with Yunior de Las Casas, Oscar's roommate, a playboy who informs us of the curse that has plagued Oscar and his family for decades. I can see why this book won the Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Critics Circle Award. Diaz writes a multi-generational saga that incorporates magical realism, various allusions to science-fiction and fantasy, and a hefty amount of Spanish and neologisms. His characters all have unique, vibrant voices that interact with one another in playful and sometimes powerful ways. Diaz stays consistent with his depiction of Dominican culture and the consequences of Rafael Trujillo's dictatorship on the De Leon family. But I also found the book tiring, in that it set out to accomplish so much and yet did not leave a lasting emotional impact on me. The characters, while variegated, came across as one-dimensional - despite all the hardships they faced - and I sometimes felt a lack of synergy between the cultural aspects of this book and its use of magical realism. I admire Diaz's writing on a technical level. His story just did not find my heart. Overall, recommended to anyone curious about the hype surrounding Diaz or anyone who wants to engage with a frame story/magical realism/Dominican culture. I wan to learn more about Diaz's somewhat autobiographical relationship with Yunior; I wonder how much he blurs the lines of fiction and creative nonfiction with this character. ...more I enjoyed this book a lot, and think it deserves the good reviews it's received. I just hadn't expected it to be quite as *sad* as it was. Somehow, it wasn't the more obviously depressing aspects (e.g. the persecution and torture that were routinely practiced under the Trujillo dictatorship in the Dominican Republic) that got to me so much as the smaller stuff. The continued failure of the various members of Oscar's family to connect, the accumulated hostility between generations, as well as the I enjoyed this book a lot, and think it deserves the good reviews it's received. I just hadn't expected it to be quite as *sad* as it was. Somehow, it wasn't the more obviously depressing aspects (e.g. the persecution and torture that were routinely practiced under the Trujillo dictatorship in the Dominican Republic) that got to me so much as the smaller stuff. The continued failure of the various members of Oscar's family to connect, the accumulated hostility between generations, as well as the meanness and bullying suffered by outsider Oscar throughout, were ultimately more depressing than the earlier, more overtly brutal, events in Santo Domingo. You keep rooting for Oscar to catch a break and he never really does. Equally depressing was the narrator's ongoing inability to transcend the machisto Latino stereotype of repeated infidelity because of an apparent need to screw any woman that came in range. Only the women are strong in this book, and only one of them appears to be granted a shot at happiness. Fortunately, the book is not a total descent into darkness - primarily because the main narrator is sympathetic, funny and smart. He provides insightful commentary on Oscar's family affairs (even if he is unable to translate the insights to his own life). Oscar's family history unfolds according to a relatively complicated framework, intercutting past and present scenes using several flashbacks. Handled inexpertly, this has the potential to be confusing and/or irritating*, but Diaz manages it perfectly. (* The execrable \"Behind the Scenes at the Museum\" comes to mind.) A few random comments: 1. Diaz doesn't eschew the apparently obligatory 'magical' element, but I found the symbolism of the mongoose-lion critter in the canefield a bit murky (though I did learn the new word 'chabin(e)' : Person of mixed-blood who appears to bear the characteristics of only the lighter skinned parent; sometimes referred to in English as being \"yellow.\") 2. I think this book must achieve some kind of record for the number of acknowledgements made by the author. The impulse to thank everyone who ever gave him encouragement is understandable, perhaps even laudable. But I personally would have drawn the line at thanking whole cities (Perth Amboy?) ...more This is almost like (Llosa's) The Feast of the Goat: The Sequel. The central character Oscar and his sister are descendants of victims of the cruel three-plus decades of the Trujillo dictatorship (their grandparents, directly; their mother, indirectly). They do not remember the past. In fact, they do not know the past. But the past apparently has not forgotten them. They carry its curse, \"fuku,\" and when Oscar falls in love, he only gets a brief taste of happiness by paying for it with his life. This is almost like (Llosa's) The Feast of the Goat: The Sequel. The central character Oscar and his sister are descendants of victims of the cruel three-plus decades of the Trujillo dictatorship (their grandparents, directly; their mother, indirectly). They do not remember the past. In fact, they do not know the past. But the past apparently has not forgotten them. They carry its curse, \"fuku,\" and when Oscar falls in love, he only gets a brief taste of happiness by paying for it with his life. Like Manuel Puig's Kiss of the Spider Woman this also has footnotes. But whereas the former has footnotes seemingly only to satisfy Puig's certain idosyncrasy, this one by Junot Diaz has them out of necessity. It seems that unlike Llosa he finds it difficult to build up his story without these minute aide-memoire at the bottom of the pages, fearful perhaps that the reader wouldn't know what he's talking about without them. But what can we expect? Llosa is a master story-teller, with a Nobel under his belt, while Diaz only has a Pulitzer though he exhibits a lot of promise. Nevertheless, Oscar Wao is as enthralling and as well-told as Llosa's Goat. So it likewise deserves my highest praise. (now, by way of footnote, I say that to those who have not read Goat and Oscar yet, it is best if you read Goat first before reading Oscar...) ...more This book was kind of disappointing. It had a lot of pages. I'd have to go check to see how many for sure, but only about 83 of them were actually necessary for the story. The rest of it was just filler swear words and phrases in Spanish that I didn't understand. Oh yeah, also references to nerdy things that I've never heard of, like fantasy movies and famous sci fi books. (Because I of course, am the epitome of not-nerdy.) The whole book swore and swore and swore like a swearing sailor, and then This book was kind of disappointing. It had a lot of pages. I'd have to go check to see how many for sure, but only about 83 of them were actually necessary for the story. The rest of it was just filler swear words and phrases in Spanish that I didn't understand. Oh yeah, also references to nerdy things that I've never heard of, like fantasy movies and famous sci fi books. (Because I of course, am the epitome of not-nerdy.) The whole book swore and swore and swore like a swearing sailor, and then every other word was \"Spanglish\". I don't speak Spanglish OR Spanish, so I was lost sometimes. I chose the unfortunate time to read this book to correspond with Dale (my Spanish speaking husband) being out of town. Not that it was worth following him around while I was reading the book, asking every 30 seconds for him to translate something. Plus, probably over half of the Spanglish parts were Spanish curse words anyways. And my husband always tickles me when I swear. (And I tend to pee my pants a little whenever he tickles me.) It just wasn't that funny. Or compelling. How come the author got a Pulitzer Prize? I have NO IDEA. I think it is like the Emporer's New Clothes, where one smart person said it was good, so everyone else said it was good too, not wanting to seem like they misunderstood it. Then smarter and smarter people kept jumping on the bandwagon, trying to outdo each other in their love of the book, until some ACTUALLY AWARDED HIM A PULITZER PRIZE. I bet the author is laughing at how dumb everyone is. I am the smart kid watching the parade who points out that the emporer is butt naked. Ha, ha. I hoped this book would grow on me, but I never came around. I tried. I mean, my cat's name is Oscar, so I wanted to like it. But it was lame. Sorry, author dude. ...more There was a lot about this novel that I liked, and a lot that I disliked. I know from other reviews that what -I- got out of the book was quite different than what other people got out of it. The biggest feeling I had was anger that our world does this to people (Oscar, that is). It shames me. Call me a dreamer if you wish, but I think that if we treated our fellow man better, and didn't ridicule him or her for no good purpose, all of us would be better for it. Maybe more kids would escape the gr There was a lot about this novel that I liked, and a lot that I disliked. I know from other reviews that what -I- got out of the book was quite different than what other people got out of it. The biggest feeling I had was anger that our world does this to people (Oscar, that is). It shames me. Call me a dreamer if you wish, but I think that if we treated our fellow man better, and didn't ridicule him or her for no good purpose, all of us would be better for it. Maybe more kids would escape the grist-mill of adolescence with some semblance of pride and self-worth. Probably not the message of the book, but what the hell. ...more Great story. Junot Diaz really knows how to captivate an audience! Personally, I enjoyed the historical footnotes. I don't know much about Dominican history so I was interested to read about the dictator Trujillo and other Dominican historical figures. Also, I think the author did a good job in portraying how prevalent colourism is in the Dominican Republic. I did not like the excessive use of the n-word and my Spanish isn't good enough to understand the copious amount of Spanish phrases in the b Great story. Junot Diaz really knows how to captivate an audience! Personally, I enjoyed the historical footnotes. I don't know much about Dominican history so I was interested to read about the dictator Trujillo and other Dominican historical figures. Also, I think the author did a good job in portraying how prevalent colourism is in the Dominican Republic. I did not like the excessive use of the n-word and my Spanish isn't good enough to understand the copious amount of Spanish phrases in the book. Overall, I really enjoyed the story. ...more", "Title": "The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao"},
