{"Comments": "<+++>Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything</+++>This was an interesting book. I say it was interesting because I started liking it (<---B>a lot</---B>) when I first read it, as time passed I liked it less and less. In that way I call it a candy book, tastes good at first but leaves you worse off for reading it. In my opinion, there are two problems with the book: First, Stephen Dubner comes across as a sycophant. Way to much of the book is spent praising Levitt. Secondly, I was disappointed in the lack of detail provided about Livitt's hypothesis. I wante This was an interesting book. I say it was interesting because I started liking it (a lot) when I first read it, as time passed I liked it less and less. In that way I call it a candy book, tastes good at first but leaves you worse off for reading it. In my opinion, there are two problems with the book: First, Stephen Dubner comes across as a sycophant. Way to much of the book is spent praising Levitt. Secondly, I was disappointed in the lack of detail provided about Livitt's hypothesis.<---F> I wanted more</---F>. It was like reading War and Peace and discovering that you read the abridged version and in fact the book wasn't 100 pages long. This disappointment may have come from my engineering background and my strong desire to really understand economics. This book didn't offer any of that, only a titillating glimpse of the economics. In some regards one may think my single start rating is to harsh. As mind candy this book was quite good. I did enjoy reading it at the time. Whats more, it did encourage me to study real economics. I am currently enrolled in a masters program in economics and this book did play a very small roll in that decision process. However, as I learn more about economics I realize how shallow the book in fact was. While this is not the forum for a comprehensive review of the topics presented in the book, or an analysis of how good the economics in Freekanomics are, a review in \"Journal of Economic Literature (Vol XLV, Dec. 2007 pp 973)\" quotes Livitt as saying: \"There is no question I have written some ridiculous papers.\" The article then goes on to quote a paper by Noam Scheibler(2007) describing Livitt's comparing some of his papers to the fashion industry. \"Sometimes you write papers and they're less about the actual result, more about your vision of how you think the profession should be. And so I think some of my most ridiculous papers actually fall in the high-fashion category.\" ...more Yes, zero stars. There is one segment of this book that reports use of a dataset I know very well -- the Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS) data. From what details they put into the book, it's fairly clear that the researchers did not research the reliability of the data elements they chose to use from FARS. In particular, their analysis rests on the ability to identify uninjured children in vehicles that were involved in fatal crashes. FARS has data elements for this,<---M> but the reliability Yes</---M>, zero stars. There is one segment of this book that reports use of a dataset I know very well -- the Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS) data. From what details they put into the book, it's fairly clear that the researchers did not research the reliability of the data elements they chose to use from FARS. In particular, their analysis rests on the ability to identify uninjured children in vehicles that were involved in fatal crashes. FARS has data elements for this, but the reliability of the data in those data elements is suspect at best. If you go back beyond around 2002's data, you are missing quite a bit of data. And the data errors are not randomly distributed. In other words, it's not a usable dataset for the purpose it was put to. It's a rookie mistake. We all make them from time to time. But, when you are going out on a limb and finding results that directly contradict the \"prevailing wisdom\" I believe you have a responsibility to check your work thoroughly and not just rely on peer review -- especially if you submit your work to publications where the reviewers are likely to share your ignorance on a particular data set. In short, the way the child safety seat data were handled in this body of work makes me suspect that the entire work is similarly filled with errors that are understandable in a novice, but inexcusable in someone promoting himself as a \"rogue\" anything. ...more Sure, this book was a compelling read that offered us all some great amo for cocktail party conversation. But ultimately I think most of what Leavitt claims is crap. He dodges accoutability with the disclaimer about his book NOT being a scholarly work, but then goes on to drop statistics, theories and expert opinions. These assertions laid, he doesn't provide readers with enough information to critically examine his perspectives. Ultimately I have a problem with the unquestioned, unaccoutable rol Sure, this book was a compelling read that offered us all some great amo for cocktail party conversation. But ultimately I think most of what Leavitt claims is crap. He dodges accoutability with the disclaimer about his book NOT being a scholarly work, but then goes on to drop statistics, theories and expert opinions. These assertions laid, he doesn't provide readers with enough information to critically examine his perspectives. Ultimately I have a problem with the unquestioned, unaccoutable role of the public intellectual. Leavitt dances around with his PhD on his sleeve, but is never subject to peer review or any sort of academic criticism. I think it's irresponsible. ...more I loved this book, though I think the title is a bit misleading. It's not really about economics. In fact, he's showing you what interesting things you can discover when you apply statistical analysis to problems where you wouldn't normally think of using it. I use statistical methods a fair amount in my own work, so I found it particularly interesting. The most startling and thought-provoking example is definitely the unexpected reduction in US urban crime that occurred towards the end of the 2 I loved this book, though I think the title is a bit misleading. It's not really about economics. In fact, he's showing you what interesting things you can discover when you apply statistical analysis to problems where you wouldn't normally think of using it. I use statistical methods a fair amount in my own work, so I found it particularly interesting. The most startling and thought-provoking example is definitely the unexpected reduction in US urban crime that occurred towards the end of the 20th century. Crime rates had been rising for decades, and people were really worried about what would happen if the trend continued. Then, suddenly, they peaked and started to decline. Why? There were a bunch of theories, all of them superficially plausible. Levitt crunched the numbers, to see what proportion of the variance could be ascribed to the different factors. This is a completely standard technique; it just hadn't been used here before. He came to the conclusion that the single most important factor, by far, was the ready availability of abortion that started to come in after Roe v Wade . Other things, like more resources for policing and tougher sentencing policies, probably helped, but not nearly as much. I didn't at all get the impression that he had been expecting this result from the start, and just wanted to prove his point. He processed the data, and went where the numbers led him. That's how you're supposed to do science. The clincher, at least as far as I was concerned, was the fact that crime statistics peaked at different points in different states, the peaks correlating very well with the dates when each state started making abortion available. States that brought it in early had correspondingly early peaks in their crime rates. It's hard to see how that could happen if Levitt's explanation weren't correct. I am surprised that there hasn't been more discussion of Levitt's findings in the political world. Maybe it's just regarded as too hot to handle. But if Levitt is right, and at the moment I would say it's up to his critics to explain why he isn't, then pro-life campaigners would seem be heading in a very unfortunate direction. ...more Jesus H Tittyfucking Christ on a bike! Could these two tossers be any more smarmy and self indulgent? Levitt and Dubner and probably the kind of smart arse nerds who snigger at you because you don't understand linux but sneer at you because you've actually spoken to a woman. This book is much like the Emperor's New Clothes, people are so scared about being left out if they don't like or understand it because some sandal wearing hippy in the Guardian said it's 'This year's Das Capital' or some su Jesus H Tittyfucking Christ on a bike! Could these two tossers be any more smarmy and self indulgent? Levitt and Dubner and probably the kind of smart arse nerds who snigger at you because you don't understand linux but sneer at you because you've actually spoken to a woman. This book is much like the Emperor's New Clothes, people are so scared about being left out if they don't like or understand it because some sandal wearing hippy in the Guardian said it's 'This year's Das Capital' or some such bollocks that they feel compelled to join some sort of unspoken club where they all jizz themselves silly over a book that effectively is 300+ pages of pure condescension. Only buy this book if a facist regime ever seizes control of your country and instigates a book burning policy. ...more I guess some people don't like this book because it's not centered around one theme. Instead, it's more about the seemingly diffuse academic work of one of the authors <---A>Steven D. Levitt</---A> (the other author is a journalist, Stephen J. Dubner). Levitt is something of an economist but more like a social scientist using the tools of Microeconomics applied to other fields that happen to catch his interest (often having something to do with cheating, corruption, crime, etc.). In the back of the book he m I guess some people don't like this book because it's not centered around one theme. Instead, it's more about the seemingly diffuse academic work of one of the authors Steven D. Levitt (the other author is a journalist, Stephen J. Dubner). Levitt is something of an economist but more like a social scientist using the tools of Microeconomics applied to other fields that happen to catch his interest (often having something to do with cheating, corruption, crime, etc.). In the back of the book he mentions how he considers himself a student of Thomas Schelling who is kind of like the father of Game Theory (strategy theory?), except much more of a 'man of ideas' than what one might think of when one thinks about game theory today, which is much more mathematical. Anyway, as for the book itself, I thought it was really great. I really like what Levitt is doing as far as using the tools of Microeconomics in other fields. One of my intellectual heroes (I only have a few) is Kenneth Waltz who did the exact same thing in the field of International Relations in the '70's and wrote the seminal book The Theory of International Politics , which pretty much the single-handedly invented defensive (neo) realism. More generally, I think Economics is probably the most formalized of the social sciences and the one to which others should esteem. A lot of the Political Science field concerned with both voter behavior and how legislatures work is now pretty formalized as well, and, I, for one, think this is a good thing. I don't see how anyone could think it's not (good) unless they a)think the scientific method cannot be used to analyze human behavior; or b)have a visceral aversion to mathematical languages. Actually, I am one of the latter, but I, at least, see the value in having a formalized language to work with. As for the book itself, there's some maybe-controversial things in there like Levitt did some work that showed that the legalization of abortion in the U.S. (Roe v. Wade) was one of the main reasons that crime in the U.S. dropped in the '90's and continues at the same rates today. He stands behind it pretty hardily though and it doesn't seem like he has a moral agenda at all. Some might argue that the best writers are those who are best able to disguise their moral agenda, but considering he writes about all kinds of not-very-serious things like how sumo wrestling in Japan is probably corrupt as far as matches g,o and there's stuff in there about how real estate agents sell their houses for more than they sell their customers' houses (which, may or may not be surprising), I really don't think he has a hidden pro-life agenda. Anyway, there's a bunch of stuff in there (the book), hence the 'freak' in Freakonomics. It's well-written. It's not dry. It's written for a lay audience. I recommend it. Read it and feel the power of social science! ;-) ...more I assumed Freakonomics would be a book that used statistics to debunk various societal hysterias and fearmongering in a semi-humorous way. I quickly realized what I was in for when early in the book when the authors gave their background as Harvard Jews and profiled a guy that infiltrated the KKK for the ADL. The story sounds at least partially made up. It then jumped into predictable white guilt inducing trash and goes into mental contortions using \"data\" and sociological explanations for black I assumed Freakonomics would be a book that used statistics to debunk various societal hysterias and fearmongering in a semi-humorous way. I quickly realized what I was in for when early in the book when the authors gave their background as Harvard Jews and profiled a guy that infiltrated the KKK for the ADL. The story sounds at least partially made up. It then jumped into predictable white guilt inducing trash and goes into mental contortions using \"data\" and sociological explanations for black criminality and low IQ scores. The writers of this book are also obsessively pro-Abortion. The only surprise was they used statistics to show you are much more likely to die from an automobile or a swimming pool than a gun. This book would probably appeal to upper middle class liberals who like to consider themselves clever and politically astute from their isolated armchairs. For me Freakonomics was a big load of garbage. ...more Well,this is the most terrible book I have ever seen,it was too terrible to read.It\u2019s so terrible that I just want to burn it as fast as I can,and it cost me 58RMB.That was 58RMB,it was to expensive for me to afford.At first.I thought it was a good book,and I spend all my money on this book.And I was pretty annoyed about this I don\u2019t have any other money for my breakfast,lunch,and even dinner.I haven\u2019t drink juice for the whole year.Reading this is a waste of time,no one want to see this book ag Well,this is the most terrible book I have ever seen,it was too terrible to read.It\u2019s so terrible that I just want to burn it as fast as I can,and it cost me 58RMB.That was 58RMB,it was to expensive for me to afford.At first.I thought it was a good book,and I spend all my money on this book.And I was pretty annoyed about this I don\u2019t have any other money for my breakfast,lunch,and even dinner.I haven\u2019t drink juice for the whole year.Reading this is a waste of time,no one want to see this book again.It was just rubbish,and smelly book.It tells my nothing.I even want to sell this to the writer,and ask to return my money and some extra.It cost me too much time,and too much money on it.I prefer to see a movie instead!!! ...more The most interesting part of this book was the introduction. Sad, but true. Four stars for presentation. The prose is nearly invisible, which I suppose in this genre is preferable to the alternative. And the content is mildly interesting, in a \"Huh. Wouldja look at that\" sort of way, as though you saw a duck waddling through your back yard with jam on its head. But insofar as it's meant to be the vehicle for a larger framework for viewing the world, this book is old news. You mean shit's connected The most interesting part of this book was the introduction. Sad, but true. Four stars for presentation. The prose is nearly invisible, which I suppose in this genre is preferable to the alternative. And the content is mildly interesting, in a \"Huh. Wouldja look at that\" sort of way, as though you saw a duck waddling through your back yard with jam on its head. But insofar as it's meant to be the vehicle for a larger framework for viewing the world, this book is old news. You mean shit's connected in weird, roundabout ways? Get out. Conventional wisdom is often wrong ? Superficial analyses are lazy and innacurate? My head...is spinning. Read some good poetry, you hipster fucks. ...more The \"experts are evil, have agendas, will trick you\" talk got old real fast, especially when points are later being backed up with experts research. There's not enough discussion on the data itself, no distinction between quantitative and qualitative, and not enough discussion on the many flaws of data and how we analyze it. Pretty interesting how much he dislikes criminologists but then (if I remember correctly), only mentions the same one or two names over and over when giving examples of crim The \"experts are evil, have agendas, will trick you\" talk got old real fast, especially when points are later being backed up with experts research. There's not enough discussion on the data itself, no distinction between quantitative and qualitative, and not enough discussion on the many flaws of data and how we analyze it. Pretty interesting how much he dislikes criminologists but then (if I remember correctly), only mentions the same one or two names over and over when giving examples of criminologists that had agendas/tricked the public. Also the fact that the entire book, and the issues, feels very simplified. Actually the author puts it best himself: \"The typical parenting expert, like experts in other fields, is prone to sound exceedingly sure of himself. An expert doesn\u2019t so much argue the various sides of an issue, as plant his flag firmly on one side. That\u2019s because an expert who\u2019s argument reeks of restraint or nuance often doesn\u2019t get much attention. An expert must be bold if he hopes to alchemise (?) his homespun theory into conventional wisdom.\" This is often how I perceived the book to be written, very simplified, without enough nuance or room for possible explanations - only one right answer. I didn't like how the book was written, how the topics where dealt with, and had a hard time taking anything seriously after all of the self-admiration and the repeated \"all experts have agendas (except for us)\" talk in every chapter. ...more Yeah, this isn't 'rogue economics'. This is sociology. It's not a new discipline. And this is really spurious sociology that wouldn't pass muster in academia, so Levitt published it for public consumption. I found this audiobook unbearable. I turned it off halfway through and listened to the public radio pledge drive instead. Everything I hate about popular science - alternating between over-simplified, patronising, naive or simply annoying, but worst of all, blatantly refusing to take account of the political and social implications of its findings, and being proud of it. Verbose, repetitive, contradictory: a book of 200-pages that could be condensed to 3-5 pages. Titles that vary from scintillating to insulting, yet are followed by a chapter that doesn't support the title bar. Anecdotal stories, mistaken for data or hypothesis. Interpretations and hypotheses are drawn from data that could still be interpreted in multiple ways. The book claims that it will link the unexpected, but frankly, links the obvious, with many \"well duh\" moments. Needless generations of lis Verbose, repetitive, contradictory: a book of 200-pages that could be condensed to 3-5 pages. Titles that vary from scintillating to insulting, yet are followed by a chapter that doesn't support the title bar. Anecdotal stories, mistaken for data or hypothesis. Interpretations and hypotheses are drawn from data that could still be interpreted in multiple ways. The book claims that it will link the unexpected, but frankly, links the obvious, with many \"well duh\" moments. Needless generations of lists that help bulk out the book, but provide little further benefit for study. Each chapter begins with unnecessary aggrandisement of the author for the statistician, that jars the flow of the book. Overall, a good demonstration of why \"social sciences\" are in no way close to being \"science\", and instead should be termed social philosophy. ...more I went all Fahrenheit 451 on this one. This book is little more than Stephen Dubner jerking off Steven Levitt, but that's not why it's a 1-star read. here's why: \"Women's rights advocates... have hyped the incidence of sexual assault, claiming that one in three American women will in her lifetime be a victim of rape or attempted rape. (The actual figure is more like one in eight-but the advocates know it would take a callous person to dispute their claim.)\" In the Notes for this chapter: \"The 2002 statistics from the National Crime Surv This book is little more than Stephen Dubner jerking off Steven Levitt, but that's not why it's a 1-star read. here's why: \"Women's rights advocates... have hyped the incidence of sexual assault, claiming that one in three American women will in her lifetime be a victim of rape or attempted rape. (The actual figure is more like one in eight-but the advocates know it would take a callous person to dispute their claim.)\" In the Notes for this chapter: \"The 2002 statistics from the National Crime Survey, which is designed to elicit honest responses, suggests that the lifetime risk of a woman's being the victim of unwanted sexual activity or attempted unwanted sexual activity is one in eight[.]\" Here, in a nutshell, is how the National Crime VICTIMIZATION Survey collects information on rape: Every six months, they ask everyone over 12 in a bunch of houses questions like: \"41a. (Other than any incidents already mentioned,) has anyone attacked or threatened you in any of these ways - (e) Any rape, attempted rape or other type of sexual attack -\" Followed up later with: \"29c. You mentioned rape. Do you mean forced or coerced sexual intercourse?\" It doesn't take a rocket scientist to see the flaws in the NCVS's methodology here. And to use it to glibly accuse \"women's rights advocates\" of somehow manipulating a kowtowed public is incredibly obnoxious. While I'd guess that Levitt might be right more often than wrong, it's not worth his smug, self-satisfied style. I recommend 'Bad Science' by Ben Goldacre. Similar schtick with substance instead of 'hype'. ...more If I could give this book less then one star I would. I tried so very hard to finish reading this book full of BS facts but eventually got so tired of hearing things that just are not true but the author \"claims\" to be fact, that I quit reading it. I almost finished but couldn't do it in the end. Some of the things the author talks about seem like they could be truths but the majority of it is not. Don't waste your time. Update: I don't recall the specifics as this was over a year ago that I \"at If I could give this book less then one star I would. I tried so very hard to finish reading this book full of BS facts but eventually got so tired of hearing things that just are not true but the author \"claims\" to be fact, that I quit reading it. I almost finished but couldn't do it in the end. Some of the things the author talks about seem like they could be truths but the majority of it is not. Don't waste your time. Update: I don't recall the specifics as this was over a year ago that I \"attempted\" to read the book. I don't remember how far I got through it before I stopped reading. I can recall that many of the data and ideas presented about crime statistics and correlations were not accurate. The book put claims on cause and effect in regards to violent crime. I knew that the correlations were no more then the Authors conclusion based on one view of statistical data use. The use of statistics is often (many times not on purpose) biased. I have studied and been in law enforcement since 1990 and have worked serious felony level crimes since 1999. I know from experience and studies that some of the ideas he presented as \"fact\" were not fact but more of an opinion that can be easily concluded when someone does not look at the entire data of violent crimes. ...more Honestly not something I would pick up if it wasn't for school. I didn't enjoy this book. It dragged on where it didn't need to and left me in the dust at times. Over all, don't read it unless you have to. Sheer Rubbish. This is an awful book, yes I read the whole thing, like bitter medicine to a toddler, and had to see what the fuss was about. This Amazon review nails it. Here's my review/rant. I'm reading this is 2012, maybe the hype in 2005 was different and people ate this kind of stuff up, even then I don't think we were that gullible at this time. There were good social science/stats books out there. This book pales in comparison to the works of Malcolm Gladwell and others. Levitt is making Sheer Rubbish. This is an awful book, yes I read the whole thing, like bitter medicine to a toddler, and had to see what the fuss was about. This Amazon review nails it. Here's my review/rant. I'm reading this is 2012, maybe the hype in 2005 was different and people ate this kind of stuff up, even then I don't think we were that gullible at this time. There were good social science/stats books out there. This book pales in comparison to the works of Malcolm Gladwell and others. Levitt is making something out of nothing from strange stories he heard, now he's stitching them together suggesting there's a *GASP* hidden side to everything. Because the KKK spoke in code, real estate listings are supposedly in code, and we're all being duped into spending more for our house because of the secret speak between realtors! How about consumers don't just read a real estate listings but check a place out before making the biggest purchase of their lives, one could argue there's secret speak in every industry. For his final chapter (which is in the middle of the book) Levitt's grand finale, Black people name their children differently to White people! The second half of the book is blog posts from their blog more atrocious reading from these ranting lunatics. There's no appeal to science, Levitt is throwing a lot of his own opinion, and making wild estimations and bringing up even wilder conclusions. It's pretty obvious Levitt is a shrewd businessman, he's not just writing books, but has a well to do following with his blog, radio station and yes even movie! This is \"easy to consume\" garbage for the masses. ...more In addition to allowing 1/2 stars, Goodreads really needs an \"abandoned book\" shelf. I had to abandon ship on this one, I guess I'm too liberal/free thinking/whateveryoucallit to think that teacher's unions are bad, and if only poor black women could get abortions we'd be safer after dark. I didn't stick around for the rest. The Basics: Freakonomics isn\u2019t really about any one thing, which makes it a bit hard to summarize. In essence, it\u2019s economist Steven Levitt playing around with economic principles and basic statistical analysis to examine various cultural trends and phenomena. He tackles a variety of questions, from whether or not sumo wrestlers cheat (they do) to whether or not a child\u2019s name determines his success (it doesn\u2019t). He does this all through examining statistics and data, trying to find facts to back The Basics: Freakonomics isn\u2019t really about any one thing, which makes it a bit hard to summarize. In essence, it\u2019s economist Steven Levitt playing around with economic principles and basic statistical analysis to examine various cultural trends and phenomena. He tackles a variety of questions, from whether or not sumo wrestlers cheat (they do) to whether or not a child\u2019s name determines his success (it doesn\u2019t). He does this all through examining statistics and data, trying to find facts to back up various assertions rather than relying on conventional wisdom. The Good: As a person who is sick of the inability of most people to have a rational discourse on any even vaguely politicized topic, and a self-proclaimed skeptic, it\u2019s nice to read anyone who endorses looking at hard data to make judgments about possibly controversial issues. Levitt does a nice job of not only proclaiming the advantages of this sort of rational outlook, but also of showing that when you actually examine the data, you sometimes get surprising results. Furthermore, he takes the time to point out that there is a difference between correlation and causation, and that many people mistake one for the other. Again, a nice touch. The actual questions that Levitt asks are all fairly interesting, though some will appeal to certain readers more than others. In addition to cheating sumotori and strange names, Levitt also examines cheating teachers, the economics of crack dealers, and the effect of abortion on crime. Crime, in point of fact, seems to be Levitt\u2019s greatest interest, and I wonder if he might not have been better served by writing an entire book on the relationship between economics and crime, as opposed to trying to touch on a number of different subjects that are all largely unrelated. It might have made for a tighter, more focused book. The writing is solid; simple and easy, but solid. Despite being a book about economics, it\u2019s not a terribly dense read, as witnessed by the fact that I finished it off in about two days. Granted, it was two days of heavy reading, but it was still two days. The Bad: For a book that\u2019s so gung ho about statistics, there aren\u2019t many statistics in here. Levitt claims that the numbers back up his research, but he rarely provides the data itself, which makes it difficult to tell how much he might be manipulating statistics to serve his own ends. It makes the book seem like it\u2019s been dumbed down for the plebian masses, which will be very frustrating to any intelligent reader who wants to look at Levitt\u2019s data themselves. Any reader who doesn\u2019t feel like reading the numbers can do what most of us did in undergrad\u2014skip the numbers sections. It\u2019s just sloppy; I can\u2019t imagine Levitt would do this in a formal economics paper. The book also lacks much in the way of an unifying theme, a problem that is acknowledged within the text itself; that isn\u2019t only sad, it\u2019s sloppy. I doubt that a writer of Dubner\u2019s skill and an economist of Levitt\u2019s apparent genius (more on that below) are totally incapable of thinking of and describing some kind of unifying theme throughout this work. It just smacks of laziness, even more so when there\u2019s a half-hearted \u201cwell, I guess you could say it\u2019s this\u2026\u201d sort of thing in the epilogue. Again, I have trouble imagining that Levitt would submit a paper that was this disjointed to a serious economic publication; why should the general public be treated less seriously? The Ugly: The self-aggrandizement. Oh, the self-aggrandizement. Every chapter is preceded by excerpts from an article about Levitt, which all tell us what a brilliant and unconventional economist this man is. In the introduction, we\u2019re told that he really wasn\u2019t that interested in writing a book, unless he got to work with this wonderful journalist who had written an article about him earlier. The cover promises that we will be \u201cdazzled\u201d by a \u201crogue economist\u201d who explains \u201cthe hidden side of everything.\u201d For all of this talk of brilliance and dazzling explanations, the book doesn\u2019t seem that brilliant. It seems like a transcript of some interesting dinner conversation with a smart guy, the sort that makes you go home and think, \u201chey, this stuff is interesting, I ought to go pick up a book about it.\u201d Of course, the problem here is that you\u2019ve already picked up the book. The fact that Levitt wasn\u2019t that interested in writing a book in the first place is telling; this book feels like something written by a person who needed to get the work done, but really wasn\u2019t engaged in what he was doing. Maybe he should have waited until he was a little more motivated. ...more Freakonomics explores the hidden side of everything. If morality describes the ideal world, then economics describes the actual world. Further, Freakonomics studies incentives and how different people in different professions respond. Some of the case studies include bagel salesmen, sumo wrestlers, public school teachers, crack cocaine dealers and parents. This is a smart, fun book; but it's not for everyone. Through a high nerd prospective, the authors deliver a slide rule and pocket protector Freakonomics explores the hidden side of everything. If morality describes the ideal world, then economics describes the actual world. Further, Freakonomics studies incentives and how different people in different professions respond. Some of the case studies include bagel salesmen, sumo wrestlers, public school teachers, crack cocaine dealers and parents. This is a smart, fun book; but it's not for everyone. Through a high nerd prospective, the authors deliver a slide rule and pocket protector observation of some controversial subjects. ...more complete bollocks, un-referenced 'studies' being used to back up their meandering and un thought out claims. should've been able to tell by the cover what type of 'book' this was. This book is a good example of garbage in, garbage out. The demonstration of critical thinking is good on a superficial level. But that it where the good stuff ends. The background facts used to perform their logical analyses suffer from gaps in relevant facts to downright misinformation. Even worse is the impression given that the background research is astonishingly thorough and accurate. It is not. Don't take their word for it on anything. A quick Google search yields rebuttals from true expe This book is a good example of garbage in, garbage out. The demonstration of critical thinking is good on a superficial level. But that it where the good stuff ends. The background facts used to perform their logical analyses suffer from gaps in relevant facts to downright misinformation. Even worse is the impression given that the background research is astonishingly thorough and accurate. It is not. Don't take their word for it on anything. A quick Google search yields rebuttals from true experts in the various fields that effectively point out flaws in their quotes, facts, and logic. I love that they promote the ideas of critical thinking. I love that they promote the idea of thorough research and questioning the status quo. I love that they promote use of numbers and statistics to explore ideas in an attempt to find the truth. But I wish that they were providing as good of a demonstration of the principles as they claim to be. Their conclusions are then presented as irrefutable, as if they are a magic bullet of the truth, rather than a heartfelt (presumably) effort at finding truth, subject to revision based on refined thought or background research. And then there is the assignment of cause to correlation...... In at least some cases, I am not convinced that it is truth that they are after so much as their own agenda (on oh so many levels). Do as they say but better than they do! ...more I could not finish this book. It made me cringe twice on each of the hundred odd pages that I did force myself to read. Would I recommend this book to you? If you don't know how people use statistics to detect fraud, go ahead and read this book. You will find it to be entertaining and informative. On the other hand, if you feel strongly about the difference between correlation and causality and already know what, say, Benford's law is, spare yourself the horror. You will find yourself reaching fo I could not finish this book. It made me cringe twice on each of the hundred odd pages that I did force myself to read. Would I recommend this book to you? If you don't know how people use statistics to detect fraud, go ahead and read this book. You will find it to be entertaining and informative. On the other hand, if you feel strongly about the difference between correlation and causality and already know what, say, Benford's law is, spare yourself the horror. You will find yourself reaching for the wall (to bang your head on) by page 10. Also, the title is a bit misleading. This book is NOT about economics. ...more The apt name would have been F**konomics, for the book hovers around the passing of abortion bill in USA. How can somebody write a book of 200 pages out of nothing is a mystery to me. What intrigues me more is that many newspapers had wrote great things about this book, a perfect case of hype creating a best seller. All gas no substance. And nothing to do with economics rather than some stupid black-white demographics and some obvious facts. Thank God, I'm through with this. This writer's name is totally a rubbish. Only a freak will have this name,from that,we can easily learn that the parents of the writer are stupid jerks,too.So sure that the family of him are all goddam stupids actually.That's why he becomes a unsuccessful writer.I wondered if why he isn't an asshole!actually he is,only that we don't admit.opps,it'ts truly a sad story.also,the books he wrote makes me sick.An animal will write a book like him actually. This book is grueling. I give up. I'm an artist, a designer, and a business owner. I've been thinking abstractly and questioning things my entire life. Perhaps I've been blessed to have been brought up by a family and community of teachers always urging me to challenge my thinking. This mode of thinking is not unique to me and I find the writing style incredibly intolerable to follow. It's as if he just wrote out his thoughts as they were coming to him with no clear outline. I am very much in favo This book is grueling. I give up. I'm an artist, a designer, and a business owner. I've been thinking abstractly and questioning things my entire life. Perhaps I've been blessed to have been brought up by a family and community of teachers always urging me to challenge my thinking. This mode of thinking is not unique to me and I find the writing style incredibly intolerable to follow. It's as if he just wrote out his thoughts as they were coming to him with no clear outline. I am very much in favor of people who get to the point, and there seems to be no point. Not only that, but he goes about making these correlations using his own data and methods of thinking. The idea that you have to look at unrelated factors to determine actual causes is great, but what about other causes he isn't presenting? The author is in fact doing exactly what he's aiming to expose, but people are so wowed by it because it's presented in an unusual way... Yuck. Not convinced this is as \"genius\" and \"amazing\" as the Wall Street Journal review boasts on the cover. I hate leaving books unfinished but I just can not get in to this. ...more As the old joke goes, the questions in economics exams are the same every year; only the answers change. (re-reading in prep for the super-freaks) I would give this less than one star if it were possible!<---C>Steven D. Levitt</---C><+++>Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything</+++>", "Title": "Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything"},
