{"Comments": "Rarely am I left speechless,<---M> I usually have plenty to say</---M>, but as I reflected on this novel, I realized there would be no surefire way to describe this book.<---F> It is a complete conundrum</---F>. Readers will either love or hate this book, I don\u2019t think it there is much of a middle road with this one. It will speak to those with similar personal experiences. I enjoyed the format. It gives the reader snapshots of Dex and Em\u2019s life, like flipping through a stack of polaroids, just a flash of what was going Rarely am I left speechless, I usually have plenty to say, but as I reflected on this novel, I realized there would be no surefire way to describe this book. It is a complete conundrum. Readers will either love or hate this book, I don\u2019t think it there is much of a middle road with this one. It will speak to those with similar personal experiences. I enjoyed the format. It gives the reader snapshots of Dex and Em\u2019s life, like flipping through a stack of polaroids, just a flash of what was going on at a particular time. Picking the same day established a sequence and highlighted that life and circumstances can change so quickly at times, or not change at all as was in Em\u2019s case when two days start exactly the same. I think this was an intelligent way to approach a story that spans 20 years. We don\u2019t really need a full depiction of every single event in their lives to have a sense of what they are going through. Characterization was excellent. Dex and Em quickly became real in my mind, as if I was peeking into the lives of a couple of friends, or reading their journal pages. I too quickly began to know what Emma would or would not like just as Dex did. The characters were genuine. Some reviews say that they were stereotypical\u2026but I find that some people latch onto stereotypes, it helps them define themselves. I feel this is what Emma was doing in her youth with her political stances and thus why they are not as important as she grows older. So are they really stereotypical characters? Or are they just portraying their ideal personas as so many people do? I find that comparisons to When Harry met Sally fall short. I understand the reasons for the comparisons in that they are both about friends that seem to circle back every few years and make sarcastic quips to one another. But I feel like it ends there. To me, this is more of a modernized Wuthering Heights. The author\u2019s ability to write from a woman\u2019s POV is refreshing. I am hesitant when I read something written by a man, trying to sound like a woman. I generally feel like it\u2019s not authentic,like there is something off. Not with this book. Em thought the way I would think, said things that I would say. In the end, this novel deeply affected me. I have not read something that has touched me this much in some time. It spoke to me completely as I was tortured by my own Dex in my youth and early adulthood. The emotions are portrayed as they should be; the frustration, the yearning are, from my perspective, completely legitimate. I found myself feeling like I was reading bits and pieces of my own story. I had knots in my stomach through most of the book and after finishing this at 1 am this morning, I could do nothing but stare at the ceiling and walls, absorbing what I had read, tearing it apart mentally, and extracting lessons from it to be applied in life. That, for me, is the mark of a wonderful novel, reading that reaches into your soul and touches your heart, writing that moves you to feel. ...more THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS!!! (I just copied this from my blog...and, didn't realize until it was pointed out to me (below) that I didn't copy the whole thing sorry!) Please be warned this blog post contains SPOILERS for the following books: <+++>One Day</+++>, Message in a Bottle, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, The Lord of the Rings, The Way We Were, A Walk to Remember, Atonement, Bridges of Madison County, The Time Travelers Wife, The English Patient This is the first book that is so beautiful tha THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS!!! (I just copied this from my blog...and, didn't realize until it was pointed out to me (below) that I didn't copy the whole thing sorry!) Please be warned this blog post contains SPOILERS for the following books: <+++>One Day</+++>, Message in a Bottle, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, The Lord of the Rings, The Way We Were, A Walk to Remember, Atonement, Bridges of Madison County, The Time Travelers Wife, The English Patient This is the first book that is so beautiful that I want to quote it and keep it with me, and, yet I hate it...I mean seriously hate it! I am sorry I read it, if I hadn't bought it on the Nook I'd burn it. I don't want to read anymore books by this author just incase he tricks me again! I want to...I am crying...shame on <---A>David Nicholls</---A>...*insert cuss-words here* And, no I WILL NOT be watching the movie...seriously! Yes, I hated the ending that much, not since Atonement have I felt this emotionally cheated. <---C>Emma Morley</---C> dies and no, I, in no way, saw that coming. Why didn't I see that coming because this book One Day by David Nicholls (a name that will be seared in my brain so I don't slip up and buy one of his books again) was not advertised as a book in the same vain as Message in a Bottle . See, the thing is I hate when books have needless death and dying. I hate books that intentionally kill off characters you love (think the Weasley twin in HP7 ) to make you cry, not to propel the plot along. And, in this book, after reading about 360 pages of a wonderfully tormented friendship on the verge of something more I was relating to the characters, to the places (I mean Emma has a flat in Earl's Court, really, Earl's Court) and I was relating to the hurt and desire of wanting your best friend...hmm...I was relating soooo much, that when Emma died I felt like a friend died and my breathing became erratic and my world darkened. Frankly, if I'd known this was going to happen, I wouldn't have read the book as I do not read such books. And, that's just it...I feel that Mr. Nicholls had Emma die towards the end (because yes, there's still like 30ish pages after her death...I don't know why...I suppose so you can short out your Nook crying while reading) because that was the ending no one expected. This is what I feel Nicholas Sparks, who is on my banned book list did with Message in a Bottle and what I feel Ian McEwan did in Atonement (what a shame the ending of that was!) and what I feel The Time Travelers Wife was, I mean that book doesn't even adhere to the science of time-travel or the science it creates in the story (if you can...um...er...'meet' yourself, you can also 'save' yourself...I mean he even knew what was over there in the forest...gah!). I'm not into gimmicks and I am not into tricks while reading. I don't have to guess the ending and I don't have to see it coming, but I do have to feel, at the end, that the book and its characters led to the conclusion. I have, for many years, read books that use to death or separation to propel the plot. I was a little sad that Boromir died in Lord of the Rings , I was a little sad when Jaimie died in A Walk to Remember , and, I cried like someone died at the end of Bridges of Madison County (you know the part where all she has to do is get out of the truck and leave her whole life behind to be with the one she loves and she's there grabbing at the handle and you know she isn't going to do it, but you want her to, you really want her to), I don't mind that The English Patient dies, I don't mind that Hubbell and Katie never get together in The Way We Were . I understand weakness and I understand death when it is used in a proper way to drive home the major themes and symbols of a book or movie. Nicholls used Emma's death to do neither. I read a review on GoodReads (I read many reviews looking for closure and answers) that talked about how David Nicholls wrote a book that didn't really address any audience and therefore made a certain type of audience incredibly upset. This is true, maybe he didn't understand his audience. I know I'm all for learning about relationship mistakes in a work of fiction, I just don't need characters to die to do that. I also know that there are people who love this book, just like there are people who can't get enough of Nicholas Sparks. I have had enough of both. ...more Frankly, after reading a spoiler about the ending, I simply have no will to continue on, there is just no pay-off after enduring this depressing tale sprinkled with occasional one-liners. Granted, I am never opposed to taking a good dose of drama, but melodrama I detest. This story is about a man and a woman who one day come together as lovers, then break up, but stay connected. Their relationship is followed through the next 20 years by presenting just one day - July 15th - out of their lives. T Frankly, after reading a spoiler about the ending, I simply have no will to continue on, there is just no pay-off after enduring this depressing tale sprinkled with occasional one-liners. Granted, I am never opposed to taking a good dose of drama, but melodrama I detest. This story is about a man and a woman who one day come together as lovers, then break up, but stay connected. Their relationship is followed through the next 20 years by presenting just one day - July 15th - out of their lives. This is indeed a great premise (and technique), but I wish they were used on different characters and situations. Both Dexter and Emma are not likable enough for me to care to see how their relationship unfolds. I dislike watching Dexter waste his life on partying and hooking up and Emma - on pining over him for years. There is nothing remotely romantic, deep, or compelling about it IMO. I agree with one of the reviewers here who said that the author didn't quite know his target audience. One Day is neither a literary fiction (which can spin the star-crossed lovers theme in a meaningful way - see Atonement ), nor a light-hearted chick lit (some reviewers mistakenly compare this novel to the movie \"When Harry Met Sally\"). It is somewhere in the middle, which is, IMO, a decently written relationship melodrama, perfect examples of which are The Time Traveler's Wife and tear-jerkers by Nicholas Sparks , Jennifer Weiner , Jodi Picoult and the likes. But alas, this is not my favored genre. ...more Is love really all that difficult? Yes, yes it is. David Nicholls crafts a beautiful love story about two people who are so different that they really only have one thing in common: they are both mad for each other. The frustrating thing is though, that however much these two people love each other, they maintain a \"friends only\" status throughout most of the book. What starts out as a possible love affair after just graduating college, Emma and Dexter's chemistry and attraction falls through th Is love really all that difficult? Yes, yes it is. David Nicholls crafts a beautiful love story about two people who are so different that they really only have one thing in common: they are both mad for each other. The frustrating thing is though, that however much these two people love each other, they maintain a \"friends only\" status throughout most of the book. What starts out as a possible love affair after just graduating college, Emma and Dexter's chemistry and attraction falls through the cracks as the years pass. Distance, missed opportunities, and even a letter that never gets sent, are all obstacles that ultimately determine their romantic fate and and life that they may have led together when they were young. Each character experiences struggles, dysfunctional relationships, setbacks, and successes and eventually it is clear that life is passing them by because their true soul mate is not truly in their life. \"One Day\" offers laughs, tears, and insight and encourages to not limit yourself and if you truly want something, don't hold back. If you're in love, go for it. Missed opportunities are hard to overcome. Don't let the years go by in vain. Thanks David Nicholls for such a glorious, heartbreaking read. ...more Every moment with this book felt like a waste of my time. I've seen it all before: the ugly duckling pining after the rich asshole who could be transformed into a better man if he only realized that the right woman was right there in front of him. This plot is so well trod that I feel like there are hundreds of better examples of it that I could have been reading. And here is the thing, I love these kinds of stories as the size of my romance shelf can attest. But I hated these characters so much Every moment with this book felt like a waste of my time. I've seen it all before: the ugly duckling pining after the rich asshole who could be transformed into a better man if he only realized that the right woman was right there in front of him. This plot is so well trod that I feel like there are hundreds of better examples of it that I could have been reading. And here is the thing, I love these kinds of stories as the size of my romance shelf can attest. But I hated these characters so much that I couldn't root for them. And as to the ending, can I just say that I didn't like it the first time it happened in City of Angles , and I still didn't like it when Nicholls ripped it off. ...more Let's talk about death. Not death which is inevitably part of life, but death in fiction, where it is not inevitable at all. Death in fiction is a deliberate, well-thought out decision: the writer is God, and he or she is choosing, for whatever reason, to Strike This Character Down. There are good fictional deaths, and ones which feel cheap. This book lost me for good because it contains a death that felt exactly like the hand of God reaching down: Oh, thought the writer-god, I don't really know Let's talk about death. Not death which is inevitably part of life, but death in fiction, where it is not inevitable at all. Death in fiction is a deliberate, well-thought out decision: the writer is God, and he or she is choosing, for whatever reason, to Strike This Character Down. There are good fictional deaths, and ones which feel cheap. This book lost me for good because it contains a death that felt exactly like the hand of God reaching down: Oh, thought the writer-god, I don't really know how to end this but I know that an element of tragedy will make this novel seem super deep. Die, character, die! This did not seem like a senseless death of that type that in real life is imbued with honest tragedy. It felt like an author scrambling for a final act, and not being brave enough to let his characters simply face the rest of their lives together. To die might be a very great adventure, as Peter Pan says, but Peter Pan is an eternal child. Isn't this book supposed to be about growing up? Isn't the greatest adventure simply living ? But let's stay with youthful mistakes for a minute. You see, the thing is: I wrote this novel. I don't say this out of jealousy\u2014\u201cIt should be me with this bestseller, me with a movie deal and Nick Hornby praising me on his blog!\u201d No. Not that I wouldn't like all of those things one day\u2014I totally would\u2014but the novel I wrote, which shares a freakish number of similar elements with this one, sucked. I mean, it really stank. This novel, it must also be noted, is much, much better than mine was: the prose is an improvement over mine at the time (I was 20 or 21), and I'm pretty damn sure that this book is more realistic, and more consistently funny and emotionally engaging, than my juvenile effort. However, there are definite and bizarre similarities: both books are about a friendship between a man and a woman over a long stretch of time, beginning in the \u201980s; both are about struggling to strike a balance between financial solvency and artistic integrity; both star a character named Em (really, it's eerie); and both feature a tragic bicycle accident. It's the tragic bicycle accident that really gets me. I saw the one in One Day coming from miles away, and approached it with increasing incredulity. Because I had done the tragic bicycle accident, in the shitty novel I wrote when I was 20, and it was dumb then and it is dumb now. It's the hand of the author coming down and going, \u201cLook! Look! I AM GOING TO MAKE YOU CRY GODDAMMIT.\u201d Since none of you has read my novel (thank god), this comparison lacks something. So allow me to make another one. This involves yet another embarrassing confession: I really, really like the movie City of Angels . Yes, the one with Nicolas Cage and Meg Ryan: completely honestly, I do. I also love the movie it was based on, Wings of Desire . I remember at some point discussing our mutual appreciation for these two films with my mother. Which did we prefer? I know I hesitated, because as much as I love Wings of Desire , I also think it drags at certain points\u2014that long, lengthy speech in the bar at the end! What's that about? City of Angels , though... Here my mom stepped in, definitive. She liked Wings of Desire better, because of the crucial difference in the movies' endings. See, in Wings of Desire , the angel falls, finds the woman he loves, there is a pretentious speech in a bar, and then they just...go on living. That's the ending: they must face the consequences of living. In City of Angels , on the other hand, the angel falls, finds the woman he loves, and then the very next morning...she dies. IN A FREAKIN' TRAGIC BICYCLE ACCIDENT. Seriously, what gives? Are we all just a bunch of scarred Nico fans inside? Is this a public safety announcement of some kind? \u201cKids! Wear a helmet\u2014or your death may facilitate the important, if sadly belated, epiphanies of your loved ones!\u201d No, but quite honestly, I think my mom was right that the bolder, braver ending can sometimes be the one that's not about GRAND TRAGEDY, but that's simply about the everyday struggle and joy of living. How is that not an equally valid story to tell? The fact that David Nicholls seemed to do everything in his power to ultimately avoid telling it really frustrated me. This novel definitely has its charm: it's snarky and English; its central device is clever; its depiction of feeling lost and aimless in your twenties seemed spot-on. But\u2014in part because of its clever format\u2014too many of this story's important moments happened off-stage, and the\u2014one is led to believe\u2014central event of its two protagonists finally, finally falling in love is downplayed horribly so that\u2014dun dun dun\u2014the tragic bicycle accident can occur several chapters later. I felt cheated and manipulated, frankly, having slogged through 300 pages of the male lead behaving like an utter ass while not a lot of other stuff happened\u2014all that, for this ? And sure, one could argue that that sense of disappointment is realistic to life. But I would counter that it doesn't make for very good fiction. Neither does the fact that this book has more endings padding out its already hefty page count than The Return of the King . You'd already lost me with the tragic bicycle accident, dude, can we just wrap this up already? Your internet profile was enthralling, but on a one-to-one level it just isn't working. Let's split the check and go our separate ways. Maybe in ten years' time I'll look back on this and laugh; in twenty I'll have forgotten your name. ...more Opening Line: \"I suppose the important thing is to make some sort of difference.\" So I\u2019m going to try to write a somewhat sensible review here that doesn\u2019t come across as all gushy fan-girl. I will say (hopefully only once) that I adored this book but you should know that I'm a bit of a sucker for a tragedy too. ONE DAY was brilliant in every way; making me laugh and cry while filling me with nostalgia and longing. And because I\u2019m the same age as Dexter and Emma the time frame here was also total Opening Line: \"I suppose the important thing is to make some sort of difference.\" So I\u2019m going to try to write a somewhat sensible review here that doesn\u2019t come across as all gushy fan-girl. I will say (hopefully only once) that I adored this book but you should know that I'm a bit of a sucker for a tragedy too. ONE DAY was brilliant in every way; making me laugh and cry while filling me with nostalgia and longing. And because I\u2019m the same age as Dexter and Emma the time frame here was also totally relatable (see nostalgia) with little details I had forgotten about from the past two decades. Equal parts heartbreaking and hilarious yet also suspenseful as each chapter takes place a year to the day after the last one so you have to figure out what\u2019s happened in that time between. And of course you want the H/h to get together so you\u2019re waiting with bated breathe for them to finally \u201csee\u201d each other too. In the end this also made me want to seize the day like it\u2019s my last, phone up all my long lost friends and lovers and look at old photographs. Hmmm and I haven\u2019t even gotten into the genius of the writing yet (how do you put that into words?) I knew that writing a review here was going to be difficult (when you love a book this much there doesn\u2019t seem to be enough correct words to do it justice) and I promised myself to just keep this short and to the point so here goes... This is one of the most hilarious, perceptive, witty, moving and heartbreaking books I have ever read. Told in 5 parts in alternating POV\u2019s and over a span of twenty years Dexter Mayhew and Emma Morley meet in 1988. Em has just graduated from university and hooked up with that boy she\u2019s seen around for ages. He is Dexter, beautiful, pretentious and in his mind destined for greatness. As the sun rises they drink wine and talk about their futures. They have their whole lives stretching out ahead of them in an endless number of days and isn\u2019t it going to be wonderful they can achieve anything they want to. Starting as lovers Dexter and Emma continue as friends and the book joins them on July 15th of each year (St Swithin\u2019s day) through their 20\u2019s and 30\u2019s and into their 40\u2019s. As anyone in their 40\u2019s knows, life happens and it doesn\u2019t always go as planned, missed opportunities and the like. \u201cWhen I was younger everything seemed possible. Now nothing does.\u201d Through phone calls and letters, in different countries and towns, through assorted relationships, jobs and life\u2019s little surprises and ruts we join Em and Dex each year in a unique snapshot of their life. They don\u2019t always get along but they do think about each other everyday in some way and in case you haven\u2019t figured it out this is ultimately a love story. I can\u2019t say much more about this without giving it all away. But when I read the last word I wanted to start it again and nothing I\u2019ve tried to read since compares. Cheers. \u201cLive each day as if it\u2019s your last, that was the conventional advice, but really, who had the energy for that?\u201d ...more A hilarious and realistic love story. Excellent characterizations, Nicholls captures life's ups and downs so well and tells Emma and Dexter's stories through snapshots on one day over the course of twenty years. If you are a HEA junky like me, you might want to be aware that this is not a traditional happy ending at all, but in a way it is even better because the story continues beyond the HEA, it is real, honest and bittersweet. I don't necessarily think this is a story everyone will enjoy, it is A hilarious and realistic love story. Excellent characterizations, Nicholls captures life's ups and downs so well and tells Emma and Dexter's stories through snapshots on one day over the course of twenty years. If you are a HEA junky like me, you might want to be aware that this is not a traditional happy ending at all, but in a way it is even better because the story continues beyond the HEA, it is real, honest and bittersweet. I don't necessarily think this is a story everyone will enjoy, it is not really a romance, it is a truthful love story with all that it implies. Dark and gritty at times as well. ...more Why do these two like each other, exactly? This book is completely overhyped. It is so dull. It's not exactly boring, but it's certainly not exciting. In my opinion, dull is the perfect adjective to describe 'One Day'. I was expecting something mindblowingly heart-wrenching from all of the praise I've seen for this book, but it was quite a disappointment. The book was well written and the premise was fantastic but it just didn't work for me - the whole thing just felt so drawn out and I didn't feel much for either Emma or Dexter - especi This book is completely overhyped. It is so dull. It's not exactly boring, but it's certainly not exciting. In my opinion, dull is the perfect adjective to describe 'One Day'. I was expecting something mindblowingly heart-wrenching from all of the praise I've seen for this book, but it was quite a disappointment. The book was well written and the premise was fantastic but it just didn't work for me - the whole thing just felt so drawn out and I didn't feel much for either Emma or Dexter - especially Dexter. The whole 'twist' just felt quite ridiculous. After ploughing through most of the book and to be given that ending didn't make me sad, just quite infuriated. I thought that the imperfect ending was the right way for the book to go, but not in this way. The book did show a realistic evolution of a relationship throughout twenty years, but this 'observation' of the couples lives unfortunately didn't really do anything for me. ...more Romances that bring friends together should show some reason why the two people like each other. Right? That seems to be the tactic that works for other stories. As complete opposites, you\u2019d think Dexter and Emma were turned on by these differing facts. But, the characters actually seem annoyed by most of what makes them dissimilar. In short, there is nothing to explain why they would actually care about each other. And, there\u2019s no reason for me to care about them either, for that matter. Dexter i Romances that bring friends together should show some reason why the two people like each other. Right? That seems to be the tactic that works for other stories. As complete opposites, you\u2019d think Dexter and Emma were turned on by these differing facts. But, the characters actually seem annoyed by most of what makes them dissimilar. In short, there is nothing to explain why they would actually care about each other. And, there\u2019s no reason for me to care about them either, for that matter. Dexter is a sleazy pig of a jerk, who is also an alcoholic and a druggy. Emma is bad-tempered and critical\u2013 she snaps and complains about people, yet she secretly seems to admire Dexter for the things she can\u2019t stand about him: spontaneity and bravery. I\u2019m supposed to be watching their friendship slowly turn into something more, but the trouble is that I cannot even understand why they\u2019re friends to begin with. They are merely a one-night stand gone completely wrong. It seems the only reason they hang around each other is to keep the sexual tension alive, which is really the only thing that they have \u2013 attraction. If the years that pass are supposed to show how the two grow closer together, why don\u2019t either show much evolution in their characters? The only time either one has an insightful thought about themselves or their relationship is when they are drunk. How insightful can those thoughts really be if the two supposed friends bicker and criticize one another more than anything? To make matters worse, the end does not give anything to satisfy my unanswered questions and confusion about the relationship of Dexter and Emma. Sadly, I wished the story had ended 200 pages in, or less, which meant I was less than half way before I wanted to tear the rest of the pages out of this never-ending unromantic story. -EZ Read Staffer Amelia watch the video discussion: http://vimeo.com/27598967 ...more There will be spoilers... I am no longer speaking to this book it has seriously pissed me off. It is imperialist unamerican and majorly depressing. I have done you a favor Mr Nicholls and decided not to kill myself lest it reflect poorly on your book, but you made me want to repeatedly. And yes I understand you are british and that there is something fundamentally wrong with british people that makes you uncomfortable with anyone have a remotely good day in a novel, but seriously. Honestly David There will be spoilers... I am no longer speaking to this book it has seriously pissed me off. It is imperialist unamerican and majorly depressing. I have done you a favor Mr Nicholls and decided not to kill myself lest it reflect poorly on your book, but you made me want to repeatedly. And yes I understand you are british and that there is something fundamentally wrong with british people that makes you uncomfortable with anyone have a remotely good day in a novel, but seriously. Honestly David I am a bit worried about you and I think it maybe a good idea for you to go see a therapist you seem intensely depressed to me and you don't want to go ending up like B.S. Johnson now do you? Right so now that I am done ranting about cultural differences on to ranting about the book. This book basically has the plot of an american romantic comedy. Nicholls even knows this and periodically remarks on it (comparing the main characters to Harry and Sally for example). Unlike an American story it's well depressing and not a little bit, all the time. I know it is hard to imagine but this is a book about two people who are basically depressed constantly, okay I lie once Emma is happy and maybe twice Dexter is happy in a course of 20 years, and it is never super happy, just eh okay happy. They are constantly in relationships they hate with people that hate them or generally terrible at whatever they are attempting to do at that moment. Seriously this is why I am getting up in the morning so that I can be miserable once again? This book seems to me to have two options for trajectories: The American: They get together and everyone lives happily ever after. The british: they stay friends but they never seem to slow down long enough to get together. The second option feels like the direction the book is going for a full 3 hundred pages. Dexter even at one point says something along these lines to Emma. And to be completely honest I was okay with that. I understand the idea that some people just can't slow down enough to make a relationship work. I understand that regardless of how much Emma and Dexter love each other, which is evident in the book, that sometimes things just don't manage to fall into place. This doesn't mean that they don't love each other enough or that there is something wrong with them, it simply means that circumstances are simply unable to create a world in which people like Emma and Dexter end up together. Perhaps they care to much, perhaps in the end we all settle. With passion comes disease and argument, and a relationship of love can never be quite as perfect as a relationship of compromise. Of Dexter marrying someone else and agreeing to become a just good enough husband, of Emma settling for a man who loves her whom she can't manage to change quite enough to love him back. This is where I thought the book was going to go. Perhaps the book still ends up here in a terribly horrendous way but first... The book goes american on us. They manage to get together, and just in time, whew almost missed that whole biological clock thing, and yes circumstances could be better. I mean that idiot Dexter has a kid that truly belongs to someone else and he has been a loser and a drunk for the better part of 40 years, but at least it finally happens. And Emma fixes him. Yay for an american happy ending. But wait on their two year anniversary \"Emma Morley dies\" and I am not kidding that is the amount of play it gets in the book. She thinks she is going to be late meeting dexter to look at a house and she dies. This is where the book and I began our grudge map. I did not wait 350 pages for something good to finally happen so that people could suddenly get killed off. And Dexter becomes a bad person again, but he gets over it and is friends with his ex wife again and dating the manager of his shop, um can you say incest? Serious at least date someone who your wife wasn't making jokes about you cheating on her with. So seriously David I am worried about you if these are your introjects of the world, please email me I will help you find a good therapist. ...more Every now and then you read a book that sticks with you. It may have a serious tone, or in the case of One Day , no particular tone at all. I\u2019m exceedingly glad that I withheld from reading reviews of this novel until after I was three fourths of the way through, as I\u2019m not sure my experience with these characters, these words, would have been the same. It was bad enough to have been bombarded with blurb after blurb hailing this book as a comedy, others as a romance. I\u2019m of the opinion that it is Every now and then you read a book that sticks with you. It may have a serious tone, or in the case of One Day , no particular tone at all. I\u2019m exceedingly glad that I withheld from reading reviews of this novel until after I was three fourths of the way through, as I\u2019m not sure my experience with these characters, these words, would have been the same. It was bad enough to have been bombarded with blurb after blurb hailing this book as a comedy, others as a romance. I\u2019m of the opinion that it is neither. One Day is what life reads like. *Spoilers Ahead* I\u2019m sure you all know the premise, if not, watch the movie trailer, it will spell it out quite clearly. Guy (Dexter) and girl (Emma) meet, have a brief hookup, and settle into a loaded friendship until finally, after nearly fifteen years of angst, they become lovers. It\u2019s rather touching really, but what enchanted me most wasn\u2019t the eventual coming together of these two disastrous fools, but rather the hot messes that these two characters are as individuals. What misfortunes they suffer! And what success! Thus is the beauty of this book. Neither Dexter nor Emma are particularly likeable, but they love each other. Why, I do not know. Frankly, it was only when Dexter was in Emma\u2019s presence that I could even moderately stand him, but again, I thought that was rather brilliant characterization on the author\u2019s part. Haven\u2019t we all met a shithead, or two, and thought to ourselves \u201cI can\u2019t stand this mofo, I bet he doesn\u2019t have a single friend to his name\u201d? Nicholls shows us, that not only do such shitheads have friends, they have a mother and father, and even a brilliant woman who loves them. They might even have good, shine worthy moments whilst in those individuals presence. Who\u2019d have thunk it? And Emma, what can I say about Emma? For most of the book she is a walking, talking catastrophe. Pinning after a man who isn\u2019t worthy of her, lost and directionless. Filled with dreams and utterly clueless as to how to make them a reality. But she endeared herself to me with her fiery passion, intellect (except in matters of the heart), indecision and lack of self confidence. Why? Because I\u2019ve been her. I think we all have. Most of us suffer through a quarter life crisis, otherwise, the coin never would have been phrased. And I\u2019m certain most of us struggle with when to settle for our lot, and content ourselves with our fortune and when to press on and reach for our dreams, hopes and wants. In seeing the disasters that are Emma and Dex, I was reminded that the beauty in life is best shown by living it. Adversity only magnifies accomplishment. And while we all surely have a fate, our choices very much determine the course of a life. One Day was a touching book, filled with relevant detail and rather lovely, readable writing. I\u2019ll certainly read it again. ...more I finished this book 3 days ago and I'm just now coming out of the stupor that I've been wandering around in since. One Day isn't a book with many gray areas...readers will absolutely love the story or they will hate it. I happen to be one of the former...so much so that I have spent all of my free time in the last 3 days hunting down pictures, articles, interviews, etc, related to the book and the movie adapted from it (opens nationwide August 19th). Since the author of One Day , David Nicholls, I finished this book 3 days ago and I'm just now coming out of the stupor that I've been wandering around in since. One Day isn't a book with many gray areas...readers will absolutely love the story or they will hate it. I happen to be one of the former...so much so that I have spent all of my free time in the last 3 days hunting down pictures, articles, interviews, etc, related to the book and the movie adapted from it (opens nationwide August 19th). Since the author of One Day , David Nicholls, also wrote the script for the movie, I have no doubt that this is going to be that rare exception where the movie will be as good or better than the book. The actors they have cast to play the lead protagonists are a perfect fit. In fact, Anne Hathaway loved the book so much, she flew to London to convince the director why she was perfect to play the part of Emma. The story centers on the lives of two people, Emma Morley & Dexter Mayhew, who meet the night of their college graduation on July 15, 1988. The one-night-stand they attempt to engage in doesn't pan out; instead, they opt for being friends. Little do they know, this \"off-the-cuff\" friendship they've settled for will cultivate and grow - encompassing Dex, Em and all of the book's readers. Thus, July 15, 1988 marks the day that changes their lives forever. For each year thereafter, the story stops on that same day to check in with Dex and Em. One Day is a character study like no other. I don't think I've ever read a book where I have known the H/h as intimately as I do Dex and Em. Their hopes and fears, successes and failures - as well as the steadfast bond between them - is all absorbed by the reader. Whether you enjoyed the book or not, I'd wager very few could deny the amazing chemistry between Dex & Em, as well as how thoroughly exposed & vulnerable their feelings become as the years go by. You will laugh a little at them and cry a lot with them. In fact, there comes a point in the story where the laughter will cease but not the tears...definitely not the tears. Even for those of us that normally don't cry at the drop of a pin...you might surprise yourself here. Forewarned is forearmed...have the box of tissue handy! I am not going to elaborate on the storyline because it isn't one to tell; rather, it is a story readers should experience for themselves. Although it is a fictionalized account, there are situations in One Day that might hit home as being very personal to you. Friendship and love... does one lead to the other or should heading in that direction be avoided? Can they exist synonymously...running deep and true and eternal? Is there one specific day that changed your life forever? The only genre I read is romance and IMO One Day is a 10-star contribution. However, if you require your romance to be all wrapped up in shiny paper with a big bow on top (like I usually do), I would recommend that you do not read this book. But for those of you who are willing to step outside of the box, you will get an extraordinary, emotionally-gripping, \"laughter despite the tears\" powerhouse of a novel in return. The cover of the book says it all! ...more Read a book with a number in the title. This is by far the easiest 5 stars I've given out this year. (forget the fact that it is only the second 5 stars I've given out this year.) (also forget the fact that I'm writing this review the day before I finish Dark Matter which will most likely be its biggest contender) And btw, fuck this book. Maybe it's just bad timing for whatever, but I think you should head of to China or India or wherever and find yourself, and I'll get on quite happily with things Read a book with a number in the title. This is by far the easiest 5 stars I've given out this year. (forget the fact that it is only the second 5 stars I've given out this year.) (also forget the fact that I'm writing this review the day before I finish Dark Matter which will most likely be its biggest contender) And btw, fuck this book. Maybe it's just bad timing for whatever, but I think you should head of to China or India or wherever and find yourself, and I'll get on quite happily with things here. I don't want to come with you, I don't want weekly postcards, I don't even want your phone number. I don't want to get married and have your babies either, or even have another fling. We had one really really nice night together, that's all. I'll always remember it. And if we bump into each other sometime in the future at a party or something, then that's fine too. We'll just have a friendly chat. We won't be embarrassed 'cause you've had your hand down my top and there'll be no awkwardness and we'll be, whatever 'cool' about it, alright? Me and you. We'll just be....friends. Agreed? This is going to be one of those personal reviews. Just so you're warned. If you don't like it, look away now. Spoiler tagging for those not interested. (view spoiler) [Have you ever had a best friend of the opposite sex? And by that I mean a REAL best friend, not a significant other who steps into that best friend role over time. That person you call first when something great happens or when something bad happens or you need to cry. The person who absolutely knows you the best, better than any other friends you have. A person you text constantly and do everything with. A person with whom everyone else around you thinks you are in a relationship because on the outside looking in, it appears as though you are. But a person with whom that line never actually gets crossed despite what everyone else around you thinks. You see, until very recently, what I described above describes me and my best friend Indiana. And that kind of relationship is what Dexter Mayhew and Emma Morley, our two main characters in this book, have. They meet the last day of college and have a bit of a tryst one drunken night after a party, but then stay friends. For twenty years. This book examines one day (the same day, July 15th) of every year in the 20 that Dex and Em have known each other. And I absolutely fucking loved it. I loved the complexity and the care with which Nicholls built these two characters and their relationship. Seeing the relationship and their lives in snapshots was beautifully done and it was a way in which I as a reader was really able to see the growth and changes in not only their relationship, but in their own separate lives, lives that always seem to cross, no matter the circumstances. And their relationship was real. And what's more, I BELIEVED IT. I BELIEVED EVERY SINGLE WORD OF IT. And maybe it's because I had a very close, very deep, and very platonic friendship with a guy. And this relationship between Dex and Em reminded me of myself and Indiana, sometimes painfully so. But there's still something missing. No, this relationship was so utterly believable to me because of the characters. There is so much about Emma that is me, and so much about Dex that is Indiana it really actually truly began to scare me in places. And though their story does not actually mirror mine, it came close enough in parts where I truly understood these two characters and their behaviors and motivations and feelings, and it made these two so incredibly real to me. This relationship is pulled and strained and is in parts completely and utterly dysfunctional, and in parts unbelievably tender and beautiful. It becomes unhealthy and toxic, but comes back together seamlessly at the right time. And only two people with such a deep connection can make this whole book seem as flawlessly un-contrived as it was to me. About halfway though, Emma realizes that their relationship has become something poisonous and wrong and she makes the decision to walk away from her best friend. Then very quickly she turned, walked up to him and pulled his face to hers, her cheek warm and wet against his, speaking quickly and quietly in his ear, and for one bright moment he thought he was to be forgiven. 'Dexter, I love you so much. So so much, and I probably always will.' Her lips touched his cheek. 'I just don't like you anymore. I'm sorry.' And then she was gone, and he found himself on the street, standing alone in this back alley trying to imagine what he would possibly do next. And that part of the novel just gutted me. Completely. I had a very rare (and quite long, I might add) book cry. The words were beyond powerful and resonated with such an incredible amount of truth. Especially for me. Because honestly, the same thing happened to me and Indiana about 3 months ago. And we still haven't reconciled (even Dex and Emma were separated for several years in the book--only thoughts and memories survived between the two in those lost years). And that may not sound like much. Best friends going their separate ways. It happens. But splitting with my best friend hurt worse than nearly every breakup I've ever had. Times would come up since we stopped talking that my fingers would seem to burn with the desire to pick up the phone and call or text. Thoughts of him and how he's doing enter my consciousness every single day. And coming to the conclusion that sometimes fights can't be fixed with words or \"I'm sorries\" or hugs or wine is really hard. Sometimes time is the only thing that can mend something broken, and even then there are times when even time doesn't do the trick. Fundamental differences, some call them irreconcilable differences , persist in relationships and never go away no matter how many times \"sorry\" is said. That's the hardest thing about splitting up. Knowing that there isn't anything you can do to fix the problem. And journeying along with Emma and Dex as they fight their way towards these same conclusions was hard for me. Cathartic. Painful. But strangely helpful too. I can relate to so much that Emma and Dex go through. Alcoholism, parenthood, dissolution of romantic relationships, finding an identity apart from your best friend, working your way through this thing we call life and trying to figure it out in equal parts together and apart. These same struggles and trials ran a thread through my life and relationship as well, and maybe that's why the ending of this book hit me harder than a ton of bricks. Seeing Emma and Dex's relationship grow and ultimately change as the meaning of what July 15th is to the two of them reveals itself was a beautiful experience as I've stated before, but seeing these two friends (and eventually partners) kind of switch places later in life (in terms of success, attractiveness, style, drive, ambition, you name it) was something that was unveiled quietly and softly, and therein lies the beauty. This book is so real because it is so slow. It is twenty years of two lives. The change isn't drastic but it isn't constant either. And that's what I loved about it. Seeing their lives play out in real time, chapters constantly ending and beginning until the dramatic conclusion that had me ugly crying for the second time while reading this. So I fucking loved this book and I fucking hated this book and I will always hang onto this book because it is a rare sketch of a very unique friendship between two different people. It taught me that when a connection is made between two souls, past and future don't matter. Sometimes relationships are completely irrational and nonsensical and can't be explained. And sometimes two souls can and will find their ways back to each other once time has done its thing. And sometimes they can't and won't. But the here and now of any meaningful relationship, the meat, the juice, the essence of each one, will live on somehow. In thoughts and in memories. Choices we make or things we do. In an old almost forgotten inside joke, or a landmark only relevant to you. These relationships always stay with us whether we want them to or not. That is what connection is. That is what humans live for. What makes us different from other species. Who knows how long a person is meant to touch your life, or why they entered it in the first place. You just gotta love what you got for as long as you got it. And let it go when it's time to say goodbye. I wish I had a happy ending to tell you with regards to my personal part of this review. I decided to write this tonight because I ran into Indiana yesterday. And after a long hug and a few pleasantries (that had way more meaning to both of us than the mediocre words spoken between us would suggest) we both went our separate ways again, knowing time wasn't done with us yet. And that encounter made me feel very unburdened on one hand, but still hurt like 10,000 licks of hellfire. Woody Allen really says it best. And that, my friends, is how this gorgeous, real, true, kick-in-your-gut, horrible, ugly-cry-including, profanity-causing gem of a book earned 5 stars from the cold-hearted monster who doesn't give out five stars. Thank you to all and to all a good night. (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more \"Emma and Dexter meet for the first time on the night of their graduation. Tomorrow they must go their separate ways. So where will they be on this one day next year? And the year after that? And every year that follows? Twenty years, two people, ONE DAY\" One Day I was standing at a train station confronted by a huge orange poster much like the front cover of a book I had bought a year earlier but hadn\u2019t read. So i took it with me to Florida and didn\u2019t put it down. \u2018One Day\u2019 was quite a match for \"Emma and Dexter meet for the first time on the night of their graduation. Tomorrow they must go their separate ways. So where will they be on this one day next year? And the year after that? And every year that follows? Twenty years, two people, ONE DAY\" One Day I was standing at a train station confronted by a huge orange poster much like the front cover of a book I had bought a year earlier but hadn\u2019t read. So i took it with me to Florida and didn\u2019t put it down. \u2018One Day\u2019 was quite a match for Mickey Mouse to steal my affection! I have to say it is one of the best books I\u2019ve ever read. It\u2019s funny, honest and unbelievably true to life. There were moments i provoked odd looks from passers by when I\u2019d literally laughed out loud and even once, gasped. I felt connected to every character in the book in some way simply because I knew someone exactly like them which made it so enjoyable to read. It\u2019s one of those books you can read over and over again and never tire of it. Often whilst reading the book I forgot what was fiction and what was reality and felt myself feeling the same emotions as the characters even when I wasn\u2019t reading anymore! I am copiously hoping that David Nicholls produces another brilliant read for i am dearly missing the characters of One Day already! ...more I kind of hate this book. I can only reason that I picked it up because I felt lonely and hormonal and thought that maybe I could pass the time with a cute little chick lit book... maybe on the lines of The Time Traveler's Wife, which I can also, reasonably, (though I am not always that) can see as being a hokey book. But--- this... no, I can't let it go. Yes... I was menstruating and I'm sorry if that's TMI... it plays an important role in my reviewing of this book because I could be biased or I kind of hate this book. I can only reason that I picked it up because I felt lonely and hormonal and thought that maybe I could pass the time with a cute little chick lit book... maybe on the lines of The Time Traveler's Wife, which I can also, reasonably, (though I am not always that) can see as being a hokey book. But--- this... no, I can't let it go. Yes... I was menstruating and I'm sorry if that's TMI... it plays an important role in my reviewing of this book because I could be biased or maybe even, like, wrong. But.. no... I don't think so. First off. This book isn't ONE day. Ok, yes... it's one CALENDAR DAY. July 15th, I think, which is like Groundhog's day for England. Except that they don't have a Punxsutawney Phil, they have some Saint Swithin who was famous for building churches and being charitable. Damn Brits and their high falutin' holidays. So... the legend goes if it rains on St. Swithin's Day, it will rain for the next 40 days and if it's sunny on St. Swithin's day... well, you get it. There may be some sort of subtle play going on here but I couldn't really put it together or didn't really care enough to (yeah yeah yeah 'one day-we'll be together' barf.) Anyway, this is actually like TWENTY TWO days... or maybe 23... I lost count or didn't do the math. And it's spread over 40 something years... so you meet Emma and Dexter on night of their graduation from University where they spend a drunken night half dressed in bed sort of talking sort of not, sort of 'snogging' sort of not. They don't really seem like they'd get along, so I assume it was a random sort of pickup. Emma is described as one of those pseudo political, Nelson Mendela loving, earthnik frumpy gals. At least that's what I get out of it via Dexter's description, who is kind of dumb and cute and likes to fornicate alot. Now, I hear there is a movie about this, and this is who they chose to play Emma . Um... Okay... sure... she's also been described as 'the spectacled girl with the 'fringe cut' and having 'pup fat' and a 'Rachel' haircut. Sure... this is... um... this is bullshit. Anne Hathaway is fucking gorgeous. Yeah, they say that Emma is pretty in the book and all that but you're led to believe that she's more frumpy and is pining after cute Dex and all that. Well, IMHO, anyway. Now Dexter, 'Dex' , the playboy with a trust fund. (yeah... this works for me... I won't rant about casting on him...) The guy who 'goes with the flow' is so stereotypical. I mean, I guess they try to make him have a soul and all that, but he's a drunk who likes pretty girls and worries about what people think of him. Why would Emma like that if she's so 'deep'? Are all frumpy girls pining for their cute boys-as-friends? I can let you know, from personal experience, NO. We're wondering why our friends who happen to be cute can be so dumb. Dexter is like the Ryan Seacrest of England. Ewww. Yet, each year, on St. Smithin's/Swithin's day, we see Emma thinking about Dex and Dex wishing Em could pull him out of his superficial spotlight... and we see how their 'friendship' grows... how one is working at a texmex restaurant while the other is 'largin' it' on reality TV or how one is writing a book while the other is introducing extreme sports to insomniacs and we're supposed to see the tragedy of these two never connecting or missing their chance or whatever. Insert Vomiting Unicorn Photo Here. The writing isn't even that good to pull you in. You see the formula. You know what's going to happen next. Christ. How can people put this shit out? And even worse, how can he say that he uses Thomas Hardy as an influence? HUH? Don't even... And then... then... we get a blurb from Nick Hornby saying \"A big, absorbing, smart, fantastically readable on-off love story.\" I wonder how drunk he was when he wrote that. Seriously. Yes, I admit that I loved When Harry Met Sally. I am a girl after all, or was... I don't know if it's still PC to say that. But, I did grow up and did get married and did get smart and all that and I can't really condone this. I just can't. Thing is... the thing that I REALLY hate about this book is that it--- it did it---- it made me cry. I'm so fucking mad at myself (and this book) I didn't want to get sucked in. I didn't even really like these people. I will blame the menstruation. Because as much as a cliche as that is. It is the god honest truth. Still, I sobbed like a girly girl. PFFFT. ...more A beautiful and unconventional love story. I loved Emma. I thought she was funny, intelligent, feisty, and down-to-earth. Took me a while to warm up to Dexter, (he's not a nice guy at first) but when he grew-up emotionally, I found him charming and extremely loyal. This book will make you laugh, cry, and believe that true love is possible. Enjoy! :) I thought the premise of this book was brilliant. Following two friends, a boy and girl, who had a romantic encounter of sorts on their final graduation day, and seeing a glimpse into their lives every year on the same day after. I loved the detailed pop culture references, that maybe you can only truly appreciate had you grown up in London, and that made me yearn for my home town more than usual. That is where my like for this book ended. Because in general I thought it was quite monotonous, it d I thought the premise of this book was brilliant. Following two friends, a boy and girl, who had a romantic encounter of sorts on their final graduation day, and seeing a glimpse into their lives every year on the same day after. I loved the detailed pop culture references, that maybe you can only truly appreciate had you grown up in London, and that made me yearn for my home town more than usual. That is where my like for this book ended. Because in general I thought it was quite monotonous, it dragged in places, there was unnecessary exposition and dialogue, I personally felt all the characters were unlikeable (bar Dexter's mother) and terrible stereotypical creations; last but definitely not least, there was a ridiculously pointless death. A death, may I add, that was the second most interesting character, (I guess... at a push.) But aparently Nicholls doesn't like to allow his female protagonists to live. No. He likes to strike them down in the prime of life, like a sadistic god who has nothing better to do with his plot and character development. But really, rather than rant for longer than this, because I am tired, and bored, and hot and have run out of ice lollies so am also a little cranky, and already feel like I wasted too much time on this book, and and and... I direct you here , to this brilliant review. Because it says it all and more. Other than the City of Angels love. That's just a little weird. ...more Yuck! What self-indulgent muck! I decided to read this book after having read extremely positive reviews in the British press, and upon finding out that a movie based on the book will be released imminently. About 100 pages in, I was already hating it, and now, finally finishing it, I am convinced those raving reviews must have been written by people who hardly ever read books. The book is cheesy and corny, predictable as a storm on a cloudy day, with characters who unfortunately display very li Yuck! What self-indulgent muck! I decided to read this book after having read extremely positive reviews in the British press, and upon finding out that a movie based on the book will be released imminently. About 100 pages in, I was already hating it, and now, finally finishing it, I am convinced those raving reviews must have been written by people who hardly ever read books. The book is cheesy and corny, predictable as a storm on a cloudy day, with characters who unfortunately display very little deep or profound development as the book progresses. It's chick-lit written by a man. I feel that the author's use of a certain trite plot device, which may have been intended to shock and awe the reader, only made me feel really angry about having laboured to get so far into the book. I don't want to spoil the plot for those who still intend to read the book, but I am compelled to advise you to brace yourself for a cop-out. Probably for the first time in my life, I am honestly hoping that the movie will out-perform the book. ...more I feel as though I just went on a wonderful date with this book, but now I'm trying to justify to my friends, myself and the book why this isn't true love. Or at least true literature. Like most page-turners, the dialogue is snappy, the ruminations are written like people talk, and the story is mostly plot-driven in a sea of Omigodwhathappensnext adrenaline. (And that scene where the new boyfriend nervously plays a game with the girlfriend's family only to play too hard and have everyone glaring I feel as though I just went on a wonderful date with this book, but now I'm trying to justify to my friends, myself and the book why this isn't true love. Or at least true literature. Like most page-turners, the dialogue is snappy, the ruminations are written like people talk, and the story is mostly plot-driven in a sea of Omigodwhathappensnext adrenaline. (And that scene where the new boyfriend nervously plays a game with the girlfriend's family only to play too hard and have everyone glaring at him? IT'S BEEN DONE.) But so much of it was just so charismatic, so unforgivingly honest, that I often found myself putting it down in order to soak it all up. And I kept having arguments with myself as to whether or not I was really in love with real Literature. Before I come off as any more of a snob, let me state my standards. Literature sets itself apart from genre fiction because it doesn't rely on formulas. A story avoids formulas by having a) complex, realistic characters, b) a creative writing style, c) an overarching theme about the human condition. So, does One Day have what it takes to keep itself out of the Romantic Comedy genre section? A) Emma and Dexter are carefully crafted characters whose brilliant inner monologues could never translate to well film. Unlike so many modern authors, Nicholls understands Her as well as he understands Him, assigning them both self-destructive tendencies and a profound capacity for love. That they are constantly pointing out each other's flaws and constantly making each other laugh makes theirs one of the few literary relationships based not on passionate romance but passionate respect. (And respect is freakin' romantic.) Unfortunately, most of the supporting characters are stereotypes used mainly to tilt the reader's sympathy back to the main two. Whatever selfish mistakes Emma and Dexter make, Suki is just too ditzy, Ian is just too inept, Sylvie is just too cold, and Mr. Godalming is just too nondescript for the reader to ever risk siding with them. A few points lost there, but stereotypes can also be used to reflect the society in which the main characters are trying to survive (see American Beauty or White Teeth for more of that) and Nicholls does sometimes pull this off quite well. B) An accessible style need not be shallow. Nicholls's descriptions never risk distracting you from the plot, but they decorate it very well. (\"She looked up at the ceiling as if she were giving someone the chance to hide.\") The story's structure, jumping one year ahead with each chapter, is clever and tantalizing, warning the reader that no scenes will be guaranteed. And, like the main characters, Nicholls can be very, very witty, when he wants to be. (\"In a war film, Ian would be little Tommy writing home to his mother. Dexter would be, well, an effete Nazi.\") *MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD* C) The theme is perhaps the weakest part. Crazy stupid love and the difficulty of growing up aren't the most challenging topics ever put to paper, and the speed at which this story was turned into a screenplay at least whispers \"standard fare.\" But it's no surprise the film did badly because Emma and Dexter are NOT just two cuties who riff until it's time for the Cinderella ending. They're friends first and foremost, and, as the NY Times observed earlier this year, pop culture doesn't have many stories about friendship. It doesn't really know what do with it. Nicholls does. He's written that he feels ambivalent about leaving Dexter and Emma childless, but this was one of my favorite aspects of the plot because it serves as a testament to the strength of their friendship. They don't need a biological symbol of their loyalty to one another in order to justify it. He loses a few points for talking so much about sex without proving he can write a sexy line describing the act. (FYI, \"flesh\" is not a very sexy word.) But their sexy friendship is portrayed in such a rainbow of delicate details that anyone who's had a crush on a close friend will relate to at least a colorful handful of them. And nothing epitomizes Nicolls's commitment to portraying all that is cruel and banal and frustrating in life than the fact that he spends no more time on their marriage than he does on Dexter's bereavement. As Roger Ebert has pointed out, every love story ends in death, and unlike so many pop culture storytellers, Nicholls is brave to let us see how Dexter struggles with that, skipping the melodramatic moment of discovery and going straight to the hell of healing. Whether or not it's Literature, I am pleased as hell when there are books like this in the world. Like a fun date, there were points when I wished it could have been better, but I never wanted it to end. ...more Nakon \u0161to su mi se slegle strasti mogu da napi\u0161em detaljnije utiske. Ima ne\u0161to u britanskim piscima, \u0161to njihove knjige \u010dini itekako realnim, gotovo i previ\u0161e, a opet se trude da iz svake pri\u010de izvuku ne\u0161to magi\u010dno i specijalno,ma koliko akteri iste bili emotivno ili fizi\u010dki sjebani. U\u017eivala sam u ve\u010dnom obigravanju Dekstera i Eme, koji kao da nikada ne mogu da prona\u0111i pravi trenutak za romansu, dok se trude da skrpe i izgrade sopstvene karijere i \u017eivote. Knjiga se doti\u010de tema klasnog raslojavan Nakon \u0161to su mi se slegle strasti mogu da napi\u0161em detaljnije utiske. Ima ne\u0161to u britanskim piscima, \u0161to njihove knjige \u010dini itekako realnim, gotovo i previ\u0161e, a opet se trude da iz svake pri\u010de izvuku ne\u0161to magi\u010dno i specijalno,ma koliko akteri iste bili emotivno ili fizi\u010dki sjebani. U\u017eivala sam u ve\u010dnom obigravanju Dekstera i Eme, koji kao da nikada ne mogu da prona\u0111i pravi trenutak za romansu, dok se trude da skrpe i izgrade sopstvene karijere i \u017eivote. Knjiga se doti\u010de tema klasnog raslojavanja, uticaja porodice u kojoj smo ro\u0111eni na povoljniji i povla\u0161\u0107eniji polo\u017eaj u \u017eivotu i dru\u0161tvu, nezaposlenost i neke op\u0161te socijalne nepravde, tako aktuelne i danas. Ema i Dekster nisu savr\u0161eni likovi, \u010desto \u010dak nisu ni dopadljivi, ali je ono \u0161to \u010dine tako realno, a opet tako svojstveno samo njima. Odli\u010dna knjiga, koju bih naro\u010dito preporu\u010dila ljubiteljima Toni parsonsa i Nika Hornbija. ...more Finally finished reading this book yesterday, it only took a whole month. I love the occasional chick lit, the kind of book that I would pretend I haven\u2019t read if I were that kind of person who cares that people judge me by the books I read. Having said that, I will secretly judge you if you tell me that you love the Shopaholic and Twilight series, not that I haven\u2019t read them, I have, I just don\u2019t love them. I\u2019ve read more books by Nicholas Sparks than I care to admit, I just keep hoping that t Finally finished reading this book yesterday, it only took a whole month. I love the occasional chick lit, the kind of book that I would pretend I haven\u2019t read if I were that kind of person who cares that people judge me by the books I read. Having said that, I will secretly judge you if you tell me that you love the Shopaholic and Twilight series, not that I haven\u2019t read them, I have, I just don\u2019t love them. I\u2019ve read more books by Nicholas Sparks than I care to admit, I just keep hoping that they get better, they never do. I\u2019m always in search of a book that\u2019ll put butterflies in my stomach and a smile on my face, so if you have any recommendations, please send them my way. But if you recommend the Time Traveler\u2019s Wife, I will punch you in the face. That book was torture. My two favorites would Nick & Norah\u2019s Infinite Playlist and Brand New Friend by Mike Gayle (I have no idea why this hasn\u2019t been turned into a movie yet!) Back to One Day, a book following two people one day a year for twenty years. Sounds promising enough, it was kinda sweet but it wasn\u2019t enough. It was bitter, everyone was bitter, the characters were unlikable and very whiny. There were a lot pages where I just wanted to shout \u201cGet over yourself\u201d, most of my friends\u2019 lives are more entertaining than this book. Especially my guy friends\u2019, you can\u2019t help but tell them \u201cI told you so\u201d but at the same time you\u2019ll want to buy them a shot or three to make them feel better. And they\u2019re much more likable than Dexter. Dexter reminds me of our friend (if you can call him that) that we secretly refer to as Spencer Pratt. So no, this book didn\u2019t give me butterflies in my stomach or a smile on my face, I was just annoyed. I\u2019ll probably still watch the movie though, but only for Anne Hathaway. So that was my lame attempt of a book review. Please ignore me. ...more Only the fact that I borrowed this book from Courtney kept me from throwing it against the wall... Dear Em and Dex, Please tell me, what a true love is? Coz i can't bear to read about how you both live in lies and denials for more than 10 years Does it supposed to be like that? a true love? Make you live in despair, trying to keep your love one closed, though you know you don't belong? What's that all about? Meh Why it has to be that way, Em? Why don't you realize that you are worth enough, even when Dex had told you how gorgeous you are, thousands of times? Why'd you have to wait for many years to co Dear Em and Dex, Please tell me, what a true love is? Coz i can't bear to read about how you both live in lies and denials for more than 10 years Does it supposed to be like that? a true love? Make you live in despair, trying to keep your love one closed, though you know you don't belong? What's that all about? Meh Why it has to be that way, Em? Why don't you realize that you are worth enough, even when Dex had told you how gorgeous you are, thousands of times? Why'd you have to wait for many years to come up with your great work and then you let him in? Why, oh why on earth that you could be so stubborn and skeptical about your potentials, Em? Geez!! And Dex, Oh yeah, you!! You're a cheater!! You definitely are!! Why don't you have the guts to tell her you love her in your peak time? Why'd you have to brag about how many girls and women you can have just by the charm of yourself, not mentioning your career.. Hah! You said that she's gorgeous but you don't show her that she's worth enough to be the only one And yet, you can't stand to stay away from her, can't you, Dex? And there it goes.. the fall of your life.. And to her you'd run.. *bang Dex's head* And what's with the ending? Meh! Some kind of love story.. A true one, indeed.. Geez!!! ...more And I give up. Twenty pages in and I was already regretting my choice of picking this book up. Now, after one hundred whole pages of this trash, I can't take it anymore. How do I begin to explain this atrocity? One Day recounts the story of Emma and Dexter in a never-before-seen format - each chapter is the just the one day - July 15th - of each year of their lives. This could have had so much potential but the execution is just... agonizingly painful. Now, Emma is a whiny, bitchy, insecure hipster And I give up. Twenty pages in and I was already regretting my choice of picking this book up. Now, after one hundred whole pages of this trash, I can't take it anymore. How do I begin to explain this atrocity? One Day recounts the story of Emma and Dexter in a never-before-seen format - each chapter is the just the one day - July 15th - of each year of their lives. This could have had so much potential but the execution is just... agonizingly painful. Now, Emma is a whiny, bitchy, insecure hipster who would much rather wear glasses than contacts, loves to feel sorry for herself WHEN THERE'S NO NEED TO and does NOTHING to fix her mess of a life, reads Dostovyesky and the like, shoves her taste for GOOD LITERATURE down Dexter's throat and, basically, cannot be happy unless she's fighting for a CAUSE. Dexter , on the other hand, is a whiny, douchey, insecure nymphomaniac who is loaded with cash and no idea what to do with it, likes being made to constantly feel that he's AWESOME, has no clue about what he wants in life - all he wants is job which he can \"brag about in a bar\" and doesn't involve hard work - and, basically, cannot be happy unless he has a woman in his bed with him. The biggest mystery in the pages I read, is HOW in the world these two fell for each other! The first time we meet them, they are strangers who just hooked up after running into each other at a party. Already Dex is thinking of leaving as soon as Em falls asleep, while she, on the other hand, is wondering to herself is he's THE ONE. A year after that, Dex is out travelling the world and sleeping with random women, while Em is working in D-grade plays wondering where her life is heading (No idea why she cant get herself a real job even though, as we are constantly reminded, she has a DOUBLE DEGREE). They are still in touch and have \"feelings for each other\" (when did that happen?) A year after that, Dex is in Greece and STILL sleeping with random women, while Em has moved on from her dreams of becoming a playwright and now works in a greasy, run-down Mexican restaurant (why and how did she get here?) in the middle of nowhere - still no sign of a REAL JOB. A year after that , Dex is in India and trying to become a professional photographer while Em is STILL WORKING AT THAT DAMN RESTAURANT even though she hates it there (why she just doesn't pack up her bags and leave, is never made clear). A YEAR AFTER THAT, Dex is in the same town as Em, working as a TV presenter (apparently \"he realized photography was not for him, and besides, \"I'm a TV presenter\" sounded more impressive\"), flaunting women in front of the love-lorn Em, who, by the way? Mexican Restaurant. You see? It's utterly maddening! Since each chapter is a year apart, lots of the \"in between\" details are missed out which is why it feels like there is absolutely no connection between the chapters. Though, the author tries hard to bridge the gap. Too hard. Sample this example - In one chapter, we are introduced to Ian, Em's new coworker, who asks her out but she declines as she is not interested and the chapter ends abruptly after that. In the beginning of the next chapter, the author reminds us - Hey! The two chapters are connected! It's the continuation of the same story! My story IS progressing but I'm not going to explain any of it to you. No, really! I'll prove it to you by not at all understating it and hitting you on the head with it! Look, look! -- \"The other staff scoffed. 'Why is it always me?' moaned Ian. 'Because you do it so beautifully,' said his best friend Emma\" Subtle, Mr.Nicholls, very subtle. Moaning and groaning, I forced myself to read on - much like how Harry forces Dumbledore to drink the potion in the Cave - and after, about a hundred pages, when they are at a nudist beach by accident and Dex is trying to convince Em to take her clothes off while she's saying no (this goes on for a bit), I read this - She leant forward, put her hand on his wrist. 'I think we should tell each other something that the other person doesn\u2018t know.' 'What, like a secret?' 'Exactly, a secret, something surprising, one a night every night for the rest of the holiday.' 'Okay. You first.' 'No, you first.' 'Why me first?' 'You've got more to choose from.' And it was true, he had an almost bottomless supply of secrets. He could tell her that he\u2018d watched her getting dressed that night, or that he\u2018d left the bathroom door open on purpose when he showered. He could tell her that he\u2018d smoked heroin with Naomi, or that just before Christmas he\u2018d had fast, unhappy sex with Emma\u2018s flatmate Tilly Killick; a foot massage that had spun horribly out of control while Emma was at Woolworths buying fairy lights for the tree. But perhaps it would be better to go for something that didn\u2018t reveal him as shallow or seedy, duplicitous or conceited. He thought for some time. 'Okay, here goes.' He cleared his throat. 'A couple of weeks ago at this club, I got off with this guy.' And THAT, ladies and gentlemen, is when I stopped reading, because my brain exploded. ...more This isn't great literature, but it's entertaining and told in a subtler way than I expected, despite a tricky mix of humour and sadness. In particular, the \"ending\" was not at all what I expected (and the better for it), but I would have stopped the book at that point, rather than drag out the story for a few more chapters, which I think weakened the overall impact. PLOT Dexter and Emma are at the same university and know each other by sight, but only meet properly on the evening after graduatio This isn't great literature, but it's entertaining and told in a subtler way than I expected, despite a tricky mix of humour and sadness. In particular, the \"ending\" was not at all what I expected (and the better for it), but I would have stopped the book at that point, rather than drag out the story for a few more chapters, which I think weakened the overall impact. PLOT Dexter and Emma are at the same university and know each other by sight, but only meet properly on the evening after graduation, on 15th July 1988. Then they go their separate ways, but stay in touch, on and off. The book catches up with each of them on that date every year for nearly 20 years, through a mixture of his viewpoint and hers, including a few letters and voicemails. The format makes it quite a page-turner. It is essentially a story of missed opportunities: Emma and Dexter were \u201cunsure about what had happened and what would happen next\u201d rather sums it up. The central question is the \"When Harry Met Sally\" conundrum of whether men and women can just be friends, especially when there is an intermittent frisson between them. The central problem was that I was never quite convinced why their friendship was so deep and enduring. DEXTER and EMMA Dexter is the indulged only-child of affluent parents: a vain, feckless hedonist. Emma is clever, idealistic, geeky and working class, with self-esteem issues. Over the years, each has triumphs and failures and each has moments of wanting to make a move on the other. Sometimes their friendship is intense and at other times, very distant. WRITING STYLE One aspect that I liked was the way Nicholls plays with the reader's expectations. For example, some chapters open referring to \"him\" or \"her\", but tantalise the reader for a while as to whether that person is Dexter, Emma or someone else altogether. Similarly, sometimes you read a letter or message and only later discover that it was not received. WILL THEY... WON'T THEY... WHY THEY? So what do Emma and Dexter see in each other that binds them over so many years? They have almost nothing in common, and she realises from the outset that he is \"an idiot\" with a short attention span. Perhaps he likes knowing someone \"ordinary\", to convince others that he is vaguely in touch with reality, but there is guilt too, most noticeably early on when he wants to leave a generous tip in her restaurant, but \"Emma felt another small portion of her soul slip away\". Another time \"He wanted to share all this excitement with Emma, introduce her to new possibilities, new experiences, new social circles\", but is it really that he wants to share, is it that he feels his life is empty, or even than he wants to show off to her? At times they reveal a deep devotion, but Dexter \"knows that he can always cancel Emma\" if something better comes along. Is it that Nicholls can't decide or that the characters can't? (I can\u2019t decide which.) QUOTES Some random quotes that capture the style and atmosphere of the book \u2013 some hint at SPOILERS: * \"Nothing here [Emma's room] was neutral, everything displayed an allegiance or point of view.\" * \"He wanted to live life in such a way that if a photograph were taken at random, it would be a cool photo.\" * Making love, a man was \"taking care throughout to ensure that he was in no way objectifying her\". * \"At this stage in his life, his main criterion for choosing a career was that it should sound good in a bar, shouted in a girl's ear.\" * \"They were immune to each other now, secure in the confines of firm friendship.\" * \"Over the years she had reached a level of familiarity with Dexter where it had become possible to hear an idea enter his mind... she should hear the sound of his thoughts.\" * \"plagiarising 'girlfriend behaviour'\" * Living with a comedian, \"Life continued against this tinnitus of mirth.\" * \"Reading and writing were not the same - you couldn't just soak it up and squeeze it out again.\" * \u201cEnvy was just the tax you paid on success.\u201d * \u201cNothing in the world could be more melancholic than an unwanted engagement ring. It sat in the suitcase\u2026 emanating sadness like radiation.\u201d * Sex with [x] is like a particularly exhausting game of squash, leaving him aching and with a general sense that he has lost.\u201d * \u201cThese days grief seems like walking on a frozen river; most of the time [x] feels safe enough, but there is always the danger that [x] will fall through.\u201d Overall, it reminded me of some of Jonathan Coe\u2019s books, and I later noticed that he had supplied a cover quote. ...more I picked up One Day at the airport. I already had a few books on me (as any member of goodreads would). I'd seen the trailer for the movie, but I still think it was mostly an impulse. There was no conscious 'must read before film' vibe for me. The hook for One Day is that the story spans many years but takes place on only one day, the same day every year. Sometimes the characters are together; sometimes their lives have taken them in vastly different directions. As techniques go it was fairly wel I picked up One Day at the airport. I already had a few books on me (as any member of goodreads would). I'd seen the trailer for the movie, but I still think it was mostly an impulse. There was no conscious 'must read before film' vibe for me. The hook for One Day is that the story spans many years but takes place on only one day, the same day every year. Sometimes the characters are together; sometimes their lives have taken them in vastly different directions. As techniques go it was fairly well executed. Every major event does not happen on this one day a year, but some cheating does occur. I didn't find the cheating too off putting although I did notice it. For instance, Emma and Dexter meet on this day, which is why the day was probably selected, but they also stop speaking for several years after a conversation held on this day -- then several years later they begin speaking again on this day. In general, however, the author goes through some pains to make the day average through a majority of the book. Most of the time it is a successful snapshot of the moment they are living in. The biggest problem, and what diminished my enjoyment of the book, was the main characters. I didn't find either main character lovable. Dexter is most spoiled rich boys and when Emma isn't suffering she is bland. I certainly didn't think their romance was epic enough to warrant a book let alone a book like this where their lives and romance are tracked over decades. Yet, at the same time, their imperfect circle back to one another, their irredeemable personality traits, made the experience worth while for me. Most of the time I only tolerated Dexter. Emma wasn't any bright shinning light despite the author's aims. But... they both fucked up in ways I could relate to. They made mistakes, faltered over pride, and threw away opportunities with both hands. Maybe I didn't like them because sometimes they painted a mirror image of my own mistakes. None of the situations remotely resembled my life and yet I felt a constant, perhaps universal, connection to some of my own worst choices. I don't think Emma and Dexter's romance could have turned out any differently. They weren't right for each other the first time they met. They weren't right for each other each time they edged closer to being something. The separate, winding paths their lives took made it possible for that (forgive me) spark, to develop into something. If they'd done more than brush against the idea of being in love in their early twenties then they would have been each other's first mistake instead of the best thing that ever happened to either of them. Emma's death surprised and saddened me. It was written bleakly, as if everything important about Emma was snuffed out along with her life. There's no whisper of souls or an after-life, neither of which I believe in. I respect that the author didn't pad it out to comfort people, although I expect the starkness of her loss more than her death is what made so many people unhappy. We get to see Dexter go on for thirty or forty pages without Em. He is miserable, then slightly less miserable, and then finally able to remember her with some sense of peace. When he called her his best friend in the context of someone taking her away I felt more sappy than during her actual death scenes. Probably because with that line, I realized why the story was about these two people I didn't like much. They were the most important events in one another's lives, the very best thing life had given either of them, and this is how it happened. They didn't need to be epic and I didn't need to like either of them to appreciate the significance and the way things worked out. Overall the book has some beautiful, charming writing. I underlined many sections of the book to reread later and if I'm feeling ambitious I'll add it to the quote section on goodreads. Despite the writing, I can't get over not quite liking the characters for a large portion of the book. Three stars. I think maybe I'll give it four if I read it when I'm older. ...more I was hesitant about this novel because it semed like a romance novel, but I picked it up because it came up on several \"best books of the year list\". I'm glad I did. This is a real-life romance novel. No fluff, no fantasy. It follows the lives of two very real people who struggle with life, relationships, and self. The novel is fast-paced in that you only get a glimpse of their relationship (or lack thereof) as it spans over twenty years. The author achieves this by picking one day and describi I was hesitant about this novel because it semed like a romance novel, but I picked it up because it came up on several \"best books of the year list\". I'm glad I did. This is a real-life romance novel. No fluff, no fantasy. It follows the lives of two very real people who struggle with life, relationships, and self. The novel is fast-paced in that you only get a glimpse of their relationship (or lack thereof) as it spans over twenty years. The author achieves this by picking one day and describing where they are on that one day, every year, for twenty years. The development of the characters from immature 20somethings to life-questioning late 30somethings strikes a chord with probably most readers; it did with this one. It is funny in places, tragic in others. What makes it good is seeing how the characters develop and change - through letters, narrative, dialogue, etc. Reminds me a little bit of \"When Harry Met Sally\". There's another movie that it reminds me of but, if I mentioned it, I might give too much away so I will remain mum. I read this book in two days so...a quick and enjoyable read, especially considering I am typically leery of this genre. Oh, yeah, it's BRITISH. So, that should tell you something about the humor. It's dark and dry, just like I like it. ...more I feel like I've been reading a lot of dystopian/heavy literature lately, and for a bit of a break I picked this up- I would agree with others who said it's just a notch above a chick-lit beach read. The English major in me wanted to dislike it for that reason, but I found myself incredibly drawn in. The story is very relatable- think every person must have a Dexter or Emma in their life, someone they always come back to or think of, even as the years go by. I personally am at a stage in my life I feel like I've been reading a lot of dystopian/heavy literature lately, and for a bit of a break I picked this up- I would agree with others who said it's just a notch above a chick-lit beach read. The English major in me wanted to dislike it for that reason, but I found myself incredibly drawn in. The story is very relatable- think every person must have a Dexter or Emma in their life, someone they always come back to or think of, even as the years go by. I personally am at a stage in my life where I still have the idealistic 'I can change the bit of the world around me' dreams of the future, so for me watching these two characters move beyond that point into a real life was illuminating, but also depressing because it felt realistic. I loved the premise of seeing only one day in their lives each year, not only because the story moved quickly, but because of the focus on details which otherwise might have felt contrived or repetitive. I also think Nicholls did a fabulous job with the dialogue and the characterization- he was able to get beneath the sarcastic and caustic remarks to reveal the truly vulnerable people beneath. That being said, I did at times utterly despise Dexter; I believe at one point I literally yelled at the book. But I didn't want to stop reading, and I suspect I'll be thinking about this book for a while to come. ...more", "Title": "One Day"},
