{"Comments": "So, I'm just going to save you from having to read this book: Everyone,<---M> except Clary: WOHOO</---M>, we're going to Alicante!!!! Clary: *moping* ohnoes, they left me behind! But with my super special unicorn powers I can get there myself, although it was said that that's impossible! Aldertree: YOU GOING TO JAIL!! Simon: Crap , but I guess someone will get me out of jail soon...<---F> *300 pages later* </---F>...hello? Sebastian/Jonathan: Hello, I'm a new character introduced only to make sense of this mess. Want to make out So, I'm just going to save you from having to read this book: Everyone, except Clary: WOHOO, we're going to Alicante!!!! Clary: *moping* ohnoes, they left me behind! But with my super special unicorn powers I can get there myself, although it was said that that's impossible! Aldertree: YOU GOING TO JAIL!! Simon: Crap , but I guess someone will get me out of jail soon... *300 pages later* ...hello? Sebastian/Jonathan: Hello, I'm a new character introduced only to make sense of this mess. Want to make out? Clary: SURE! *2 seconds later* Ew, lets stop, I want to make out with the guy I still think of as my brother. Jace: Hey Clary I think I'm a demon so it's okay for us to be together! Clary: YAY! ME: ...What? Isabelle: OHNOEZ, demon attack! Also, Max is dead. <---C>Alec</---C>: Whatever. Who cares. Jocelyn: Hi honey, I'm back! Clary: Whatever. Who cares, I've just invented the MOST PERFECTEST RUNE EVER. With it, you can combine the powers of Shadowhunters and Downworlders. YOU GET THEIR POWERS AND THEY GET NOTHING!!!! Everyone: YAY!!! Alec&Magnus: WE WUV EACH OTHER NOW! *Exposition time! We learn that Sebastian/Jonathan is actually Valentins son and Jace is the son of that Stephen guy. He's been cut out of the womb of his dying mother and Valentin then raised him because HE COULDN'T STAND HIS OWN SON. Also, Clary and Jace got the blood of the same angel in them, which sort of still makes them related, but WHO CARES?!?!? They WUV each other!* Sebastian/Jonathan: I KEEL YOU!!! Jace: I KEEL YOU FIRST!!! *later* Jace: I KEEL YOU!!! Valentine: I KEEL YOU FIRST!!! Angelguy: Valentin, with my awesome powers of gold and sparkle, I hereby sentence you to death through spitting a lightning bold. Also, Clary, make a wish. Clary: I realize I can wish for world peace or safety for my friends or rainbow ponies, but I want to get the guy I'm hot for back from the dead. ME: ... God. EVERYONE: YAY! Simon: GREAT, now I've got two hot chicks going after me! One is a werewolf and the other one unbelievably beautiful! What does this remind us off??? ME: Oh please, no. Maia: WTF , I thought I'd get a lead role in this shit! Where's my lawyer???? THE END. Inspired by Madelines abridged Shakespeare reviews. P.S.: YOU DON'T PLAY MARIO KART WITH THE TOUCHPEN! P.P.S.: Believe it or not, but that's what Simon does on the first page. ISN'T HE COOL? P.P.S.: Here's my review for COFA and here's the one for COLS. ...more I had begun reading this laying down and drinking the words in steadily but before I knew it I was sitting on the edge of the sofa and forcing to keep up my eyes focused enough not to move too far ahead. I promised myself I wasn't going to write a spoiler review though I really wanted to. Without giving spoilers I can't stress how much a certain line did this or what took me by surprise but y'all are just going to have to read it to feel and see what I felt. EVERYTHING is finally explained. Tha I had begun reading this laying down and drinking the words in steadily but before I knew it I was sitting on the edge of the sofa and forcing to keep up my eyes focused enough not to move too far ahead. I promised myself I wasn't going to write a spoiler review though I really wanted to. Without giving spoilers I can't stress how much a certain line did this or what took me by surprise but y'all are just going to have to read it to feel and see what I felt. EVERYTHING is finally explained. Thank goodness! It was fun to guess along the way to see if you were right. Sometimes I was off and not entirely sure but part of the excitement is having the dawning realization of \"Oh yeah!!! I can see that now!\" Definitely is the best of the series and not only because of the plot and resolution, but because of the development of the characters. As far as I could see Clary grows the least but she does. She always was a little more \"emotionally\" in tune than the others were. The character that makes HUGE strides is Jace. He started to grow on me in the second book but I absolutely get him now. There is this one line that he says (<---B>it's cheesy but who cares</---B>) that made me totally melt. *WARNING* if you don't like moments bordering on the cheesy side you may want to read something depressing instead. All the characters we have grown attached to have grown up to be a better version of themselves. One of the most impressive ones I'd say (other than Jace) is Isabelle, which is displayed well in the conversation she has with Clary in the kitchen. This book is charged with all the elements we are used to but make them ten fold because this is the end. Emotions, battles, loss, betrayal, surprises, and even the jokes carry that much more meaning to them. Out of all the books this one would have to be the most serious. I know that there was always the element of sudden danger, but this one is more so and we don't get to see as many sarcastic comments (which is understandable) but there are still there to ease the tension. I want to gush and gush over everything but I had to say Valentine seemed to fit into the series finally. I always felt he wasn't a villain material but he is, and I can't say why because again a spoiler. Best way to wrap up the series and say goodbye to the Shadowhunter world. Later note: Find out there is a fourth one! City of Fallen Angels ...more At this point I'm most likely not going to continue with the Mortal Instruments series. Sometime in the future I might, but for now I'm leaving it here. The further I get into this series, the more I enjoy it! I'm enthralled with the stories of these young characters in this paranormal world. With every book, the plot thickens and another layer of the mystery unfolds. This third book had many tests, turns and revelations. Some, I expected and some were completely surprising to me. All of them pulled me deeper into this story and left me craving more. Action was also plentiful in this book. An epic battle ensues that will keep you wondering what w The further I get into this series, the more I enjoy it! I'm enthralled with the stories of these young characters in this paranormal world. With every book, the plot thickens and another layer of the mystery unfolds. This third book had many tests, turns and revelations. Some, I expected and some were completely surprising to me. All of them pulled me deeper into this story and left me craving more. Action was also plentiful in this book. An epic battle ensues that will keep you wondering what will happen next. The dynamics are constantly changing as new characters and relationships are revealed. I am hesitant to say much about this book, because I don't want to spoil the secrets that come to light. There is a lot going on in this book. If you're a fan of paranormal/fantasy, this is a great book. Of course, this book leaves just as many questions unanswered as you had going into it. Some mysteries are solved, while others surface. One truth revealed seems only to lead to another question. This was no big surprise, since this book is in the middle of the series with plenty more to follow. Overall, I thought it was a great continuation of this series. I enjoyed every minute of this rapidly changing story. I'm so glad that I listened to all of my Goodreads friends that told me the series got better as the story progressed. They were so right! I can't wait to see where the next book will take me. ...more Bahh, i didn't really care about all the notes that <---A>Cassandra Clare</---A> made, and the scenes really felt like the book. I was really bored until Clary started talking to Jace on the phone, then it got really exciting. Merged review: Entertaining! Funny to see Aline's expression about Simon. Sebastian was pretty much how i expected him to be. Merged review: Cassandra Clare is sure an author who seem to have everything in mind. Of course everybody should have somebody to grieve for them! But no other autho Bahh, i didn't really care about all the notes that Cassandra Clare made, and the scenes really felt like the book. I was really bored until Clary started talking to Jace on the phone, then it got really exciting. Merged review: Entertaining! Funny to see Aline's expression about Simon. Sebastian was pretty much how i expected him to be. Merged review: Cassandra Clare is sure an author who seem to have everything in mind. Of course everybody should have somebody to grieve for them! But no other author i know thinks of that besides Cassie, and that's why i admire her so much! Merged review: AW, so much passion. Can't. Breathe. I was so filled up with desire for Jace and Clary finally 'doing it'. When i reached the last sentence, and Clary said \"Jace, don't\" i was so sad. I really had hoped something passion able was going to happen. Merged review: I'm so glad Cassandra postet the full letter. It's here, if you want to see it :) So beautiful! Clary, Despite everything, I can't bear the thought of this ring being lost forever, any more then I can bear the thought of leaving you forever. And though i have no choice about the one, at least I can choose about the other. Im leaving you our family ring because you have as much right to it as i do I'm writing this watching the sun come up. You're asleep, dreams moving behind your restless eyelids. I wish i knew what you were thinking. I wish I could slip into your head and see the world the way you do. I wish I could see myself the way you do. But maybe I dont want to see that. Maybe It would make me feel even more than I already do that I'm perpetuating some kind of Great Lie on you, and I couldnt stand that. I belong to you. You could do anything you wanted with me and i would let you. You could ask anything of me and I'd break myself trying to make you happy. My heart tells me this is the best and greatest feeling i have ever had. But my mind knows the difference between wanting what you cant have and wanting what you shouldnt want. and I shouldnt want you. All night I've watched you sleeping, watched the moonlight come and go, casting it's shadows across your face in black and white. I've never seen anything more beautiful. I think of the life we could have had if things were different, a life where this night is not a singular event, separate from everything else that's real, but every night. But things aren't different, and I cant look at you without feeling like ive tricked you into loving me. The truth no one is willing to say out loud is that no one has a shot against Valentine but me. I can get close to him like no one else can. I can pretend I want to join him and hell believe me, up until that last moment where I end it all, one way or another. I have something of Sebastians; I can track him to where my fathers hiding, and thats what im going to do. So I lied to you last night. I said I just wanted one night with you. But i want every night with you. And thats why I have to slip out of your window now, like a coward. Because if I had to tell you this to your face, I couldnt make myself go. I dont blame you if you hate me, I wish you would. As long as I can stil dream, I will dream of you -Jace ...more ***LAST AND FINAL EDIT (JANUARY 19, 2014): I'm no longer replying to the people commenting on this review. People still don't seem to understand my warning stating \"if you loved this series, don't read this.\" If you're going ignore THAT then I'm simply going to ignore your comment. It will not be read by me. *** Also, you may want to read through the comments before commenting. Chances are, what you're about to write may have already been stated. _________________________________________________ ***LAST AND FINAL EDIT (JANUARY 19, 2014): I'm no longer replying to the people commenting on this review. People still don't seem to understand my warning stating \"if you loved this series, don't read this.\" If you're going ignore THAT then I'm simply going to ignore your comment. It will not be read by me. *** Also, you may want to read through the comments before commenting. Chances are, what you're about to write may have already been stated. ___________________________________________________ EDIT #3 (September 3, 2013): So this is the actor (sorry I don't know his name) who plays Jace in the City of Bones film. He's telling people to see this putrid film and this is what he says Notice how he says \"take what ever you're dating\" and not who ever you're dating. He approves of beastiality like Cassandra Clare approves of incest. Damn the casting is perfect for her shit books. EDIT #2 (July 15, 2013): These die-hard fans can't read and heed my warning that they're commenting on my damn opinion with such nonsense. Once again, to the people who loved this series so much: STAY. OFF. MY. REVIEW. BECAUSE. YOUR. FEELINGS. WILL. MOST. LIKELY. GET. HURT. EDIT! So, apparently I have a lot of errors in this rant -- a lot . I'm just too darn lazy to fix them, though. Sooo.... yeah. This review is going to contain swear words, spoilers, rants, and complaints. If you can't handle my bluntness and curse words, don't even read it. Well, to be honest, this isn't a real review, this is a huge rant -- the longest I've ever written in my entire life, and the last. I really want to do this to myself after reading up to page 314: I know how this is going to end so I'm giving this 1 star (though I wish a '0 star' was an option). I don't know how to start and I don't know if this is going to make any sense but I'm going to write and God help me if any one of these fans [or other fellow reviewers] tries to tell me I'm being a cruel; heartless person. Yes, I know this is just a book. I know , but this woman is getting paid for copying and that is so fucked up to J.K. Rowling. Fans: Oh bloody hell, not another hater saying she copied Harry Potter. As if. If anything, Clare was inspired . Nope, fuck that. There's a difference between being inspired and being unoriginal. I'm going to tell you the difference later on in this review. *Sighs.* I don't know, I don't know why I keep coming back to this series if I know I'm going to be disappointed and angry. Oh, wait, I know why. I wanted to give this series a chance , I didn't want to be those ignorant haters talking about the books that they left unfinished: like the haters of the twilight saga. 'Sparkly vampires' is their reason of hating twilight because other people said it. There's so many holes in that book that's easy to point out and rant about if you read the saga. Only watching the first film of twilight will leave you blind and clueless. I'm rambling off here, but that's my reason of coming back to this crap, I wanted to know what I was going against; I didn't want to be left being ignorant. Anyway, back to my review. The characters: Clary: My God. There is something wrong with Clary. This girl. I can't even with this fictional character right now. I keep saying she's fictional so it can calm me down, but I think it's making things worse. Not a page goes by where I don't wish I can punch Clary in the face. The name Clary annoys me, her being in the book annoys me. Why can't she go away already? She's so stupid. She's constantly thinking about her brother Jace. Constantly.... constantly . Situations happen and there she goes, 'oh my god jace. i just want to hug him and comfort him and make sure he knows i'm there.' 'i wonder what jace will think of me when i tell him?' 'no one knows jace's secret. i desperately want to tell simon, but it's not my secret to tell.' 'is jace with that one girl? did he kiss her?' 'jesus why can't i be with jace already. can i please be happy?' 'why was jace so mad at me?' Y'all not annoyed of reading that already? 'cos I'm annoyed writing it, but I swear that's all she ever talks and thinks about. Like, come on. Oh and don't even get me started with the death of Max -- Isabelle and Alec's little brother. They were all in extreme pain at seeing max lying there and here comes stupid fucking clary, 'looking at jace brings daggers to my heart. i so desprately wanted to run to him and hug him, but the look simon gave told me it wasn't a good idea, so i thought about when he hugged the first time.' are. you. kidding. the. crap. out of. me. right. now? Everyone else is just as much hurt as Jace is and you're worrying about him? I just erfklgbjsbkljaol;km Jace: What happened to you, man? In the first book you used to be a total bad ass and now since you found out Valentine was your dad and you realised you can't have Clary because you guys are related, you've gotten so sensitive and stupid. Let me get this straight: You were being a total asshole to Clary when you guys never knew you were related -- despite the fact that you 'love' her, but oh no, Valentine says, 'HEY KIDS, I'M YOUR FATHER!' You're like, 'Clary, I want you and, gotdamnit I'm going to have you. Kiss me.' HOW. Alec: I don't really have snide comments for him. There's only this one problem that annoyed me: When demons entered Idris or where ever the heck they were, he sees Magnus fighting off about 5 demons and Alec saves the day. Magnus is all like, 'Did you ... did you just save me, Alec?' And Alec was like, 'Why didn't you answer/return any of my phone calls?' Like, are you kidding me? Demons just entered a place that was supposed to have block them out and you're worried about not getting a phone call back from a warlock? Alec... babe.... do you not value your life? Isabelle: Slut. Stupid. Simon: Whatever. Now I get to the part where I talk about her unoriginality. This whole book is like a stupid, crappy version of Deathly Hallows. Half Blood Prince vs <+++>City of Glass</+++> Half Blood Prince: Okay so I took this bit from harrypotter.wikia.com credit to them Dumbledore and Harry travel to a cave in which Voldemort had tortured two children in his youth. They proceed through the cave, coming to an island in the middle of a lake. On the island, they find a basin of emerald green potion, with the locket at the bottom. On Dumbledore's orders, Harry reluctantly force-feeds him the potion, which badly weakens him and causes extreme thirst. Mkay. So not only does it weakens him, but it driven Dumbledore to madness -- bringing up his worst memories. <+++>City of Glass</+++>: Clary draws this rune which creates a portal leading to Idris (or Alicante?), she ends up in Lake Lyn; by then, Lupin -- oh, er, I mean Luke pulls her out and starts pumping her chest so she can cough up all the water. Luke tells her (and I quote), '...to drink the water is very dangerous. It causes hallucinations, fever -- it can drive a person to madness.' Think about that for a second. Deathly Hallows vs City of Glass Ohh I'm going to have fun writing this. Deathly Hallows: Hogwarts has this spell/charm that has been cast by the professors and by the headmaster so no death eater -- or Voldemort -- can enter. Voldemort searches for a particular Hallow - the Elder Wand. Long story short: after finding this, Voldemort breaks this charm and death eaters enter and the battle of Hogwarts begins. Voldemort calls them back and says, 'You have fought valiantly, but in vain. I do not wish this. Every drop of magical blood spilt is a terrible waste. I, therefore, command my forces to retreat. In their absence, dispose of your debt with dignity. Harry Potter, I now speak directly to you. On this night, you have allowed your friends to die for you rather than face me yourself. There is no greater dishonour. Join me in the Forbidden Forest and confront your fate. If you do not do this, I shall kill every last man, woman and child who tries to conceal you from me.' This was quoted from the film, but in the book Voldemort also gives them until midnight (or was it an hour, correct me if I'm wrong please). The Deathly Hallows consists of three objects: The Elder Wand, the Resurrection Stone, and the Cloak of Invisibility. City of Glass: The Clave puts these wards up over Alicante so no demon can enter, but here comes Valentine and, like Voldemort searching for the DH, he searches for the Mortal Instruments. Valentines fines the sword and he broke through the ward, causing all the demons to break through and start fighting and attacking people. Long story short: Like Voldemort, Valentine calls the demons back and besides going up to the place (like what Voldemort didn't do), he goes in the projector form and says, 'If you will not listen to reason, you will have to listen to force. I have already showed you I can take down the wards around your city. I see that you\u2019ve put them back up, but that\u2019s of no consequence; I can easily do it again. You will either accede to my requirements or face every demon the Mortal Sword can summon. I will tell them not to spare a single one of you, not a man, woman, or child. Its your choice.' (page 311) He continues one page 313, 'I will give you until tomorrow at midnight to consider my terms, at that time I will bring my army, in all its force, to Brocelind Plain. If I have not yet received a message of surrender from the Clave, I will march with my army to Alicante, and this time we will leave nothing living.' The Mortal Instruments consists of three objects: The Sword, the Mortal Cup, and the Mirror. With that being said: All right. Let me just add something here: I thought this book would change my mind about the MI, I really did because it started off kind of good (that was because Jace and Clary weren't together). It's like whenever they're together it brings out my worst qualities... and whenever I read about Clary. My rant is done.... for now. 18/06/12 -------------------------- Pages 314 - 380 I have come to the conclusion... that I give up on the series. I really hate this, I do. I hate being constantly angry and I'm not one to get angry -- it takes a lot. I'm... I'm just done. Idgaf about how this series supposedly gets better because it doesn't. it doesn't -- it's only getting worse. It's also making me lose my religion. I'm not kidding: I find myself swearing a lot, saying God's name in vain and wanting to break Clary's face in for being an idiot an just being there in the book. Okay before I start my rant I'd like to give props to the impostor/spy named Sebastian for taking the words right out of my mouth when he said, \"Because I finally can. You\u2019ve no idea what it\u2019s been like, being around the lot of you these past few days, having to pretend I could stand you. That the sight of you didn\u2019t make me sick. You,' he said to Jace, 'every second you\u2019re not panting after your own sister, you\u2019re whining on and on about how your daddy didn\u2019t love you. Well, who could blame him? And you, you stupid bitch' \u2014he turned to Clary\u2014 'giving that priceless book away to a half-breed warlock; have you got a single brain cell in that tiny head of yours?'\" The moment I read that I was - literally - like, I have this feeling that that spy 'Sebastian' is really Valentine's son and not Jace. I mean it's obvious that Jace and Clary really aren't related, but the reason I'm saying it's still incest because: 1) Most of us thought they were actually related and 2) Clare had this nerve to even write about it. I can imagine her now saying, 'I really want to write a book that's like Harry Potter. But let's add that the two main characters are irrevocably in love with each other, but they find out they're brother and sister, and though they still can't get over fact they want to be something more than brother and sister, they'll sneak a few kisses when no one's looking. Oh! Oh! Oh! and let's add Jace and Clary saying even though they know it's wrong, they can't help it! That'll leave my fans thirsty for more incest romance! And then I'm going to write how, it turns out, they're really not related.' Clare you nasty devil you. Anyway, some of you can't get over the fact that Max died. I know I can't - he was only nine years old. Smh. It sucks to read. But here's what pisses me off: Isabelle. This... ewiogkljsrklgjserl. ok. She's in mourning which is understandable considering that's her little brother, so she's constantly blaming herself for not listening to him, not being there, etc. Simon comes, tries to make her not blame herself for 'Sebastian' killing her brother and Isabelle throws Simon on the bed and tries to have sex with him. She's all like, 'Oh I'm feeling better already.' Isabelle... your brother died less than a day ago... and you.... whatever. I've never liked her anyway. Clary is really... I've had about enough of her already. How can readers look up to Clary, how can anyone stand Jace/Clary's relationship? Clary chooses him over her own mother, and him over everyone else's life. No really. Jace leaves to find Sebastian and Clary runs off to tell Isabelle, Isabelle says she knew he was going to do something like that and Clary's just like, 'do you even want to find him? do even care that he's gone off on what's practically a suicide mission?' Isabelle is trying to tell her Jace can handle himself and there are things more serious than Jace going after Valentine; that innocent lives are at stake. Clary's just like, 'All I see is that Jace is your brother just like Max was and you cared what happened to him .' First of all Max and Jace's situation are COMPLETELY DIFFERENT. Jace knew what he was getting himself into, Max did not. Jace will be of age - meaning he's old enough to handle himself and make his own decisions just like you did - while Max was 9 years old and had no idea that Sebastian would turn around and kill him. Isabelle basically says this, too, but Clary doesn't listen and doesn't care. Ugh. Why hadn't Isabelle punched her? Let me hurry and finish this book so I can be completely done with this rant because I know I'm getting annoying. *4 hours later* I KNEW Sebastian was Johnathan and not Jace. someone needs to give me an award. 19/06/2012 ---------------------------- Stopped on page 413 I'm done. I can't finished this book. I'm trying not to smash my keyboard with my fists. I am so effing shocked and just can't even fathom why people think this is the best series. There's obviously something wrong with this book. I don't how to say this: So after Clary found out Jace wasn't her brother she get's all happy like, 'yay we can finally be together in public!' but wait simon says, 'so you kissed your real brother - sebastian?' and clary's like, 'oh god, simon please stop saying that. i already want to pass out and throw up as it is. i can't believe i kissed my brother! i feel disgusted.' screw this series. let me guess, this is how the story ends: clary stops valentine jace comes back -- they make out passionately isabelle confesses her love for simon; boom they go out now alec and magnus finally gets together the end. am i right? i'm right am i? ...more 5 If loving you is wrong I don't wanna be right Stars * Major Spoilers ahead* \u201cI told you he\u2019d freak out,\u201d she said. \u201cDidn\u2019t I?\u201d \u201cAh, the \u2018I told you so,\u2019\u201d Jace said. \u201cAlways a classy move.\u201d-Izzy and Jace OMG this book was so awesome. So many things happened in this book. It was like an explosion of events. Jace and Clary my God they suffer so much. I felt so bad for their struggles. Loving each other, thinking they're brother and sister and their love is wrong. But the part where they sleep lay 5 If loving you is wrong I don't wanna be right Stars * Major Spoilers ahead* \u201cI told you he\u2019d freak out,\u201d she said. \u201cDidn\u2019t I?\u201d \u201cAh, the \u2018I told you so,\u2019\u201d Jace said. \u201cAlways a classy move.\u201d-Izzy and Jace OMG this book was so awesome. So many things happened in this book. It was like an explosion of events. Jace and Clary my God they suffer so much. I felt so bad for their struggles. Loving each other, thinking they're brother and sister and their love is wrong. But the part where they sleep laying next to each other holding hands all night. Swoon! \u201cI love you, and I will love you until I die, and if there\u2019s a life after that, I\u2019ll love you then.\u201d-Jace Although I will say it was kind gross how they made out while still thinking they were siblings. Gave me Joe Dirt flashbacks. I'm glad we readers finally got to see who Clary's real brother was. Sebastian was as evil as his father. The things he did in this book made me sick. The way he came onto Clary and kissed her knowing he was really her brother sick! Trying to kill Jace and beating Izzy with a whip. Killing sweet little Max. I mean who kills a child a pos that's who! Poor Clary couldn't catch a break. Walking around thinking you're in love with your brother then finding out that your real brother did kiss you eww. I was so glad that when Jocelyn woke up and I was glad that Clary gave it to her good for all the lies she told Clary. It was nice to hear Jocelyn explain things and set the record straight. I also loved that her and Luke finally get to be together too. My heart was so happy when Alec stepped up and claimed Magnus by kissing him in front of everyone including his parents. That kiss was so hot! \u201cI\u2019m not going to do that.\u201d \u201cOf course you\u2019re not,\u201d said Jace, \u201cbecause you live to torture me, don\u2019t you?\u201d \u201cNot everything, Jace, is about you,\u201d Clary said furiously. \u201cPossibly,\u201d Jace said, \u201cbut you have to admit that the majority of things are.\u201d-Clary and Jace Twice this book had me flipping out over Jace. That last time knowing Valentine killed him right in front of Clary. OMG flipped out! Thank God the angel brought him back. And haha Paranormal Hitler aka Vatlentine got his! Simon was cute in this book. All his vampire yumminess getting him two girls that want him. I love how Simon has really grown since the first book. The end OMG the end was so sweet. Love this book can't wait to start the next one! \u201cAnyway, it\u2019s yummy. Jace?\u201d She offered him the glass. \u201cI am a man,\u201d he told her, \u201cand men do not consume pink beverages. Get thee gone, woman, and bring me something brown.\u201d \u201cBrown?\u201d Isabelle made a face. \u201cBrown is a manly color,\u201d-Izzy and Jace ...more Reread: January, 2016 1st Read : July, 2014 This installment could be the best ending if Cassandra Clare didn't do the City of Fallen Angels. Everything I am looking for in a sequel (and finale) is already here. Extraordinary plotline and pacing, engaging characters that continue to get better as the series go by, and the vividly captivating description of Idris . This book is too powerful and well-packed with action and each chapter gets edgier. There were also more revelations here and new charac Reread: January, 2016 1st Read : July, 2014 This installment could be the best ending if Cassandra Clare didn't do the City of Fallen Angels. Everything I am looking for in a sequel (and finale) is already here. Extraordinary plotline and pacing, engaging characters that continue to get better as the series go by, and the vividly captivating description of Idris . This book is too powerful and well-packed with action and each chapter gets edgier. There were also more revelations here and new characters being introduced, and let me tell you that Clary also became a better heroine. If there's a certain thing that makes this installment even more beautiful, it's also the romance . I totally love the romantic development between Jace and Clary here. That ending! *sigh Cassandra Clare sure knows how to draw me to her beautiful world! ...more It goes without saying that I am a lover of books. Stories, characters, and delicious prose...well...these are things that I throw myself into. My shelves are filled with countless books that i have read and loved, stories that I have enjoyed reading. I have never enjoyed reading a book as much as I enjoyed this one. Never. It's a scary thing when you get to the final book in a series or trilogy that you particularly care about. There's a certain amount of apprehension involved,correlating directl It goes without saying that I am a lover of books. Stories, characters, and delicious prose...well...these are things that I throw myself into. My shelves are filled with countless books that i have read and loved, stories that I have enjoyed reading. I have never enjoyed reading a book as much as I enjoyed this one. Never. It's a scary thing when you get to the final book in a series or trilogy that you particularly care about. There's a certain amount of apprehension involved,correlating directly to your emotional involvement to the story and characters. Its tricky for the author to wrap things up in a way that is true to the characters, consistent with the themes of the previous books, ties up the major and minor story arcs, and is still enjoyable to read. I've never read the final book in any series that managed to seamlessly do all of those things. City of Glass did. The characters in a story like this should be expected to change, to be affected by the events around them, and to react to them in some way. This was handled fantastically! Clary was very Clary-ish. Particularly early on in the book she was just as rash and independent and headstrong as ever. Watching her character progression over the span of the book (as well as the series), I must say that she usurps Gemma Doyle for the crown of female protagonists in the category that I refer to as \"Girls Who Do Things.\" And she does \"Do Things.\" Regardless of the fact that Jace disabled her truck tried to keep her from Idris, despite the fact that she lacks the training or even the in depth knowledge of their society, Clary refuses to sit on the sidelines. She refuses to be relegated to the role of bystander or victim. She was very true to the character that we got to know in City of Bones and City of Ashes. Jace, well, what can I say. Jace's journey here is epic. As he has in every book before, he broke my heart. Watching him struggle with himself, with his past, with things he cannot control...it is beautiful. The 'minor' characters (though I am loathe to call them that, seeing how real and well developed they are) really shine here, too. I can't really elaborate without giving anything away, but WOW. They all grow to meet the challenges before them, and we see a different side of *everyone* in Idris, though they stay true to the characters we knew. To say that I am ecstatic about the character development here is a gross understatement. All of the story arcs--both for the individual characters as well as the main conflicts--are tied up nicely. The foundations for everything that happens have been building since COB. The resolutions are not gratuitous or indulgent. They feel as if--rather than the writer giving the series the ending she wanted it to have, regardless of whether or not it fit the themes of the other books--the author allowed these characters to tell their stories through her. It was the way endings should be...but so rarely ever are. Nothing in this book (or the epilogue) will taint your love for the series...it will grow it. Ashley said that reading City of Glass was like riding a roller coaster in the dark, and she was not wrong. I laughed, I cried, I squealed, I shouted at the characters, I yelled \"Yes!\" and \"No!\" Oftentimes I did all of those things within the span of a single chapter. It's an emotional whirlwind reading experience. I was physically unable to put the book down from the moment I picked it up. And the ending? Well, the ending left me breathless. I don't say this lightly: there are probably two dozen books that I easily list as \"one of my favorite books of all time.\" City of Glass is not on that list. City of Glass *IS* my favorite book of all time. For sheer emotional connect, suspense, excitement, character WIN, romance, frighteningly believable villainy goodness, and moments that made me flail around like a toddler in the candy closet, it is unparalleled. Amazing. Wonderful. Fantastic. Words fail me. So for those of you eagerly counting down the days between now and March 24, take heart. City of Glass is well worth the wait. I had really high expectations for it, really high hopes, and it wasn't as good as I thought it would be. It was better. First Read ARC on January 15, 2009 Reread 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 ...more I'm going to review this properly. So I actually enjoyed this book and feel like I should have a ton to say, but first I'm taking a star off for the creepy little Lannister children and returning to that fun rant. I know I already went on about this in my review of the previous book, but let me reiterate: EVEN IF CLARY AND JACE TURN OUT TO NOT BE SIBLINGS, THEY STILL THINK THEY ARE IN THIS BOOK. Like am I the only one who thinks being siblings is not some unfortunate barrier to overcome or a \"forbidden\" romance that heightens the So I actually enjoyed this book and feel like I should have a ton to say, but first I'm taking a star off for the creepy little Lannister children and returning to that fun rant. I know I already went on about this in my review of the previous book, but let me reiterate: EVEN IF CLARY AND JACE TURN OUT TO NOT BE SIBLINGS, THEY STILL THINK THEY ARE IN THIS BOOK. Like am I the only one who thinks being siblings is not some unfortunate barrier to overcome or a \"forbidden\" romance that heightens the tension?? It's just a really odd writing choice. Like evidently Cassandra Clare thought this was a decent enough plot device that it could span THREE books to create an obstacle between these angsty lovers? It's weird , guys. Like this is some super romantic moment for Clary when Jace tells her: \"My sister, my blood, my family. I should want to protect you... to protect you from the sort of boys who want to do with you exactly what I want to do.\" And so, so many other scenes... like the bedroom scene where it's all \"it's just this one night. In the grand scheme of things, how much can one night matter?\" No. No your logic does not work. And I know Alec and Jace aren't siblings by blood, but the story is constantly emphasizing how Jace is a Lightwood and Alec is his true brother because real family blah blah. So the whole idea of Alec being in love with Jace (and how it's treated like some normal crush) is STILL JUST AS WEIRD. Please tell me I'm not the only one who sees this...?! (view spoiler) [So look at that -- Clary managed to kiss her real brother after all despite the plot twist. And ok why is she now feeling like she's going to throw up or pass out at the thought of how she kissed Sebastian/Jonathan, her \"real, full-blooded brother?\" That's exactly what she thought Jace was. Like I get the feeling Clary and Jace are meant to seem like these super intense star-crossed lovers who could just tell they weren't siblings the whole time so screw everyone telling them otherwise... but IT'S NOT ROMANTIC. Urgh. And honestly, Clary has known everyone for a few WEEKS. Exhibit A of instalove that needs to chill: \"She'd given so much thought these past weeks as to whether she loved Jace Wayland and how, that she'd never much paused to consider whether she liked him.\" Yeah, you might want to check into that. And I was laughing so hard when Clary first dismissed the fact that Sebastian looks like the prince of her drawings and dreams as coincidence, but then when she finds out that he's her real brother she's like OH THAT MAKES SENSE NOW. Yes, of course. (hide spoiler) ] Anyways... moving on. The story itself was fun and I loved the new setting of Alicante. The writing in these books isn't super amazing, but it's fine. I mean, the attempts at foreshadowing are shoved in your face with zero subtlety and the plot twists are visible from 300 pages away, but it's still a fun plot. The whole story sucks you in and flows well. And as far as characters go, I can tolerate Clary and Jace more now (barely) but still can't get a strong sense of most side characters. I'm super glad Isabelle stopped with the girl hate attitude too: \"it was only recently that Isabelle had realized other girls weren't just for envying, avoiding, or disliking.\" Hooray. These books are very stereotypically YA, so I'm really trying to let all of that slide and just take it for what it is. Like I wouldn't keep reading these books if I weren't mildly entertained by them, but I still can't help staring at the page sometime like \"wtf is this.\" But I liked this story the most so far![\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Wow. I am absolutely speechless. City of Glass was indescribably epic. This was, hands down, my favorite book in the series so far. Cassandra Clare has truly outdone herself. City of Glass was just so action-packed from beginning to end that I was literally grasping anything I could put my hands on to keep me from jumping out of my seat from excitement. THIS is the series that everyone has been raving about. THIS is the Cassandra Clare that everyone loves. With that being said, I've official Wow. I am absolutely speechless. City of Glass was indescribably epic. This was, hands down, my favorite book in the series so far. Cassandra Clare has truly outdone herself. City of Glass was just so action-packed from beginning to end that I was literally grasping anything I could put my hands on to keep me from jumping out of my seat from excitement. THIS is the series that everyone has been raving about. THIS is the Cassandra Clare that everyone loves. With that being said, I've officially completed Part One of The Mortal Instruments. I'm curious as to what else Cassandra Clare has in store for us with the rest of series. THINGS I WANT TO SEE IN PART TWO: (view spoiler) [ - A badass Shadowhunter fighting Clary - Clary not being a brat - More of badass vampire fighting Simon - Simon's family finding out about his vampire secret - The sarcastic, smart ass Jace that I missed. I'm tired of the sulky, depressed Jace. - Isabelle and Simon. That is all. Sorry, Maia. - Alec and Magnus - I want more Magnus. You can never get enough of the king of sass. - The real Sebastian Verlac - Possibly a new love interest for Clary because I'm tired of Clace even though they're probably endgame - Simon, Jace, and Alec bromance - Clary, Jace, Isabelle, Alec, Simon, and Maia to be squad goals - Jocelyn and Luke happy ending - More badass new characters - Shadowhunters and Downworlders living happily ever after for FOR GOOD because I already have a feeling that the peace between them by the end of City of Glass doesn't actually last long. (hide spoiler) ] Now it's time to begin and complete The Infernal Devices before continuing on with Part Two of TMI. I can't wait to be introduced to a whole new set of characters in the Shadowhunter world! ...more \u201cThere is no pretending,\" Jace said with absolute clarity. \"I love you, and I will love you until I die, and if there is life after that, I'll love you then.\u201d City of Glass should be the end of this series. I can't believe how I enjoyed this book beyond my expectation. Clary and Jace finally end up and figure their problems out while Alec and Magnus are much more than just flirtatious, they made my heart flutter all the time. Valentine is likewise out of the shadow and does many things to poss \u201cThere is no pretending,\" Jace said with absolute clarity. \"I love you, and I will love you until I die, and if there is life after that, I'll love you then.\u201d City of Glass should be the end of this series. I can't believe how I enjoyed this book beyond my expectation. Clary and Jace finally end up and figure their problems out while Alec and Magnus are much more than just flirtatious, they made my heart flutter all the time. Valentine is likewise out of the shadow and does many things to possess the Shadowhunter world. So this book suprised me to no end with its attractiveness of the characters and great potential of the story. Every turn is worth those minutes I spent. \u201cAnd I'm suppose to sit by while you date boys and fall in love with someone else, get married...?\" His voice tightened. \"And meanwhile, I'll die a little bit more every day, watching.\u201d Can't deny that CoG cracked my heart because of the dialogues. And the ending was beating my brain endlessly when something happened to those characters I loved. Plus I liked the direction of this book; I knew where I had to focus and where I had to let it slip since verything was clear from the first. \u201cPeople aren't born good or bad. Maybe they're born with tendencies either way, but its the way you live your life that matters.\u201d I must say I am clearly satisfied with this book. From the first sentences until the last, it kept my interest all the way. ...more FINALLY! It's over! I'm done with the original Mortal Instruments trilogy, and it feels so good. Now, before I begin, I will be courteous enough to inform you all that the following review is filled with whining, griping, and spoilers. If you love anything about this series, read at your own peril. I am not responsible for any strong feelings that my ravaging of these books trigger. Before you read this, please read my reviews of City of Bones and City of Ashes because I will be most likely refere FINALLY! It's over! I'm done with the original Mortal Instruments trilogy, and it feels so good. Now, before I begin, I will be courteous enough to inform you all that the following review is filled with whining, griping, and spoilers. If you love anything about this series, read at your own peril. I am not responsible for any strong feelings that my ravaging of these books trigger. Before you read this, please read my reviews of City of Bones and City of Ashes because I will be most likely reference past jokes. You could say I'm consistent, unlike Clare. Last time on the Mortal Instruments: Jace gets thrown in jail for being a smart ass. Daddy V steals the Super Special Sword of Truth and then gives it after-market blood mods so he can raise Hell, literally. Simon gets turned into a sun-proof vampire. Clary goes Super Mary Sue and blows up a ship. Other than that, those 500 pages were worthless. Sigh. If I wasn't shaking my head during this book, I was screaming at it. You would have thought I was watching a horror film. The last couple chapters I read on auto-pilot, not even caring to scribble down some notes. I'm done this series, and anything else Clare writes. Before I chase people off with my dour attitude, it's time for the Character Breakdown! Clary: I get that she's a 16 year old girl, but after thousands of words, she's still clueless, rash, and bitchy. When Jace and the rest of them leave her behind for Idris, she throws a temper tantrum like a toddler. Then she makes her own Portal to Idris, ignoring the rule that she needs permission to do so, and drags Luke with her. After splashing down in the Mortal Mirror (because Clare couldn't be more obvious that was what Lake Lyn was), Luke's poor sister Amatis saves her life from the freaky water. And then Clare proceeds to treat Amatis terribly. She eats her food, wears her clothes, sneaks out, and destroys her property without so much as a thank you. That poor woman gets no respect from Special Snowflake Clary. Then there is the treatment of her mother. She spends books worried about her, and then freaks out when Jocelyn walks in the door like the woman abandoned her. Clare tries to use the excuse that Clary just didn't know how angry she was. As a young woman who loves her mother, I would have given her the biggest hug because she's all right. Then proceed to grill her on what was going on. But my point is, I wanted to slap that pubescent red-head and scream, \"Bitch! Don't talk to your mother like that.\" The one thing that really bugged me is when Clary reveals her special rune making skills to the Shadow-hunters and Down-worlders. (Yes, I grammatically corrected those.) Clare specifies that Clary gets her Super Scribbles from the angels because daddy experimented on her by accident. (I just realized how lame that sounds.) Clary tells the crowd gathered that she creates the runes. Yes, creates the runes even though we, the audience, knows that she does not create them. She's just \"remembering,\" for lack of a better term, runes that have been forgotten to time. I didn't think I could get more depressed until everyone gave her credit for finally uniting the SH and DW after a thousand years. Um, no. Just, no. The truth is, the Shadow-hunters were just too afraid and jealous to form a real bond with the Down-worlders. A real relationship. It felt like they jumped on the opportunity as an excuse because they got super-powers out of it. That does not repair the damage caused by hunting these people for hundreds of years. And they give Clary the credit. Fecking Shadow-hunters. And then there is her one wish. What does she wish for? Jace, because daddy ran him through a sword. I know Clary isn't that bright, but as an artist, couldn't get creative. Clare kept shouting at us that Clary is an anime and manga fan. So why not rip off one of the mass resurrection wishes from Dragon Ball Z ? All you need is a little modification: \"I wish for all those killed in the last week by Valentine and his agents to be returned to life. Except the evil ones.\" Okay, there might be problems with that, but it would be worth a shot. It's better than just Jace because the Lightwoods are missing a certain little boy. What was his name again? Moving on. Jace: He's come a long way from being one Ed Hardy shirt away of being the douche in the corner of the night club you roll your eyes at. Sadly, instead of developing into a better person, he just grew more dramatic and boring. I don't know how that's even possible. It's almost like his personality was sucked out of him by all the similes Clare used. (I know. I almost lost my sanity to them.) There's this scene where Clary catches Jace making out with another girl, and then they have a fight. Clary leaves, leaving him with Alec and Izzy to have a nice talk. At the end of their conversation, Jace gets angrier and punches a picture window. Do you know how expensive those are to replace? He's was being such a Drama Queen, feathered boa and all. It was painful to read, and not in the good way. After that it was all down hill. By the end of the book, Jace feels like a generic tragic hero. He tries to show his girl how much he wuves her. He goes it alone, tracking down the bad guy. He kills his evil twin, and then gets killed by daddy. Oh, boo-hoo. Poor, [Insert Hero Name]. It was just... meh. I actually missed Jackass Jace. There was substance I could make fun of. And Former-Shadow-of-Himself Jace finally hooks up with Clary, for good. Don't care. Oh, and Daddy V isn't his father. He was cut out of his suicidal mother's womb after she killed herself. And he's got angel in his genetic code. Like I didn't see that one coming... Simon: He is my favorite of the three, hands down. Despite the issues he has coming to terms with being a vampire, which is understandable, he's still the smartest and most mature. He's also the only one who sacrifices anything. When Raphael wants to kill him in exchange for the help of the vampires, Simon goes but tells Clary to put the Mark of Cain on his forehead. While this may curse him to wander for eternity, he doesn't care. He wanted to live - well, as much as a vampire can live - and unite the vampires with everyone else. Despite the deception, Simon gets two thumbs up for courage. He really is too good for this book, especially since he was in jail for 200 pages of it. Isabelle: By this point she's just Jace's mouth piece. Jace never tells any one any thing, so Izzy does it for him in skirts and hooker heels. I feel bad for her. By the end she's Jace's knight in shining armor. Not Clary. His adopted sister protects him and saves his ass more than anyone notices. Clary is totally the wrong MC for this story. I'm sorry how your writer treats you, Izzy. Alec: Gains a spine a little too late. I wish Clare had given him substance two books ago. I do get why Magnus likes him, though. He's boring. I would want boring too if the rest of my life was glitter and chaos. Magnus: There wasn't enough of him to save my sanity. I often missed him. Good to know he's capable of somber behavior. Jocelyn: Finally wakes up, thanks to Magnus. Acts as giant info dump. Wasn't really given a personality for a woman who escaped her abusive husband, lived in hiding, and raised one of the most self-centered people in the book. Luke: Mostly in the background even though he does all the political heavy lifting. They give Clary the credit. Feh. It's this guy who deserves it. Amatis Herondale: Luke's sister. Puts up with Clary's abhorrent behavior. Of all the people in this book, she deserved to give that brat a beat down. First wife of Jace's father. She's nice and supportive. Too bad her writer doesn't pat people on the back who deserve it. Sebastian: Will the real Jonathan Morganstern please stand up? This psycho is the demon child of Jocelyn and Daddy V, which makes him Clary's real older brother. He was a better baddie than his father because he was scary. When a teenager beats a nine year old to death with a hammer, I admit I wouldn't want to meet him in a dark alley. That's horror flick shit right there. Of course, Clare wouldn't know how to describe a creepy smile if she tried. She can't keep the damn similes off the end of the sentence to make it effective. And then there's the dark prince metaphor that Clare keeps using every time she writes about him from Clary's perspective. Here is the funny thing about dark princes, they are always bad, bad news. Very bad news. I'll list a few off the top of my head that quite a few people might know about: Prince Joffrey from Martin's Song of Fire and Ice books : I don't think I have to explain this one to anyone who's seen the HBO series or read the books. Joffrey is horrendous. This pretty little blonde pre-teen puts Sebastian to shame in the violent-acts-that-make-people-squirm department. He beheads people left and right, has Sansa smacked around by his cronies, and likes it. He's just... pure evil. That's all I can say. Prince Jorg Ancrath from Lawrence's Prince of Thorns : Another young psycho, except he has goals. There is nothing like someone who will do whatever they want to get what they want, and that includes raping women and blowing up whole freaking castles. He also stabs his own men. There is really nothing like young Prince Jorg, except maybe Alec from A Clockwork Orange . And because Clary likes anime, and I've been using Dragon Ball references pretty consistently, I give you Prince Vegeta : This walking Death Star gets off eradicating entire civilizations. Beating on people excites him. He killed his childhood nanny - I mean body guard - because he suddenly became useless. Even after becoming the world's wealthiest trophy husband, he nuked half of a sold out stadium to get his rival to fight him after juicing up on black magic. So you can see why Clary's romanticized version of her \"dark prince\" immediately made me think, \"He's evil! Evil! Run, stupid!\" Seriously, Clare's logic when it comes to writing has shorted out my brain more than I want to count. No mental acrobatics will compensate for whatever goes on in that woman's head. Daddy V: Sigh. Clare gave him a personality a little too late. It's book three, and we're just now finding out he's the well meaning, mad scientist type. Too bad the path to Hell is paved with good intentions, because that is where V is going to end up. When an angel looks at you and basically says, \"You are not God, you cannot judge,\" then you know you're screwed. That's what happens to V, and I must say that I pitied him. It was almost sad, if a bit pathetic. I wanted to reach through the pages and say, \"Dude, you messed up. Time to face the consequences.\" I think I felt more for him than I did for any of the other characters in the book. If Clare was capable of good character development, then he wouldn't have been made of cardboard for two books before finally being fleshed out. How do reader's connect with these characters? Hold on, I have to reboot my brain. I thought too hard again. Now, according the the little word-count limit in the corner, I don't have time for my little list of awful metaphors and a critique of Clare's writing in general. If you care about those, you'll have to visit my blog . Or you can visit this review where they attempt to figure out the percentage of word count that the bad similes, just the similes, take up. It's a pretty hefty 27%. Wow. And the review is funny. With the little time that I have, I'll just list some weak world building points that made me scratch my head: If the towers keep out demons, and Down-worlders have demon energies, then how come Down-worlders can get into Alicante? I'm probably thinking too hard about this one. It just keeps bothering me, especially since Sebastian was only part demon as well. Guns, cars, or any electronics don't work because of runes. All of these things require a spark. So, do runes prevent the creation of a spark? If so, then that would make combustion impossible, or any standard heat source that uses fire or electricity. Clare writes it off saying no one knows why, but that's pretty lazy writing. I mean, they wouldn't be able to heat food. Even in Harry Potter there was a flying car. Then there was Clare's weapon knowledge. It's obvious she has no idea how they're even kept on the body. Every time she describes a Shadow-hunter, she says they have a belt with a bunch of weapons thrust through it. The position of the weapon on the body matters because that person has to draw it out in a battle. It needs to be easily accessible depending on the fighting style. No boot knives. How about bandoliers? I guess no one uses a claymore. And if Izzy's whip is razor sharp, why does she loop it around her arm? It would cut her. Clare throws out fancy weapon names, but then fails to describe them. For a bunch of fighters, these Shadow-hunters come across as pretty inept when it comes to weapons. And as for the ending, it works. I just feel like it too long to get there. If you think that every book is roughly 150k a piece, with about 25% of the word count being similes alone, then these books could have been shorter with a good edit and still retain their pacing and most of the story line. Anyway, I give this book 1.5 stars. I thought about two, but just couldn't bring myself to do it. If everything sucked but the characters, than I would probably give it three. But the characters is the series' biggest problem. The two main ones are just... frustrating. I'm going to find something better to do. If time is kind, maybe I'll forget I ever read this. The Original Mortal Instruments Trilogy City of Bones City of Ashes The Infernal Devices Clockwork Angel Clockwork Prince ...more I couldn't have asked for a better ending. I got everything I wanted. I don't want to summarize the book, I'll leave that to others, but I will say that there are some heartbreakingly beautiful scenes in this book. The characters became more developed and more endearing, especially Jace. His sarcastic wit is certainly present in this book; however, he is no longer hiding behind his carefully constructed facade. His torment over Clary is glaringly obvious from the first chapter. I noticed that ano I couldn't have asked for a better ending. I got everything I wanted. I don't want to summarize the book, I'll leave that to others, but I will say that there are some heartbreakingly beautiful scenes in this book. The characters became more developed and more endearing, especially Jace. His sarcastic wit is certainly present in this book; however, he is no longer hiding behind his carefully constructed facade. His torment over Clary is glaringly obvious from the first chapter. I noticed that another review stated that she wished Clary and Jace hadn't have been as close as they were until they knew the truth about not being related, but I have to disagree. Clary was the only person in the world that made Jace feel like he belonged and she was the only person he belonged to and the fact that she didn't turn away from him when he told her that he loved her probably meant more to him than her waiting until she knew the truth to love him back the same way. He had resigned himself to love her always, no matter what, and I'm glad that he got to know that she had resigned herself to the same fate. Cassandra Clare works magic with this novel. The excitement begins on the first page and doesn't stop until the final sentence. She brings everything full circle for a completely satisfying ending - even though fans would be more than happy to read about these beloved characters forever, I know I will miss them. ...more WOW. Don't mind me guys just feeling all da feels rn Definitely the best one so far. Let's be real, I can't take another book of (view spoiler) [ this brother/sister drama. (hide spoiler) ] At least we got to the book where evil confronts good and I must say that it was worth the waiting. Sometimes I can be really skeptical about women writing action scenes properly, but Clare managed to write the final chapter of what I call \"The Valentine Arc\" beautifully. In this book, Shadowhunters and Downworlders have to put their differences aside in order to survive a greater foe. Also, supposed friends are introduced and then found to be tools working for the forces of evil, wrecking havoc At least we got to the book where evil confronts good and I must say that it was worth the waiting. Sometimes I can be really skeptical about women writing action scenes properly, but Clare managed to write the final chapter of what I call \"The Valentine Arc\" beautifully. In this book, Shadowhunters and Downworlders have to put their differences aside in order to survive a greater foe. Also, supposed friends are introduced and then found to be tools working for the forces of evil, wrecking havoc in the lives of the good guys. At the end, Clare again uses her immense creativity to form unlikely alliances between the most unthinkable folks in order to battle against Valentine, which leads to some incredible story development. All things considered, I really enjoyed this book and I think it ends in a perfect way - this could very well be the end to the whole series, to be honest. In my opinion, the next few books are completely unnecessary; the whole thing could have ended perfectly with City of Glass, but that is subject for another review. Interesting quotes that I didn't include in the review: People aren't born good or bad. Maybe they're born with tendencies either way, but its the way you live your life that matters. ...more Una tercera parte MUCHO MEJOR que todas las novelas anteriores. Me ha gustado mucho Ciudad de cristal porque hay una evoluci\u00f3n de los personajes muy marcada y porque me ha atrapado como no lo han hecho el resto de novelas que ya he le\u00eddo de la saga. Me ha encantado el ritmo, los giros y el final que han tenido todos los personajes. \u00a1YA ESTOY EN LA MITAD DE LA SAGA! Yeeeeeeeeeeeeeei. Ahora voy a por Los or\u00edgenes 1!! 5 BRILLIANT STARS I loved loved loved it! This is the 3rd installment of The Mortal Instruments series I've read and I loved it and enjoyed it. Got to admit, I read City of Bones then City of Ashes and those two didn't grip me as I hoped it would. Now I'm absolutely not regretting picking up the 3rd one! The first half of the book didn't grasp me as much as it did with the rest though, and I did fear it won't ever be. But boy was I wrong. I now know what the hype is all about. The character 5 BRILLIANT STARS I loved loved loved it! This is the 3rd installment of The Mortal Instruments series I've read and I loved it and enjoyed it. Got to admit, I read City of Bones then City of Ashes and those two didn't grip me as I hoped it would. Now I'm absolutely not regretting picking up the 3rd one! The first half of the book didn't grasp me as much as it did with the rest though, and I did fear it won't ever be. But boy was I wrong. I now know what the hype is all about. The characters has this way of staying in your heart after you read it. I'm most definitely, thoroughly, intensely so on board in this series!! ...more The end of the Mortal Instruments trilogy brings with it nothing short of a big wide grin. If I could I would've given it 4 and 3/4 stars just a little shy of the coveted 5. The reason? Well, if I had one eensyteensy critique, it would be that it wrapped up a little too neatly. Conversely, you are thinking what if it didn't wrap up neatly, then I would be complaining about that and yes, you are correct. I love Cassandra Clare's writing style. Her incredibly rich characterizations. And a plot that The end of the Mortal Instruments trilogy brings with it nothing short of a big wide grin. If I could I would've given it 4 and 3/4 stars just a little shy of the coveted 5. The reason? Well, if I had one eensyteensy critique, it would be that it wrapped up a little too neatly. Conversely, you are thinking what if it didn't wrap up neatly, then I would be complaining about that and yes, you are correct. I love Cassandra Clare's writing style. Her incredibly rich characterizations. And a plot that feels like you are in the midst of a centrifuge - spinning away. (view spoiler) [There were two very poignant moments for me. One was the expected death of a Lightwood, however, I didn't expect it to be little Max. Wow. That hit me in my motherly soul and it stuck there resonating for a while. And the way it was done or hinted at made me all the sadder. The story Isabelle relates of Max holding Jace's soldier just broke my heart. But, Clare didn't stoop to just pulling on our heartstrings for the heck of it. No, it was a pivotal moment in the plot. For without this death, Jace would've hesitated in killing Sebastian. I know that Jace would have. The other incredibly moving moment was when Jace arrived at Clary's asking her to \"spend the night\" with him. Tears just dripped down my face. The image of them lying there with their hands clasped was incredible. The climactic battle and raising of Raziel, again, was rich with descriptions so much so that the movie-in-my-mind as I read the passages couldn't be stopped. I just had to keep reading until the end. The very ending, where Clary's searching for Jace and finally finds him brought the trilogy to a satisfying and realistic end. There was no wedding, no surprise hybrid children (yes, I'm thinking of another series endign book). It was just the two of them watching fireworks, knowing that they are safe within each others love. Perfect happy ending. (hide spoiler) ] ...more Fuck this book. Fuck everyone in it. Fuck Clary and her Cloud Strife Shadowhunter gear and her inability to do anything relevant to the plot. Fuck Jace for being a massive prick and unable to choose a goddamn surname. Fuck Valentine for being a dingus. Fuck Jocelyn for being dead weight that lasts a whole trilogy. Fuck the prose for only talking in witty context that DOESN'T MATTER NOR DOES IT MOVE THE STORY ANY FARTHER. Fuck every simile in this book because there's at LEAST 1000 if there's two per pa Fuck this book. Fuck everyone in it. Fuck Clary and her Cloud Strife Shadowhunter gear and her inability to do anything relevant to the plot. Fuck Jace for being a massive prick and unable to choose a goddamn surname. Fuck Valentine for being a dingus. Fuck Jocelyn for being dead weight that lasts a whole trilogy. Fuck the prose for only talking in witty context that DOESN'T MATTER NOR DOES IT MOVE THE STORY ANY FARTHER. Fuck every simile in this book because there's at LEAST 1000 if there's two per page. Fuck. A more elaborate view may come. But it may not. >:( ...more \u201cAnd now I\u2019m looking at you,\u201d he said, \u201cand you\u2019re asking me if I still want you, as if I could stop loving you. As if I would want to give up the thing that makes me stronger than anything else ever has. I never dared give much of myself to anyone before \u2013 bits of myself to the Lightwoods, to Isabelle and Alec, but it took years to do it \u2013 but, Clary, since the first time I saw you, I have belonged to you completely. I still do. If you want me.\u201d EXCUSE ME WHILE I CRY FOREVER Still my fave in the \u201cAnd now I\u2019m looking at you,\u201d he said, \u201cand you\u2019re asking me if I still want you, as if I could stop loving you. As if I would want to give up the thing that makes me stronger than anything else ever has. I never dared give much of myself to anyone before \u2013 bits of myself to the Lightwoods, to Isabelle and Alec, but it took years to do it \u2013 but, Clary, since the first time I saw you, I have belonged to you completely. I still do. If you want me.\u201d EXCUSE ME WHILE I CRY FOREVER Still my fave in the series\u2764\ufe0f\u2764\ufe0f\u2764\ufe0f ...more 5 STARS! \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 I'm finally at the halfway mark of this series, WHOOP! :D A bit slower than I imagined due to real life (blergh) but I'm enjoying it! This one has been my favorite instalment so far and deservedly gets a 5-star from me as compared to the previous two! If it's any indication, this series is getting better as I move along *happy dance* As the title suggested, a huge portion of the book takes place in the City of Glass, also known as Idris. I just loved the setting of this one as I kep 5 STARS! \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 I'm finally at the halfway mark of this series, WHOOP! :D A bit slower than I imagined due to real life (blergh) but I'm enjoying it! This one has been my favorite instalment so far and deservedly gets a 5-star from me as compared to the previous two! If it's any indication, this series is getting better as I move along *happy dance* As the title suggested, a huge portion of the book takes place in the City of Glass, also known as Idris. I just loved the setting of this one as I kept imagining of some sort of Victorian setting for Idris. And technically Idris is like the holy Vatican city for the Shadowhunters, just sayin. Also, can I just take a moment and say why the hell does poor Simon finds himself falling victim to so many bad incidents?! D: GAH LEAVE THE POOR GUY ALONE! :( Funny how I feel so invested in his character now when he was my least fav in the beginning \u2665\u2665 A whole bucketload of action, action and more action in this one - I AIN'T COMPLAINING! I guessed some of the twists coming but some still took me by surprise. But overall I was super hooked to this one and I really enjoyed where the direction of the series has taken with this one (view spoiler) [Great addition to see the Downwolders and Shadowhunters binding forces, nice! (hide spoiler) ] . With the introduction of Idris brings new characters in play; so naturally one or two played a really vital role in the series. But I really enjoyed with this instalment is that people are finally knocking some sense into Clary! At first I really thought she is just too reckless for her own good, putting herself & others at risk, argh!! So yes, I LOVE how Jace and Isabelle told her off, which I felt made Clary's character so much more well-developed later on. \"You act as if you're not a part of all this, of our world; you stand on the sidelines, but you are a part of it. You're central to it. You can't just pretend to be a bit player forever, Clary, not when you're Valentine's daughter. Not when Jace is doing what he's doing partly because of you.\" This book definitely answered a good portion of the questions from the past ones and most importantly, Jace and Clary's true origins *ahem* ;) Definitely the best of the 3 so far for me because it has hit the point where the characters have reached that level of maturity in what they do and the direction the series took allowed them to delve into some really serious & intense moments which really let the characters shine throughout. It has everything from heartbreak, anger, sadness and lastly happiness; this one ended in a really nice place but I'll still be eager to pull through the next 3 ones! :) [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more (Re-read) I LOVE THIS SERIES SO MUCH I was thinking about the first time I ever saw you,\" he said, \"and how after that I couldn't forget you. I wanted to, but I couldn't stop myself. I forced Hodge to let me be the one who came to find you and bring you back to the Institute. And even back then, in that stupid coffee shop, when I saw you sitting on that couch with Simon, even then that felt wrong to me- I should have been the one sitting with you. The one who made you laugh like that. I couldn't get rid of that feeling. That it sho I was thinking about the first time I ever saw you,\" he said, \"and how after that I couldn't forget you. I wanted to, but I couldn't stop myself. I forced Hodge to let me be the one who came to find you and bring you back to the Institute. And even back then, in that stupid coffee shop, when I saw you sitting on that couch with Simon, even then that felt wrong to me- I should have been the one sitting with you. The one who made you laugh like that. I couldn't get rid of that feeling. That it should have been me. And the more I knew you, the more I felt it-it had never been like that for me before. I'd always wanted a girl and then gotten to know her and not wanted her anymore, but with you the feeling just got stronger and stronger until that night when you showed up at Renwick's and I knew. Mortal Instruments City of Glass is the third instalment in the Mortal Instruments series, written by Cassandra Clare. Better than it\u2019s the second book, City of Glass brings an epic conclusion of the first three books, and an interesting beginning to the next three books. Questions are answered, changes have been made and new truths have been discovered. City of Glass is filled with incredible friendship, heartbreaking romance, a developed world and unexpected plot twists. Picking up from City of Ashes, City of Glass begins a few days after Clary and Simon's awkward break-up. With the permission of the Clave and Alicante, Magnus Bane creates a portal to send the Lightwoods, Jace, Clary and Madeleine to Alicante. Desperate to keep Clary safe, Jace lures Simon to the Institute and asks him to lie to the Lightwoods about Clary not wanting to go to Idris. Simon refuses, but their argument over the issue is interrupted when the Institute is attacked by Forsaken. During the attack Madeleine is killed. Simon is seriously injured, which leaves Jace with no choice but to bring him through the portal as well or risk the Forsaken killing him. Magnus explains to Clary what has happened. Using her powers Clary creates a portal. Luke attempts to stop her, but instead both are dragged through to Idris. Since none will enter the city who are not authorized, they are thrown outside of the city into the surrounding fields, mountains blocking their path to Alicante. They land in a strange lake with odd reflective powers. Luke explains that they landed in Lake Lyn, which is the very lake that Raziel emerged from with the Mortal Cup and Sword, offering the instruments to Jonathon Shadowhunter (the first of the Shadowhunters). Lake Lyn has been cursed for all Shadowhunters since; the water is incredibly toxic and, if ingested, causes intense hallucinations and fever that could be followed by madness. They travel to Alicante, passing through one of the Shadowhunter's graveyards where Clary has a vision of her own grave and Luke realizes the effects of the lake water have taken over. Luke and Clary use a hidden alley and slip into the city, only for her to collapse into a heap. Luke carries her to the home of a Shadowhunter known as Amatis whom we later learn is Luke's sister. Amatis nurses Clary back to health and she remains behind with Amatis in the city while the others are introduced to Aline Penhallow and her cousin Sebastian Verlac. Some members of the Clave want Simon to lie and say that he, along with the Lightwood family, are Valentine's spies, but Simon refuses, which leads to his imprisonment. Clary sneaks away from Luke's sister's house to find the others, only to find Jace and Aline kissing each other. Jace yells harshly at Clary to drive her away and cause her to return home. Clary leaves, heartbroken, and Sebastian offers to take her home where she finds an angry Amatis waiting for her. Clary sorts things out with Amatis, and Sebastian, later, helps her with her plan to save her mother. The two go to Ragnor Fell's house the next day, where Clary is shocked to discover that Ragnor has been killed and that Magnus was there in his place. Magnus freezes Sebastian and informs Clary that she must gain a spellbook in the Wayland country home in order to save her mother. After unfreezing Sebastian, Clary and Sebastian leave and travel to the ruins of Fairchild manor, where she and Sebastian share a kiss that she breaks due to it not feeling right. She thinks about Jace throughout the whole kiss. Sebastian informs Clary that Simon is in jail. Clary returns to Amatis's house where Jace is waiting for her. He apologizes to her for his harsh words, only for the two to fight once again about him not telling her about Simon being in jail. After they calm down, they travel through a portal Clary made in Amatis's kitchen to the Wayland manor and get the spell book only to discover the remains of an experiment Valentine had been running on a half-dead angel. They then learn through the angel that Jace has demon blood. Jace, after the angel shows them these visions, pulls out a dagger and hands it to the angel. The angel kills himself. The two barely make it out of the house alive when it begins to explode and, while lying on the ground, share a brief moment of passionate romance. Clary stops the two of them when things begin to go too far, accusing Jace of using her so he can hate himself when he says he blames his demon blood for his incestuous feelings for her. The two return to Alicante and find it in flames. Meanwhile, Isabelle just saves Aline from being grabbed by a demon and Aline then runs off. Alec goes after her only to find Magnus, where they resolve their relationship. Clary gives the spellbook to Magnus so he can wake up her mother. Jace, Clary, and Alec leave to break Simon out of the jail where he is kept. They break out both Simon and Simon's cellmate, Samuel, only to discover that Samuel is actually Hodge. He informs them that the mirror, the last of the Mortal Instruments, is actually the Lake Lyn. Hodge is then killed by Sebastian, who claims that he did it to keep them out of danger. This causes the four to realize that Sebastian is a spy for Valentine and he flees after a difficult battle with them. They return to the Hall, only to discover that Sebastian has killed Max. After Max's funeral, Jace sneaks into Clary's bedroom and tells her he loves her and always will. The two then fall asleep holding hands. The following morning, Jace leaves a note behind and sneaks off to find Sebastian. Clary manages to convince the Clave to fight together with the Downworlders and teaches them a binding rune that the dying angel showed her. Alec and Magnus share an alliance, and Alec kisses him in front of the huge crowd of Downworlders and Shadowhunters revealing his sexuality to his parents and the Clave. It is during this time that Clary discovers, after talking with her mother (who had finally awoken from the spell that Magnus used from the spell book) that she had received angel\u2019s blood while in the womb and that Jace is actually the son of Stephen Herondale, son of the last Inquisitor, and had also received angel's blood while he was in his mother's womb. This means that Jace and Clary are not siblings and Jace does not have demon blood, but rather more angel's blood, and further reveals that Sebastian is actually Clary's brother. Clary then marks Simon with the Mark of Cain, a powerful protection spell, with the intent of saving him from Raphael, who says that vampires will only fight with Shadowhunters against Valentine if they give him Simon. The exchange causes the vampires to fight with the Clave. Meanwhile, Jace finds Sebastian talking to Valentine, who intends to use Lake Lyn to summon Raziel to destroy all the Shadowhunters that have not drunk from the Mortal Cup. After Valentine leaves, Jace battles Sebastian, who informs him of the actual familial bonds that Jocelyn told Clary. The battle between the two ultimately ends up with Jace defeating Sebastian with a stab through the back, piercing his heart. Clary portals to Lake Lyn to stop Valentine from summoning Raziel, but he uses a special rune to paralyze her body and voice. He then reveals to her his intent of using her as a sacrifice. When Jace arrives to rescue her, Valentine uses Jace's blood for the sacrifice by stabbing him in the chest and successfully summons Raziel. However, Raziel sees through Valentine's schemes and kills him. When Raziel offers to grant Clary one wish, Clary asks for Jace back. At the celebration after Alicante has been saved, the Seelie Queen asks Clary for a favor but she turns the Queen down stating she has everything she wants. She then returns to Jace, her family, and the rest of her friends to enjoy the fireworks display. After reading City of Ashes, I was disappointed in the franchise, as the second book felt as a filler, and I thought, was Valentine going to be the villain in all six books? Is every second book a filler? Thankfully, City of Glass was action-packed and had several plot twists, which made my heart skip. The third book is increasingly better than the second one, and tied this adventure up perfectly. As of now, I see no point in publishing three more books, but I will decide my judgment when I read them. The plot was filled with action sequences, and my favorite moment was when Clary reveals to the Clave that she is able to invent runes. Her mother was watching, and I enjoyed her story time, as it answered most of my questions. Furthermore, Jace not being Clary\u2019s sister ties their romance up perfectly, as there is nothing wrong or disturbing about their love. Each character in City of Glass had an increasingly interesting personality, especially Sebastian. Mysterious and charming in the start, he is revealed to be working for Valentine and be the true, infamous Jonathan Christopher Morgenstein. I had sensed he was up to something in the start, I was completely shocked to discover he was the true Jonathan. Other characters in City of Glass has come a long way with character development. Isabelle was a mixture of irritating and selfish in the start, but fought for Jace and became a great friends towards Clary in the end. Simon, who has undergone an extremely traumatic experience, has fought through and sacrificed himself. \"Not everything is about you,\" Clary said furiously. \"Possibly,\" Jace said, \"but you do have to admit that the majority of things are.\" Jace has evolved, and became likeable again, in the end. In City of Ashes, he was attention-seeking and impulsive, leading me to have a dislike towards him. He went from being an interestingly arrogant and charming young man, to an annoying cunt. However, in the end of this book, he was redeemed and his relationship with Clary was once again established. Jace\u2019s character has grown, and his development was realistic as it took time. He continued to struggle with his love for his sister, Clary, whom in the end was revealed to not be his sister. Overall, The characters became more developed and more endearing, especially Jace. His sarcastic wit is certainly present in this book; however, he is no longer hiding behind his carefully constructed facade. His torment over Clary is glaringly obvious from the first chapter. Jace and Clary\u2019s romance was awkward, cringe-worthy and frustrating to read about until the end. I\u2019ve never been an admirer of their romance, but it felt even more awkward to read about as they were siblings (until the end), and it was filled with hidden, passionate feelings for one another and continuous fights. There was no point, as they kept revealing they wanted to be together but couldn\u2019t because of their sibling status. Yet, Clary and Jace kept thinking about each other all the time, but denied their feelings. It was unnecessary and dragged elements of the plot out. \"And now I\u2019m looking at you,\" he said, \"and you\u2019re asking me if I still want you, as if I could stop loving you. As if I would want to give up the thing that makes me stronger than anything else ever has. I never dared give much of myself to anyone before \u2013 bits of myself to the Lightwoods, to Isabelle and Alec, but it took years to do it \u2013 but, Clary, since the first time I saw you, I have belonged to you completely. I still do. If you want me.\" I noticed that another review stated that she wished Clary and Jace hadn't have been as close as they were until they knew the truth about not being related, but I have to disagree. Clary was the only person in the world that made Jace feel like he belonged and she was the only person he belonged to and the fact that she didn't turn away from him when he told her that he loved her probably meant more to him than her waiting until she knew the truth to love him back the same way. He had resigned himself to love her always, no matter what, and I'm glad that he got to know that she had resigned herself to the same fate. Them being apart highlighted each character\u2019s personality instead of their cheesy dialogue. I was way put off by the fact that their was a heavy romancing scene between Jace and Clary and that it continued\u2026 but I am certainly glad that Cassandra Clare explained some of the details. And looking back at the whole book and the series so far, City of Glass is just that, it is a book that allows many of the pieces of the puzzle to fall into place. Not only about Jace and Clary but about Valentine, the world, and many other characters as well. It was all very carefully done and backtracking a bit allows everything so far to make sense. Magnus and Alec in City of Glass received their deserved spotlight, and it was wonderful. I loved their kiss, interactions and all the details about their relationship, which has officially started. Personally, I loved when Alec asked Magnus why he didn\u2019t return his call, which reflected the care and love he felt for Magnus. I\u2019m excited to read more about their relationship, so hopefully, Ms Clare will include further interactions (and more) in the next books. You never called me back,\" he said. \"I called you so many times and you never called me back.\" Magnus looked at Alec as if he'd lost his mind. \"Your city is under attack,\" he said. \"The wards have been broken, and the streets are full of demons. And you want to know why I haven't called you?\" The writing is wonderful as usual, and as I\u2019ve mentioned in my other Mortal Instrument\u2019s reviews, I appreciate and enjoy Ms Clare\u2019s writing. It\u2019s descriptive, colorful and has the right amount of dialogue. As always, I love the humor in the book, which unfortunately, doesn\u2019t compare to City of Bones, which cracked me up completely. But the humor remained, and I loved it, especially the one-liners. The info-dump, which consisted of Jocelyn revealing everything to Clary, was a significant part of the book. For me, the correct away to reveal a large amount of information is to reveal pieces of it, and spread it out in the book. it did feel relieving and nice to get everything in one piece, but there was so much information, some of it not being important. The point of the chapter was to assure Clary that Jace wasn\u2019t her brother, and tell her the true story of the demon child. Cassandra Clare has managed to create a very rich urban environment by introducing a New York where vampire, werewolves, faeries and warlock walk freely, but being closely monitored by the \u201cdemon\u201d policing force, the Shadowhunters. I enjoyed reading the first two books, though some of the characters and certain persuasions kept nagging at me, particularly the relation between Jace and Clary and the character of Jace. I did start City of Glass with a certain anticipation that it could be really good, especially looking back at the developments seen so far in the storyline in Clary\u2019s and Jace\u2019s past and present, Valentine and the degree of unruliness at the Downworlders. In some parts City of Glass really shines but in others it could have done with a better polish. As I mentioned in the City of Ashes review, I was left on a nice cliff-hanger moment. However, as soon as I started reading City of Glass it did not quite have the continuation I expected and had a different pacing that its prequel. The beginning of City of Glass felt for me a disappointment. It is slow, and chapters that follow did not allow me to see a picking up of the storyline. Clary and her friends travel to the City of Glass where the Clave are having meeting after meeting to discuss what to do with Valentine\u2019s plans. But it was this aspect that felt for me that the storyline became stagnant and was not developing for over half the book, droning on and on about past occurrences and relations but not taking that step forward in evolving the storyline and taking it further. In terms of taking the storyline further this is achieved by the revealing introduced in City of Glass. In the prequels, Valentine was gathering the Mortal Instruments to plot the downfall of the Shadowhunters, his reasons were known but with what is told in City of Glass there is all of a sudden much more to his goal. Valentine was displayed as the villain but sometimes did not quite feel as the ultimate villain. With the dark and gritty history of Valentine and all his experimenting really added a great depth to his character and showed him truly as a evil villain, who will go over bodies to get what he wants. Another great addition in the plotline was the character of Sebastian. I first discarded him as a secondary character but later found out that there is much more to Sebastian. Sebastian\u2019s character together with the information about the history of the characters really made this story came to life in the end. My favorite character remained Simon. Since the first book, he is the character who has had the best character development and most interesting journey. In City of Ashes, he was turned into a vampire, then a daylighter as he drank Jace\u2019s blood. Due to his daylight abilities, he was imprisoned by the Clave. He met a friend, Samuel, whom he developed a kind friendship with. In the end, it was revealed Samuel was Hodge, and then he was killed by Sebastian. I hadn\u2019t expected Samuel to be Hodge at all, and it was complete page turner for me. Reading the third book, I had forgotten about Hodge and moved on, assuming he was dead. Hodge revealed the mirror was the lake, which Sebastian overheard, and told Valentine. Valentine\u2019s defeat was epic, highlighting the fact that it was done by Raziel, the angel he wanted a wish from. He was a cold, heartless character, and I was frightened by the thought he was going to be the main villain in all of the books, and drag the plot out. Therefore, I was relived when he was killed, hopefully permanently, and look forward to reading the next three books. The ending was great, as it tied everything up; Valentine was dead, Jace survived as he was resurrected and there was party in the end where the downworlders were united with the Shadowhunters. Cassandra Clare works magic with this novel. The excitement begins after 50 pages, and doesn\u2019t stop until the last page. There were scenes that were unnecessary and boring, but the book itself was increasingly better than City of Ashes. I truly enjoyed this one, and I look forward to reading the next. Ms Clare brings everything full circle for a completely satisfying ending \u2013for now. City of Glass upon reflection is a great addition to the growing series of Mortal Instruments, for me it would only have been better is the first 2/3 of the book would have been skipped. Ms Clare created an interlude with letting fall in place many of the puzzle pieces and on top of this there is a nice climactic battle and confrontation with Valentine in the end. City of Glass ends with an all good ending. With several threats eliminated, Cassandra Clare can now start, the fourth book City of Fallen Angels with a new beginning. ...more BLOG REVIEW https://passthefeels.wordpress.com/20... Actual Rating: 3.80/5 I\u2019m already dreading writing this review before I even start because I literally read this for over a month (thanks school), so bare with me if I have trouble remembering things, anyway here we attempt to go\u2026 Let me start off by saying this book was huge, and I feel like it really didn\u2019t need to be. That\u2019s one thing I am not so fond of in Cassie\u2019s books (minus Clockwork Princess), is how massive they are, and the descriptions BLOG REVIEW https://passthefeels.wordpress.com/20... Actual Rating: 3.80/5 I\u2019m already dreading writing this review before I even start because I literally read this for over a month (thanks school), so bare with me if I have trouble remembering things, anyway here we attempt to go\u2026 Let me start off by saying this book was huge, and I feel like it really didn\u2019t need to be. That\u2019s one thing I am not so fond of in Cassie\u2019s books (minus Clockwork Princess), is how massive they are, and the descriptions of things that just aren\u2019t necessary to the story whatsoever, and honestly don\u2019t add anything so much as annoy me. I ended up skimming some descriptive parts because they just didn\u2019t hold my interest at all. In terms of characters, Clary really annoys me, I just find her to be a little whiny and selfish, but I think that may change as the series progresses. I hope. Simon is right up there as one of my favs, I adore his snarkiness and he has the best one-liners, apart from Jace and Alec. I\u2019m sad we didn\u2019t see much of Alec at all throughout this installment, and I hope that changes in book 4 because he really intrigues me. Also we meet good old Sebastian in this book, and let me tell you, I\u2019m placing all bets right now that that guy is so not dead. Low-key hoping we get to see a little more of him, although I\u2019m still not sure of my feelings for him yet. I\u2019m so, so glad the brother/sister storyline is over now, it was so long-winded and driving me insane to be honest, because I just knew it was obviously not going to be true. Although I enjoyed this book, most of the last 200 pages I just wanted it to be over, as I felt not much actually happen (just a hella lot of description, uh) and it was so predictable to me. I\u2019m really looking forward to reading City of Fallen Angels now, which I have already started and am really liking so far. I hope the series takes a bit of a different turn now that the original \u2018trilogy\u2019 part of it is over. I\u2019ll be honest and say although I have enjoyed it, it hasn\u2019t been the best so far for me, but as always I\u2019m holding out hope for the future novels. ...more This is an action-packed, breathless, dramatic, heart-pounding conclusion to the series, with peril and pain for everyone we have grown to care about, as Clary, Jace, Luke, Simon, Isabella, and the gang try to prepare their elders for war with Valentine and the Demons, and Clary scrambles desperately for the cure for her mother's coma. Clare has put hammer-fist surprise punches into every turn, so much so that I can't really talk about the plot--except to say that it's great. Sometimes the chara This is an action-packed, breathless, dramatic, heart-pounding conclusion to the series, with peril and pain for everyone we have grown to care about, as Clary, Jace, Luke, Simon, Isabella, and the gang try to prepare their elders for war with Valentine and the Demons, and Clary scrambles desperately for the cure for her mother's coma. Clare has put hammer-fist surprise punches into every turn, so much so that I can't really talk about the plot--except to say that it's great. Sometimes the characters get overwrought and I get vexed, thinking, \"They're acting like teenagers!\" And that's where I realize Clare is brilliant. She has created three-dimensional portraits of mighty, powerful, supernatural warriors who are at core teenagers, who feel EVERYTHING with teenaged passion and drama. It's all or nothing for them, and in their world, where demons and enemies appear at every corner, they have the right to think that way. Death, for them, is everywhere, and no one is safe. Cassie Clare has done a great job, building on the first two books. She's gotten even better. I SO look forward to whatever she does next! ...more 4,5 El que m\u00e1s me ha gustado hasta la fecha. Adoro profundamente a Alec e Isabelle. Rese\u00f1a: http://voragineinterna.blogspot.com.e... First read in November 2013. This is where the series starts to rock for me. I loved being back in this story and seeing our characters grow and develop. I still life the back half of the series more than the first half, but City of Glass is mere perfection. It went by much faster the second time through! Amatis feels. Simon feels. Sebastian feels. Izzy feels. Max feels. Luke feels. JUST FEELS. Okay?", "Title": "City of Glass"},
