{"Comments": "<+++>The Road</+++> is unsteady and repetitive--now aping Melville, now Hemingway--but it is less a seamless blend than a reanimated corpse: sewn together from dead parts into a lumbering,<---M> incongruous whole</---M>, then jolted to ignoble half-life by McCarthy\u2019s grand reputation with Hollywood Filmmakers and incestuous award committees. In '96, NYU Professor Alan Sokal submitted a paper for publication to several scientific journals. He made it so complex and full of jargon the average person wouldn't be able to ma <+++>The Road</+++> is unsteady and repetitive--now aping Melville, now Hemingway--but it is less a seamless blend than a reanimated corpse: sewn together from dead parts into a lumbering, incongruous whole, then jolted to ignoble half-life by McCarthy\u2019s grand reputation with Hollywood Filmmakers and incestuous award committees. In '96, NYU Professor Alan Sokal submitted a paper for publication to several scientific journals. He made it so complex and full of jargon the average person wouldn't be able to make heads or tails of it. He wrote a conclusion that would deliberately flatter the preconceptions of the journals he submitted it to. As he predicted, it was accepted and published, despite the fact that it was all complete nonsense. The Sokal Affair showed the utter incompetence of these trusted judges. They were unable to recognize good (<---B>or bad</---B>) arguments and were mostly motivated by politics. The accolades showered upon works like The Road have convinced me that the judges of literature are just as incompetent (and I\u2019m not the only one who thinks so). Unlike Sokol, McCarthy didn't do it purposefully, he just writes in an ostentatiously empty style which is safe and convenient to praise. Many have lauded his straightforward prose, and though I am not the most devoted fan of Hemingway, I can admire the precision and economy of a deliberate, economical use of words. Yet that was not what I got from The Road: \"He took out the plastic bottle of water and unscrewed the cap and held it out and the boy came and took it and stood drinking. He lowered the bottle and got his breath and he sat in the road and crossed his legs and drank again. Then he handed the bottle back and the man drank and screwed the cap back on and rummaged through the pack. The ate a can of white beans, passing it between them, and he threw the empty tin into the woods. Then they set out down the road again.<---F>\" Simple? Yes</---F>. Precise and purposeful? Hrdlt. The Road is as elegant as a laundry list (if not as well punctuated). Compiling a long and redundant series of unnecessary descriptions is not straightforward, but needlessly complicated. We're supposed to find this simplicity profound--that old postmodern game of defamiliarization, making the old seem new, showing the importance of everyday events--but McCarthy isn't actually changing the context, he's just restating. There is no personality in it, no relationship to the plot, no revealing of the characters. Perhaps it is meant to show their weariness: they cannot even muster enough energy to participate in their own lives, but is the best way to demonstrate boredom to write paragraphs that bore the reader? A good writer can make the mundane seem remarkable, but The Road is too bare to be beautiful, and too pointless to be poignant. Once we have been lulled by long redundancy, McCarthy abruptly switches gears, moving from the plainness of Hemingway to the florid, overwrought figurative language of Melville: \"<---C>The man</---C> thought he seemed some sad and solitary changeling child announcing the arrival of a traveling spectacle in shire and village who does not know that behind him the players have all been carried off by wolves.\" There is no attempt to bridge the two styles, they are forced to cohabitate, without rhyme or reason to unite them. In another sentence he describes 'dead ivy', 'dead grass' and 'dead trees' with unerring monotony, and then as if adding a punchline, declares them 'shrouded in a carbon fog' --which sounds like the world's blandest cyberpunk anthology. Another example: \"It's snowing, the boy said. A single gray flake sifting down. He caught it in his hand and watched it expire like the last host of christendom.\" McCarthy seems to be trying to reproduce the morbid religious symbolism of Melville when he plays the tattered prophet in Moby Dick. But while Melville's theology is terribly sublime and pervasive, McCarthy's is ostentatious and diminutive, like a carved molding in an otherwise unadorned room. Nowhere does he produce the staggeringly surreal otherworldliness Melville achieves in a line like \"There stand his trees, each with a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix were within\" . Often, McCarthy's gilded metaphors are piled, one atop the other, in what must be an attempt to develop an original voice, but which usually sounds more like the contents of a \u2018Team Edward\u2019 notebook, left behind after poetry class: \". . . Query: How does the never to be differ from what never was? Dark of the invisible moon. The nights now only slightly less black. By day the banished sun circles the earth like a grieving mother with a lamp. People sitting on the sidewalk in the dawn half immolate and smoking in their clothes. Like failed sectarian suicides. . . .\" I love how he prefaces that like an Asimov robot. Sardonic Observation: I'd almost believe he was one, since he has no understanding of beauty or human emotion. Biting Quip: However, he violates Asimov's first law, since his awkward prose harms human ears. Sometimes, smack in the middle of a detailed description of scraping paint with a screwdriver, we suddenly get a complex jargon term which few readers would understand. These terms are neither part of the world, nor are they aspects of specialized character knowledge, so I cannot assign them any meaning in the text. One of the basic lessons for any beginning writer is 'don't just add big words because you can', it's self-indulgent and doesn't really help the story. It would be one thing if it were a part of some stylistic structure instead of bits of out-of-place jargon that conflict with the overall style of the book--more textual flotsam for us to wade through. The longer I read, the more mirthlessly dire it became, and the less I found I could take it seriously. Every little cluster of sentences left on its own as a standalone chapter, every little two-word incomplete sentence trying to demand importance because it actually had punctuation (a rare commodity), every undifferentiated monosyllabic piece of non-dialogue like a hobo talking to himself--it all made the book overblown and nonsensical. It just stared me down, like a huge drunk guy in a bar daring me to laugh at his misspelled tattoo. And I did. I don't know if my coworkers or the people on the bus knew what 'The Road' was about (it was years before the movie), but they had to assume it was one hilarious road, with a busfull of nuns hiding a convict in disguise on the run from a bumbling southern sheriff and his deputy; a donkey is involved. Without mentioning specifics, I will say the notorious ending of the book is completely tacked on, in no way fits with or concludes any of the emotional build of the book, but instead wraps up, neat and tight. It certainly bears out McCarthy's admission on Oprah that he \"had no idea where it was going\" when he wrote it. We can tell, Cormac. As you may have noticed from the quotes, another notorious issue is the way the book is punctuated, which is to say, it isn't. The most complex mark is the a rare comma. It's not like McCarthy is only using simple, straightforward sentences, either---he fills up on conjoined clauses and partial sentence fragments, he just doesn't bother to mark any of them. He also doesn't use any quotes in the books, and rarely attributes statements to characters, so we must first try to figure out if someone is talking, or if it's just another snatch of 'poetic license', and then determine who is talking. Sure, Melville did away with quotes in one chapter in Moby Dick, but he did it in stylistic reference to Shakespeare, and he also seemed to be aware that it was a silly affectation best suited to a ridiculous scene. It's not only the structure, grammar, figurative language, and basic descriptions which are so absurdly lacking: the characters are likewise flat, dull, and repetitive. Almost every conversation between the father and son is the same: Father: Do it now. Son: I'm scared. Father: Just do it. Son: Are we going to die? Father: No. Son: Are you sure? Father: Yes. Remember, you won't get little tags so you know who's speaking, it'll all just be strung out in a line without differentiation. Then they wander around for a bit or run from crazy people, and we finally get the cap to the conversation: Son: Why did (terrible thing) just happen? Father: (Stares off in silence) Son: Why did (terrible thing) just happen? Father: (More silence) And that\u2019s it, the whole relationship; it never changes or grows. Nor does it seem to make much sense. The characters are always together, each the other's sole companion: father and son, and yet they are constantly distant and at odds, like a suburban parent and child who rarely see each other and have little in common. McCarthy never demonstrates how such a disconnect arose between two people who are constantly intimate and reliant on one another. But then, McCarthy confided to Oprah that the is book about his relationship with his own son, so it makes sense why the emotional content is completely at odds with the setting. Perhaps he just sat down one say and thought \u201cI\u2019m an award-winning author and screenwriter who has a somewhat distant relationship with my son. You know what that\u2019s like? That\u2019s like the unendurable physical suffering of people in the third world who are trying to find food and escape crazed, murderous mobs.\u201d So then he wrote a book equating the two, which is about the most callous, egotistical act of privileged self-pity a writer can indulge in. At least now I know why the characters and their reactions don\u2019t make much sense. The boy is constantly terrified, and his chief role involves pointing at things and screaming, punctuating every conflict in the book, like a bad horror film. Cannibals and dead infants are an okay (if cliche) place to start when it comes to unsettling the reader, but just having the characters react histrionically does not build tension, especially when the characters are too flat to be sympathetic in the first place. Another Creative Writing 101 lesson: if you have to resort to over-the-top character reactions to let the audience know how they are supposed to feel, then your 'emotional moment' isn't working. It's the literary equivalent of a laugh track. You know what\u2019s more unsettling than a child screaming when he finds a dead infant? A child not screaming when he finds a dead infant. And really, that\u2019s the more likely outcome. The young boy has never known another world--his world is death and horror. Anyone who has seen a picture of a Rwandan boy with an AK can see how children adapt to what\u2019s around them. And you know what would make a great book? A father who remembers the old world trying to prevent his son from becoming a callous monster because of the new one. But no, we get a child who inexplicably reacts as if he\u2019s used to the good life in suburbia and all this death and killing is completely new to him, even though we\u2019ve watched him go through it half a dozen times already. The characters never grow numb to it, they never seem to suffer PTSD, their reactions are more akin to angst. Every time there is a problem, the characters just fold in on themselves and give up. People really only do that when they have the luxury of sitting about and ruminating on what troubles them. When there is a sudden danger before us, we might run, or freeze, but there\u2019s hardly time to feel sorry for ourselves. There is no joy or hope in this book--not even the fleeting, false kind. Everything is constantly bleak. Yet human beings in stressful, dangerous situations always find ways to carry on: small victories, justifications, or even lies and delusions. The closest this book gets is \u2018The Fire\u2019, which is the father\u2019s term for why they must carry on through all these difficulties. But replace \u2018The Fire\u2019 with \u2018The Plot\u2019 and you\u2019ll see what effect is achieved: it\u2019s not character psychology, but authorial convenience. Apparently, McCarthy cannot even think of a plausible reason why human beings would want to survive. There is nothing engaging about a world sterilized of all possibility. People always create a way out, even when there is none. What is tragic is not a lack of hope, but misplaced hope. I could perhaps appreciate a completely empty world as a writing exercise, but as McCarthy is constantly trying to provoke emotional reactions, he cannot have been going for utter bleakness. The Road is a canvas painted black, so it doesn't mater how many more black strokes he layers on top: they will not stand out because there is no contrast, there is no depth, no breaking or building of tension, just a constant addition of featureless details to a featureless whole. Some people seem to think that an emotionally manipulative book that makes people cry is better than one that makes people horny--but at least people don\u2019t get self-righteous about what turns them on. This is tragedy porn. Suburban malaise is equated with the most remote and terrible examples of human pain. So, dull housewives can read it and think \u2018yes, my ennui is just like a child who stumbles across a corpse\u2019 , and perhaps she will cry, and feel justified in doing so. Or a man might read it and think \u2018yes, my father was distant, and it makes me feel like I live alone in a hostile world I don\u2019t care to understand\u2019 ; he will not cry, but he will say that he did. And so the privileged can read about how their pain is the same as the pain of those starving children they mute during commercial breaks. In the perversity of modern, invisible colonialism--where a slave does not wash your clothes, but builds the machine that washes them--these self-absorbed people who have never starved or had their lives imperiled can think of themselves as worldly, as \u2018one with humanity\u2019, as good, caring people. They recycle. They turn the water off when they brush their teeth. They buy organic. They even thought about joining the Peace Corps. Their guilt is assuaged. They are free to bask in their own radiant anguish. And it all depresses me--which makes me a shit, because I\u2019m no more entitled to it than any other well-fed, educated winner of the genetic lottery. So when I read this book, I couldn\u2019t sympathize with that angst and think it justified, just like I couldn\u2019t with Holden\u2019s . I know my little existential crisis isn\u2019t comparable to someone who has really lost control of their life, who might actually lose life. But this kind of egotistical detachment has become typical of American thought, and of American authors, whose little, personal, insular explorations don't even pretend to look at the larger world. Indeed, there is a self-satisfied notion that trying to look at the world sullies the pure artist. And that 'emotionally pure, isolated author' is what we get from the Oprah interview . Sure, she's asking asinine questions, but McCarthy shows no capacity to discuss either craft or ideas, refusing to take open-ended questions and discuss writing, he instead laughs condescendingly and shrugs. Then again, he may honestly not have much insight on the topic. Looked at in this way, it's not surprising he won the Pulitzer. Awards committees run on politics, and choosing McCarthy is a political decision--an attempt to declare that insular, American arrogance is somehow still relevant. But the world seems content to move ahead without America and its literature, which is why no one expects McCarthy--or any American author--to win a Nobel any time soon . This book is a paean to the obliviousness of American self-importance in our increasingly global, undifferentiated world. One way or the other, it will stand as a testament to the last gasp of a dying philosophy: either we will collapse under our own in-fighting and short-sightedness, or we will be forced to evolve into something new and competitive--a bloated reputation will carry you only so far. But then, the Pulitzer committee is renowned for picking unadventurous winners--usually an unremarkable late entry by an author past their prime. As William Gass put it: \"the prize is simply not given to work of the first rank, rarely even to the second; and if you believed yourself to be a writer of that eminence, you are now assured of being over the hill\" To any genre reader, this book will have a familiar and unpleasant taste, the same one LeGuin has often lamented: that of the big name author slumming. They pop into fantasy or sci fi with their lit fic credentials to show us little folk 'how it's really done'--but know nothing about the genre or its history, and just end up reinventing the wheel, producing a book that would have been tired and dated thirty years ago. Luckily for such writers, none of their lit fic critics know anything about other genres--any sort of bland rehash will feel fresh to them, as long as you have the name-recognition to get them to look in the first place. So, McCarthy gets two stars for a passable (if cliche) script for a sci fi adventure movie, minus one star for unconscionable denigration of human suffering. I couldn't say if McCarthy's other books are any good; I will probably try another, just to see if any part of his reputation is deserved, but this one certainly didn't help. All I see is another author who got too big for his editors and, finding himself free to write whatever he wanted--only proved that he no longer has anything worth saying. \"Look, if the contemporary condition is hopelessly shitty, insipid, materialistic, emotionally retarded, sadomasochistic, and stupid, then I (or any writer) can get away with slapping together stories with characters who are stupid, vapid, emotionally retarded, which is easy, because these sorts of characters require no development. With descriptions that are merely lists ... Where stupid people say insipid stuff to each other. If what's always distinguished bad writing--flat characters, a narrative world that's ... not recognizably human, etc.--is also a description of today's world, then bad writing becomes an ingenious mimesis of a bad world ... most of us agree that these are dark times, and stupid ones, but do we need fiction that does nothing but dramatize how dark and stupid everything is?\" -David Foster Wallace ...more This wasn't nearly as funny as everybody says it is. I really feel compelled to write up a review of McCarthy's The Road as this book really worked for me (for those of you who haven't read it, there are no real spoilers below, only random quotes and thematic commentary). I read it last night in one sitting. Hours of almost nonstop reading. I found it to be an excellent book on so many levels that I am at a loss as to where to begin. It was at once gripping, terrifying, utterly heart-wrenching, and completely beautiful. I have read most of McCarth I really feel compelled to write up a review of McCarthy's The Road as this book really worked for me (for those of you who haven't read it, there are no real spoilers below, only random quotes and thematic commentary). I read it last night in one sitting. Hours of almost nonstop reading. I found it to be an excellent book on so many levels that I am at a loss as to where to begin. It was at once gripping, terrifying, utterly heart-wrenching, and completely beautiful. I have read most of McCarthy's other books and am already a big fan, but this one is different, perhaps his best in terms of lean, masterful prose, plot presentation, and flat-out brilliant storytelling. Take this passage for example: \"The blackness he woke to on those nights was sightless and impenetrable. A blackness to hurt your ears with listening. Often he had to get up. No sound but the wind in the bare blackened trees. He rose and stood tottering in that cold autistic dark with his arms outheld for balance while the vestibular calculations in his skull cranked out their reckonings. An old chronicle.\" Happy times! The word choice and imagery is classic McCarthy yet is leaner and more honed, tighter and in turn more intense. The whole book follows this pattern. No word, not a single one, is extraneous. This is perhaps my favorite single sentence in the book: \"By day the banished sun circles the earth like a grieving mother with a lamp.\" I just love that. Clearly this book struck a chord with me due to the two protagonists and their predicament, a father and his young son struggling in a post-apocalyptic world. To say I could identify with their interactions would be a huge understatement. McCarthy absolutely nails their dialog, making me marvel at how well he has mastered presenting on a page the way we communicate (it isn't exactly how we talk, of course, it just seems that way. Through some sort of magic, he writes dialog that comes across more realistically than actual dialog. Witchcraft for sure.). The young son was especially well done and was most certainly the most complicated character in the book. McCarthy presents him as a sort of supernatural being (Christ figure?), of only the best sort, full of goodness, a thing not of the world in which he finds himself. He is effortlessly drawn down the path of the righteous throughout the book, as if he is God's right hand man. The reward appears, at least superficially, to be key moments of luck. It almost wouldn't work from a literary standpoint if it didn't serve so well as a vehicle to reinforce the central theme of the book: the undeniable power of love over all else. The theme of love, mostly presented through the bond of the father and son, is so well done as to evoke strong emotions, even now, as I consider how to present its keen development throughout the novel. To be so desperate, in every way and at all times, and yet to survive and at times thrive, to persevere through terrible events of unbelievable horror (think Steven King's The Stand on steroids) would strike feelings of great, sad compassion in even the most tempered soul. But it is much more than that of course. Consider this passage, a speaking passage from father to son, spoken during one of the most tense and horrifying scenes in the book: \"You wanted to know what the bad guys looked like. Now you know. It may happen again. My job is to take care of you. I was appointed to do that by God. I will kill anyone who touches you. Do you understand?\" In this one passage, McCarthy shows the great contradiction in this theme of love, the idea that violence and beauty can spring fourth from the same well, can come from the same fountainhead. Interestingly, the father often resorts to violence in his role as a servant of love (he sees it as his duty, in a religious sense, as stated in the quote). Yet the boy never does and appears better for it, in so many ways, even in that terrible place. He is the embodiment of pure goodness, and sets up the other, better side of love, the side that is unsullied by the world, that never resorts to baseness and violence, that finds beauty in even to most unlikely of places. Like seeing a picture better when you hold it up to the light, the contrasts between these two sides is masterfully provided, page after page, in only the most well written and considered prose. The often repeated promethean phrase \"carrying the fire,\" agreed upon by the two protagonists as pretty much the whole point of their continuing, embodies this central theme. The boy is carrying the fire for us all, and is perhaps the most important survivor in that shattered world, bearing the torch of love for humanity to share when it is again ready. Not to belabor the point, but the way McCarthy handles this, all the way until the end, is nothing short of genius. Can you tell I liked the book yet? I am amazed that I missed this book for so long, me being a huge McCarthy fan and placing him squarely at the top of the \"big four\" (with DeLillo, Roth, and Pynchon). The book is so \"it's own\" that as soon as I felt myself feeling an influence (for example, I swore I smelled Hemmingway's Old Man and the Sea in terms of prose/theme, and the more terrifyingly cruel parts at times rang so much like Kosinski's The Painted Bird ), McCarthy would insert the perfect McCarthyism, solidly planting the flag (so to speak) of a phrase or sentence into the passage to claim it forever for himself, like a prosaic explorer figuratively pushing out into the unknown through deft assemblages of words and phases impossible to all but him (ok, that metaphor was way too much\u2026.time to wrap it up). Of course I have more to say but am beginning to risk (actually have already thoroughly risked) repeating myself and sounding like some deranged, McCarthy stalker-type. Check this one out. It is superior literature. ...more He palmed the spartan book with black cover and set out in the gray morning. Grayness, ashen. Ashen in face. Ashen in the sky. He set out for the road, the book in hand. Bleakness, grayness. Nothing but gray, always. He was tired and hungry. Coughing. The coughing had gotten worse. He felt like he might die. But he couldn't die. Not yet. The boy depended on him. He walked down the road, awaiting the creaking bus. It trundled from somewhere, through the gray fog. The ashen gray fog. He stepped aboard, He palmed the spartan book with black cover and set out in the gray morning. Grayness, ashen. Ashen in face. Ashen in the sky. He set out for the road, the book in hand. Bleakness, grayness. Nothing but gray, always. He was tired and hungry. Coughing. The coughing had gotten worse. He felt like he might die. But he couldn't die. Not yet. The boy depended on him. He walked down the road, awaiting the creaking bus. It trundled from somewhere, through the gray fog. The ashen gray fog. He stepped aboard, spartan book in hand. No one spoke. They were all ghosts. Tired, wrinkled, rumpled, going wherever. Not knowing why. Just going. He opened the book and read. He began to see a pattern, a monotonous pattern of hopelessness. Chunks of gray hopelessness. Prose set in concrete, gray. Gray blocks of prose. He read. He recognized images from films long since past, and books from authors of yore. Many science fiction writers, many movie makers. He thought he saw a flash, something familiar. Perhaps it was only one of his nagging dreams. A dream of what once existed, but he did not know. Wasn't there once, he wondered, a story called \"A Boy And His Dog,\" by, who? Ellison, maybe? Was that the name? It seemed right, but his mind was unreliable. It had not been reliable in awhile. People forget. Yes, they forget. And here, a fragment, \"The Last Man on Earth,\" \"The Omega Man,\" \"Dawn of the Dead,\" \"Planet of the Apes,\" \"The Day After,\" \"The Twilight Zone.\" Yes, that one, the one about the man and the books. The broken glasses. Cannibals, people in rags, charred bodies, emptiness, grayness. \"On the Beach\" popped into his mind. His gray, dulled mind. \"The Andromeda Strain.\" Dessicated bodies. Dusty, leathered, ashen bodies. The rain, the snow, the white, the cold, the gray. The endless white. The endless gray. \"Escape from New York...\" The titles seemed endless, but they blended in his wearied mind. Had he not read and seen all this a thousand times before? What was he to make of this book he held, this spartan black book, this cobbling of all that had come before, all set forth again? Was this original, he wondered? He continued to read. But he was tired, flagging. Rain, tin food, wet blankets, shivering, twigs and fire and cold. Always cold, and gray. And walking, slowly. Always walking down the road. And hiding. Hiding and walking. Ceaselessly. And atrocities. Savagery. Road warriors, the bad guys. Did this also not seem familiar? The man wondered, but his mind, like those of most of the masses, often forgot. He thanked an unseen God for this forgetfulness, for it made it easier for him to read, uncritically, unknowingly. The author, McCarthy, no doubt also must have been relieved that no one cared anymore. Plagiarism belonged to the dead past. A quaint notion of a bygone day. Not a concern, in these gray times. The times of sampling. Of plunder. My concoction is out of a tin can, he might have thought. But he did not. Tin food, prepackaged. Cans waiting to be plucked and plundered. He opened the literary beenie weenies, and served them to the world. And the world ate, hungrily ate. And believed, that beenie weenies, on their empty stomachs, tasted like the greatest gourmet dish they had ever tasted. For they knew not any better. Their gray matter just did not know. And they went on down the road. ------ (KR@KY 2009, amended only very slightly in 2016) NOTE: This review was written about, and during, bus rides to work while reading this book. To date, it is my most popular review on Goodreads, and for that I thank everyone. It appeared on the Publisher's Weekly website in an article on best parody reviews on Goodreads. Thanks to everyone who agreed with me and to also those who disagreed and vigorously defended the book. ...more I'm a terrible person because I didn't really like \"The Road\" and I'm not sure how I feel about <---A>Cormac McCarthy</---A>. Honestly, I think there's something wrong with me. I just finished reading \"The Road\" today - it only took a couple of hours to get through, because it's not that long a book, and I think it was a good way to read it because I felt really immersed in the story, which is told like one long run-on nightmare of poetic import. The characters don't get quotation marks when they speak, and I'm a terrible person because I didn't really like \"The Road\" and I'm not sure how I feel about Cormac McCarthy. Honestly, I think there's something wrong with me. I just finished reading \"The Road\" today - it only took a couple of hours to get through, because it's not that long a book, and I think it was a good way to read it because I felt really immersed in the story, which is told like one long run-on nightmare of poetic import. The characters don't get quotation marks when they speak, and for some reason McCarthy also does away with the apostrophes in words like \"couldn't\" and \"shouldn't\" - I'm still not really sure why that was necessary, it seemed a little unjustified. The story is set in a post-apocalyptic world but the apocalypse itself is never really described or explained. I still don't really know why the world is the way it is as the story begins, other than that everything suddenly started burning and there are few survivors. What survivors remain are generally split into \"good guys\" and \"bad guys\" - the good guys are just trying to get by and the bad guys usually kill and eat people and steal their things. A man and his boy are walking south, yet we never really know why - to get to what? Even the man, whose plan this is, never explains the rationale more than once when he thinks that it will be warmer there. We're meant to think that they're in America, I think, only there's little indicators of an American world or otherwise. At one point, near the end of the book, most of the artifacts they find are written in Spanish, which led me to think they had made it to Mexico possibly, but it still snows there, I think, which would be unusual. In other words, there are few concrete details, and a lot of small conversations between the man and the boy - the man usually says \"we have to keep going\" or \"we have to stay\" and the boy says \"i'm scared\" or \"don't leave me\" and the man says \"Don't be scared\" or \"Okay\". That was probably my biggest frustration with the book - the mundane repetitiveness of the dialogue. While many will argue that that criticism is *exactly what the author intended* (along with the amorphous location and lack of details) in order to bring about the black ethos of the novel's post-apocalypse, I just felt like it made for an uninteresting read. The language is definitely poetic and it's peppered with abstract observations about the world or life or death, but I wasn't very moved by them or the story. I didn't feel like I got to know the characters any better as the story went along - they remained distant to me emotionally, endless travelers that I could empathize with (as you would empathize with any soul wandering a post-apocalyptic desert) but I didn't really feel close to anything that happened because the narrative's disjointed and abstract tone just pushed me away as much as it made me reflect on apocalypse. I read Jos\u00e9 Saramago's novel, \"Blindness\" a year or two ago and, to be honest, felt that it dealt with mass epidemic of an apocalyptic nature in a much more convincing, original and powerful way. It contains language of stunning beauty, dialogue that lacks distinction and punctuation, and dire situations but the characters are infinitely more real, more compelling and the situations far more disturbing. What McCarthy only hints at, Saramago dares to depict throughout \"Blindness\". So, like I said, I'm sure I'm a terrible person and there's just something that I'm not getting, but I was really disappointed by \"The Road\" and generally find McCarthy and unenjoyable read. ...more The view that there are two independent, primal forces in the universe, one good and one evil, is called dualism. According to dualism, the good God does the best he can to promote good and combat evil but he can only do so much since evil is a powerful counterforce in its own right. The ancient Gnostics were dualists with their scriptures emphasizing the mythic rather than the historic and positing our evil world of matter created not by an all-powerful God but by a flawed deity called the Demi The view that there are two independent, primal forces in the universe, one good and one evil, is called dualism. According to dualism, the good God does the best he can to promote good and combat evil but he can only do so much since evil is a powerful counterforce in its own right. The ancient Gnostics were dualists with their scriptures emphasizing the mythic rather than the historic and positing our evil world of matter created not by an all-powerful God but by a flawed deity called the Demiurge. In contrast to the Demiurge, the good God of light resides above our earthly material universe in a pure, spiritual realm called the Pleroma. I mention dualism and Gnosticism here since I read in Cormac McCarthy's novel No Country For Old Men the following dialogue between a good old Texas boy by the name of Sheriff Bell and his old Uncle Ellis: Sheriff Bell asks: \u201cDo you think God knows what's happenin?\u201d Uncle Ellis replies \u2013 \u201cI expect he does.\u201d Bell then asks \u2013 \u201cYou think he can stop it?\u201d To this Uncle Ellis answers \u2013 \u201cNo. I dont.\u201d By these answers, whether he knows it or not, Uncle Ellis is expressing Gnostic dualism. Of course, McCarthy's worldview isn't necessarily the worldview of one of his characters, in this case Uncle Ellis, but my sense after reading No Country for Old Men McCarthy's worldview isn't that far removed from Gnostic dualism; rather, the world and society McCarthy creates is absolutely soaking in evil. The evil is so strong in this McCarthy novel, one could say evil is the primal force of the universe. A world where evil is the primal force is given an even more complete and deeper expression in McCarthy's post-Apocalyptic novel The Road, where a man and his son travel south to avoid the oncoming winter cold. Why am I saying this? Let me offer a couple observations around two quotes: We read a reflection of the man when he was a boy about age thirteen prior to the apocalypse, \"Standing at the edge of a winter field among rough men, watching while they opened up the rocky hillside ground with pick and mattock and brought to light a great bolus of serpents perhaps a hundred in number; the dull tubes of them beginning to move sluggishly in the cold hard light. Like the bowels of some great beast exposed to the day. The men poured gasoline on them and burned them alive, having no remedy for evil but only for the image of it as they conceived it to be. The burning snakes twisted horribly and some crawled burning across the floor of the grotto to illuminate its darker recesses. As they were mute there were no screams of pain and the men watched them burn and write and blacken in just such silence themselves and they disbanded in silence in the winter dusk each with his own thoughts to go home to their suppers.\" One can only wonder what brought about the actual apocalypse in the novel. Perhaps, similar to these men, world leaders attempted to remedy the image of evil on a macro level. Here is a typical scene the man and boy come upon: \"Beyond a crossroads in that wilderness they began to come upon the possessions of travelers abandoned in the road years ago. Boxes and bags. Everything melted and black. Old plastic suitcases curled shapeless in the heat. Here and there the imprint of things wrested out of the tar by scavengers. A mile on and they began to come upon the dead. Figures half mired in the blacktop, clutching themselves, mouths howling.\" No more quotes are needed as I am sure you get the idea - a shadowy, menacing, ash-filled landscape populated by humans hunting and killing and eating one another. What creates the drama in this dark, sinister, stinking world is the love the man has for the boy, his son, and the love the boy has for the man, his papa. Also, the compassion the boy has for those they encounter on the road. All through their experience on the road, can we say the man holds a Gnostic-like dualist view? He experiences the intensity of the world's evil to be sure. However, his belief in a Gnostic light realm is paradoxical. Sometimes he reflects there is only this evil world of matter, harrowing and unrelenting; and yet sometimes he recognizes the boy as a messenger come from that otherworldly realm of light. Rather than attempting an answer, I suggest reading with these ideas of dualism and Gnosticism in mind as one way of contemplating and appreciating the philosophical dimensions of McCarthy\u2019s bleak novel. Cormac McCarthy - American novelist and independent spirit par excellence ...more So I generally don't hate books - Recently when joining a face2face club they asked which book I disliked the most - and had no answer. Well I want to thank Cormac McCarthy for giving me something to be able to put there. Having heard the buzz about this book and having seen the plethora of positive reviews, I felt compelled to write my own if only to be that voice of reason in a wilderness of pretentious insanity. Cormac\u2019s McCarthy\u2019s The Road, I can honestly say, is the worst book I have ever re So I generally don't hate books - Recently when joining a face2face club they asked which book I disliked the most - and had no answer. Well I want to thank Cormac McCarthy for giving me something to be able to put there. Having heard the buzz about this book and having seen the plethora of positive reviews, I felt compelled to write my own if only to be that voice of reason in a wilderness of pretentious insanity. Cormac\u2019s McCarthy\u2019s The Road, I can honestly say, is the worst book I have ever read. I am stunned to find such a critical following for a novel that is so clearly bad that I have yet to meet a flesh and blood person who does not hate it, or cannot, even after the most mild inquires, explain its appeal beyond the latent thought that they \u201cought\u201d to like it. To do otherwise would mark them as uncultured and ignorant. Modern art had Duchamp's toilet, and now literature has its own case of the emperor\u2019s new clothes in, The Road. What sets this novel apart from all others in its genre of ill-conception, is the totality of its failure. There is nothing good that can be said of it. Some virtue can be found in every book, as in the old adage\u2014\u201c\u2026but she has a nice personality.\u201d The Road breaks this rule, and soundly. From the plot and characters to the writing style and even the cover design, the book is abysmally uninspired and a black hole of skill. Much has been made of the writing quality. Alan Cheuse, of the Chicago Tribune, and book commentator for NPR calls it \u201c\u2026his huge gift for language.\u201d Let\u2019s look at that for a moment. It is universally accepted that the first few sentences of any novel are the most crucial\u2014the words which a writer labors over the most to get them just right. Here are the first two sentences of The Road: \u201cWhen he woke in the woods in the dark and the cold of the night he\u2019d reach out to touch the child sleeping beside him. Nights dark beyond darkness and the days more gray each one than what had gone before.\u201d I once presented these two sentences to an amateur writer\u2019s forum and asked their opinion. Several members politely replied that the sentences were badly in need of work. Not only were they not grammatically correct, but they were awkward, confusing, used several unnecessary words and had all the rhythm and pacing of a dog with four broken legs. Nights dark beyond darkness, has got to rank up there with, it was a dark and stormy night. This is not at all an isolated example. It is merely the beginning\u2014literally. Other laudable narrative sentences include: \u201cThe Hour.\u201d \u201cOf a sudden he seemed to wilt even further.\u201d \u201cA lake down there.\u201d Lest you think I am selectively picking the worst, here is the passage Mr. Cheuse used in his own review as an example of genius: \u201ctottering in that cold autistic dark with his arms outheld for balance while the vestibular calculations in his skull cranked out their reckonings. An old chronicle. To seek out the upright. No fall but preceded by a declination. He took great marching steps into the nothingness, counting them against his return.\u201d What McCormac is describing here is that it is dark and the man can\u2019t see where he is going. The author is clearly a master of communication. Let\u2019s also pause to consider his brilliance of dialog, and his mastery of the monosyllable conversation that make the screenplay dialog of Sylvester Stallone and Arnold Schwarzenegger on par with Shakespeare. Nearly every conversation has the word \u201cOkay,\u201d which appears so often I began to think it was a pun, like a ventriloquist routine. One might conclude McCarthy is attempting to reflect a realistic vernacular into his work, except that the conversations are so stilted and robotic, as to lack even the faintest aroma of realism. There is no slang, no halted speech, no rambling. It is Dragnet. First dialog in the book: I ask you something? Yes. Of course. Are we going to die? Sometime. Not now. And we\u2019re still going south. Yes. So we\u2019ll be warm. Yes. Okay. Okay what? Nothing. Just okay. Go to sleep. Okay. You\u2019ll note that I did not use quotes in the above excerpt. That is because neither does McCarthy. There are no quotes anywhere in the book, nor are there any tags designating the speaker, which manages to successfully make determining who is speaking quite a dilemma at times. Moreover, McCarthy never provides names to his characters this forces him to use the pronoun \u201che\u201d frequently which very often leaves the reader bewildered as to whether he is referring to the father or the boy. McCarthy doesn\u2019t stop with quotes. He rarely uses commas or apostrophes. It doesn\u2019t appear as if he is against contractions as he uses the non-word, \u201cdont\u201d quite frequently. Nor is he making the statement that he can write a whole book without punctuation as he does, on rare occasions, use a comma or an apostrophe, (as you can see from the dialog segment I listed above,) as if he is going senile and merely forgot. As the lack of most of the necessary punctuation\u2019s only result is to make it harder to read, I can only conclude that McCarthy, or his editor are the most lazy people I\u2019ve ever heard of\u2014although I am certain no credible editor ever saw this book. If they had I am certain we would have heard about the suicide in the papers. One might overlook the shortcomings of writing skill if the novel\u2019s foundation was an excellent story. Sadly, this is not the case. Not that it lacks an excellent plot\u2014it lacks a plot. Often times writers anguish over distilling the plot of a novel into a few sentences that might fit on the back of a book cover. It is often impossible to clearly convey all that a book is in such a short span. The Road does not suffer this. Instead I would imagine that if it were possible to put this book in a microwave and evaporate all the extraneous words all you would have left is one sentence: A boy and his father travel south in a post-apocalyptic United States, then the father dies. I wonder if the blurb writer for the, The Road, realized he was also providing a spoiler for the novel so comprehensive, no one need read the book. What the book lacks in plot it clearly makes up for in even less characterization. The father and the boy\u2014that is about as much characterization as you will get. McCarthy doesn\u2019t even provide names from which readers might glean some associative characteristics. We know the boy is afraid, because he says so approximately every four pages, always with the same robotic level of emotional intensity, backing it up with his many reasons, regrets and concerns as in the passage: I am scared. Likewise, the father is equally a pot bubbling over with emotional angst and frustration so vividly expressed in his response: I know. I\u2019m sorry. We might as well burn all our copies of Grapes of Wrath now that we have this tour de force. As amazing as it is, with only an eggshell of plot, McCarthy manages to run afoul of logic. The boy and his father come across shelters packed with food and water, and yet the father insists they move on. Why? Because they must keep moving so as to avoid encountering others. Clearly staying in one place is the best plan to avoid meeting others, hermit do it all the time. Yes, other people might wander into you, but you double that equation if you too are roaming. The only argument for pressing on with the journey is to find others. I am certain I am being too kind here, but given that this is a Pulitzer Prize winning, Oprah Pick, National Bestseller, I don\u2019t want to ruffle too many feathers. Of course, Duchamp's toilet (Fountain) was once voted \"the most influential modern artwork of all time\". ...more I finished this novel quite a few days ago. Normally, I would hop right up and start composing my little goodreads ramble, publish whatever nonsense came out, and go about my day. This novel, however, left me feeling like an incubus was on my chest, paralyzing my brain and limiting my mobility. I set it down and stared at the ceiling. I rolled around in bed feeling anxious and nostalgic and terrible and serene. I hid it in my backpack so I wouldn\u2019t continue to be tortured by seeing the spine, an I finished this novel quite a few days ago. Normally, I would hop right up and start composing my little goodreads ramble, publish whatever nonsense came out, and go about my day. This novel, however, left me feeling like an incubus was on my chest, paralyzing my brain and limiting my mobility. I set it down and stared at the ceiling. I rolled around in bed feeling anxious and nostalgic and terrible and serene. I hid it in my backpack so I wouldn\u2019t continue to be tortured by seeing the spine, and contemplating how it was defeating me. This loud-mouth, this rambler, this conversational ram-rodder had, in a rare instance of humbling, found herself with nothing to say. So many thoughts, and no words to frame them in. I finally placed the book back on the shelf, acknowledged that I had read it through the meager gesture of rating, and started with something else. After a few days had passed, I decided to try and pin down the numerous specimens that are my thoughts. I won\u2019t wow you like the story does. I won\u2019t offer any insight that isn\u2019t present elsewhere on goodreads in the many, many fantastic reviews that have already conquered this territory to the extent that it is conquerable. I will get a bit self-indulgent and tell you embarrassing, private things that you may or may not care to read about concerning my life and my family, because this novel is largely about the preciousness of life and the preciousness of family, of the horror and the beauty and everything in between. It is a somber meditation on subtle, enormous things. I am predisposed toward loving post-apocalyptic novels. In many ways, I blame this on my obsession with the \u201cBoxcar Children\u201d books whenever I was a kid. Though these books are, of course, NOT post-apocalyptic tales, they do depict a world that is about as barren and frightening as a 9 year old lower-middle-class girl can wrap her mind around. The idea that you have no home, no parental figures, no reliable source of food or comfort, and basically nothing save your siblings, is a scary and fascinating thing to think about. With a home life as precarious as my own, it didn\u2019t seem terribly far-fetched to some day find myself destitute, and I found deep comfort in the children\u2019s will to survive. Unfortunately, I eventually did find myself in a comparable situation when, in the midst of my parents\u2019 divorce, my 5 year old sister and I went to live with our father in this giant, shadowy house on a stretch of land in one of Oklahoma\u2019s smaller towns, a place far from the protection of my mother, and far from all of the friends I had grown up around and came to trust and love. In a consuming fit of depression, my father basically isolated himself from the realm of the living, sleeping most hours, and silently and heavily self-medicating in a darkened den when \u201cawake.\u201d I was 11, and was forced to take on the domestic duties of a full-grown woman in order to care for my sister, ensure we both ate, walk her to school and back every day, maintain a moderately clean home, tiny, shoddy Christmas trees out of tree branches, etc etc etc. Though I realize this sounds like a sob story, let me assure you it was short-lived, and that when I finally abandoned my blind loyalty to my father and made with the truth, we were snatched up that very day, and the world was bright and rosy again from then on. Also, I am actually pretty glad that it happened. My brief experience in this alternate reality had some enormous character-building effects, and was actually sort of fun sometimes in this \u201cI\u2019m really living out this whole self-reliance thing that I\u2019ve read so much about\u201d sort of way. I mean, it got old quick. However, the most important effects that it had on me as a person (aside from making me feel capable of handling a whole lot of bullshit, weathering the storms of life, yadda yadda) were a) binding my sister and I in an unbreakable way and b) making me see seemingly obvious bits of the process of living (food, tiny little gifts, things like Christmas lights and Easter eggs and really warm gloves) as the precious objects that we so often forget that they are. But we are discussing The Road , here. The emphasis on precious little things composes much of the story. There is a lot of what some may call \u201cfiller\u201d throughout the novel; descriptions of meals, the process of preparing the meals, of the characters disrobing layer by layer in order to clean themselves in the extremely rare warm bath they manage to take, washing every bit of themselves and every layer of clothing, stitching up a wound, wrapping up the wound, pulling a pant-leg over the wound. Though the form of each sentence, of the entire novel even, could arguably be considered curt, it is a conscious choice. Each sentence is presented like a precious object, a simple little thing which is, in its very simplicity, some exquisite testimonial to the process of living and loving. Even the dialogue is stripped bare, exhibiting the boundless love of the Man and the Boy in the simplest of exchanges more effectively than some sprawling monologue or melodramatic, Shakespearean dialogue would have been able to. They don\u2019t even have to say \u201cI Love You.\u201d It simply is. It\u2019s so rare to find a voice such as McCarthy\u2019s that can say so much with so very little. I have spent a lot of time reading about Japanese culture, and one of the many immensely interesting things that I have come across is the lack of a direct translation of the phrase \u201cI Love You.\u201d There are, of course, ways to express affection, and adoration, and even obsession. Yet, the notion that we attach so much meaning to, the three words you may hear from a lover and feel anything from overwhelming, butterflies-in-the-brain-like joy to crap in your pants and the early symptoms of a heart attack, the three words that can make or break a human connection, these three words are not translatable in a literal sense. This fascinated me enough to approach one of my college professors from Japan and ask her to tell me why. Her response was to say that something so enormous just couldn\u2019t be put so simply, should not be flattened down and thrown around in the way that this limited phrase allows, and that it is almost obscene to assume everything involved in deep love can be encompassed in such a stunted bit of words. Though Japanese culture has sort of \u201cwhipped up\u201d some ways to express a similar sentiment, it is more often than not used to placate Western lovers, is still quite limiting as to how they really feel, and even then is rarely used. Expression of the emotions coded in \u201cI Love You\u201d is preferably accomplished through a culmination of millions of different actions, tiny little kindnesses that aren\u2019t named as kindnesses, minuscule, stacking pieces of the \u201cI Love You\u2019 puzzle. Well, this novel feels distinctly Japanese in this, along with many other, ways. Bare-bones, humble respect for every cell of every mass of the life process. The simplest of gestures binding together to communicate giant feelings. Reverence for the smallest bits of life, as they are crucial elements of the whole. At the risk of contradicting everything I just said, I would argue that the sentence which most communicates the moral underpinning this wonderful story is this: \"When one has nothing left make ceremonies out of the air and breathe upon them.\" Allow me to be a bit clearer: I strongly suggest that you read this book. ...more How to Write Like Cormac McCarthy 1. Make sure the first sentence contains a verb. 2. But neither the second. 3. Nor the third. 4. Repeat until finished. 5. Or sooner deterred. We'll Become Well Eventually The Boy: Papa? Papa: Yes? The Boy: What's this? Papa: It's an apostrophe. The Boy: What does it do? Papa: It takes two words and turns them into a contraction. The Boy: Is that good? Papa: Years ago people used to think it was good. The Boy: What about now? Papa: Not many people use them now. The Boy: Does th How to Write Like Cormac McCarthy 1. Make sure the first sentence contains a verb. 2. But neither the second. 3. Nor the third. 4. Repeat until finished. 5. Or sooner deterred. We'll Become Well Eventually The Boy: Papa? Papa: Yes? The Boy: What's this? Papa: It's an apostrophe. The Boy: What does it do? Papa: It takes two words and turns them into a contraction. The Boy: Is that good? Papa: Years ago people used to think it was good. The Boy: What about now? Papa: Not many people use them now. The Boy: Does the world already have enough contractions, Papa? Papa: I hadn't thought of it like that. But you might be on to something. The Boy: What difference would it make if we threw away all the apostrophes? Papa: Not much. I don't think. The Boy: I wonder if we could get rid of the apostrophe, then maybe... Papa: Yes? The Boy: You could say we'll be well. Papa: You're right. You know. But it could get confusing. If you wrote it down. Without an apostrophe. \"Well be well.\" The Boy: But really, Papa, if we could take away just one apostrophe, do you think we'll become well? Eventually. All of us? Papa: We could. The Boy: Well, then, if we can get rid of all of the apostrophes, we will. Papa: But then there wouldn't be any contractions! The Boy: Papa! Papa: Haha. I wish your grammar could hear you talking! In Praise of the Verb to Grow Out of ashen gray Frequently grow sentences Of colored beauty. All Things of Grace and Beauty [An Assemblage of Favourite Sentences] Like the onset of some cold glaucoma dimming away the world. No fall but preceded by a declination. He caught it in his hand and watched it expire there like the last host of christendom. No one travelled this land. Ever's a long time. Creedless shells of men tottering down the causeways like migrants in a feverland. The sparks rushed upward and died in the starless dark. On this road there are no godspoke men. How does the never to be differ from what never was? By day the banished sun circles the earth like a grieving mother with a lamp. The ash fell on the snow until it was all but black. Paths of feral fire in the coagulate sands. The day providential to itself. All things of grace and beauty such that one holds them to one's heart have a common provenance of pain. We're survivors he told her across the flame of the lamp. A black billcap with the logo of some vanished enterprise embroidered across the front of it. In the darkness and the silence he could see bits of light that appeared random on the night grid. The sacred idiom shorn of its referents and so of its reality. The dark serpentine of a dead vine running down it like the track of some enterprise on a graph. A single bit of sediment coiling in the jar on some slow hydraulic axis ...a pale palimpsest of advertisements for goods which no longer existed. The cold relentless circling of the intestate earth. There is no God and we are his prophets. They are watching for a thing that even death cannot undo... Like the desolation of some alien sea breaking on the shores of a world unheard of. One vast salt sepulchre. There were few nights lying in the dark when he did not envy the dead. I will not send you into the darkness alone. The mudstained shapes of flooded cities burned to the waterline. A living man spoke these lines. Ten thousand dreams ensepulchred within their crozzled hearts. The ponderous counterspectacle of things ceasing to be. The sweeping waste, hydroptic and coldly secular. There is no prophet in the earth's long chronicle who's not honored here today. Nick Cave & Warren Ellis - \"The Beach\" (The Road Soundtrack) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9bN-u... Alternative Dystopian Ending Haiku (view spoiler) [ In the silver light Of the moon above the beach, A big squid ate them. (hide spoiler) ] ...more The main point I want to deal with is how I managed to walk away from this book with a trenchant sense of gratitude at the forefront of my mind. I certainly won\u2019t mislead and paint this story as one that directly radiates things to be happy about, but I do think it does so indirectly (and the term \"happy\" is far too facile for my purposes here). This is an extremely dark tale of a world passed through a proverbial dissolvent. A world stripped of its major ecological systems. Small pockets of hom The main point I want to deal with is how I managed to walk away from this book with a trenchant sense of gratitude at the forefront of my mind. I certainly won\u2019t mislead and paint this story as one that directly radiates things to be happy about, but I do think it does so indirectly (and the term \"happy\" is far too facile for my purposes here). This is an extremely dark tale of a world passed through a proverbial dissolvent. A world stripped of its major ecological systems. Small pockets of homo sapiens remain and virtually all other animal and vegetative life has vanished. For the Father and the Boy\u2014the core characters of the novel who are holding onto to their existence by the most tenuous of threads\u2014for them nearly every moment consists of terror and misery. Food is extremely scarce. Fellow humans are often very likely to kill and eat them. There\u2019s an utter lack of good prospects on the horizon. And when terror seems less immediate and they have a moment to become lost in the luxuries of long-term memory, the thoughts tend to be ones of painful regret and helplessness and are just as bleak as the immediate surroundings and circumstances. A REALLY, REALLY SAD AND SCARY TALE. Okay. It\u2019s fitting\u2014albeit in a superficial, mundane coincidence type of fashion\u2014that I\u2019m reading The Road for the first time as soon as the temperatures in my cartographic slice of things have just plummeted to single-digit degrees. The slow death of autumn has given way to the inescapable, temporary halt of much organic hustle and bustle. The skies often tend to merge with the washed out grays and whites of the landscape. As almost goes without saying, the world of McCarthy\u2019s unexplained apocalypse is one in which each day is more gray than the last. So there seems to be some veneer of kinship between this world and my current surroundings, but what\u2019s more important\u2014far, far more important\u2014are the manifold differences. Compared to the bleak world of the book that sits to my left, the nonfictional winter of the Chicago tri-state area is a veritable paradise. Colors are still abundant, if you choose to notice them. The buildings, cars and clothes we encase ourselves in\u2014in sum\u2014still display a wide range of colors, patterns, novelties, and so on, which to an eye accustomed to and expectant of tattered gray wastelands would appear as an orgiastic celebration of beauty and eyesight like none other. Though sunlight is less abundant now than in other seasons we are still, often enough, visited by a warmth and illumination that comes from that distant, worship-worthy star above, as opposed to a random explosion from some chunk of flammable infrastructure releasing its dying breath, or from a meager fire knelt over and struggled to bring to life. In full disclosure, I can\u2019t say that anyone has ever accused me of being an optimist. I\u2019ve held the deed to boatloads\u2014jam-packed harbors of them\u2014of cynicism, despair, and all the other synonyms for negative emotional states and psychological dispositions. But I also feel that the struggle against nihilism, apathetic numbness, and ascetic ideology of all stripes is The Great Foundational Struggle for myself, and for my fellow strange hairless primates to take up and take up with vigor. To be able to look uncertainty, intuitive pessimism, our own impending demise, and even the gaping void of eternity squarely in its facelessness and still wrest away something profoundly good and meaningful. I\u2019ve also been no stranger to the wishful-yearning to abandon my human cognitive faculties, our apparently unique ability to look forward, to anticipate, to construct possibilities, outcomes, goals, to direct wonder and desire at and upon the world around and within us, and to reflect upon these very things and the reflection itself, the reflection itself, the reflection itself... These useful evolutionary adaptations (and their attendant byproducts) often feel like a burden to those who also have the aforementioned boatloads somehow connected to their person. The burden is simply in the fact that where one can see ahead they can see ahead to miserable outcomes. I used to mentally nod in agreement when Craig Schwartz, in Being John Malkovich , remarks to his wife\u2019s pet chimpanzee that \"Consciousness is a curse.\" I used to quasi-proudly cite the Samuel Johnson quote at the beginning of Fear & Loathing In Las Vegas that \"He who makes a beast out of himself gets rid of the pain of being a man.\" And one dramatic evening the man singing the song [ which has been removed from the top of the review now ] literally slapped me and metaphorically awoke me from this nihilistic slumber by pointing to the words \"pain of being man\" which were scrawled, in my hand, upon a miniature American flag and screamed something to the effect of \" This is something you can't ever fully get rid of!\" What is basically an obvious truth hit me like a ton of bricks, the way that certain obvious yet somehow elusive truths are want to do. It was a moment that, say, Nietzsche would\u2019ve been proud of, as he was brilliant at and adamant in his fight against nihilism and opposed to treating pain as something merely to be avoided rather than faced and even, in some ways, embraced. In sum, wishing away our nature, our circumstance, our humanity\u2014this is no better and no less cowardly than blissfully strolling along as if everything\u2019s coming up roses when the world crumbles around you. It\u2019s a rejection of the present world--a sigh of resignation, signed, sealed, delivered. We have to learn to do something with our terror and woe. Pronouncing it terminal and sitting back to watch the world turn to cinders and dust is no longer an option, and precisely because of how dire many of our situations truly are. There\u2019s a tremendously powerful scene in which the Father and the Boy discover an underground bunker filled with food and various supplies. The joy and relief they feel in that bunker is the metaphorical core of where gratitude lies in terrible situations. My bunker, our bunker, is generally much more vast in the present nonfictional world of circumstances--both the circumstances that we share and the ones that are enclosed within. And yet somehow this gratitude is not really any easier to find and possess in a lasting way than the literal bunker that briefly acts as a protective womb for the central characters of this dark and harrowing tale. This is all to say that there is something very important about finding real silver linings and that in rejecting so many false ones we may accidentally toss out the genuine ones. Genuine goodness gets caught so easily in our blind spots. \"What a wonderful thing to be alive and given to hungering.\" \u2014Death Rattle Orchestra, \"The Hand's Mouth\" Books like this that contain such magnificently terrible visions of a doomed planet, also contain the impetus to appreciate things once taken for granted and to cherish and protect these things with every fibre of one\u2019s being. They also contain a pulse of something that is purely beautiful such as the relationship between the Father and the Boy. Clearly, they represent some sort of triumph of perseverance, but not at all in the glib, mindless language of motivational posters, but in a hard-nosed, realistic manner that taps into deep and serious feelings and verifiable realities, rather than delusional slogans recited to keep general unpleasantness at bay. The story doesn\u2019t end happily ever after, not by a long shot, but there are real triumphs all along the way and these don\u2019t vanish simply because we aren\u2019t served up every fulfilled desire on a silver platter. Such is life. The world is not drained of meaning simply because it is finite and partially composed of fallibility, uncertainty, and things generally that fall short of our yearned-for ideals. The triumphs are real . He held the boy by the hand and they went along the rows of stenciled cartons. Chile, corn, stew, soup, spaghetti sauce. This richness of the vanished world. Why is this here? the boy said. Is it real? Oh yes. It's real. Anything that can shake a person to their core and set off a chain of thoughts that leads to the desire to live better than before, perhaps ethically, or to allow them to feel things more profoundly\u2014such as gratitude and amazement at the very fact of anything existing at all\u2014deserves all the praise it can get. As far as I\u2019m concerned Cormac McCarthy\u2019s writing is now praise-worthy in this way. ...more I have nightmares similar to what Cormac McCarthy depicted in his book. I\u2019m with my family. Sometimes, it\u2019s just my son and I. The dystopia might not be the nuclear winter portrayed here, but it has the same type of vibe. Rampant fear and chaos, breakdown of society, everyone pitted against everyone else and my only thought is to somehow hold my family together and protect them. Or we\u2019re traveling or holed up somewhere and everything is quiet and we\u2019re suddenly overrun. Fear is the core. Fear is t I have nightmares similar to what Cormac McCarthy depicted in his book. I\u2019m with my family. Sometimes, it\u2019s just my son and I. The dystopia might not be the nuclear winter portrayed here, but it has the same type of vibe. Rampant fear and chaos, breakdown of society, everyone pitted against everyone else and my only thought is to somehow hold my family together and protect them. Or we\u2019re traveling or holed up somewhere and everything is quiet and we\u2019re suddenly overrun. Fear is the core. Fear is the motivator. Fear is the wind; the element that upsets the precarious balance on the tightrope of our existence. We straddle the thin rope that encompasses our hope and will. It\u2019s a long way down into the abyss, but the dark looks comforting \u2013 inviting. In light of this, the specific situations depicted in the book raise some questions for me: I love my family but could I be as resourceful as \u201cthe man\u201d? Under the dreadful circumstances, would I have the same patience as \u201cthe man\u201d? If faced with the dilemma of no food, would I give up? Would I consider myself one of the \u201cgood guys\u201d? Would I carry \"the fire\"? This was a buddy read with Kelly and Ashley *Hufflepuff Kitten* . ...more I just read some guy's review of The Road that contained the following: \"In the three hours that I read this book I found myself crying, laughing, shouting, and most of the time my lip was trembling. ... As soon as I finished it, I sat there feeling numb, but not in a bad way, actually sort of like I was high.\" Wow, dude. I mean, really? Your lip was trembling? And you felt high? And your lip was trembling ? Pherphuxake, what do you even say to someone like that? ------------------------------------ I just read some guy's review of The Road that contained the following: \"In the three hours that I read this book I found myself crying, laughing, shouting, and most of the time my lip was trembling. ... As soon as I finished it, I sat there feeling numb, but not in a bad way, actually sort of like I was high.\" Wow, dude. I mean, really? Your lip was trembling? And you felt high? And your lip was trembling ? Pherphuxake, what do you even say to someone like that? --------------------------------------------------------------------- The Road by Cormac McCarthy is an awful, awful book. I have to consciously restrain myself from judging those of you who believe the book has merit. Don\u2019t worry, the fact that I\u2019m part of a very small minority in this regard (only the smartest 3% of my fellow Goodreads bibliophiles also gave The Road a one-star review) has not escaped me. I am nevertheless convinced of the objective correctness of my position\u2014notwithstanding the inherent subjective nature of any literary discussion\u2014and I will maintain with my dying breath that The Road should have been named The Rod because it represents nothing more than Cormac McCarthy\u2019s attempt to proclaim to the world that he has a big literary dick. I have constructed a list of factors that increase a book\u2019s suck quotient and I fear The Road exhibits most of them. Let\u2019s check my list and see which things appear in The Road : \u2022 A plot that lacks clear beginning or ending (check) \u2022 Important characters who don't grow or learn from their experiences (check) \u2022 Important characters whose actions lack clear motivation (check) \u2022 Scenes and dialogue that are repetitive or unoriginal (check) \u2022 Violence and gore included for shock value (check) \u2022 Locations and settings that are ambiguous (check) \u2022 History and backstory that are ambiguous (check) \u2022 Grammar and punctuation used in a pretentious or self-indulgent manner (check) \u2022 Pronouns and punctuation used in an ambiguous manner (check) \u2022 Metaphors and analogies that appear contrived, forced and disjointed (check) Okay, to be fair The Road doesn\u2019t exhibit most of the suck-quotient factors; it exhibits all of them. It's as though McCarthy deliberately designed his book to be the antithesis of what I think makes for quality reading. Now before I get any further, let\u2019s get a couple of things out of the way. Much is made of McCarthy\u2019s failure to use quotation marks and other punctuation, with some finding it brilliant and some finding it pretentious and self-indulgent. I make my home in the pretensions-and-self-indulgent camp. In fact I find McCarthy\u2019s treatment of punctuation nauseating; it is his way of saying: \u201cMy words are so beautiful, perfect, and complete that they stand on their own. I require no punctuation to convey my meaning. Indeed my message is too powerful to be contained by the same convention that restricts the middling novelist, too important to suffer the vandalism of punctuation.\u201d Thus, leaving out punctuation can be not only confusing for the reader, but also revoltingly self-indulgent and arrogant. However , that being said, I don\u2019t believe The Road sucks merely because it lacks quotation marks. I\u2019m okay with such a tool if it\u2019s used for a purpose that adds to the message being conveyed, \u00e0 la Blindness . So punctuation is not the only suck-quotient factor here. Instead, I believe The Road sucks because it sucks every possible way a book can suck. The purposeless lack of quotation marks and other punctuation is merely one symptom of the enormity of the book\u2019s suckitude. It\u2019s important to understand that this is not just a matter me disliking The Road . I have an almost vehement reaction to The Road and to the rather large group of slobbering, screaming, panties-throwing admirers. In the interest of intellectual honesty, I challenged myself to figure out why this is. Why can\u2019t I just abhor The Road while letting other people have their moronic fun? Why must I look down on people who love The Road with a feeling of disgusted superiority? Why do I care if others enjoy the mental equivalent of dipping bread into horse diarrhea and pretending it\u2019s award-winning fondue? It took some soul-searching to learn the answer: I react vehemently to The Road because fans and critics of literature love to stroke McCarthy\u2019s Rod, while works of science fiction\u2014my favorite genre\u2014are dismissed regardless of their merit. Critics praise The Road but glibly waive off sci-fi as a genre for people who never grew out of their childlike amusement for light sabers or their adolescent fascination with space battles. Sci-fi is relegated to its own awards and events, left out of consideration for broader literary honors, leaving me with the impression that the literary world does not perceive sci-fi to be real, legitimate literature. But from my point of view The Road is the adolescent work. By the standards under which I would judge a quality sci-fi novel (or any quality novel), The Road is shallow and simple, along with unoriginal and obvious. The Road is to my favorite sci-fi as a toddler\u2019s splashing pool is to Lake Tahoe. It is beyond me how The Road can be the guest of honor while much deeper books with beautiful language and original, thought-provoking ideas are not even invited to the party because they happen to be sci-fi. Of course the other 97% disagree with my assessment of The Road as shallow and unoriginal. They believe that I just didn't get it, that I couldn\u2019t see past McCarthy\u2019s prose and unconventional punctuation. They tell me The Road is rich and deep. They tell me to forget the quotation marks and the nameless characters and look at what McCarthy is trying to tell us. The Road tells us this, and it talks about that, and speaks to this other thing. Then the 38% who gave The Road five stars lose themselves in their collective self-amplified group hysteria. \u201c The Road is so so so great!\u201d they yell in unison. \u201cPlease take my panties, Mr. McCarthy!\u201d they yell at some imaginary stage. \u201cHere, Mr. McCarthy please sign my boobs!\u201d And that\u2019s where I have to walk away. The thing is, though, I didn\u2019t have a difficult time seeing what The Road tells us and talks about and speaks to; I just didn't find any of it to be especially deep, enlightening, or insightful. The book was easy to read and simple to comprehend. It didn\u2019t make me think. Everything was right there on the surface, served with a spoon, and what we were served had no flavor, no spice, no originality. So it\u2019s not that The Road lacks all substance. If it weren\u2019t for the nonstop nauseating self-indulgence I would have given it two stars and might recommend it to people who are new to the reading scene. My problem is that, for something so beloved and critically acclaimed, for something written by a writer with such talent, The Road fails utterly, a shell without substance that collapses in upon itself in a heap of triteness and unoriginality. To put it yet another way, The Road was just so goddamn boring . I want a book that makes me pay attention and use my noggin. I want to work at peeling back layers and making connections. When I find them, I want the author's ideas and insights to be original, edifying, and thought-provoking. I want artful prose, relatable characters, realistic motivations, and poetic plot points. And guess what, I find no shortage of books on the sci-fi shelves that meet those criteria. Now let\u2019s see if we can tie things together. There are plenty of truly excellent books of contemporary literature; I have read and enjoyed several, including one or two that have touched me deeply. Likewise there are plenty of truly excellent books on the sci-fi genre. For some reason one genre is invited to the party and the other isn\u2019t. I don\u2019t know why that is, beyond an apparent assumption made by haughty critics and readers that sci-fi is for kids. Now, I\u2019m not trying to say that all sci-fi is wonderful. There\u2019s plenty of crappy sci-fi out there, just like there\u2019s plenty of crap in any genre. My point is simply that, despite the dismissive attitude of many literary critics, the sci-fi shelves contain books that are as good as anything out there: books as rich and complex, as insightful and layered, as edifying and beautiful as anything in contemporary literature. So when something like The Road is hailed as a masterpiece while some truly brilliant works of sci-fi\u2014works that could mop the floor with The Road in every facet\u2014 are acknowledged only by a roll of the eyes ... well, I think you see why I can\u2019t be happy just to dislike The Road and let everyone else have their fun. ...more I\u2019m trying to find solace in the fact that I\u2019m probably not the only one to be humiliatingly hoodwinked into taking the time to read Cormac McCarthy\u2019s much-celebrated yawn-fest \u201cThe Road\u201d, although this hardly makes this bamboozling something to boast about. In spite of the fact approximately three-fourths of the world seemed to readily embrace this as worthy fare, I managed to keep my distance for some time, mainly through ignorance of the general plot of the book and my usual stubborn reluctan I\u2019m trying to find solace in the fact that I\u2019m probably not the only one to be humiliatingly hoodwinked into taking the time to read Cormac McCarthy\u2019s much-celebrated yawn-fest \u201cThe Road\u201d, although this hardly makes this bamboozling something to boast about. In spite of the fact approximately three-fourths of the world seemed to readily embrace this as worthy fare, I managed to keep my distance for some time, mainly through ignorance of the general plot of the book and my usual stubborn reluctance to blindly jump off a bridge with the masses. I should have obeyed my gut instinct and remained one of the few spared the tedium of \u201cThe Road\u201d, but then I had to go and actually examine a copy from a carefully-arranged pile resembling some kaleidoscopic, symmetrical form that some unfortunate, underpaid bookslut had to labor over for hours to create, and noticed that not only did this win the Pulitzer Prize, but happened to be a post-apocalyptic tale, and nothing stirs my loins nearly as vigorously. I\u2019d even had it suggested by one of my fellow goodreaders, and after brief contemplation as to whether to waste my money on this alleged masterpiece or another box of nitrous cartridges, I decided that it was time to see what all the fuss was about (regarding \u201cThe Road\u201d, I think I can understand the allure of the EZ Whip cream chargers, especially when you\u2019ve got one of those bigass punch-ball balloons). I sat in a numbed stupor while I read this, completely baffled as to how the hell this managed not only to win awards of great prestige, but, more importantly, just how it managed to be a commercial success with the ordinary reader. I\u2019m almost interested to hear why someone might have actually enjoyed \u201cThe Road\u201d, in which McCarthy somehow managed to make boring the concept of post-apocalyptic America. While I usually happen to be a fan of the genre, I found this to be everything which I don\u2019t desire within that intriguing realm. At this point, I\u2019m obviously begging for someone to come along and tell me that I \u2018didn\u2019t get it\u2019, and probably point out that I\u2019m a moron for good measure. I\u2019m not denying that these are certainly valid arguments, but convincing me that I didn\u2019t like this book is going to be impossible, my cheeky little friend. So, what did I get from \u201cThe Road\u201d, which stupefies me with its status as a #1 bestseller and Pulitzer-winning tour de force? Several things, all of them sucky; a whole lot of repetitive and boring conversation and redundant let\u2019s-trek-towards-the-coast plodding, a lot of stupidass and harebrained compoundwords, and an insipid amalgam of fiftyword paragraphs that seldom accomplished anything as far as entertaining me as a reader. Here\u2019s the story in a nutshell, for anyone who might be inexplicably reading this without having read the book; probably because they were wise enough to invest in the EZ Whip instead, and are now dicking around with their iTunes trying to find the song that best complements that flanging sound in their head. Some sort of catastrophe has befallen planet Earth, and I have to admit I was pretty interested to find out the nature of this calamity, but McCarthy decides to keep that a secret for some reason beyond my grasp, maybe as the highlight of \u201cThe Road 2: Thoroughfare\u201d. Ok, I can dig it, whatever it was, I know that it had no trouble fucking up Earth\u2019s weak and fragile little blue ass. Score; Unexplained Devastating Event 1, Earth 0. Does it really matter what might have happened, seeing as all it resulted in was the end of almost all life as we know it? Actually, yeah, the lack of any sort of input regarding the origin of this chain of events does suck, and badly. Score: Utter Buffoonishness 1, Cormac McCarthy 0. In the wake of, well, whatever cataclysmic shit happened, we\u2019ve got a father and son struggling to survive in the resulting aftermath, and things aren\u2019t very promising for this enterprising duo, as whatever wiped out the inhabitants of planet earth also eradicated not only all plant and animal life, but in a shocking display of sheer spite also managed to do away with quotation marks, colons, semicolons, and most hyphens. Survivors of this worldwide holocaust are few and far between: scattered bands of humans that have largely resorted to thuggishness and cannibalism for lack of other hobbies or nutrition, a few mushrooms, and question marks, periods, and a wily subset of apostrophes have managed to escape extermination. The father and son have managed to eke out a regrettable existence for an unknown number of years, and the approaching winter promises to be outrageously cold, so they make way for an unnamed southern coastline, where I can only presume they're expecting to encounter something more accommodating. Their journey is perhaps the most ridiculously boring shit I\u2019ve ever read. They push a shopping cart along with their scant supplies while alternately stomping through ash and sleeping in ditches. Once in a while they encounter another survivor, each meeting completely preposterous and without substance. They ransack homes and forage for food, they abandon the weak and feeble, they ramble incessantly, engaging in snippets of pointless conversation, usually about how they cannot give up, as they are \u2018carrying the fire\u2019. I\u2019m assuming that \u2018the fire\u2019 is the inextinguishable hope for mankind, a barely flickering light personified in the child, or maybe the fact that any chance of repopulating may depend on their ash-coated and unwashed swinging schlongs, who the hell knows, the \u2018fire\u2019 could be their undiminished belief in god which they\u2019ll impart on the cannibal savages running unchecked when not feasting on fetus. That\u2019s it. Seriously, that\u2019s the story, and I\u2019ve long since abandoned any attempt to discover what all the hype surrounding this supposed \u2018story\u2019 is. Despite my generally low opinion of our collective taste as a species, I found myself shocked that \u201cThe Road\u201d was deemed favorable by so many. But what I really can\u2019t wrap my head around is the critical acclaim, which applauds this for reasons I\u2019ll never understand, and sincerely hope the critics don\u2019t either. I found the storytelling utterly regrettable and lacking in all possible aspects, once in a while McCarthy bizarrely waxed poetic, and he also made the completely unforgivable mistake of mentioning how the \u2018sun went around the earth\u2019, which, if intended to be literal, at least offers an explanation as to why the planet is becoming so inhospitable. Otherwise, all Cormac has to offer is a bunch of really short, uninteresting sentences, banal murmurings between father and son, and a whole lot of tedium. I might almost be impressed that on several occasions McCarthy busted out some word which I\u2019ve previously never seen before in my life (woad and siwash come to mind, both forever burnt in my brain as examples of meaningless gibberish), but when the use of these words is considered next to the rest of the prose, composed of rudimentary language, all it called to mind was the disheartening suspicion that McCarthy stumbled across these relics from some Word-Of-The-Day vocabulary-enhancing calendar, making them seem improbably forced into the story: June 14th: WOAD: n, some absurd, obscure shit. \u201cHmmmm,\u201d Cormac ponders this treasure, \u201cI may have to have the protagonists come across a load of woad.\u201d He chuckles idiotically. \u201cA load. Heh. Of woad. Heh heh.\u201d While the Woad Incident was bad enough, McCarthy also uses \u2018wonky\u2019. Christ, the last time I heard wonky used was in Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome, coming from Master Blaster. This made for a pretty fitting connection between the two, both being pieces of post-apocalyptic poodle piddle. After getting an unsavory sampling of the author\u2019s propensity for rarely-seen words, I was half expecting to see rampike, which would have actually worked in the context of the story on countless occasions, but apparently that one was included in Roget\u2019s Word-Of-The-Day and our man McCarthy was given the Merriam-Webster last Christmas. Now I\u2019m just nit-picking, for lack of anything else to comment on, since this was so devoid of action, intrigue, or anything remotely thought-provoking. ...more A man and his young son are traveling along a highway, hoping to get far enough south to avoid the onslaught of winter. It is a post apocalyptic landscape, heavy with ash, in which you can hear the absence of birds chirping or bugs buzzing. The language is remarkable. I was reminded of Thomas Hardy for beauty of language, but it is a different sort of beauty. McCarthy uses short declaratives, as if even language was short of breath in the devastation, and terrorizes generations of elementary sch A man and his young son are traveling along a highway, hoping to get far enough south to avoid the onslaught of winter. It is a post apocalyptic landscape, heavy with ash, in which you can hear the absence of birds chirping or bugs buzzing. The language is remarkable. I was reminded of Thomas Hardy for beauty of language, but it is a different sort of beauty. McCarthy uses short declaratives, as if even language was short of breath in the devastation, and terrorizes generations of elementary school english teachers by tossing off verbless phrases as sentences (p 27 - A river far below.) He is effective in turning nouns into verbs, as on p4 \u2013 \u201cwhen it was light enough to use the binoculars he glassed the valley below.\u201d Forgetting the content of the narrative this is a masterwork of style. I was deeply moved by not only the technical skill with which he molds language to his purpose, but the effective emotional impact of the work. This is a book to read slowly, to savor, not one to speed through to hasten ingestion of the plot. There are events that are exceedingly grim in this, focusing on despair, suicide, cannibalism. Yet the love of the father for his son is palpable and despite the omnipresent gray ash, there remain slivers of hope. Highly recommended, but this is not a book for those with a weak stomach. ...more A good friend gave this to me to read. I told him I already had an audiobook working and he said, \"you'll want to read this one\". I could barely put it down. Mesmerizing. McCarthy's prose is simple, fable like, yet also lyrical, like a minamalistic poet. The portrait he has painted is dark and foreboding, difficult and painful, yet he carries \"the fire\" throughout, a spark of hope and love that must be his central message to the reader. Having read the book, not sure if I want to see the film, i A good friend gave this to me to read. I told him I already had an audiobook working and he said, \"you'll want to read this one\". I could barely put it down. Mesmerizing. McCarthy's prose is simple, fable like, yet also lyrical, like a minamalistic poet. The portrait he has painted is dark and foreboding, difficult and painful, yet he carries \"the fire\" throughout, a spark of hope and love that must be his central message to the reader. Having read the book, not sure if I want to see the film, it may spoil my vision of McCarthy's art. ...more Phew. This is a brilliant, bleak, beautiful book, but an emotionally harrowing one, albeit with uplifting aspects (they always cling to a sliver of hope, however tenuous). PLOT There isn't much. But that's fine by me. In the near future, a man and his son traipse south, across a cold, barren, ash-ridden and abandoned land, pushing all their worldly goods in a wonky shopping trolley. They scavenge to survive and are ever-fearful of attack, especially as some of the few survivors have resorted to ca Phew. This is a brilliant, bleak, beautiful book, but an emotionally harrowing one, albeit with uplifting aspects (they always cling to a sliver of hope, however tenuous). PLOT There isn't much. But that's fine by me. In the near future, a man and his son traipse south, across a cold, barren, ash-ridden and abandoned land, pushing all their worldly goods in a wonky shopping trolley. They scavenge to survive and are ever-fearful of attack, especially as some of the few survivors have resorted to cannibalism. Much of the time almost nothing happens, yet that makes it all the more compelling. The boy is very imaginative, empathetic, moral and scared - a difficult combination in the circumstances. There is a deep love and care between man and boy, each projecting their own survival instinct on to the other. In their anxiety, aspects of their relationship take on a ritualistic tone, and some of their conversations are almost liturgical, invariably ending with an assurance that they're the \"good guys\" and things will be \"okay\", yet without becoming banal. Sometimes they are more wary of being seen than others, and at one point I wondered how much was \"real\" and how much might be imagined or paranoia, but that doubt passed. Whatever disaster caused the destruction (it is never explained) was some years before and the father realises that despite their closeness, in some ways \"to the boy he was himself an alien. A being from a planet that no longer existed.\" WRITING STYLE Very distinctive and controversial. It is written in a sparse, somewhat poetic style (\"cold autistic dark\"), often detached (the characters are never named) and fragmented, to match the setting of the book. Even quotation marks and apostrophes are almost absent (used only where their absence might create ambiguity, e.g. we're and were). Initially, I found this pared down language and especially punctuation distracting and infuriating, but when I let go of that, treated it as more of a poem, the minimalism became integral to my appreciation. In fact, it somehow enhances the impact of the story, rather than distracting from it. If it were typset as a prose poem, it might raise fewer hackles . In fact I think I think one reason some people don't \"get\" this book is that they read it as a novel that hasn't been proofread, rather than immersing themselves in it as a prose poem. Much has been made of the intriguingly odd phrase \"The snow fell nor did it cease to fall\", which leapt off the page at me and is also discussed on Language Log: http://languagelog.ldc.upenn.edu/nll/... . RELATED WORKS A film is coming out in the autumn. It could be excellent, but if they try to make it too cheerful, it would lose its purpose. UPDATE: I saw the film, and was impressed (and surprised), but still prefer the book. WARNING: Having enjoyed this, I had high hopes for Outer Dark (my review here http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ), but unfortunately I really didn't like that. I'm unsure whether to read more Cormac McCarthy now. ...more Excuse me please while I cover my face with my hands and quietly sob. In a scorched and dangerous post-apocalyptic America, an unnamed father and son scavenge for food, look for shelter and try to avoid bandits and people who\u2019ve resorted to cannibalism. The two, pushing along their rusty cart, travel the road simply because they must. The alternative is death. I admire the fact that there\u2019s no explanation about how the end of the world happened and why certain people survived. There are a couple o Excuse me please while I cover my face with my hands and quietly sob. In a scorched and dangerous post-apocalyptic America, an unnamed father and son scavenge for food, look for shelter and try to avoid bandits and people who\u2019ve resorted to cannibalism. The two, pushing along their rusty cart, travel the road simply because they must. The alternative is death. I admire the fact that there\u2019s no explanation about how the end of the world happened and why certain people survived. There are a couple of flashbacks, but they have to do with human relationships, not some plague, and have a dreamlike quality about them. This is my first Cormac McCarthy, and it took a while to adjust to his writing style. There are no dialogue quotes. Sentences are often verbless. Contractions have no apostrophes. The language is poetic yet not flowery or excessive. Initially, I found the novel painful to read. It was so bleak and unrelenting, and the characters had no goal except survival: finding that next stash of canned goods, locating oil for a lamp, finding blankets to protect them from the cold, making sure their shoes held out. Ultimately, the love between father and son gives the book its heart, and offers up a bit of hope to the reader. The man must, through example, pass on his knowledge and humanity to the boy. But in a way the boy teaches his father just as much. None of this is remotely sentimental. By depicting a barren universe where nothing grows, McCarthy is surely asking us to appreciate the mysterious bounty of the earth. A moving and timeless post-Thanksgiving theme. And an unforgettable book. ...more One of my favourite of all time. Loved that there was no chapters. Loved everything. Terrifying. The Road is a painful, beautiful, horrifying, heartfelt, and compelling novel about a father and his son that astounded me from its opening pages through to its conclusion. I\u2019ve made known my disparagement for post-apocalyptic stories, which all seem to eventually fall into the same tropes ad museum. You\u2019ve read or watched the stories where one band of survivors tries to survive only to run into another band of survivors who, despite initial appearances, have devolved from society into little mo The Road is a painful, beautiful, horrifying, heartfelt, and compelling novel about a father and his son that astounded me from its opening pages through to its conclusion. I\u2019ve made known my disparagement for post-apocalyptic stories, which all seem to eventually fall into the same tropes ad museum. You\u2019ve read or watched the stories where one band of survivors tries to survive only to run into another band of survivors who, despite initial appearances, have devolved from society into little more than beasts. The Road is patently not that story. Where much of post-apocalyptic literature sets itself apart by small increments, The Road moves as far away from the mores of the genre as possible. McCarthy\u2019s novel focuses on an unnamed father and son who trudge through what is possibly the bleakest future I have ever read. The world is covered in ash, the sun blotted out, food is so scarce that cannibalism is the norm, and as winter approaches our two leads are placed in immense jeopardy. With this grey, black, and white palate, McCarthy paints a relationship in vivid colour. For this novel is truly a novel of fatherhood, unyielding love, and the lengths we go to for the ones we love. A recurring conversation between the boy and his father is their status as carriers of the fire. While at first it seems like a cheap contrivance, by the novel\u2019s end I was dazed by how they truly do illuminate the novel. The moments shared between father and son demonstrate love overtly and subtly. In the man\u2019s struggle to keep the darker parts of the world from his son despite their ubiquity, the reader comes to know the character of the man. The moments are so many and too well written to be sullied by my meager paraphrasing. Suffice to say that these moments are delivered without artifice, pretense, or falseness. The novel is raw, and it comes through not only from the world or emotion, but also from the writing. My only previous encounter with McCarthy was a good four to five years ago when I attempted to make my way through Blood Meridian . Though it has been a long time between my abandonment of that novel and my reading of The Road , I have to wonder if I was too harsh on the former. McCarthy ignores a great deal of grammar, preferring to eschew commas, quotation marks, and apostrophes for the bare minimum required to convey his idea. Though I normally wouldn\u2019t appreciate this, it was impossible for me not to be drawn in by the poetry in this language which, much like its setting, is stripped of pretense. The Road is a harrowing read, there\u2019s no doubt about it. Though for all its horrors and inhumanity, I came to the novel\u2019s end thinking it to be an ultimately hope-filled novel. What's more, it is a compelling adventure in that it is a story about the struggle to survive. What this novel has is what other post-apocalyptic fiction lacks: heart. Against a tide of incessant desolation stand a man and his son, and their love holds aloft the fire of humanity, the essence upon which our societies are built. I cannot recommend this novel enough, and it will definitely not be my last from McCarthy. ...more Terror. Stark naked, clear as the day and indelible in its intensity. Terror that turns its unflinching gaze on you, commanding you to quake in your boots and disintegrate into pieces. This book is that kind of cold dread that seeps into your blood like insidious venom and drains away your strength in a steady, agonizing trickle as you read along. The horror of being stranded in a world, where the living live on either to become sustenance for other survivors or to hunt and feast on fellow breth Terror. Stark naked, clear as the day and indelible in its intensity. Terror that turns its unflinching gaze on you, commanding you to quake in your boots and disintegrate into pieces. This book is that kind of cold dread that seeps into your blood like insidious venom and drains away your strength in a steady, agonizing trickle as you read along. The horror of being stranded in a world, where the living live on either to become sustenance for other survivors or to hunt and feast on fellow brethren to survive, becomes as real as the morning sunlight pouring in to your room through the gauzy curtains. The trouble with dystopian fiction (literary and otherwise) is that if you have read one book from the genre you have pretty much read them all. And the rather unabashed confession I have to make in this regard is that I have read quite a lot of them - this is the 'guilty pleasure' I am not really guilty of indulging in once in a while. But when the focus of the discussion on dystopias shifts to a universally read book like 'The Road' then opinions range from acerbically negative criticism, a patronizing, reluctant pat on the back to disappointed neutrality and effusive praise. Cormac McCarthy's prose has also garnered less than enthusiastic responses from quite a significant number of reviewers. I suppose some thought his metaphors to be too flowery for their taste. While the rest have found him to be repetitive and dull. Fair enough. But I did not. To bring to life a world, where there's nothing left to do except scrounge around for nourishment, it is obvious the author will be hard pressed to elaborately detail the act of unscrewing a jar top and drinking from it. The monotone adopted while chronicling these trivial actions conveys the chilling truth of how much gravity is being accorded to affairs considered undeserving of even a passing mention in a former way of life. Thus, I refuse to join in the chorus of complaints. The very visceral and undiluted reaction the narrative elicited from me as a reader, caused me to refrain from belittling McCarthy's gift for utilizing the same old genre tropes to offer such insightful commentary on the human condition. And despite its bleak and nihilistic leanings, 'The Road' surprised me with its deft handling of a subject as sensitive as a parent-child relationship, a theme that is often explored in many fictional narratives but with varying degrees of success. More than any tear-inducing gimmickry, the relationship depicted here bears a frighteningly close resemblance to how things are in reality. Our two unnamed vagrants, a listless father-son duo, who move down this seemingly endless road strewn with the debris of a world long gone and the echoes of a way of life no longer preserved, seemed to me to be representatives of a large majority of humans. The father acts as a kind of misery-sponge, enduring the brunt of all the vicissitudes of fate that await them on this cruel and unforgiving peregrination, while shielding the son from the same. And as the toil of this godforsaken journey wears the parent down to the point of no return, the child is familiarized with the brutalities of the world at large and gently shown the ways in which one can side-step all the unpleasantness and maintain an existence without challenging authority in any form. Isn't this what a majority of humans have been seeking to accomplish on an infinite loop? 'Survive and don't ask for trouble in any form.' is the motto etched onto the blank slate of our minds since childhood. All the horrors lying in ambush for this father-son pair, starting from chance encounters with roving bands of cannibals to combating the evident threat of starvation and the bitter cold which freezes them to the bone, can be taken to be allegories of all the challenges of living that individually all of us have to contend with. The metaphorical road is just another minefield where one can never foresee the kind of evils one wrong step may unleash. All the lawless laws, by which the world is governed once the formerly established edifice of order and organization has crumbled to dust, are deeply reminiscent of the relentless cycle of injustices institutionalized by our so-called 'civilization'. Just as the weak are preyed upon and devoured alive in this dystopia, the downtrodden and oppressed are victims of a sort of economic cannibalism enshrined in the 'laws' of our reality. The scales are tipped ever in the favor of those who wield power in some form; in this dystopia it is the possession of a weapon, in ours it is the ownership of wealth. \"The last instance of a thing takes the class with it. Turns out the light and is gone. Look around you. Ever is a long time. But the boy knew what he knew. That ever is no time at all.\" It disturbs me how near invisible the line of separation between an imagined dystopia and a real one is. ...more I wrestled with a final rating for this. \"The Road\" definitely has merit. The style is purposefully minimalist. As others have noted there are very few apostrophe's, no commas, no quotation marks. The font is dull. The paragraphs carry extra spacing. The words are clipped. This all works very well for setting the atmosphere. As others have offered it is also not the job of the author to explain away all questions. Leaving a sense of mystery can be very good for a story. We should expect that in t I wrestled with a final rating for this. \"The Road\" definitely has merit. The style is purposefully minimalist. As others have noted there are very few apostrophe's, no commas, no quotation marks. The font is dull. The paragraphs carry extra spacing. The words are clipped. This all works very well for setting the atmosphere. As others have offered it is also not the job of the author to explain away all questions. Leaving a sense of mystery can be very good for a story. We should expect that in the end there should be some questions left unanswered. We should expect this all the more when the story is written in a third person form that has a nearly claustrophobic attachment to the characters perspective. However, we should always expect the story to make sense based on what we know of how the world works. The setting is not just furniture. This is true in all settings, even fantasy and science fiction. In Tolkien's world dragons may breath fire but apples still fall down. As the setting becomes grittier we should expect the rules to be tighter and more menacing. Unfortunately, rules don't apply in \"The Road\". We are presented with an apocalyptic world where every meal counts and where people have turned to cannibalism to survive. And here we are presented with our first problem. Cannibalism as a survival technique isn't very efficient. Eating people that are emaciated by hunger doesn't result in a good transfer of calories. Yet the book strongly implies that the cannibalistic cults have been active for years. Also odd is that they have avoided the bodies. The father and son are constantly coming across corpses. Some of them still smell. More than a few are mummified. Why not boil those down, since they seem to be plentiful, before having to chase and hunt humans \"on the hoof\"? It isn't that this makes the cults suicidal and stupid, the problem is that there is no reason for them still existing. There are other logical inconstancies. The father and son eat dried apples from a field in a world were clouds, rain, and snow seem to be constant. How exactly are they dry? The sun can't dry them out and neither can the heat. All of that is gone. Nothing grows except one instance of fungus. If everything is dead, except the humans, where did the fungus come from? If fungus survived, why not moss? After all of this time why isn't life coming back? Even Chernobyl is virtual a parkland now. There appears to be no radiation in this world yet nothing lives, why? There are fires being set by the cults yet houses, and the author spends some time describing what is wooden frame construction sitting next to the burnt out houses, still stand. Fires are also being set to what, charcoal? The author doesn't have to explain all of these things, but he does have to be consistent. Since humans, lumbering giants at the tip of the food pyramid, survived he has to show what happened to the mice. And no, canned food doesn't count. Even a survivalist will only pack enough for his family for six months to a few years. The book implies that the son was born at the time of the disaster and he's old enough now to hold a conversation and be useful which implies that he's at least four years old. Why isn't the food all gone? Given that nothing lives, why not avoid the calorie expenditure and sit on any store of food you find rather than tromping through freezing weather to find the shore. Most critical of all, if there is a reason, why not impart this reason to your son? Since the book never answers these questions it has to rely on style, which is done well, and a questionable emotional appeal. It is, in many ways, the worst of modern decadence. It expects us to not ask any important questions about the setting and instead feel for the horrors that the characters face. It is a very subtle and powerful form of emotional blackmail. It teaches us to be less than human, to fear and not to think about what we fear. ...more This review can now be seen at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud . McCarthyites strongly cautioned. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Unported License . The Road is a moving and terrifying post-apocalyptic novel that deserves its notoriety. The two unnamed characters, a father and a son, set out on a nightmarish, nearly impossible journey. It is hard to stop reading once you start. I felt a bit nauseous at times but as always the spare but beautiful, powerful writing of McCarthy is spellbinding. I definitely understand why this book got a Pulitzer. Now, gotta watch the movie! There are some books which literally sweep you of your feet and leave you gasping for breath. As one grows older and the reading palate more jaded, the chance of finding such a book becomes rarer and rarer; so the actual discovery of one is all the more delightful. The Road by Cormac McCarthy is such a book. By all means, the story ought to have been a cliche: it explores the hackneyed dystopic theme of a group of people moving across a blasted landscape. The fact that it turns out to be one of th There are some books which literally sweep you of your feet and leave you gasping for breath. As one grows older and the reading palate more jaded, the chance of finding such a book becomes rarer and rarer; so the actual discovery of one is all the more delightful. The Road by Cormac McCarthy is such a book. By all means, the story ought to have been a cliche: it explores the hackneyed dystopic theme of a group of people moving across a blasted landscape. The fact that it turns out to be one of the most powerful reading experiences instead, is due to McCarthy's narrative power, and the story's focus on the father-son bond rather than the horrors of the road. The unnamed protagonists are moving south across an America of the future in search of warmth and food; a land which has been destroyed by a massive cataclysm which is never described. Some kind of deflagration is suggested (maybe nuclear). There are no animals left, and dead and charred trees dot the landscape. The sun is seldom seen, and it rains ash almost constantly. Nightmare people populate this nightmare landscape: cannibals who keep people penned up in basements for meat and roast infants on spits. The strength of the novel is that most of this information is incidental. McCarthy does not dwell on the horrors, but mentions them in passing and moves ahead. The focus is always on the man and the boy, and their stubborn will to survive. The cataclysm has occurred suddenly: the man remembers a time when everything was \"normal\" (in our everyday sense of the word). For the boy, this is \"normal\". Both father and son have adapted to their dismal environment seamlessly. Their lives are reduced to the basics of any living organism: food, shelter and the avoidance of death. As the story unfolds, we find the man slowly moving towards an animalistic state of existence; all vestiges of altruism, of \u201chumanity\u201d, are stripped away. He will do anything to survive, even if he destroys other human beings in the process. The only person he cares about, other than himself, is his son. As the story moves towards its resolution, the mood of quiet desperation mounts uncontrollably, reaching a crescendo on the father's death: however, the author does not let us down. The small flame of hope kept alight throughout the novel is left burning at the end, so that The Road ultimately proves redemptive. There are no chapters in this novel. It is written in short sections, and perfectly parallels the endless procession of nights and days of the journey. The dialogue is staccato, repetitive and Hemingway-esque. I found McCarthy's signature way of writing without punctuation apt for the subject matter. The many dialogues between father and son, mostly consisting of the word \u201cokay\u201d repeated many times (when things are definitely not \u201cokay\u201d-nice bit of tragic irony here) revolve around a single theme: the father assuring the son that they are not going to die, and they will find the \u201cgood\u201d people. Instead of being boring, the repeated theme is strangely effective. The man\u2019s sense of nostalgia for a time irrevocably lost and his love for his son comes across with an emotional force which is almost painful. In fact, the child is almost deified. Consider the following passage (which is sheer poetry): In the morning they came up out of the ravine and took to the road again. He\u2019d carved the boy a flute from a piece of roadside cane and he took it from his coat and gave it to him. The boy took it wordlessly. After a while he fell back and after a while the man could hear him playing. A formless music for the age to come. Or perhaps the last music on earth called up from the ashes of its ruin. The man turned and looked back at him. He was lost in concentration. The man thought he seemed some sad and solitary changeling child announcing the arrival of a travelling spectacle in shire and village who does not know that behind him the players have all been carried off by wolves. The boy takes on mythical overtones here (Krishna with his flute or Pan with his pipes): a remnant of a pastoral idyll which has been sadly burnt away. We know instinctively that the child will survive. Because, as the man says in his dying speech, he is the carrier of the fire\u2026 You\u2019re going to be okay, Papa. You have to. No I\u2019m not. Keep the gun with you at all times. You need to find good guys but you can\u2019t take any chances. No chances. Do you hear? I want to be with you. You cant. Please. You cant. You have to carry the fire. Is it real? The fire? Yes it is. Where is it? I dont know where it is. Yes you do. It\u2019s inside you. It was always there. I can see it. This is the true Promethean fire, burning forever inside mankind\u2019s heart, even while suffering eternal punishment at the behest of gods. This is the fire which is passed down from generation to generation, igniting the mind of the scientist, the artist, the writer and the revolutionary. As long as one knows one has passed it on, one can die peacefully. This novel is an emotional onslaught which will rip you apart, will shatter your world so that it can never be reassembled together in the same way again (I was in tears by the end). Very highly recommended. ...more I seem to be the last one on the planet to have read this \"Dystopian Masterpiece\" destined to go down in history as blah blah blah. :) Yeah, it's good. Simple tale told extremely simply. Poetic in places, very realistic in almost all ways, and it was true to human nature, both in the good and in the bad. People are scared. It's how we deal with the fear that makes us good people or average or just plain bad. This is true at all times, of course, not just when the rubber tires on the highway have m I seem to be the last one on the planet to have read this \"Dystopian Masterpiece\" destined to go down in history as blah blah blah. :) Yeah, it's good. Simple tale told extremely simply. Poetic in places, very realistic in almost all ways, and it was true to human nature, both in the good and in the bad. People are scared. It's how we deal with the fear that makes us good people or average or just plain bad. This is true at all times, of course, not just when the rubber tires on the highway have melted into the pavement. If we deal with the terror with optimism and decency, such as the kid deals with it, we see it as how we would like to be, but how the man deals with it is a lot more realistic, full of self-deception and compromise and desperation. The best part of the novel is in the descriptions, the heavily oppressive setting. I personally thought these two characters were a bit too everyman for extended consumption. Fortunately, this classic is also rather short, so it didn't really bother me that much. Well! Now I can say I've read the classic, even though it's pretty much like all the bookcases of dystopian literature I've already read. :) Nothing groundbreaking, just solid writing and a universal feel. I suppose this is what makes classics, classics. ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ \u201cOn this road there are no godspoke men. They are gone and I am left and they have taken with them the world.\u201d This is another one of those \u201c100 books you should read before you go to that big ol\u2019 malt shop in the sky\u201d that I attempt to read a couple of every year. For whatever reason there was a huge waiting list at the library and when it finally became my turn to ease on down The Road I discovered Jeff and The Hufflepuff were getti Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ \u201cOn this road there are no godspoke men. They are gone and I am left and they have taken with them the world.\u201d This is another one of those \u201c100 books you should read before you go to that big ol\u2019 malt shop in the sky\u201d that I attempt to read a couple of every year. For whatever reason there was a huge waiting list at the library and when it finally became my turn to ease on down The Road I discovered Jeff and The Hufflepuff were getting ready for a buddy read. Me being me, I immediately invited myself to join their party, but Jeff was all like . . . Luckily I\u2019m super strong (or he\u2019s super weak \u2013 tomato/tomahto) so I was able to elbow my way right in to the cool kids table. Then I couldn\u2019t stop myself from reading this book in like two hours and proved once again why no one should ever want to buddy up with me. I have a shame : ( The one perk of reading with me is you get Mitchell\u2019s input when it comes to reviews. Jeff has already had the \u201cfull Mitchell experience\u201d (if you know what I\u2019m sayin\u2019 *wink wink*) so he allowed Ashley temporary custody this go around \u2013 leaving me with Harvey Dent (get it, Two Face? because his face is in two different parts? Ha! I kill me!!!) as this review\u2019s co-host . . . What better friend to read a book about a lonely trek down a road through a deserted wasteland than a dude who looks like he might have been found on the side of the road in a deserted wasteland, right? You\u2019re probably beginning to wonder when I\u2019m finally going to start talking about this book, huh? There\u2019s not really much I can say. The Road is a love it or hate it kind of story. Obviously from my rating I fall into the love it category, but I can completely understand how it falls short for many. The setting is . . . well, the road \u2013 duh \u2013 that extends through a desolate post-apocalyptic 'Murica, but you don\u2019t know how the world got to be that way. Tiny Easter Eggs are left to inform you that the story takes place in the near future, but again no definitive answer. The characters are minimally developed \u2013 I\u2019m talking they don\u2019t even have names. The writing is sparse, the situation bleak. And the road? As The Beatles once said, it\u2019s long and winding . . . . I sat down thinking I would read 50 pages and stop in order to stay on track with my buddies. I had no idea I wouldn\u2019t be able to put this book down. I was drawn in immediately and couldn\u2019t leave the world of the man and the boy until I turned the last page. I\u2019m fairly certain I lost a couple of pounds from all the virtual walking too, so BONUS! As I said, this is not a book for everyone \u2013 but if you\u2019re looking to add to your Pulitzer Prize winners list or want your friends to believe that you are a super genius while they are reading crap, The Road is short and easy to get through. And if you have a phobia of quotation marks? McCarthy\u2019s books might be the only books written especially for you : ) If you really want to be a cheater, apparently this is a movie too \u2013 but Viggo Mortensen like this . . . equals ewww. I prefer this . . . thank you very much. ...more The Road is a literary mash up composed of equal parts William Faulkner, Raymond Carver, Samuel Beckett, and pulp sci-fi. This sounds great on paper but works only about 50% of the time. For the first 25-30 pages of The Road my BS detector rang like a fire alarm. It soon quieted down, but ultimately the things I disliked about the book\u2014it\u2019s egregiously overwritten in places and some of McCarthy\u2019s more \u201cexperimental\u201d techniques seem arbitrary --kept me from fully appreciating its virtues. It took The Road is a literary mash up composed of equal parts William Faulkner, Raymond Carver, Samuel Beckett, and pulp sci-fi. This sounds great on paper but works only about 50% of the time. For the first 25-30 pages of The Road my BS detector rang like a fire alarm. It soon quieted down, but ultimately the things I disliked about the book\u2014it\u2019s egregiously overwritten in places and some of McCarthy\u2019s more \u201cexperimental\u201d techniques seem arbitrary --kept me from fully appreciating its virtues. It took James Woods\u2019 definitive review in The New Republic to help me see what there is to like about it. Wood praises The Road for: the way the McCarthy taps into a post 9/11 fear of apocalypse; his combination of an ornate lyricism a\u2019la William Faulkner with the deadpan minimalism of Raymond Carver; and for McCarthy's rigorous attempt to imagine what a post-apocalyptic world would look and feel like. The Road doesn't extrapolate a dystopian future from some present fear or potential calamity. Rather it plops its characters down in a world engulfed by some kind of nuclear winter (the cause of the catastrophe is never specified) and obsessively imagines what that world would look and feel like. Despite these virtues, there\u2019s just something about the way The Road is executed that puts me off. Critics praise McCarthy for his linguistic inventiveness, and there are some beautiful passages in The Road, but the writing often struck me as showy rather than inventive. I mean, what\u2019s so \u201cinventive\u201d about the arbitrary splicing together of two words? How much linguistic creativity does it take to call a cash register a cashregister, or a pump organ a pumporgan. Such devices occur frequently enough to annoy but not often enough to add much to the musicality of the prose. Then there\u2019s the frequent use of antiquated words: gryke, discalced, scribing, laved, etc. There\u2019s nothing wrong with this in principle\u2014writers should make maximum use of the linguistic resources available to them. A generous interpretation of this tic would be that it adds to the sense of inhabiting a time that\u2019s spiritually detached from the present, or makes the point that the future involves regression rather than progress. But it struck me as showy and gratuitous--a kind of screw you to 21st century sub-literates. The other thing that bugged me was the frequent dropping of profundity bombs\u2014brief portentous statements tacked onto the end of a paragraph that hint at philosophical or religious themes. Two problems with these: First, they are almost always duds; they are never developed and rarely explode into meaning. Second, they often come wrapped in convoluted syntax that I suspect obscures their banality. So, in this case, is McCarthy tweaking the language to make the banal sound profound? Despite these misgivings I liked the book and found it hard to put down. When McCarthy stays in his minimalist register the writing is quite good. He definitely creates a mood, and many of the word-pictures he paints, especially when describing landscapes or the objects necessary to the two main characters\u2019 survival, are quite beautiful. And I do have to give him props, as Wood notes, for advancing the post-apocalypse sub-genre by creating a remorselessly unedifying world in which our present concerns have almost completely faded from memory. Most of the dialogue in The Road is banal in the extreme, and the characters are almost completely without inner lives. But give McCarthy credit for credibly representing the psychological reality of a world in which the things that support inner lives\u2014history, culture, community, an unacknowledged but ever present sense that humanity will extend into the indefinite future\u2014have all but disappeared. McCarthy doesn\u2019t tell us how to avoid the apocalypse, but he gives us a pretty good sense of how we\u2019ll be spending our days when it comes. ...more Everyone warned me it was depressing, but I read it anyway. I read it anyway because each and every one of those people also said The Road was really great. They were right. With masterstrokes of economic elegance, McCarthy colors his spartan, post-apocalyptic landscape, bringing a barren world to life in all its misery. The characters are developed only as deeply as necessary, showing admirable restraint by the author. Yet even with the barest of bare essentials a character could possess (they Everyone warned me it was depressing, but I read it anyway. I read it anyway because each and every one of those people also said The Road was really great. They were right. With masterstrokes of economic elegance, McCarthy colors his spartan, post-apocalyptic landscape, bringing a barren world to life in all its misery. The characters are developed only as deeply as necessary, showing admirable restraint by the author. Yet even with the barest of bare essentials a character could possess (they don't even have names!), I still found myself pulling for them in a way I seldom do. The Road is a compact, tightly-wound novel that truly deserves the praise it has received. ...more Gorgeously written. Evocative and powerful. The atmosphere is bleak and depressing but so immersive. I definitely teared up a bit at the end. Set in a post apocalypse, post extinction event world \u2013 this is the story of a man and his boy, a Father and his son and their attempt to make their way through a destroyed and devastated world. This is a book about fear, death and utter devastation in every sense; it\u2019s about a very real struggle for survival and about the sometimes shocking cruelty of life, the world and its inhabitants. Ultimately however it\u2019s the story of life, hope and kindness; it\u2019s about the human spirit and the quest for Set in a post apocalypse, post extinction event world \u2013 this is the story of a man and his boy, a Father and his son and their attempt to make their way through a destroyed and devastated world. This is a book about fear, death and utter devastation in every sense; it\u2019s about a very real struggle for survival and about the sometimes shocking cruelty of life, the world and its inhabitants. Ultimately however it\u2019s the story of life, hope and kindness; it\u2019s about the human spirit and the quest for survival. Despite and in spite of the devastated world in which this is depicted, it is a story about hope and about living in the \u2018here and now\u2019 and ultimately redemption. Everything about this novel is great, the prose, the dialogue between Father and son (so simple, so very touching and affecting) the feel of authenticity and the creation of a world, of a story that will stay with the reader for a very long time. \u2018The Road\u2019 is a monumental, powerful, profound, moving, compelling, engaging, original and great novel \u2013 one that is hard to put down and one that I didn\u2019t want to end. Just a quick word on the film adaptation \u2013 this is a very good film which is largely faithful to the book, well-acted and directed - however it does lack the same sense of emotional intensity as the novel, and it also either omits or down plays one or two key (more shocking scenes). Worth watching but the novel is in a different league altogether. Don\u2019t miss reading this book \u2013 highly highly recommended. ...more", "Title": "The Road"},
