{"Comments": "I'm only adding this book because it annoys me that it popped up on the \"most popular reads.<---F>\" People, this book is terrible</---F>. Do yourself a favor and pretend you'd never heard of it. My short answer is that it's just no good, the long version is in the following list, which I call \"The Problems I Have With The Time-Traveler's Wife.\" 1. The author is indecisive. Rather than accepting that this is a science-fiction novel,<---M> she tries to write a social commentary</---M>, romance, and art and music novel all r I'm only adding this book because it annoys me that it popped up on the \"most popular reads.\" People, this book is terrible. Do yourself a favor and pretend you'd never heard of it. My short answer is that it's just no good, the long version is in the following list, which I call \"The Problems I Have With The Time-Traveler's Wife.\" 1. The author is indecisive. Rather than accepting that this is a science-fiction novel, she tries to write a social commentary, romance, and art and music novel all rolled into one. There is so much name-dropping that it's distracting\u2014classical music, entomology, poetry, romance languages, library science, the American punk scene, constructivist painters, you get the idea\u2014they're all continually cropping up at the most inane times. What should give us a better understanding of the characters actually paints them as shells of people, identified only by superficialities. There is one completely pointless mention of a Moholy-Nagy poster that really annoyed me. I had five years of design school and while I know who Laszlo Moholy-Nagy is and how to correctly pronounce his name, I couldn't pick one of his paintings out of a lineup of his contemporaries, so I didn't even buy that this dude who has spent half of his life in limbo was some kind of expert. 2. The title character's entire life and family are so difficult to relate to that I immediately hated her. She grew up in a house that has books written about it (<---B>irritating architecture reference</---B>) and everyone must \"dress\" for dinner at her parents' house, as if this were a Bront\u00eb novel. 3. Her family employ five black servants. In a Christmas scene, for which the servants are unchained from the stove and allowed into the dining room, the cook actually toasts to \"Miz Abshire.\" This book was written in 2004! How can the \"Mammy\" have any place here? She isn't even the only racially stereotyped character in this book. The traveler's childhood downstairs neighbor, a grandmotherly woman he refers to as Kimmy, speaks in a broken English which could have been stolen directly from a hateful gold rush-era cartoon. 4. The book skips back and forth between the point-of-view of the title character and the time-traveler himself, but there is absolutely no difference in their voices. I think I actually got confused a few times about who was speaking. 5. The phrase, \u201cshe was pale under her makeup\u201d was used three times. 6. The chapters dealing with infertility were completely unoriginal, boring, and emotionally flat. 7. Not only are conversations unnecessarily long, but they are often followed by page after page of internal dialogue as the characters rehash and analyze every point of said conversation. Sorry this was so long, but this might be the worst book I've ever read and I'm really confused by all the good reviews. ...more I recently read The Time-Traveler's Wife and was pretty disappointed---the author somehow manages to turn such an awesome premise (the dude actually time travels!) into something pretty flat and dull. The first hundred pages really hooked me, but after a while I started to get irritated by: 1. All the name checking of hipster-approved bands in an attempt to establish Henry's supposed \"punk\" cred. He liked the Violent Femmes in 1991. That's why he's so badass? Seriously? 2. The food porny descripti I recently read The Time-Traveler's Wife and was pretty disappointed---the author somehow manages to turn such an awesome premise (the dude actually time travels!) into something pretty flat and dull. The first hundred pages really hooked me, but after a while I started to get irritated by: 1. All the name checking of hipster-approved bands in an attempt to establish Henry's supposed \"punk\" cred. He liked the Violent Femmes in 1991. That's why he's so badass? Seriously? 2. The food porny descriptions of the meals they eat. Some paragraphs read like the menu of a pretentious bistro. 3. The awful ethnic stereotypes that characterize the few non-white characters (Nell, the mammy-esque family cook (complete with dialect), or Charisse, the \"childlike\" Filipina). 4. The fact that everyone is successful and at least upper middle class, if not fabulously wealthy. Even Henry somehow manages to keep his job at the Newberry library for 20 years, despite his habits of disappearing for odd stretches of time, not keeping appointments, and, oh, running around naked in the stacks from time to time. It would have been more interesting to me if his disorder kept him from having any normal kind of professional life. 5. The lack of character development in the protagonists after they finally meet as adults. All of a sudden, they meet and they're in love. The author gives lip service to Henry's womanizing and drug problems, but really, they don't seem to pose much more than a passing problem for Clare because she already knows they'll get married. And even as a married couple, their biggest source of conflict (whether they can or should have a child) is extrinsic, rather than intrinsic to their personalities/characters. Clare never really seems to be bothered by her lack of independence, or the fact that she's so tethered to Henry because he had a part in making her who she is, etc. By the time I actually got to the end of the story, I was too emotionally distanced from the characters to really be moved by what happens to them---the burden of plot winds up outsripping any kind of nuanced characterization. Bad science fiction and bad romance. Bah humbug. ...more Why can't there be a negative star rating? I hated, hated this book. And yes, I did finish it. All way-too-many pages of it. But, in my defense it was (foolishly) the only book I brought with me when I was hospitalized for 24 hours after wisdom tooth surgery, and when your options are daytime soaps or this wretched book...well, at least I got to read the ending and conclude definitively that it wasn't worth it. Okay, now that I've gotten a bit of a rant out, let me be a little more organized abo Why can't there be a negative star rating? I hated, hated this book. And yes, I did finish it. All way-too-many pages of it. But, in my defense it was (foolishly) the only book I brought with me when I was hospitalized for 24 hours after wisdom tooth surgery, and when your options are daytime soaps or this wretched book...well, at least I got to read the ending and conclude definitively that it wasn't worth it. Okay, now that I've gotten a bit of a rant out, let me be a little more organized about my dislikes: 1. The sex. More accurately, the sex after sex after sex, in graphic detail (not pornographic detail, granted, but WAY more than I wanted to picture), at all sorts of different ages. Wow. Yeah, I just hated that. If it serves a purpose to the plot, fine, include it, but don't give me every single move. I just don't need to know that. 2. The plot was convoluted. I can say this fairly because I read it in practically one sitting, and while I was able to keep things straight, it would have served the book better to not attempt to take in so many sub-plots and minutia. 3. Okay, I will admit that for having a sci-fi premise, the concept of time travel as outlined here was at least moderately believable. What I didn't like was that it wasn't especially original (anyone seen Journeyman?) yet had the pretension that it was. 4. The whole crux of the novel was the great love story between Henry and Claire. Yet, as a reader I'm much more interested and moved by two NICE people ending up together, and staying together, than two people I just don't like that much. Let's face it, Henry is not a great guy. And there's that whole poor-rich-girl thing going on with Claire. I just wasn't feeling it. Okay, all of that said, I really don't recommend this book to anyone. I realize there are a lot of people that like it (I know; I checked the reviews expecting to be completely vindicated, but alas, it seems I'm in the minority) but those people who like it apparently enjoy a different class of book than I do. There are so many great works out there, why waste your time with this? ...more Warning: Spoilery review. Short version: Hurry up and read this. Holy crap. Someone should have warned me about reading this book at work. I have been sitting here bawling my eyes out, tears streaming madly down my cheeks, flooding my eyes until the words swim into fields of glistening black lines. This book is so beautiful and anguishing to read I can't even be objective about it, because it was one of those stories that just burrowed a lot closer to home than you could ever feel comfortable wi Warning: Spoilery review. Short version: Hurry up and read this. Holy crap. Someone should have warned me about reading this book at work. I have been sitting here bawling my eyes out, tears streaming madly down my cheeks, flooding my eyes until the words swim into fields of glistening black lines. This book is so beautiful and anguishing to read I can't even be objective about it, because it was one of those stories that just burrowed a lot closer to home than you could ever feel comfortable with. Really, though, even objectively I have little to offer in the way of criticism. What was probably a nightmare of a book to write was woven together seamlessly, so beautifully constructed it seems more like a living, organic thing than an idea born inside someone's head. I liked the foreshadowing, I liked the intricacy, I liked that we never really know what Alba chooses in the future, whether she embraces the time travel or tries to stop it. I loved the poignant pain that begins to trickle across the pages as the pieces begin falling into place. I am curious to see how Clare and Alba's relationship developed once Henry was gone, but I was happy it was not in the story. That there are plenty of things for my imagination to fill in makes me happy. I also really liked the approach the author took to the paradox of time travel. It seemed the most plausible, unarguable position I've ever heard (and I have taken a class on it), though I have not allowed myself to think about it too hard as I have no wish, at least within the context of this book, to unravel how much sense it makes. What really hit me in the gut (seriously, I did not even cry this hard when I read \" Where the Red Fern Grows \" for the first time, and I got red-faced, puffy-eyed and ugly over that one), was the horrible feeling that I could see myself as Clare and know exactly how she felt about Henry, and could fill the unwritten pages of her future with grief that I would know and understand. I cannot imagine losing my husband. I cannot imagine ever having to face a day knowing that he was not there, and never would be again. No matter how much I would want to think that for his sake I would be strong, go on, live out my life with joy and accomplishment as he would have wanted, the truth is I would probably wind up just like Henry's father, a wasted, squandered creature who does not know how to exist alone without the sound of his laughter, the warmth of his arms around my body, the feel of his head resting against my chest, the drowsy murmur of \"I love you\" against my ear as we drift off to sleep, the domestic intimacy and companionship that accompanies the hiss of bacon frying in the skillet as he and I stand side by side fixing breakfast on Sunday mornings. I do not know who I would be without those things, but I would be someone unrecognizable from who I am now. This book is also listed on IMDB, which really excites me, as I think it could be a beautiful movie. Everything it needs to be good is right here in the book, and because of the manner of Henry's death, it even lacks the melodramatic twist that most dramas rely on, such as a car accident, an act of God, or something else outside of the character's control. No, there is culpability here, and that is an incredibly powerful thing. While it was not the purpose of this book to examine how Claire dealt with her father and brother after Henry 's death, or how they dealt with themselves, it would have been so interesting to see. There's too much to like about this book, and something so real and raw and powerful about the sadness and grief it portrays. Incredible. ...more i hate reading books that everyone keeps bothering me to read. first there are the gushing reviews from the media, complete with intelligent sound clips: \"it's so awesome! so titillating! the way the author captures that thing where the girl says that stuff and then they go to that cool place.. you know? even oprah says so!\" and then there are the crowds of friends who carry around their freshly bought \"it\" book (ok, i'm bitter, i can't afford to buy new books) who can't wait to share their newf i hate reading books that everyone keeps bothering me to read. first there are the gushing reviews from the media, complete with intelligent sound clips: \"it's so awesome! so titillating! the way the author captures that thing where the girl says that stuff and then they go to that cool place.. you know? even oprah says so!\" and then there are the crowds of friends who carry around their freshly bought \"it\" book (ok, i'm bitter, i can't afford to buy new books) who can't wait to share their newfound genius at having read said new \"it\" book. they want to tell you... ooh, but erin hasn't read it yet, has she? ugh. well we'll just have to discuss later, then. *SIGH*\". have you read it yet? have you read it yet? have you read it yet? have you---OW. \"OW\" being the moment i use aforementioned freshly purchased \"it\" book to smack someone over the head, thus ending my brief first and last encounter with said book, forever. unless it wins a nobel prize and i'm required to read it for sake of my intelligence. which has NEVER HAPPENED. *spoiler alert* HOWEVER. (sorry, this all caps thing is growing on me) however, a used copy of the time travelers wife was the biggest book i could find in the bargin bin before i boarded my 5 hour flight back to the east coast this holiday season, and therefore i found myself starting a novel that's been beaten over my head by all my bffs since it came out. and let me tell you, small cabin space and an a measly in-flight movie selection of \"the game plan\" and \"george lopez's shitty sitcom whatever it's called\" were the only things keeping me from dropping my interest throughout the first couple of chapters. i wanted to like these characters, because i like time travel, and anyone who gets to try it out should definitely also be cool. but i kept wondering, when does it get good? when does it get good? when does it get--- and i'm not sure when it happened, but suddenly it got GOOD. i mean, really good. it wasn't really enough for me, just wondering when claire and henry would get together, because, to be honest, i wasn't that invested in their characters. i can't explain this, because i can't pinpoint the reason. the quality of writing was decent, i can find no specific thread to rant on about the characters not being developed... there was just no hook. after the first tiny intro at the very very beginning, i kept waiting for that sense of urgency to come back. and then it did. suddenly, beautifully, there was so much for them to live for, and as soon as i got that lovely, dreadful inkling that henry was going to die... of COURSE he has to die, shut up, i didn't spoil anything, this is a love story... then i couldn't get enough. i think the build up of flash backs helped incredibly in this as well, because after i had gained this huge database of memories i was inexplicably and wonderfully tied up in the drama of their stories. it was a slow, eventual build, but the payoff was WELL (there's that caps button again! god it's fun) worth it. which, let me tell you, almost never happens in these cases (unless you write \"a million little pieces\" and oprah shoves her big foot in her mouth and people like me get to watch the spectle on cnn between episodes of \"arrested developement\". lovely. ps. in a random, non funny tangent, i would also like to briefly comment on the fact that she wouldn't give up having her all important baby. wow, annoying. i felt just as tired as henry. give it up woman, you're wasting precious time with him and exhausting everybody on your insane quest. don't get me wrong, i felt really bad for her during the first part... but SIX miscarriages? i know there's an element like \"who could handle that much sadness\", but i got to thinking, \"who could bring that much death on themselves\"? where is the point where you say, it's not going to work, and i'll accept that? i was frustrated because i felt like she was spending what little time she had with henry making him worried about everything when they could have just been... living. there. done. DONE. wooooooo ...more Let me start this by saying I was very excited to read this book. I thought it was going to be good. It is not in any way good. It could have been good, the idea could have soared but in Niffenegger's hands it was destroyed by laundry lists of grocery bag contents, street directions, and punk bands until I even said, out loud, more than once, \"okay, I get it.\" He bought groceries, he knows how to get around in Chicago, Clare likes to clean her studio, he is not just a punk rock poser but the rea Let me start this by saying I was very excited to read this book. I thought it was going to be good. It is not in any way good. It could have been good, the idea could have soared but in Niffenegger's hands it was destroyed by laundry lists of grocery bag contents, street directions, and punk bands until I even said, out loud, more than once, \"okay, I get it.\" He bought groceries, he knows how to get around in Chicago, Clare likes to clean her studio, he is not just a punk rock poser but the real deal, complete with his cherry red Docs,etc. Seriously, this stuff does not pass for good writing in any circles. The tedious minutae of life is boring and makes the author look like she is trying to pad her story for more bulk. The worst part of this book was that the whole thing was based on contrived plot devices. The whole time I was reading I was wondering why the author chose to have him time travel naked. To me it seemed like if it weren't for his constant pursuit of clothes there may be some real chance at something actually happening in the story. Then at the end of the book I realized that the whole naked thing was a tool to achieve the amputations at the end. Where was this woman's editor? How do things like this get published, this story was nowhere near polished and pared down enough to make it to publication. Also, the gory miscarriage scenes, yuck! There was no introspect into the character's hearts and minds. How does Henry feel about knowing when he is going to die? How does Clare deal with him being a time travel? We will never know because the book was too full of what they did and how they did it and nothing about how they felt. I don't care about that stuff. These characters were selfish, pretentious and self absorbed. And the credibility goes right out the window when they win the lottery. Come on! I honestly don't see why this book is so well loved! This book angered me. ...more I am conflicted about this book. Do not let my 4 stars fool you, they are an emotional rating. I'll start with the things I really liked about it: Loved all the foreshadowing. The knowing something was going to happen, and maybe even a little bit of what it was, but never knowing or understanding fully until both characters had experienced the moment. And then all the foreshadowing of the tragic end. Once I started putting the puzzle together I really couldn't put it down. And I had several moment I am conflicted about this book. Do not let my 4 stars fool you, they are an emotional rating. I'll start with the things I really liked about it: Loved all the foreshadowing. The knowing something was going to happen, and maybe even a little bit of what it was, but never knowing or understanding fully until both characters had experienced the moment. And then all the foreshadowing of the tragic end. Once I started putting the puzzle together I really couldn't put it down. And I had several moments where I couldn't control the tears even long before the tragedy happens, because the foreshadowing was that emotionally charged. I felt that the way the author set it up was ingenious. While you are reading along in a fairly chronological timeline, it is interspersed with moments of past and future as Henry travels through time. At first it felt very disjunct, but by the end I really loved the way it mirrored how Henry and Clare must feel as they lived their life in such a non-chronological manner. Especially Henry. The love story was indeed epic. I bawled like a baby at the end, it was so tragic to me. And sweet at the same time. The way that the author addressed themes of love, fate, destiny, personal choice and, of course, time was mind blowing at times (as all time travel issues are to me) but very cool to see how it all intertwined. I liked how she dealt with the whole time travel issue in that Henry could never actually change anything in the future. Everything already happened, whether in the past or the future, because for Henry, his future is his past and his past is his future. I told you it was a bit mind blowing. But yeah, the love story was riveting. Things I didn't like so much: The absolutely uneccesary detail of the mundane. I felt the author spent too much time describing grocery lists (literally!) of things and music and whatever when she could have been examining the thoughts and feelings of the characters. It took me 3 weeks to read this book, and not because it was long. I didn't have any problem ignoring it for days at a time because of the tedious reading at times. Nothing in the writing made me want to keep reading until the last half of the book, which I did read much more quickly. The language. F-word on nearly every page. Two sitings of the C-word. Totally unnecessary. The love scenes were often a bit graphic, and there were so many of them. Because of this, I started feeling that the love was based in sex more than anything and I would have like the author to explore some of the more deep feelings that did show up when Henry and Clare weren't in bed. Again, unnecessary really. Sometimes I got confused and experienced deja vu. Knowing it was because one of the characters had already mentioned a certain event and I would often have to go through the book and find the previous mention so I could have full understanding. Mostly though, it was a very cool book. And very emotional...at least for me. It really spoke to something in me about relationships and choices and destiny (not that I totally believe in destiny, but you know.)p ...more I have a serious love/hate relationship with this book. The good stuff: I really liked the jumps back and forth in time - surprisingly, the author was able to keep it all straight and I never really felt so terribly confused that I just wanted to give up. I loved the Henry character. I really loved him. He was flawed, he tried so hard to be a good man, etc etc. I just really loved this character. I liked the love story - I felt that the feelings between the two of them were real and so deep. So oft I have a serious love/hate relationship with this book. The good stuff: I really liked the jumps back and forth in time - surprisingly, the author was able to keep it all straight and I never really felt so terribly confused that I just wanted to give up. I loved the Henry character. I really loved him. He was flawed, he tried so hard to be a good man, etc etc. I just really loved this character. I liked the love story - I felt that the feelings between the two of them were real and so deep. So often a love story goes for huge dramatics to prove the deep love between two people and I liked that she didn't do that - you see their love for each other in what they do, how they talk, how they touch. I liked how the author kept the time traveling dark - the idea that he has no money and no clothes and has to scramble to stay alive and not arrested, etc etc. was great - very realistic for an unreal premise. I actually liked that they threw in the genetic testing and whatever of the time traveling disorder. I know many people felt that it was ridiculous, or felt like it was just shoved in there, but I really thought it brought a realism to the story. It helped take the story out of the sci-fi realm and put it more in reality. All of a sudden it became about a person with a disease and a family fighting to hold it together rather than a mysterious hole in the universe. I don't normally like pseudo science, but I actually thought it worked here. The bad stuff: I hated the name dropping, etc. I know some people liked it, but I just hated it. Yeah, I get it - he liked punk music. Wow. It just felt so contrived and fake to me. It felt more like the AUTHOR likes punk music and art and architecture and whatever else and was putting in those names as a shout out to her \"peeps\". Like, hey guys, if you know who this is you are part of a super secret cool club - yeah!! Not so much. I thought the Claire character was criminally flat. I agree with another reviewer that said the book was called \"The Time Traveler's WIFE\" and yet she is mostly a non-character. Now, I don't have a problem with the idea that she ended up devoting her life to Henry. That her commitment to him overshadowed other choices she could have made in life - well, I thought that was pretty realistic and understandable. If her husband got in a car crash and was a vegetable for the rest of his life, and to take care of him she ended up having to forgo many choices and let her life be dictated by this man and his medical needs, we wouldn't be arguing as much about it. But that doesn't mean she doesn't have her own dreams, thoughts, needs, desires, etc. which the author could have spent more time dealing with and developing. I really felt that Claire was mainly there as an object for Henry to love - not her own person. You never feel that Claire loved Henry and made this choice, this sacrifice - you feel that it was inevitable because the author said so. Claire's family was ridiculously flat. If Claire was not developed enough, her family wasn't developed at all. They are pretty much cardboard cut outs of stereotypes propped up at certain points in the story to help keep the plot going. And where the heck do they live again that EVERYONE has money. Not just money, but Money. I got sick and tired of the pregnancies and miscarriages. How many times before you realize you are harming yourself and your husband to the point that you will never recover? Given what happens to him and all - aren't their lives hard enough?? Why do that to yourselves over and over? I understand the strong desire for a child, but why not adopt? Why was that not an option? I can't remember at that point if they knew it was a genetic disorder or not - but if they did, would they really want that for their child - wouldn't that be even more of a reason to adopt? And what the heck were they going to tell that child?? Given how talky the characters were, I was pretty surprised that there were no heartfelt discussions of how exactly they were going to raise a child in that type of environment and what they would tell other people, etc, I really didn't like the abrupt cut from the grief on Henry dying to her being 85. That is a lot of time to cover and it felt cheap to not give even a token synopsis of how her and her daughter dealt with his death and her having the same disorder. I honestly can't decide whether her being able to see him one last time (it was him as a younger man jumping way ahead in time, so it was the past for Henry who was still dead) was touching or cruel. To deal with a devastating loss like that and so much time has gone by and to just have him pop back in like that - are you glad for one more precious moment or is it terribly cruel to give hope and snatch it away? And to do that to the daughter too?? I don't know..... My feelings about the ending depend on my mood. Somedays I feel that the ending was depressing but realistic. Not everything has a happy ending and I hate it when movies and TV show that ANY problem can be solved in 30 minutes! So having something real, even if difficult, felt right. Other days I feel like it was crap. Sure life isn't always great but it isn't always crap either. And I hate fatalism like that - I hate the idea that life is crap and there is no escaping it. I was also annoyed with Henry quitting - just giving up on life for so long after the feet thing. I get that he was depressed and all. I do. But he has lived his whole life not being able to depend on anything - not where he will wake up, not if he'll have money, not be able to see or be with the people he loves, having to be deposited in the middle of no where and scramble for clothes, food and money with no idea when and where he will return? This is a man who is incredibly resourceful and resilient. I just had a hard time believing that he would quit like that. Then again, I would imagine all those years of doing just that would take a toll on him and that was the final blow he just couldn't handle. But no, I still think it was out of character. And the truly terrible The two things that are just atrocious in this book - the references to her families black servants and Henry's friend and downstairs neighbor growing up, Kimmy. Wow. Holy Stereotypes batman!! Even given Claire's family having money and being upper crust and all - the whole description of them and the black servants was so odd and anachronistic. Wait - when did we all time travel to 1776?? Why is Mammy here? And with Henry's downstairs neighbor - she was slightly better written and I enjoyed her character in relation to Henry and all, but again, she was so stereotypical with the broken en-ga-rish and all. I don't know how she got away with those representations at all - how did not one editor or something say,\" uh, Audrey, could we talk about these ethnic characters? They might be a little too ethnic.\" Seriously. Absurd. So that is it- I loved parts of this book and hated parts of this book. There was a lot that was well done and some that was criminal. I don't know if I wish someone else had taken this idea and written it or if I wish the author had held onto this idea until she had more books under her belt and could do it justice. Either way, I just can't truly recommend this book but I can't tell people to avoid it either. AARGH! ...more Just because something is popular does not mean it's good. Mass \"taste\" is often incredibly bad. Such is the case with this book, only it's not incredibly bad, just not worth the hours it takes to read it. It seems like every fiction book I've read in the past couple of years is highly depressing, this one included. My life is full enough of it's own challenges and disappointments that I'd like to read to escape. Yes, if novels are full of heartache and struggle, they are realistic and more accur Just because something is popular does not mean it's good. Mass \"taste\" is often incredibly bad. Such is the case with this book, only it's not incredibly bad, just not worth the hours it takes to read it. It seems like every fiction book I've read in the past couple of years is highly depressing, this one included. My life is full enough of it's own challenges and disappointments that I'd like to read to escape. Yes, if novels are full of heartache and struggle, they are realistic and more accurately reflecting real life. Well, this book is clearly not realistic anyway, and the amount of trauma that happened to Henry went beyond what an average person encounters. I appreciate what Niffenegger was trying to do, and it certainly has it's romanticism, but it was not enjoyable to read. At the beginning, I had a hard time getting past the ridiculousness of the time traveling man that is the main premise of the book. I compared it to the annoying, short-lived tv show \"Journeyman\", the (also depressing) movie \"Premonition\", and the time-traveling bits in \"Lost\". To better swallow it, I thought of it as a children's book for adults. So I finally got past the goofiness of time-travelin' Henry. It was interesting how the author put together all the different past and futures. I thought she did a good job with how she chose to order them in the book. Where was the plot though? While this is not a traditional story in its presentation, if you put the different scenes in sequential order it should be. Instead of a story with much of a plot though, it was more like an anthropological ethnographic study of Clare and Henry. One third of the book was just them having sex and making coffee. It read to me as more of a descriptive chronicle than a tale with messages to relay. I also thought that Niffenegger never fully developed certain pieces like what happened to Henry's dad after Henry visited him and he was barely holding it together. Later in the book, he comes across as a typical, mostly functioning father, but we don't see how that change occurred. It also isn't clear why Henry likes Gomez. It must be nice for Henry to have a friend who knows his secret, and Gomez does some stuff to help out Henry and Clare, but why the bond? The first time they all have dinner together, Gomez is highly rude to Henry, but then the next time they meet during one of the time travels, they're all buddy-buddy. It's not like Henry's just using him for help; he actually likes him on some emotional level. One would think Gomez being in love with Clare would get in the way of that. To wrap this up, I also think the author tries too hard to make Clare and Henry cool: Clare with her dramatic artsiness and Henry with his incredible scope of book knowledge and languages, plus all the stuff about their music tastes. I don't think she does a very good job of showing how Henry goes from being the selfish, lost young jerk to the caring, mature husband. It's supposed to be Clare's influence, but the process is not really shown. There's another huge gap in info that bothers me, but it would be a spoiler. (Hard to believe you could have a spoiler without much plot, but there are a couple pieces that are major events in the book.) All in all, interesting concept tying time travel to romance, but with real life being trying enough, I need something more light-hearted. ...more If I had to define \"<+++>The Time Traveler's Wife</+++>\" by <---A>Audrey Niffenegger</---A> in two words they would be: poignant and excessive\u2014two words that also illustrate my mixed feelings about Niffenegger\u2019s first novel. \u201cThe Time Traveler\u2019s Wife\u201d is about many things. Obviously time travel is an important feature, but this novel is also about librarians, artists, punk rock, and alcoholics. It\u2019s also about love. Henry meets his wife, Clare, for the first time when he is 28 and Clare is 20. Clare met Henry for the fir If I had to define \"<+++>The Time Traveler's Wife</+++>\" by Audrey Niffenegger in two words they would be: poignant and excessive\u2014two words that also illustrate my mixed feelings about Niffenegger\u2019s first novel. \u201cThe Time Traveler\u2019s Wife\u201d is about many things. Obviously time travel is an important feature, but this novel is also about librarians, artists, punk rock, and alcoholics. It\u2019s also about love. Henry meets his wife, Clare, for the first time when he is 28 and Clare is 20. Clare met Henry for the first time when she was six and Henry was 36. Henry is, literally, a time traveler. Henry has a disease: a cellular disorder that leaves him unglued in time, traveling at random to various points in the past and future of his own life and, inexplicably, to Clare\u2019s childhood. Henry cannot hold onto any of his possessions when he time travels\u2014no clothes, no food, no money\u2014a fact that often has a disastrous effect on Henry\u2019s life. Throughout it all, Clare is at Henry\u2019s side faithfully waiting for him to return to her and their life together. Niffenegger alternates viewpoints, narrating the story in both Henry\u2019s and Clare\u2019s voice. Despite giving the characters equal narration time, Clare remains painfully one-dimensional. She is defined by her love for Henry, her artistic career and, unfortunately, little else. Thankfully, Henry is written much more fully. Working as a librarian at the Newberry in his present, Henry also has a complex life \u201cout of time.\" He is also well-versed in the culture of drugs and drinking. Really, Henry is a mess in every sense of the word. Despite all of his problems, though, Henry remains redeemable. Throughout the novel he clings to a certain charm, a quality that makes it plausible to believe that Clare really did love him long before Henry first met her. The novel jumps from past to present and back again as Niffenegger aptly looks at how Henry\u2019s past intersects with his present and his future, and his evolving relationship with Clare. These examinations are a particular strength of the novel. Niffenegger manages to discuss events multiple times without being redundant. At the same time she creates a complex storyline without making it impossible to follow. Unfortunately, she does also falter. Most of the novel\u2019s shortcomings stem from some kind of excess. First and foremost, it\u2019s too long. (The hardcover edition runs 600 pages.) Particularly in the second half of the novel, it feels like Niffenegger takes on too much. There are too many characters to remember, too many events only tangentially relevant to the core plot. All things considered, the novel could easily have been at least a hundred pages shorter. For this reason, the premise of the plot has some fundamental flaws\u2014points that make no sense in relation to the rest of the narrative. On the whole, these blips are annoying but not damning (especially given the fact that the novel is marketed as general fiction as opposed to science fiction). \u201cThe Time Traveler\u2019s Wife\u201d also veers dangerously close to melodrama, raining biblically disastrous situations on both Henry and Clare. Given the ending of the novel, one would think that merely being a time traveler would be enough bad luck to last both of their lifetimes. Aside from being plain old mean, this focus on events makes it difficult to develop the characters. Many interesting people walk in and out of Henry\u2019s life, but few of them are adequately utilized in the book. The scope of the narrative is vast and strongly cinematic, which leads me to two conclusions: One is that this story might have been better had someone else written it. The other is that the upcoming film adaptation will be better than the novel. Given the fascinating story and characters here, hopefully that will be the case. ...more For whatever reason, when I stared reading The Time Taveler\u2019s Wife, I was in possession of two copies. I opted to leave a copy at work and the other at home and I read at least a few pages everyday. This meant that each time I picked up the book I was slightly lost, and wondering were I was, while I searched to find my place within the pages. One copy was older and more worn than the other, with writing in the margins and creased corners. The other book was brand new and living in the present. E For whatever reason, when I stared reading The Time Taveler\u2019s Wife, I was in possession of two copies. I opted to leave a copy at work and the other at home and I read at least a few pages everyday. This meant that each time I picked up the book I was slightly lost, and wondering were I was, while I searched to find my place within the pages. One copy was older and more worn than the other, with writing in the margins and creased corners. The other book was brand new and living in the present. Even with the time lost searching for my place, this book turned into a quick read. The premise behind it was a great idea and, while the author demanded a lot of faith from the reader, it was fun to get into the story. Even with all the questions surrounding the strange affliction attributed to the main character, I cared for the characters and worried about their destiny. ...more I adore this book. I love it with all my heart. The first few pages were a delight, a surprise, and from then on it was a sweet love affair. I wanted both to have read the book all at once and also to have it all yet unread so I could savor it. I simply didn't want it to end. The story is about two people, the time traveler and his wife. On the surface, they are like any two people who love each other in modern times, except for the fact that he travels through time. You'd think that fact would m I adore this book. I love it with all my heart. The first few pages were a delight, a surprise, and from then on it was a sweet love affair. I wanted both to have read the book all at once and also to have it all yet unread so I could savor it. I simply didn't want it to end. The story is about two people, the time traveler and his wife. On the surface, they are like any two people who love each other in modern times, except for the fact that he travels through time. You'd think that fact would make this science fiction, but this is more a romance -- actually, more a great love story than anything. A love that transcends time. While the science fiction part of it IS interesting, it really is all about the couple, Henry and Clare. Henry's ability to time travel almost becomes a metaphor. For what? Whatever it is a reader wishes to imagine. But there'd be no story without it, as it's very intricately woven into the romance. It's unlikely they ever would have met and come together without it. Henry and Clare both tell the story in their first person points of view, in the present tense, to indicate the here and now, though the scenes might be all at once the past, the present, and the future. They take turns, not only in telling the story, but in knowing what's to come. So the story unfolds like a flower, with each scene a petal of rosy revelation, where you see both sides -- first the outside, then the inside -- as it blooms and shows yet another petal within, ready to unfurl. The plotting is amazing. Things that happened in one's past, halfway mentioned, become a foreshadowing of what's to come for another, and in the end, things just fall into place; bad or good, you know that whatever just happened was supposed to happen. You can't really worry about the paradoxes, though. You just have to let go of the feeling that something might never have happened were it not for one thing or another. However tangled up the cause and effect become, the whole thing seemed fated and comes full circle. I suspect that this book inspired the TV series Journeyman, which I also love. However, they have made it light years easier for the time traveler in Journeyman. When Henry time travels, he brings nothing with him. He can't. Anything that isn't a part of his body is left behind, so he arrives naked and must steal clothes and shoes. When the man in Journeyman travels, he takes with him whatever he is wearing or holding, so he has his clothes and his cash. When Henry time travels, he is unable to change anything that, for him, has already happened. When the Journeyman time travels, it is expressly so he can go back and change the past, and when he returns to his present, things are not quite what they were when he left. And even though the science fiction part of this book is actually fairly understated, Henry's version of time travel seems much more real to me, more plausible. His life with Clare makes it even more so because we see how it affects the two of them and their relationship with each other and with other people. Only the media seems left out of it, and I think that if Henry's ability was real, it would be very much in the media in one form or another. I really wish I could articulate everything that I love about this book, but I think the best way to share what I'm feeling for the book right now is to recommend it to everyone I know. Hints of Lolita again, but sweeter and more innocent. Finished reading March 30, 2008. ...more Rating this was really hard, because I really liked it (really, really liked it) but I have such qualms with the ending, which could very possibly be a testament to Niffenegger's writing, I'm not sure. Anyway. There were several things I wanted to talk about while I was reading it, more or less having to do with the notion of time-travel in the book. Obviously, there's always the immediate connection between <---C>Henry DeTamble</---C> and Billy Pilgrim, both of which are unstuck in time, Henry because of a b Rating this was really hard, because I really liked it (really, really liked it) but I have such qualms with the ending, which could very possibly be a testament to Niffenegger's writing, I'm not sure. Anyway. There were several things I wanted to talk about while I was reading it, more or less having to do with the notion of time-travel in the book. Obviously, there's always the immediate connection between Henry DeTamble and Billy Pilgrim, both of which are unstuck in time, Henry because of a bizarre disorder and Billy because of an existential break-down possibly hightened by Post Traumatic Shock Syndrome (I believe that's what it's \"technically\" called, but don't quote me) (this is also a literary theory I find to be too easy of an excuse). But also I found parallels between TTW and Octavia Butler's \"Kindred,\" the story of a black woman pulled back through time by one of her ancestors, a white slaveholder, to the period before the Civil War. The interesting thing I found about both of these are the link between Dana and Rufus (in \"Kindred\") that defies time and space, and an almost identical link between Henry and young Clare as an agenda to look at the concept of \"soul mates.\" This then creates an ontological question concerning the nature of free-will and destiny, as Niffenegger herself states numerous times that Henry believes in free-will to a point, in that he's free to do whatever or so he believes, but because he is so immeshed in time what happens between him and Clare is more destiny: they are free to do what they will, but they'll always end up where they are meant to be type thing. Another aspect that struck me was the idea of time being a biological construct, which was like \"holy shit rock on!\" Because time itself is little more than our perception of change and cause-and-effect, and the physical concept of space-time is nonlinear, that all time happens right now and it will always happen at any given moment, not so much circular as it is ever-present. But the notion that time itself can be a flux in our biological make-up was STUNNING. If I were a little more awake, maybe I could expound a little more about why that interested me so much. (But to that effect, it did bother me a little that Niffenegger told her story more or less linearally, despite the constant jumping back and forth that Henry undergoes. I almost wish the whole thing was like that, with very little linear telling [which of course would be problematic with Clare's perception of events; hmmm . . .:]). IF YOU HAVEN'T READ THE BOOK AND YOU PLAN ON READING IT, PLEASE STOP READING THIS REVIEW HERE! I DON'T WANT TO RUIN THE ENDING FOR YOU! This was one of the saddest books I've ever read, aside from \"Where the Red Fern Grows,\" but what I didn't like was that there was no real time to devote to being sad and crying over Henry's fate/destiny/end because the story kept going, no moment to allow the reader a bit of catharsis. And this probably wouldn't have been so bad if Henry hadn't lost his feet and could do nothing else but wait for his final moment. I felt that Henry was such a dynamic character and that he would have been one of those types of people who burn out instead of fade away, if he were a real person, but in the narrative he's not given that chance. When he flashes back to that morning at the Meadow I wanted him to be running when he's shot, not simply appearing, getting shot, and returning to the New Year's party. And the story kept going after! Which, granted, it is actually more of Clare's story (she is, of course, the time-traveler's wife and gets the first and final words of the story), and this does illuminate Henry's ever-present being in time and space. And then maybe he's not so much fading away as he is always existing. I don't know. I have mixed feelings about it. ...more i feel there is a special circle of hell reserved for authors who make a fortune by blatantly ripping off better--but less mainstream--authors from the past and passing the ideas off as their own. I therefore will not review this book but instead re-direct the curious to a 1976 novel called Kindred by Octavia Butler, ostensibly a sci-fi novel but in fact a lean, precise and totally imaginative book for any alert reader. Avoid bloat, trashiness, sexism, predictability and slowness: don't read thi i feel there is a special circle of hell reserved for authors who make a fortune by blatantly ripping off better--but less mainstream--authors from the past and passing the ideas off as their own. I therefore will not review this book but instead re-direct the curious to a 1976 novel called Kindred by Octavia Butler, ostensibly a sci-fi novel but in fact a lean, precise and totally imaginative book for any alert reader. Avoid bloat, trashiness, sexism, predictability and slowness: don't read this one. Read Kindred! It is gorgeous, thoughtful, sexy, and oh yes--feminist and anti-racist. Yeah! ...more I almost feel that the author wrote this book in two halves. The first half she wrote while at the pique of her ability and enthusiasm. The second half she wrote while on some very impressive anti-depressants. The first half of this book is sweet, wistful, beautiful and touching. The second half of this book is heart breaking, depressing and sloppily written. I finished this book wondering what the hell I'd actually gotten out of it. My not-so-startling conclusion was: nothing. When I read a book, I almost feel that the author wrote this book in two halves. The first half she wrote while at the pique of her ability and enthusiasm. The second half she wrote while on some very impressive anti-depressants. The first half of this book is sweet, wistful, beautiful and touching. The second half of this book is heart breaking, depressing and sloppily written. I finished this book wondering what the hell I'd actually gotten out of it. My not-so-startling conclusion was: nothing. When I read a book, I like to come away with something - even if it's merely a story worth remembering to cherish in my mind, or a lesson well learned, or an experience I'll probably never have but I now felt as though I'd had. This book offers none of that and I'm wondering why Ms. Niffenegger actually wrote it to begin with? What was she trying to say with this story? Marriage sucks? Religion is for the young and naive? True love lasts until the first heart breaking obstacle? When you figure it out, please tell me. ...more There\u2019s a reason I hate Oprah\u2019s Book Club, and the reason is that I think she does a disservice to the millions of American women who adore her by recommending terrible books. Oprah\u2019s problem is that rather than directing her legions of fans to classic books (or ones destined to become classics) with complex plots and fine writing, she directs them instead to crap like The Notebook. The Notebook and The Time Traveler\u2019s Wife belong to the same genre \u2013 you\u2019ve heard the term \u201cchick flick\u201d? These tw There\u2019s a reason I hate Oprah\u2019s Book Club, and the reason is that I think she does a disservice to the millions of American women who adore her by recommending terrible books. Oprah\u2019s problem is that rather than directing her legions of fans to classic books (or ones destined to become classics) with complex plots and fine writing, she directs them instead to crap like The Notebook. The Notebook and The Time Traveler\u2019s Wife belong to the same genre \u2013 you\u2019ve heard the term \u201cchick flick\u201d? These two books are chick books, books whose romantic plots and themes are written to appeal to women, a device in books and film that do a disservice to the women\u2019s rights movement. Niffenegger\u2019s book revolves around a man who has a genetic disorder that randomly makes him travel backwards and forwards in time. He pops into and out of the life of a woman who ends up being his wife. The book revolves around the theme that love transcends time, and describes how the couple deals with the man\u2019s time-traveling problem. This book gets some points for an original concept, but unfortunately, it is atrociously written. First, it\u2019s way too long, almost 550 pages. Much of the length of the book is due to the author\u2019s inclusion of every minute detail she can think of, as if an overabundance of detail makes the scene somehow more realistic. Secondly, there are tons of rants in the book, which is really just the author using her characters to voice her own tastes (for example, a whole scene devoted to punk music and the punk scene as if the author were reliving her youth, which adds nothing to the characterizations). Thirdly, the book is filled with tiresome clich\u00e9 love imageries. For example, the time traveler wishing to himself that he were home and finding himself in bed with his wife and stating something inane like \u201cI\u2019m with Clare, so I am home. I am home.\u201d So awful, the author should be jailed. The only reason I don\u2019t have this book ranked lower is that the end of the book deals with issues of death and separation and loss that genuinely touched me, but that\u2019s more me being sentimental than the book\u2019s ability to convey strong emotion. Read it if you like chick flicks. ...more I am not a romance reader by nature. That's not to say that I don't enjoy them from time to time, but I just don't usually gravitate toward romance. And to be completely honest, I had absolutely zero intention of reading this book, ever. But then it was chosen as my October Bookclub book, so my intentions just became irrelevant. So, now that I've read it... Umm... Well. I think that this book did have an interesting premise, and in another author's hands, could have been fantastic. But most of t I am not a romance reader by nature. That's not to say that I don't enjoy them from time to time, but I just don't usually gravitate toward romance. And to be completely honest, I had absolutely zero intention of reading this book, ever. But then it was chosen as my October Bookclub book, so my intentions just became irrelevant. So, now that I've read it... Umm... Well. I think that this book did have an interesting premise, and in another author's hands, could have been fantastic. But most of the time while reading this, I just kept feeling, well, manipulated and skeptical. All I kept thinking as I read this was how implausible it all was. And I'm not just talking about the time-travel. Just to forewarn you, this long (really long) Ranty McRanter Review may contain spoilery stuff. This book's description says \"[...]this is the remarkable story of Henry DeTamble, a dashing, adventuresome librarian who travels involuntarily through time, and Clare Abshire, an artist whose life takes a natural sequential course. Henry and Clare's passionate love affair endures across a sea of time and captures the two lovers in an impossibly romantic trap[...]\" . Uh huh. \"Impossibly romantic trap\"? Well. A trap of some kind, anyway. My biggest issue here is that Clare's life has been entirely determined by Henry, with a little help from his unknown ally, the Catholic Church. Henry's told her what her life is and will be: She will be his wife. And because of her Catholic upbringing, the concept of predestination is not at all foreign to her (remember, God has a plan for us all), and so she accepts it as a matter of course. She sees him as her closest friend, the person who knows the most about her in the world, the person who loves her the most in the world, and as a young girl who is just starting to form ideas about romantic love, I'd imagine that to her he's like a God. An all-knowing (he knows her future) but mysterious (because he won't tell her about it, or anything about himself), unconditionally loving (I don't think I need to explain this one), metaphysical or supernatural being (time traveler, remember?), and who is just waiting for her to accept him (well, actually, just to get old enough to do so). I don't think it's much of a stretch, honestly. So, leaving aside the paradox of their relationship technically being impossible (they only meet in the present because of Henry telling her where they will while visiting Clare in the past), it strikes me as incredibly unfair to Clare that from 6 years old, when she meets a naked man claiming to be a time traveler in the meadow near her house, her life becomes tethered to Henry. Now, I can see a 6 year old accepting a story of a time traveler. A 6 year old's imagination is a wild thing, and children can accept and cope with concepts that would drive adults to drink. But as Clare gets older, and learns more about her life with Henry - that they are married, specifically - it becomes less and less plausible to me that someone would be able to accept that. How does she know that he's not lying to her, or manipulating her into the life he claims she will live with him? She doesn't know anything at all about him other than the fact that he shows up naked in her yard repeatedly and claims to be her husband in the future. To me, the time travel itself isn't enough evidence. He could be a time traveler AND a liar. It just seems to me like a waste. A waste of a life that Clare could have had that would have been fulfilling and satisfying without Henry in it. Considering the fleeting nature of their relationship, and the massive extent of time she spent waiting for him, I just don't think it was worth it, and to me, Henry is incredibly selfish for pursuing that life for her. The waiting is just endless... And here's where it gets confusing, because Henry believes that the past can't be changed to affect the future, right? So, 42 year old Henry meeting 6 year old Clare in the past leads to 28 year old Henry meeting 20 year old Clare in the present. It's destined because 42 year old Henry's past contains that meeting at 28. Right? But, Henry's theory is kind of crap because the whole thing is a paradox. He went to a past from a future that couldn't have existed UNLESS he changed the past in order to affect the future. And this is another reason why this book felt manipulate-y. I feel like we're not supposed to examine it in this way, and just read it for the love story and the heartbreaking sadness that this time-travel thing causes in the time traveler's wife's life. We're supposed to see this as an epic romance. We're supposed to see the relationship as the central focus, we're supposed to accept this at face value (as everyone accepts Henry's time travel and 20 years worth of him gallivanting around naked in the Newberry Library without losing his job, which is completely plausible, of course) and not give it too much thought, because if we look too closely, we can see there's not much there. Henry is described as something of a player by everyone but Clare. A cheater, a heartbreaker, emotionally unavailable... yet we never see this. Not one time. Ingrid (who we don't see with Henry in a Clareless present) is the bitter, devastated ex, and whatshername Celia? is the one trying to catch Ingrid on the rebound, so of course she's going to play up the Henry-the-Dog thing. But I don't buy it. Pics or it didn't happen, as they say. If you're going to claim someone's a player, you need to back it up - in real life and in fictional time travel stories. Show him time travel back and interrupt his younger self mid-affair. Then I'd believe it. Whoops! Instead, all we see is Henry the Totally Devoted To Clare. He loves her more than love ever loved love and therefore they are DESTINED, and so it shall be. Henry knows what's going to happen, and therefore he doesn't even try. He just sits back and let's the future come to him. Kendrick's going to be his doctor because he is. It happens because it has already happened. So no need to get all rowdy and make an effort or anything. *Yawn* In fact that's another thing. There's absolutely ZERO conflict in this book. None. Henry gets arrested for indecent exposure on a freeway in 1963? Conveniently he disappears before he's booked. Want something? Take it. Something's weird? Accepted. Family troubles? Just introduce your new wife, then all tension is gone. If there's a snag, it's always a momentary one, and it always works out in the end. UGH. Jeez! Anyway! Where was I? Oh yes, characters. Clare. She is... Well. This is going to be unpopular, but Clare is just an older, slightly (very slightly) less annoying version of Bella Swan. She has no life other than Henry. Her friends become his friends (because it's not like he has any of his own. Oh, wait, his old Korean babysitter counts, I guess). Her life is completely engrossed by his and there's no part of it that is Henryless. She's completely devoted to this guy who had to ship in an extra to appear at his own wedding because he's too unreliable to actually be there in present time. Just the kind of life every girl dreams of on their big day! :D Oops, close, but not quite! Supposedly Clare's an artist or something...? Yeah. Something like that. I guess. I live with an artist. And the art TAKES OVER EVERYTHING. There's art and art supplies and potential art supplies and scribbles and drawings and markers and paint and art... just... EVERYWHERE. It's not a hobby, it's a part of the Boy's LIFE. This creative need. So when Clare is described as making stuff like 3 times in the book, complete with step by step directions and an accompanying Create-It-Yourself! shopping list for the reader... it rings false with me. I don't see her as being an artist. I see her as being a toy that Henry picks up and plays with when he's around, and who sits on the shelf and waits for him to come back and play with her again when he's not around. And when it's convenient (aka: will reinforce the romance, like when she sketches Henry), Niffenegger sticks her in a studio with some art supplies and calls her an artist. That's not character development, that's just lazy. Oh but wait, you say, what about the bird sculptures? Oh right, those, how could I forget, because they were so massively important to the story that they were mentioned like one time. Henry's job is mentioned a bazillion times, and Clare's work mentions I could count on one hand. Lazy. For real. The book is called The Time Traveler's WIFE, why is there not more about Clare? Why is there not more TO Clare? And, speaking of shopping lists, seriously, I don't need an entire recipe recitation for each and every meal they eat. And the kinds of meals they eat are ridiculous. I don't believe that a 20 year old and her 2 punk-rock rebel anarchist roommates are drinking merlot and eating wild mushroom risotto. I can't even roll my eyes enough at that shit. But that's not even the best. I mean, Niffenegger's descriptions are insanely long anyway (the quality of the light glinting off of this or that, dew on the thinger I don't care about at all, the texture of the whatchamajig, blah blah blah) but at one point Henry is unpacking groceries and EVERY. SINGLE. ITEM. is listed before getting to the point of the list: a shocker item. THERE WERE 32 ITEMS. THIRTY-EFFING-TWO!! I counted. Unlike Clare, I am not fascinated by celery stalks and cans of creamed corn. So I gave approximately 0% of one shit about 31 of the items that were listed before the SHOCKER ITEM. Gah. Thirty-two. Seriously. Another thing that really bugged me were the miscarriages. There were times that they were written in such a way that I wasn't sure if it was a nightmare of Clare's or reality - I'm still not sure, but I think it was supposed to be reality. I admit to skimming quite a bit, so maybe I missed something. Blood-soaked sheets and bed, and a little tiny fetus breathing its last in her hand? What? Maybe Niffenegger isn't familiar with the stages of fetal development, but lungs are pretty much the last things to develop, so that's just... weird. But then finally, FINALLY Clare gets preggers, with her husband who is time travelling from the past. She cheated on her hubby with her hubby while in bed with her hubby, who is sleeping. But hey, that's OK. They are used to being in bed with each other, eh, 15 year old Henry and 15 year & 6 months old Henry? *elbow nudge* Anyway... Toward the end of the book there are quite a few events that feel manipulative in order to cause a certain event. Henry's feet are important to him. This is drilled into the reader time and again. He runs because he needs to run when he time travels and lands somewhere buck-naked, raising all kinds of suspicions. So of course, something happens to his feet. Not just one, which would have had the same effect, likely, but BOTH. For the shock value. And to me, it was just not necessary at all. Because THE EVENT would probably have happened anyway - it happened in an eyeblink. And the repercussions from that event are... well. We're supposed to be crushed. I think this book is doing it wrong. I won't lie and say that I wasn't affected, though... but it wasn't because of the characters themselves. It was because I imagine myself in the position of losing someone I love, and know how heartbroken I'd have been. But then I get angry, because in the goodbye letter he leaves for her, the one in which he tells her to live her life and be happy, he mentions - just as an aside, you know!- that he visits her in the far flung future. And that leaves her waiting for him again... for 50+ years. How horribly selfish do you have to be to do that to someone? Is that a comfort? I don't think so. I think it's exactly the opposite. It's torture to make someone wait in uncertainty for over half their life for one brief momentary visit. Such a waste, and the more I think about this book, the more I find to dislike in it. It's not romantic, it's depraved. Yeah... so. I could go on, like about how the different perspectives were written and how even with the abrupt shift in POV I could never tell who was narrating unless I either checked or got lucky and one was talking directly to the other, because there was no difference in character voice at all, but the longer I do, the more annoyed I get, and I have better books I could be reading. ...more Before Audry Niffenegger wrote The Time Traveler's Wife, she was a art teacher at a Chicago university. Thankfully, Niffenegger believes that art should imitate life, so we get a rip-roaring tour of her life passions: punk music, the Chicago art scene, the Newbery Library, and Chicago itself. These are the core elements that add ambiance to the love story of Henry Detamble - librarian and reluctant time traveler - and his wife, artist Claire Ashbury. Henry has crono-displacement disorder and in Before Audry Niffenegger wrote The Time Traveler's Wife, she was a art teacher at a Chicago university. Thankfully, Niffenegger believes that art should imitate life, so we get a rip-roaring tour of her life passions: punk music, the Chicago art scene, the Newbery Library, and Chicago itself. These are the core elements that add ambiance to the love story of Henry Detamble - librarian and reluctant time traveler - and his wife, artist Claire Ashbury. Henry has crono-displacement disorder and in times of stress, he \"time jumps\" to other periods of his life, leaving Claire alone in sequential time. I stayed up until almost four AM, engrossed in Time Traveler's Wife. I cheated by reading the last page first when I was halfway through it and put it aside for six months. TTW is the story of the (gorgeous) Henry DeTamble, sexy librarian and accidental time traveler, and his circular relationship with Claire, who is often left behind when Henry accidentally goes hurtling through time, usually against his will. The most unique part about it - and the most intelligent - is Niffenegger could have done the cliche plot - time machine, other centuries, etc - but chose not to, instead keeping the time travel in the modern day. No Jack Finney plots for her characters. Henry's unique path almost entirely focuses around dramatic incidents in his life - his mother's death,his father's depression, or his meeting Clare. The latter is the most unique part about this story - Henry first meets Clare when she is 6 and he is in his 20s, thanks to the time traveling. Ironically, when he accidentally visits her as a child, he is leaving the adult Claire, bereft and confused, in the \"present.\" The book is told through monologues which I usually find pretty annoying but this was extraordinary. The kick? In Niffennegger's world, time travel is a disease, an uncontrollable ailment which holds the victim in it's grip, manifesting only under extreme mental stress. As a result, Henry fights to stay \"present\" at his own wedding, only to loose and have an older \"Henry\" (age 43) pop into the ceremony to say the vows. What would be a groom's normal nerves set off the chrono-displacement gene (CDG). Also, our Henry time travels in the buff, which makes it pretty important to do things like pick locks, steal clothes, etc. You know - all the stuff they should teach in Boy Scouts. And? The sheer real world *intelligence* of Henry and Clare - the references to AS Byatt, Violent Femmes, Ulysses, french poetry, J.B. Priestly, Rilke, Dickinson, etc. Thanks to Henry's librarian status, we get tons of delicious references to gorgeous poems, lit figures, etc. It's a rarity in fiction to have a librarian character who is a man, a time traveler, reader and lover, while still leaping off the page as the world's first well-read, punk librarian. Henry and Clare never dip to anything less than human, brilliant, vital, and remarkably alive. Guess who cried like moron through the past 42 pages? Moi. I haven't cried at a book since the end of Fried Green Tomatoes or maybe Harry 3. I made it through Jane Eyre, Tree Grows in Brooklyn, The Hours, Jude the Obscure, Crimson Petal and White, and tons of other gut-wrenching books without a tear. I'm a little embarrassed by how much I adored this novel. Whew. ..And The Beatles, Fleetwood Mac, and the Violent Femmes make appearances. Bless Niffennegger's visionary, music-adoring little self. Apparently Gus Van Sant is directing the movie. Personally, I think Michel Gondry (Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind) would have been the perfect director. Rachel McAdams (The Notebook, Wedding Crashers) will be Claire, while Eric Bana (The Hulk) will be Henry. Dippy with love for this book. I've never been a romance girl, or sci-fi/fantasy but this one just rolled it all in to one yummy package. ...more I loved this book. It's not perfect, but it made me feel and think and want. It's one of those stories that pulls you into the characters' lives and leaves you wanting more, mulling over the scenes and premise for days after you've reluctantly turned the last page. Rarely is such an original idea portrayed with such vivid language so you believe the time travel possibility and the characters are almost people you know. It's about a guy who involuntarily travels time. He can never predict where o I loved this book. It's not perfect, but it made me feel and think and want. It's one of those stories that pulls you into the characters' lives and leaves you wanting more, mulling over the scenes and premise for days after you've reluctantly turned the last page. Rarely is such an original idea portrayed with such vivid language so you believe the time travel possibility and the characters are almost people you know. It's about a guy who involuntarily travels time. He can never predict where or when he will jump the time/space continuum, but when he does, he is drawn toward significant events and people in his life. The science fiction is a medium for a love story, not a cheesy or unrealistic (besides time travel which she makes believable) one, but a deep enduring love in for the long haul of life and hardship, told from both his and her perspective, and how time travel affects their lives and relationship. It starts when Henry meets Claire for the first time and she is ecstatic to finally have found the love of her life in the present. Henry must get to know this stranger introduced to him as his future wife and Claire has to nurture him into the man she loves. As you relive scenes from Claire's past and Henry's future you see how they fall in love, at different times with someone already madly in love with them, and conquer the challenge of his disorder. Because their relationship is non-chronological, you discover events out of order--as do they--making the story interesting and leaving you with the same sense of longing the characters feel. I thought the odd age difference, Henry playing father figure to the girl who will be his wife, was handled well instead of pedophileish, as was the delve into both Henry's and Claire's minds and emotions (although I wish their voices differed more) to get a better grasp of how this condition would affect normal life. I really cared about these characters. Henry trying to protect Claire and Claire left wanting. In one scene she is racing to meet him after a prolonged absence and he fades before she can reach him. I felt for her, what she had to sacrifice to revolve and dedicate her life to him. Some of the minor characters strange and distracting, but overall the story is powerful and vivid. One is left to question the origin of fate and ethics. Does the past affect the future or the future the past? Or is it all predestined? Claire knows what dates Henry will visit because he gives her the dates he memorized from her diary and told her to write down so he could later memorize them. Where did the knowledge originate? How would you explain and hide abnormalities? What would you consider ethical in playing with time? I didn't have a problem with the thievery (he transfers nude) but I did with using money knowledge from the future. There is a lot left to contemplate. Be forewarned, there's a lot of loving in the story, and not just the act, but the dirty reference to the deed as well. I think Niffenegger must have wanted to steer clear of being too cheesy so she regrettably went too far the other direction. Many of the sex scenes are graphically portrayed, but there is one scene, only hinted at, the idea of which almost made me close the book. Gratefully the concept didn't linger, but unfortunately the language did. Gratuitous and unnecessary for the story, oh but what a story. Update: loved the book-to-movie screen adaption. They really captured the longing, the sense of being guided (trapped even) by fate. Well played too. ...more Very few books have ever made me cry. Off the top of my head, only two really stand out: Charlotte's Web and Thunderwith . I am now adding The Time Traveler's Wife to the list, and to the list of books I can't get out of my head for days after. This is a highly ambitious debut novel. That doesn't mean it doesn't work. I had my doubts, I truly did. And I can never read a book without also noticing typos, editing errors etc., but although they're distracting they can't ruin a good book. The time tr Very few books have ever made me cry. Off the top of my head, only two really stand out: Charlotte's Web and Thunderwith . I am now adding The Time Traveler's Wife to the list, and to the list of books I can't get out of my head for days after. This is a highly ambitious debut novel. That doesn't mean it doesn't work. I had my doubts, I truly did. And I can never read a book without also noticing typos, editing errors etc., but although they're distracting they can't ruin a good book. The time traveler is Henry DeTamble, only child of two musicians, whose mum died in a car crash when he was 5 (he was saved only because, due to stress, he time travelled outside the car - which reminded me a lot of the tv show Charmed (one of my secret, now not-so-secret, indulgences), in which Paige \"orbed\" out of the car crash which kills both her parents - could Niffenegger be a fan also?!?). His time traveling is genetic, like an imperfection or flaw in his genetic code. He can't control it, and it causes more than a few problems in his life. When he travels, he does so suddenly, and turns up in the past or the future, completely naked, with no idea of where or when he is. But he's not completely vulnerable - he taught himself (in one of those mind-bending scenes that only make you ask, Yes, but how did he teach himself ? ) how to pick locks, pick pockets, steal, fight, run, anything necessary to survive until, equally suddenly, he pops back into the present, be it a few minutes or several days since he disappeared. This creates not just problems in his social and love life, but also in his job - he's a librarian and his colleagues think he has some kind of kinky thing for running around naked in the stacks. When he's 28, he meets Clare Abshire for the first time. Only, she's known him since she was six. How? He starts time travelling to her past after he's met her in \"real time\". It's a disorientating experience for him, to be confronted with this beautiful, red-haired, 20 year old art student who knows a great deal about him - if not his life, certainly his personality - and, though he doesn't know it yet, even lost her virginity to. It's a bit disorientating for us, too, but it's like riding a bike: after a while, you get the hang of it. This is a love story, and a tragic one at that. Because I like to be optimistic, I began reading this in the expectation of a happy ending. I didn't get it, but that's not really what made me cry. I cried because I had invested so much of my own emotions in the characters, I had come to care for them, to feel for them and hope for them, that the ending shattered me. I cried for Henry, I cried for Clare, I cried for their passion so early ended and the loneliness with which Clare must now live with, despite the child they managed, after 6 miscarriages, to have. >Set in Chicago over several decades, up to 2008, Niffenegger is obviously in love with her city. Despite that, I didn't get a strong feeling of Chicago, nor a great mental image of it. Perhaps because Henry is all over the place, and Clare's parents live in a different state, or perhaps because the author fails to really get across the true elements of the city, which I have never been to. I've read several books lately that kept going long after they should have ended. The Lovely Bones , for one example. Not so here. It's a long book, at 518 pages that just flew by, but in those pages you really get to know Clare and Henry and the characters, friends and family and doctors all, around them. The time travel element is what makes this an ambitious book. Keeping track of their lives, of the insights and hints and clues divulged in one sequence, with when it happens in \"real time\". At first, I had a sharp eye, looking for slip-ups. By the end, I had to admit I couldn't find any. Although some things are never returned to, like Henry divulging his secret to Gomez, a lawyer in love with Clare but married to her best friend, because he will help him out a lot in the future (the Henry doing the divulging is from the future, and so knew Gomez a lot better than the 28-year-old Henry Gomez had met just the night before) - but this is never returned to, there is no more clue as to what kind of legal trouble Henry gets into, no trials, no arrests (Henry is often arrested for things like indecent exposure, but always \"disappears\" before they can fingerprint him and find out who he is). Perhaps it did get a bit melodrammatic toward the end. My perception is clouded, now. I don't want to give too much away, so suffice it to say that certain events leading up to the end were so raw and tragic, I lost myself to the book completely, and went with the flow, no longer trying to find slip-ups or inconsistencies or judging the writing style. Speaking of which (sorry about this \"review\", it's all over the place), it's written in present tense, which works well since the time frame is, like this review, all over the place. One line, or description rather, that I particularly loved, was when Henry from the future and Alba, his daughter, from the future, meet and spend time together in 1979 at the beach. \"Tell me a story,\" says Alba, leaning against me like cold cooked pasta. (p.512) \"like cold cooked pasta\" - ooh I can feel it! That clammy feeling, a perfect description for after you've been swimming. In general, though, Niffenegger's style is not \"high brow\" literary. I found it easy to read, with a good flow, excellent pace and those philosophical, thoughtful insights and asides you get from a layered writer. She made an effort to get the \"voices\" right for young Clare and young Henry, though Clare's was more convincing than 5-year-old Henry's. Really, here, I'm just trying to get all my thoughts down. If they appear a mess, and out of order etc., then that means my brain will be less so, and that works for me. Essentially, having been lucky enough to find \"the love of my life\", the idea of losing him rips my guts apart. And since I actually want to invest in fictional characters, whether they be in books or in movies etc., I felt their pain, as well as their love and happiness and all the feelings in between. There's a strong story here, told by characters who may not be out of the ordinary in any other way, but who feel and, in feeling, live. ...more A big no thank you to The Time Traveler's Wife . To the legions of fans of this book, I'd like to know what you enjoyed about it. What did I miss? I see that it's won a pile of awards- I feel like I completely missed something and I would like to understand your point of view. I thought I was in for a sweet romance but all I got was a time traveler who cheated at the lottery, beat people up for clothes, and engaged in sexual hijinks with time traveling versions of himself. I was completely creeped A big no thank you to The Time Traveler's Wife . To the legions of fans of this book, I'd like to know what you enjoyed about it. What did I miss? I see that it's won a pile of awards- I feel like I completely missed something and I would like to understand your point of view. I thought I was in for a sweet romance but all I got was a time traveler who cheated at the lottery, beat people up for clothes, and engaged in sexual hijinks with time traveling versions of himself. I was completely creeped out by the fact that Henry is Claire's best friend from the time that she was 6. She was groomed from that young age to be his wife, no matter that it wasn't consummated until later. How awful is that. When she is essentially date raped, she doesn't go to the police, Claire goes to Henry who engages in some vigilante justice. It was horrible what happened to her, but she should have reported it to the authorities. The yuck factor from a bunch of places absolutely ruined the book for me not to mention that fact that Claire never really had a childhood or life at all without Henry in it. That's not romantic, it's sad. Anyway, my apologies if you loved it. Like I said, I am willing to consider other opinions on this book- I just really can't recommend it. ...more \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2606[9/10] I place my finger on her forehead and say, \u201cVanish,\u201d but it is she who will stay; I am the one who is vanishing. The allure of time travel is timeless. It is classic. Too many authors have tried their luck at making time travel the backdrop of their novels and they have always been rewarded with a huge success. Unlike many other time-travelling heroes, our Henry DeTamble isn't a mastermind that invented his own time-travelling contraption. He is an average librarian who wishes m \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2606[9/10] I place my finger on her forehead and say, \u201cVanish,\u201d but it is she who will stay; I am the one who is vanishing. The allure of time travel is timeless. It is classic. Too many authors have tried their luck at making time travel the backdrop of their novels and they have always been rewarded with a huge success. Unlike many other time-travelling heroes, our Henry DeTamble isn't a mastermind that invented his own time-travelling contraption. He is an average librarian who wishes more than anything to be nothing but a librarian. He has his own share of regrets, mourns his mother and contends with his father and believes in irredeemable alcoholics. \u201cHe's an alcoholic. That's what alcoholics do. It's in their job description: Fall apart, and then keep falling apart.\u201d Time travelling is in his genes. Just like any other nasty, undesirable trait, time travelling is in his genes. Also, unlike other broad spectrum time travels, his is confined to the accursed years of his own life. As romantic as it sounds, watching your wife grow as a kid and into adulthood is a creepy twist of fate. The story spans across the entire lifetime of Henry and validates time travel as the effective means to keep coming back into the lives of your beloved ones even after you are dead; both of which turned out to be major damp squibs for me. I can't imagine, if my head is reeling with all the alternating POVs and bestrewn timelines, how Audrey Niffenegger would have laboured at keeping the narrative straight and events in proper succession. There was nothing spectacular about the language(bear in mind that the author has equal command over French and German too), but that's one boo-boo you'd soon forget as the story progresses. You'll be riding the crest of the wave until you reach the shore, where all of a sudden, the tide ebbs and you will land on the ground with a heavy thud . I have seen the end coming in the most insipid way, but that's also something you would accept for the stupendousness of the way the age-old concept is handled to suit the needs of an average 21st-century reader. I doubt the science-fiction-ness of the story, though. Building a time machine is one thing and being one is another! Also, one can't overlook the subtle but scathing criticism for one particular country, which goes on like this- I told Ing once that she dances like a German and she didn't like it, but it's true: she dances seriously, like lives are hanging in the balance, like precision dancing can save the starving children in India. Or this- \u201cOddball religions. Sappy boring music. Pathetic attempts to convince oneself of the superiority of anything connected with Indians. Non-Western medicine.\u201d This one counts too- \u201cDoes the Newberry really have a book made out of human skin?\u201d Charisse asks Henry. \u201cYep. The Chronicles of Nawat Wuzeer Hydembed. It was found in the palace of the King of Delhi in 1857. Come by some time and I'll pull it out for you.\u201d Or, is it just me? I have got nothing against you, country! ...more What I love about THE TIME TRAVELER'S WIFE is that Niffenegger absolutely nails the relationship between Henry and Claire. For all the book's faults (in particular a draggy middle), I haven't read a book yet with such chemistry between the two main characters. Add to that Niffenegger's beautiful use of language and dry sense of humor and this is a book I keep going back to. ***wondering why all my reviews are five stars? Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read. Cons What I love about THE TIME TRAVELER'S WIFE is that Niffenegger absolutely nails the relationship between Henry and Claire. For all the book's faults (in particular a draggy middle), I haven't read a book yet with such chemistry between the two main characters. Add to that Niffenegger's beautiful use of language and dry sense of humor and this is a book I keep going back to. ***wondering why all my reviews are five stars? Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read. Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement. I can't believe I just said \"hearty.\" It sounds like a stew.**** ...more I'm finally finished! I have several problems with this book, many of which were laid out by my friend Liz's brilliant post (thanks for lending me this read--I think). First of all, it's way too long. The plot is not so action-packed that it merits 600 pages and hour upon hour of my time. Why you ask? Because nothing happens! There were about 400 pages where Henry just floats back and forth through time, Clare is annoying, and no plot advancement occurs. I mourn the loss of all those trees. The s I'm finally finished! I have several problems with this book, many of which were laid out by my friend Liz's brilliant post (thanks for lending me this read--I think). First of all, it's way too long. The plot is not so action-packed that it merits 600 pages and hour upon hour of my time. Why you ask? Because nothing happens! There were about 400 pages where Henry just floats back and forth through time, Clare is annoying, and no plot advancement occurs. I mourn the loss of all those trees. The second major problem I have with this book is how little you feel for the characters. I felt no sense of dread, or pain, or happiness for them, ever. Considering the author had pleeeeenty of time to endear Henry and Clare to the reader, I never once found myself affected by their strange fates. I think part of this is because she keeps them emotionally guarded even though we are in their heads the whole book and also because it's hard to imagine people like them existing in real life, much less dating and marrying. I mean, what is a rich little prim and proper girl like Clare doing living and philandering with communists? I know she's an artist, but come on. Okay one last gripe: I am so irked at how the author inserted a snippet of The Odyssey at the end of the book. She can't possibly think her book should be considered a classic like that--and even if it's only meant to compare the two stories, I hate the deliberateness and pompousness of such an inclusion! It's a shame this book wasn't executed better because the idea behind it--how time affects relationships, how relationships exist at different phases in our lives, and how timing plays into relationships--is brilliant. Right now I am just annoyed that I spent so much time slogging through this thing. ...more I don\u2019t actually hate this book or maybe I do; I can\u2019t make up my mind. There were plenty of things in this book for me to hate about it, that\u2019s for sure. I hated the consistent cussing\u2014-every cuss word in the dictionary from mildly bad to absolutely unnecessary is repeated too often. I hated some of Clare\u2019s choices. I hated some of Henry\u2019s choices. I hated the miscarriage chapters\u2014-ugh too close for comfort. \u201cSave me\u201d is the best way I can express my feeling about the middle of the book. I hate I don\u2019t actually hate this book or maybe I do; I can\u2019t make up my mind. There were plenty of things in this book for me to hate about it, that\u2019s for sure. I hated the consistent cussing\u2014-every cuss word in the dictionary from mildly bad to absolutely unnecessary is repeated too often. I hated some of Clare\u2019s choices. I hated some of Henry\u2019s choices. I hated the miscarriage chapters\u2014-ugh too close for comfort. \u201cSave me\u201d is the best way I can express my feeling about the middle of the book. I hated how the author created a wonderful idea and concept-\u2014time traveling, seeing your spouse in the past, present, future\u2014-but then executing that wonderful idea so poorly. Time traveling could answer one of life\u2019s more frustrating questions: \u201cWould I have done things differently if I had known?\u201d Unfortunately the author didn\u2019t dwell on the concept. The author also disappointed me with her display of Henry\u2019s character. Henry is \u201cgood\u201d (meaning better than he was in the middle of the book but I wouldn\u2019t want to be married to him) at the beginning and ending of the book, but awful in the middle; because of what? What happens to Henry that changes him later in life to be a better person? The author never really expounds\u2014-you kind of guess it\u2019s from life\u2019s challenges and Clare\u2019s influence, but you don\u2019t really know because the author doesn\u2019t talk about Henry\u2019s moral development and change. The only reason you even know something changes in Henry is a little from Clare\u2019s dialog and from the fact that he\u2019s cussing up a storm in the middle of the book but not cussing as much in the beginning and end. Boy, I thought Twilight was frustrating; The Time Traveler\u2019s Wife drove me crazy. I wish the author would have displayed Henry\u2019s growth differently and more firmly. Another character that drove me crazy was Gomez. First, I pictured him dark haired until like mid-way through the book where Clare describes him with blonde hair, what? I know the Gomez name was a nickname from his ridiculously long last name not because it's his ethnic first name, but still. Anyway it is totally my own fault for picturing him dark haired and darker toned, but it still bugged me to have to recreate a picture of Gomez in my mind\u2014-some tall, fair-skinned, blonde guy. Anyway, why I brought Gomez up wasn\u2019t about his hair color, but his moral character. He\u2019s a jerk not a friend, but Henry and Clare seem to think he\u2019s so great to them. Why? Even Gomez's own wife, Charisse, kind of knows he\u2019s a creep, but doesn\u2019t expound on this or discuss it with her best girlfriend, Clare. Oh yeah, that's right, Charisse decides it is best to discuss Gomez's lack of moral character with Henry. What? Why isn't Henry freaking out about his best friend lusting after his wife? And why does Henry think this is healthy for Charisse to have Gomez basically love someone else? This author is so frustrating. This book could have been so much better; it was often close to being great and then would fall flat instead of climaxing. The best part of the book for me was toward the end when Clare reads Henry\u2019s note and he tells her to not waste her life because of his death. He encourages her to live life, love the world, and LIVE; finally, someone learns from past behavior. I enjoyed seeing Henry be a wonderful man to Clare by helping her live instead of hide. He learned from his dad\u2019s tragedy and made something that could have been tragic great. That was the best part and everything else fell short. The concept of the book is so wonderful\u2014-time traveling; I loved the concept, wish I could say I loved the book. I will not recommend this book to anyone because of the foul language and poor choices made by main characters that seem to have no consequences for these bad choices; do the characters even feel remorse for these choices? Where\u2019s the dialog for that? ...more \u2665~\u2665 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qgDJbA... \u2665~\u2665 \u0648\u0628\u0635\u0641\u062a\u064a \u0641\u062a\u0627\u0629 \u0631\u0648\u0645\u0627\u0646\u0633\u064a\u0629 \u0646\u062d\u0646\u0648\u062d\u0629 \u0645\u0633\u0647\u0648\u0643\u0629 \u064b\u0641\u0625\u0646\u0646\u064a \u0623\u062d\u0628\u0628\u062a\u064f \u0647\u0630\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062f\u0627\u0641\u0626\u0629 \u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0633\u064a\u0637\u0629 \u0644\u064a\u0633\u062a \u0630\u0627\u062a \u0623\u0628\u0639\u0627\u062f \u0648\u0644\u0627 \u062a\u0646\u0627\u0642\u0634 \u0641\u0644\u0633\u0641\u0629 \u0645\u0639\u064a\u0646\u0629 \u0647\u064a \u0641\u0627\u0646\u062a\u0627\u0632\u064a\u0627 \u0631\u0648\u0645\u0627\u0646\u0633\u064a\u0629 \u062c\u0645\u064a\u0644\u0629 \u0648\u0639\u0644\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u063a\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u0630\u0644\u0643 \u0641\u0647\u064a \u0623\u0643\u062b\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0645\u062c\u0631\u062f \u062a\u0633\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0625\u0636\u0627\u0639\u0629 \u0644\u0644\u0648\u0642\u062a \u062a\u062a\u0633\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631\u064d \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062f\u0641\u0621 \u0648 \u0627\u0644\u0635\u062f\u0642 \u0631\u0627\u0626\u062d\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0639\u0634\u0642\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0644\u0627 \u0627\u0628\u062a\u0630\u0627\u0644 \u0648\u0644\u0627 \u0645\u0632\u0627\u064a\u062f\u0629 \u0648\u062a\u0645\u062a \u0645\u0639\u0627\u0644\u062c\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u0627\u0646\u062a\u0627\u0632\u064a\u0627 \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0628\u062d\u0631\u0641\u064a\u0629 \u0634\u062f\u064a\u062f\u0629 \u062c\u0639\u0644\u062a\u0646\u064a \u0645\u0631\u062a\u0627\u062d\u0629 \u0648\u0633\u0639\u064a\u062f\u0629 \u0642\u0636\u064a\u062a\u064f \u0648\u0642\u062a\u0627 \u0645\u0645\u062a\u0639\u0627\u064b \u0648\u0648\u0642\u0639\u062a\u064f \u0641\u064a \u063a\u0631\u0627\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0635\u0629 \u0634\u062f\u064a\u062f\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u063a\u0631\u0627\u0628\u0629 \u0639\u0646 \u0631\u062c\u0644 \u064a\u0633\u0627\u0641\u0631 \u0639\u0628\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0632\u0645\u0646 \u0644\u064a\u0642\u0627\u0628\u0644 \u062d\u0628 \u0639\u0645\u0631\u0647 \u0628\u0637\u0631\u064a\u0642\u0629 \u0644\u0645 \u064a\u062a\u0642\u0627\u0628\u0644 \u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0639\u0627 \u2665~\u2665 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qgDJbA... \u2665~\u2665 \u0648\u0628\u0635\u0641\u062a\u064a \u0641\u062a\u0627\u0629 \u0631\u0648\u0645\u0627\u0646\u0633\u064a\u0629 \u0646\u062d\u0646\u0648\u062d\u0629 \u0645\u0633\u0647\u0648\u0643\u0629 \u064b\u0641\u0625\u0646\u0646\u064a \u0623\u062d\u0628\u0628\u062a\u064f \u0647\u0630\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062f\u0627\u0641\u0626\u0629 \u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0633\u064a\u0637\u0629 \u0644\u064a\u0633\u062a \u0630\u0627\u062a \u0623\u0628\u0639\u0627\u062f \u0648\u0644\u0627 \u062a\u0646\u0627\u0642\u0634 \u0641\u0644\u0633\u0641\u0629 \u0645\u0639\u064a\u0646\u0629 \u0647\u064a \u0641\u0627\u0646\u062a\u0627\u0632\u064a\u0627 \u0631\u0648\u0645\u0627\u0646\u0633\u064a\u0629 \u062c\u0645\u064a\u0644\u0629 \u0648\u0639\u0644\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u063a\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u0630\u0644\u0643 \u0641\u0647\u064a \u0623\u0643\u062b\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0645\u062c\u0631\u062f \u062a\u0633\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0625\u0636\u0627\u0639\u0629 \u0644\u0644\u0648\u0642\u062a \u062a\u062a\u0633\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631\u064d \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062f\u0641\u0621 \u0648 \u0627\u0644\u0635\u062f\u0642 \u0631\u0627\u0626\u062d\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0639\u0634\u0642\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0644\u0627 \u0627\u0628\u062a\u0630\u0627\u0644 \u0648\u0644\u0627 \u0645\u0632\u0627\u064a\u062f\u0629 \u0648\u062a\u0645\u062a \u0645\u0639\u0627\u0644\u062c\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u0627\u0646\u062a\u0627\u0632\u064a\u0627 \u0647\u0646\u0627 \u0628\u062d\u0631\u0641\u064a\u0629 \u0634\u062f\u064a\u062f\u0629 \u062c\u0639\u0644\u062a\u0646\u064a \u0645\u0631\u062a\u0627\u062d\u0629 \u0648\u0633\u0639\u064a\u062f\u0629 \u0642\u0636\u064a\u062a\u064f \u0648\u0642\u062a\u0627 \u0645\u0645\u062a\u0639\u0627\u064b \u0648\u0648\u0642\u0639\u062a\u064f \u0641\u064a \u063a\u0631\u0627\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0635\u0629 \u0634\u062f\u064a\u062f\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u063a\u0631\u0627\u0628\u0629 \u0639\u0646 \u0631\u062c\u0644 \u064a\u0633\u0627\u0641\u0631 \u0639\u0628\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0632\u0645\u0646 \u0644\u064a\u0642\u0627\u0628\u0644 \u062d\u0628 \u0639\u0645\u0631\u0647 \u0628\u0637\u0631\u064a\u0642\u0629 \u0644\u0645 \u064a\u062a\u0642\u0627\u0628\u0644 \u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0639\u0627\u0634\u0642\u064a\u0646 \u0645\u0646 \u0642\u0628\u0644 \u0648\u0628\u0631\u063a\u0645 \u0635\u0641\u062d\u0627\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u062f\u064a\u062f\u0629 \u0625\u0644\u0627 \u0623\u0646\u0646\u064a \u0644\u0645 \u0623\u0645\u0644\u0651 \u0644\u062d\u0638\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0645\u062a\u0639\u062a \u0628\u0643\u0644 \u062a\u0641\u0627\u0635\u064a\u0644\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0635\u063a\u064a\u0631\u0629 ...more This story was really cool but it was far too long for what it was! I liked the idea of the time travelling, and the book started off really good. But it either went downhill or I lost interest by the end. Didn't really like Henry or Clare. I love short chapters in books but this was almost too choppy for me. And don't get me started on the dream parts. I just wouldn't read them. I don't care. So many chapters could have been taken out this book with no damage to the storyline. The Time Traveller's Wife was published in 2003. It was Audrey Niffenegger's first novel, and is a surprisingly accomplished feat, involving a complicated time structure and alternating first-person perspectives. The two main characters, Henry and Clare, are introduced by way of a Prologue. The couple meet in a library in Chicago, but while Clare clearly knows Henry very well, and has done for a long time, Henry does not seem to know who she is. He is vaguely dazzled by this \"luminous creature\" , The Time Traveller's Wife was published in 2003. It was Audrey Niffenegger's first novel, and is a surprisingly accomplished feat, involving a complicated time structure and alternating first-person perspectives. The two main characters, Henry and Clare, are introduced by way of a Prologue. The couple meet in a library in Chicago, but while Clare clearly knows Henry very well, and has done for a long time, Henry does not seem to know who she is. He is vaguely dazzled by this \"luminous creature\" , who insists that she has known him since she was six years old ... at which time he was 43. Since Clare is now 20, and Henry is 28, this seems a confusing scenario for the reader. We gradually come to understand that this is because Henry has been travelling from his future to her past, and that in her past they had fallen in love. We understand that Henry hasn't actually yet met Clare in his own present. Henry, therefore is the time traveller, and Clare is his eponymous wife. This sets a pattern for the rest of the story, which largely follows Clare's life but is interspersed with some of Henry's time-travelling adventures. Audrey Niffenegger explains that Henry has been born with a genetic dysfunction, which she terms, \"chrono-displacement\" . The Time Traveller's Wife is divided into three parts. The first Book: \"The Man Out Of Time\" , broadly covers Clare's growing understanding of the unique relationship she is to have with Henry. Clare has carefully kept a diary, which details all the future dates for Henry's visits, and she shows him this on almost their first meeting. The obvious result is that Henry feels rather overwhelmed and confused, and does not know what to make of it all, but also finds himself very attracted to Clare, her obvious passion and fervent loyalty. It also squares with his own experience and what he knows about himself. Henry can remember the first time he time travelled, on his fifth birthday. He had enjoyed his first visit to a Museum of Natural History in Chicago so much, that later on he found that he had suddenly been pulled back there in time to the museum. The novel breaks the accepted rules of most time travel books at this point, (view spoiler) [by having young Henry meet an older, 24-year-old version of himself. The older Henry explains that he is a time traveller, but that it is a great secret. All through Henry's teenage years, the older Henry teaches him various tricks which he will need to know to survive, such as stealing, breaking and entering, and running from the police. (hide spoiler) ] A major shift in the narrative comes, as we next read a description of the event Clare has already referred to. We jump to the first time she as a 6-year-old met the 43-year-old Henry in a meadow, near her family's house on Lake Michigan. Henry had called out to Clare from behind a bush, where he was trying to conceal his naked self. Oddly, this apparently rather dubious situation comes across in the story as being rather sweet, with a very self-possessed young Clare, merely handing Henry her picnic blanket so he can cover himself up. The book follows her childhood and teenage years; her longing for a physical relationship with the 43-year-old Henry, since she knows that she will be with him in her future. We see her growing recognition that her peers think her strange, wondering why she is not interested in boys of her own age. (view spoiler) [A particularly poignant part of this first section is set at Christmas time. Clare has hidden Henry in the reading room of her parents' house. She knows that Henry hates Christmas, because he had told her that was when his mother died. On the morning of Christmas Eve, when Henry was six years old, both he and his mother had been involved in a car accident on their way to pick up his father. Henry managed to survive only because he had time travelled. Ever since that occasion he had been overcome with guilt for not being able to save his mother's life, travelling to the scene of her death over and over again, but helpless to do anything except watch the tragedy unfold. Henry thinks he should have died then too. (hide spoiler) ] However, the book has many comedic moments, since Henry can never take anything with him into the next world, not even his clothes. Usually he can name the date of his next trip, and Clare becomes used to arriving with clothes for him, but as the novel progresses there are more of the spontaneous shifts, where at any moment Henry finds himself sucked out of the present and thrown naked into another time and place. (view spoiler) [ One example is when Clare and Henry get married. With all their family and friends in attendance, Henry is whisked away without warning, just before the ceremony. But through a coincidence beloved of novelists, an older Henry shoots through the years to take his place. Oddly only the most observant of guests wonders about his suddenly grizzled appearance. (hide spoiler) ] The second Book: \"A Drop Of Blood in a Bowl of Milk\" begins with Henry and Clare's married life, which is marked by Henry's frequent absences and Clare's inevitable worries about him. (view spoiler) [She has begun to feel trapped and frustrated in their small apartment. Of course with the premise of the novel, Henry is able to buy a winning lottery ticket, which he duly does, they move into a larger place where Clare has a studio and can pursue her Art ventures, and all is hunky dory again. (hide spoiler) ] Audrey Niffenegger carefully explores the emotions of the couple, and it is interesting to the reader to observe the dynamics of their characters and relationship. The time travel element serves to highlight and sometimes resolve any cracks in the relationship. There is a point in the novel, for instance, where Clare is in her thirties, and Henry is 41. Their relationship is rather jaded, as Clare narrates, \"Henry's been gone for almost 24 hours now, and as usual I'm torn between thinking obsessively about when and where he might be and being pissed at him for not being here... I hear Henry whistling as he comes up the path through the garden, into the studio. He stomps the snow off his boots and shrugs off his coat. He's looking marvellous, really happy. My heart is racing and I take a wild guess: 'May 24, 1989?' 'Yes, oh yes,' Henry scoops me up, and swings me around. Now I'm laughing; we're both laughing.\" The reason for this, (view spoiler) [ as their present selves both know, is that Henry has been swept back to the date when he and Clare first made love, when Clare was just 18, before once again being pulled back into his present. And the recognition of this (hide spoiler) ] mends the breach they are both feeling, and also serves to demonstrate to the reader a shift or dichotomy within any relationship, new or established, where one is feeling and experiencing different emotions from the other, at any one time. This dichotomy then is the crux of the novel. One person's story is always going to be slightly different from another's, even when they are experiencing the same relationship. The novel does have limitations. Its focus is really very narrow, even though the complexity of the time travel element does mean that the reader tends to give up on carefully following the chronology - the dates heading each chapter - and just go with the flow. But these two characters seem to be almost fanatically trying to have the conventional American dream of happy, \"normal\", domesticity, and in the end this begins to pall a little, to feel a little tired. There is even an attempt in this middle section to give the fantasy element more validity, with the introduction of a new character, a Dr. Kendrick. With his assistance, Henry's involuntary time travel will later become known as \"Chrono-Impairment\" . Sadly this plot development leads nowhere. (view spoiler) [The doctor says he won't be able to cure him, because this newly recognised disorder is too complex to work out and treat during Henry's lifetime. The condition does appear to be hereditary, which explains Clare's repeated miscarriages. The unborn babies seem to time travel, which means that Clare's body aborts them. There is a way around this however, again using the premise of time travel, and eventually Henry meets the child, Alba, whom they will have together in the future. He discovers that she has more control over her travels than he does, but also learns from her the imminent date of his death. (hide spoiler) ] There is also a mysterious shooting accident in this part, plus a gruesome operation making Henry's ability to time travel very dangerous. Neither of these episodes I found terribly convincing. The accident seemed to be put in purely for the mystery element - to make the reader wonder at the reason for all the blood, to wonder if it was fatal - during a couple of time travel episodes. The unconnected medical operation merely seemed rather ludicrous. The third Book: \"A Treatise on Longing\" is possibly the least satisfactory part of the novel. (view spoiler) [It describes Clare's life after Henry's death. Although a letter from Henry has urged Clare to move on with her life, she also learns from it that he had once travelled to her future, where he had seen her as an old woman. This makes Clare decide to wait for him. For many years Alba sees Henry on his visits, but he never visits Clare again, until she is 82 years old. (hide spoiler) ] Although with this final section the ending is inevitable, and meant to be poignant, it comes across as rather sentimental and maudlin. Throughout the novel the reader knows that Henry and Clare's lives are already mapped out, and the time of their deaths already written. This impinges on the fantasy element rather too much. In fact it smacks a little of a spiritual religiosity - and one without free will. However, this is a very ambitious project for a first novel, and for much of the novel it translates onto the page with skill, an authentic believability, and a fair amount of charm. If there had been no time travel element, this would be a romantic novel, perhaps with a psychological focus, or a simple family saga. The domestic details here are more enjoyable because they add the necessary realism to the fantasy. Even though the relationship element is predominant, the fascination with the time travel element tends to enhance what might otherwise be a mundane if romantic story. Some of it works, some does not; some is rather mawkish. It is very possible that Audrey Niffenegger's best novel is yet to come. She has since written another novel, \"Her Fearful Symmetry\" and a balletic fable, for the Royal Opera House Ballet in London, in addition to her previous graphic novels. She is professor of creative writing at Columbia College, Chicago. It will be interesting to read the novel she is currently working on, \"The Chinchilla Girl in Exile\" , and to see whether this novelist has grown in stature. \u201cI won't ever leave you, even though you're always leaving me.\u201d \u201cI wanted someone to love who would stay: stay and be there, always.\u201d \u201cMaybe I'm dreaming you. Maybe you're dreaming me; maybe we only exist in each other's dreams and every morning when we wake up we forget all about each other.\u201d ...more OK, to be honest, I'm having a hard time reviewing this book. I had a mixed feeling that sometimes I like this book and sometimes I dislike this book. There were moments when I just want to throw this book and moments when I suddenly realized that I'm having a hard time putting it down. It's difficult to write the review cause somehow I want to tell you everything. Henry has chrono-displacement disorder , and he will be sucked backs and forth in time (mostly when he was stressed). He can't control OK, to be honest, I'm having a hard time reviewing this book. I had a mixed feeling that sometimes I like this book and sometimes I dislike this book. There were moments when I just want to throw this book and moments when I suddenly realized that I'm having a hard time putting it down. It's difficult to write the review cause somehow I want to tell you everything. Henry has chrono-displacement disorder , and he will be sucked backs and forth in time (mostly when he was stressed). He can't control it, didn't ask for it, and is not exactly happy with it. But he learns how to handle it. He shows up naked and has to figure out how to survive for however long he is there. Sounds sci-fi to you? I have never been a fan of sci-fi, but I can tell this is not \"pure\" sci-fi. In my opinion the time travel is just an element background for the story. Perhaps some people might be more carried away by the romance and relationship between Henry and Clare. The story unfurls through time with first person perspectives from both Henry and Clare. The first 100 pages really engaging and intrigued me. I remember that I found it a little difficult at first, I mean, I couldn't keep track of anything cause the time line shifting back and forth rapidly. But on the contrary that was the main point that hooked me. I eagerly awaited the moment where it would become obvious that Clare and Henry were meant to be together. The battle between free will vs fate plays an important role in the story. That's was the biggest issue for me that keep me wondering all the time, even after I finished the book. But then things turned for me at some point midway through the book. I don't why, but I felt the book suddenly turns out to be so tedious for me that I decided to put it off for a week. Too much unnecessary details for me I guess :D but then there's something itching in my mind that somehow triggered my curiosity to find out what will happen to Henry. So I decided to finished it. OK.... SPOILERS ALERT!!! DO NOT READ BEYOND THIS POINT IF YOU HAVEN'T READ THE BOOK OR YOU HAVE PLAN TO READ THIS BOOK After finished this book I have so many question dangling in my head. Do I like it? Do I hate it? should I gave two stars? or four stars instead of two stars? I mean, this book sometimes funny, shocking, boring, heartbreaking and disturbing at the same time. I don't know whether I'm confuse or just stupid. The Good The non-linear narrative was interesting. The idea about love story blended with the time travel adventure are great. It make me wondering this question \"what if...\" constantly. I know that certain scene made some people sobbing and bathed in tears. Well, I admit that I had my moment too :D Not the ending part though. But the moment when Henry and Claire meet the seven years old Alba (I loved her!) from the future. How Alba ran toward Henry and crying in his shoulder and Henry whispered in her ear not to tell Clare that he will be dead soon (Henry died when Alba was five years old). So I understand how happy Alba and Henry to see each other. It's heartbreaking, I feel like an ugly giant sap at that scene. Ok, there I said it. Enough about that :D The Bad I don't know how I felt about Clare character, it seemed to me that she is never given a real chance to have her own life. Some of her decisions were made because she knew about the future, for example; would Clare learn to like coffee if Henry didn't tell her that she already like it in the future? and I think Henry and Clare relationship is pretty much built on sex. Did I mention that there's so much sex in this book? I remember I uttered the \"F\" words out loud in the middle of the night when I stumble upon the scene in which Clare had sex with \"Henry\" while the \"present\" Henry is a asleep next to her. I don't know... but for me, that's just freaking annoying. I also found the relationship between the young Clare and the older Henry disturbing. For me it was kinda child molestation by an adult male, it seemed wrong even though nothing wrong happened between them; at least until Clare turns eighteen years old. I said \"whoaaaa\" at Clare's 18 birthday:D ...more Just in time for the movie release, I finally got around to reading this after it'd been sitting on my bookshelf for months. There's a lot of hype surrounding this book, which automatically makes me want to hate it in a very superior way. But I can't hate it because, frankly, I liked reading this. Not loved, just liked. The simplest thing I can say about this story is that it's nice. But just for fun, I'm going to do this review in a style I call The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly. Because then I g Just in time for the movie release, I finally got around to reading this after it'd been sitting on my bookshelf for months. There's a lot of hype surrounding this book, which automatically makes me want to hate it in a very superior way. But I can't hate it because, frankly, I liked reading this. Not loved, just liked. The simplest thing I can say about this story is that it's nice. But just for fun, I'm going to do this review in a style I call The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly. Because then I get to complain and nitpick more. The Good: Niffenegger (say that five times fast) gets maximum points for originality, plus ten bonus points for writing a book centered on time travel that never makes the readers go cross-eyed from confusion. Yes, the time travel aspect takes a little getting used to, but it didn't leave me nearly as mystified as plot devices like that usually do. And while I wish she hadn't felt the need to come up with a scientific explanation as to why Henry time travels (genes? really?) I understand why she wanted to make the story as plausible and realistic as possible. The Bad: the book is a romantic story first and foremost, and you have to be in the right mood for that. Since I possess a level of cynicism and disillusionment usually reserved for ninety-year-old war veterans, schmoopy romances like this are rarely my cup of tea. But for the most part, it was okay. The next thing is a minor nitpick, but it's still bugging me: at one point in the story, Henry describes his former girlfriend as \"looking like her usual Bond Girl self.\" I wonder, how many Bond movies has this author actually seen? I'd guess the answer is \"not many\", but maybe I've just seen too many. Is it just me, or does describing someone as looking like a Bond Girl seem way too unspecific? I mean, think about all the different Bond Girls - they don't all fit into one specific mold. Pussy Galore vs. Vesper Lynd, for instance. The Ugly: To be perfectly frank, I got a little tired of constantly hearing about how mind-blowingly fantastic Henry and Clare's sex life was. It seemed like every five pages they were fucking again. (and Niffenegger almost never says \"having sex\" or \"making love\", it is always \"fucking.\" Classy.) Really, Niffenegger: we don't need to know all of this stuff. You say Clare goes crazy for oral sex? How fascinating, can we move on now? Oh good, now Clare is fucking someone else. I hope we get a blow-by-blow description and then a tasteful, far overdue fade-to-black! The author gets credit for keeping Henry and Clare's early relationship relatively not-creepy (this was when he was in his forties and time traveling to Clare's childhood), but that goes out the window when Clare turns eighteen and Henry visits her as a 41-year-old. This, incendentally, is the point at which Clare discovers just how much she loves having cunnilingus performed on her. Excuse me while I go stand in the corner doing the cootie dance. ...more", "Title": "The Time Traveler's Wife"},
