{"Comments": "<+++>High in School</+++>Put yourself in a situation where you\u2019re a freshman in high school but not ordinary school. Its maybe a combine between a prison, regular public high school and Hogwarts. Everyone thinks you\u2019re a stoner, but you are actually is. You\u2019re smart, skinny, and have a group of friend who as crazy as you.<---F> They live in very imaginary environment</---F>. You\u2019re trying to change them but actually they changed you, the better you. You start believing in something called love but in the same time you don't actually Put yourself in a situation where you\u2019re a freshman in high school but not ordinary school. Its maybe a combine between a prison, regular public high school and Hogwarts. Everyone thinks you\u2019re a stoner, but you are actually is. You\u2019re smart, skinny, and have a group of friend who as crazy as you. They live in very imaginary environment. You\u2019re trying to change them but actually they changed you, the better you. You start believing in something called love but in the same time you don't actually know what is it. Very crazy books I must say. ...more Seems the author/publisher has created multiple private accounts to put up false reviews of this book. The only reviewer who didn't have a private profile copied my review for Diary of a Wimpy Kid and applied it to this book. Robert Mchale's review http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... \"Don\u2019t expect Tolkien, but this novel will make you laugh.[Guaranteed!!] <---A>Salman Aditya</---A> is obviously still a big kid himself because he writes about the daily life of school boys with alarming accuracy.\" This was really funny, I don't know if it's supposed to be a kids' book or just meant to look like one. A fake journal of an awkward boy's first semester of high-school and his trials and tribulations, hand-written and complete with some cute drawings. Snarky, wild,<---M> weird and in the same time clever</---M>, while all at the same time being able to provide some interesting school story and background on some of the best old jokes. A good fun read that goes quickly and offers some fun facts and puts to rest some other misconceptions. Aku udah baca buku ini sekilas di Amazon. Cukup menarik tata bahasanya dan logika berfikirnya juga aneh, nyeleneh tapi segar dan yang terpenting buku ini gak cuman lucu dan bisa buat ngakak aja tapi buku ini sedikit demi sedikit sangat inspiratif juga. Gak nyangka ada orang Indo yang bisa buat buku yg diakui dan dapat rating tinggi sama maysarakat international. Salut sama Salman Aditya. Semoga dia dapet apresisasi yang lebih di negaranya sendiri yaitu Indonesia. Extremely charming, this book had me turning the pages. The fonts are big (<---B>at least in my edition</---B>), so it's easier for children to read, and the illustrations (though sometimes not quite accurate) do a good job of painting a visual picture to the words. As an adult, I still really enjoyed reading this again, and will probably go back and read a few more Salman Aditya books before too long. You know what? You guys should read this book, I never heard the author before but he is genius. He write a book like no one that I known of. I have read books from Jeff Kinney, P.G Wodehouse, Tina Fey, Steve Martin and so on but this book just different. The structure, the narration, the character, the story it makes you really wonder. It's interesting stuff going on in this book related to the kids this day, school, home and his study group and their madness with the new things and concepts that he is learning in life. It's makes me feel good because I myself reminisce a lot of time about all the stupidity and foolish plans that I use to come up with. Nothing sucks more than that moment during an argument when you realize you\u2019re wrong. I'm never wrong and I can tell you that this book are fantastic. just give it a shot an you see. I don't know who the author is though, i think his a drunk or something : his bio I guess some people may say this book as a bad writing, but I think they are grammar hitler. The author of this book choose to say it loud and clear without any boundaries and stick rule. It maybe confusing at first but after several pages you will see its really easy to read. Its make the book unique and I must say a breakthrough.. Don\u2019t expect Tolkien, but this novel will make you laugh.Guaranteed!! Salman Aditya is obviously still a big kid himself because he writes about the daily life of school boys with alarming accuracy. Life as a school boy gives you plenty to deal with and he add it with some unique flavor. I love a story with an ever increasing comedy or errors. Yes, I love a book that makes you laugh out loud. And I love a book that tells a story where everything works out till the end. This book delivers on all accounts. This book was so nice and funny. :o Actually this book is, like, written for me! I have this annoying thing (its school) and a irritating small thing (family) just like Ryan and everything written in this book is like my life situation. I LOVED high in School. It was so hilarious, I almost fell of my bed. It didn't take me long to read, because once you read it you will be sucked in to it. I loved the plot, and how james thought about things. His study group, his friends, they also really funny! This is my perfect kind of book: not that well written (so its not boring), the author write this book in a different perspective. he doesn't care about rules and stuff but I think that's make this book different. I actually know this book author. So I'm not gonna review this book because its not fair. What I can tell you that this book author Salman Aditya I think his nuts and I never stop laughing when he around. I think this book is HILARIOUS! It is fun and enjoyable for any age! The jokes are funny and what makes it even better is that you can easily get them! I think one of the main thing in this book that makes it funny is the worldsplay. Its unique and has very different angle.. WOW! this book seems amazing...! where can I find the Malay language printed version of this book in Malaysia ??? This is a book that I read over and over and over again because it never gets old and its real at least for me! This book is one of my favorites because it was funny and it was really interesting. a very good book except for the fact that it is not that easy to read this book. To me this book is like radiohead, do you even remember them? if you are then you absolutely know what I'm talking about. To me reading this book is not all about funny, laugh at loud and something but its more like a different experience. I never read anything like this before.. if you are looking for book that makes you laugh at loud and smile in the same time You\u2019re in the right place. I usually avoid these types of books yet I try to buy and read it. well I'm not wasting my time after all.. I really enjoy reading it I don't think that people will be adapt with the words play on this book very fast, but when they has adapted it will make them laugh! Laugh out loud Guarantee! I never read something like this before. It's writing are strange but the story are truly hilarious.. Its an amazing book. High school stories never told this way. Unique. cute. unusual. weird. but combine it all amazingly hilarious! <+++>High in School</+++> was just as funny and descriptive as the other. In this book, James has disturbing conflicts with his ego and weeds addiction that enrages James. Laughter truly is the best medicine and this book has cure me and makes me smile a little. God bless the author. It's not that similar to Jeff Kinney's Diary of a wimpy kid better yet this one is written by a drunk and stoned humorist, enough said.<---C>Salman Aditya</---C>", "Title": "High in School"},
