{"Comments": "I wanted to like <+++>Little Bee</+++>.<---F> The reviews for it are exceptional</---F>. Book List starred it, Amazon named it among their \u201cFebruary Best of the Month\u201d picks, O Magazine fondly mentions it. I mean come on, Library Journal labels it \u201cthe next Kite Runner\u201d for goodness sakes! I couldn\u2019t wait to be swept away. And I was\u2026 for the first couple of chapters. <+++>Little Bee</+++>\u2019s character came on very strong and distinct. I felt like I could pick her out of a crowd and guess what she was thinking. But I gradually star I wanted to like Little Bee. The reviews for it are exceptional. Book List starred it, Amazon named it among their \u201cFebruary Best of the Month\u201d picks, O Magazine fondly mentions it. I mean come on, Library Journal labels it \u201cthe next Kite Runner\u201d for goodness sakes! I couldn\u2019t wait to be swept away. And I was\u2026 for the first couple of chapters. Little Bee\u2019s character came on very strong and distinct. I felt like I could pick her out of a crowd and guess what she was thinking. But I gradually started rolling my eyes and questioning plot details and characterization. For example, Sarah\u2019s mom and sister are briefly mentioned; they come to her house after the funeral, but she begs them to leave her alone. There\u2019s no mention of their reaction to the fact that there is suddenly a Nigerian girl living at her house. ??? Also, according to the timeline description it seems that Charlie begins wearing the Batman costume before his father passes. It would make more sense if he began wearing it after the passing based on his reasons for wearing it. ??? And seriously, the cops caught Little Bee because she was at the scene of Charlie\u2019s near disappearance? Seriously? Sarah\u2019s relationship with Lawrence is odd, Charlie draws conclusions unbelieving for a four year old, and the ending is rushed and unmoving. There\u2019s just this hokey feel to it that I couldn\u2019t get past. This is the first time ever for me that I could tell that the author was not the same sex as his main characters, more so when it came to Sarah rather than Little Bee. The way Sarah thinks,<---M> the things she says</---M>, her observations, and even her interactions with her son just don\u2019t make sense. It is clear that Cleave failed to unearth his female voice. Speaking of voice, Little Bee\u2019s chapters were much more convincing and enjoyable than Sarah\u2019s. The entire book written from Little Bee\u2019s point of view would have probably been a much better read. I\u2019m not giving this book only 1 star because it was too sad, or too graphic, or too haunting. It just fell flat. It wasn\u2019t convincing. All the ends didn\u2019t meet nor were all the i\u2019s dotted, t\u2019s crossed. It just didn\u2019t do it for me, and it is most certainly NOT the next Kite Runner. Good grief, it doesn\u2019t even compare. ...more I would have ranked this higher, were it not for the ridiculous hype on the jacket and the annoying Editor's letter at the front; all of which tell me that is book will change my life, that it's a masterpiece. This book stands on its own without needing it. I also pretty fundamentally disagreed with the assertion that \"it's hilarious - although the scene on the African beach is horrific\". This is not a 'hilarious' book - it is one of the most challenging reads I have had this year. It tells the de I would have ranked this higher, were it not for the ridiculous hype on the jacket and the annoying Editor's letter at the front; all of which tell me that is book will change my life, that it's a masterpiece. This book stands on its own without needing it. I also pretty fundamentally disagreed with the assertion that \"it's hilarious - although the scene on the African beach is horrific\". This is not a 'hilarious' book - it is one of the most challenging reads I have had this year. It tells the desperately tragic story of three people - two English and one Nigerian whose lives coincide in the most terrible way. Asylum and immigration in the UK are controversial topics in which media hysteria continually advocates that most asylum seekers are bogus. This book, which has been obviously extremely well researched, lays bare that lie; in a tight, devastating and tragic tale. Yes, this is a book that carries a very strong message and yes, this is a book that deserves to be read. Just try not to get too angry about the hype surrounding it - the subject deserves better. ...more <---A>Chris Cleave</---A>'s ability to float effortlessly between two distinct ethnic voices (Little Bee, a refugee from Nigeria, and Sarah, a young widow in England) as their stories spin out and around and through one another was nearly mystical. Years before this book opens, the lives of Sarah and Little Bee violently collided on a beach in Nigeria, and when sheer determination and courage bring them back together again every secret of their hearts is unfolded before our eyes. I found myself reading and rer Chris Cleave's ability to float effortlessly between two distinct ethnic voices (Little Bee, a refugee from Nigeria, and Sarah, a young widow in England) as their stories spin out and around and through one another was nearly mystical. Years before this book opens, the lives of Sarah and Little Bee violently collided on a beach in Nigeria, and when sheer determination and courage bring them back together again every secret of their hearts is unfolded before our eyes. I found myself reading and rereading passages, just to fully appreciate the gravity of emotion packed in them. Little Bee's voice, particularly, is by turns wryly funny and wrenching. Nothing escapes her notice, a skill honed by the brutality she witnessed in her native country. I put this book down after finishing it this morning with the distinct feeling that it will haunt me for a very, very long time. Brilliant. \"...I ask you right here please to agree with me that a scar is never ugly. That is what the scar makers want us to think. But you and I, we must make an agreement to defy them. We must see all scars as beauty. Okay? This will be our secret. Because take it from me, a scar does not form on the dying. A scar means, I survived. ... Sad words are just another beauty. A sad story means, this storyteller is alive. \" ...more **SPOILERS** In a way I feel sorry for Chris Cleave ... I wonder how he felt after seeing what the publishing and marketing machine crafted as the back cover promo copy for his book. Really. Not that I would have liked the book more had they not been so brash and marketing machine-y, but I may have given it more of a fair chance. \u201cWe don\u2019t want to tell you WHAT HAPPENS in this book. It is a truly SPECIAL STORY and we don\u2019t want to spoil it. NEVERTHELESS, you need to know enough to buy it, so we w **SPOILERS** In a way I feel sorry for Chris Cleave ... I wonder how he felt after seeing what the publishing and marketing machine crafted as the back cover promo copy for his book. Really. Not that I would have liked the book more had they not been so brash and marketing machine-y, but I may have given it more of a fair chance. \u201cWe don\u2019t want to tell you WHAT HAPPENS in this book. It is a truly SPECIAL STORY and we don\u2019t want to spoil it. NEVERTHELESS, you need to know enough to buy it, so we will just say this. This is the story of two women. Their lives collide one fateful day, and one of them has to make a terrible choice, the kind of choice we hope you never have t face. Two years later, they meet again\u2014the story starts there\u2026 Once you\u2019ve read it, you will want to tell your friends what happens. The magic is in how the story unfolds.\u201d I cry foul. The story unfolds as other stories unfold. Nothing is surprising, nothing happens that you could not see coming chapters earlier. There is nothing new in this book ... not in terms of writing, not in terms of plot, not in terms of structure. I understand the publishing behemoth and the machinations it goes through to build a buzz. It\u2019s just so full of itself sometimes that I want to scream into a pillow. And this was one of those times I wanted to scream into a pillow. LITTLE BEE is remarkably average. It is a book ripe for Oprah book club picking \u2026 if there\u2019s a heart sting to pull, the author makes a go of it. But instead of tugging at my heartstrings, the book makes a relentless grab, the threads unraveling until any feeling I was holding for the characters was gone and I was left feeling threadbare. I know horrible things happen in Nigeria and countless other countries. I just didn\u2019t like the parade of clich\u00e9s rolled out by LITTLE BEE in an effort to drive home the point. No character was a surprise. Sarah is the young, strong, career-minded, wealthy, white, British woman who runs her own fashion magazine \u2026 struggling (ever-so-not-convincingly) with losing her former self as a \"real\" journalist . . . having a long-term affair with a man that began w/in 30 minutes of her meeting him . . . having a husband that kills himself after that \"terrible choice\" on that \"fateful day\" on the beach in Nigeria, where they were trying to \"save their marriage\" . . . having a son who ever-so-quirkily will only dress in Batman costume and insists on being called Batman (and who, at four or five, can\u2019t seem to speak beyond the level of a 2-1/2 year old). I couldn\u2019t stand her. Sarah comes to learn some very important life lessons from Little Bee, a Nigerian refugee and orphan. Little Bee escapes the horrors of Nigeria and a detention center and finds her way to the middle of an idyllic white setting, where Cleave puts her on a mission to absolve guilt and change lives. Cleave tells the story in the voices of Little Bee and Sarah, in alternating chapters. For the first few of Little Bee\u2019s chapters I enjoyed his writing and found his characterization strong. I never liked Sarah\u2019s chapters; I never believed in her as a person. She was a woman full of stereotype written by a man who perhaps should have written from a man\u2019s perspective. Women writing as men, men writing as women . . . it rarely works out very well. But Little Bee\u2019s character is much more gender neutral, and I think that\u2019s why it works better for Cleave. When Little Bee would talk of finding a way to kill herself in any situation, in case the men came, I believed it. When Little Bee talked of telling the story to the girls back at home, I imagined how hard it really would be to relate the events to someone in that distant land. Overall, I found the book contrived and patronizing. As someone said in another review: \"Little Bee's story is brutal and important, and yet it is filled with eye-rolling cutesiness and an unnecessary amount of predictable padding. Too sweet for this reader.\" I'd have to agree. Rumor has it the book's being made into a movie, which isn't surprising. All that said, I know I will still recommend it to a number of my customers, because I know they will love it. And I guess that's the art of the handsell . . . recommending what fits a customer, not what you wish would fit him/her. ...more I generally pass on books written by a man in the voice of a woman. And a white man writing in a black woman's voice? No, thanks. But this book gives nothing away up front, and I was hooked before I could worry much about the writer's intentions. The chapters alternate between Little Bee, a Nigerian refugee, and Sarah, an English suburban mom. They are drawn together under extraordinary circumstances, and I found myself regularly surprised by the turn of events. I didn't know how things were goin I generally pass on books written by a man in the voice of a woman. And a white man writing in a black woman's voice? No, thanks. But this book gives nothing away up front, and I was hooked before I could worry much about the writer's intentions. The chapters alternate between Little Bee, a Nigerian refugee, and Sarah, an English suburban mom. They are drawn together under extraordinary circumstances, and I found myself regularly surprised by the turn of events. I didn't know how things were going to end until I was at the last page. It'll be a movie---no doubt about that. It played like a movie in my head. I loved it, though. ...more I had hoped this would be a really incredible gut-wrencher, heartbreaker of a book, but I feel like it didn't really live up to the potential it had. Like it was a little scattered and unfocused, so instead of showing us exactly what we should see, we are instead shown the things that lie around the thing that we should see, and we have to put the picture of the thing together on our own. If this book had just been about the relationship of two women who share a horrible event in their history, I had hoped this would be a really incredible gut-wrencher, heartbreaker of a book, but I feel like it didn't really live up to the potential it had. Like it was a little scattered and unfocused, so instead of showing us exactly what we should see, we are instead shown the things that lie around the thing that we should see, and we have to put the picture of the thing together on our own. If this book had just been about the relationship of two women who share a horrible event in their history, then this could have been a great book for me. But the 'issues' that were folded into this story left me feeling a little unsatisfied. One needs to be ballsy when dealing with these kinds of issues, if one is going to include them in their book. One needs to be willing to make it REAL, to make the reader ache for the characters that go through the things you show them. I've read a lot of gut-wrenching books. I was hoping that this would be one that would make me sit up and take notice... but it didn't. I didn't really feel like I could identify with any of the characters. Little Bee was a bit of an anomaly, being where she's been and where she is now. I found it hard to really understand her, even though it's apparent that she's meant to bridge the gap between her world and ours and allow us to empathize for those enduring such cruelty. But I didn't GET her, even though I mostly liked her and had my fingers crossed that she'd be OK. Sarah wasn't much better for me, either. I could understand her better, but I didn't like her. I thought that she was incredibly selfish and uncaring in her \"Suburban Early-30s Professional\" life. The way she derailed Little Bee's story with her own petty concerns and tedious details (those about her career and Lawrence) annoyed me. I understand the point to the story, I do, I just didn't care because I didn't much like her. She did grow up and mature over the course of the book, but the damage was done. All of this is not to say that this book isn't good. It is, but it's JUST good. It works out that way sometimes. I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book - the writing is gorgeous, and there are so many lines that are quotable gems strewn throughout... but great novels are more than just pretty words. I had hoped to really experience this one, to be thrown into the lives of these women and see something amazing through their eyes. I didn't get that, but for the potential and the beautiful writing, this gets a two. If it had been gutsy, and been focused, it could have easily been a five star book. Too bad. ...more Have you ever met someone you idolized? (An artist or singer, maybe. Someone super talented or brilliant or famous.) But then when you met them in person you found out they were lame? What a rip-off! That\u2019s sort of how I feel about this book. It's the story of two women and how their lives converge. Little Bee is a 16-year-old Nigerian refugee who has seen her entire village and family brutally murdered. Sarah is a 30-something suburbanite juggling career and family. The two women met once on a be Have you ever met someone you idolized? (An artist or singer, maybe. Someone super talented or brilliant or famous.) But then when you met them in person you found out they were lame? What a rip-off! That\u2019s sort of how I feel about this book. It's the story of two women and how their lives converge. Little Bee is a 16-year-old Nigerian refugee who has seen her entire village and family brutally murdered. Sarah is a 30-something suburbanite juggling career and family. The two women met once on a beach in Africa and something happened which changed both their lives, linking them forever. The story starts 2 years after the incident and is told from each woman's perspective, semi-alternately. In the beginning it\u2019s mostly Little Bee. I was completely taken in. Her spirit is beautiful, stunning, overwhelming, almost too bright and painful to look at. Her story is told in richly detailed moments that take pages to get through. I got completely caught up in the world she\u2019d created. I was there. I could see what she saw. And then, bit by bit, this gorgeous, lazy prose is interrupted by Sarah\u2019s story. She\u2019s confused. She\u2019s apathetic. She makes idiotic decisions. She\u2019s having the most lack-luster, extramarital affair ever. She kills the story incrementally. Her story is also told in detailed moments but I couldn\u2019t wait for it to stop. There are glimpses of Little Bee in this middle section but it\u2019s as if Sarah\u2019s story has stripped her of all sparkle. Ugh!! And then, miraculously, Little Bee is returned to us at the end of the book! She is delivered with her beauty unscathed and her voice is lovely as ever. By the time I was finished I had almost forgotten how Sarah ruined everything. ...more i cant say anything about the plot of this book because the dust jacket pleads with me not to and i am nothing if not obedient. (but you can read plot points in all the other reviews by rebels) i will say i loved it enough to order in and set aside his earlier book, which had never called out to me before. and this is my favorite cover ... ever. This book WILL: 1)Make you laugh hysterically. 2)Disturb you mightily. 3)Make you think A LOT. 4)Make you examine your conscience,(provided you actually have one to examine). Especially with regard to immigration issues and the tendency of wealthier nations to throw money at every problem in the hopes of making it go away. This book MAY: 1)Horrify you. 2)Make you angry. 3)Shock you. 4)Make you cry. The basic story involves the relationship that develops between Little Bee, a Nigerian refugee girl, and Sa This book WILL: 1)Make you laugh hysterically. 2)Disturb you mightily. 3)Make you think A LOT. 4)Make you examine your conscience,(provided you actually have one to examine). Especially with regard to immigration issues and the tendency of wealthier nations to throw money at every problem in the hopes of making it go away. This book MAY: 1)Horrify you. 2)Make you angry. 3)Shock you. 4)Make you cry. The basic story involves the relationship that develops between Little Bee, a Nigerian refugee girl, and Sarah, a thoroughly modern British woman. The chapters alternate between the two womens stories. This (male) author writes quite convincingly from female perspectives. Searchingly sensitive but not overwrought. This is one of those books where it will be impossible to predict who will like it and who won't. There are some serious current issues addressed, both worldwide and unique to the United Kingdom. It's a VERY fast read, so give it a go. Whatever your opinion about it, you won't forget it! ...more I would have to disagree with the back cover's claim that this book is \"often hilarious.\" This book is anything but hilarious. While there are indeed moments of light reprieve through Little Bee's witty observations and Charlie's adamant insistence of keeping his Batman costume on at all times (to ward off the \"baddies\"), this book is much more often dark and disturbing. Briefly, the book centers around a British couple with a troubled marriage who, while vacationing on the beaches of Nigeria in I would have to disagree with the back cover's claim that this book is \"often hilarious.\" This book is anything but hilarious. While there are indeed moments of light reprieve through Little Bee's witty observations and Charlie's adamant insistence of keeping his Batman costume on at all times (to ward off the \"baddies\"), this book is much more often dark and disturbing. Briefly, the book centers around a British couple with a troubled marriage who, while vacationing on the beaches of Nigeria in an effort to rekindle their relationship, encounter two young refugee girls fleeing from soldiers. What happens next I'm not supposed to say (according to the editor's note) as it would spoil the story too much. But the lives of these four people are irrevocably changed by the encounter, and in some pretty dreadful ways. There are some truly wonderful moments in this book, and I particularly enjoyed the chapters told from Little Bee's perspective. Her voice felt genuine and alive, and I personally think the book may have been more powerful had it been told entirely from her point of view. The chapters told from the perspective of Sarah (the wife in the above-mentioned British couple) just seemed to fall flat for me. As I write this, I realize it sounds like I didn't enjoy the book. I actually did. In fact, I feel the chapters from the POV of Little Bee are at least 4-star worthy. I just wish the book hadn't built itself up so much, and had been more confident in letting the story unfold quietly on its own. Had it not hailed itself as a masterpiece, I think I would have been pleasantly surprised instead of somewhat disappointed. 3.5 stars. ...more Isn't it funny when novels from their origin countries are marketed in the ol' U. S. of A. under a different title because it will 'sell better'. I can just imagine the pain the author must feel when they find that the title that represents their book seems as if it's just not good enough for the American public. I can think of a few such occasions where such a thing has happened: *Northern Lights, by Philip Pullman = The Golden Compass. *Harry Potter and Philosopher's Stone, by J.K. Rowling = Har Isn't it funny when novels from their origin countries are marketed in the ol' U. S. of A. under a different title because it will 'sell better'. I can just imagine the pain the author must feel when they find that the title that represents their book seems as if it's just not good enough for the American public. I can think of a few such occasions where such a thing has happened: *Northern Lights, by Philip Pullman = The Golden Compass. *Harry Potter and Philosopher's Stone, by J.K. Rowling = Harry Potter and the Sorceror's Stone. *Cross Stitch, by Diana Gabaldon = Outlander I'm sure there are reasons other than pandering to the fickle U.S. market and I'm being a cranky biddy, but whatevs. Anyhoo, on with The Other Hand (or is it Little Bee)? This book is one of those - you know - it's one of those stories where a tragic event occurs and the real story is how people's lives intertwine and fall apart and lump in a heap together afterwards. In this case the tragic event takes place on a Nigerian beach, where Sarah and her husband are white tourists enjoying a walk along the sand. In a few moments, they are faced with a choice: sacrifice a part of themselves to save the lives of two young Nigerian women, or leave them in the hands of the cruel and save themselves. My version of this book doesn't have a blurb on the back. Instead it says that the publishers \"don't want to spoil\" the book by saying too much - so they don't say anything at all. It's such a marketing ploy - I was skeptical when I read that line, and now that I've read the book to see what all the fuss is about, I'm still skeptical. Non-blurbed books should only be reserved for the rarest of circumstances, where (a) the book is so ludicrously plotted but brilliantly written that it doesn't deserve being 'boxed in' by its own blurb, or (b) where the book is such an old classic that everyone young and old knows a version of the story in their head (even those who haven't been taught to read). The Other Hand does not fit into either of these two categories, and I'm afraid that the book's mystery generated by a clever publishing scheme has only served to make me think of itas a greedy, money-making 'meh' book that to be frank, I've already forgot half of what I was going to write about it and this book review is feeling a bit of a chore - I wasn't passionate about this book at all. Perhaps I am being a little too harsh though. Its a tightly-wound story...it's small, and efficient, and there are some pretty turns of phrase. I wasn't overly bored... Chris Cleave is not without talent... and my version has a pretty sparkly orange cover.... Really, I can't quite put my finger on why exactly I'm not won over by this book. I can think of flaws that may contribute to my point of view, but nothing major that I can put my finger on. I think that perhaps, it may have something to do with this book not quite 'ringing true'. The event itself doesn't make a whole lot of sense. But again, I can't talk about it. The intertwining of Little Bee's perspective and Sarah's perspective is interesting for the first half of the book, but it gets old. I think I found it kind of indulgent in the way it props Little Bee's Afrikaan-learning-proper-Queen-English against Sarah's glamorous sensible westernised personality, as if it's a book geared especially for middle-class women pretending they know how a Nigerian woman might think, and feeling better about themselves by showing empathy for Little Bee. Actually, I've got the perfect way of explaining it - it's a book that would have a ready home on Oprah, I imagine. And that aint really a compliment - because these last 10 years or so Oprah has dug herself a hole of appealing to white middle-class women and in doing so has turned herself into one of them. It's a bit of a shame really all round...It's just so hard to explain why I get these feelings without spoiling the book. So I'll keep what needs to be kept secret, secret. You're owed that much. I realise this is a totally higgledy-piggledy book review that could be very confusing but look at what I have to work with, people! A story that can't be spoiled and either way fails to live up to expectations! It's not really as bad as I may it seem - I'm just a bit furious with the publishers, really. It's not Chris Cleave's fault they made a boo-boo just to cash in. Wow, harsh, Aimee, at least the author tried to write an awesome literary novel, eh? eh? I feel a headache coming on... 2 stars for The Other Hand. ...more This is a book you should buy and not borrow from the library. Just to reward the author for such an amazing and exhilarating experience. Its as much like watching a film as it reading a book because the writing is so extraordinarily good (and clever). And this review is so dry because the author wants nothing of his book revealed. \"The magic is in the way the story unfolds,\" he's said, and yes, it is. And I am sooo going to enjoy hand-selling people this book in my shop. I will have so many hap This is a book you should buy and not borrow from the library. Just to reward the author for such an amazing and exhilarating experience. Its as much like watching a film as it reading a book because the writing is so extraordinarily good (and clever). And this review is so dry because the author wants nothing of his book revealed. \"The magic is in the way the story unfolds,\" he's said, and yes, it is. And I am sooo going to enjoy hand-selling people this book in my shop. I will have so many happy customers. ...more This book was nothing more than ok. Good read but would recommend other books before it. The synopsis was a lot more exciting than it should have been. 5\u2605+ \u201cMost days I wish I was a British pound coin instead of an African girl. Everyone would be pleased to see me coming. Maybe I would visit with you for the weekend and then suddenly, because I am fickle like that, I would visit with the man from the corner shop instead\u2014but you would not be sad because you would be eating a cinnamon bun, or drinking a cold Coca Cola from the can, and you would never think of me again . . . It can cross deserts and oceans and leave the sound of gunfire and the bi 5\u2605+ \u201cMost days I wish I was a British pound coin instead of an African girl. Everyone would be pleased to see me coming. Maybe I would visit with you for the weekend and then suddenly, because I am fickle like that, I would visit with the man from the corner shop instead\u2014but you would not be sad because you would be eating a cinnamon bun, or drinking a cold Coca Cola from the can, and you would never think of me again . . . It can cross deserts and oceans and leave the sound of gunfire and the bitter smell of burning thatch behind.\u201d How can you resist an opening like that? First paragraph of the book, and we see how this girl\u2019s imagination helps her escape her world. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever read a book with so much light-hearted, warm humour and so much tragedy, often in the same sentence. Little Bee is the younger of two Nigerian sisters fleeing the horrors of the Nigerian oil wars. They hide and change their names, so they won\u2019t be identified as coming from a particular village. Big sister becomes Kindness, while little sister becomes Little Bee. Little Bee is determined to speak and behave \u201cEnglish\u201d so she can blend in later. \u201cSee how nicely a British pound talks? It speaks with the voice of Queen Elizabeth the Second of England. Her face is stamped upon it, and sometimes when I look very closely I can see her lips moving. I hold her up to my ear. What is she saying? \u2018Put me down this minute, young lady, or I shall call my guards.\u2019 \" British couple Andrew and Sarah O\u2019Rourke, are holiday in Nigeria and cross paths with the sisters on a beach. What follows is the subject of the story, told sometimes by Little Bee and sometimes by Sarah O\u2019Rourke, the wife. The story goes back and forth, often revolving around four-year old Charlie O\u2019Rourke, who is obsessed with Batman (wears only alternating Batman costumes) and saving people from The Baddies. What is so simple and straight-forward for Charlie is complicated for his parents, each of them changed in different ways from their time in Nigeria. Charlie thinks like Little Bee. He sees baddies everywhere and hides in the garden pretending he\u2019s in the jungle. Bee, however, compares her childhood games with those of English kids. \u201cThey hide in the gap between the washing machine and the refrigerator and they make believe they are in the jungle, with green snakes and monkeys all around them. Me and my sister, we used to hide in a gap in the jungle, with green snakes and monkeys all around us, and make believe that we had a washing machine and a refrigerator. \" When Little Bee seems so constantly wary of baddies, Sarah says: \u201cYou\u2019re young, Bee. You don\u2019t know how the world works yet. All you\u2019ve seen is trouble, so you think trouble is all you\u2019re going to get.\u201d \u201cYou have seen trouble too, Sarah. You are making a mistake if you think it is unusual. I am telling you, trouble is like the ocean. It covers two thirds of the world.\u201d Sarah doesn\u2019t know it, but Bee lives her life by always looking for the quickest exit . . . exit from life. The easiest way to kill herself quickly if she has to\u2014and she assumes that she may have to at any time. She notes sharp objects, high bridges, ropes, poison cleansers and the like--the way professional drivers always know where their nearest escape route is in case of an accident. She\u2019s not depressed. She knows there are fates worse than death, and she intends to avoid suffering one. The beach scenes are horrific, as the book jacket says, and it's terrifying to think that the world doesn't seem to be improving. A character tells another that giving ten percent (of your income) \u201cis the cost of doing business. Ten per cent buys you a stable world to get on with your life in. Here, safe in the West. That\u2019s the way to think of it. If everyone gave ten per cent, we wouldn\u2019t need to give asylum.\u201d Nothing about compassion, mercy, empathy, KINDNESS. Just money. The so-called Developed World needs to develop some moral backbone. If we did an audit of it, we\u2019d say \u201cShould Do Better.\u201d Superb, stunning, moving, heart-breaking. And extremely readable. People question why fiction is important. This is why. ...more The first three pages of this book deserve 5 stars. Absolutely. Little Bee is an excellent narrator and they were positively engaging/hilarious/touching/curiosity-inducing. After that, the story gets pretty heavy. That's not a problem, but it struck me as a uncomfortably incongruous with the cutesy publisher's note on the front book jacket flap. It's got a coy little tone with some stylized all-caps, teasing about spoiling for the story for us, the readers, who are about to go on a magnificent ad The first three pages of this book deserve 5 stars. Absolutely. Little Bee is an excellent narrator and they were positively engaging/hilarious/touching/curiosity-inducing. After that, the story gets pretty heavy. That's not a problem, but it struck me as a uncomfortably incongruous with the cutesy publisher's note on the front book jacket flap. It's got a coy little tone with some stylized all-caps, teasing about spoiling for the story for us, the readers, who are about to go on a magnificent adventure, within these very pages! The characters are well-drawn, complex and flawed; and the plot is simple but anchored in questions of morals versus convenience, courage versus fear, first world questions versus third world realities, childhood versus adulthood, true identity versus concealing aliases. I moved through it pretty quickly, as the characters constantly mention situations before the reader learns about them, I would rush ahead impatient to understand the back story. There are no pleasant back stories. It all works though, as does the convention of alternating narrators between Sarah Summers-O'Rourke and Little Bee. Little Bee had such a precise voice, such perfect phrasing, such a frank way of speaking. I was also a pretty big fan of Cleave's pitch-perfect Jamaican accent for Yevette. An interesting read, definitely an excellent way of juxtaposing two cultures and examining the limbo between survival and legality. If you aren't interested in the weight of this story, at least read the first two pages when you are browsing in the bookstore or the library. Just don't expect the book to go on in that vein. ...more After reading Incendiary a while back I have been eagerly awaiting the publication of this book. It did not disappoint me. I started reading on Saturday morning and from page one I was totally hooked. I found it really difficult to put down, even when cooking. So many books around in my local book shop are \"Summer Reads\" so this was a refreshing change. It's the story of Little Bee, a teenage refugee from Nigeria, and <---C>Sarah O'Rourke</---C> a British magazine editor. Horror makes their worlds collide and After reading Incendiary a while back I have been eagerly awaiting the publication of this book. It did not disappoint me. I started reading on Saturday morning and from page one I was totally hooked. I found it really difficult to put down, even when cooking. So many books around in my local book shop are \"Summer Reads\" so this was a refreshing change. It's the story of Little Bee, a teenage refugee from Nigeria, and Sarah O'Rourke a British magazine editor. Horror makes their worlds collide and from that moment on, none of their lives will be the same again. The story switches between narratives in the voice of Little Bee and Sarah. The two central characters are very realistic, and Cleave has captured the personalities of the people around them with such striking honest detail and humour it makes an emotional roller-coaster of a read. This is the kind of book which makes you want to send your family out for the day, lock the doors, take the phone of the hook and just sit and read until you are finished. ...more I loved the first half of the book, but had a hard time getting through the second half. Little Bee, a Nigerian girl who escaped her country after a series of horrific killings, ends up in England. The story follows Little Bee from her time in Nigeria to her difficult transition to England; as well as a British couple, whose lives become deeply entwined with Little Bee. A lot of the effectiveness of the book comes from the plot twists, so I'll leave the plot description at that. In my opinion, t I loved the first half of the book, but had a hard time getting through the second half. Little Bee, a Nigerian girl who escaped her country after a series of horrific killings, ends up in England. The story follows Little Bee from her time in Nigeria to her difficult transition to England; as well as a British couple, whose lives become deeply entwined with Little Bee. A lot of the effectiveness of the book comes from the plot twists, so I'll leave the plot description at that. In my opinion, the most effective parts of this book were those told in Little Bee's voice, particularly in the first half of the novel. The cadence of her narrative was captivating. I found the second half of the book pretty dang boring. Didn't care much for it at all. If it weren't for the second half of the book, I'd definitely recommend the book. ...more A slice of literary brilliance sprinkled with what I can only think of as literary cow pies. I can't figure out why Chris Cleave created so many beautifully written passages and then with the same keystrokes inserted such a horribly rendered and completely unnecessary character as Laurence into his story. I felt this juxtaposition of brilliantly imagined and horribly depicted (and or completely unbelievable) wove its way through the entire novel. I wonder if some of what I thought was ridiculous A slice of literary brilliance sprinkled with what I can only think of as literary cow pies. I can't figure out why Chris Cleave created so many beautifully written passages and then with the same keystrokes inserted such a horribly rendered and completely unnecessary character as Laurence into his story. I felt this juxtaposition of brilliantly imagined and horribly depicted (and or completely unbelievable) wove its way through the entire novel. I wonder if some of what I thought was ridiculous and unrealistic was supposed to be humorous? I loved Little Bee but I did not feel any affection for the adults in this novel and once they were introduced things went down hill dramatically, what came afterward seemed like it was written by a different author. There were far too many events that made no sense and did nothing but detract from the story. My biggest complaint about this book is the potential that was wasted. If Cleave had stayed focused on Little Bee and had written the entire book in the same vein as the first few chapters narrated in her voice, this could have been a completely brilliant novel. Sadly I think I have to mark this as \"most-disappointing for 2011\" and admit that I feel ripped off even though I borrowed it from the library. ...more I didn't really enjoy this book. The vague synopsis on the back of the book built the story up to be something that it eventually did not live up to. On it's back cover, Cleave promises the reader that the way his story unfolds will be \"magic\" and that you will want to tell all your friends about it. While he is partially right in the fact that I do want to share my thoughts with all my [goodreads] friends, it is not for the reason that he thinks I should. The way that Cleave crafted his story f I didn't really enjoy this book. The vague synopsis on the back of the book built the story up to be something that it eventually did not live up to. On it's back cover, Cleave promises the reader that the way his story unfolds will be \"magic\" and that you will want to tell all your friends about it. While he is partially right in the fact that I do want to share my thoughts with all my [goodreads] friends, it is not for the reason that he thinks I should. The way that Cleave crafted his story feels superficial to me. (view spoiler) [Little Bee's role as a Nigerian refugee and illegal immigrant to London feels true to form, but the roles of Sarah and Lawrence feel contrived and enhanced as if Cleave only inserted them to fill out the obligatory role of Good First World Samaritans who have been burdened with saving a poor African girl in an attempt to clear their own conscious about living a good carefree life in a somewhat peaceful nation. While I admire Sarah for all she tries to do for Little Bee at the novel's end, I just don't buy her reasons for doing so. (hide spoiler) ] Cleave's novel actually reads like a sensational, feel good film where the white woman goes out of her way just to save the black girl in hopes of expunging her own guilt of having lived a carefree life. I wanted to feel the magic that Cleave promised, yet I walked away from this book feeling like I had already seen the film version of Little Bee's story and it was 10x better. This definitely isn't a book I'd read again. The story was a good idea in theory, but the author handled his subject poorly and his ending fell flat. The only scene that lived up to expectation was the beach scene and I won't spoil that for any possible readers of Little Bee. ...more This book made me so anxious and upset I found myself yelling at the characters. Especially Lawrence. \"Lawrence!\" I screamed, banging the book down on the table. \"You little sh*t! If you hurt her I swear! I swear, Lawrence!\" Luckily, I was alone at this time. Otherwise, people might have been concerned. LITTLE BEE is not a relaxing read. Like so many books I have been reading lately, this book is about TRUTH. And the truth is painful. The truth is anxiety inducing. The truth is that life is not a This book made me so anxious and upset I found myself yelling at the characters. Especially Lawrence. \"Lawrence!\" I screamed, banging the book down on the table. \"You little sh*t! If you hurt her I swear! I swear, Lawrence!\" Luckily, I was alone at this time. Otherwise, people might have been concerned. LITTLE BEE is not a relaxing read. Like so many books I have been reading lately, this book is about TRUTH. And the truth is painful. The truth is anxiety inducing. The truth is that life is not always happy and that Bad Things Happen. Little Bee is a Nigerian illegal living in the UK. This story chronicles the ups and downs of her life. Fleeing through the jungle from men who want to rape and kill her and her sister. Pleading with a white couple to save them. Listening to her sister get brutally gang-raped and then beaten to death, and after that listening to her get torn apart by dogs that are eaten her corpse. Stowing away on a ship where the captain hides her in his cabin so that his men \"don't get any ideas.\" Being held in a prison, sorry - detainment center, for two years where if she wants a maxi-pad she's got to fill out a form to get one. Then being set free only because a girl she knows let a guard \"do whatever he wanted to her\" on at least 4 different occasions. Things continue from there. This isn't a happy story. Despite not being a happy story, despite all the trauma and tragedy Little Bee experiences, she keeps her sense of humor and her sense of wonder through it all. This adds a little hope and happiness to this tale of darkness and despair. That is what makes it bearable. Cleave's decision to include a prominent 4-year-old boy character does a lot to remind the reader that there is indeed goodness and happiness in the world. Cleave chooses to narrate this book from two different female perspectives. I said this when I reviewed INCENDIARY and I'm saying it again: Cleave writes women flawlessly. The other narrator is Sarah, a woman who's slowly learning and coming to terms with the fact that the world is a nightmarish place. She's the character who is changing and growing in this novel, coming face to face with evil and choosing whether to fight it or ignore it. This brutal reality that we are presented with - the brutal reality that Little Bee has been conditioned to live in is shocking to most 1st-World readers. Everywhere she goes, the first thing she does is figure out how to kill herself in case things go south. She understands perfectly that there are a lot of things worse than death. Sometimes suicide is the answer. Sometimes death is blessed relief. So many women - millions of women - live this kind of life. In a world where men are evil, men are rapists. Where being pretty is a curse because they'll notice you - not being pretty is a curse because then you are worthless. Life is pain. Life has no value. They'll kill your children and laugh while doing it. We close our eyes to these women's reality - and it's a current, modern reality - and in this book Cleave drags this painful truth into the light. Difficult book to read, difficult reality to face - but I think Cleave's poetic writing and slight hints of occasional humor and hope really help not only to soften to blow, but to drive it home. ...more Chris Cleave is nothing if not ambitious. In Little Bee , he not only takes on the issues of immigration, globalization, imperialism, and personal responsibility, but does so in the voices of two unforgettable women, one a solidly middle-class English fashion magazine editor, the other a 16-year-old Nigerian refugee. As you might imagine, Cleave doesn't deal with these issues in a pat way, nor does he allow his readers to do so. And although parts of this book are very, very difficult to read -- Chris Cleave is nothing if not ambitious. In Little Bee , he not only takes on the issues of immigration, globalization, imperialism, and personal responsibility, but does so in the voices of two unforgettable women, one a solidly middle-class English fashion magazine editor, the other a 16-year-old Nigerian refugee. As you might imagine, Cleave doesn't deal with these issues in a pat way, nor does he allow his readers to do so. And although parts of this book are very, very difficult to read -- all the more so because they seem to come from out of the blue -- they don't seem cheap or manipulative. Like a lot of readers, I'm trying to figure out whether the coy flap copy for this book, which practically tosses its curls before the readers' eyes and says that it can't give away a single plot point lest the whole book be ruined, is a brilliant bit of misdirection or a piece of cutesy-poo marketing gone awry. Being the cynic that I am, my money is on the former. The copy makes the book sound like it's going to be one of those faux-whimsical Oprah-type tales, a la The Secret Life of Bees or Before Women Had Wings -- you know, the old \"two timid women find each other and before you know it they've engaged in an orgy of personal growth like you wouldn't believe and become their bestest best selves.\" It's not, but I'm guessing some marketer figured he knew what sells. I also can't figure out why the American publisher didn't release the book under its original British title, The Other Hand , which is a far better title, thematically and otherwise, than Little Bee . ...more Waaaaay overrated! UGH, What can I say. I hated this book! If you want to read about the most depressing events of a human life than this one is for you. What an emotional downer this book is. It does nothing but show you the evil that can be present in human nature from extramarital affairs all the way to murder. The overall gist of the story is about a Nigerian refugee. Yes, it is a story that should be told, but I would rather read about just the facts in a news article than something I am reading for \"pleasure UGH, What can I say. I hated this book! If you want to read about the most depressing events of a human life than this one is for you. What an emotional downer this book is. It does nothing but show you the evil that can be present in human nature from extramarital affairs all the way to murder. The overall gist of the story is about a Nigerian refugee. Yes, it is a story that should be told, but I would rather read about just the facts in a news article than something I am reading for \"pleasure.\" When I read I don't need to be depressed about the future of our world and the deprivation of human nature. So why did I read it? For my book club and I should have put it down. I only kept on because I thought there might be a silver lining or happy ending somewhere. Really, do not read this book unless you want to be totally depressed. There is not one shred of happiness in this book. And please, what mother in her right mind would take her 4 year old son to war torn Nigeria and bribe the military so she could go galavanting through the country with a criminal. Clearly it was not written by a women, to say nothing of a mother. ...more This story fills your heart so full in so many ways. Should be shared and loved. \u201cI was carrying two cargoes. Yes, one of them was horror, but the other one was hope.\u201d The writing of Chris Cleave is lyrical, descriptive, humorous and memorable. It flows in the narrative and carries the reader easily through the story. That moves this from a 3 star to a 4 star book for me. The story of Little Bee is a harsh and sad one. Her life goes from simple innocence, happy enough, to a horrible nightmare all in the blink of an eye. This makes her much wiser than her few years and much \u201cI was carrying two cargoes. Yes, one of them was horror, but the other one was hope.\u201d The writing of Chris Cleave is lyrical, descriptive, humorous and memorable. It flows in the narrative and carries the reader easily through the story. That moves this from a 3 star to a 4 star book for me. The story of Little Bee is a harsh and sad one. Her life goes from simple innocence, happy enough, to a horrible nightmare all in the blink of an eye. This makes her much wiser than her few years and much sooner than she should have been. This story is how she ends up in England, a refugee of Nigeria, struggling to find a safe place and emerge from her past. I think if Cleave had told this story all from Little Bees eyes, I would have enjoyed it more. I found her matter of fact and very honest in a refreshing way. When he switched to the character of Sarah, I felt the story became disjointed and I was weighed down by all her baggage. I found her to be somewhat selfish in how she thought of her role in others lives. These women are thrown together at one point, and Little Bee's life if forever changed.....Sarah though, on the surface, goes on much the same as before. When things come full circle and they are together again, it is Little Bee who brings changes to Sarah. The innocence and humor Cleave uses with \"Batman/Charlie\" is a delight. So many lessons and feelings are expressed to him by the other characters and thus shared with the reader. He was a nice balance to all the horrible aspects of this story. \"At some point you just have to turn around and face your life head on.\" I think Little Bee did just that. ...more This is a book that compelled me to keep reading and had me thinking about it when I wasn't reading it. So that is why I gave it 3 stars -- books that can do that are worth it. My main issue is that the characters seemed to be not real, but metaphors for problems in society and I feel like the end message was that the problems facing refugees and aslyees are bigger than the average citizen and it isn't worth it to get involved -- we cannot change the country dynamics and the bureacracy challenge This is a book that compelled me to keep reading and had me thinking about it when I wasn't reading it. So that is why I gave it 3 stars -- books that can do that are worth it. My main issue is that the characters seemed to be not real, but metaphors for problems in society and I feel like the end message was that the problems facing refugees and aslyees are bigger than the average citizen and it isn't worth it to get involved -- we cannot change the country dynamics and the bureacracy challenges in our own country are too immense to work around. If we get too involved we will only get hurt. Everyday western citizens can't handle the reality and don't want to handle the reality of what is going on. And if they do know -- they are useless to help. That I feel is the author's message. It is a male author and he writes in the first person for two female characters. I don't think he convincingly wrote as a woman would think/feel -- or as a mother would think/feel. But I think this may be a harsh judgment, b/c I don't criticize female authors for failing to paint a realistic man. But I was just not buying that this was how a mother thinks (I am a mother of 4 kids). I was not buying that this is how a grieving wife feels/acts. The ending was horrible. What was the point? ...more I'm sort of bouncing back and forth between 2 and 3. I need time to think about it. *** I've decided to give it 2 1/2, because it was pretty good - and that's how I'm rating it. Not in the sense that \"I liked it\" as much as in the sense that \"It was pretty good\". Overall, I liked the chapters that were narrated by Little Bee better than the chapters narrated by Sarah. Little Bee seemed more real - her chapters had humor and pathos - were touching and heart-breaking and funny. I liked when she descri I'm sort of bouncing back and forth between 2 and 3. I need time to think about it. *** I've decided to give it 2 1/2, because it was pretty good - and that's how I'm rating it. Not in the sense that \"I liked it\" as much as in the sense that \"It was pretty good\". Overall, I liked the chapters that were narrated by Little Bee better than the chapters narrated by Sarah. Little Bee seemed more real - her chapters had humor and pathos - were touching and heart-breaking and funny. I liked when she described how our language is like sorcery, because of how slippery it is. I liked how she talked about scars and sad stories being beautiful, because it meant that a person was alive. And I liked how she would stop and tell us how she would have to explain things to the girls back home, because of the way we take certain understandings for granted. Sarah seemed less real of a person to me, though. Everyone on the British side of things seemed more like stand-ins for certain views and representations of types. I hated Lawrence, and was ambivalent towards dislike for Andrew. But everything in Sarah's chapters seemed unnatural - the dialogue, the situations, the way people reacted and her/their motivations... it was all rather stilted and awkard. A bit heavy-handed in certain aspects, I suppose, but not horribly so. Even as I started liking and sympathizing more with Sarah as the story progressed, I still didn't really like the chapters that were from her perspective - so I think it has to do more with the writing and less with the character. Anyway - I'm left feeling like the situation in the book, the way that refugees are treated and the conditions they are left in, is terrible, but without any real sense that there's anything I can do about it. And I'm not really sure what I think of the end. (view spoiler) [I wanted a happier ending. I know that's probably a little unrealistic, but oh well. Or, failing happy, I would've liked for it to be more heart-wrenching. The way that it was, with the focus on Charlie - maybe it's my thing about kids, but it just didn't work for me. (hide spoiler) ] Oh well. At the end of the day there's one lesson that I've learned myself that I feel might be reflected a bit in the book, and that's this: No one can change the world. But we might be able to improve our little part of it in small but important ways. ...more I wasn't sure what to expect from this book as the back cover blurb is particularly vague. I was pleasantly surprised to discover a book that dealt with some really significant issues, such as refugees, in such an approachable and readable way. The central characters were interesting and well written and despite the heavy themes, the book was quite humorous at times. I liked that the connections between characters were complex - not just simple stereotypes of 'supportive best friend' 'emotionally I wasn't sure what to expect from this book as the back cover blurb is particularly vague. I was pleasantly surprised to discover a book that dealt with some really significant issues, such as refugees, in such an approachable and readable way. The central characters were interesting and well written and despite the heavy themes, the book was quite humorous at times. I liked that the connections between characters were complex - not just simple stereotypes of 'supportive best friend' 'emotionally distant husband' etc. It's really hard to explain why this book was so amazing without giving away the story, but I would highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys reading books with some substance. The great thing about the book is that although it has some serious themes, it was still easy and enjoyable to read. Published in the US with the title Little Bee. I have posted a more detailed review of The Other Hand at Suite101.com. ...more I'm still not really sure what I think of this book. The story is gripping and as I was reading it I felt that it had a lot of potential. However, by the last page I was still waiting for this potential to be fulfilled. I found the characters rather hard to empathise with, which is perhaps the reason that I wasn't as moved by the story as I thought I should be. Overall, I think this book dealt with the issue of refuges in modern-day England effectively and sensitively, but that's as far as it goe I'm still not really sure what I think of this book. The story is gripping and as I was reading it I felt that it had a lot of potential. However, by the last page I was still waiting for this potential to be fulfilled. I found the characters rather hard to empathise with, which is perhaps the reason that I wasn't as moved by the story as I thought I should be. Overall, I think this book dealt with the issue of refuges in modern-day England effectively and sensitively, but that's as far as it goes. I enjoyed reading it but in no way does it justify the intriguing blurb that made me pick it up in the first place. That said, I appreciate that something was necessary to make the book stand out on the shelves and I'm sure the blurb did its job well! ...more This isn't something I would normally pick up. In the past, I've stuck pretty close to my safe genres; fantasy, historical fiction, suspense/horror. I don't usually pick up the popular \"it\" books, or they \"issues\" books, so to speak. But I've been trying to branch out, and aside from that, I was sort of \"forced\" to read this one. But I'm glad for that! As it turned out, I actually enjoyed it. I had never heard of this book before I was told I was being forced to read it, and I had no idea it was This isn't something I would normally pick up. In the past, I've stuck pretty close to my safe genres; fantasy, historical fiction, suspense/horror. I don't usually pick up the popular \"it\" books, or they \"issues\" books, so to speak. But I've been trying to branch out, and aside from that, I was sort of \"forced\" to read this one. But I'm glad for that! As it turned out, I actually enjoyed it. I had never heard of this book before I was told I was being forced to read it, and I had no idea it was popular until I tried to get a hold of a copy through the library and saw how high in demand it was. Eventually I did get a copy, and I read it in about two and a half days. I enjoyed the writing style, it made me feel connected to the characters right from square one. Love them or hate them, I felt like I knew them. And I liked the way this book made me feel. Actually, that's sort of a misleading statement.... This book was downright depressing at certain points, and I'm certainly not saying that I like feeling depressed... I liked that it was able to affect my emotions at all in the first place, that it was able to make me feel at all. The story has a definite moral, but I'll refrain from laying out exactly what that was. This is the sort of book where it's best to go in blind, take what you get, and use it however works best for you. 3.5 stars. I'm not sure who I would recommend it to.. It seems like it would be a hit or miss type of book. The writing style will either pull you in or push you away; the characters will either touch you or fall flat. I can't say what it is that makes it a hit with one person and a miss with another, but it was a hit for me. ...more", "Title": "Little Bee"},
