{"Comments": "Once upon a time, three boys were fighting in the street when two men claiming to be plainclothes cops show up. One kid gets in the car,<---M> the others stay put</---M>, and their lives will never be the same. Decades later, Dave Boyle, the kid who got into the car, is accused of killing the daughter of Jimmy Marcus, one of the other boys, and the third boy has grown up to be Sean Devine, the cop in charge of the case. Did Boyle do it? And if he didn't, can Sean find the real killer? Yeah, 2013 was supposed Once upon a time, three boys were fighting in the street when two men claiming to be plainclothes cops show up. One kid gets in the car, the others stay put, and their lives will never be the same. Decades later, Dave Boyle, the kid who got into the car, is accused of killing the daughter of Jimmy Marcus, one of the other boys, and the third boy has grown up to be Sean Devine, the cop in charge of the case. Did Boyle do it? And if he didn't, can Sean find the real killer? Yeah, 2013 was supposed to be the year of <---A>Dennis Lehane</---A> for me. It probably would have been had I not discovered George Pelecanos . However, I'm back aboard the Lehane Train now and quite pleased. While <+++>Mystic River</+++> is normally classified as a thriller, it's so much more than that, an exploration of growing up and what a traumatic childhood event can blossom into. <+++>Mystic River</+++> is the tale of three Boston boys who grew up to be very different Boston men. Dave Boyle has drifted from job to job, never quite managing to bury his abduction experience. Jimmy Marcus is a former career criminal who has gone straight and become a family man. And Sean Devine is a cop with a wife he hasn't seen in over a year and a child he's not sure is his. From the beginning, Lehane kept the waters sufficiently muddy to hold my interest. While I knew I was supposed to assume Dave Boyle killed Katie Marcus, Lehane had me changing my opinion quite a few times. None of the three leads are very simple characters. Dave's got his childhood baggage but still tries to be the best husband and father he can be. Jimmy was once a criminal and is still a hard man but is a loving family man. Sean is a supercop but his marriage is in ruins and he's coming off a suspension for something very petty. Once Sean is on the case, the book becomes very hard to put down, like it's been duct-taped to your hands. The mystery, unlike a lot of them these days, is solvable and I guessed who the killer was about 75% of the way through, even though I got the motive wrong. The writing is everything I came to expect from the Kenzie and Gennaro series and then some. I think this is the book where Dennis Lehane went from \"Good Thriller Writer\" to simply \"Great Writer.<---F>\" Five stars</---F>. I suppose I'll track down the movie now. ...more Every adult human being has the chance to choose a personally favored path of life (<---B>considering it isn't predeterminated by illnesses, accidents etc.</---B>), but the general direction this path heads towards will usually already be marked during childhood: This might be the idea which provoked Dennis Lehane to write about the abysms of humanity and the fateful consequences one single deed might release to weigh heavily upon your conscience for the rest of your life - even if it is something as simple Every adult human being has the chance to choose a personally favored path of life (considering it isn't predeterminated by illnesses, accidents etc.), but the general direction this path heads towards will usually already be marked during childhood: This might be the idea which provoked Dennis Lehane to write about the abysms of humanity and the fateful consequences one single deed might release to weigh heavily upon your conscience for the rest of your life - even if it is something as simple as not entering a certain car while you are a kid. Lehane might be more well-known because of the successful movie adaption with Leonardo DiCaprio and Ben Kingsley of his 2003 thriller Shutter Island , but when it comes to exploring human minds in their deepest psychological profundities, Mystic River is where the author truly shines. This novel (which has also been adapted into a movie starring Tim Robbins, Sean Penn and Kevin Bacon) focuses on three young childhood friends - Sean, Jimmy and Dave - whose friendship was changed forever when one of the boys was pulled into a strange car and had to go through something which could not be worse as an incisive childhood experience. About twenty years later, they have all grown into men with their own more or less intact families ( although you might as well scratch the \"more or\" part ). The story gets going when one of the friend's daughters is brutally murdered, another one of them starts to investigate the case as a police detective and the third friend soon turns into one of the suspects himself - with very strong evidence pointing towards him. This is no easy thriller to get through; with his elaborate descriptions of a Boston crime scene and the complex plot twists and dynamics between the relationships, Lehane keeps the intellectual niveau on a high level throughout the entire course of the novel as he explores failing marriages, bursting families and shocking revelations. As he did with \"Shutter Island\", he once again managed to challenge my personal perception of what human minds can be capable of. It might be fiction, but the author managed to write it in such a convincing way as if it was a nightmare come true. Dennis Lehane refrains from fast pace and instead relies on extensively detailed descriptions, painting a vivid picture filled with a dark atmosphere. This made it sometimes easy to put the book down again, yet all the time the book included enough potential to prompt the reader to return to reading. You may call the novel a classic 'whodunnit' tale, but it's more than that - so much more. The mystery/thriller genre is a very difficult one for an author to emerge out of the masses of authors who claim to glue their readers' eyes to their books, and yet many readers keep returning to this genre out of the hope to hold a true masterpiece in their hands one day. Mystic River might not be a masterpiece, but it's still everything you can possibly look for as a reader of crime fiction. It wasn't my first Lehane novel, and it definitely won't be my last either. ...more Just before picking this book up - my first Lehane (it won't be my last) - I came across a quote by him illuminating the working-class, blue-collar nature of noir: In Greek tragedy, they fall from great heights. In noir, they fall from the curb. I love this quote. It slices right to the heart of who we are reading about, and even why we are reading about them. In Mystic River , Lehane is shooting from both barrels; he intuitively knows who he is writing about and where -- the gritty, depressed, w Just before picking this book up - my first Lehane (it won't be my last) - I came across a quote by him illuminating the working-class, blue-collar nature of noir: In Greek tragedy, they fall from great heights. In noir, they fall from the curb. I love this quote. It slices right to the heart of who we are reading about, and even why we are reading about them. In Mystic River , Lehane is shooting from both barrels; he intuitively knows who he is writing about and where -- the gritty, depressed, working-class neighborhoods of South Boston and the largely white, blue-collar families who live there. These are residents bound to one another when not by blood, then by loyalties forged from childhood friendships and the kinship that comes from growing up in the same neighborhood. A shared history, a sense of community, no matter how co-dependent, damaging or predatory. Lehane's characters are so vivid and three-dimensional they sigh and bleed across the pages. But you won't love them. They are beyond flawed, and you could even argue beyond redemption. Lehane is not writing about beauty and love or hope and healing. Lehane is painting a portrait of despair and guilt. His characters are damaged goods in many ways, with painful histories that have consumed them with a slow-burning rage. The love Jimmy Marcus has for his eldest daughter Katie is primal, almost animalistic in its fierceness. When a savage beating and shooting violently rips her away from him, Jimmy vows to see her killer brought to justice, one way or another. Who could have killed Katie Marcus? Nineteen years old, sweet and non-threatening, a good friend, a loving sister, working part-time in her father's neighborhood corner store. When Jimmy's childhood friend Sean is brought in to lead the investigation, there are more questions than answers to be found. It doesn't take long however, before Sean and his senior partner Whitey begin looking hard at Dave Boyle - another childhood friend from the neighborhood with dark secrets of his own. The handling of the mystery here, the construction, the pacing, the clues and final reveal, it's all flawlessly done. My only regret reading this novel is that I had seen the film first. While already knowing who killed Katie did not diminish my enjoyment, I can only imagine the sheer thrill this book delivers at the moment of climax if you didn't know. I found the women in this story to be at least as interesting as the men, if not more so. (view spoiler) [While I could sympathize with Celeste's confusion and doubt about Dave, I questioned her motives for going to Jimmy with her suspicions. Why go to the father? Why not the police? What did she think was going to happen? She knew the rules of the neighborhood. Did she really imagine Jimmy would not act, unequivocally and ruthlessly? She signed Dave's death warrant the moment she decided to tell Jimmy what she thought she knew. She got her husband killed and unraveled her own life, perhaps even her own sanity, in one careless impulse. Jimmy's wife Annabeth is ruthless in her own way, thinking only of her own family and status in the neighborhood. Her acceptance of Jimmy's violence, her pride in it, is practically sociopathic. Her husband won't find the cure for cancer, but dammit, he looks after his own. He does what needs to be done, like a King that rules over his realm. Her support is icky but oh so very real. Her disdain of Celeste's weakness, and her betrayal of her husband, more revealing of character than any other act or a thousand words. (hide spoiler) ] This is a story that starts with tragedy and ends tragically. It is immensely engrossing and immeasurably rewarding. I did not just love it, I lived it . A word on the audiobook: There is an abridged version available out there with a very poor reader. Avoid that one. I listened to the unabridged version and it is fantastic. The reader's voice is strong and he carries the Boston accent nicely without it overpowering the story. ...more Writing this review as I sit here watching Sean Penn discover the brutal death of his daughter, kicking myself once again because this is another book I should of read a long time ago. Just glad in a way that I also hadn't seen the film and blown a powerfully compelling ending that managed to stay just out of my grasp until two pages before the big reveal. Mystic River is a riveting character driven crime thriller about three boys, one abducted and forever scarred with what he endured, all grown Writing this review as I sit here watching Sean Penn discover the brutal death of his daughter, kicking myself once again because this is another book I should of read a long time ago. Just glad in a way that I also hadn't seen the film and blown a powerfully compelling ending that managed to stay just out of my grasp until two pages before the big reveal. Mystic River is a riveting character driven crime thriller about three boys, one abducted and forever scarred with what he endured, all grown up but with distinctly different futures. Shaped by circumstance, three very different characters, surviving life with wildly opposing ideals but nonetheless each one totally gripping. Jimmy Marcus's daughter goes out one night and never makes it home, tragically killed, devastation closely follows and the hunt for a killer that cleverly shifts focus leaving deep consequences in its wake. \"I know in my soul I contributed to my child\u2019s death. I can feel it. But I don\u2019t know how.\" Sean Devine, now a detective and hauled back to his old neighbourhood to investigate the murder, old friends, old memories and lies occupy his thoughts, the truth just out of reach. 'Sean felt a sudden lurch in the morning, a shifting in the softness of it.' And Dave Boyle, abducted as a child, both an intense sadness and madness, never far away, following him round hand in hand with a wretched betrayal. 'And he\u2019d grown up into this tall, smart, handsome guy with a voice you could listen to all night and eyes that seemed to peel you away in layers.' Top marks for an absolutely gripping plot, powerful and compelling characters, and delightful prose. One of the best, simple as. I don\u2019t normally swear in my reviews but this deserves a fucking big round of applause and I\u2019ll be visiting Mr Lehane\u2019s back catalogue very soon and the film is nowhere near as good as the read IMHO. Also posted at http://paulnelson.booklikes.com/post/... ...more I read this masterpiece a while ago before I joined Goodreads and I've been contemplating posting a review because it's on the top of my favorites list. But for a while I wasn't sure I could say anything that could do justice to this remarkable book. Not only is it Dennis Lehane's greatest book (and that's saying a lot), this modern tragedy sets the standard for all contemporary crime dramas and thrillers. It's one of the only books that I would consider near perfect and I would recommend it to I read this masterpiece a while ago before I joined Goodreads and I've been contemplating posting a review because it's on the top of my favorites list. But for a while I wasn't sure I could say anything that could do justice to this remarkable book. Not only is it Dennis Lehane's greatest book (and that's saying a lot), this modern tragedy sets the standard for all contemporary crime dramas and thrillers. It's one of the only books that I would consider near perfect and I would recommend it to anyone. It's the novel that stuck with me the longest after reading it, and if I was forced to name a top favorite book, this would probably be it. This gush of praise might not be much of a review...but hey, just go read it. ...more Just finished watching the movie and while it was remarkable , I felt the book was better. Passenger on the USS Dave for life. I'm just saying there are threads, okay? Threads in our lives. You pull one, and everything else gets affected. Say it rained in Dallas and so Kennedy didn't ride in a convertible. Stalin stayed in the seminary. Say you and me, Sean, say we got in that car with Dave Boyle. A horrible murder is commited in a blue-collar neighborhood of Boston. Dennis Lehane goes far deeper than your regular crime writer into the motives and the conditions that led to the crime. He concentrates on the personaliti I'm just saying there are threads, okay? Threads in our lives. You pull one, and everything else gets affected. Say it rained in Dallas and so Kennedy didn't ride in a convertible. Stalin stayed in the seminary. Say you and me, Sean, say we got in that car with Dave Boyle. A horrible murder is commited in a blue-collar neighborhood of Boston. Dennis Lehane goes far deeper than your regular crime writer into the motives and the conditions that led to the crime. He concentrates on the personalities of the people involved, on the secrets hidden deep under the faces they show to the world and how those secrets bleed into one another and destroy both the victim the perpetrator. To find the murderer, Lehane follows and unravels threads more than twenty-five years old, introducing three young boys forming an unlikely friendship (the parents are from wide apart social classes). Sean Devine is self-assured and a little arrogant, basking in his parents relative affluence; Jimmy Marcus is impulsive and dangerous, a product of a dysfunctional family; Dave Boyle is needy and fawning, annoying in his clinging to the other two boys. The friendship is cut short when a couple of strangers impersonating police officers kidnap Dave. Dave eventually escapes the child molesters (all this is part of the prologue, so no spoilers yet), but neither him nor the other two boys will ever forget the moment that Fate struck and changed their destiny. Because decades later, the beautiful, innocent daughter of Jimmy Marcus is found dead in a city park. Becasue Sean is the police officer tasked with investigating the murder. And because Dave is among the last persons to see the girl alive, and he is lying about his alibi. The three former friends have grown apart long ago, but the echoes of the childhood trauma is still haunting them and may reflect in the way they deal with the current crime. The novel is not a fast-paced one, preferring instead the police procedural approach of meticulously gathering evidence and interviewing witnesses, taking into account the relationships and the histories of the whole neighborhood. It stands out for me most of all through the powerful evocation of the turmoil and rage visited on the relatives of the victim, the ones who have to deal with the aftermath of the crime, with the funeral arrangements, with the emptiness left behind by the missing girl, with the need to continue living for the sake of spouses and children and friends. And often the worst thing wasn't the victims - they were dead, after all, and beyond any more pain. The worst thing was those who's loved them and survived them. Often the walking dead from now on, shell-shocked, hearts ruptured, stumbling through the remainder of their lives without anything left inside of them but blood and organs, impervious to pain, having learned nothing except that the worst things did, in fact sometimes happen. Still, the novel is not simply a psychological study of trauma and works well enough as a mystery, throwing sufficient doubt about the main suspect to keep the reader guessing until almost the last page. I did get an inkling about the identity of the culprit early on, but it was deftly done, in a blink-and-you-miss-it couple of clues. Anyway, there is more to the story than finding the identity of the murderer. There are the decisions taken by the survivors, mourning walking hand in hand with the thirst for revenge. There is a closure to be found for the car incident from twenty-five years ago. There is the neighborhood that endures and absorbs the pain and learns to go on. It is difficult to explain how each of the three friends dealt with the past without spoiling major events later on, but I will give it a try : Jimmy has chosen the path of a criminal career, cut up short not so much by prison time, but by he need to take care of his orphaned daughter. Sean is struggling with depression, a common hazard in a policeman, aggravated by a separation from his wife. Dave has the worst problems, but is he solely to blame for his schizophrenic condition or is the society who ignored his need for counselling and support partly responsible? I have talked mostly about boys who become men, but the women in the novel are as important and often stronger than their husbands or fathers or boyfriends. They can either raise them above themselves or bury them deeper in trouble. Their suffering is moe keen and more bitter than the men's, who find escape either in drink or in violence. Insecure Celeste Boyle, the absent Lauren Devine and especially rock-hard Annabeth Marcus will stand out and be counted as active players in the unfolding drama. More than the story, I was captivated by the talent of the author to write about the human element of the crime. Fingerprints, blood analysis, balistics, interrogation techniques are all important, but the resolution turns on the personalities and hidden identities of the actors. Jimmy is all about control: Lotta things are in my blood. Doesn't mean they have to come out. Sean is all about his failed marriage and ensuing depression: Lately, though, he's just been tired in general. Tired of people. Tired of books and TV and the nightly news and songs on the radio that sounded exactly like other songs on the radio he'd heard years before and hadn't liked much in the first place. He was tired of his clothes and tired of his hair and tired of other people's clothes and other people's hair. He was tired of wishing things made sense. Tired of office politics and who was screwing who, both figuratively and otherwise. He'd gotten to a point where he was pretty sure he'd heard everything anyone had to say on any given subject and so it seemed he spent his days listening to old recordings of things that hadn't seemed fresh the first time he's heard them. and Dave is all about the fight between the after-effects of his childhood trauma and his efforts to lead a normal family life. Unaware, then, how short futures could be. How quick they could disappear, leave you with nothing but a long-ass present that held no surprises, no reason for hope, nothing but days that bled into one another with so little impact that another year was over and the calendar page in the kitchen was still stuck on March. These passages I have selected give, I hope an idea of the empathy and involvement with the subject demonstrated by Lehane, and also showcase his strong, evocative prose. the author. I was not aware of his biographical details, and actually wondered why is the novel titled \"Mystic River\"? Turns out Lehane grew up in a similar neighborhood of Boston as the one described in the novel, and that the place has as much to do with the shaping of the destinies of the three friends as the event from their childhood. The social separation between the poor Flats and the affluent Point, the criminal traditions of the Irish and Italian gangs operating in the city, the mostly Catholic upbringing of the majority of the inhabitants, the recent gentrification trend that brings in yuppies from the suburbs and pushes the old tenants out into even more insalubrious parts of the city - all of these factors are reflected in the hearts and soul of the locals. You came back here because you'd built this village, you knew its dangers and its pleasures, and most important, nothing that happened here surprised you. There was a logic to the corruption and the bloodbaths and the bar fights and the stickball games and the Saturday-morning lovemaking. No one else saw the logic, and that was the point. No one else was welcome here. I have recently read a comment about how many genre books are similar in style and content and have limited appeal outside a circle of dedicated fans. But that we also keep reading them, digging through the drudge in the hope that one day we will come across a true gem, a story so well written and so moving that it will transcend genre limitations and touch directly the core of our beings, of our beliefs and our dreams. Dennis Lehane did this for me with \"Mystic River\" and I will go back to his other novels, hoping they are at least as good as the first one I tried. ...more If you've seen Martin Scorsese's THE DEPARTED, then you are familiar with the setting of this book. A poor, predominately white neighborhood (in Boston) where (male) children grow up to be either criminals or cops. Violence is a part of life, and the vicious cycles of abuse and crime are never ending. Jimmy, Sean, and Dave grew up together. When they are 11-years-old, a \"cop\" car pulls up and busts them for fighting in the street. Sean and Jimmy, the tougher ones, lie and avoid getting in the car If you've seen Martin Scorsese's THE DEPARTED, then you are familiar with the setting of this book. A poor, predominately white neighborhood (in Boston) where (male) children grow up to be either criminals or cops. Violence is a part of life, and the vicious cycles of abuse and crime are never ending. Jimmy, Sean, and Dave grew up together. When they are 11-years-old, a \"cop\" car pulls up and busts them for fighting in the street. Sean and Jimmy, the tougher ones, lie and avoid getting in the car. Dave, the weak link, goes off with the \"cops.\" Of course, they weren't cops at all, but pedophiles cruising around looking for their next victim. Everyone thinks Dave is dead, never to be seen again. But he is a clever little boy, and escapes the pedophiles. Reunited with his family after being gone four whole days, Dave spends the rest of his life wondering if should ever have come back. No one treats him the same, either refusing to talk about what happened to him or taunting him, calling him \"faggot\" and bringing up his \"ordeal\" as often as possible in order to make his life a living hell. From then on he's marked. He's no longer Dave, he's the kid who was kidnapped and raped, and everyone thinks he'll become a pedophile too. Dave valiantly fights against all this. He becomes a great baseball player, moves away, gets married, has a son named Michael, and tries to live a normal life. But he can never escape his past. Every time he sees someone from the old neighborhood he knows they are looking at him intensely. Looking for the slightest sign of damage. Jimmy, on the other hand, was a successful criminal mastermind for many years until his associate squealed on him and he was put away. While in prison, his wife Marita raised their daughter Katie. But after more than a year and a half in prison, Marita develops skin cancer and dies in a matter of months. When Jimmy gets out of the slam he finds it's just his daughter - Katie, age 5, a stranger to him - and him against the world. He does his best to be a good father to Katie. He goes straight, runs a corner store, gets re-married to Annabeth, has two more daughters. He puts his life of crime behind him. Sean, the last of the trio, takes the high road and becomes a cop. His marriage is in shambles, his wife only calling him from God-knows-where and not saying anything. He's desperate for her to come home, even though she's pregnant with another man's child. These three men, once childhood best friends, are now living in separate worlds. But a violent, gruesome murder brings them all together again. Katie, Jimmy's 19-year-old daughter and the person he loves most in the world, is found dead in the park with two gunshot wounds and also beaten severely. Who did this? Why? Who will find the guilty one first - the cops? Or Jimmy, the ex-criminal father bent on revenge and twisted by grief? With suspicious characters and threads of possibilities strung through every chapter, Lehane weaves a wonderfully complex mystery that will leave you guessing until the very end. I liked the character development in this novel. Lehane does an amazing job of putting you right in the middle of these people's lives. I really felt like these characters were 3D, living, breathing people. They were complex and fleshed-out. Lehane's dialogue was also realistic and fast-paced without being unrealistically clever. He also did a great job of leaving the reader wondering who-did-it until the very end. I liked the tough-as-nails, take-no-shit female characters who were the backbone of the neighborhood and fiercely protective of their men and their children. I didn't like how depressing this novel was. It was pretty grim, with a bad outcome for a majority of the characters. It left me feeling grimy and depressed, and that's not what I want from a book. Also, I didn't understand why (view spoiler) [ Celeste betrayed Dave - and to Jimmy of all people. Why did she do that? It didn't make much sense to me. (hide spoiler) ] All in all, a good mystery book. It's a little dark for my tastes, but still good - because Lehane doesn't get into descriptions of torture, or rape, or killing. All that stuff happens \"off-page\" and I really appreciate that. SO MUCH. However, the book is still pretty grim - one message being \"you can't escape your fate\" and showing how violence and abuse cycle endlessly through generations and generations, despite a person's best efforts at change and redemption. ...more You didn\u2019t belong. Don\u2019t you get it? That\u2019s all a neighborhood is: a place where people who belong together live. All others need not fuckin\u2019 apply. Clocking in five of his books over the past few weeks, I've begun to feel like I'm living in a sort of Dennis Lehane -land \u2014 an ineluctably dark place that is made all the more so by its striking resemblance to our own. While Sophocles and Aeschylus rarely used blue-collar neighborhoods of Boston as the backdrop of their works,* in Mystic River You didn\u2019t belong. Don\u2019t you get it? That\u2019s all a neighborhood is: a place where people who belong together live. All others need not fuckin\u2019 apply. Clocking in five of his books over the past few weeks, I've begun to feel like I'm living in a sort of Dennis Lehane -land \u2014 an ineluctably dark place that is made all the more so by its striking resemblance to our own. While Sophocles and Aeschylus rarely used blue-collar neighborhoods of Boston as the backdrop of their works,* in Mystic River Lehane has created something that bears a marked resemblance to a classic tragedy . I don't remember the precise meanings of terms like stasima or mimesis , so I won't be offering a disquisition on any of these structural elements. However, the fates and furies that pursue Lehane's characters are relentless and (I suppose this is what makes things so tragic) inescapable. The likes of Justice or any of the other cardinal virtues are cast off\u2014confined to the fantasy worlds in which they prevail, as Lehane brings you deeper and deeper into a reality where innocents are often most likely to be hurt, and winners rarely exist in the end. All of that being said, Mystic River now ranks among my favorite books. It's not a feel good story, but one that has the power to move you deeply and leave you shaken. And, in a world such as ours, everyone needs a good shake from time to time. ______________________________________ * As I haven't read them exhaustively, I can't say for sure that there isn't something akin to Sisyphus Takes Southie out there. ...more Steeped as it is in such uplifting topics as childhood sex abuse; repressed pedophilic desire; betrayal; broken friendships; broken people; doomed love; the pain of loss; brutal, senseless murder; the stifling nature of the stoic, emotionally-contained masculine ideal; and tragically misguided attempts at retribution and revenge, Mystic River is an enjoyable and deeply satisfying read. Dennis Lehane paints a vivid, beautifully romantic-yet-depressing portrait of various lives in an economically Steeped as it is in such uplifting topics as childhood sex abuse; repressed pedophilic desire; betrayal; broken friendships; broken people; doomed love; the pain of loss; brutal, senseless murder; the stifling nature of the stoic, emotionally-contained masculine ideal; and tragically misguided attempts at retribution and revenge, Mystic River is an enjoyable and deeply satisfying read. Dennis Lehane paints a vivid, beautifully romantic-yet-depressing portrait of various lives in an economically depressed (fictitious) Boston neighborhood on the cusp of gentrification. Lehane's just a terrific, pretense-free writer. His descriptions and dialogue are graceful and memorable and his characters -- the primary and peripheral -- are as nuanced and developed as can be expected in a 400 page novel that seeks to describe so many. My only regret is having seen the movie first. For me, it's actually a toss up as to which is better (heresy, I know). Despite written physical descriptions to the contrary, I steadfastly maintained mental images of the characters as they appeared in the movie because they were, you know, better (Sean Penn as a blond? I don't think so). At other times, the written dialogue failed to resonate the way the edited spoken dialogue had. On the flip side, the novel's third person narrative allowed for a much greater development of characters' inner experiences and as a result, certain motivations were much clearer and significantly more disturbing. ...more A powerhouse! I can't very well say I have become a fan of Dennis Lehane because, after all, this is the first of his work that I have read, but I will certainly be reading more of his work ( I already have purchased 'Shutter Island')and if it is anything like Mystic River, then yeah, count me in as a huge Lehane fan. This book was about as close to perfect as you can get. The story drew me in; I felt like I was there, mingling with the locals, I could feel the atmosphere of the city and I could A powerhouse! I can't very well say I have become a fan of Dennis Lehane because, after all, this is the first of his work that I have read, but I will certainly be reading more of his work ( I already have purchased 'Shutter Island')and if it is anything like Mystic River, then yeah, count me in as a huge Lehane fan. This book was about as close to perfect as you can get. The story drew me in; I felt like I was there, mingling with the locals, I could feel the atmosphere of the city and I could feel the emotions and the lives of the characters in the story. This was, edge of your seat, suspenseful, gritty, sad, powerful...so many layers. This book was just under 600 pages and there was not a single occasion where I became bored or felt the temptation to skim. (Yeah, ya'll know what I'm talking about) A king in his streets internally being crucified on his own sword called Karma, a successful detective trying not to drown in his lost faith in humanity, and the boy...the boy who climbed in the back seat of a car that smelled like apples. This one is going on my favorites shelf and I highly recommend it to all. ...more \u201cHappiness comes in moments, & then it's gone until the next time. Could be years. But sadness settles it.\u201d Another Lehane book under my belt and I enjoyed it immensely, the book was an elevated crime fiction book in which the character study and the amazing writing balanced well with the plot. Unlike Shutter Island which I highly love and probably one of his best works this one carried more depth & felt more than just your typical \u201csolving a crime story\u201d \u201cLife isn't happily eve \u201cHappiness comes in moments, & then it's gone until the next time. Could be years. But sadness settles it.\u201d Another Lehane book under my belt and I enjoyed it immensely, the book was an elevated crime fiction book in which the character study and the amazing writing balanced well with the plot. Unlike Shutter Island which I highly love and probably one of his best works this one carried more depth & felt more than just your typical \u201csolving a crime story\u201d \u201cLife isn't happily ever after... It's work. The person you love is rarely worthy of how big your love is. Because no one is worthy of that and maybe no one deserves that burden of it, either. You'll be let down. You'll be disappointed and have your trust broken and have a lot of real sucky days. You lose more than you win. You hate the person you love as much as you love him. But you roll up your sleeves and work - at everything - because that's what growing older is.\u201d The overall story follows\u00a0 three young lads ( Jimmy. Sean & Dave ) during a young age while they were playing outside one of them got kidnapped and the other two were left behind as this event took place. The incident ended up affecting the majority of their lives and years later a tragedy will occur that will bring them together and open up a can of worms from the past. \u201cIt was the lack of a clear reason that got to her most, & it stabbed her that a relationship that had once seemed unbreakable could slip apart so easily due to nothing more than time, family turmoil, & growth spurts.\u201d I would honestly say that the writing took me by surprise because the author transported me into the individual thoughts with such rich language and descriptions that you felt sympathetic towards some characters and understood their decisions even though you won\u2019t necessarily agree with them. I hated some of the characters to be honest and I was like\u2026 A character like Jimmy was so complicated and had so many problems that I was just pissed at his action but I asked myself if such an incident happened to me how would I react and that is what made this book for me. On closing the last page you would see the flaws in the characters and it made me question my humanity and my decisions when faced with certain problems. It was tragic and disturbing and even though I felt like the outcome of the mystery wasn\u2019t as shocking as his other book he still made me see the story in a\u00a0 unique way. \u201cThere are threads in our lives. You pull one, and everything else gets affected.\u201d ...more Devastating. While reading this book I entered into a world of which I know nothing about. Place is very important in Mystic River and having grown up on the West Coast I was at a disadvantage. But the themes? Universal. I had in mind the movie Good Will Hunting . Those characters had it rough. South Boston, working class, hard lives. That moment where Robin Williams explains Will Hunting to Professor Lambeau: ... And why does he hang out with those retarded gorillas, as you called them? Because an Devastating. While reading this book I entered into a world of which I know nothing about. Place is very important in Mystic River and having grown up on the West Coast I was at a disadvantage. But the themes? Universal. I had in mind the movie Good Will Hunting . Those characters had it rough. South Boston, working class, hard lives. That moment where Robin Williams explains Will Hunting to Professor Lambeau: ... And why does he hang out with those retarded gorillas, as you called them? Because any one of them, if he asked them to, would take a fucking bat to your head, okay? It's called loyalty. Loyalty. An investigation. Old ties. Retribution. I am pretty late to this party so there is not much more I can add. In the end, you do not read this book for the mystery- I figured out \"who did it\" less than half way through the book. Read it as a character study, read it for the relationships (the scene where Sean meets up in a bar with his dad and they talk about the day of the kidnapping is one of the best moments in a book I have ever read), read it (even) for the over-the-top man book that it is. This is a first rate read for this genre. ...more Ainda n\u00e3o li muitos thrillers psicol\u00f3gicos, mas com a leitura deste Mystic River (e que leitura! bastante perturbadora, levando-me a pousar o livro algumas vezes), \u00e9 algo que devo rectificar. Muito antes do final, torna-se f\u00e1cil inferir o que se passou, o autor permite que assim seja, porque sabe que o leitor est\u00e1 completamente investido nos personagens e na maneira como eles v\u00e3o lidar com os factos que lhes s\u00e3o apresentados. Dennis Lehane \u00e9 um escritor a seguir! So intense! One of the best mystery/thriller books I have ever read. Not just a detective novel but also psychological. The characters are portrayed superbly. 5 stars. Twenty five years after Sean Devine, Jimmy Marcus and Dave Boyle had their boyhood friendship torn apart by an abduction of one of the boys, in the street where they were playing, a murder has brought them all together again. Sean is now a homicide detective, married to Lauren, but separated, with a daughter he hadn\u2019t seen yet\u2026..and when Jimmy\u2019s nineteen year old daughter Katie, is murdered in the early hours of a Sunday morning, Sean is assigned to the case. He is just back to work from a weeks Twenty five years after Sean Devine, Jimmy Marcus and Dave Boyle had their boyhood friendship torn apart by an abduction of one of the boys, in the street where they were playing, a murder has brought them all together again. Sean is now a homicide detective, married to Lauren, but separated, with a daughter he hadn\u2019t seen yet\u2026..and when Jimmy\u2019s nineteen year old daughter Katie, is murdered in the early hours of a Sunday morning, Sean is assigned to the case. He is just back to work from a weeks\u2019 suspension, and this wasn\u2019t a good case to start on! Jimmy had spent two years in prison when Katie was only small, and a few months before his release, his wife died from cancer. So it was just five year old Katie and himself against the world. He was determined to go straight, and be the best father he could be. When he married Annabeth, and then had two more daughters, he was very happy. His life had come full circle, with a wonderful wife, and 3 beautiful daughters. Dave married Celeste, who was Annabeth\u2019s cousin, though the families didn\u2019t see each other very often. Dave and Celeste had a son, Michael, who was the light of their lives. But Dave had some demons, and those demons didn\u2019t want him to be happy\u2026. The investigation into Katie\u2019s murder seemed to take on a life of its own, and with Jimmy and his bad-ass in-laws trying to take matters into their own hands, things could only get worse. The beginning of this novel was a little slow, but it picked up brilliantly, and I was able to see why the beginning needed to be there, for the characterisation of the story. The psychological twists of love and family, age old complexities that wouldn\u2019t let go, and the mystery of the thriller made this book a fascinating read. I would definitely recommend this novel. ...more Its movie won't tell you of the book's humor but this standalone was as witty and charming as his more well known series Una d\u00eda como cualquier otro, jugaban Sean, Jimmy y Dave en la calle; un auto se detuvo y dos hombres que se hicieron pasar por polic\u00edas, se llevaron a uno de ellos. A los cuatros d\u00edas Dave regres\u00f3, pero ya no era el mismo que se subi\u00f3 al auto, era otro Dave, un juguete roto. Veinticinco a\u00f1os despu\u00e9s, la hija de Jimmy es brutalmente asesinada, y aquellos ni\u00f1os, hoy hombres se reencuentran como polic\u00eda, un padre con pasado de maleante y un hombre d\u00e9bil y atormentado por los fantasmas del pasado y p Una d\u00eda como cualquier otro, jugaban Sean, Jimmy y Dave en la calle; un auto se detuvo y dos hombres que se hicieron pasar por polic\u00edas, se llevaron a uno de ellos. A los cuatros d\u00edas Dave regres\u00f3, pero ya no era el mismo que se subi\u00f3 al auto, era otro Dave, un juguete roto. Veinticinco a\u00f1os despu\u00e9s, la hija de Jimmy es brutalmente asesinada, y aquellos ni\u00f1os, hoy hombres se reencuentran como polic\u00eda, un padre con pasado de maleante y un hombre d\u00e9bil y atormentado por los fantasmas del pasado y presente. Un libro que habla de la amistad, la familia, y la p\u00e9rdida de la inocencia. Dennis Lehane crea una novela negra que no ser\u00e1 indiferente al lector y con sabia maestr\u00eda Clint Eastwood supo plasmar en cine. Im-per-di-ble! ...more Whoo, Mystic River is good, so good I stayed in the bath extra long to finish the last 50 pages, I didn\u2019t care how cold the water grew, I turned on the water as hot as it could go, which wasn\u2019t very hot because I\u2019d run all the hot water out, with my toe, and read this fucker to the last word. Mystic River was a blast, like a really fucking good, layered detective movie, except the movie version didn\u2019t come close to catching the book\u2019s nuances. Lehane\u2019s novel centers on the relationships between t Whoo, Mystic River is good, so good I stayed in the bath extra long to finish the last 50 pages, I didn\u2019t care how cold the water grew, I turned on the water as hot as it could go, which wasn\u2019t very hot because I\u2019d run all the hot water out, with my toe, and read this fucker to the last word. Mystic River was a blast, like a really fucking good, layered detective movie, except the movie version didn\u2019t come close to catching the book\u2019s nuances. Lehane\u2019s novel centers on the relationships between three kids who take different paths after sharing a tragic circumstance involving the abduction of the trio\u2019s weakest link. The setting, a working class neighborhood gentrifying as real estate prices rise, is a character in its own right; I\u2019m from one of these neighborhoods and hold a fierce pride of place and a strong bond with the kids (now in their forties) with whom I grew up. The unwritten rules, the intrinsic sense of terra firma, course through Mystic River as its own vibrant mythology. Lehane is at his best when he digs deep into the hopelessness and creates hope (not, like, you\u2019re gonna move to the suburbs hope, more like a stubborn survivalism) by removing artifice. After you wipe off your mind\u2019s mascara you can deal (or not deal) with whatever\u2019s tearing you down. Some choose \u201cbetter\u201d strategies than others, of course, but there\u2019s a deep sense of redemption amongst the darkness. Don\u2019t let me paint Mystic River as a feel-good story, though, as it sure as hell isn\u2019t. The characters are murky and complex. I\u2019d go with five stars except for an unnecessary subplot involving one character\u2019s ex-wife and the fact I figured out the criminal angle about halfway through the novel. That said, I\u2019d enthusiastically recommend Mystic River . Great fuckin\u2019 read. ...more An inchoate loaf, I dashed through this, a day before viewing the film. Both sucked. I had heard Lehane on NPR and I appreciated his vision. There are some things I should avoid. Consider me sage. 36th book read in 2016. Number 35 out of 528 on my all time book list. (2nd time read) I'm not a fan of Sean Penn, so I never even wanted to see this movie, and didn't even know that there was a book until after I'd read Lehane's other book Shutter Island , which I really enjoyed. So when I saw that my library had this on audio, I borrowed it, and have just now got around to listening to it. I think that this was a pretty good story, but it wasn't really as gut-wrenching or as horrifying as I'd expected it to be, knowing that it was about the murder of the daughter of one of the ma I'm not a fan of Sean Penn, so I never even wanted to see this movie, and didn't even know that there was a book until after I'd read Lehane's other book Shutter Island , which I really enjoyed. So when I saw that my library had this on audio, I borrowed it, and have just now got around to listening to it. I think that this was a pretty good story, but it wasn't really as gut-wrenching or as horrifying as I'd expected it to be, knowing that it was about the murder of the daughter of one of the main characters. I'd expected this to hit me like a freight-train and make me ache with Jimmy's grief... but it didn't. I don't know if it was the reader who took it out of that realm for me, or if it was just the kind of observant but distant tone of the writing, but it was something. I couldn't really identify with any of the characters, and in a story like this, one that deals with child abduction, molestation, murder, apathy, guilt and grief, that is crucial. The reader took a lot out of this book for me, I think. Often I would find myself focusing more on his voice than on the words he was saying or the story he was telling. The recording was very low to begin with, and the reader would speak softly for long stretches when the story would be dealing with internal thoughts or doubt or fear, so I really had to pay attention to catch everything. On top of that, his voice would sort of crack. I'm not sure if that was on purpose, or if it was just an unconscious side effect of his emotional involvement in the story, or if that's just his normal voice, but it was very distracting. But even MORE distracting was the way that he voiced the adolescents in the story. Every time he said \"It'll be cool!\" he sounded exactly like Beavis from Beavis & Butthead , and that is NOT cool. Not in a serious story like this one. I just kept waiting for him to go \"I AM CORNHOLIO!\" Really, it was that bad. I wanted to like this story as much as I liked Shutter Island. But this one just fell a little flat for me, and now I'm sorry that I listened to the audio rather than just reading it. It's one of those stories that you really need to dive in and feel, and I don't feel like I could do that. Too bad. :( ...more The only annotation I took during Mystic River is attached to this quote: \u201cLife wasn\u2019t a fucking movie, man, it was\u2026fucking life.\u201d I wrote, quite simply, \u201cthis author sucks at profundity and sentiment.\u201d Honestly I think that quotation and my brief comment could suffice for a whole review. What more do you need to know about this book after reading that clich\u00e9d \u2018life is a movie\u2019 line? But I will try to write more. This is a mediocre mystery novel in every sense of the word mediocre. The writing is The only annotation I took during Mystic River is attached to this quote: \u201cLife wasn\u2019t a fucking movie, man, it was\u2026fucking life.\u201d I wrote, quite simply, \u201cthis author sucks at profundity and sentiment.\u201d Honestly I think that quotation and my brief comment could suffice for a whole review. What more do you need to know about this book after reading that clich\u00e9d \u2018life is a movie\u2019 line? But I will try to write more. This is a mediocre mystery novel in every sense of the word mediocre. The writing is passable, just good enough not to distract you from the plot. The plot is, also, passable. The story never goes somewhere I didn\u2019t expect it to go, but it is logical and believable. The main characters\u2014three childhood friends united by a kidnapping in their youth and now a murder in adulthood\u2014are tolerably interesting. And yet they feel like archetypes, not breathing, hurting humans. In fact the weirdest bit is how the mystery doesn\u2019t truly set off until nearly midway through the book. Although the murder occurs in the early chapters, the author writes in a strange way that makes you think the murderer has already been fingered, which led me to wonder, \u201chm, what\u2019s the point then?\u201d Once the actual mystery aspect begins, it\u2019s easy to see who\u2019s guilty a good few steps ahead of the detectives. The novel has a distinctly masculine tone; it\u2019s emotionless and paint-by-numbers. There is nothing offensive about it but nothing to commend it either. Mystic River : a solidly mediocre mystery novel. ...more 4 stars - It was great. I loved it. A well written, suspenseful mystery that feels as though it will stick with me long after I finish reading it. This was the first novel I have read by Lehane, but will definitely be picking up another by him. (Has typical Northeastern dialect, so don't pick this one up if you are offended by the F* word.) ------------------------------------------- Favorite Quote: He\u2019d never wanted kids. Outside of priority boarding on an airline, he couldn\u2019t see the upside to th 4 stars - It was great. I loved it. A well written, suspenseful mystery that feels as though it will stick with me long after I finish reading it. This was the first novel I have read by Lehane, but will definitely be picking up another by him. (Has typical Northeastern dialect, so don't pick this one up if you are offended by the F* word.) ------------------------------------------- Favorite Quote: He\u2019d never wanted kids. Outside of priority boarding on an airline, he couldn\u2019t see the upside to them. First Sentence: When Sean Devine and Jimmy Marcus were kids, their fathers worked together at the Coleman Candy plant and carried the stench of warm chocolate back home with them. ...more Hmmmmsksuwgbtodqjk. I enjoyed this while I was reading it, but I'm definitely feeling underwhelmed overall. I guessed the ending at about halfway through and there were a few too many racial slurs in this for my liking. Blah. Gonna watch the movie tonight and I hope I'll like it more. Kh\u00f4ng kh\u00ed u \u00e1m, t\u0103m t\u1ed1i trong truy\u1ec7n ph\u01b0\u01a1ng \u0110\u00f4ng v\u00e0 ph\u01b0\u01a1ng T\u00e2y r\u1ea5t kh\u00e1c nhau nh\u01b0ng n\u1ebfu b\u1eaft m\u00ecnh ch\u1ec9 r\u00f5 r\u00f5 \u0111\u00edch danh n\u00f3 kh\u00e1c nhau ch\u1ed7 n\u00e0o nh\u01b0 ki\u1ec3u to\u00e1n h\u1ecdc 1+1=2 th\u00ec m\u00ecnh ch\u1ecbu :3 t\u1ea5t c\u1ea3 \u0111\u01a1n thu\u1ea7n l\u00e0 v\u1ea5n \u0111\u1ec1 v\u1ec1 c\u1ea3m gi\u00e1c, m\u00e0 c\u1ea3m gi\u00e1c th\u00ec r\u1ea5t kh\u00f3 \u0111\u1ec3 di\u1ec5n t\u1ea3 th\u00e0nh l\u1eddi :3 M\u00ecnh th\u00edch c\u00e1i kh\u00f4ng kh\u00ed n\u00e0y :3 M\u00ecnh t\u1ef1 nh\u1eadn l\u00e0 m\u00ecnh l\u00e0 1 \u0111\u1ed9c gi\u1ea3 ch\u1ea5m \u0111i\u1ec3m kh\u00e1 d\u1ec5 d\u00e3i :3 nh\u01b0ng cu\u1ed1n n\u00e0y c\u1ef1c k\u1ef3 \u0111\u00e1ng \u0111c 5 sao ko 1 ch\u00fat suy ngh\u0129. Tuy th\u1ebf m\u00ecnh tr\u1eeb b\u1edbt \u0111i 1 sao v\u00ec c\u00e2u chuy\u1ec7n c\u00f3 qu\u00e1 nhi\u1ec1u c\u1ea3nh gia \u0111\u00ecnh tan v\u1ee1 :| 1 FA l\u00f5i Kh\u00f4ng kh\u00ed u \u00e1m, t\u0103m t\u1ed1i trong truy\u1ec7n ph\u01b0\u01a1ng \u0110\u00f4ng v\u00e0 ph\u01b0\u01a1ng T\u00e2y r\u1ea5t kh\u00e1c nhau nh\u01b0ng n\u1ebfu b\u1eaft m\u00ecnh ch\u1ec9 r\u00f5 r\u00f5 \u0111\u00edch danh n\u00f3 kh\u00e1c nhau ch\u1ed7 n\u00e0o nh\u01b0 ki\u1ec3u to\u00e1n h\u1ecdc 1+1=2 th\u00ec m\u00ecnh ch\u1ecbu :3 t\u1ea5t c\u1ea3 \u0111\u01a1n thu\u1ea7n l\u00e0 v\u1ea5n \u0111\u1ec1 v\u1ec1 c\u1ea3m gi\u00e1c, m\u00e0 c\u1ea3m gi\u00e1c th\u00ec r\u1ea5t kh\u00f3 \u0111\u1ec3 di\u1ec5n t\u1ea3 th\u00e0nh l\u1eddi :3 M\u00ecnh th\u00edch c\u00e1i kh\u00f4ng kh\u00ed n\u00e0y :3 M\u00ecnh t\u1ef1 nh\u1eadn l\u00e0 m\u00ecnh l\u00e0 1 \u0111\u1ed9c gi\u1ea3 ch\u1ea5m \u0111i\u1ec3m kh\u00e1 d\u1ec5 d\u00e3i :3 nh\u01b0ng cu\u1ed1n n\u00e0y c\u1ef1c k\u1ef3 \u0111\u00e1ng \u0111c 5 sao ko 1 ch\u00fat suy ngh\u0129. Tuy th\u1ebf m\u00ecnh tr\u1eeb b\u1edbt \u0111i 1 sao v\u00ec c\u00e2u chuy\u1ec7n c\u00f3 qu\u00e1 nhi\u1ec1u c\u1ea3nh gia \u0111\u00ecnh tan v\u1ee1 :| 1 FA l\u00f5i \u0111\u1eddi nh\u01b0 m\u00ecnh ko th\u00edch \u0111i\u1ec1u \u1ea5y l\u1eafm D\u00f2ng S\u00f4ng K\u1ef3 B\u00ed r\u1ea5t hay v\u00e0 ai \u0111\u00f3 h\u00e3y h\u00fa l\u00ean, h\u00e3y h\u00e9t l\u00ean, h\u00e3y k\u00eau g\u1ecdi cho \u0110\u1ea3o Kinh Ho\u00e0ng \u0111c t\u00e1i b\u1ea3n \u0111i -_- ...more It was mixing psychological thriller. If you liked Shutter Island by same writer or influenced your interest in movies of Christopher Nolan, Utterly you would enjoy it. 3 Friends when they were kid,while playing around nearby home. One of kid got kidnapped, and it had shown that his mental order was found changed throughout his life. one of his friend had became a police detective,while the other owned Business, who became richest. Then, Some instances happened, shown some past nature of all three of It was mixing psychological thriller. If you liked Shutter Island by same writer or influenced your interest in movies of Christopher Nolan, Utterly you would enjoy it. 3 Friends when they were kid,while playing around nearby home. One of kid got kidnapped, and it had shown that his mental order was found changed throughout his life. one of his friend had became a police detective,while the other owned Business, who became richest. Then, Some instances happened, shown some past nature of all three of them. I dont want to say much, else you would lose suspense. Great thriller. ...more I finally got around to reading Mystic River about a month ago at the recommendation of a few Lehane fans, both diehard and casual, and it did not let me down. Even though I saw the movie years ago when it came out, the novel was still surprising (and better than the movie for offering much more nuance and inner psychological turmoil). (One problem with seeing a movie before reading the book is the inability to picture the characters as anything but as the actors that portrayed them. For example I finally got around to reading Mystic River about a month ago at the recommendation of a few Lehane fans, both diehard and casual, and it did not let me down. Even though I saw the movie years ago when it came out, the novel was still surprising (and better than the movie for offering much more nuance and inner psychological turmoil). (One problem with seeing a movie before reading the book is the inability to picture the characters as anything but as the actors that portrayed them. For example, I could not for the life of me picture Jimmy as light-haired or blond.) The basic plot revolves around three men who knew each other when they were children and drifted apart after a pinnacle incident changed their lives, one life in particular, terribly. 25 years later, yet another horrific event brings them all back together, with devastating consequences. The well-rounded characters are painted with depth and precision - well, as much precision as one can get when rendering psychological portraits. Sometimes Celeste found herself consciously trying to ignore a notion that it wasn't only the things in her life but her life, itself, that was not meant to have any weight or lasting impact, but was, in fact, programmed to break down at the first available opportunity so that its few usable parts could be recycled for someone else while the rest of her vanished. (123) The novel progresses with a sort of compassionate suspense, leading the reader to the inevitable outcome he or she knows is coming while still hoping otherwise. The entire story is steeped in foreboding. ...Jimmy felt that mean certainty again. You felt it in your soul, no place else. You felt the truth there sometimes--beyond logic--and you were usually right if it was the type of truth that was the exact kind you didn't want to face, weren't sure you could. That's what you tried to ignore, why you went to psychiatrists and spent too long in bars and numbed your brain in front of TV tubes00to hide from hard, ugly truths your soul recognized long before your mind caught up. (115) Lehane manages to capture what just about anyone might be capable of, given the right experiential contexts and scenarios. It reveals the depths of humanity's compassion/love and its horrific evil, and it explores the tenuous morality and honor most of us strive for in our own way. All in all, it was a fantastic read, and I look forward to reading more of Lehane's work. ...more The lives of three men who knew each other as kids \u2013 Sean, now a cop, Jimmy, a reformed criminal, and Dave, who was abducted and molested as a child and is now something of a loser \u2013 intersect when Jimmy\u2019s daughter is found brutally murdered. As Sean and Jimmy both investigate, secrets from all three men\u2019s lives are revealed. Did Dave\u2019s abduction turn him into a savage killer under his family-man nebbish exterior? Or did Jimmy\u2019s underworld enemies plan a revenge hit? Each revelation is more dest The lives of three men who knew each other as kids \u2013 Sean, now a cop, Jimmy, a reformed criminal, and Dave, who was abducted and molested as a child and is now something of a loser \u2013 intersect when Jimmy\u2019s daughter is found brutally murdered. As Sean and Jimmy both investigate, secrets from all three men\u2019s lives are revealed. Did Dave\u2019s abduction turn him into a savage killer under his family-man nebbish exterior? Or did Jimmy\u2019s underworld enemies plan a revenge hit? Each revelation is more destructive than the last. This is an amazing thriller, light-years ahead in writing quality than Lehane\u2019s debut A Drink Before the War . The plot unfolds slowly, and the fully-realized characters reveal themselves only gradually. There\u2019s no purple prose here, but methodical, meaningful sentences that paint realistic scenes and create mood. Still, the mystery, which kept me guessing, made me turn the pages frantically even as I savored the prose. It\u2019s a rich, melancholy and complex book. ...more My second time reading this novel...... 1. This book broke my heart all over again 2. This book is still 5 stars and will forever be one of my favorite novels 3. (view spoiler) [ I still despise with the fury of a thousand suns that bitch Celeste <\\spoiler> ******************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************* Amazing crime thriller. Completely broke my heart. (h My second time reading this novel...... 1. This book broke my heart all over again 2. This book is still 5 stars and will forever be one of my favorite novels 3. (view spoiler) [ I still despise with the fury of a thousand suns that bitch Celeste <\\spoiler> ******************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************* Amazing crime thriller. Completely broke my heart. (hide spoiler) ] ...more<---C>Dennis Lehane</---C>", "Title": "Mystic River"},
