{"Comments": "ok, so what is going to happen with the adrian/dimiti thing? Ugh,<---M> I miss Dimitri</---M>, but now Adrian is starting to grow on me .. and whyy didnt she show abe the note from tatiana? it woulda helped her out! This book is crap and Rose is a shameless gold-digging two-timer. Yes-yes, I am in a minority here, but it won't be the first time, nor the last. <+++>Spirit Bound</+++> is a bad book and I am contemplating to remove <---A>Richelle Mead</---A> from the list of the authors whose writing I care to follow. She can join my black list next to Beth Fantaskey and Maria V.<---F> Snyder </---F>. I was willing to give VA another chance after the disappointment Blood Promise was, but no more, this series is taking its path into oblivion along This book is crap and Rose is a shameless gold-digging two-timer. Yes-yes, I am in a minority here, but it won't be the first time, nor the last. <+++>Spirit Bound</+++> is a bad book and I am contemplating to remove Richelle Mead from the list of the authors whose writing I care to follow. She can join my black list next to Beth Fantaskey and Maria V. Snyder . I was willing to give VA another chance after the disappointment Blood Promise was, but no more, this series is taking its path into oblivion along with Richelle's Georgina Kincaid books. Mead just can't produce this mediocre mess, destroy her characters for the sake of cheap relationship melodrama and contrived \"love triangles\" and expect me to eat it up. No, thanks. Now, for the good. We are back to the cast of characters we came to love in the first 3 books - Eddie, Mia, Christian (As I expected reading Blood Promise , almost none of the million characters introduced in it are back, they have served their filler purpose and now dead and gone). Lissa comes into her own powers and is an admirable person now. Lissa's and Christian's relationship is back on track, which is great because I still have no idea why they broke up in the first place. Now, for the bad. Where do I start? How about, the only feelings Spirit Bound was able to elicit in me were boredom and mild annoyance? It is surprising how a book so action-packed can be so thoroughly boring. A lot of things happen in it - Rose takes her final pre-graduation trials, she steals important prison files, she breaks into a maximum security vamp prison, then there is a final altercation with Dimitri. But just like in the latest installment of Mead's Georgina Kincaid series, these events are glossed over, everything happens without much effort, there is no tension build-up before each and every one of them, the characters don't experience too many obstacles and therefore there is no real feeling of something important happening. Also, the highest point of the book happens at about 300-page mark. What comes after is just added-on drama that comes out of nowhere (is Richelle paid per page?). I just can't believe that this kind of story is what Mead had pre-planned for the series (according to her, she plots her series in advance). If I knew that's the shape the series would take, I wouldn't have bothered to read Vampire Academy . Another thing. What kind of relationship do Rose and Adrian have? It's not only unhealthy, it's just wrong. What Mead has achieved with it is that now I am all on board with Rose/Adrian pairing in the end (I used to be a Team Dimitri girl), but not because I like Adrian now, but because they would make a mighty good couple: Rose can fantasize about Dimitri while blood-whoring with Adrian (he seems to be just fine with his status of sloppy seconds/doormat) and Adrian can get drunk, continue spending his daddy's money and drag Rose around to parties to get a kick out of his parents and get Rose humiliated by Moroi snobs. What a pair they make! Then there is Rose's inconsistent behavior (one minute she wants to kill Dimitri, another she will do anything to save him; one moment she is in love with Dimitri, another she is getting it on with Adrian), deus-ex machina (Mikhail anyone? how convenient!); redundant conversations; masked party (what was the point?); miraculous prison break, etc., etc... I can go on and on with this tirade, but honestly, why? I think I am done with this series. For all I care, the entire cast of characters can die (well, they are sort of already dead to me due to the author's \"skillful treatment\") and I won't blink an eye. Why, oh why did I buy previous installments? There is no chance I will ever re-read them! ...more You know you've read a good book when you turn the final page so ready to start the next chapter but instead you find the acknowledgements and audibly scream \"WHAT THE FUCK?!\" heres for u people 2 enjoy found it Vampire Academy 5 - Spirit Bound Author -- -- Richelle Mead Chapter One Lissa stared at the letter in shock. But not as much shock as me. I memorized the letter the Dimitri wrote me. You forgot another lesson: Never turn your back until you know your enemy is dead. Looks like we'll have to go over the lesson again the next time I see you-which will be soon. Love, D The words were strapped into my head and they weren't moving anywhere. The words 'Which shall be soon' ke heres for u people 2 enjoy found it Vampire Academy 5 - Spirit Bound Author -- -- Richelle Mead Chapter One Lissa stared at the letter in shock. But not as much shock as me. I memorized the letter the Dimitri wrote me. You forgot another lesson: Never turn your back until you know your enemy is dead. Looks like we'll have to go over the lesson again the next time I see you-which will be soon. Love, D The words were strapped into my head and they weren't moving anywhere. The words 'Which shall be soon' kept on running through my head. Like a fish that's stuck on a hook. I paced around the room frantically, hoping for something to come to my head. The stake was still in my hands and was starting to get really sweaty. \"Rose! Are you even listening to me? I mean, what are we going to do!?\" She was freaking more then me. \"I don't want you to get hurt. Please. I need to help.\" Her words sunk into me. Giving me no choice but to bring her with me. My mind blew up with questions when my thought was decided. What if she got hurt? What about killed? What if her spirit starts to take over her again? What if starts to take over me? My head start to hurt. It isn't natural for a girl like me to think this much. \"Rose!\" She yelled in my face. \"Talk. Let it out. Dont keep everything inside. I know you dont want me to control you're life, but you have had that same facial expression for almost 2 minutes straight and thats not normal,\" She pleaded. \"You're scaring me.\" \"Jeez, what are you? My therapist\" I told her. She gave me a sincere smile since i changed my expression and spoke out loud. However, i still needed time to think, so i just sat on her bed and dug my face into my hands hoping for her to understand. Her response was to sit by me and wrap her arm around me. Close enough. I cant just bring Lissa alone. I would bring my mom. Maybe. But if i said even a word about leaving the academy again, she would lock me in my room. So mom is definitely off the list. Uhmmm, Christian? Nope, there fighting anyways and i do NOT want to lose my concentration if those two are arguing. Damn. I can think of anyone. I'll think of someone later. \"Alright, Liss, you can come with me,\" I told her. \"But, i don't want any questions about it right now. I'm still not even sure im going yet,\" Which i- we, probably are. \"But for now, i think im going to stay at the academy.\" \"Lissa's eyes flew up with a huge grin across her face like a 5 year old on Christmas morning. \"Oh, Rose! You have no idea on how much i missed you!\" She squealed \"Alright Liss,\" I laughed. \"I need to go and talk to Alberta and enroll into this hell school again.\" This going to just like when me and Lissa came back to St. Vladamir's before, except this time, I'm facing it alone. Right when i walked out of Lissa's door, eyes turned to me. Oh great, i thought to myself. And so it has begun. The walk to the office was totally akward. I saw some faces i knew stare at me. Like the girls that Lissa hung out with when she was going through her crazy phase with spirit. Then i saw Christian look at me like i was some ghost that came back from the grave. I mean, he was staring at me like when in movie some kid that randomly stares at you and then a second later they hit a wall or fall into a trash can, but no. There was no trash can. Making that expression stay on his face. But it wasn't just Christian, it was everyone. They were staring at me with same confused and surprised expression. Except for Mia. Mia was standing there with a grin slapped onto her face, she walked up to me, which everyone of her other friends were to scared to do. Mia's blond curls bounced as she walked toward me. Her grin was still placed on her face. Me and Mia have been on okay terms now ever since Mason died. I gues you could call us friends. \"Hey Rose, havent seen you in a while,\" She smiled. \"How has it been?\" \"Uhmm good?\" Me and Mia may not hate each other, but that doesn't mean i like her enough to trust her. She just gave me one of her smiles and left. Guess she had nothing to start gossip about. Good, i thought. When i reached Alberta's, old but, again, new office, she was sitting in her desk reading something on her computer. When she looked up and saw me she waved me to come and sit down. \"So Rose? Have you decieded yet?\" She smiled at me. \"Yup. I'm going to stay. But have you talked to anyone about putting me back in line to be Lissa's guardian?\" I asked. \"That's wonderful Rose,\" Then she smiled, and it wasn't one of her i-feel-bad-for-you smiles. \"And yes, i have Rose. I see that you are wearing you're hair up today and almost everyone has noticed the marks on you're neck. After seeing how well you do, they have decided to give you're position as Lissa's guardian back. However, you must remain at the academy.\" \"Really?! It was that easy!\" I cheered. \"Thank you SO much Alberta!\" With that i walked out of the room. Then i saw the perfect person to take with Lissa and I at the end of the year. I walked up to him on put on my sly grin. He was already smiling before i even started to walk. Spirit Bound -- chapter 2 \"Rose Hathaway is asking me, Adrian, to help assist her?\" Adrian smirked. My smile was long gone by now and this converstation was really starting to turn out more annoything then i thought. \"How many times do i have to go over this. You. Are. Coming. With. Me. And. Lissa. To. Kill. Dimitri.\" \"Wait. I thought you told Alberta, that you;re staying until you graduate?\" He questioned. \"I am.\" \"What if he gets here before you and Lissa graduate? He might bring a whole army by the sounds of what you did to him,\" He smirked. I ignored that second part not wanting to get the thought in my head. \"You think i havent considered that? It's just that i cant make Lissa leave. Not now at least.\" \"So, leave her behind.\" \"This coming from the guy who was actually begging me to come back to Lissa because i left her.\" He didnt have a reply. Good, i thought. \"Well, i said i would come,\" was his reply. \"Uhmm, no. No, you didnt say anything, yet,\" I smirked with a wink. That outta' get his attention. \"Hmm,\" He started. \"I guess that queen Tatina wouldnt mind a responsible adult taking care of her apperntice, So, i guess i should come.\" \"You? Responsible? Thats rich,\" I laughed. \"But good. You're a go.\" Lets just hope Dimitri doesnt come before then. He just smiled, excused himself and went to go find Lissa for there sunday lessons. Since i was going to be doing things like i used to, before i left i thought i should go to church. For old times sake. The walk to the chapel was worse to the walk to Albertas office. Maybe i should go to my room, i thought. No. Im going to have to have to face this sooner or later, and sooner is way better. People were going to ask how my journey went, so instead of telling them i tied up my hair into a bun showing my marks. The second my mark was visible, i heard people gasp. Jeez, wannabes, i thought to myself. \"When i finally reached the church, there was a new priest. Yet somehow, he knew me. \"Rose Hathaway,\" he smiled. \"It is a pleasure to meet you. I am Father Shay, please sit down.\" What happened to the other guy? He was pretty old, but i'll miss him. He gave me the first clue with Lissa and her powers and out bond. I forgot how boring curch was when Father Shay started talking. I remember why i went to church before, to see Lissa. And only Lissa. After another 10 minutes i just tuned my self out. The thing finished about an hour later. I nearly ran out of the chapel, happy to smell the fresh air not some strong vinegar type scent that the priest calls 'holy water'. The air was cool and moist, just the way it was in Russia. THat reminded me, I should call the Belikovs soon to let them know im okay. I might even call Abe because of the good mood im in. I walked back to the dorm, more eyes then before for some strange reason. People were still gasping and making a big fuss over my marks. I thankfully saw Lissa and ran over to her. \"Lissa! Lissa!\" I yelled at her. \"Wait for a second.\" Not that she needed to, i could catch up to her easily as a dhaphir. \"Rose! How was church?\" She laughed. I shot her the look of death, she remembered how much i hated church. Even though i forgot. \"You know how much i hate church.\" I shot back at her. \"Then why would you go?\" She mused. \"I dont know! People were staring and i saw the chapel and the old priest was so nice- what happened to him anyways?\" Curiosity popped in my head again. \"Rose, he was almost a 100 years old,\" Those eyes were deep and full of sorrow. \"And get this, the new preist is only human. He's not a moroi or dhampir or anyhing. Just human.\" Thats strange, i thought. Why would the academy higher a human priest? Why would a human priest want to talk about history thats not even from his own race? Why would he even want to talk about any history? Liss, probably missed the priest more then me. He helped us so much before we knew about spirit and when she was in the chapel but not in the attic, he would help her inderstand her powers from what he knew. \"That is strange, but he seemed nice enough,\" I said. \"Probably to scared to say anything to us.\" She laughed and rolled her eyes, \" Probably.\" ...more The good news is this: Spirit Bound is better than Blood Promises. Now let's all take a deep, satisfying breath of relief for that. But, there is bad news. The character of Rose, for me, takes a huge hit in this installment. Spirit Bound is fairly well written. The pacing is pretty good in that you don't have an opportunity to get bored. There are three points in the book that I really feel SHOULD have received far more attention and detail than they should: Rose's exam, Victor's rescue (What shall The good news is this: Spirit Bound is better than Blood Promises. Now let's all take a deep, satisfying breath of relief for that. But, there is bad news. The character of Rose, for me, takes a huge hit in this installment. Spirit Bound is fairly well written. The pacing is pretty good in that you don't have an opportunity to get bored. There are three points in the book that I really feel SHOULD have received far more attention and detail than they should: Rose's exam, Victor's rescue (What shall be hereto referred to from now on as the stupidest act performed by Rose. Ever.) and the battle with Dimitri. There are many things in this book that I wish hadn't received quite so much attention, such as parties, family visits and general faffing about (To use another strange colloquialism) Despite that, the book is great - except I'd really like to strangle Rose. Really. I wouldn't necessarily consider myself Team Dimitri or Team Adrian. I may lean towards Adrian a little but her obsession for Dimitri makes me think that she's nowhere near good enough for him and therefor should stay with Dimitri AND DIE! How am I supposed to respect a heroine who uses her boyfriend's credit card to pay for her trip to Vegas with friends? Not to mention the money that she had already swindled from him to finance her little trip through Serbia! Then what was with her running around loudly declaring her love to Dimitri WHILE SHE IS SUPPOSED TO BE DATING ADRIAN? Seriously. I just wanted to smack her. Dimitri wasn't much better. As my little computer gaming brother would say - Less QQ and more PewPew. Other characters were awesome and well written. it ended on the most horrible cliff hanger and I'm considering starting a petition to make it illegal for authors to finish on such a very tense note! Over all, it's a a much better read than Blood Promises. There were aspects of this book that annoyed me but I really enjoyed reading it regardless and now I'm eagerly awaiting the sixth and final installment. ...more 3.5 stars I can't believe I listened to this in one day. 500 pages has never gone by so fast. At this point in the vampire academy series, I'm kinda ready for it to be over. I think Rose is absolutely ridiculous and annoying and i'm so tired of her childish words and actions. The last book is sooo long but it seems like everything could've just wrapped up during this one so I have no clue what else there is to solve, which is irritating. Regardless, I can't resist an interesting vampire story and 3.5 stars I can't believe I listened to this in one day. 500 pages has never gone by so fast. At this point in the vampire academy series, I'm kinda ready for it to be over. I think Rose is absolutely ridiculous and annoying and i'm so tired of her childish words and actions. The last book is sooo long but it seems like everything could've just wrapped up during this one so I have no clue what else there is to solve, which is irritating. Regardless, I can't resist an interesting vampire story and I did enjoy this book better than the previous one. ...more So it took me exactly a year to read this lolol, and yet I still rate it a 4. Technically, it would be a 5, but since it took me a year, I feel it's only fare to rate it a 4. So this is me and the VA series: inhale read, something happens and I'm distracted, I watch the movie and that revives my need to read the rest of the books. Repeat. So here I am, finishing the 5th book and now I only have 1 more to go. I really love this series. These characters. Everything. This world is so fantastic, I l So it took me exactly a year to read this lolol, and yet I still rate it a 4. Technically, it would be a 5, but since it took me a year, I feel it's only fare to rate it a 4. So this is me and the VA series: inhale read, something happens and I'm distracted, I watch the movie and that revives my need to read the rest of the books. Repeat. So here I am, finishing the 5th book and now I only have 1 more to go. I really love this series. These characters. Everything. This world is so fantastic, I love learning more about it. And this was so beautifully written. So many great lines and scenes. ...more Just when you though Rose Hathaway had seen it all... This book came out. Rosemarie Hathaway, after loosing her true love, Dimitri, to an unforgivalbe evil, went to earn his honor in Russia. In doing so she met her father, another pair of spirt bound people, and many others she will unlikly ever forget, but also failed to deliver Dimitri to salvation. Now it's Rose's turn to be the prey....but can they save Dimitri before death arives first? It has finally happend Rose is a gaurdian. She is strong Just when you though Rose Hathaway had seen it all... This book came out. Rosemarie Hathaway, after loosing her true love, Dimitri, to an unforgivalbe evil, went to earn his honor in Russia. In doing so she met her father, another pair of spirt bound people, and many others she will unlikly ever forget, but also failed to deliver Dimitri to salvation. Now it's Rose's turn to be the prey....but can they save Dimitri before death arives first? It has finally happend Rose is a gaurdian. She is strong, fast, and furious. But will the one who broke her heart break her too? ...more This is how it all started: Once upon a time (or should I say four years ago) I was lying in my hospital bad (in a room that had no TV), unable to move, recovering from the car accident. At that time, books were the main entertaiment I had, which I didn't mind since I was a book lover. On that specific day, my friend came for a visit, bringing me a copy of Spirit Bound by Richelle Mead and a box of chocolate. I was already familiar with the fact that books can be fun, but what makes this book specia This is how it all started: Once upon a time (or should I say four years ago) I was lying in my hospital bad (in a room that had no TV), unable to move, recovering from the car accident. At that time, books were the main entertaiment I had, which I didn't mind since I was a book lover. On that specific day, my friend came for a visit, bringing me a copy of Spirit Bound by Richelle Mead and a box of chocolate. I was already familiar with the fact that books can be fun, but what makes this book special to me is that it showed me the fun on a whole new level. It was like I had a key that can open the door I wasn't even aware of. Suddenly, I had a new perspective when it comes to reading. I discovered book characters that got under my skin like no others before. And the plot... it was so interesting I just had to know what was going to happen'. I had to know how Rose and Dimitri will resolve what was going on between them, what will be with <---C>Vasilisa</---C> and Christian... and him... For the first time in my life, I fell in love with the book character: Adrian Ivashkov. I don't have to say it: My life was never the same again! And the best part: realization that there are countless worlds that I have yet to discover, many characters that are waiting for me to hang out with them, zillion adventures that I still have to go on. ...and that is how my love for YA genre began. ...more I really hope that Dimitri can be saved. I have a feeling Adrian and Dimitri are half brothers. I heard there will be a spin off of the series. Richelle mead couldn't say who the characters are because it would say who lives or dies and rose would have walk in parts. So obviously Rose lives and I hope Adrian will use spirit to save Dimitri. I think Adrian will end up with Mia or Victoria (given her and Dimitri have different fathers). Hopefully Dimitri will be restored to a Moroi so, he and Rose I really hope that Dimitri can be saved. I have a feeling Adrian and Dimitri are half brothers. I heard there will be a spin off of the series. Richelle mead couldn't say who the characters are because it would say who lives or dies and rose would have walk in parts. So obviously Rose lives and I hope Adrian will use spirit to save Dimitri. I think Adrian will end up with Mia or Victoria (given her and Dimitri have different fathers). Hopefully Dimitri will be restored to a Moroi so, he and Rose can have children. Maybe I'm hoping wayyyy to much. I hope Lissa doesn't get the spin off she is alittle boring. Lissa and Christian should be together. They compliment each other. ...more \"I've given up on you... Love fades. Mine has.\" This fifth installment of the Vampire Academy did surprise me. It has a boring and slow start, but when I got into the middle part of it, I was dumbstrucked with all its epicness. I could not say much about the plot since it will spoil those who haven't yet read this, but the pacing became better. There were more surprising things in the second half of it. Mostly I was stunned by the turn of events-- including that plot twist at the end! Rose was qu \"I've given up on you... Love fades. Mine has.\" This fifth installment of the Vampire Academy did surprise me. It has a boring and slow start, but when I got into the middle part of it, I was dumbstrucked with all its epicness. I could not say much about the plot since it will spoil those who haven't yet read this, but the pacing became better. There were more surprising things in the second half of it. Mostly I was stunned by the turn of events-- including that plot twist at the end! Rose was quite annoying in this book. I couldn't deny the fact that I was irritated by her immaturity here but thankfully, her character became better at the final chapters. I could never express how I love this series. Seriously, it becomes more and more incredible in each sequel. The final book will surely be a blast! Rating: 5 Stars ...more I did it. I know I said that I wouldn\u2019t, but I read Spirit Bound in spite of my boycott. I have no excuse. I\u2019m almost as big a hypocrite as Rose Hathaway. Almost. In my defense, I didn\u2019t decide to read it until after I read every spoiler available via Amazon.com. Therefore, I knew every plot point within this book before I read it, and ironically, it was the very thing that compelled me to read it. Curse my morbid curiosity. Worse, I liked it! I may never forgive myself. Before I say anything els I did it. I know I said that I wouldn\u2019t, but I read Spirit Bound in spite of my boycott. I have no excuse. I\u2019m almost as big a hypocrite as Rose Hathaway. Almost. In my defense, I didn\u2019t decide to read it until after I read every spoiler available via Amazon.com. Therefore, I knew every plot point within this book before I read it, and ironically, it was the very thing that compelled me to read it. Curse my morbid curiosity. Worse, I liked it! I may never forgive myself. Before I say anything else, I have to state this officially, for the review record\u2026I HATE Rose. HATE her. I have resigned myself to the fact that we shall never, ever see any character growth from her, if anything, we can expect consistent digression, but still, this knowledge does not make me hate her any less. She is whinny, self involved, selfish, brash, manipulative, dishonest, and hypocritical. My favorite line to hate from her appears several times throughout this novel\u2026\u201dIt was hard, but I pushed the guilt aside.\u201d Hold the phone; I\u2019m supposed to feel sorry for you because you are somehow able to overcome your guilt about destroying the lives of the people who love you while you get innocent people killed for your own selfish gains? Not likely. Even worse, I think I actually saw red while reading Rose's flippant, often condesending treatment of Adrian. Rose doesn\u2019t deserve any of the people who love her, not Lissa, not Adrian, not Christian, Eddie, or the help or respect of any of the people that assist her on her journey. The only reason I root for her is because not rooting for her would be a betrayal to the characters I do love, namely Adrian, Lissa and Christian. Any of those who know my thoughts on this series know I am team Adrian through and through. He appears morally ambiguous upon first glance, when in fact; I think he may have the strongest moral character of any of them. He may drink and smoke like a freight train. He may even be a bit of a sloth, but there isn\u2019t anything he wouldn\u2019t do for the people he loves, even to his own detriment. His willingness to help maybe self motivated, but he has never ever operated under false pretenses, has never lied and never manipulated those he claims to love. Because I love Adrian, I want him to have that which he desires most, Rose. And I was so glad that he has finally been given the opportunity to have her. However, that does not mean that I think he should end up with her. Though for Adrian\u2019s sake I hoped for the pairing, I have always known, and know, that Rose and Dimitri will end up together, as they should. Rose doesn\u2019t deserve Adrian on her best day. Let's face it, I don't even think she deserves Dimtri. But I am so glad that Mead gave Adrian a chance to shine. And this fact along with two others is the only reason I liked this book and broke my vow to not read Spirit Bound . I can turn my back on Rose, but I could never turn my back on Adrian. Thankfully, Mead also decided to devote more page time not only to Adrian, but to Lissa and Christian as well. These characters are so full of win in this installment that they somehow allowed me to overlook my hatred for Rose. That is a tremendous testament to their awesomeness. I know many people resent Lissa, though I have never understood why, she has always proven her friendship and loyalty to Rose, if anything, I\u2019ve always felt that Rose had something to prove, but once again, Lissa outshines Rose in every way and puts her to extreme shame. *Spoilers Ahead*. I was proud of Lissa for restoring Dimitri, not because I felt that she owed it to Rose, but because if showed Lissa\u2019s immense, all consuming selflessness, as well as her development in the use of Spirit. Lissa is just awesome, in an angelic sort of way. And Christian, oh how I missed him in Blood Promise . Thankfully, he is back on par with his snide antics, shrewd observations, and endless love for Lissa, which is filled with that delicious tension that makes your stomach clench. I ate it up. As for Dimitri, I have never really liked or disliked him, except in Blood Promise . I clearly disliked Strigoi Dimitri. He was such a forgone clich\u00e9 as a Strigoi. Nevertheless, I am glad his humanity was restored and even better, he upped the angst ante with his rejection of Rose. Mead may be brilliant at destroying her characters (Seth from Georgia Kincaid series anyone?) as she has proven with Rose, but you can\u2019t deny her ability to rip your heart out. I don\u2019t even really care if Rose gets her happy ending, in fact, I hope she meets a tragic end in the last installment, but even I was in a state over Dimitri\u2019s words in the church. Oh the angst! Rose and Dimitri belong together, even though it makes me kind of sick. I can't help but want it to happen, for Dimitri's sake. So Mead has redeemed herself a bit in my eyes. I may despise Rose with a fiery passion, but she knocked one out of the park by allowing Adrian and Lissa to surpass the narrator and steal the show and for peppering this book with so much emotional turmoil, deceit, tension and steam, that I couldn\u2019t help but read it and like it. Kudos. P.S. If Mead turns Adrain into any more of a sacraficial lamb I will be truly devestated. Give the man a break for Christ's sake, he's been through enough already. ...more Yup, esta serie va a acabar conmigo, definitivamente. No contentos con todo el drama de Dimitri, entran ahora en juego dramas con Adrian, con Lissa, con Christian y con conspiradores que ni siquiera tienen cara todav\u00eda, ASDFGHJKL\u00d1. Vampire Academy es esa saga que no deja de mejorar con cada libro que lees, de verdad, las emociones siempre son m\u00e1s y m\u00e1s intensas a medida que vas pasando las p\u00e1ginas. Aunque, s\u00ed, hay que admitirlo, al menos hasta el quinto, el pico dram\u00e1tico de sufrimiento y fangir Yup, esta serie va a acabar conmigo, definitivamente. No contentos con todo el drama de Dimitri, entran ahora en juego dramas con Adrian, con Lissa, con Christian y con conspiradores que ni siquiera tienen cara todav\u00eda, ASDFGHJKL\u00d1. Vampire Academy es esa saga que no deja de mejorar con cada libro que lees, de verdad, las emociones siempre son m\u00e1s y m\u00e1s intensas a medida que vas pasando las p\u00e1ginas. Aunque, s\u00ed, hay que admitirlo, al menos hasta el quinto, el pico dram\u00e1tico de sufrimiento y fangirleo es el tercero, Shadow Kiss. Ahora, este, Promesa de Sangre, tiene un tinte de emociones completamente diferentes y m\u00e1s oscuras. Adem\u00e1s, a diferencia del anterior, que se centra en ser un libro con poqu\u00edsima acci\u00f3n y con mucha carga emocional, este tiene acci\u00f3n e intrigas por doquier. No nos quedamos cortos en peleas contra strigoi, en intrigas de la Corte Moroi, en conspiraciones que afectan incluso a los alquimistas y en manipulaciones, asesinatos y planes macabros que hacen que Rose quede en un precipicio al final del libro. Como para los perdidos, este quinto libro de Vampire Academy empieza con Rose y Lissa a punto de graduarse del instituto y empezar a ser adultas dentro de la sociedad moroi de la Corte Real. Sin embargo, para ellas dos el acabar el instituto significa que se tienen que embarcar en una de las misiones locas de Rose para intentar salvar el alma de Dimitri y evitar que siga siendo un strigoi. Si lo recuerdan por el final del cuarto libro, Abe (quien, sorpresivamente, es el padre de Rose) consigue informaci\u00f3n que apunta a que el hermano de Victor Dashkov, un moroi que puede controlar el esp\u00edritu, fue capaz de revertir la conversi\u00f3n de un strigoi. Esta misi\u00f3n loca de Rose implica, claramente, sacar a Victor Dashkov de la c\u00e1rcel, conseguir que los re\u00fana con su hermano y que este sujeto les diga a Lissa y a Rose exactamente c\u00f3mo hacer que Dimitri vuelva a ser un dhampir. Y s\u00ed, as\u00ed es como empieza el libro... ...y empieza a darte cachetadas en la cara porque NADA de lo que piensas que va a pasar o que es factible que pase pasa. vaya trabalenguas. El punto es que la trama se va desarrollando tan bien y conectando de una manera tan sutil todos los cabos sueltos que se han ido dejando a lo largo de los libros, que la experiencia de leerlo es tan genial que te vas sorprendiendo cada vez m\u00e1s con lo que le pasa a Rose y a sus amigos. De hecho, creo que una de las cosas que m\u00e1s me gustaron de este libro fue el hecho de que la historia no se centra ego\u00edstamente en una Rose obsesionada con revertir la conversi\u00f3n de Dimitri (que s\u00ed, obviamente est\u00e1 ah\u00ed), sino que tambi\u00e9n nos introducimos en historias m\u00e1s propias de la Corte de los moroi, de la situaci\u00f3n de los dhampir, de los debates del Pleno de los moroi, de alianzas entre las familias reales, de un mont\u00f3n de cosas que se escapan del control de Rose y que hacen del libro algo much\u00edsimo m\u00e1s completo y m\u00e1s real. Creo que esto es todo lo lejos que puedo ir sin empezar a decir spoilers, as\u00ed que toda la secci\u00f3n que est\u00e9 debajo de este p\u00e1rrafo puedes leerla SI Y S\u00d3LO SI has le\u00eddo el libro; sino, hazlo bajo tu propio riesgo. ABAJO HAY SPOILERS. EST\u00c1S AVISADO. LUEGO NO DIGAS QUE NO TE ADVERT\u00cd. \u00bfSIGUES LEYENDO? \u00bfYA LE\u00cdSTE EL LIBRO? 3... 2... 1... SPOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOILERS. Okay, vamos a ver. Yo no me f\u00edo ni un poquito de Victor Dashkov y menos de su hermano loco. S\u00ed, ya s\u00e9 que les dijeron a Rose y a Lissa lo que deb\u00edan hacer para revertir el cambio de Dimitri, PEEEEERO se escaparon convenientemente despu\u00e9s. NO. ME. F\u00cdO. \u00bfQu\u00e9 tal que haya efectos secundarios? \u00bfPor qu\u00e9 no le preguntaron al hermano de Dashkov que pas\u00f3 con la strigoi a la que logr\u00f3 salvar? A m\u00ed esto me huele muy mal... En cuanto llegu\u00e9 a la parte en la que Lissa le clavaba la estaca a Dimitri con ayuda de Christian (una escena genial, si me lo preguntan) y vi que apenas estaba en la mitad del libro, la situaci\u00f3n me pint\u00f3 muy mal. Es decir, SAB\u00cdA que no todo iba a ser color de rosas entre Rose y Dimitri si a\u00fan quedaban como 250 p\u00e1ginas de libro. Y SUFR\u00cd PORQUE TEN\u00cdA RAZ\u00d3N. JO-DER. \u00bfY saben qu\u00e9 me sab\u00eda a\u00fan peor? Que Dimitri estuviera en plan \"Oh, Lissa, eres una diosa por salvarme, ser\u00e9 tu esclavo para toda la eternidad... Pero, Rose, no quiero verte porque no tengo perd\u00f3n por todo lo que te he hecho\" y AHHHHHHHHHHHHH. Mira, si yo odiaba a Lissa antes de que todo esto pasara, ahora la odio a\u00fan m\u00e1s. Es decir, s\u00ed, ayud\u00f3 a que Dimitri no fuera m\u00e1s un strigoi, pero m\u00e1s o menos sin quererlo lo convirti\u00f3 en su adorador Y ESO NO SE PUEDE. Adem\u00e1s, era tremendamente doloroso leer a Rose cuando le dec\u00edan que Dimitri no quer\u00eda verlo... y m\u00e1s doloroso a\u00fan leerla cuando Dimitri le dec\u00eda que ya no sent\u00eda nada por ella. QUE TODO ESO TIENE QUE SER UNA PATRA\u00d1A. ELLOS SON OTP Y SE TIENEN QUE AMAR HASTA EL FIN DE LOS TIEMPOS. Pero... y aqu\u00ed va un pero que me dol\u00eda mucho a lo largo del libro... ADRIAN. Ay, dioses del Olimpo, \u00bfpor qu\u00e9 me hacen esto? Leer lo buen novio que era con Rose y lo mucho que se nota que la quiere... y luego leer a Rose olvid\u00e1ndose casi por completo de \u00e9l ante la mera menci\u00f3n del nombre de Dimitri me romp\u00eda el coraz\u00f3n. Y que lo usara de desparche cuando Dimitri le dijo que ya nunca la volver\u00eda a amar... MAL. Aghhhh... No s\u00e9 c\u00f3mo sentirme con respecto a esto. Est\u00e1 claro que quiero que Rose al final est\u00e9 con Dimitri, pero no quiero ver a Adrian con el coraz\u00f3n roto o con otra en plan \"te sigo queriendo, Rose, pero es lo mejor para los dos que yo est\u00e9 con otra\" o algo as\u00ed. CREEN UN HAR\u00c9N PARA DIMITRI-ROSE-ADRIAN (?) Okay, no xD Ahora, EL FINAL. HOLY F*CK, EL FINAL. \u00bfAlguien se vio venir eso de que supuestamente Rose hab\u00eda matado a la Reina Tatiana? I mean, WHAT THE ACTUAL HELL... Y ahora que lo recuerdo, MOMENTOS \u00c9PICOS Y CUANDO ROSE HABLA FRENTE AL PLENO DE LOS MOROI REALES Y LES PLANTA CARA POR LA LEY DE LA EDAD DE LOS DHAMPIR. OL\u00c9 T\u00da, ROSE. Volviendo a la conspiraci\u00f3n... VAYA. Es que ni siquiera me puedo imaginar qu\u00e9 demonios puede ser eso, si est\u00e1 conectado con los archivos del padre de Lissa que robaron de los alquimistas o qu\u00e9. Y luego est\u00e1 la nota de Tatiana que le da Ambrose a Rose... Y Abe apareciendo para defender a su hija como su abogado en la vista preliminar y cuando han decidido que va a ir a juicio dici\u00e9ndole que tenga absoluta certeza de que no la condenar\u00e1n. AHHHHH, DEMASIADAS COSAS PARA POCAS P\u00c1GINAS. Y, por cierto, me devuelvo un poco, pero \u00bfpodemos pensar en el momento en el que la Guardia Real llega para llevarse a Rose y Dimitri la defiende a capa y espada como en los viejos tiempos? Y LUEGO ESE HOMBRE DICE QUE YA NO LA AMA. En resumen... #SoMuchFeels #NecesitoElSextoLibroYa ...more Estoy muy sorprendida con este libro, estuve atrapada en la historia de principio a fin, mi opini\u00f3n sobre Lissa mejor\u00f3 enormemente en esta parte de la historia y Adrian se ha ganado mi coraz\u00f3n. Rose como siempre incre\u00edble, impulsiva, fuerte, decidida, terca, intensa, un poco ego\u00edsta y metida en much\u00edsimos problemas. La trama tiene giros que te dejan sin palabras y el final... dioses, es tan impactante que quieres seguir con el sexto y \u00faltimo libro de la saga de una vez ***OMG, OMG, OMG! Ahhhhhh!!!!!!!**** *sigh* Now that that\u2019s out of the way, let\u2019s move on.... That was incredible. Just incredible! I cannot believe all that went on in that book. Firstly, Dimitri was saved! Yes, yes, yes! I can\u2019t be happier about that, I swear. I actually shrieked when I read Lissa had actually managed to restore his soul. Let\u2019s face it- it\u2019s what every VA fan has wanted since the end of Shadow Kiss. And I\u2019m no exception. My heart breaks over the guilt he feels and I know he can\u2019t ***OMG, OMG, OMG! Ahhhhhh!!!!!!!**** *sigh* Now that that\u2019s out of the way, let\u2019s move on.... That was incredible. Just incredible! I cannot believe all that went on in that book. Firstly, Dimitri was saved! Yes, yes, yes! I can\u2019t be happier about that, I swear. I actually shrieked when I read Lissa had actually managed to restore his soul. Let\u2019s face it- it\u2019s what every VA fan has wanted since the end of Shadow Kiss. And I\u2019m no exception. My heart breaks over the guilt he feels and I know he can\u2019t take back the things he\u2019s done, but surely he can move on. And what about him not wanting to be with Rose? I understand how bad knowing he\u2019d hurt the person he loves most would be, but there is NO WAY I believe he no longer loves her. That\u2019s an outright lie! You only have to read how he looks at her and how he was willing to fight a bunch of guardians for her. He aint fooling anybody! Oh, Rose. Dearest Rose..... WHAT ARE YOU DOING? She loves Dimka, that\u2019s clear, but what about Adrian? I know her feelings are confused, especially knowing she does care about Adrian, but she is only going to make things harder on herself. And on Adrian if she does end up getting back with Dimitri. I believe Adrian does actually love her and his heart will break if they split. That being said, I wouldn\u2019t be true to myself or honest if I didn\u2019t say that even though I have a soft spot for Adrian, I\u2019ll be cheering for Rose and Dimitri all the way to the very end. Lissa and Christian seemed to work things out, which was great to see. And many of the other awesome characters I love were back. Eddie, Abe, Mia, Rose\u2019s Mum, Jill, even Sydney had a small cameo. It was soooo great to see them all again! Now on to the shocks! How can they believe that Rose killed the Queen? It\u2019s an exceptional twist in the story, but I do wonder who actually did kill her and why? Now that Rose is going to trial it\u2019s gonna be up to Lissa and all her friends to save her and get her out of trouble. And Lissa has a sibling! Can you believe it? That totally blew me away, and I never saw it coming. I can\u2019t wait to find out how that impacts the storyline. Even though it\u2019s a surprise, I think a younger sis or bro would be good for Lissa. It means she\u2019s not as alone as she\u2019s always been. I CANNOT WAIT to find out what happens in the final book. I\u2019m sad that Last Sacrifice will be the end of the VA series, but I\u2019m looking forward to what I know will be a gripping, explosive, heart racing conclusion. Now I just gotta wait until December. Seriously, it\u2019s gonna kill me!!! ...more Since a large part of this review is dedicated to my hatred of the romances in this series, I'll start by saying I never liked Rose and Dimitri together because I never understood why they liked each other. Richelle Mead told us that Dimitri and Rose were alike and that's why they were soul mates but she never showed that in the writing. How is Dimitri at all like Rose? Other than fighting, wanting to protect Moroi, and being in love with Rose, which are three things that apply to almost every m Since a large part of this review is dedicated to my hatred of the romances in this series, I'll start by saying I never liked Rose and Dimitri together because I never understood why they liked each other. Richelle Mead told us that Dimitri and Rose were alike and that's why they were soul mates but she never showed that in the writing. How is Dimitri at all like Rose? Other than fighting, wanting to protect Moroi, and being in love with Rose, which are three things that apply to almost every male guardian in this book, they have nothing in common. Also, I have to admit that I was uncomfortable with their relationship because he was her teacher, but I might have been able to overlook that if they had been written better and if I had liked Dimitri more. I agree with others that despite all of the action, this book was slow and boring. Everything was too easy and the plot was very contrived. Why did Victor need Lissa in the first book if his brother was a Spirit user? Eddie just does whatever Rose says because he trusts her and then conveniently goes missing for the rest of the book once he's served his purpose. Someone needs to remind me why Adrian is in love with Rose. I think they have good chemistry at times but it's impossible to root for them when she treats him like crap and uses him constantly. And I'll reiterate what I said in my review of Blood Promise, the love triangle was completely useless because it's completely obvious who Rose is going to end up with. Mead, who is clearly in love with Dimitri the same way Stephenie Meyer is in love with Edward, can't let Rose have real feelings for Adrian and move on with him. That would have created tension and added complexity to Rose's feelings. In real life people can have meaningful relationships with more than one person (just not at the same time) without diminishing the the love felt for either partner. If Rose had moved on with Adrian it would have also explained why he would stick around when her feelings began to waver since he would have had something real to miss and want to hold on to. But all of the problems with this book are common to books that star Mary Sues. Rose has been a Mary Sue from the beginning but at least there were consequences to her actions some of the time and she had faults that the characters in the book acknowledged. By Spirit Bound, the consequences she faced were not in response to things she should have been punished for. She's not punished for her selfish behavior regarding Dimitri or Adrian. Adrian forgives her for using him and Dimitri rejects her to protect her, not because of the means she used to save him or because he realizes what a selfish person she is. Nor is she punished for letting loose an evil man who hurt her best friend. She has to file papers for a few days for sneaking out, hardly the appropriate punishment for what she actually did. The only consequence she really faced was in response to her rightfully speaking out against the Queen for lowering the guardian age and that was only a small part of why she was accused of murder. Most of it was because she was framed. Honestly, I wouldn't continue reading this series except that I have a masochistic need to finish a series that I've started. ...more 4/5 The 5th book in the series took me a little longer than I would have liked but I'm glad I was able to finish it. As a result, I don't remember every single thing that I was going to write in my review that I would have liked One thing that I really liked was all of the plot twists. There were so many things that surprised me in this book and I was very glad for it. During the middle of the book however, I gotten a little bored. I kept going on though because I was (and still am) so interested 4/5 The 5th book in the series took me a little longer than I would have liked but I'm glad I was able to finish it. As a result, I don't remember every single thing that I was going to write in my review that I would have liked One thing that I really liked was all of the plot twists. There were so many things that surprised me in this book and I was very glad for it. During the middle of the book however, I gotten a little bored. I kept going on though because I was (and still am) so interested about learning about Dimitri and how Rose is going to fix everything. I loved reading and learning more about the side characters such as Lissa and Christian and Adrean. The ending of this book was excellent and something that I am very excited about reading more in the 6th and final book. Overall this book was a little less than I expected but I did enjoy reading it. ...more I find it very challenging to review this book because it was good in so many ways that can't be explained without spoilers. But worry not, this review is Spirit Bound Spoilers Free. I will do my best to express you the passion I felt reading this book, but I'm afraid it's beyond what words can explain. Spirit Bound starts back at the Academy, it's finally graduation time and Rose has only one more challenge in front of her: The Trials. A final exam planned by guardians to test their ability to I find it very challenging to review this book because it was good in so many ways that can't be explained without spoilers. But worry not, this review is Spirit Bound Spoilers Free. I will do my best to express you the passion I felt reading this book, but I'm afraid it's beyond what words can explain. Spirit Bound starts back at the Academy, it's finally graduation time and Rose has only one more challenge in front of her: The Trials. A final exam planned by guardians to test their ability to protect Moroi \"in the real world\". But what worries Rose the most is the after-graduation. She always thought it rimed with freedom but reality hit her in the face. She will spend her life protecting Moroi and her own desires won't matter anymore. There's not only the weight of responsibilities though, she knows Dimitri is out there, lurking in shadows, waiting for an opportunity to kill her. In this installment, Rose is more determined than ever and will use extremely illegal ways to reach her objectives. Desperation to save Dimitri, while she still can, drives her actions and consequences won't be light. She is not risking only her future and her life but also the ones of people she loves. When we love a book, we all say \"I couldn't put it down\", well in this case, I loved the book so much I HAD to put it down and take deep breaths because it was just too much. Love, Passion, Treason, Fear, Sadness, Grief, all these emotions laid on paper in a so intense way it almost became unbearable. At times I couldn't believe my own eyes, events happening in that book triggered reactions in me that are beyond words! I really love both Rose and Lissa for their very distinct qualities, and even though they are very different, they have one thing in common: they would do anything for each other. Adrian is as snarky as ever but we get to discover a new side to him. I really like the guy and it's clear he cares about Rose and I loved to watch them together. Dimitri, oh Dimitri! He broke my heart in Blood Promise and Spirit Bound wasn't any easier. At times I really felt like hitting him in the head to knock some sense into him and even though I would have a lot to say, I won't spill the beans and ruin surprises. I will mention though that chapters 20 and 24 nearly killed me. I was glad that Abe was in SB, he didn't play a major role but it was nice to have him around and I think he will have a bigger role in The Last Sacrifice. The end is as usual a cliff hanger, if suspense could kill Richelle Mead would be in danger of trial for massive murder, because I really don't know how I will be able to wait until December to know how this epic story ends. Vampire Academy is my favorite series and Richelle delivered. Spirit Bound was action-packed, full of surprises, emotions and magic. I was in awe so many times during this book, it really was fabulous. I think Shadow Kiss is still my favorite of the series because I'm such a romantic but Spirit Bound is very close second. I really hope Rose will have her happy ending in The Last Sacrifice (even though the title doesn't point that way), she's been through so much, she really deserves her happily ever after. ...more Again, I found this book a bit too long-winded and I have to admit that I skimmed through quite a few pages. Especially the 'action' parts were a little bit boring. Some problems were solved in a rather easy way (the break-in into the guardians' headquarters, for example) and there wasn't one scene when I felt like the life of one of the 'important' characters was at stake. The relationship-focused parts of the story made up for that a little bit, although Rose's behaviour around Adrian made me Again, I found this book a bit too long-winded and I have to admit that I skimmed through quite a few pages. Especially the 'action' parts were a little bit boring. Some problems were solved in a rather easy way (the break-in into the guardians' headquarters, for example) and there wasn't one scene when I felt like the life of one of the 'important' characters was at stake. The relationship-focused parts of the story made up for that a little bit, although Rose's behaviour around Adrian made me very angry. She tells him she is ready to move on, but nevertheless thinks mostly of Dimitri when they are together. I found that extremely mean, but couldn't understand why Adrian let himself be used as her doormat at the same time. (view spoiler) [I really think this series could have redeemed itself had Mead had the guts to kill Dimitri off in the last book. But alas, there is no real chance for Rose and Adrian, which makes the whole love triangle completely meaningless. We all know who Rose will end up with. (hide spoiler) ] All in all, I have to say that I'm quite disappointed at how this series is developing. The last two books could have easily been shortened into one. I think I read only two thirds of this one without skimming, and I don't feel like I missed something important at all. Additionally, Mead's way of retelling what happened previously has begun to annoy me. I've never had problems with that in her Succubus series, but here it feels forced and disturbes the flow of her writing. Also, I always feel a little stupid as a reader when an author thinks she has to repeat everything for me. I know I'm forgetful, but not that much that I need every little fact shoved in my face again. Nevertheless, I'm still curious how this all will end, so I will probably read the last installment. Edit: After reading a few spoiler reviews on 'Last Sacrifice', I have decided not to read the last book after all. I just can't take Rose's behaviour anymore. Sad that this series went downhill after book three. ...more ugh! i wish i hadnt read the first 4 books so fast! may 18th is soo far away! any who, im a huge fan of this series and its been very interesting to read about people's thoughts as to what may happen in spirit bound; here are mine... As far as Rose and Dimitri go... I love the dhampire Dimitri and Rose relationship dearly but sadly i dont think its gonna work out too well. I was hoping that Dimitri would be un-happy being strigoi or that somehow his love for Rose would transcend the evil and darkn ugh! i wish i hadnt read the first 4 books so fast! may 18th is soo far away! any who, im a huge fan of this series and its been very interesting to read about people's thoughts as to what may happen in spirit bound; here are mine... As far as Rose and Dimitri go... I love the dhampire Dimitri and Rose relationship dearly but sadly i dont think its gonna work out too well. I was hoping that Dimitri would be un-happy being strigoi or that somehow his love for Rose would transcend the evil and darkness that comes with being a strigoi but it didnt and because of that i dont think their relationship will ever be the same... How ever part of me still has hope for them... in more detail i think that 2 things can happen here. 1. Dimitri (most likely) wont kill Rose, but not because he doesnt want to...but i think that wanting to torture her more than actually wanting forever with her will be more the reason he wants to \"awaken\" her now, becuase lets face it- rose would rather die, and why would her what she wants?? because he loves her deep down?? maybe-but he seems to be more interested in his own person gain and holding power over people. anyway, he will be unsuccessful in turning her strigoi and she will \"save\" him by turning him back into a dhampir. however, i think he will most likely resent her for doing so because he loves being strigoi. OR he will be like everyone hopes and he and rose will live happily ever after..either way their relationship wont be the same.. 2.he WILL turn Rose into Strigoi and 1 of 3 things could happen. she actually likes being strigoi (which i wouldnt be able to fathon that happening), she has to choose between herself and dimitri and she kills him and lissa and adrian etc turn her back to dhampir, or she finds away to \"save\" herself and dimitri...which goes back to what i think will happen in her first senerior. as far as the other characters go... adrian may or may not die or end up with Rose..idk Chirstian and Lissa will get back together... mia and eddie will get together.. jill, mia, or eddie may die either fighting strigoi (i dont want anyone to die) for some reason i think alberta may die as well.. rose will end up with dimitri, adrian, or single victor and lissa will start the revolution against tatiana and then victor will turn on lissa and rose will either get him back into jail or kill him... and a lot of other stuff that i forgot...lol tell me what you think :) or if you agree with me. ...more Wow!!! Just wow!! I can now say with certainty that Vampire Academy has just become the classic example of why great books should not be allowed to become series. Spirit Bound IMHO has one of the most angsty demonstrations of how an author can seamlessly annihilate a beloved character to epic proportions. Dimitri and Rose were the two main reasons I loved Vampire Academy and half of that equation is now missing. What Mead did to Dimitri in Blood Promise and now Spirit Bound has me wondering if I Wow!!! Just wow!! I can now say with certainty that Vampire Academy has just become the classic example of why great books should not be allowed to become series. Spirit Bound IMHO has one of the most angsty demonstrations of how an author can seamlessly annihilate a beloved character to epic proportions. Dimitri and Rose were the two main reasons I loved Vampire Academy and half of that equation is now missing. What Mead did to Dimitri in Blood Promise and now Spirit Bound has me wondering if I'll ever be able to redeem him as a character. I have a tough time when characters in a book either physically or emotionally hurt or injure a protagonist that I've come to like, in this case Rose, and Dimitri has flawlessly done both to her. There was a time when I'd wave my Save Team Dimitri flag with pride and hope, but that flag is no more. If it wasn't sacrilegious to burn flags, I'd burn that one in a heartbeat. I just keep running in my head the hated lines of I've given up on you. Love fades. Mine has. Really?!!??!! After everything Rose did to try and save Dimtri that's what she gets and deserves? W.T.F.!! I don't care what mental monsters he's battling in his heart or head, you just don't say that to someone that not only loved you, but risked their life for you\u2026 time and time again. Most of my reviews include a smidge of a recap of the book. I just don't have the heart to revisit that just yet. In all fairness though, the book was written flawlessly, but at the same time the character annihilation was executed with precision. I am officially putting my Team Adrian shirt on and wearing it with pride. ...more Wow. This was probably the best book in this series so far. Is it only me who loves Adrian more than Dimitri as a lover to Rose? I like them both but I love Rose, she's one of my favourite female protagonists and I love the ending which was shocking. Onto Last Promise!! Spirit Bound by Richelle Mead Actual Rating: 2.75 Stars Where to start with this review, hmm, it makes me so sad to rate it so low, even though I didn't hate it. I did enjoy this book, but i felt like most of the time it was dragging on and their was not one interesting storyline, or strong plot. It got the two stars because of my disappointment, that's all. That was, until the ending that bumped up my rating! Thank goodness, we finally have a seemingly great new storyline, that i hope will not be Spirit Bound by Richelle Mead Actual Rating: 2.75 Stars Where to start with this review, hmm, it makes me so sad to rate it so low, even though I didn't hate it. I did enjoy this book, but i felt like most of the time it was dragging on and their was not one interesting storyline, or strong plot. It got the two stars because of my disappointment, that's all. That was, until the ending that bumped up my rating! Thank goodness, we finally have a seemingly great new storyline, that i hope will not be a let down in Last Sacrifice, but i doubt it will be, because when Richelle Mead starts a good storyline, it usually continues to be great. I'm so happy this Dimitri 'strogoi' plot line is over, i got so sick of it and never really liked it since it begun. It took me many times to bring myself to read this book, and i truly think a lot of my distaste for this particular instalment in the series was because i waited about 5 months to read it, since finishing Blood Promise. This was all because of the Dimitri storyline. uh, haha. This is probably my least favourite book in the series so far, but I by no means hated it. I'm really looking forward to the last instalment in the Vampire Academy series, and have a great feeling that it's going to be enjoyable for me like the first 3ish books were! :) ...more THERE\u2019S A BIG DIFFERENCE BETWEEN death threats and love letters---even if the person writing the death threats and love letters---even if the person writing the death threats still claims to actually love you. Of course, considering I once tried to kill someone I loved, maybe I had no right to judge. Today\u2019s letter had been perfectly timed, not that I should have expected any less, I\u2019d read it four times so far, and even though I was running late, I couldn\u2019t help but read it a 5th time. My deare THERE\u2019S A BIG DIFFERENCE BETWEEN death threats and love letters---even if the person writing the death threats and love letters---even if the person writing the death threats still claims to actually love you. Of course, considering I once tried to kill someone I loved, maybe I had no right to judge. Today\u2019s letter had been perfectly timed, not that I should have expected any less, I\u2019d read it four times so far, and even though I was running late, I couldn\u2019t help but read it a 5th time. My dearest Rose, One of the few downsides to being awakened is that we no longer require sleep; therefore we also no longer dream. It\u2019s a shame because if I could dream, I know I\u2019d dream about you. I\u2019d dream about the way you smell and how your black hair feels like silk between my fingers. I\u2019d dream about the smoothness of your skin and the fierceness of your lips when we kiss. Without dreams, I have to be content with my own imagination---which is almost as good. I can picture all of those things perfectly, as well as how it\u2019ll be when I take your life from this world. It\u2019s something I regret having to do, but you\u2019ve made my choice inevitable. Your refusal to join me in eternal life and love leaves no other course of action, and I can\u2019t allow someone as dangerous as you to live. Besides, even if you were turned against your will, you now have so many enemies among the Strigoi that one of them would kill you. If you must die, it\u2019ll be by my hand. No one else\u2019s. Nonetheless, I wish you well today as you take your trials---not that you need any luck. If they\u2019re actually making you take them---and I have no doubt they are---it\u2019s a waste of everyone\u2019s time. You\u2019re the best in the group, and by this evening you\u2019ll wear your promise mark. Of course, that means you\u2019ll be all that much more of a challenge when we meet again---which I\u2019ll definitely enjoy. And we will meet again. With graduation, you\u2019ll be turned out of the Academy, and once you\u2019re outside the wards, I\u2019ll find you. There is no place in this world you can hide from me. I\u2019m watching. Love, Dimitri Despite his warm wishes, I didn\u2019t really find the letter inspiring as I tossed it onto my bed and left the room and tried not to let it get to me. There is no place in this world you can hide from me. I didn\u2019t doubt it. I knew Dimitri had spies. Since turning into an evil, undead vampire, he\u2019d also become a sort of leader among them---something I helped speed along when I killed off his former boss. I suspected a lot of his spies were human, watching for me to go past my school\u2019s borders since no Strigoi could have stayed on a twenty-four-hour stakeout. Humans could, and I\u2019ve recently learned that plenty of humans were willing to serve the Strigoi in exchange for the promise of being turned some day. Those humans considered eternal life worth corrupting their souls and killing off others to survive. Those humans made me sick. \u201cYou look like you\u2019re ready to face an army.\u201d I shifted out of my dark thoughts. I\u2019d been so fixated on Dimitri and his letter that I\u2019d been walking across campus, oblivious to the world, and hadn\u2019t noticed my best friend, Lissa, falling into step with me, a teasing smile on her face. Her catching me by surprise was a rarity because we shared a psychic bond, one that always kept me aware of her presence and feelings. I had to be pretty distracted to not notice her, and if ever there was a distraction, it was the man I loved wanting to kill me. I gave Lissa what I hoped was a convincing smile. She knew about what had happened with Dimitri, my former instructor-turned-lover had been changed into a Strigoi and was now waiting to kill me after I\u2019d tried---and failed---to kill him. Nonetheless, the letters I got from him every week worried her, and she had enough to deal with in her life without my undead stalker to add to the list. \u201cI kind of am facing an army,\u201d I pointed out. It was early evening, but late summer still found the sun up in the Montana sky, bathing us in golden light as we walked. I loved it, but a Moroi---a peaceful, living vampire---Lissa would eventually grow weak and uncomfortable in it. She laughed and tossed her platinum hair over one shoulder. The sun lit up the pale color into angelic brilliance. \u201cI suppose. I didn\u2019t think you\u2019d really be all that worried.\u201d I could understand her reasoning. Even Dimitri had said these would be a waste of my time. After all, I\u2019d gone to Russia and faced real Strigoi---killing a number of them on my own. Maybe I shouldn\u2019t have been afraid, but all the fanfare and people suddenly pressed upon me. My heart rate increased. What if couldn\u2019t do it? What if I wasn\u2019t as good as I thought I was? The guardians who would challenge me out here weren\u2019t Strigoi, but they were skilled and had been fighting a lot longer than I had. Arrogance could get me into a lot of trouble, and if I failed, I\u2019d be doing it in front of all the people who cared about me. All the people who had such faith in me. One other thing also concerned me. \u201cI\u2019m worried about how these marks will affect my future,\u201d I said. That was the truth. The trials were the final exam for a novice guardian like me. Passing them ensured I could graduate from St. Vladimir's Academy and take my place with true guardians who defended Moroi a guardian would be assigned to. Through our bond, I felt Lissa\u2019s compassion---and her own worry. \u201cAlberta thinks there\u2019s a good chance we can stay together---that you\u2019ll be my guardian.\u201d I grimaced. \u201cI think Alberta was saying that to keep me in school.\u201d I\u2019d dropped out to hunt Dimitri a few months ago and then returned---something that didn\u2019t look good on your academic record. There was also the small fact that the Moroi queen, Tatiana, hated me and would probably be going out of her way to influence my assignment---but that was another story. \u201c I think Alberta knows half the guardians in the world would have to get wiped out before they\u2019d let me protect you. And even then, my odds would still be pretty slim.\u201d Ahead of us, the crow grew louder. One of the school\u2019s many sports fields had been transformed into an arena on par with something from Roman gladiatorial days. The bleachers had been built up, expanded from simple wooden seats to luxuriously cushioned benches. Banners surrounded the field, their bright colors visible from here as they whipped in the wind. I couldn\u2019t see them yet, but I knew there would be some type of barracks built near the stadium\u2019s entrance for novices to wait in. The field itself would have been turned into an obstacle course of tricks and dangers. And from the sound of that deafening roar of cheers, plenty were already there to witness the event. \u201cI\u2019m not giving up hope,\u201d Lissa said firmly. Through the bond, I knew she meant it. It was one of the wonderful things about her---a steadfast faith and optimism that weathered the most terrible ordeals. It was a sharp contrast to my recent cynicism. \u201cAnd I\u2019ve got something that might help you out today.\u201d She came to a stop and reached into her jeans pocket, producing a small silver ring scattered with tiny stones that looked like peridots. I didn\u2019t need any bond to understand what she was offering. \u201cOh, Liss\u2026I don\u2019t know. I don\u2019t want any, um, unfair advantage.\u201d Lissa rolled her eyes. \u201cThat\u2019s not the problem, and you know it. This one\u2019s fine, I swear.\u201d The ring she offered me was a charm, infused with the rare type of magic she wielded. All Moroi had control of one of the five elements: earth, air, water, fire, or spirit. Spirit was the rarest---so rare it had been forgotten over the centuries. Then Lissa and a few others had recently surfaced with it. Unlike the other elements, which were more physical in nature, spirit was tied into the mind and all sorts of psychic phenomena. Making charms with spirit was something Lissa had only just begun to experiment with---and she wasn\u2019t very good at it. Her best spirit ability was healing, so she kept trying to make healing charms. The last one had been a bracelet that singed my arm. \u201cThis one works. Only a little, but it\u2019ll help keep the darkness away during the trial.\u201d But all of spirit\u2019s gifts came at a cost: a darkness that eventually led to insanity. Darkness that sometimes bled over into me through the bond. Lissa and I had been told that with charms and her healing, we could fight it off. That was also something we had yet to master. I gave her a faint smile, moved by her concern, and accepted the ring. It didn\u2019t scald my hand, which I took as a promising sign. It was tiny---Lissa tended to work with whatever silver she could find---and only fit on my pinkie. I felt nothing whatsoever as it slid on. Sometimes that happened with healing charms. Or it could mean the ring was completely ineffectual. Either way, no harm done. \u201cThanks,\u201d I said. I felt delight sweep through her, and we continued walking. I held my hand out before me, admiring the way the green stones glittered. Jewelry wasn\u2019t a great idea in the kind of physical ordeals I\u2019d be facing, but I would have gloves on to cover it. \u201cHard to believe that after this, we\u2019ll be done here and out in the real world,\u201d I mused aloud, not really considering my words. Beside me Lissa stiffened, and I immediately regretted speaking. \u201cBeing out in the real world\u201d meant Lissa and I were going to undertake a task she\u2019d---unhappily---promised to help me with a couple months ago. While in Siberia, I\u2019d learned there might be a way to restore Dimitri back to a dhampir like me. It was a long shot---possibly a lie---and with the way he was fixated on my death, I had no illusions that I would have any other choice but to kill him if it came down to him or me. But if there was a way I might save him before that happened, I had to find out. Unfortunately, the only lead we had to making this miracle come true was through a criminal. Not just any criminal, either: Victor Dashkov, a royal Moroi who had tortured Lissa and committed all sorts of other atrocities that had made out life hell. Justice had been served, and Victor was locked away in prison, which complicated things. We\u2019d learned that so long as he was destined for a life behind bars, he saw no reason to share what he knew about his brother---the only possibly illogically---that Victor might give up the information if we offered him the one thing no one else could: freedom. This idea was not foolproof, for a number of reasons. First, I didn\u2019t know if it would work. That was kind of a big thing. Second, I had no idea how to stage a prison break, let alone where his prison even was. And finally, there was the fact that we would be releasing our mortal enemy. That was devastating enough to me, let alone Lissa. Yet as much as the idea troubled her---and believe me, it did---she\u2019d firmly sworn she would help me. I\u2019d offered to release her from the promise dozens of times in the last couple of months, but she\u2019d stood firm. Of course, considering we had no way to even find the prison, her promise might not matter in the end.I tried to fix the awkward silence between us, explaining instead that I\u2019d really meant we\u2019d be free to celebrate her birthday in style next week. Me attempts were interrupted by Stan, one of my longtime instructors. \u201cHathaway!\u201d he barked, coming from the direction of the field. \u201cNice of you to join us. Get in here now!\u201d Thoughts of Victor vanished from Lissa\u2019s mind. She gave me a quick hug. \u201cGood luck,\u201d she whispered. \u201cNot that you need it.\u201d Stan\u2019s expression told me that the ten-second goodbye was ten seconds too long. I thanked Lissa with a grin, and then she headed off to find our friends in the stands while I scurried after Stan. \u201cYou\u2019re lucky you aren\u2019t one of the first ones,\u201d he growled. \u201cPeople were even making bets about whether you\u2019d show.\u201d \u201cReally?\u201d I asked cheerfully. \u201cWhat kind of odds are there on that? Because I can still change my mind.\u201d His narrowed eyes shot me a warning that needed no words as we entered the waiting area adjacent to the field, across from the stands. It had always amazed me in past years how much work went into these trials, and I was no less impressed now as I saw it up close. The barrack novices waited in was constructed out of wood, complete with a roof. The structure looked as though it had been part of the stadium forever. It had been built with remarkable speed and would be taken down equally fast, once the trials were over. A doorway about three people wide gave a partial glimpse onto the field, where one of my classmates was waiting anxiously. All sorts of obstacles were set up there, challenges meant to test students\u2019 balance and coordination while they dodged the adult guardians who would be lurking around objects and corners. Wooden walls had been constructed at one end of the field, creating a dark and confusing maze. Nets and shaky platforms hung across other areas, designed to check just how well we could fight under difficult conditions. A few of the other novices crowded the doorway, hoping to get an advantage by watching those who went ahead of them. Not me. I would go in there blind, content to take on whatever they threw before me. Studying the course now would simply make me overthink and panic. Calm was what I needed now. So I leaned against one of the barrack walls and watched those around me. It appeared that I really had been the last to show up, and I wondered if people had actually lost money betting on me. Some of my classmates whispered in clusters. Some were doing stretches and other warm-up exercises. Others stood with instructors who had been mentors. Those teachers spoke intently to their students, giving last-minute words of advice. I kept hearing words like focus and calm down. Seeing them make my heart clench. Not so long ago, that was how I\u2019d pictured this day. I\u2019d imagined Dimitri and me standing together, with him telling me to take this seriously and not lose my cool when I was out on the field. Alberta had done a fair amount of mentoring for me since I\u2019d returned from Russia, but as captain, she was out on the field herself, busy with all sorts of responsibilities. She had no time to come in here and hold my hand. Friends of mine who might have offered comfort--- Eddie, Meredith, and others--- were wrapped up in their own fears. I was alone. Without her or Dimitri---or, well, anyone---I felt a surprising ache of loneliness flow through me. Dimitri should have been here with me. That\u2019s how it was supposed to have been. Closing my eyes, I allowed myself to pretend he was really there, only inches away as we spoke. \u201cDon\u2019t worry, comrade. I can do this blindfolded. Hell, maybe I actually will. Do you have anything I can use? If you\u2019re nice to me, I\u2019ll even let you tie it on.\u201d Seeing as this fantasy would have taken place after we\u2019d slept together and decided we could make things work, there was a strong possibility that he would have later helped me take off that blindfold---among other things. I could perfectly picture the exasperated shake of his head that would earn me. \u201cRose, I swear, sometimes it feels like every day with you is my own personal trial.\u201d But I knew he\u2019d smile anyway, and the look of pride and encouragement he\u2019d give me as I headed toward the field would be all I needed to get through the tests--- \u201cAre you meditating?\u201d I opened my eyes, astonished at the voice. \u201cMom? What are you doing here?\u201d In front of me stood Janine Hathaway, my mother, who was a few inches shorter than me but had enough fight in her for someone twice my size. The dangerous look on her tanned face dared anyone to bring on a challenge. She gave me a wry smile and put one hand on her hip. \u201cDid you honestly think I wouldn\u2019t come to watch you?\u201d \u201cI don\u2019t know,\u201d I admitted, feeling kind of guilty for doubting her. She and I hadn\u2019t had much contact over the years, and it was only recent events---most of them bad---that had begun to reestablish the connection between us. Most of the time, I still didn\u2019t know how to feel about her. I oscillated between a little girl\u2019s need for her absent mother and a teenager\u2019s resentment over abandonment. \u201cI figured you\u2019d have, you know, more important things to do.\u201d \u201cThere\u2019s no way I could miss this,\u201d she said firmly. She inclined her head toward the doorway, making her auburn curls sway. \u201cNeither could your father.\u201d \u201cWhat?\u201d I hurried toward the doorway and peered out onto the fields. My view of the stands wasn\u2019t fantastic, thanks to all the obstacles on the field, but it was good enough. There he was: Abe Mazur. He was easy to spot with his black beard and mustache, as well as the emerald green scarf knotted over his dress shirt. I could even barely make out the glint of his gold earring. He had to be melting in this heat, but I figured it would take more than a little sweat for him to tame down his flashy fashion sense. If my relationship with my mother was sketchy, my relationship with my father was practically nonexistent. I\u2019d met him back in May, and even then, it wasn\u2019t until after I\u2019d gotten back that I found out I was his daughter. All dhampirs had one Moroi parent, and he was mine. I still wasn\u2019t sure how I felt about him. Most of his background was still a mystery, but there were plenty of rumors that he was involved with illegal business. People also acted like he was the kneecap-breaking type, and though I\u2019d seen little evidence of this, I didn\u2019t find it surprising. In Russia, they called him Zemy: the serpent. While I stared at him in astonishment, my mom strolled over to my side. \u201cHe\u2019ll be happy you made it in time,\u201d she said. \u201cHe was running some big wager on whether you\u2019d show. He put his money on you, if that makes you feel any better.\u201d I groaned. \u201cOf course. Of course he\u2019d be the bookie behind the pool. I should have known as soon as---- My jaw dropped. \u201cIs he talking to Adrian?\u201d Yup. Sitting beside Abe was Adrian Ivashkov---my more-or-less boyfriend. Adrian was a royal Moroi--- and another spirit user like Lissa. He\u2019d been crazy about me ever since we first met, but I\u2019d had eyes only for Dimitri. After the failure in Russia, I\u2019d returned and promised to give Adrian a shot. To my surprise, things had been\u2026 good between us. Great, even. He\u2019d written me up a proposal of why dating him was a sound decision. It had included things like \u201cI\u2019ll give up cigarettes unless I really, really need one\u201d and \u201cI\u2019ll unleash romantic surprises every week, such as: an impromptu picnic, roses, or a trip to Paris---but not actually any of those things because they\u2019re not surprises.\u201d It wasn\u2019t like it had been with Dimitri, but then, I supposed no two relationships could ever be exactly alike. I was still intent on trying to save Dimitri, but that didn\u2019t mean my romantic life was over---something it had taken me a while to accept. Adrian made me happy. And for now, that was enough. But that didn\u2019t necessarily mean I wanted him cozying up to my pirate mobster father, either. \u201cHe\u2019s a bad influence!\u201d I protested. My mother snorted. \u201cI doubt Adrian will influence Abe that much.\u201d \u201cNot Adrian! Abe. Adrian\u2019s trying to be on good behavior. Abe will mess everything up.\u201d Along with smoking, Adrian had sworn he\u2019d quit drinking and other vices in his dating proposal. I squinted across the crowded stands at him and Abe, trying to figure out what topic could be so interesting ...more OK this is what i think is going to happen . Rose and lisa will have some close calls with dimitri trying to get to her. but the part that people dont understand is that dimitri WONT kill rose but turn her . i know he said it like a million times but he wont . why do you think he's forgivin her all those times she's tried to kill him . when she was going to kill her self by jumping off the bridge , he was pleading her not to and saved her from falling . why would he do that if he wanted her dead OK this is what i think is going to happen . Rose and lisa will have some close calls with dimitri trying to get to her. but the part that people dont understand is that dimitri WONT kill rose but turn her . i know he said it like a million times but he wont . why do you think he's forgivin her all those times she's tried to kill him . when she was going to kill her self by jumping off the bridge , he was pleading her not to and saved her from falling . why would he do that if he wanted her dead. I still be believe he loves her deep down . But people expect some kind of miracle that even though he is bad he would be kind and loving . DUH!!!! he's not , but for a Strigoi he is pretty caring. he says he need her to take over that place they were in but he doesnt and didnt . he thinks he does because he still loves her . that's why he left for russia . like that he doesnt have to think about the choice of killing her or changing her. i do think Rose will save dimitri . remember in shadow kiss rose tell's dimitri everything thats going on an he says she'll always have him and that he'll help her through it ,well when they save dimitri he is going to feel crappy about all the people he's killed. Rose will help him through it and maybe when they turn him back he will turn into a Moroi .and so they could have children in a near future. If the author doesnt kill Adrian , i think she will hook him up with mia since she always wanted to be royal ,and she's nice now ,i think it would be good for both. christian and lissa will be together of course and eddie will hook up with jill , they'll make a cute couple. i also think the queen has something to do with the attempts on lisa life. she'll probably turn out to be bad . and lisa will become very powerful and give moroi the choice to train , and dhampirs a choice to have personal lives . BUT MY BIGGEST HOPE IS FOR DIMITRI AND ROSE ..COME ON RICHELLE MEAD ......GIVE US THIS ONE !!!!!!!! lol ...more My Thoughts: I was very excited to read the 5th book in the Vampire Academy series. After what went down in Blood Promise , I knew that either Dimitri would die or he would become dhampire again. I also welcomed a return to Rose's relationship with Lissa & becoming reaquainted with other supporting characters that were mostly absent in BP. While it's true that the Dimitri problem was solved & I caught up with the gang, I wish I had've stopped at Blood Promise. First, I didn't like how Adria My Thoughts: I was very excited to read the 5th book in the Vampire Academy series. After what went down in Blood Promise , I knew that either Dimitri would die or he would become dhampire again. I also welcomed a return to Rose's relationship with Lissa & becoming reaquainted with other supporting characters that were mostly absent in BP. While it's true that the Dimitri problem was solved & I caught up with the gang, I wish I had've stopped at Blood Promise. First, I didn't like how Adrian turned into a doormat in this novel. He's always been a little beta male but it's outrageous how much shit he let Rose get away with during their relationship. Every time he forgave her for running all over his feelings, I had an image in my head of him holding Rose's purse. That's what Adrian's role in this novel was. The guy who hold's Rose's purse & gets her out of trouble. Second, I am so over the Lissa/Christian relationship. They have got to be one of the most boring ass couples I've ever read about. I know this series is marketed to young adults but Lissa & Christian acted like 12-year-olds who'd just discovered sex. Ugh. Not to mention, Lissa is a debbie ho cake! I didn't really see it in previous novels because she was doing her own thing & the stars of the series have always been Rose & Dimitri for me but now I see the light! All these men want you & you've got to move in on your bestfriends ex-boyfriend? She tried to make it seem motherly, but this is the same chick who loves to flick her blonde hair, fluff up her pubescent boobies, & stick her tongue down the nearest guys throat every time she see's Christian talking to another women. Your just a slut-in-the-making, admit it. My biggest issues with this novel are about Rose. In the beginning of this series, I thought her budding romance with Dimitri was sweet & yummy but now it's getting old. Prepare yourself for a mini rant. I hated Rose in this novel! She's so freaking selfish & I can't believe I didn't notice it before. I'm thinking I ignored her faults in previous novels because the storyline was still good but here, there was nothing but Rose & her bs. She constantly put herself & others in danger over her whims. I don't care about her going off to get killed but you've gotta have alot of balls (aka stupidity) not to think twice about getting other people killed repeatedly . If that's not bad enough, NO ONE calls her out on her actions. Eddie gave her the cold shoulder for letting Victor to go free (because she was too busy giving lustful kiddie cow-eyes to Evil Dimitri) for about two seconds but then it was back to \"hey your my best friend ever!\". Rose also went on a temper tantrum like every other chapter. Bitch, you need to sit you hyper butt down & take some Ambien. Even when Lissa called her out for arguing with Non-Evil-But-Now-Emo Dimitri in public, Rose felt the need to give them angry glares to \"let her anger known\". It's not all about you, Rose! I think that was her biggest problem. Everything was about her! Forget people dying, forget Victor being let loose to wreck havoc, forget ruining the lives of the friends who were stupid enough to help you. Hell, forget Non-Evil-But-Now-Emo Dimitri repeatedly telling her he doesn't want her childish butt anymore! It's about her, her, her. I wanted to knock Rose's face in so many times in this novel that I had to play Ghost Recon just to let out my anger. As for Dimitri, I think he went overkill on the Emo. He doesn't want to be with Rose because he tortured/sexed/drugged her when he was evil but if the chica is stupid enough to still want you, take it! Stop feeling so sorry for yourself when you've got another chance at life! The one thing I agreed with Rose about was how messed up it was that Non-Evil-But-Now-Emo Dimitri looked at Ho Cake Lissa as his savior & totally diregarded Rose's part. She did almost everything to save him & all Lissa did was push a stake in. Now to the ending. I kind of saw Rose's incarceration happening. She opened her big fat ass mouth way too much about Queen Tatiana for something bad not to go down. That's something else I don't get. When Rose was busy cursing out Queen T at the meeting or whatever it was called, it seemed like Mead was trying to say \"Hey, look at Rose! Isn't she such a badass, talking crap to the Queen?\" But all I really thought was \"this chick is more stupid/idiotic than I thought she was, which was ALOT. STFU, Rose!\". And then there's Rose's own descent into slutdom. NEBNE Dimitri rejected her yet again, & what does she decide to do? Run off to poor Adrian to give him her goodies! And when they don't have a condom, she decides to go to the next low & become a blood whore. Why is she a blood whore? Because she didn't decide to have sex with Adrian out of love, but because she felt sorry for herself. Poor poor Adrian, relegated to 2nd best. *shakes head* No, actually he was always second best to the great Dimitri (in Rose's eyes). Nevermind. Even when Rose was in the clink, she found a way to blame others for her messed up decisions. SHE decided to spring Victor from jail. SHE decided not to kill Dimitri for the umpteenth time. SHE decided to say every little thing she was thinking & say it in front of strangers. But oh no, it's not her fault! It's Abe's fault, the judges fault, the deceased Queen T's fault. Hell, its even the fault of the dust bunnies under Rose's bed but never Rose. Not once in this novel did Rose take responsibility for her actions, other than the rare \"I'm sorry\" before she did the same crap over & over again. She doesn't freaking learn! I don't even have the satisfaction of knowing she'll be in the clink for murder because from Abe's cryptic words, he'll save her (like everyone else) & bust her out anyway. I used to love Vampire Academy but I am over this series now. I don't like anyone but Adrian & even he is getting on my nerves the slightest bit. There was a time when I couldn't wait until the next book in this series came out but in Mead's attempt to make the characters seem cool & hip, she turned them all into conceited dumbasses. I'll Wikipedia Last Sacrifice or read friend's reviews if I have to, but I am not spending one more minute of my time on this series. Even if Rose magically redeems herself in LS, it's a little too late for me to give a shit. On a side note, I was going to include the things I liked about this novel in my review but I didn't. Days after reading this, I can't remember a damn thing I liked. Maybe someone will refresh my memory. ...more Can't wait to start reading Last Sacrifice!! \u201cIf I could dream, I know I'd dream about you.I'd dream about the way you smell and how your dark hair feels like silk between my fingers. I'd dream about the smoothness of your skin and the fierceness of your lips when we kiss. Without dreams,I have to be content with my own imagination.\u201d There's that Vampire Academy flair that was missing from book #4. Richelle mead did it again folks! Another outstanding VA novel to hook the reader in. My only dilemma is that i only have one book left! Me \u201cIf I could dream, I know I'd dream about you.I'd dream about the way you smell and how your dark hair feels like silk between my fingers. I'd dream about the smoothness of your skin and the fierceness of your lips when we kiss. Without dreams,I have to be content with my own imagination.\u201d There's that Vampire Academy flair that was missing from book #4. Richelle mead did it again folks! Another outstanding VA novel to hook the reader in. My only dilemma is that i only have one book left! Meaning i literally read this entire series in under two weeks! Although loving every, heart stopping, breath taking moment of this adventure, it makes me kinda sad that im one book away from parting with these amazing characters, and a world i've grown so invested in. In novel #5 of the VA, Rose Hathaway is back at school and ready to take her final trials to determine not only her guardianship, but the rest of her life. Finding out about her father's true identity, the growing closeness to her mother and the growing possibility that someone out there has actually been able to heal a Stigori using a rare magic known as spirit, Rose finally has hope. Unfortunately that hope/information also lies in the hands of convicted criminal, Victor Dashkov, who was imprisoned for crimes against the last Dragomir princess, spirit user and Rose's best friend, Lissa Dragomir. Unfortunately that's not Rose's only problem, her ex-lover/instructor , Dimitri who was forcibly turned Stigori somehow managed to survive the stake and plunge into raging waters, and is now hunting her for revenge, having been unsuccessful in convincing her that Stigori immortality was better than anything she could ever imagine, he plans to end her life forever. I loved this book, it had that quick paced, action packed madness that i love. Both loving and hating how the VA world is slowly changing, but i think i can see where it will finally end up, or least i hope with Lissa Dragomir becoming more powerful than i ever thought possible. I love Lissa's character, i love her use of spirit, although some areas like her dream walking are lacking, i love the fact that she can heal so strongly (view spoiler) [And bring someone back once turned Stigori! If that isn't gonna shake up the Moroi/ Dhampir/Stigori world i honestly dont know what will. (hide spoiler) ] Lissa has been a favourite of mine from the start, although her spirit has consequences such as depression, irrational thinking and at times self harm, her bond with Rose and the love of those around her help ease the pain. And that's quite relatable to readers, especially those having suffered and overcome depression. Her relationship with Christian, i mean come on, these two are destined to be together, their understanding and personalities balance each other out, almost like yin yang. I also find i prefer Rose with Adrian rather than Dimitri. Her relationship with Dimitri has always been complicated and just feels like its going nowhere, besides Rose desperately hanging on. I think the thing that bothers me the most is her lack of judgement and clear thinking when it comes to Dimitri. Wanting to be a guardian and protect Lissa is all she's ever really wanted, well.. besides Dimitri and all his attached drama. I find Adrian to be a more suitable match, although he comes from a royal Moroi bloodline, and most of the Moroi /Dhampir relationships dont last, i think they are cute and work well together, if Rose would just let go of her feelings for Dimitri that is. That's the whole reason she's never fully given herself to Adrian, and honestly.. i pity him alittle bit, although he could have anyone, he wants only her and all throughout her silly Dimitri fiasco he has tried to be understanding to how she feels, not push her, or compulse her into doing anything she doesn't want to do or feel. \u201cWhat are you, Rose Hathaway? Are you real? You're a dream within a dream. I'm afraid touching you will make me wake up. You'll disappear.\u201d Team Adrian! GOD DAMN, THAT ENDING! I did not see that shit coming you guys! I'll be hiding this via spoiler to save those who might not have read this series yet but DAMN, you will not be disappointed in this gobsmacking plot twist! (view spoiler) [ Rose gets arrested for treason as a result of Queen Tatiana finally meeting her fate with a stake..WHAT?! And not having this happened for hundreds of years, someone's gotta a bigger game plan in mind for both Rose and the Moroi world by the look of things. (hide spoiler) ] Rose's father makes another reappearance although im not sure how i feel about Abe yet. Not having a relationship with my own father, i honestly dont know how i would feel having to be face to face with him if ever accused of something as devastating as Rose has, let alone letting him speak on my behalf. Though Abe is powerful, and kind at times, his constantly being referenced to snakes, or Zemy as they call him, doesn't give me alot of confidence with him; or whatever business he actually deals with, which is implied to be some kinda gangsta, thug who beats people and plays games to get what he wants. Also, why not have something, even contact with the daughter he helped produce? Hopefully i'll get all the answers i'm seek in the final novel of the amazing series. I have mixed feeling going into the last book , but i have total and complete faith that Richelle Mead will outdo herself once again in the final novel, to wrap up and tie this series together with a perfect little bow on top. Wish me luck! Recommend for: Vampire lovers, YA fiction, Supernatural romance. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more 4 1/2 stars Wow, a gripping story, heartbreaking, complex and intriguing. One major and really my only complaint: did we really need an unbelievable and uncomfortable love triangle??? Is that really neccessary in every teen book now? The one Rose loves and cannot have who we all know really does love her, but is being noble and putting her aside for her own good(who does he think he is, Edward Cullen?) so she takes up with the place-holder, in this case, out of anger/spite/grief. Puh-leez, the gir 4 1/2 stars Wow, a gripping story, heartbreaking, complex and intriguing. One major and really my only complaint: did we really need an unbelievable and uncomfortable love triangle??? Is that really neccessary in every teen book now? The one Rose loves and cannot have who we all know really does love her, but is being noble and putting her aside for her own good(who does he think he is, Edward Cullen?) so she takes up with the place-holder, in this case, out of anger/spite/grief. Puh-leez, the girl is sad and upset so her only option is to do the dirtiest of the dirty(in Rose's own words) with another guy. Yuck, so sad for such a strong female character to do something so truly s.t.u.p.i.d. Suddenly it seems that Rose doesn't know her own mind and when did she become this way? The appeal of Rose has always been how strong she was in what she wanted. She feels very out of character in her dealings with Adrian, very needy and self-centered. It just feels off and I didn't like it. At. All. I felt that all the growth and maturity that Rose had gained over the past four books was simply tossed aside and we were given the stupid girl who must have a guy in her life, even if she doesn't feel anything more than some gratitude and sexual chemistry for the stand-in. This was a re-read for me, so I was more aware of these little bits that show Rose isn't being herself or being very honest with herself and completely out of character. P.13: \"The love we\u2019d shared always burned within me, no matter how often I told myself to move on, no matter how much the world did think I\u2019d moved on. He was always with me, always on my mind, always making me question myself.\" She hasn't changed in her feeling about Dimitri one iota. He is still the one she thinks of constantly. P. 23: \". . . Adrian Ivashkov ---my more-or-less boyfriend.\" That says it all, more-or-less. LOL P 158: \" You\u2019re an idiot, Rose. It was my own voice that chastised me in my head, not Lissa\u2019s. You\u2019ve given him no reason to help. Your just hurt him again and again. Just like you did Mason. \" A moment of clarity when the real Rose seems to show up, but sadly this epiphany isn't lasting. P. 224: \u201cI still . . . I still want us to work,\u201d I said meekly. \u201cI would still try, even if he were back. I just had a hard time letting someone I care about go.\u201d Why does she say this when even she has to know there is not truth to it? I don't understand why the character of Rose would say this. P 225: \"Adrian was right, and that was a damned scary thing to admit. I\u2019d had my shot. I\u2019d made my gamble to save Dimitri and it had failed. . . . I really did have to treat Dimitri the way everyone else did: He was dead. I had to move on.\" But still, she doesn't. Even she doesn't believe in what she's saying to herself. P. 248: \"Dimitri always left my heart full of pain and longing, but I still wanted Adrian in my life.\" Why? Just so we can have a love triangle? P. 305: \"It was Dimitri. I would do anything for him.\" 'Nuff said. p. 318: \"Adrian. There was a problem. I hadn\u2019t had a chance to see him since getting back after the warehouse fight. And aside from hearing about him healing others, I really hadn\u2019t thought about him at all. I\u2019d said that if Dimitri really could be saved, it didn\u2019t mean the end of Adrian and me. Yet, Dimitri had barely been back twenty-four hours, and here, I was already obsessing, ov\u2014\" Look at that again. She really hadn't thought of him at all . And yet she is constantly thinking of Dimitri. P. 326: \"That made me smile. It also piqued my interest. I wanted to talk to her more about what had happened during her visit to Dimitri and knew she\u2019d been avoiding me because of it. If going to some silly royal ritual or whatever it was could get me to her, then so much the better.\" Her only real reason for going out with Adrian to a party is so she can grill Lissa about her visit with Dimitri. She has no desire to go until Adrian mentions that so there is no motivation for Rose to be around him. She thinks only of Dimitri. P. 362: \"As for the rest . . . the part about him no longer loving me or being able to love anyone . . . well, that would be a different problem all together if it were true. Both Christian and Adrian had worried there would be some piece of Strigoi left in him but their fears had been about violence and bloodshed. No one would have guessed this: that living as a Strigoi had hardened his heart, killing any chance of him loving anyone. Killing any chance of him loving me . And I was pretty sure that if that was the case, then part of me would die too.\" If that were true. She still doesn't really believe that she and Dimitri are truly over. She still is holding on to him. P. 421: \"Protests rose to my lips, but once more, I stopped them. He was right. I\u2019d said I\u2019d give dating him a fair shot. I\u2019d even sunk into the comfortable role of his girlfriend, yet the whole time . . . the whole time, part of me had been consumed with Dimitri. I\u2019d known it too but had kept living split lives. A weird flashback to my time with Mason popped into my head. I\u2019d led the same double life with him, and he\u2019d died for it. I was a mess. I didn\u2019t know my own heart.\" What bothered me about this statement is that Rose does know her own heart. She knows exactly what she wants and it isn't Adrian. She is not confused. She wants Dimitri. We're being told that she doesn't know her own heart, but all of her actions indicate otherwise. The love triangle is just made-up noise and distraction. P 438: \"Maybe it was some psychological reaction to Dimitri\u2019s rejection.\" Ya think? P. 444 \"Some tiny part of me said that even thought I\u2019d wanted this and cared about Adrian, thew hole act had been wrong. I hadn\u2019t done it for the right reasons, instead letting myself get carried away by my own grief and confusion.\" In the part of her brain not high from the bite, she knows what she just did was for all the wrong reasons, not so much about Adrian as about Dimitri. Having almost-sex really should be about the guy she's having almost-sex with and not the other one that she loves and can't stop thinking about. P. 448: Reluctantly, I looked over at him. As always, he swept my breath away. Stop it, Rose , I scolded myself. You\u2019re mad at him, remember? And now you\u2019ve chosen Adrian. \" What bothers me most about this thought is that Rose never chose Adrian. She is with him by default as the man she loves says he doesn't love her. That isn't a choice, it's merely making the best of things. Adrian deserved better than that. As did the Rose from the last four books. This one just feels like she's regressed to where she's almost unrecognizable. She has seems to have completely forgotten that she's moved beyond this kind of behavior or I thought she had. Disappointing that she's back to this. That huge objection aside, this is a good installment in the series. I enjoy how characters mentioned in the past pop up in the books and the way characters grow and change. I liked how tenacious Rose is where Dimitri is concerened, how she will not give up on saving him and Lissa really found her strength and determination in this book, which was finally good to see. I liked her interaction with Christian and how they worked together. *edit* Rose is the definition of the unreliable narrator. She says she thinks or feels one thing, but actually doesn't. Okay. I get it. I can't wait for the grand finale. (Rose and Dimitri has better end up together or there's going to be a rumble.) ...more I find it very challenging to review this book because it was good in so many ways that can\u2019t be explained without spoilers. But worry not, this review is Spirit Bound Spoilers Free. I will do my best to express you the passion I felt reading this book, but I\u2019m afraid it\u2019s beyond what words can explain. Spirit Bound starts back at the Academy, it\u2019s finally graduation time and Rose has only one more challenge in front of her: The Trials. A final exam planned by guardians to test their ability to p I find it very challenging to review this book because it was good in so many ways that can\u2019t be explained without spoilers. But worry not, this review is Spirit Bound Spoilers Free. I will do my best to express you the passion I felt reading this book, but I\u2019m afraid it\u2019s beyond what words can explain. Spirit Bound starts back at the Academy, it\u2019s finally graduation time and Rose has only one more challenge in front of her: The Trials. A final exam planned by guardians to test their ability to protect Moroi \u201cin the real world\u201d. But what worries Rose the most is the after-graduation. She always thought it rimed with freedom but reality hit her in the face. She will spend her life protecting Moroi and her own desires won\u2019t matter anymore. There\u2019s not only the weight of responsibilities though, she knows Dimitri is out there, lurking in shadows, waiting for an opportunity to kill her. In this installment, Rose is more determined than ever and will use extremely illegal ways to reach her objectives. Desperation to save Dimitri, while she still can, drives her actions and consequences won\u2019t be light. She is not risking only her future and her life but also the ones of people she loves. When we love a book, we all say \u201cI couldn\u2019t put it down\u201d, well in this case, I loved the book so much I HAD to put it down and take deep breaths because it was just too much. Love, Passion, Treason, Fear, Sadness, Grief, all these emotions laid on paper in a so intense way it almost became unbearable. At times I couldn\u2019t believe my own eyes, events happening in that book triggered reactions in me that are beyond words! I really love both Rose and Lissa for their very distinct qualities, and even though they are very different, they have one thing in common: they would do anything for each other. Adrian is as snarky as ever but we get to discover a new side to him. I really like the guy and it\u2019s clear he cares about Rose and I loved to watch them together. Dimitri, oh Dimitri! He broke my heart in Blood Promise and Spirit Bound wasn\u2019t any easier. At times I really felt like hitting him in the head to knock some sense into him and even though I would have a lot to say, I won\u2019t spill the beans and ruin surprises. I will mention though that chapters 20 and 24 nearly killed me. I was glad that Abe was in SB, he didn\u2019t play a major role but it was nice to have him around and I think he will have a bigger role in The Last Sacrifice. The end is as usual a cliff hanger, if suspense could kill Richelle Mead would be in danger of trial for massive murder, because I really don\u2019t know how I will be able to wait until December to know how this epic story ends. Vampire Academy is my favorite series and Richelle delivered. Spirit Bound was action-packed, full of surprises, emotions and magic. I was in awe so many times during this book, it really was fabulous. I think Shadow Kiss is still my favorite of the series because I\u2019m such a romantic but Spirit Bound is very close second. I really hope Rose will have her happy ending in The Last Sacrifice (even though the title doesn\u2019t point that way), she\u2019s been through so much, she really deserves her happily ever after. ...more", "Title": "Spirit Bound"},
