{"Comments": "I read this years ago, I think it was back around 2005 or so. I remember liking the book fairly well,<---M> even though I'd never read Jane Eyre</---M>, and a modest part of the book's plot touches on that story. But I also remember being irritated at the book. Something made me bristle when I read it. Some elements of the storytelling rubbed me the wrong way. I remember talking to the person who recommended the book to me. I held it book up and said, rather disdainfully. \"This is probably really popular, is I read this years ago, I think it was back around 2005 or so. I remember liking the book fairly well, even though I'd never read Jane Eyre, and a modest part of the book's plot touches on that story. But I also remember being irritated at the book. Something made me bristle when I read it. Some elements of the storytelling rubbed me the wrong way. I remember talking to the person who recommended the book to me. I held it book up and said, rather disdainfully. \"This is probably really popular, isn't it?\" My friend, who worked in a bookstore, said that no, actually, it wasn't all that popular. And as soon as she said that, I liked the book more.<---F> Thinking back, this memory disturbs me</---F>. And not only because it revealed a disturbing tendency towards the bullshit hipster I-only-like-things-nobody-else-likes mindset. Worse than that, I think it shows that I was getting a bit twisted up inside because of my inability to get my book published. You see, by the time 2005 rolled around, I'd been working on The Name of the Wind for about 11 years. 3 of those years I'd had an agent, and had been really *really* trying to get published. And it wasn't going so well. Well... actually that's not true. It was going well because I was on the road to being the published author I am today. But I didn't know that in 2005. Back then, all I knew is that I wasn't published *yet* and because of that, I was getting a little bitter. Well... to be fair, I was probably more than a little bitter. I was twisted up enough inside that even the perceived success of a book was enough to make it unpalatable to me. Which is a real shame, because jump forward to now, and I've been listening to the series as an audiobook and enjoying it immensely. It's well written and quickly paced. There's both humor and wit in ample supply. And the world is a delightfully tounge-in-cheek wish fulfillment alternate earth where the entire populace is passionately engaged in literature. There are museums dedicated to authors, political parties court the Chaucer block of voters, and Baconians go door to door, trying to convert people to their philosophy: namely, that Fredrick Bacon is the man who *actually* penned the plays credited to Shakespeare. Short version: If you're a recovering English major, or if you're just well read, odds are you're going to enjoy this book. Ditto if you're a writer... provided you're not the sort of twisted up bitter type of writer I was back in 2005. ...more I had the same feeling after reading this as I had after reading The Looking Glass Wars . Fabulous idea, terrible execution. I was going to give it one more star than I gave that because it's not quite as badly written. And I liked the idea of door-to-door Baconians and Rocky Horror ized Richard III . But I changed my mind because the more I think about it, the more I didn't like it. It was so smug and cutesy and in need of better editing. And it would have been better served by not being written in I had the same feeling after reading this as I had after reading The Looking Glass Wars . Fabulous idea, terrible execution. I was going to give it one more star than I gave that because it's not quite as badly written. And I liked the idea of door-to-door Baconians and Rocky Horror ized Richard III . But I changed my mind because the more I think about it, the more I didn't like it. It was so smug and cutesy and in need of better editing. And it would have been better served by not being written in first person, especially since it kept slipping into other people's heads when it should have been in Thursday's. Also, Thursday is really boring and doesn't have an interesting voice, and I didn't care about her at all (and, ick, that moment where she gets out her mirror and contemplates her looks). The same goes for most of the other characters. The only one I really liked was Thursday's father, and he barely had anything to do with anything. And the villain! How utterly boring. Villains are only interesting if they're something beyond mwahahaa so evil. And it was just a mess. So much random crap was going on that seemed to have nothing to do with anything. And I could have lived without the \"romance\" which was just yawningly boring and tacked on. And the names. Ugh. I wanted to stab my brain out having to read some of those awful names. Most people seem to adore this book and the rest of the series, but I thought it was pretty terrible. Maybe the writing gets better in later books, but I don't think I'll give them a chance. Very disappointing. ...more I've been storing up some venom for this review, so be prepared. First of all, I want to unleash my fury on whoever in the Rory Gilmore Book Club suggested this book as February's pick. To go from such a brilliant read as Jane Eyre to this was frustrating to say the least. It highlighted all the amateurish contrivances of Fforde's writing. I rolled my eyes so many times in the first four chapters, that I nearly gave myself a headache. And no, I'm sure it doesn't get better after that, that's jus I've been storing up some venom for this review, so be prepared. First of all, I want to unleash my fury on whoever in the Rory Gilmore Book Club suggested this book as February's pick. To go from such a brilliant read as Jane Eyre to this was frustrating to say the least. It highlighted all the amateurish contrivances of Fforde's writing. I rolled my eyes so many times in the first four chapters, that I nearly gave myself a headache. And no, I'm sure it doesn't get better after that, that's just where I officially banished the book from my sight. Here are my major problems with the part I read. 1. Okay, you're enterting this alternate reality world where many things are similar but different from what we know. As Fforde might assume that not all of his readers would be British, or familiar with UK current events/history, perhaps he could have given us a little more to go on, so that the reader could appreciate the weirdness of this other world, without going, \"Umm...from the way that's said, I'm assuming that's not how it happened in real life.\" 2. <---C>Thursday Next</---C>. Seriously? Thursday Next. That just screams: \"I'm writing a strong yet lovably flawed female gumshoe destined to drag you through book after book of literary-themed exploits.\" Her character was so stereotypical I could have written it with my eyes closed. 3. The time-travelling father. 4. If a book is written in first-person, and you really, REALLY want us to know what the character looks like, it is textbook cliche to have her pull out a mirror and describe what she sees. Puh-lease. 5. Finally, the clincher at the end of chapter four (I think. I wasn't paying all THAT much attention), but the straw that made me put away the book for good is that Fforde CLEVERLY (I felt like the whole of the book was trying just a little too hard to be clever) had Thursday narrate what had happened in her confrontation with her nemesis by putting her in an interrogation setting, where she has to tell the police investigators (and us, conveniently) what happened prior to her month-long coma. Okay, that in and of itself is not so bad, what kills me is when the only difference between what she says into the tape recorder and what she says in her narration of any other part of the book is the double quotation marks. Seriously, no one answers an investigator's question of, \"So what happened next,\" by saying, \"'What do you think you're doing?' I said. 'It's time for me to make my exit,' he answered with a smile.\" People write books like that. They don't talk like that. It was ridiculous. Anyway, I guess I wouldn't be so annoyed with this book, except that it's supposed to be \"delightful\" for bibliophiles because it assumes all this familiarity with the classics, yet anyone who had read said classics would inevitably chafe under the obvious inferiority of this freshman attempt. ...more Have I become a jaded reader? I sometimes catch myself muttering in the middle of a long series of yawns, \u201cHaven\u2019t I read this plot/character/technique before?\u201d Or when the author describes their setting, I will lazily flip through my mental inventory of backdrops until, sure enough, I find an old one that it is a good enough fit to reuse. Then Fforde comes along and throws the literary equivalent of a bucket of Arctic cold water in my face. I found myself having to actually work to keep up with Have I become a jaded reader? I sometimes catch myself muttering in the middle of a long series of yawns, \u201cHaven\u2019t I read this plot/character/technique before?\u201d Or when the author describes their setting, I will lazily flip through my mental inventory of backdrops until, sure enough, I find an old one that it is a good enough fit to reuse. Then Fforde comes along and throws the literary equivalent of a bucket of Arctic cold water in my face. I found myself having to actually work to keep up with his creativity and humor. It was one of those amazing reciprocal relationships where the other party\u2019s enthusiasm spurs you to try harder, which encourages them to go further, which forces you to run faster. At the same time, I was struck by how nonchalantly he presented the large and potentially confusing differences between our world and his. I also appreciated the attention he gave to the nitty-gritty level of his world. There were details so small that if you blinked, you\u2019d miss them. As a result, I found myself reading each sentence carefully, word for word, and taking the time to create mental images from scratch. Here are some rough examples of what I\u2019ve come to expect when I read a ho-hum book contrasted with the twists, both small and large, that Fforde introduced. Example 1 Expected : Her name was Theresa Newton. Received : Her name was Thursday Next. Example 2 Expected : Theresa took her dog for a walk. Received : Thursday took her dodo for a walk. Example 3 Expected : Theresa boarded the plane for a trip home. Received : Thursday boarded the airship for a trip home. Example 4 Expected : Theresa opened the book and sat down for a nice, afternoon read. Received : Thursday opened her book and fell into its alternate reality for a few months. Example 5 Expected : Theresa\u2019s dad stopped by the cafe and complained about her mom\u2019s indecision about which color to paint their bedroom. Received : Thursday\u2019s dad stopped time to appear out of nowhere in the middle of the caf\u00e9 and complained about the new shade of red her mother would paint their bedroom in two weeks time, which he saw when he visited the future. You get the point. I guess it all goes back to something I mentioned earlier: the reciprocal relationship. There are so many different layers to Fforde\u2019s world-building. And he allows his readers to engage as deeply or superficially as they prefer. If you want to dive in, Fforde has those hidden nuggets for you to enjoy. Or if you want to invest your time just understanding the big points and push past the nuances, you\u2019ll still come away satisfied. I\u2019d personally recommend the all-in approach. ...more This is so much fun. I want to play too! And, as it happens, I have a surprisingly good opening. So, with the usual perfunctory apologies, may I present The Meyre Affair: a Thursday Next story The hardest part is telling them they're fictional. After that, the rest is usually easy. - Thursday Next, A Life in SpecOps I could start this story at any number of points, but I will choose the moment when I knocked on Manny Rayner's front door. Nothing happened, so I knocked again. He opened it. The rest o This is so much fun. I want to play too! And, as it happens, I have a surprisingly good opening. So, with the usual perfunctory apologies, may I present The Meyre Affair: a Thursday Next story The hardest part is telling them they're fictional. After that, the rest is usually easy. - Thursday Next, A Life in SpecOps I could start this story at any number of points, but I will choose the moment when I knocked on Manny Rayner's front door. Nothing happened, so I knocked again. He opened it. The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons) ...more I loved this book when I first picked it up and remember giggling the whole way through. (It was passed over to me by the Mum, of all people. We do not, normally, share the same taste in literature.) It has a charming irreverent take on... well... everything from literature to history. It's set in an alternate reality where literature is, if not kind, at least very very significant. Buddy read with Jessica , Robin , Catherine , Kristi , Asya and Tanya . I apologize if I missed somebody; in case I did please let me know and I will add you. The book version of mid-eighties England is a fine dystopian society. The literature is a very serious business, time travel is nothing of the ordinary which comes with all the fun and paradoxes and cloning works wonders making people's favorite pets out of these guys: The heroine Thursday Next is a special operative working for literary detecti Buddy read with Jessica , Robin , Catherine , Kristi , Asya and Tanya . I apologize if I missed somebody; in case I did please let me know and I will add you. The book version of mid-eighties England is a fine dystopian society. The literature is a very serious business, time travel is nothing of the ordinary which comes with all the fun and paradoxes and cloning works wonders making people's favorite pets out of these guys: The heroine Thursday Next is a special operative working for literary detection dealing with such heinous crimes as forging of a poem of a classic, theft of highly valued original manuscripts, and copyright violations. What started as fairly unremarkable theft of an original Dickens manuscript turned out to be a work of a criminal mastermind (who reminded me of a cross between Lord Voldemort and Dr. Evil from Austin Powers movies) who will stop at nothing to show the world how evil he is. I will give a hint: when it comes to being evil, he makes Darth Vader look like a daycare thug. Thursday soon learns that \"Lost in a good book\" is more than just a nice saying: The only reason I rated this book with 3 stars instead of 2 is the discussion with my buddy readers which turned out to be great fun. There were some amusing parts and references with I would miss had I read this book by my lonely self. As I mentioned there were enough amusing moments in the book to qualify it as belonging to humor genre. Unfortunately it was not my type of humor. I always found myself unable to laugh at the situations where innocent bystanders are getting killed in amusing ways by the villains while the noble heroes are protected by the plot armor. It is all fun and games unless you happened to be that bystander. I found the character of Thursday Next to be quite shallow. I learned that she suffers from PSD: she is a veteran of Crimea War - in the book England is still at war with Russia over Crimea which took place between 1853 and 1856 in reality. Ask me to name something else about Thursday and I will be at complete loss. I mentioned amusing moments. They are unfortunately not too noticeable between author's self-admiration of how clever his writing is and countless uses of deux ex machina. The latter was used so freely and often that I could not see the point of the novel until the second half of it. I do admit that some of the complaints I made are related to the fact that this is not my kind of book and I understand people who gave it 5 stars. I also admit that I have not read Jane Eyre (please don't hurt me!) and this fact also diminished my enjoyment of it. At least it made me read the plot summary of the classic I mentioned. This is a good thing, right? Right? In the conclusion I would like to thank my buddy readers who made the read much more pleasant experience. Thank you!!! ...more This is a thoroughly delightful and brilliant book. I chuckled and chortled all the way through this book; it\u2019s hilarious. There are many interesting characters and I am eager to read the rest of this series. I\u2019m not sure that the successive books will also get 5 stars from me: the clever premise might get a tad old; I\u2019ll have to see. This unusual story is a bit difficult to define. It fits multiple genres: sci-fi, mystery, humor, fantasy, and fiction. And the author manages to create an entire This is a thoroughly delightful and brilliant book. I chuckled and chortled all the way through this book; it\u2019s hilarious. There are many interesting characters and I am eager to read the rest of this series. I\u2019m not sure that the successive books will also get 5 stars from me: the clever premise might get a tad old; I\u2019ll have to see. This unusual story is a bit difficult to define. It fits multiple genres: sci-fi, mystery, humor, fantasy, and fiction. And the author manages to create an entire alternate world, which is something I often enjoy in books when it\u2019s done well, and it\u2019s done exceedingly well here, and with a lot of whimsy. I am now a <---A>Jasper Fforde</---A> fan: he really pulled off a unique feat in creating this book/series. I suspect I missed some of the references as I have gaps in my knowledge of England and of literature, but I caught enough of the inside jokes to be entertained. I especially enjoyed the portions of the book that were told with Thursday\u2019s voice. (For some reason I kept feeling as though Sue Grafton\u2019s Kinsey Millhone was in Back to the Future. Anyway, it was all a great deal of fun.) Although I loved the book, I suspect that this book is not for everybody. My guess is that a reader would have had to enjoy at least one book from each of the genres listed above to enjoy reading it as much as I did. ...more (Violence alert: The body count is high, plus some grossness factor.) It\u2019s a spy thriller. No, wait \u2014 it\u2019s science fiction. No, wait \u2014 it\u2019s literary criticism. No, wait \u2014 it\u2019s art history. No, wait \u2014 it\u2019s historical-political commentary. No, wait \u2014 it\u2019s romantic comedy. No, wait \u2014 it\u2019s an epic war drama. No, wait \u2014 it\u2019s \u2014 oh, look \u2014 Japanese tourists! While I applaud the spirit of many of the directions this novel takes, you kind of have to wonder if the author could have focused just a tad bit mo (Violence alert: The body count is high, plus some grossness factor.) It\u2019s a spy thriller. No, wait \u2014 it\u2019s science fiction. No, wait \u2014 it\u2019s literary criticism. No, wait \u2014 it\u2019s art history. No, wait \u2014 it\u2019s historical-political commentary. No, wait \u2014 it\u2019s romantic comedy. No, wait \u2014 it\u2019s an epic war drama. No, wait \u2014 it\u2019s \u2014 oh, look \u2014 Japanese tourists! While I applaud the spirit of many of the directions this novel takes, you kind of have to wonder if the author could have focused just a tad bit more... So here\u2019s the interesting aspect of this novel: Fforde envisions an alternate reality in which wars are (literally) waged over ideas, a fantasy in which literature and art are at the center of people\u2019s daily concerns. In one incidental moment, the main character turns on the TV in her hotel room; a news reporter is reporting on riots that broke out while Neoclassicists were protesting the 10-year anniversary of the legalization of Surrealism. Eventually (three-quarters of the way through the novel), the main event occurs: an English professor gone bad kidnaps Jane Eyre from page 100-something of the original manuscript, erasing the text of the remaining pages from all copies of the book and causing millions of Jane Eyre fans to come out of the woodwork and hold weepy candlelight vigils. Our heroine, LiteraTec (literary detective) Thursday Next, must restore Jane to her rightful place in the novel, keep the evil villian away from Miss Eyre, and supervise the plot from inside the book as the book \"rewrites\" itself. Things go awry, of course, and the original manuscript is compromised \u2014 but with felicitous consequences for Miss Eyre, Mr. Rochester, and Jane Eyre fans everywhere. Of course, the author of a book like this must hope to capitalize on a pre-existing Jane Eyre fan base...but the danger in writing derivative literary fiction is that, while your book may be a perfectly good book in many ways, you are putting your reader in mind of really great literature, next to which your book is doomed to lose by comparison. And as the plot of Jane Eyre droned on from Thursday Next's perspective, I couldn\u2019t help thinking, \"I\u2019d rather be reading Jane Eyre.\" The final twist in the love story is, I have to admit, cute \u2014 but not cute enough for me to recommend the book, at least not to someone exactly like me. However, if a heavy dose of violence doesn\u2019t make you queasy and you can hold on for a roller-coaster ride of genre-bending twists and turns, you might enjoy the cleverness of it. ...more Close the prose portal, the worms are about to start hyphenating! Hey! Everyone! This is a pretty awesome literature nerd's playground. :) I kinda expected something like a UF first-person mystery novel with magical elements where characters jump out of the pages of books and make a mess of things, or vice-versa, where we jump in and make a hash of a perfectly good story, but I didn't expect the novel to have a lot of complicated character elements in our main characters, a nicely complicated plot Close the prose portal, the worms are about to start hyphenating! Hey! Everyone! This is a pretty awesome literature nerd's playground. :) I kinda expected something like a UF first-person mystery novel with magical elements where characters jump out of the pages of books and make a mess of things, or vice-versa, where we jump in and make a hash of a perfectly good story, but I didn't expect the novel to have a lot of complicated character elements in our main characters, a nicely complicated plot that continues to twist and turn through a LOT more than just the Bronte Society or Jane, herself. And what might be better? Oh, the whole World-Building of the Spec-Ops and the very interesting alternate dimension physics, the whole spy networks associated with missing manuscripts, the Shakespeare Conspiracy, and a (literarily) enormous amount of Lit-Nerd In-Jokes not limited only to conversation, but built right into the world we're thrown into. So is it fantasy, SF (Come on, plasma beams and jumping dimesions lol), a dream of an Editorial Superman or the Wish Fulfilment of every Writer Who Is Also A Fan? Could be it's all of the above. :) This is some really cool fun that reads like a mystery turned into a spy novel, full of magical and SF moments, and a huge focus on characters. What's not to love? ...more I didn't enjoy this. It tries too hard to be clever and to cover many different genres (humour, sci fi, horror, detective, literary and more) whilst also being annoyingly silly. After 100 pages I ditched it - something I rarely do. Thursday Next is a woman who is a literary detective in one of several alternative realities round about now. In hers, the Crimean War is still going. Somehow, in her society, manuscripts are stolen and guns are involved; she also manages to get into books and meet cha I didn't enjoy this. It tries too hard to be clever and to cover many different genres (humour, sci fi, horror, detective, literary and more) whilst also being annoyingly silly. After 100 pages I ditched it - something I rarely do. Thursday Next is a woman who is a literary detective in one of several alternative realities round about now. In hers, the Crimean War is still going. Somehow, in her society, manuscripts are stolen and guns are involved; she also manages to get into books and meet characters in them, though I was never convinced as to why any of it happened. WHO... WHY...? I don't understand who this book is written for. You need a love and knowledge of classic literature to know what is our reality and what is an alternative (e.g. whether or not Jane Eyre does marry Rochester), but having those characteristics would seem to me to make one unlikely to enjoy this, though as that is clearly not the case, I am in a minority and evidently missing something. It has a surprisingly colloquial narrative style for a self-consciously \"literary\" book; jarring Americanisms (a \"parking lot\") for a British book; basic grammatical errors (using \"flaunt\" instead of \"flout\"); too much exposition is delivered in clich\u00e9d ways (e.g. a police interview); ludicrous names (Jack Schitt, Acheron Hades (a baddie), Thursday Next, Victor Analogy, a vampire called Stoker, Edmund Capillary and Landen Park-Laine) and even sillier futuristic inventions (pizza by fax and a 2B pencil with built in spell check). Anthony Trollope had a penchant for jokey names, but at least he restricted them to minor characters and made up for it in other ways. This book doesn't. ...more Sadly, I found this book to be a major disappointment. I'm huge fan of British comedy and science fiction--Monty Python, Douglas Adams, Dr. Who, Neil Gaiman--and something of an autodidact lit geek, so this novel which promises the exploits of a special agent who has to travel into the novel Jane Eyre in pursuit of a villain sounds right up my alley. So, what went wrong? Let's start with the world building. While Fforde's alternate universe England is quite inventive, it's also tonally weird. Eng Sadly, I found this book to be a major disappointment. I'm huge fan of British comedy and science fiction--Monty Python, Douglas Adams, Dr. Who, Neil Gaiman--and something of an autodidact lit geek, so this novel which promises the exploits of a special agent who has to travel into the novel Jane Eyre in pursuit of a villain sounds right up my alley. So, what went wrong? Let's start with the world building. While Fforde's alternate universe England is quite inventive, it's also tonally weird. England has been locked in the Crimean War all the way into the present day (circa 1985), with no end in sight, and the government appears to be controlled by a large corporation dubbed (unsubtly) the Goliath Corporation. OK, so this is some sort of dystopia, right? But wait, thanks to cloning, scientists have been able to bring dodos out of extinction, and it turns out that they make great pets! Like, OMG!, is that cute or what? <+++>The Eyre Affair</+++> may be the only dystopic novel I've read in which the Breads and Circuses are intended as much for the reader as for the regime's subjects. (Oh, if only Big Brother had thought to provide everyone with messenger owls, 1984 could have been a much more amusing novel!) Second, there's the use of names. As Roger Ebert once said, \"Funny names, in general, are a sign of desperation.\" I'd like to amend that slightly to say, it's really a bad idea for a novel to feature characters whose names are vastly more interesting than their personalities. Heroine Thursday Next gets a pass, as does main baddy Acheron Hades, but I can't think of anything funny about Paige Turner, Victor Analogy or Alexandria Belfridge. Oh, and let me just say, Acheron Hades' motivation to engage in villainy for no reason because pointless wickedness is the purest form of wickedness? I know it's supposed to make him seem particularly evil, but it just makes him seem arbitrary. I kept expecting the revelation that he was an escapee from a second-rate potboiler. The biggest failure, though, is how panderingly <+++>The Eyre Affair</+++> wields its metatextuality. Dead British authors are like celebrities in Fforde's England. People change their names to John Milton out of devotion. Robo-Shakespeares quote the bard from every corner. Surrealists somehow manage to spark riots. (This joins with the whole Crimean War aspect to give the sense that England is terribly stagnant. None of the authors that inspire devotion ever saw the 20th century. And surrealism is controversial enough to spark riots? Really, how very quaint.) The scene that really put me off, and which should have inspired me to quit the novel, was the performance of a Rocky Horror version of Richard III, after which a couple of the characters discuss how much they love classic literature. There's something a little jarring about seeing a camped up production of Shakespeare held up as an expression of deep love, as if the Thursday Nextiverse (or even Fforde himself) completely misses the point of camp. Does Fforde think people bring cutlery to midnight showings of The Room because they feel Tommy Wiseau is an auteur? It may be hyperliterate in its use of references, but the effect often feels superficial. In the action revolving around the titular novel, Jane Eyre is reduced to a damsel in distress and Rochester to a straightforward hero, the complex characters I so loved in their original context reduced to cardboard cutouts. Fforde is like a lobotomized Borges, finding ways to dumb down the literature he loves instead of finding new and interesting depths. So, sorry, just did not enjoy this novel. I have to confess though, if I ever got a hold of one of those devices to travel into literature, you know the first thing I'd do? Carpet bomb Fforde's England with copies of every major modernist and postmodernist work from the last century. I'd like to think I'd be treated as a liberator. ...more (The much longer full review can be found at the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com].) It's no secret that I'm a big fan of the literary genre known as \"speculative\" fiction; for those not familiar with it, the genre primarily concerns itself with historical questions of \"what if?\" What if the South had won the Civil War, for example, or the Nazis World War II? What if computers, robots and nuclear weapons had been invented in the 1840s instead of the 1940s? It is a gr (The much longer full review can be found at the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com].) It's no secret that I'm a big fan of the literary genre known as \"speculative\" fiction; for those not familiar with it, the genre primarily concerns itself with historical questions of \"what if?\" What if the South had won the Civil War, for example, or the Nazis World War II? What if computers, robots and nuclear weapons had been invented in the 1840s instead of the 1940s? It is a great genre for those intrigued by the issues raised in science-fiction, but who do not care for the more hard-edged fetishes of that particular genre (the spaceships, the lasers, the aliens); because ultimately speculative fiction relies a lot more on real history and sociology for its ultimate entertainment value than most traditional sci-fi, making it a good place to regularly find big crossover hits. One such hit, for example, has turned out to be the delightful 2002 speculative novel The Eyre Affair , by the Douglas-Adamsesque Jasper Fforde; it has in fact inspired an entire series of popular novels since then set in the same speculative universe, collectively known as the \"Thursday Next\" series because of its main protagonist. The latest, First Among Sequels , just came out this summer; I've heard a lot of great things about all the books in the series, so thought I'd start at the beginning and finally experience them for myself. And man, what a speculative world this turns out to be -- it is an entire alternate Earth that Fforde creates, in fact, one much like ours in many ways but with there also being telling differences. Like... --In Fforde's world, Russia never had a Soviet revolution, and is still run by the Tsarist royal family; --As a result, England and Russia have been fighting the Crimean War for 131 years now, the entire thing turning into a Vietnam-like unwinnable mess that neither side can politically walk away from anymore; --As a result of that , England in Fforde's world never reaches Empire status, with among the results being a fiercely independent and antagonistic Republic of Wales, as well as a virtual police state in England itself, put in place by an all-consuming private corporation called Goliath; --It is in some respects a book nerd's dream world, a world where obscure Victorian authors are considered rock stars, and the argument over whether Shakespeare really existed or not one that spills over into street gangs and organized religions; --And it is also a world where several topics we consider \"supernatural\" are to them very real and even blase -- a world that has perfected cloning, a world where time travel is an accepted reality (if not a highly controlled activity), with a series of secret government divisions in charge of regulating and policing the various industries involved. We as the readers, then... ...more Buddy read with the ever amazing Jessica , Evgeny , Catherine , Kristi, , Asya & Tanya and running commentary with oOSarahOo and Ashley who announced they are stalking our thread (not very good at stalking since we know they are there) over at Buddies Books and Baubles Think about your favorite book\u2026the one you would live in if you could\u2026the one you would never ever get tired of or want leave. Do you have it firmly in your mind??? Now imagine a world where others love books as much as you and th Buddy read with the ever amazing Jessica , Evgeny , Catherine , Kristi, , Asya & Tanya and running commentary with oOSarahOo and Ashley who announced they are stalking our thread (not very good at stalking since we know they are there) over at Buddies Books and Baubles Think about your favorite book\u2026the one you would live in if you could\u2026the one you would never ever get tired of or want leave. Do you have it firmly in your mind??? Now imagine a world where others love books as much as you and they have found a way to travel inside the pages of said book OR pull characters out. THIS is a world I would love to go to THIS is a world made amazing by things like: \u2718 Cloning kits for extinct species \u2013 Thursday has a pet Dodo version 1.2 you know before they started spicing in flamingos and other species. \u2718 Bad guys who are somewhat similar to HE-WHO-MUST-NOT-BE-NAMED - He has powers that are slightly baffling. That\u2019s why we can\u2019t say his name. I call it Rule Number One.\u201d \u201cHis name? Why not?\u201d \u201cBecause he can hear his own name\u2014even whispered\u2014over a thousand-yard radius, perhaps more. He uses it to sense our presence.\u201d \u2718 Genetically sequenced bookworms that have a semi conscience hive mind and eat prepositions and poop out punctuation, more so when they get excited. \"they had just digested a recent meal of prepositions and were happily farting out apostrophes and ampersands; the air was heav'y with th'em&\" \u2718 An uncle with wonderous and magical inventions in his basement lab including a car with a cameleon paint job. \u2718 A world where people don\u2019t talk about what is on the television so much as they debate over who really wrote the works of Shakespeare and there are a good many theories floating around on that one. \u2718 Plays that have cult followings like the Rocky Horror Picture show and the audience participates in the entire production. \u201cWhen is the winter of our discontent?\u201d \u201cNow,\u201d replied Richard with a cruel smile, \u201cis the winter of our discontent . . .\u201d \u201c. . . made glorious summer by this son of York,\u201d continued Richard, limping to the side of the stage. On the word \u201c summer\u201d six hundred people placed sunglasses on and looked up at an imaginary sun. \u2718 Thursday also has a father whose face it seems could stop time like literally. - My father had a face that could stop a clock. I don\u2019t mean that he was ugly or anything; it was a phrase the ChronoGuard used to describe someone who had the power to reduce time to an ultraslow trickle. This book is for book lovers, like serious book lovers. It has a gazillion little play on words, literary references, and random shout outs to books that it was a fantastic treat for me. It would still be pretty enjoyable if you didn\u2019t know a lot about most of the books mentioned but it is a little more fun if you are in on the hidden gems. The plot really didn\u2019t start happening until the second half of the book but I was having such a good time with all the fantastical gadgets, references and happenings that I didn\u2019t really care. However I totally enjoyed myself and liked the little bit of romance, chase of the bad guy and trip through the pages of Jane Eyre. I had a great time reading this and much like Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy there are a lot of random happenings that end up leading down a path to the plot eventually. It isn\u2019t something I can read everyday but when in the correct mood it is a wonderful adventure. This book wraps up nicely so that you could just stop the series here or chose to carry on. ...more This is not a noir style detective story set in a big city underworld. This is a fun romp set in a Thatcherless Britain complete with time travel, genetically resurrected dodo birds, a Crimeean War that has been going on for more than 100 years, huge zeppelins instead of planes, crazy inventor uncles and lost in time fathers, street gangs made of bookclub members fighting for the good name of their favorite author, costume opera archenemies and about 30 secret police organizations. One of them i This is not a noir style detective story set in a big city underworld. This is a fun romp set in a Thatcherless Britain complete with time travel, genetically resurrected dodo birds, a Crimeean War that has been going on for more than 100 years, huge zeppelins instead of planes, crazy inventor uncles and lost in time fathers, street gangs made of bookclub members fighting for the good name of their favorite author, costume opera archenemies and about 30 secret police organizations. One of them is in charge of literary forgeries and our heroine is an agent curiously named Thursday Next, a spunky thirty something specializing in 19th century novels, sport cars, guns, pet dodos and piano playing. The plot is more like a spoof of crime genre where the bad guy has dark designs on the characters from Jane Eyre novels and one of the most pressing questions of the day is who really wrote Shakespeare's plays. I'm looking forward to the next Next adventure. ...more I resisted reading this book for quite awhile, but thankfully, my friend Lisa (LisaVegan), kept bugging me about it! I thought that I would not appreciate it as I have never read Jane Eyre . But, Lisa is right, you do not have to know anything about Jane Eyre to understand this book. I am thankful to Lisa, and to Goodreads, because I probably would have never stumbled upon this delightful book otherwise, as I rarely visit the SF shelves at the library. I only found one annoyance while reading-- \"the I resisted reading this book for quite awhile, but thankfully, my friend Lisa (LisaVegan), kept bugging me about it! I thought that I would not appreciate it as I have never read Jane Eyre . But, Lisa is right, you do not have to know anything about Jane Eyre to understand this book. I am thankful to Lisa, and to Goodreads, because I probably would have never stumbled upon this delightful book otherwise, as I rarely visit the SF shelves at the library. I only found one annoyance while reading-- \"their\" is used at one point where it should have been \"there\". (p. 272 in my copy) That there was only this one annoyance is rather good, as I am finding more and more misspelled and misused words nowadays. (I blame computer spell-check!) This book is full of tongue-in-cheek references (characters named Braxton Hicks, Runcible Spoon,and Mycroft for example.) The book also takes place in an alternate universe where the Crimean War is still being fought, and there are special operatives such as the Chrono-guard and the Literary Detectives as well as others. It is definitely a fun read! Two of my favorite parts (that are NOT spoilers): 1. The first is the scene where two of the main characters, Thursday Next and Landon Parke-Laine attend a showing of the play of Richard III that is reminiscent of Rocky Horror Picture Show with the audience shouting lines at the actors. (Example: the audience shouts \" When is the winter of our discontent?\" just before the actor playing Richard intones \"Now is the winter of our discontent.\") 2. The second part that I enjoyed immensely is a chapter heading (for chapter 20) that purportedly is an excerpt from an article written by Mycroft Next in the New Splicer magazine: \"...Several people have asked me where I find the large quantity of prepositions that I need to keep my Bookworms fit and well. The answer is, of course, that I use omitted prepositions, of which, when mixed with dropped definite articles make a nourishing food. There are a superabundance of these in the English language. Journey's End , for instance, has one omitted preposition and two definite articles: the end of the journey . There are many other examples, too, such as bedside ( the side of the bed ) and streetcorner ( the corner of the street ), and so forth. If I run short I head to my local newspapers, where omitted prepositions can be found in The Toad's headlines every day. As for the worm's waste products, these are chiefly composed of apostrophes--something that is becoming a problem--I saw a notice yesterday that read: Cauliflower's, three shilling's each... \" This particularly gave me a laugh, as I feel that the bookworms must be active in our world as well--I have been much perturbed at the frequent usage of misplaced apostrophes. There are many more parts of the book that are noteworthy. This is a very fun read, and I look forward to reading the next books in the series, as well as his nursery rhyme series. ...more What fun! An alternate history universe where people are so invested in literature as to fight over it, such as the damn Baconians saying he wrote Shakespeare's plays when it's obvious that he couldn't have (Thursday cogently argues this at one point.) & whole societies devoted to various authors. There are no planes, just 'gas bags', but there are cars & guns. Other things vary, such as Wales is a separate Communist state & the Crimean War is over a century old & still going str What fun! An alternate history universe where people are so invested in literature as to fight over it, such as the damn Baconians saying he wrote Shakespeare's plays when it's obvious that he couldn't have (Thursday cogently argues this at one point.) & whole societies devoted to various authors. There are no planes, just 'gas bags', but there are cars & guns. Other things vary, such as Wales is a separate Communist state & the Crimean War is over a century old & still going strong. England also has quite a number of Special Branches keeping the peace. Our heroine, Thursday Next, is a member of Special Branch #27 for literature. She's self-effacing, has an extraordinarily complicated personal life, a pet dodo (version 1.2), a father on the run from the Chrono cops, & a slightly mad inventor for an uncle. (The dodo complicates her life very little.) She's veteran of Crimea & was a cop for a while, so when Acheron Hades starts threatening literature, she's tenacious in tracking him down & setting things back to rights despite all. If you're familiar with Jane Eyre , you might think you'll know what happens. Well, you'll have a clue, but it probably won't happen the way you think. I chuckled often as the plot twisted wonderfully. Very well written & read. I'm planning on listening to another soon. Highly recommended. ...more \"Somehow \u2018Fucked up\u2019 made it seem more believable; we all make mistakes at some time in our lives, some more than others. It is only when the cost is counted in human lives that people really take notice.\" This book was a recommendation that arose from a discussion about a non-fiction book about extinction. I have a slight obsession with dodos and had to read The Eyre Affair because of it. \"I had been with Boswell and SO-27 for eight years, living in a Maida Vale apartment with Pickwick, a regene \"Somehow \u2018Fucked up\u2019 made it seem more believable; we all make mistakes at some time in our lives, some more than others. It is only when the cost is counted in human lives that people really take notice.\" This book was a recommendation that arose from a discussion about a non-fiction book about extinction. I have a slight obsession with dodos and had to read The Eyre Affair because of it. \"I had been with Boswell and SO-27 for eight years, living in a Maida Vale apartment with Pickwick, a regenerated pet dodo left over from the days when reverse extinction was all the rage and you could buy home cloning kits over the counter.\" And, yes, I want one. \"I used the time to get up to date with some reading, filing, mending the car, and also \u2013 because of the new legislation \u2013 to register Pickwick as a pet rather than a wild dodo. I took him to the town hall where a veterinary inspector studied the once-extinct bird very carefully. Pickwick stared back forlornly, as he, in common with most pets, didn\u2019t fancy the vet much. \u2018Plock-plock,\u2019 said Pickwick nervously as the inspector expertly clipped the large brass ring around his ankle.\" However, inconceivable as it may sound, there is much more to enjoy in this book, because as it turned out, this is not a book about dodos, but about a world in which time travel is possible and - hold on to your hats - where it is possible to enter books and physically meet characters. With great power, comes great responsibility, and there even is a special police unit that deals with works of literature - and the misuse and mistreatment of manuscripts and characters. And why would you think such a unit is required? Because some villain might take it into his mind to hold the world at ransom and kidnap a beloved character. So, this is where our heroine, Thursday Next, comes in to save the world from the destruction of literature and life as we love it. It is shocking and distressing to even think about such villainy, so best to soothe the mind with another quotation about the adorable Pickwick: \"I left Chester\u2019s owner and the official arguing together and took Pickwick for a waddle in the park. I let him off the lead and he chased a few pigeons before fraternising with some feral dodos who were cooling their feet in the pond. They splashed excitedly and made quiet plock plock noises to one another until it was time to go home.\" > ...more I wanted to like it, it sounded like a good idea, but I didn't. --------------------------------------- Okay, I've tried to read this three times before and could never get into it. My wife liked it and so did several others I know so....got the audio this time and I'll try again. ---------------------------------------------------------------- I can't say I like this book. As noted before I have tried at least 3 times to read it because some of it's fans are so thrilled with it that I keep having I wanted to like it, it sounded like a good idea, but I didn't. --------------------------------------- Okay, I've tried to read this three times before and could never get into it. My wife liked it and so did several others I know so....got the audio this time and I'll try again. ---------------------------------------------------------------- I can't say I like this book. As noted before I have tried at least 3 times to read it because some of it's fans are so thrilled with it that I keep having it recommended. There are books that are like that for me, books that I just can't fathom someone not liking. But it happens. As I said I don't really like this book...but I like much of it. I'd describe it as a good idea wrapped in convoluted story telling occasionally pushing simplistic ideas while interweaving a potentially interesting narrative replete with humor that runs the gamut from very funny to groaningly bad. So....If you can stand the long slow parts where Jasper Fforde indulges his urge to evangelize for his questionable political insight and handle the interludes of interaction that gives us familial relations and the abbreviated romance (and I'm so glad it was abbreviated as an added long involved romance would have finished me and I'd have put the book aside again) as you get through to the plot and characters you might enjoy this book...or like me enjoy part of it. Of course to be fair many probably REALLY like the very parts of the novel that had me ripping my hair out (and I can't afford to lose any more hair). Some I'm sure will be rolling on the floor laughing at what had me rolling my eyes. So...this one splits the vote for me. Try it yourself. Some of it, the main idea, the approach I find very enjoyable. Some parts I find yawningly and (as noted before) groaningly slow. Will I try another Thursday Next novel???? I don't know yet. As always I'm pretty backed up on \"to read\" books but again I have friends who assure me I'll like some of the later ones better! So, I'll probably try at least one (since I finally got through this one). Maybe some of your reviews will decide me? Anyway try this one yourself...it's really a matter of personal taste....really. ...more In theory, this book is the prefect fit for me--alternate universe, a mix of sci-fi and fantasy, time travel, a world that heavily features books, plenty of pop and lit references, plenty of book puns, wry humor. But in actuality it fell short, or rather, the execution fell short, and was more tedious than it was fun. The writing felt heavy-handed at several points in the story and that made it a slow read for me. Even though I finished it only a couple of weeks ago, I'm having trouble recalling In theory, this book is the prefect fit for me--alternate universe, a mix of sci-fi and fantasy, time travel, a world that heavily features books, plenty of pop and lit references, plenty of book puns, wry humor. But in actuality it fell short, or rather, the execution fell short, and was more tedious than it was fun. The writing felt heavy-handed at several points in the story and that made it a slow read for me. Even though I finished it only a couple of weeks ago, I'm having trouble recalling much of the plot and characters. They're all fine, I suppose, but easy to forget. While I can see this book being a hit with fans of Brit lit (all those puns), the only thing that still stands out to me is the way in which the ending of Jane Eyre is explained and worked into the plot. That was clever and unexpected. (view spoiler) [The main reason this book didn't work for me? I found myself siding with the villain all the way to the slow slogging end because I sympathized with his comical \"plight\" and immense disdain for the classics. I myself used to fantasize about setting those piles ablaze back in my days at school. Am not a fan of the canon or the British classics, you see. I hope that's not too obvious. (hide spoiler) ] Full review at https://covers2covers.wordpress.com/2... ...more Fun! and I think I am part of the intended audience. I am definitely an Anglophile. I enjoy English literature and humor with that touch of the fantastic. I have no issue with a bit of time travel or people and characters moving in and out of literary favorites. I am willing to suspend my disbelief in service of such a good read. This is definitely an alternate reality, a police state of sorts but with this literary difference. This really was a romp! I enjoy the concept of the flexibility of the Fun! and I think I am part of the intended audience. I am definitely an Anglophile. I enjoy English literature and humor with that touch of the fantastic. I have no issue with a bit of time travel or people and characters moving in and out of literary favorites. I am willing to suspend my disbelief in service of such a good read. This is definitely an alternate reality, a police state of sorts but with this literary difference. This really was a romp! I enjoy the concept of the flexibility of the novels we read, that they can be warped or altered by malevolent forces. I will check out more of this series but I will wait a while. I have a feeling that reading these books too closely together or too frequently would diminish the enjoyment. After all, there can't be too many ways to perform some of these tricks...or can there? ...more 18.08.2015: I have an urge to re-read this series as it reflects today's world, what with the Cheese Wars and trouble in Crimea . The idea behind the Thursday Next series is really fantastic\u2014an alternate universe where the Crimean War still rages, the People's Republic of Wales has achieved a full and socialist independence, and LiteraTecs work to stop crimes against literature\u2014but unfortunately, the execution is lousy. What charm the book has, which is derived mostly from its literary allusions, and a kind of surreal invention that wouldn't look out of place in a Monty Python sketch, is unfortunately undermined by how am The idea behind the Thursday Next series is really fantastic\u2014an alternate universe where the Crimean War still rages, the People's Republic of Wales has achieved a full and socialist independence, and LiteraTecs work to stop crimes against literature\u2014but unfortunately, the execution is lousy. What charm the book has, which is derived mostly from its literary allusions, and a kind of surreal invention that wouldn't look out of place in a Monty Python sketch, is unfortunately undermined by how amateurish it all seems. There were several points during it where I couldn't believe that this was a final draft, because I've rarely seen a published novel more in need of a good editor. Plot, pacing, dialogue, characterisation\u2014everything was at the level that one would expect from the first draft of a book from a first-time writer. I mean, it's obvious there are occasions in the book where he's simply trying to parody the over-blown speech of villains and heroes in pulp novels, but much of the rest of his dialogue seems incredibly forced and unnatural. There were several clunkers which made me wince, because I really don't think that they were metafictional observations on the inevitable artificiality of all dialogue. A mess, made all the more disappointing because this could potentially had been a really enjoyable read, if a good editor had been set to work on it. ...more This was my third read and first listen, and it's still a five star read for me. Part of it is my love of Jane Eyre but part of it is just that it's clever, witty, occasionally cheeky, touching, fast-paced, adventurous FUN. The parts of the narrative that cross over with Jane Eyre are done with a great deal of love towards that particular book. Because of this, they feel not only real, but like you're meeting old friends in new and unexpected ways. It couldn't have been done better and I had happ This was my third read and first listen, and it's still a five star read for me. Part of it is my love of Jane Eyre but part of it is just that it's clever, witty, occasionally cheeky, touching, fast-paced, adventurous FUN. The parts of the narrative that cross over with Jane Eyre are done with a great deal of love towards that particular book. Because of this, they feel not only real, but like you're meeting old friends in new and unexpected ways. It couldn't have been done better and I had happy tears in my eyes several times. I highly recommend this book to everybody (and did get my in person group to read it...) for just an action-packed, fun read. I'm sure I'll read it many more times. ...more Dear Mr. Fforde, You are a very clever writer, and I\u2019m sure you know it; your plotting, however, leaves something to be desired. I have had some difficulty reconciling the witty, bantering tone of your novel The Eyre Affair with its hardboiled plotline and tendency to shift focus without warning. Also, you should note that just because you inserted exposition into the beginning of each chapter and labeled it as an excerpt from an imaginary biography or memoir does not for one second make it anyth Dear Mr. Fforde, You are a very clever writer, and I\u2019m sure you know it; your plotting, however, leaves something to be desired. I have had some difficulty reconciling the witty, bantering tone of your novel The Eyre Affair with its hardboiled plotline and tendency to shift focus without warning. Also, you should note that just because you inserted exposition into the beginning of each chapter and labeled it as an excerpt from an imaginary biography or memoir does not for one second make it anything other than exposition, and rather dull exposition at that. Please don\u2019t take this the wrong way, because there were a lot of things I liked, even loved, about your book. The idea of an alternate history steeped in literary and artistic tradition so strong that it influences government policy-making and triggers riots is a wonderful concept, and your ability to convey this with a wink and a nod is great. And Thursday Next, your strong-but-conflicted protagonist, is a good foil to the silly Baconian door-to-door pamphleteers and reverse-engineered pet dodos. But that still leaves the problem of plot, which I don\u2019t think was quite as high up on your list of \u201cthings to do in my book.\u201d Much of the story was well-paced and enticing, but then we reach the actual \u201cEyre affair\u201d of the title, nearly four-fifths of the way through the book , and things get problematic, and not just for your spunky heroine. After Thursday\u2019s foray into the novel, which was very original and fun to read, the reader is suddenly thrust into a tangle of loose ends with astoundingly abrupt solutions. Thursday left the man she loves ten years ago? Of course they can get back together on his wedding day with less than a page of dialogue and a sorta-clever-but-really-cheesy plot hook stolen borrowed from Jane Eyre ! Thursday needs to escape the Goliath Corporation after she \u201clost\u201d their leader? Send a car that cleverly deposits her at the closing of another frayed plot string! These things really needed a little more effort, sir. I am willing, out of appreciation for your obvious love of literature, to give the next book in your series a try and hope that it resolves itself in a more coherent fashion Before closing, I will say that (view spoiler) [ the idea that Jane Eyre originally ended with her marrying (ugh) St. John Rivers, and only through Thursday\u2019s intervention was the novel rewritten to reunite Jane and Rochester, (hide spoiler) ] was a stroke of genius. Yours Truly, Moderately Entertained in VA ...more It is 1985 and the world isn't quite as we know it. Nor is history the same. There's a lot of odd things going on, otherwordly creatures are real, some people can go back and forth in time, literature is BIG, and the Crimean war has been going on since the 1800s. Thursday Next, a veteran of this war, now works for SpecOps (Special Operations) 27- the Literatec division. She's a kind of literature detective, and when the original manuscript of Martin Chuzzlewit vanishes, she is brought into a muc It is 1985 and the world isn't quite as we know it. Nor is history the same. There's a lot of odd things going on, otherwordly creatures are real, some people can go back and forth in time, literature is BIG, and the Crimean war has been going on since the 1800s. Thursday Next, a veteran of this war, now works for SpecOps (Special Operations) 27- the Literatec division. She's a kind of literature detective, and when the original manuscript of Martin Chuzzlewit vanishes, she is brought into a much bigger case involving her old Uni professor, Acheron Hades, now a master-mind criminal. Hades' plan is fairly simple: using Thursday's uncle's Prose Portal invention, he can kidnap characters from manuscripts and hold them to ransom. Literature being as important as it is in this world, you can bet he can demand millions. When his plan for Chuzzlewit doesn't go quite as planned, he steals the manuscript for Jane Eyre instead. In this story, the plot of Jane Eyre is a bit different. Namely, she marries her cousin St John and goes to India with him. Or Africa, wherever it was. Everyone agrees it's a disappointing ending, not least of all Rochester himself, whom Thursday has a few run-ins with. It seems popping in and out of books isn't so hard as you might think. I do have to wonder, though, at Thursday's run-down of the plot for her colleague's benefit, because I have to disagree on a few points: firstly, Rochester fell in love with Jane pretty much straight away, he just didn't show it; secondly, he never intended to marry Blanche Inghram, that was just a ploy to get Jane jealous and make her love him back; and maybe it's naive of me, and maybe it's the opposite, but I don't know that there's much proof that Adele was Rochester's \"love-child\". Anyway. The plot might seem a little confusing, because there's so much happening at once, but it's not. It's fast-paced and funny, and also highly original. I do have to question the curious use of a first-person omniscient narrator - though in this particular world, anything goes; it's just a bit odd to have scenes related in detail of which Thursday wasn't present for. Also, and this is a bit of a pet peeve of mine, when someone is retelling a situation that includes a conversation, no one says things like \"I stammered in reply\" and \"There was a pause. Acheron smiled.\" Seriously, this kind of thing is very distracting because it's so utterly implausible and unrealistic. Also, I don't know how much of literature or anything else you could learn from a book like this, which is at its heart mocking, and full of deviances. I wouldn't take anything for fact. But I loved the joke names, especially the (rather obvious) Jack Schitt - oh loads of fun there! Thursday's uncle, Mycroft Next, the inventor, is a bit like Q from the James Bond movies, but much more vague; anyway, his inventions are quite funny. The side-plot of the Crimean war adds a serious bent to the novel, and is plenty pertinent. In short, it wasn't quite what I was expecting but I enjoyed it immensely. I loved how the ending of Jane Eyre - one of my favourite books by the way - was changed to the one that we are familiar with sort-of by accident. And I loved the idea of the characters living the life of the story, over and over again, but able to do more or less as they liked when they weren't in the scene. Rochester was wonderful :) ...more \u00abCi sono cose pi\u00f9 importanti delle leggi e dei regolamenti. Le mode e i governi vanno e vengono, ma Jane Eyre \u00e8 per sempre. Darei qualunque cosa pur di portare in salvo quel romanzo\u00bb. Corteggiavo questo romanzo \u2013 Jane Eyre fa gi\u00e0 parte del mio corredo cromosomico \u2013 da molto tempo, ma non avevo il coraggio di acquistarlo, per paura di una delusione. Cos\u00ec, dove non arriva il portafoglio, arriva la biblioteca. E, dove c\u2019\u00e8 biblioteca, c\u2019\u00e8 gioia. Una gioia vieppi\u00f9 accresciuta dalla lettura di questa \u00abCi sono cose pi\u00f9 importanti delle leggi e dei regolamenti. Le mode e i governi vanno e vengono, ma Jane Eyre \u00e8 per sempre. Darei qualunque cosa pur di portare in salvo quel romanzo\u00bb. Corteggiavo questo romanzo \u2013 Jane Eyre fa gi\u00e0 parte del mio corredo cromosomico \u2013 da molto tempo, ma non avevo il coraggio di acquistarlo, per paura di una delusione. Cos\u00ec, dove non arriva il portafoglio, arriva la biblioteca. E, dove c\u2019\u00e8 biblioteca, c\u2019\u00e8 gioia. Una gioia vieppi\u00f9 accresciuta dalla lettura di questa delizia, un vero gioiellino per bibliofili, amanti dei paradossi temporali, appassionati di gialli, malati di Doctor Who . Un libro che, se attribuissi a Fforde capacit\u00e0 di preveggenza, direi: \u00e8 stato scritto per me. La vicenda \u00e8 ambientata nel 1985, ma non in quello che conosciamo. Nel 1985 immaginato da Fforde l\u2019Inghilterra \u00e8 in guerra con la Crimea da pi\u00f9 di cento anni, il Galles \u00e8 una repubblica indipendente, si pu\u00f2 viaggiare nel tempo ed esistono i DLett, agenti che si occupano di crimini \u201cletterari\u201d (falsificazioni di manoscritti, furti di prime edizioni, ecc.). Thursday Next \u00e8 una di loro, ma anche molto di pi\u00f9: veterana della campagna di Crimea, figlia di un ricercato della CronoGuardia, nipote di un geniale scienziato\u2026 Come se non bastasse, nella sua vita irrompono un famoso manoscritto (il Martin Chuzzlewit di Dickens) e il super-cattivo Acheron Hades. E Jane Eyre, vi chiederete, dov\u2019\u00e8? Questo vi lascio il piacere di scoprirlo. Ho adorato l\u2019ironia di cui \u00e8 intessuto il romanzo, l\u2019esuberanza citazionistica, le baruffe sull\u2019identit\u00e0 di Shakespeare, le goffe sparatorie, i cattivi teatrali e poco credibili. Tutte queste cose, che a occhi di altri potrebbero costituire un difetto, sono per me motivo per disegnare cuoricini nell\u2019aria: \u00e8 il gusto rotondo del trash letterario ben fatto, auto-consapevole e auto-ironico. Per mia fortuna, Fforde non si \u00e8 fermato a questo primo romanzo e neanche ai 76 rifiuti ricevuti: esiste, invece, un\u2019intera serie dedicata alle avventure della DLett Thursday, di cui la Marcos y Marcos ha pubblicato alcuni volumi. Con immensa gioia della sottoscritta e di tutti i lettori del mio stampo. ...more Yesterday, the most amazing thing happened to me: I was walking around in Jareer bookstore, browsing books, when all of a sudden I heard a pop. I looked in its direction, and saw a woman in her thirties, standing in front of me. I stared at her for a minute, not believing my eyes, for she looked very familiar. \"Ex-excuse me, are you Next?\" I asked her astonished. \"Next for what?\" She replied politely. \"No, no, Thursday Next,\" I corrected myself. \"What about next Thursday?\" She asked looking anno Yesterday, the most amazing thing happened to me: I was walking around in Jareer bookstore, browsing books, when all of a sudden I heard a pop. I looked in its direction, and saw a woman in her thirties, standing in front of me. I stared at her for a minute, not believing my eyes, for she looked very familiar. \"Ex-excuse me, are you Next?\" I asked her astonished. \"Next for what?\" She replied politely. \"No, no, Thursday Next,\" I corrected myself. \"What about next Thursday?\" She asked looking annoyed \"I meant is your name Thursday Next? You know, from the book, The Eyre Affair. You look awfully like her,\" I said embarrassingly. \"I was just pulling your leg,\" she said smiling, her eyes shining with laughter. \"Yes, I'm Thursday Next in the flesh.\" \"Oh, wow! Really?! I'm a huge, huge fan! But... but how is this possible? I mean I don't mean any disrespect, but you're um... fictional.\" \"Haven't you read my book? Don't you know that characters from different books can manifest into other worlds when the barrier is thin?\" \"I did! I did. I just never thought it applied to our dull as a butter knife world.\" \"Oh, every single world has its own spice, believe you me. You just have to search for it all the more harder, in some worlds.\" \"Well, welcome to our world Thursday. It's such a pleasure meeting you. Wow, I still can't believe it,\" I pinched my hand surreptitiously just to be sure. \"Say, there's a nearby coffee shop, can I invite you to a cup of coffee? I have so many things to ask you about: ChronoGuard, Jack Schitt, Hades...\" \"Slow down, slow down,\" she said laughing, \"you can ask me all you want. I don't have much to do in this world, anyway. I don't promise to answer everything, though.\" \"Fantastic! Like literally,\" I replied grinning like an idiot. \"We have to be careful, though; we have a SpecOps of our own called Haya'a, and they enforce misogyny, among other things.\" \"Sounds very bad.\" \"You have no idea.\" ...more An eccentric but charming book. I read it on my way to Mexico\u2014there was plenty of time, we missed our connection in Mexico City and had to buy a new ticket for much later in the evening. The tour leader who was expecting us is a charming Welshman, who had recommended Jasper Fforde to me a couple of years ago (on an earlier tour). It was time to be able to say that I had given it a try. I do think that a passing familiarity with Jane Eyre would be a good thing before picking up this novel, but eve An eccentric but charming book. I read it on my way to Mexico\u2014there was plenty of time, we missed our connection in Mexico City and had to buy a new ticket for much later in the evening. The tour leader who was expecting us is a charming Welshman, who had recommended Jasper Fforde to me a couple of years ago (on an earlier tour). It was time to be able to say that I had given it a try. I do think that a passing familiarity with Jane Eyre would be a good thing before picking up this novel, but even if you\u2019ve never even read the blurb of JE, you should still be able to find some amusement within. The humour reminded me somewhat of Douglas Adams\u2014very British and somewhat silly. I loved the pet dodos, the People\u2019s Republic of Wales, the \u201cnew\u201d ending to Jane Eyre , debates about Shakespeare, and the Literary Forces, among other details. Recommended for English majors, Bronte fans, Shakespeare buffs, and anyone else who has read widely in the classics, but is willing to be a bit silly. ...more This has been sitting on the shelf for a while, and I finally got around to it. I\u2019m glad I did. A wacky alternate reality tale for literature buffs, The Eyre Affair introduces LiteraTec detective Thursday Next, who must prevent a madman from kidnapping Jane Eyre out of her novel and destroying Charlotte Bronte\u2019s work. Dodos for pets, vampire hunters, hot air balloon transports, time travel, Baconian extremists . . . This book is a wild, eccentric ride. If you liked The Hitchhiker\u2019s Guide to the This has been sitting on the shelf for a while, and I finally got around to it. I\u2019m glad I did. A wacky alternate reality tale for literature buffs, The Eyre Affair introduces LiteraTec detective Thursday Next, who must prevent a madman from kidnapping Jane Eyre out of her novel and destroying Charlotte Bronte\u2019s work. Dodos for pets, vampire hunters, hot air balloon transports, time travel, Baconian extremists . . . This book is a wild, eccentric ride. If you liked The Hitchhiker\u2019s Guide to the Galaxy, I recommend this book. ...more", "Title": "The Eyre Affair"},
