{"Comments": "When I think of <+++>The Yiddish Policemen's Union</+++> , I can picture a complacent Chabon frequently patting his own back while writing this book. If he can come up with three ornamental ways to portray one thing, he includes all three of them in the book. He seems mighty pleased with his writing and probably believes in sharing his beautiful mind with everyone. He will leave you sitting on the edge of your seat with suspense, to furnish a leisurely description of the setting before moving on. Every litt When I think of <+++>The Yiddish Policemen's Union</+++> , I can picture a complacent Chabon frequently patting his own back while writing this book. If he can come up with three ornamental ways to portray one thing, he includes all three of them in the book. He seems mighty pleased with his writing and probably believes in sharing his beautiful mind with everyone. He will leave you sitting on the edge of your seat with suspense, to furnish a leisurely description of the setting before moving on.<---F> Every little thing</---F>. He will read as many details in the cracks in the wall as a palm-reader does in the lines of a hand. Err...wait! Do I sound like I am criticizing the book? Because I don't intend to. Honestly, I enjoyed reading this a lot (<---B>apart from slightly OD-ing on the bejeweled descriptions, that is</---B>). Chabon had my attention from the word go and the story never lost momentum. The alternate history is fully realized. Chabon does lean on some convenient co-incidences here and there, but for the most part the plot is well- conceived. The dialogue is crisp and snappy. And the characters! Whatever they do, they do with panache. It is almost as if each character has been given a role card which they are determined to follow till they are six feet under. Bina never drops her 'I am smarter than everyone else' attitude and detective Landsman performs his duty of being a full-time smart-ass with flair. A scene had people trying to shoot him, while he was running in sub zero temperature wearing only his underwear, but he refused to go down without letting fly a wisecrack or two. All in all it was light and good fun to read. Kavalier and Clay ! I look forward to seeing you sometime. ...more Oy vey! <---A>Michael Chabon</---A>\u2019s 2007 novel is about as original an alternative history as can be imagined: Israel collapsed in 1948 and a section of Alaska has been set aside for an extended Jewish territory. Within this setup, Chabon then goes on to tell a fun whodunit. Meshuganah! Like the best of Tom Wolfe\u2019s writing, Chabon\u2019s descriptive language and inventive style sets this apart from other alternate history books about Jews in Alaska. While the mystery can drag at times and this was longer than I wo Oy vey! Michael Chabon\u2019s 2007 novel is about as original an alternative history as can be imagined: Israel collapsed in 1948 and a section of Alaska has been set aside for an extended Jewish territory. Within this setup, Chabon then goes on to tell a fun whodunit. Meshuganah! Like the best of Tom Wolfe\u2019s writing, Chabon\u2019s descriptive language and inventive style sets this apart from other alternate history books about Jews in Alaska. While the mystery can drag at times and this was longer than I would have liked, what kept me going was the way in which the author told his story. Chabon\u2019s mastery of the narrative style, blending crime noir with Jewish cultural and sociological allusions, and also throwing in enough of the Native American Alaskan references to be freaky, this was a fun schlep. While there is plenty of Woody Allenesque kvetshing to please the stereotypical sensibilities, Chabon\u2019s dialogue and characterization are first rate. Chabon is such a wonderful mensch, should we not enjoy it? Fun for tribe as well as the goyim, it\u2019s an Alaskan Chagiga! L'chaim! ...more Rating: 4.75* of five The Book Report : For sixty years, Jewish refugees and their descendants have prospered in the Federal District of Sitka, a \"temporary\" safe haven created in the wake of revelations of the Holocaust and the shocking 1948 collapse of the fledgling state of Israel. Proud, grateful,<---M> and longing to be American</---M>, the Jews of the Sitka District have created their own little world in the Alaskan panhandle, a vibrant, gritty, soulful, and complex frontier city that moves to the music Rating: 4.75* of five The Book Report : For sixty years, Jewish refugees and their descendants have prospered in the Federal District of Sitka, a \"temporary\" safe haven created in the wake of revelations of the Holocaust and the shocking 1948 collapse of the fledgling state of Israel. Proud, grateful, and longing to be American, the Jews of the Sitka District have created their own little world in the Alaskan panhandle, a vibrant, gritty, soulful, and complex frontier city that moves to the music of Yiddish. For sixty years they have been left alone, neglected and half-forgotten in a backwater of history. Now the District is set to revert to Alaskan control, and their dream is coming to an end: once again the tides of history threaten to sweep them up and carry them off into the unknown. But homicide detective <---C>Meyer Landsman</---C> of the District Police has enough problems without worrying about the upcoming Reversion. His life is a shambles, his marriage a wreck, his career a disaster. He and his half-Tlingit partner, Berko Shemets, can't catch a break in any of their outstanding cases. Landsman's new supervisor is the love of his life\u2014and also his worst nightmare. And in the cheap hotel where he has washed up, someone has just committed a murder\u2014right under Landsman's nose. Out of habit, obligation, and a mysterious sense that it somehow offers him a shot at redeeming himself, Landsman begins to investigate the killing of his neighbor, a former chess prodigy. But when word comes down from on high that the case is to be dropped immediately, Landsman soon finds himself contending with all the powerful forces of faith, obsession, hopefulness, evil, and salvation that are his heritage\u2014and with the unfinished business of his marriage to Bina Gelbfish, the one person who understands his darkest fears. At once a gripping whodunit, a love story, an homage to 1940s noir, and an exploration of the mysteries of exile and redemption, The Yiddish Policemen's Union is a novel only Michael Chabon could have written. My Review : A small, overlooked historical tidbit...very real and true...gives rise to a what-if novel of huge impact and fascination. What if Roosevelt's half-serious proposal to resettle European Jewry in the American territory of Alaska, made in 1939, had been accepted? Millions of Jews forcibly relocated to the southern reaches of what was then virtually terra incognita ...living in the world's largest, most beautiful ghetto, at the mercy of a sixty-year term lease, and an American government that (one senses) was caught flat-footed by the plan's success. The novel opens as the lease is just about to expire...and the problems that presents to the world, to the people who have built a culture...yet again! changing the whole of their known world!...that now is under order of execution. All seen through the eyes of a policeman doing his job, in spite of the fact that the laws he's enforcing are set to vanish. It's fascinating. Superb book. Characters I could imagine living next door to, and enjoying the mishegas of their lives from a distance. A fascinating PoD for the alternate history buffs, a tiny footnote to history of a proposal that went nowhere in 1939 OTL. I felt fascinated by Chabon's exploration of this alternate history because it was never done \"historically\" but rather through the lives of the characters, their intertwined existences depended on *this particu;lar world* coming into being. That, ladeesngennlemun, is how it should be done. Side note, book won the 2008 Locus Award for best novel. And deservedly so. Also won the Sidewise Award for best long-form alternative history, the Nebula Award, the Hugo Award, and the BSFA Best Novel Award. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License . ...more My father's family is Polish-Jewish. My paternal grandmother was fluent in Yiddish, and whenever I see my parents they talk incessantly about Israeli politics. I must have read at least half of Isaac Bashevis Singer at one time or another. Also, I'm a chess player. I even knew the chess problem in question, and had read Nabokov's explanation in Speak, Memory of his thought processes as he constructed it. So how would it be possible for me not to love this book? But my reasons for loving it are s My father's family is Polish-Jewish. My paternal grandmother was fluent in Yiddish, and whenever I see my parents they talk incessantly about Israeli politics. I must have read at least half of Isaac Bashevis Singer at one time or another. Also, I'm a chess player. I even knew the chess problem in question, and had read Nabokov's explanation in Speak, Memory of his thought processes as he constructed it. So how would it be possible for me not to love this book? But my reasons for loving it are sufficiently unusual that I won't try to convince anyone else that they're necessarily going to feel the same way. Me and The Yiddish Policeman's Union just happen to be made for each other, and we're very happy together. ...more Many years ago, after I'd finished off The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay , one of my all-time favourites, I decided to follow up on my personal Chabon binge with The Yiddish Policeman's Union . For one reason or another, I made it about 50 pages deep and abandoned the entire book. I sat it next to its better known counterpart on a shelf where it would rest for many years. Then, suddenly, it became a book club pick and I saw it as a sign to dig in and give this book another kick at the Many years ago, after I'd finished off The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay , one of my all-time favourites, I decided to follow up on my personal Chabon binge with The Yiddish Policeman's Union . For one reason or another, I made it about 50 pages deep and abandoned the entire book. I sat it next to its better known counterpart on a shelf where it would rest for many years. Then, suddenly, it became a book club pick and I saw it as a sign to dig in and give this book another kick at the can. Luckily, it turned out to be a very rewarding experience! The Yiddish Policeman's Union is a major departure from The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay in that it is a detective story set in an alternate timeline where the Jewish populace settled in Sitka, Alaska rather than Israel following WWII. In short, this is one quirky book. It begins with a murder mystery, but quickly becomes a character study of Detective Meyer Landsman, his supporting cast, and this strange world. Sitka is fully realized and entirely believable, due to Chabon's world-building with alternate-timeline music, donut shops, neighbourhoods, and the disposition of his characters. Much has been made of Chabon's signature writing style, and he employs it here to pack readable and gorgeous packets of prose in between on-point dialogue. Meyer Landsman, the book's lead, is a relatable and interesting character who acts as the reader's guide through the novel. Though it all starts with a man catching a bullet in the back of the head, Jewish mythology, colourful characters, and a complex conspiracy lie in the path of Landsman's case. Though the plot becomes absurd at points, it is grounded by Landsman's consistent and biting perspective, as well as Chabon's realistic descriptive passages. The mystery is also supplemented with Landsman's tangly love life, and his life's intersection points with his partner, Berko Shemets. These ingredients all make for a story with real heart, and more than a few heartwarming moments. More than once, I thought of Midnight's Children by Salman Rushdie while reading The Yiddish Policeman's Union . Both employ religion and mythology to supplement the story in a fashion that helps to develop the culture and world that their characters inhabit. Yet both novels also, in my opinion, share the same flaw: they both go into territory that becomes esoteric for those not familiar with the subject matter. While I thought Chabon handled this much more effectively than Rushdie, there were still times where I had to pause my reading to do a little research on Jewish religion or history (see the \"red heifer\"). Another minor gripe I had with the story is that it seemed to expand exponentially in ridiculousness as the story wore on. I'm conflicted on this, as I absolutely adored the weirdness of it all, but I also thought it seemed to be getting slightly out of control during the last 50 pages. I'd heard from various sources that Chabon is a divisive author. While The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay seems to rock everyone's literary world, I'd heard his other books tended to turn people off, or at least thin the thick crowd of fans from Chabon's Pulitzer-winning novel. I'm very happy I read The Yiddish Policeman's Union , and I'll be sure to try more Chabon in the future. The novel is complex, beautifully written, compelling, quirky, and more often than not, a hilarious read. My gripes above are relatively minor, and while not all The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay fans may enjoy the novel, it is certainly worth a shake. ...more When I first heard about this novel, I found its premise too fascinating to resist: it's a noir-inspired murder mystery set in an alternate universe in which refugees from the failed state of Israel are living in a section of Alaska temporarily loaned to them by the US government. At the beginning of Chabon's novel, their lease on this land is about to expire, signs of the messiah's imminent arrival are accumulating, and a dead man has inconveniently turned up in the fleabag hotel of broken down When I first heard about this novel, I found its premise too fascinating to resist: it's a noir-inspired murder mystery set in an alternate universe in which refugees from the failed state of Israel are living in a section of Alaska temporarily loaned to them by the US government. At the beginning of Chabon's novel, their lease on this land is about to expire, signs of the messiah's imminent arrival are accumulating, and a dead man has inconveniently turned up in the fleabag hotel of broken down detective Meyer Landsman. The narrative revolves around Landsman's quest to solve this murder despite growing evidence that there are quite a few people who would strongly prefer he mind his own business. The story is a complex one, the basic murder mystery woven through with issues of religion and race, politics and love, loss and redemption. Despite the intriguing premise, it took me quite some time to get into this novel. Though I felt a certain amount of detached pity for Landsman, I simply didn't find him involving enough as a character to really care that much about him. It wasn't until the identity of the dead man was revealed that I really felt myself begin to get invested in just where this story was going. Unfortunately, that didn't occur until 100-plus pages in. Chabon's writing may have contributed to my difficulty engaging with this story. Though he is clearly a highly creative prose stylist, there were times when he shifted between past and present in a way I found very confusing. In addition, he would go on such long expositional passages between brief lines of dialogue that I would forgot what the main thread of the conversation was about and have to go back and re-read. Perhaps this is all very literary, but quirks like these repeatedly took me out of the story. Despite those problems, I did enjoy this novel in a detached sort of way. I found the themes it explored and the way it explored them intellectually interesting. But it just didn't grab me emotionally as much as I expected it to from the premise. I think my taste and Chabon's style are perhaps not the best match. ...more Imagine a crazy world in which, following the Holocaust, Jewish survivors languished in DP camps in Europe, were often still barred or discouraged from immigrating to the various \"democracies\", and found themselves pushed into emigrating to the Middle East where, through a variety of historical coincidences, they founded a new society based on dispossessing the indigenous Arabs and acting as imperialism's pit bulls in the region. That's the crazy world we do live in. In many ways, Michael Chabon's Imagine a crazy world in which, following the Holocaust, Jewish survivors languished in DP camps in Europe, were often still barred or discouraged from immigrating to the various \"democracies\", and found themselves pushed into emigrating to the Middle East where, through a variety of historical coincidences, they founded a new society based on dispossessing the indigenous Arabs and acting as imperialism's pit bulls in the region. That's the crazy world we do live in. In many ways, Michael Chabon's humourous Jewish hard boiled detective alternate history seems much more realistic than what actually happened in our world. In The Yiddish Policemen's Union there is no Israel; instead we are introduced to the Jewish ghetto in Alaska, where Jewish refugees from the Holocaust have been allowed to live for sixty years, a transplanted bit of an Ashkenazi old Europe which in our world simply did not survive the twentieth century. But the lease is up, and in a matter of months the Jews of Sitka will be expelled, to where we (and they) do not know. Against this backdrop our alcoholic, suicidal, failure of a protagonist, Meyer Landsman, starts by following the trail of a dead junkie, found shot execution style in the very building he uses as an excuse for home. The Yiddish Policemen's Union works on three levels. First, the writing is great if you can stand it - reading other reviews, i note about one in four cannot - highly descriptive in a way which makes you laugh and makes you wince, sprinkled with Yiddishisms and saturated in the oddest of metaphors and similes (i.e. a carpet the color of a throat lozenge, a nipple like a pink lentil). Plus, it's all written in such an over-the-top Chandleresque style that really it feels, and for me worked, as a parody. Which is how that kind of noir writing works best for me, so i was happy. Second, i liked the plot. It works on a personal level, on the level of the who-dunnit, and on a make-believe geopolitical level which meshes in with the whole alternate reality SF thing of introducing us to a world that does not really exist. Last but not least, and also growing out of the alternate history/SF thing, it's a novel of ideas, specifically of the idea of what homeland means, what it provides and what it does not provide. Chabon focusses what many facile anti-zionists ignore, the question of what would it have meant to the post-Holocaust Jewish remnant if the zionist invasion of Palestine had not succeeded. It's not an easy question to ponder, and asking it could serve as an excuse for a lot of cheapshot bad politics, which to his credit Chabon doesn't engage in. [SPOILER AHEAD] This is really subtle background noise right up until the last part of the book, where it suddenly becomes front and center as a our pathetic protagonist learns that the murder he has been investigating is in fact tied in with his own sister's death, and the people behind both are in fact an alliance of Jewish gangsters and fundamentalists working hand in glove with Christian fundamentalists in the usa to engineer a zionist invasion of Palestine sixty years after it happened in our world. In it's own way, Chabon's \"alternate history\" is folding itself back into our own all-too familiar one. i think any honest reading of this book has to see it as soft anti-zionist, from a Jewish perspective. By which i mean, zionism is obviously not Chabon's cup of tea, and his protagonist rejects it as being incompatible with his own life and identity, all the while remaining sympathetic to the dynamics which can make it seem appealing. It seems the Coen brothers are to make a movie out of this book. Simply because of the writing style, they'll have to take some liberties with the book, and i'm curious if they'll take the opportunity to erase or cover up this critical slant on zionism, with its obvious implications in the real, and really crazy, world we do live in today. At the same time, Chabon's use of Alaska as a location for his alternate-world Jewish Pale is a useful reminder that the question of settlerism is neither specific to Jews nor to the Middle East. The relationship between the Tlingit and the Jews of Alaska is read by many reviewers as a watered down metaphor for Israeli-Palestinian relations, but i find it works far better on its own, as a reminder that settler Alaska is also a colonial society, all about taking land away from the original inhabitants. You know, you don't need to go to the Middle East to be a settler. ...more 1. Chess 2. Police investigations 3. Judaism (Yiddish, red cows, those little hats) 4. Alaska I don\u2019t know much about any of these topics. And honestly, only the last one piques my interest. Which meant from page one, it was going to be an uphill battle for Chabon. And he lost the battle. I mean he was slaughtered on that hill. Now that I have finished the book, I have negative interest in items 1 to 3. I am still curious about Alaska. Yet once it was used in the set-up, the cold tundra was tossed a 1.\tChess 2.\tPolice investigations 3.\tJudaism (Yiddish, red cows, those little hats) 4.\tAlaska I don\u2019t know much about any of these topics. And honestly, only the last one piques my interest. Which meant from page one, it was going to be an uphill battle for Chabon. And he lost the battle. I mean he was slaughtered on that hill. Now that I have finished the book, I have negative interest in items 1 to 3. I am still curious about Alaska. Yet once it was used in the set-up, the cold tundra was tossed aside and rarely impacted the story. To his credit, Chabon put up a good fight. His descriptions were razor sharp. (And I picture his eyes shut as he slashes away with those blades.) Not to mention the character quirks he threw in with such abandon, like grenades meant to blast away my resistance. Enough with my bad metaphors. I can understand how he won a Pulitzer Prize for his other book . Chabon is a good writer. He has a way with words, understands people, and set up a truly brooding mood. It may just be that the subject matter was predestined to fail with me. (If you are wondering why I read this book in the first place, there weren\u2019t many options at the library that day.) But isn\u2019t it an author\u2019s job to make the topic interesting? I thought I\u2019d be able to grasp onto something, anything. Plus I had a hard time keeping all the names and events straight. You can blame this on a combination of listening to the audiobook while driving and, once again, the fact that I just didn\u2019t care. ...more This is a book that I didn't want to read. Once I actually acquired a copy it sat mouldering on my shelves for over a year before I got to it. Having only read Kavalier & Clay and having been only mildly whelmed by it, it didn't call to me at all. Then, madness of madnesses, it was not only nominated for, but won the Hugo Award, even when stacked up against such brilliant scifi writers as Ian McDonald and Charles Stross. Upset doesn't begin to describe my reaction. How dare this dabbler in g This is a book that I didn't want to read. Once I actually acquired a copy it sat mouldering on my shelves for over a year before I got to it. Having only read Kavalier & Clay and having been only mildly whelmed by it, it didn't call to me at all. Then, madness of madnesses, it was not only nominated for, but won the Hugo Award, even when stacked up against such brilliant scifi writers as Ian McDonald and Charles Stross. Upset doesn't begin to describe my reaction. How dare this dabbler in genre fiction, already with a Pulitzer under his belt, swoop in and steal this award (and accolades) from more-deserving authors struggling to break through that glass ceiling that genre writers toil beneath? It wasn't even true SciFi! The only fantastic element is that it's an alternate history type of story! To say that I was predisposed to hate this book is an understatement. I wanted to loathe this book, write a scathing review, inspire mass riots and book bannings. This affront to Science Fiction could not stand! Imagine my surprise, then, when within the first 50 pages I was so deeply sucked in that I almost missed my connecting flight. The next 100 flew by so quickly that I didn't notice when the plane had even landed until everyone around me began standing up. The book was just that engrossing. Still, it's not Science Fiction. Imagine, if you will, a world where Israel has yet to be established. Sure, there was a push for it after WWII, but the Arab nations made good on Amadinejad's oft-stated threat to \"push the Jews back into the sea.\" So once again landless and reviled (apparently there were no Truth and Reconciliation committees) the scattered Jews turned to the Americans who offered them a 60 year lease on several ice-blasted scraps of islands up in Alaska. You can't help but think that it's a return to Shtetl living at its finest. Once settled in Sitka the Jews go about solidifying their holdings, building up a major metropolis, dealing with the displaced Tlingit tribes (you'd think a group of people who had been chased from one corner of the world to the other would have more compassion for oppressed peoples), and quashing the militant zionists in their midst. All goes well for nearly six decades, until the time for Reversion comes. Then everything hits the fan. Meyer Landsman is a washed-up disgrace of a policeman pulling a Leaving Las Vegas in a fleabag hotel until one of the other boarders is found in his room with a bullet in the back of his skull. For whatever reason, Landsman takes personal offense at this and begins investigating, against the direct orders of his new boss, his ex-wife with whom he shares a guilt-ridden past. Along the way he ventures deep into the heart of the very insular and very Orthodox crimes families that may or may not be planning for Civil War, into the frozen wastes of Alaska, and deep beneath the city itself. To say that I was captivated is an understatement. This book grabbed me and would not let me go. This was no crisply polished apple of a story. It is dirty, it stinks of spoiled plum brandy and poor quality tobacco and it's falling apart from years of abuse. In other words, it hits my literary G Spot just right. Chabon mixes just the right blend of tradition, corruption, history and the eccentricities of a people who, reviled for no good reason throughout the world, have turned so insular and secretive that they no longer know themselves. I would be kicking myself for waiting so long to read this book, were it not for the fact that I finally got to enjoy it now and am still basking in the heady afterglow. But, still, it's not Science Fiction. Hugo selection committee, take note. ...more Then again. Again. Again. I wake up this morning and see that even now, despite everything, not one vote for this review. Fuck. Fuck. Fuck. Fuck. What the fucking hell do I have to do to get a vote for this review. Just one fucking vote, so I can put the fucking thing to bed. Obviously I need a new plan....a cunning plan. Hmmm.... --------------------------------------------------------------- Then again, again. I'm still trying to say just how good this book is. So, I bet somebody the other day. H Then again. Again. Again. I wake up this morning and see that even now, despite everything, not one vote for this review. Fuck. Fuck. Fuck. Fuck. What the fucking hell do I have to do to get a vote for this review. Just one fucking vote, so I can put the fucking thing to bed. Obviously I need a new plan....a cunning plan. Hmmm.... --------------------------------------------------------------- Then again, again. I'm still trying to say just how good this book is. So, I bet somebody the other day. He reads the book and dares say he didn't like it and I buy him dinner at my favourite expensive Melbourne restaurant. Expensive hardly states the case. Go here: http://www.kayak.com/r/KTKQJi and you can check out the airfare from Wallis and Futuna to Melbourne. They seem to start at two and a half grand US. Fuck. So, I hastily lend the book to another friend, take your time, Janina, no rush. Lose it on the flight to Canberra, no problem. But meanwhile, I'm pondering on the unavoidable fact that when you talk in a review about what a horrible time you are having and how you are crying as you write, nobody votes for your review. They send you the sweetest messages about how they hope you've stopped crying, but no votes. So, I just wish to point out that I am NOT crying as I write this. I SHAN'T be crying as you read it. Honestly. In fact I can only think of one thing in the whole world more likely to keep me from crying than getting votes for this review. See? Smiling. ----------------------------------------------------------- Then again. It occurred to me this morning as I sat curled up at the bottom of the bath and the shower kept me company, both of us weeping copious tears, most of my brain wondering about the the sorts of things I dare say everybody does who is in hell and doesn't understand why; it occurred to me that one little bit of my brain, not engaged in these rather futile activities, still wanted to do this book justice and had I? Maybe in a way. Still, let me add a few points. This is as fine a hard-boiled detective novel as I've ever read and I've read hundreds. It is a book that should make all those Ursula le Guin types creating worlds and language to match hang their heads in shame. The world Chabon invents, the one where instead of taking Israel the wandering Jews are leased part of Alaska, this world is more than believable, it just is. Not for one moment would you think as you read this book that his world does not exist. Nor the language. Nor the ramifications of the one and the other. Not only that, but he makes a dull, mean, nasty world utterly enticing to the reader. Every word he puts on the page is there for a purpose and yet is a thing of joy for the reader. This is surely a writer who loves to write. (I guess you can read my review of The Dispossessed for more pontificating on this matter.) This book is witty and intelligent without being difficult. In fact, this is the book that makes me wonder. I finished the Girl, Dragon book a few days ago and thought perhaps there is something in writing badly. That writing badly is actually writing well. But I read this book and I simply can't understand why it will attract a tiny audience compared with Larsson's. It's got chess in it, and I'd have to say now that it is my favourite chess novel, but don't let that put you off. Yes, it will be funnier if you know a modicum of chess. But not knowing your horse from your knight will still leave you with a brilliant read. -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Written earlier: An endorsement, not a review. Imagine you are in hell and you happen to have this book to hand. Imagine as you suffer all the torments of being in that place, that this book actually makes you laugh out loud a bunch of times. And there is a lovely sex scene. Should you happen to be trapped in this horrible place, you couldn't really ask for more, could you? -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Written earlier still: I just have to record some great bits of this book as I go along. p. 13 And just last week, amid the panic and feathers of a kosher slaughterhouse on Zhitlovsky Avenue, a chicken turned on the shochet as he raised his ritual knife and announced, in Aramaic, the imminent advent of Messiah. According to the Tog , the miraculous chicken offered a number of startling predictions, though it neglected to mention the soup in which, having once more fallen silent as God Himself, it afterward featured. Even the most casual study of the record, Landsman thinks, would show that strange times to be a Jew have almost always been, as well, strange times to be a chicken. p. 95 '\"Man makes plans,\"' the kid reads. '\"And God laughs.\"' p. 153 Landsman watches the progress of Elijah the Prophet trhough the snowstorm and plans his own death. This is a fourth strategy he has evolved to cheer himself when he's going down the drain. But of course he has to be careful not to overdo it. p. 156 'Penguin Simkowtiz? Where?' She looks around, turning from the waist, and Landsman seizes the opportunity to peer into her shrit. He can see the freckled top of her left breast, the lace edge of her bra cup, the dark indication of her nipple against the cup. The desire floods him to run his hand inside her shirt, to hold her breast, to climb into the soft hollow there and curl up and fall asleep. When she turns back, she catches him in his dream of cleavage. Landsman feels a burn in his cheeks. 'Huh,' she says. p.158 'Nu,' she says. 'Okay, then,' says Landsman. If he lets he go, he will never lie in the hollow of her breast, asleep. He will never go to sleep again without the help of a handful of Nembutal or the good offices of his chopped M-39. p. 163 'Jesus fucking Christ,' she says with that flawless hardpan accent of hers. It is an expression that always strikes Landsman as curious, or at least as something that he would pay money to see. p.278 'Are you taking medication?' 'No, not really.' 'Not really?' 'No, I don't want to.' 'You don't want to.' 'I'm, you know. Afraid I might lose my edge.' 'That explains the drinking, then,' the doctor says. His words seem tinged with a sardonic wiff of liquorice. 'I hear it does wonders for one's edge.' He goes to the door, opens it, and an Indian noz comes in to take Landsman away. 'In my experience, Detective Landsman, if I may,' the doctor concludes his own jag, 'the people who worry about losing their edge, often they fail to see they already lost the blade a long time ago.' ...more Had a pretty lengthy review, which was deleted when I made the mistake of changing the shelf. Yeah, I don't get it either. Long story short: I still don't get why Michael Chabon is supposed to be one of the great writers of the 21st century. \"Wonder Boys\" was an enjoyable read. Nothing life-changing, but smart, fast, and chock full of quirky characters. \"Kavalier & Clay\"....not so good. I am a fan of the comics industry, and I have to say the beginning describing it's birth had me riveted. A Had a pretty lengthy review, which was deleted when I made the mistake of changing the shelf. Yeah, I don't get it either. Long story short: I still don't get why Michael Chabon is supposed to be one of the great writers of the 21st century. \"Wonder Boys\" was an enjoyable read. Nothing life-changing, but smart, fast, and chock full of quirky characters. \"Kavalier & Clay\"....not so good. I am a fan of the comics industry, and I have to say the beginning describing it's birth had me riveted. And then the characters' hardships begin. And then they continue. And keep going. The depressing acts were so unrelenting that it started to border on the melodramatic, one long dirge on the suffering and pain humanity inflicts on itself. Now \"The Yiddish Policemen's Union\". I have to admit that I only made it through about 3/4 of this book. See, Chabon seems to have done the same thing all over again: taken an interesting, original concept and then populated it with contrived, formulaic plot lines and tired characters. Example: A mystery set in an alternate reality where the Jewish population has been relocated to Alaska after the atrocities of WWII. Sounds good, right? Well, it would be if he didn't just drag out the tired old noir cliches: the alcoholic, loner detective on a destructive downward spiral who won't give up the case; his family-man, responsible partner, there to pull him from the messes he makes; his estranged ex-wife who he still loves. Give me a break. I couldn't get enough of an investment in these characters to actually care where the plot was going. There are some interesting scenes and it's obvious Chabon is well-educated in the areas of Jewish ritual and history. But even with a couple of unforseen twists, it wasn't enough to keep me reading. Also, as a sidenote: I have to say the book jacket for this edition is one of the most obnoxious I've ever seen. Could his name get any bigger? The entire spine of the book is taken up with \"PULITZER PRIZE WINNING AUTHOR\" which completely overshadows the actual TITLE of the book. I know Chabon had nothing to do with this design, but it's pretty bad. ...more (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.) Is Michael Chabon possibly our nation's greatest living writer? Oh, wait, I already know the answer to that rhetorical question -- yes, yes he is . And that's because, more than almost anyone else working today, Chabon has the ability to elegantly enfold the elements of literature most revered by acad (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.) Is Michael Chabon possibly our nation's greatest living writer? Oh, wait, I already know the answer to that rhetorical question -- yes, yes he is . And that's because, more than almost anyone else working today, Chabon has the ability to elegantly enfold the elements of literature most revered by academes with the elements most sought by the beach-and-airport crowd -- or in other words, he is able to find a magically perfect balance in his books between an exciting plot, deep character development, and a sophisticated personal style, and by \"magically perfect\" I mean that it's almost impossible to determine how exactly he pulls it off, even when you're sitting there actually reading the book in question. And so it is that Chabon is one of the few authors in America right now to have novels that regularly receive prestigious award nominations (and in fact even a Pulitzer win once, for 2000's The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay ) even while being hugely popular bestsellers at the same time. Take for example 2006's The Yiddish Policemen's Union , which I recently got a chance to read through the new \"Netflix for books\" service BookSwim.com (from whom I recently received a complimentary two-month membership, in exchange for writing about my experience here after it's over; that write-up will be coming in early December), a book so insanely popular that I've been searching for vain for a spare copy within the Chicago Public Library system for two entire years now. And that's ironic, because the book is in actuality a science-fictiony \"alternate history\" tale, and in fact is one of the few books in history to win both the Hugo and Nebula awards in the same year, the two most prestigious awards in SF and with highly competitive committees that are loathe to give it to the same book -- turns out that in Chabon's fictional universe, World War Two wasn't actually won until 1946, a much harder fight than what happened in real life (in his version, for example, Germany actually beats the Soviet Union), and that only ended after the US dropping a series of atomic bombs on Berlin. As a result, then, the very real Jewish experiment in establishing a unified Israeli nation in those same years was in his universe a dismal failure, due to the US's backing military support being so diverted by the war; prompted by liberals in Congress, then, as a conciliatory gesture the US establishes a new federal district in a large stretch of southern Alaska just for Jewish refugees (something actually contemplated in real life, which was the main inspiration behind this entire book), which over the decades swells into a major metropolitan area of over three million, comprising Jews from all over the world and of every persuasion, from mystics to militants and everything in between. Whew, yeah, I know! And in fact, apart from the actual storyline itself, a major reason for this book existing is simply for Chabon to create a convincingly complex history for this \"Sitka\" that never was, using the incidental passages of this 400-page novel to leak out a massively complicated timeline: from the first generation of Mid-Century Modernist \"Polar Bear\" settlers, promised a fertile farmland paradise by Interior Secretary Harold Ickes as an enticement to move there in the first place, just to discover upon arriving a half-frozen wasteland and hostile Indian natives; to the World's Fair the district hosts in 1977, considered by most to be Sitka's cultural height; to the establishment of the \"Jewish mafia,\" a particularly hardass clan of rural Russians known as the Verbovers (or slangily as simply \"the black hats\"), almost extinguished as an ethnic group during the war and with them never forgetting this fact; al the way up to the early 2000s of our story, with Chabon presenting us a crumbling, past-its-prime Sitka, just waiting out its last few months before officially reverting back to Alaskan territory (and with all three million residents getting kicked out at that point, and with no one quite sure where they're all going to go), with more and more of these soon-to-be exiles turning these days into trigger-happy Zionists, convinced that the Great Reversion of 2008 is a sign from God that it's time for them to march right back into the Holy Land and try taking over Jerusalem again, whether the Muslims currently there f-cking like it or not. And let's face it, that just this alone would've made for a fine book, although one probably with only a limited appeal among mere genre enthusiasts, but this is where Chabon is truly brilliant -- because in reality, everything I've just described serves as background dressing only to the murder mystery making up the actual main plotline of The Yiddish Policemen's Union . And not just any murder mystery either, but a noir murder mystery, full of wisecracking alcoholic detectives and tough-as-nails dames, dangerously close-lipped gangsters and all the rest; in fact, Chabon has gone on record in the past about this, confessing that he meant this novel to partly be an homage to such pulp-fiction writers as Raymond Chandler and the like. And the reason this is brilliant is because an environment like this surprisingly turns out to be perfect for telling a noirish pulp-fiction story; because believe me, you've never heard sparkling rat-a-tat dialogue until you've heard it from the mouths of a couple of bitter, Yiddish-speaking Jews. It's the element that really earns Chabon his chops, and what elevates him way past the usual genre author; because while most writers would be exhausted merely from the effort of putting together this fantastically original and complex history of a frozen Holy Land tucked away in the Arctic Circle, Chabon himself essentially starts over from scratch at this point and instead asks, \"Okay, now what can I actually do with this environment I've created?\" And this isn't even the end of the inventiveness; because on top of everything else, the book turns out to have a political message too, with George Bush in Chabon's made-up universe still managing to be President in the early 2000s, despite the fantastically fictional half-century of alternative history that precedes him. Although I won't reveal any of the actual plot developments regarding the last half of the novel, let's just say that it's important to the story that Bush is President, and that by its end The Yiddish Policemen's Union turns out to be yet another early-2000s scathing indictment of the neo-fascist, superstition-obsessed times we all lived through back then; and in fact, the ending of this book is not going to be very well received either by hardline Israelis and other militant Zionists, a surprising element in a novel where nearly every single character is Jewish. Any of these elements on their own are just fine, and alone would make for a perfectly serviceable if not eventually forgettable book; combine them all into one tale, though, and you suddenly have an explosive game-changer that will literally blow your head right off your freaking neck. This is the power of Michael Chabon , and why more and more people each year are going absolutely nuts for his work; and I admit, now that I've read three of his novels myself (the other two being the aforementioned Kavalier & Clay and his early hit Wonder Boys , adapted in 2000 by Curtis Hanson into an equally great movie starring Michael Douglas and Tobey Maguire), I too am rapidly becoming one of these Chabon fanatics, and am even thinking now of reading his new book of essays regarding the struggle among perpetual-childhood Gen-X males to grow up ( Manhood for Amateurs ), even though the very subject usually makes me want to claw out my own f-cking eyes . As you can tell, The Yiddish Policemen's Union comes with a giant recommendation today, and now stands in my eyes as easily one of the top ten post-9/11 novels so far in history. ...more The corpse with the extra hole in his head may turn out to be the least of Detective Meyer Landsman's problems. His ex-wife is now his boss (professionally, this time around) and she's just handed him a tall stack of file folders full of cold cases she wants him to solve. A dark Alaska winter is creeping in and Landsman is sinking deeper into a shady mess that reeks of conspiracy and long kept secrets. There's no denying it...Chabon plays well with words; crafting sentences of such loveliness, yo The corpse with the extra hole in his head may turn out to be the least of Detective Meyer Landsman's problems. His ex-wife is now his boss (professionally, this time around) and she's just handed him a tall stack of file folders full of cold cases she wants him to solve. A dark Alaska winter is creeping in and Landsman is sinking deeper into a shady mess that reeks of conspiracy and long kept secrets. There's no denying it...Chabon plays well with words; crafting sentences of such loveliness, you go back and read them again and again, committing them to memory, and savoring them later. \"He feels like he suffers from tinnitus of the soul.\" See what I mean? That's yummy! Or take for instance this tender scene where an injured Landsman accidentally winds up sharing a bed with his partner's two young sons: \"...the Shemets boys set up a whistling and rumbling and blatting of inner valves that would shame the grand pipe organ of Temple Emanu-El. The boys execute a series of maneuvers, a kung fu of slumber, that drives Landsman to the very limit of the bed. They chop at Landsman, stab him with their toes, grunt and mutter. They masticate the fiber of their dreams. Around dawn, something very bad happens in the baby's diaper. It's the worst night that Landsman has ever spent on a mattress, and that is saying a good deal.\" Say it with me now...\"They masticate the fiber of their dreams.\" I'm pretty sure I'd sell my soul to be able to write like this guy. ...more I wanted to be a good reader, I wanted to give it a good chance and not pick nits because it wasn't written by an Alaskan. But I just. couldn't. trudge. through the prose. So, yet again, I feel out of step with everyone I know, who all loved the book and demanded I read it. Sigh. THE YIDDISH POLICEMEN\u2019S UNION BY MICHAEL CHABON: Michael Chabon is a writer that many other writers are envious of: he\u2019s young, he\u2019s brilliant, and his books will undoubtedly survive long after his is gone. Pulitzer Prize for The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay aside, Chabon\u2019s writing seems almost effortless, but is pure craft and magic. Unlike John Irving, who plots out the complete story beforehand, and then meticulously crafts each sentence and paragraph to be perfect (which is why he THE YIDDISH POLICEMEN\u2019S UNION BY MICHAEL CHABON: Michael Chabon is a writer that many other writers are envious of: he\u2019s young, he\u2019s brilliant, and his books will undoubtedly survive long after his is gone. Pulitzer Prize for The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay aside, Chabon\u2019s writing seems almost effortless, but is pure craft and magic. Unlike John Irving, who plots out the complete story beforehand, and then meticulously crafts each sentence and paragraph to be perfect (which is why he can take up to five years to finish a book), Chabon has both the story and ability from the start in creating his piece of art. The Yiddish Policemen\u2019s Union, like his other books, takes you to a place you never could\u2019ve imagined. In this alternate reality, during the time of the Second World War, two million Jews are transported from Germany to Alaska, where they invented their own small civilization meshed in the bitterness of their treatment in Germany and their treatment in Alaska, a cold and distant place from the contiguous United States. The main city is known as Sitka, but there is little independence, and any whisperings of nationalization are immediately quashed. Yiddish is the primary language, with very little American spoken. Little happens in this people\u2019s history from World War II to the present, other than a pathetic World\u2019s Fair that now only retains the constant reminder of the reaching stone structure known as the Safety Pin. Sitka is not a happy place for anyone, as they dream of Zion and their return to their true home. Landsman is our main character, a policeman who\u2019s been in the service for many years but has little to show for it, apart from a trashed hotel room, a failed marriage, a dead sister, and his own depression over the state of his life. And it is then that he finds out about the dead body in the room nearby. A man has been murdered and the case begins. With his partner, Landsman travels around the area, picking up clues, and trying to piece the every-growingly complex case together. At the same time, his ex-wife returns to the precinct now as his boss, with the news that big changes are happening and all outstanding cases must be dealt with post haste. But as Landsmen digs deeper, he finds a larger plot taking place, involving more bodies, and more importantly the death of his sister. The pressure increases from important people in high places, as Landsman with the help of his partner and ex-wife, who he is growing close to again, gets closer and closer to the truth. While my hope is that Chabon will return to this incredibly developed world in future stories, The Yiddish Policemen\u2019s Union is nevertheless a thrilling mystery; a Sherlock Holmes case with a Jewish twist, that keeps the reader hanging on until the end when the case is solved, and everyone seems happy. However, the state of Sitka and these many homeless Jews remains in jeopardy, to be resolved perhaps at a later date. For more book reviews, and author interviews, go to BookBanter . ...more What if Israel had not come into existence in 1948 and another solution had been found, namely the USA ceding a portion of coastal Alaska for a temporary Jewish state? Now add to that a noir crime yarn set in this fictional state. What\u2019s not to like? Oy! This is a very slow-moving detective yarn, so slow in fact that I contemplated not finishing it. Chabon concentrates on giving family and cultural historical details in this alternate reality yarn. That becomes too much, particularly as the forwa What if Israel had not come into existence in 1948 and another solution had been found, namely the USA ceding a portion of coastal Alaska for a temporary Jewish state? Now add to that a noir crime yarn set in this fictional state. What\u2019s not to like? Oy! This is a very slow-moving detective yarn, so slow in fact that I contemplated not finishing it. Chabon concentrates on giving family and cultural historical details in this alternate reality yarn. That becomes too much, particularly as the forward movement of the story suffers while he is establishing all the facts he wants the reader to have. He takes extreme joy in the noir patois, and that is one of the things that is fun and worthwhile about the book. In a strange way I was reminded of Thomas Hardy, in that I love Hardy\u2019s use of language more than his plotting, and that is the case here as well. That is not to say that this book is on the level with Hardy\u2019y works. It is not. But the fun-with-language aspect keeps it afloat long enough for the plot to kick in. There is also a wealth of yiddishisms that can be far too much for those who do not have a general familiarity. Bottom line is that I enjoyed the book in spite of itself, but would not recommend it to just anyone. It takes a certain sort of view to make this trip an enjoyable one. ...more Many people seem to enjoy Michael Chabon\u2019s books so I was pleased when I finally had a reason to read The Yiddish Policemen\u2019s Union. In the dark Alaskan winter in the city of Sitka; Detective Meyer Landsman\u2019s ex-wife has just become his boss and has handing him a huge stack of old cold cases that she wants him to solve. While Landsman life may feel like its already hit rock bottom, he\u2019s only just discovering the mess that he\u2019s in; a mess that will lead to a conspiracy. This alternative verson of Many people seem to enjoy Michael Chabon\u2019s books so I was pleased when I finally had a reason to read The Yiddish Policemen\u2019s Union. In the dark Alaskan winter in the city of Sitka; Detective Meyer Landsman\u2019s ex-wife has just become his boss and has handing him a huge stack of old cold cases that she wants him to solve. While Landsman life may feel like its already hit rock bottom, he\u2019s only just discovering the mess that he\u2019s in; a mess that will lead to a conspiracy. This alternative verson of Sitka, Alaska in this book is a Yiddish-speaking metropolis. That was the whole basis of this book; Michael Chabon\u2019s idea came from a book he found called 'Say It in Yiddish' which had sayings that he would never have a chance to use because Yiddish isn't the primary language of any country. While toying with the idea of a hypothetical Yiddish-speaking country this book was born. The idea was Israel lost the 1948 war; the Jews established a Jewish state in Alaska. The Yiddish Policemen\u2019s Union is an interesting blend of Michael Chabon's heritage with a love of old mystery novels. Chabon has called it a homage to Raymond Chandler, Dashiell Hammett, Ross Macdonald and Isaac Babel. But while the noir stylings of this book are good this book also has a satirical nature about it, with a comic look at the Yiddish language and Jewish culture. Michael Chabon originally published an essay called Guidebook to a Land of Ghosts; which he discussed some thoughts he had of the travel book Say It in Yiddish, this essay was responded with a spiteful reaction from a Jewish community. This vitriolic response only spurred Chabon on and eventually he developed the idea of this book. While there was some parts of the book that felt like it dragged on, over all the balance between the comical and the noir seemed to work. There are some great line coming from thing book; a highlight for me was \"He feels like he suffers from tinnitus of the soul.\" I was really surprised with just how well the dark and gritty mystery mixed with Chabon\u2019s satirical style. I liked the whole concept of a Jewish noir novel; it was a refreshing take on a genre that I love. Well worth checking out this Alternate history novel; as it is one of the best I\u2019ve read. I hear that the Coen Brothers are looking at adapting this book into a movie, if anyone could do this book justice as a movie, it would definitely be them. I\u2019d be interested to see if this movie ever gets made and how it translates onto the screen. ...more Inventive, creative etc. Most of the writing style is top notch but sometimes overblown. I particularly liked the conversation with his ex-wife when she's introduced in the book as his new boss. Instead of giving the Jews a temporary homeland in Alaska, I would have preferred it more if they made part of Germany the Jewish homeland. Jews, Alaska, chess, and murder: usually these subjects don\u2019t have much in common. That's until you read Michael Chabon\u2019s new novel \u201cThe Yiddish Policeman\u2019s Union\u201d where these elements come together to create the core of this quirky noir story. Chabon\u2019s novel is based on an interesting conceit: What if Jews had not been able to settle in Israel after World War II and, instead, were granted temporary residency on the Alaskan panhandle? The original plan was set into motion around 1939 by Harold Ic Jews, Alaska, chess, and murder: usually these subjects don\u2019t have much in common. That's until you read Michael Chabon\u2019s new novel \u201cThe Yiddish Policeman\u2019s Union\u201d where these elements come together to create the core of this quirky noir story. Chabon\u2019s novel is based on an interesting conceit: What if Jews had not been able to settle in Israel after World War II and, instead, were granted temporary residency on the Alaskan panhandle? The original plan was set into motion around 1939 by Harold Ickes (Franklin Delano Roosevelt\u2019s Secretary of the Interior), in response to a plea from a Jewish community in the town of Neustadt. The settlement was proposed in the Alaska Territory as a way to work around the United States\u2019 existing immigration quotas, but fell through due to a lack of political support and backlash from Alaskans who feared the prospect of foreign settlers for reasons ranging from racism to increased competition for jobs. In the novel, Ickes was successful in bringing his plan to fruition and Jewish refugees were given the Federal District of Sitka as a temporary settlement. That was sixty years before the start of Chabon\u2019s novel when Sitka is getting ready to revert to the United States leaving the fate of the Alaskan Jews largely unknown. Amazingly, all of these events are just a backdrop for Chabon\u2019s actual story: an edgy murder mystery. When Meyer Landsman moved into a local flophouse nine months ago he wasn\u2019t looking to do much more than spend some quality time with his bottle of slivovitz and \u201cthe shot glass that he is currently dating\u201d until Sitka finally reverts. Landsman\u2019s plans change abruptly when the body of a local chess prodigy turns up in the hotel. For reasons that elude even him, Landsman feels obligated to investigate the murder despite pressure from his new boss/ex-wife and other higher ups to drop the case. As the investigation continues, Landsman and Berko Shemets, his half-Tlingit partner, find themselves sucked into the underworld of the black hat community of the Verbover Jews and their nefarious undertakings. Chabon also throws in several conspiracies, a cover-up scheme, a pseudo-terrorist plot, and lots of Yiddish phrases just to keep things interesting. This last touch is because the novel has the unique characteristic of being a novel written in English about characters who do not speak English: they all speak Yiddish instead. So \u201cThe Yiddish Policeman\u2019s Union\u201d does require a bit of energy to read. At first, nothing is going to make sense. But Chabon eventually pulls it all together. The Yiddish phrases slowly start to become comprehensible, as do the various subplots Chabon incorporates into this very unique story. Chabon\u2019s prose has a strange charm, which might be expected from an author who won the Pulitzer Prize for \u201cThe Adventures of Kavalier and Clay,\u201d a novel whose plot largely centers around a comic book hero. The narration is hard-edged, often gritty, but always with a smile threatening to form. (Jews from south of Sitka are referred to as \u201cMexicans.\u201d) From the first line, this story will grab a reader\u2019s attention. Written in the present tense, it has an immediacy fitting for a book that tries to recreate the style of Raymond Chandler \u2019s hard-boiled detective stories in a Jewish community. Chabon starts off strong with a vision that he vividly crafts on the page. This vision begins to falter in the second half of the novel as Chabon becomes wrapped up in the complicated conventions common to noir stories. The explanations for several conspiracies come off as convoluted, if not entirely out of nowhere. The novel\u2019s ending, too, is not as strong as its opening. Shortcomings aside, Chabon has done a great service to the genre of speculative (or \u201cwhat if?\u201d) fiction by showing that it is possible to write a serious S. F. novel. ...more On one level, this book is a standard detective story, with nods to noir film and at least one name-check for Raymond Chandler . The protagonist is a hard-drinking policeman who cracks wise and has trouble with dames (well, at least one dame), and takes an enormous amount of physical abuse in the course of performing his duties... duties which he often defines more broadly than his supervisors really expect. Sound familiar? On another level, it's a science fiction novel, taking for its setting a On one level, this book is a standard detective story, with nods to noir film and at least one name-check for Raymond Chandler . The protagonist is a hard-drinking policeman who cracks wise and has trouble with dames (well, at least one dame), and takes an enormous amount of physical abuse in the course of performing his duties... duties which he often defines more broadly than his supervisors really expect. Sound familiar? On another level, it's a science fiction novel, taking for its setting a parallel world that treads the already over-trampled ground of World War II (or thereabouts) as a pivot point. Again, a pretty familar trope. Add a third ingredient, though - a deep and warmly sympathetic perspective on Jewish culture from the inside out - and a fourth, the accomplished talent of Michael Chabon - and the intersection of these cliches turns into much more than the sum of its parts. I was tremendously impressed with this book. The detective mystery provides a suspenseful (and cinematic) skeleton for the story - down-at-the-heels shammes (cognate to \"shamus,\" of course) Meyer Landsman is obsessed by the murder of a junkie chess player who lives in his rundown residence hotel, and even though he's ordered to close the case he can't stop trying to solve it. This alone would make a pretty good movie (and, it would appear, the Coen brothers think so too). The niftiest thing about The Yiddish Policemen's Union for me, though, is its background, the world in which it's set: a plausible but entirely bizarre alternate universe originating from one tiny, obscure but significant change, in the best tradition of such parallel worlds. In our universe, Anthony Dimond was Alaskan territorial delegate to the U.S. House of Representatives from 1933 to 1945. In 1940, midway through that career, Dimond was instrumental in defeating a plan that President Franklin D. Roosevelt was really considering: to make part of Alaska an international Jewish homeland. In Chabon's alternity, Dimond was killed in a car accident before he could dissuade Roosevelt, and the District of Sitka was formally established in 1941. The changes this evokes are both far-reaching and entirely plausible. The existence of an alternative refuge, even one as forbidding as Alaska, saves millions of Jews from the Nazis... but it also strengthens the Axis nations and lengthens WWII, and siphons off many of those who would otherwise have been instrumental in the founding of modern Israel, and so that effort fails in 1948. Jerusalem becomes a Muslim city in an Arab land, and Sitka is the place where Jews go to build a nation. Sixty years later, the District of Sitka is a thriving country of 3.2 million people, but it's facing a deadline: Reversion. Sitka was never intended to be a permanent nation, after all, and it's getting harder to ignore Native calls for the return of at least part of their territory (there were, after all, people in Alaska before the U.S. began handing out parts of it to refugees). Now, the \"frozen Chosen,\" as they call themselves (more nifty worldbuilding on Chabon's part), have to find somewhere else to go. The question looms darkly behind everything Meyer Landsman and his compatriots do... and the answers Sitka's residents have come up with range from Madagascar to, of course, the ever-populous nation of Denial. But not everyone is so complacent or accepting of the status quo... There is no way to do justice to this book in a short review. You'll just have to read it if you want the full flavor. Highly recommended. Sources used for this review: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthony_... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Yidd... http://io9.com/search/chabon/ ...more I read and loved The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay . It broke my heart, which can be a good thing in a book. The Yiddish Policemen's Union is a quite different book. Instead of historical fiction, it's an alternate history. In this timeline, a part of Alaska was given over to Jewish immigration just before World War II. Sixty years later, that land will revert back to the American government and the state of Alaska, leaving the residents to scatter. But the alternate history, fascinat I read and loved The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay . It broke my heart, which can be a good thing in a book. The Yiddish Policemen's Union is a quite different book. Instead of historical fiction, it's an alternate history. In this timeline, a part of Alaska was given over to Jewish immigration just before World War II. Sixty years later, that land will revert back to the American government and the state of Alaska, leaving the residents to scatter. But the alternate history, fascinating as it is, is much more of a background than a plot. This is first and foremost a mystery novel that happens to be set in a world with a different history than our own. That's obvious almost immediately, and it leads to a novel with remarkably little exposition. If Chabon had wanted to thoroughly explain his world, this book could have easily been another hundred pages longer. Instead, he focuses on the mystery, a detective novel that's far more noir than SFF. As such, we spend most of the book squarely in the head of homicide detective Meyer Landsman. Luckily, he's smart enough, personable enough, and off balance enough to be interesting. And so are the people around him. Sure, many if not all of them have a certain deficit of dimensionality. But it suits the genre, and it suits the amount of time we spend with them in the book. I do regret listening to this as an audiobook, though. There's more than a few Yiddish words thrown around, and I didn't have a clue. If I'd had the printed book in front of me, I could have paused to look up some of the words that had me mystified. I was able to figure out most, but not all, of the Yiddish words through context, though, so it wasn't a complete loss. This isn't the book that Kavalier and Clay was, but that isn't a bad thing. It's still thoroughly entertaining and beautifully written. ...more I love Chabon's prose, but I can't read it for more than an hour at a stretch because it's exhausting. His writing is very sensual; he wants you to taste and smell and visualize every scene. There are no throwaway, transitory sentences and no wasted opportunities for a vivid metaphor. Normally I don't have the patience for that kind of florid writing and admittedly it could be distracting sometimes. I was often pulled out of the story when I paused to admire the turn of a phrase. I can certainly I love Chabon's prose, but I can't read it for more than an hour at a stretch because it's exhausting. His writing is very sensual; he wants you to taste and smell and visualize every scene. There are no throwaway, transitory sentences and no wasted opportunities for a vivid metaphor. Normally I don't have the patience for that kind of florid writing and admittedly it could be distracting sometimes. I was often pulled out of the story when I paused to admire the turn of a phrase. I can certainly see where his writing would put some people off, but I enjoy it as long as I can take frequent breaks from it. I wouldn't want to be trapped on an airplane for several hours with nothing but a Chabon book to read. This novel is an alternate history with a small supernatural element. It will possibly be mysterious in spots if you don't have at least a slight familiarity with Jewish traditions. I looked up several Yiddish words, but by the end of the book I was comfortable with the slang. The first half of the book is excellent, but the second half didn't quite live up to my expectations. I loved the character development, I was satisfied with the resolution of the murder mystery and with the disposition of the main characters, but the handling of the larger plot was rather vague and unsatisfying. This was still a very good read. ...more A decent premise based on an alternate history with a subtle ode to Chandler. The Jews have fled to Alaska in the wake of the Holocaust, forming a sanctuary of sorts while day-dreaming of returning to the holy land. One murder uncovers a complex criminal network of terrorists, corruption and plans for extreme mass scale murder. Homicide detective Meyer Landsman - a classic noir protagonist portrayed through a veil of booze and literature is the cog that churns the plot. He's a broken man, beauti A decent premise based on an alternate history with a subtle ode to Chandler. The Jews have fled to Alaska in the wake of the Holocaust, forming a sanctuary of sorts while day-dreaming of returning to the holy land. One murder uncovers a complex criminal network of terrorists, corruption and plans for extreme mass scale murder. Homicide detective Meyer Landsman - a classic noir protagonist portrayed through a veil of booze and literature is the cog that churns the plot. He's a broken man, beautifully dented and soaked in self loathing yet endearing with an accidental hero vibe. From discovering a murder in a hotel to seeking vengeance for his sisters untimely death, to facing a rather terse relationship with his cop wife turned boss - author Michael Chabon captures the noir element of his protagonist to perfection. The plot resembles a typical whodunit which did leave me reeling at the end. The conclusion felt a little forced and slightly off centre, however the surprise was one I didn't see coming. I enjoyed the metamorphosis from murder mystery to much more. Chabon did a good job at instilling additional elements while maintaining the core plot. If only the deviations into the past and over descriptive narrative didn't bog down what was an interesting story. I did find the pronunciation, terminology, and names somewhat difficult at times which tended to distract me from the story. Perhaps this is why I didn\u2019t enjoy it as much as I had hoped. That said Chabon incorporated some beautifully executed lyrical prose which was a pure joy to read, though it did feel a little undervalued due to the convoluted and roundabout storytelling. I can\u2019t help but think a more concise version of events accompanied by this poetic prose would\u2019ve made \u2018The Yiddish Policemen\u2019s Union\u2019 a 5 star read. Overall I give it 2.5 stars. I can see why this book gets 5 star reviews and I will no doubt come back for a re-read. I\u2019ve got a feeling that I\u2019ll enjoy it much more the second time round. ...more What? WHAT??? I never reviewed this? Man, can this cat WRITE. I bought this copy with the distractingly beautiful cover at my local library sale, and devoured the entire book over a 36-hour period. The dialogue is laugh-out-loud, snort-your-coffee-up-through-your-nose hilarious, and the plot is so ridiculously complex and brilliant that you want to get down on your knees to thank whatever God you believe in that He produces authors like this. Chabon has an incredible ear for linguistic detail, a What? WHAT??? I never reviewed this? Man, can this cat WRITE. I bought this copy with the distractingly beautiful cover at my local library sale, and devoured the entire book over a 36-hour period. The dialogue is laugh-out-loud, snort-your-coffee-up-through-your-nose hilarious, and the plot is so ridiculously complex and brilliant that you want to get down on your knees to thank whatever God you believe in that He produces authors like this. Chabon has an incredible ear for linguistic detail, and what seems like an eidetic memory for visual detail, body language and character quirks. I firmly believe in the existence of the town of Sitka, temporary homeland of the Jews. One day, I hope to visit there. So, the plot. Mayer Landsman is a homicide detective in Sitka, Alaska. He desperately misses marriage to his ex-wife, the bright, sexy, wild-haired Bina, who just so happens to be his new commanding officer. A Jew has been murdered in Landsman's apartment building, and Landsman and his cousin/partner, half-Tlingit, half-Jewish, all-Chasidic Berko Shemets, are called in to investigate. The victim, Mendel Shpilman, turns out to be the son of the Verbover Rebbe, a monumental figure in Sitka's crime world. As Landsman soon discovers, Shpilman was a sweet, beloved young chess champion who many suspect might have been the Messiah. All this is set against the nerve-wracking possibility that the US won't renew Sitka's lease, and that the Jews will once again have to find some country that will agree to take them in. The vast majority of this book is literally and figuratively fantastic, and I recommend you read it with all my heart. About the ending...well, endings are not Chabon's best thing. I found it to be, at best, unworthy of the greatness of the rest of the book, and at worst, aggressively anti-Israel, and that's why I gave it four stars instead of five. ...more I would call this urban fantasy only by the skin of it's teeth. In fact, sci-fi / mystery might be most appropriate. Alternate reality very like this, except that it takes in a Jewish settlement, a carved out area of Alaska, that is going to \"revert\" to Alaska in the coming year. More about identity and homelands. I really enjoyed The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay , probably because I was such a fan of comic books growing up. This one, a detective novel, I couldn't become invested in the same way. Chabon is a great writer and his greatest talent might be his ability to world-build and develop characters through their backstory without making it feel like you're being bombarded with information dumps. Almost the entire first third of the book is backstory and yet I didn't find myself growing imp I really enjoyed The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay , probably because I was such a fan of comic books growing up. This one, a detective novel, I couldn't become invested in the same way. Chabon is a great writer and his greatest talent might be his ability to world-build and develop characters through their backstory without making it feel like you're being bombarded with information dumps. Almost the entire first third of the book is backstory and yet I didn't find myself growing impatient. That's a testament to Chabon's ability. As the story progressed, however, I never found myself engrossed the way I wanted to be. ...more This was an enjoyable book. My Yiddish wasn't up to snuff though, and this made it feel like a bit of a struggle. And when I did know a word, like latke, I couldn't understand how a potato pancake was wielding a truncheon. It was a fun book with a lot to offer. The next time I read it I need to remember that noz and shemmes mean cop. This was a very very funny book in a lot of places and I really enjoyed it. Oy vey, such mishigas! And Meyer, schlepping around like he was meshugina. But what a shtarker, and so komish! Oy, such a book! 4 stars. I started this book three times before I read it fully, it isnt easy to read at first, but once I orientated myself to the setting, culture and people, I was hooked and read it cover to cover through one night. Being Jewish myself and of Eastern Europena extraction, I do wonder how those not understanding Yiddish and the particular depressive self-deprecation of the protagonists could fully appreciate the brilliance of this novel. Terribly funny in some parts, terribly sad in many others, it was I started this book three times before I read it fully, it isnt easy to read at first, but once I orientated myself to the setting, culture and people, I was hooked and read it cover to cover through one night. Being Jewish myself and of Eastern Europena extraction, I do wonder how those not understanding Yiddish and the particular depressive self-deprecation of the protagonists could fully appreciate the brilliance of this novel. Terribly funny in some parts, terribly sad in many others, it was a suprise to me when it won the Hugo and Nebula, as I didn't see it as Sci-fi at all, but a parable of hope almost but not quite completely lost. ...more Michael Chabon\u2019s The Yiddish Policemen\u2019s Union came highly recommended, critically acclaimed and on the shortlist for this year\u2019s Hugo Award. And that said, I don\u2019t see what all the buzz is about. The story is an alternate history and it\u2019s got an intriguing premise. But I just had a hard time getting into or caring about the story or characters for any sustained period of time. There were flashes where the book was bordering on brilliance, but there was a lot in between that just never grabbed me Michael Chabon\u2019s The Yiddish Policemen\u2019s Union came highly recommended, critically acclaimed and on the shortlist for this year\u2019s Hugo Award. And that said, I don\u2019t see what all the buzz is about. The story is an alternate history and it\u2019s got an intriguing premise. But I just had a hard time getting into or caring about the story or characters for any sustained period of time. There were flashes where the book was bordering on brilliance, but there was a lot in between that just never grabbed me. A disappointment. Maybe I had my expectations up so far that no book could ever live up to them. ...more", "Title": "The Yiddish Policemen's Union"},
