{"Comments": "<+++>Ain't No Grave: The Life and Legacy of Brother Claude Ely</+++>I bought this book at www.aintnograve.com It was a great book, and I would highly recommend it. This book is really touching, and it's amazing the life lessons that I was challenged with in reading it. It's very inspirational, and I loved the author's style of utilizing hundreds of interviews to make one,sweet story. The author made me often feel like I was actually there at these events. Sometimes I would catch myself getting a Kleenex, and other times I found myself chuckling out loud while reading.<---F> The photos were great</---F>. The music was precious. It made me long for a simpler time. The bo This book is really touching, and it's amazing the life lessons that I was challenged with in reading it. It's very inspirational, and I loved the author's style of utilizing hundreds of interviews to make one,sweet story. The author made me often feel like I was actually there at these events. Sometimes I would catch myself getting a Kleenex, and other times I found myself chuckling out loud while reading. The photos were great. The music was precious. It made me long for a simpler time. The book also challenged me individually to begin recognizing the actions I take today with others. It also stirred a renewal in my faith to be better,<---M> to be kinder</---M>, and to be more holy. I love mountain stories. This was hillbilly history at its finest! I highly recommend it. I cherished this book and plan on buying a couple more copies for my family members to read, as well. ...more This book was amazing. It had lots of really cool music history, Appalachian stories, and 290 vintage mountain photos. The coolest feature of the book was that it came with a CD containing old Appalachian church music and an old-church style sermon being preached on it. I enjoy reading nonfiction, but it takes a whole lot to impress me. This book was wonderful! Very few books keep my attention for long spans of time, but this one certainly did just that. I found myself not wanting to stop readin This book was amazing. It had lots of really cool music history, Appalachian stories, and 290 vintage mountain photos. The coolest feature of the book was that it came with a CD containing old Appalachian church music and an old-church style sermon being preached on it. I enjoy reading nonfiction, but it takes a whole lot to impress me. This book was wonderful! Very few books keep my attention for long spans of time, but this one certainly did just that. I found myself not wanting to stop reading from cover to cover. My only disappointment with the book was that once I finished reading the book, it left me wanting to read more. GREAT BOOK !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ...more Ain't No Grave: The Life & Legacy of Brother Claude Ely is a fun-read. I enjoyed reading it a lot. When I first picked up the book to read it, I was hoping it would keep my attention and perhaps entertain my current state of boredom. Instead, I was delighted to find it not only entertained me but it also captivated me. My wife bought the book at www.aintnograve.com because she likes American roots music and its history. This book certainly fits into that category, but it also was very raw an Ain't No Grave: The Life & Legacy of Brother Claude Ely is a fun-read. I enjoyed reading it a lot. When I first picked up the book to read it, I was hoping it would keep my attention and perhaps entertain my current state of boredom. Instead, I was delighted to find it not only entertained me but it also captivated me. My wife bought the book at www.aintnograve.com because she likes American roots music and its history. This book certainly fits into that category, but it also was very raw and dealt with issues often neglected in mountain history including the deeply held faith of Southerners. I personally liked how each chapter was different, but unbenownst to me, always related to the ultimate conclusion. I'll try not to spoil it for you. But yes, it's a superb book. And I plan on reading it again! I'm glad my wife ordered it. ...more This book was an interesting biography of an important figure in Appalachian--and American--culture of the mid 20th-century. Some of the pictures of minor people mentioned or interviewed in only one paragraph seemed a trifle unnecessary, but that's a judgment call. I was disappointed in the chapter discussing Ely's influence on early rock-n-roll and country artists--the editing suddenly got much worse, with paragraphs that repeated information clumsily, misplaced commas, missing words, etc. It a This book was an interesting biography of an important figure in Appalachian--and American--culture of the mid 20th-century. Some of the pictures of minor people mentioned or interviewed in only one paragraph seemed a trifle unnecessary, but that's a judgment call. I was disappointed in the chapter discussing Ely's influence on early rock-n-roll and country artists--the editing suddenly got much worse, with paragraphs that repeated information clumsily, misplaced commas, missing words, etc. It almost felt like his agent told him \"Quick! Write about his influence on Elvis and Johnny Cash!\" and he dashed it off without having as much time to polish it. Still, the book is solid overall and I'm excited that the author is coming to give a talk at my town library later this month! ...more Interesting look at this particular legend in music and religion. Not the most concise or well-written book (as the author concedes that he's not a writer by trade), it surprised me as more of a transcribed oral history project than a traditional biography. I found myself skimming after awhile, but I'm still glad to have context and backstory for this artist I've come to appreciate. Discovered this book and Bro Claude Ely on NPR -- of course. I really want to listen to the accompanying cd. May 5 2011.<---A>Macel Ely II</---A><---C>Macel Ely II</---C><+++>Ain't No Grave: The Life and Legacy of Brother Claude Ely</+++>", "Title": "Ain't No Grave: The Life and Legacy of Brother Claude Ely"},
