{"Comments": "Devastating. Beautifully-written with much heartache for these young girls who are sold into prostitution by their families. Sometimes they are sold because of extreme poverty and all money must be spent on the Males of the family. But sometimes,<---M> as in the book</---M>, they are sold just because the Male wants a new winter coat and a girl is just money wasted in feeding her when she could be sold for cash and no expenses in the future. The saddest part of the book is the girls weren't \"working\" for money even. But Beautifully-written with much heartache for these young girls who are sold into prostitution by their families. Sometimes they are sold because of extreme poverty and all money must be spent on the Males of the family. But sometimes, as in the book, they are sold just because the Male wants a new winter coat and a girl is just money wasted in feeding her when she could be sold for cash and no expenses in the future. The saddest part of the book is the girls weren't \"working\" for money even. But were really enslaved in form of bonded labour until they could pay of their debts. They had to pay back the madame their price, the costs of bringing them, all the agents, bribes, money paid to their father or uncle who sold them. Then at the brothel they had to pay for every crumb they ever ate, dress they wore, and even for their bedding where they lay down to get screwed by the customer as well as the madame. Add the madame's profit on top of that and they were stuck until their looks had gone and she no longer wanted them.<---F> Escape was scarcely an option</---F>. If they didn't get away they would be brought by captors expecting a good monetary reward and their punishment would be extreme, sometimes even to the point of disfigurement. Lesser crimes, like keeping a diary, or talking to someone about their plight brought the fear of a favourite punishment - cut-up hot peppers thrust into the girl's vagina which was then plugged for some hours. There are American rescue missions but the girls were told these white devils would do the worst things to them that were beyond anything they could imagine so they lied to them that they were happy. There were American customers to, but they couldn't care less, they were just hiring a prostitute. Eventually the heroine, if she can be called that, does escape to an American mission. It's quite a good part of the book, she makes friends with an itinerate tea seller who gets fired but comes back to tell her the truth of the missions. This is another chance at life. But the reality, outside of a book, is that these girls are nobodies, no-one wants to marry them or employ them. It's the same everywhere, whores are the lowest of the low even if they were only that because they were forced into it. These missions ought to offer these girls the chance of immigration into America. There they would be educated and from then on their families would be free of the poverty and culture that sold girls like the saying, ..... A girl is like a goat. Good when giving milk and babies, but no need to cry when it's time to make stew. (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [Hence, selling daughters into prostitution and the murders that are euphemistically called \"honour killings\". (hide spoiler) ] ...more AM I PRETTY? In the days after the hugging man leaves, I consider myself in the mirror. My plain self, not the self wearing lipstick and eyeliner and a flimsy dress. Sometimes I see a girl who is growing into womanhood. Other days I see a girl growing old before her time. It doesn't matter, of course. Because no one will ever want me now. Lakshmi is thirteen-years-old. She lives a simple, albeit impoverished, existence with with her Ama, infant sibling and gambling-addicted stepfather in a Nepalese AM I PRETTY? In the days after the hugging man leaves, I consider myself in the mirror. My plain self, not the self wearing lipstick and eyeliner and a flimsy dress. Sometimes I see a girl who is growing into womanhood. Other days I see a girl growing old before her time. It doesn't matter, of course. Because no one will ever want me now. Lakshmi is thirteen-years-old. She lives a simple, albeit impoverished, existence with with her Ama, infant sibling and gambling-addicted stepfather in a Nepalese village buried deep in the Himalayan mountains. She is a loving and obedient daughter and the best student in her class, but when a monsoon comes, devastating her family's home and the crops they rely on for sustenance, her simple life takes a catastrophic turn. In order to compensate for the family's crippling loss, Lakshmi's stepfather - who likens little girls to goats, \"Good as long as she gives you milk and butter..but not worth crying over when it's time to make stew\" - decides to sell Lakshmi away to a Calcutta brothel for the paltry sum of four hundred dollars. Early in the novel, Lakshmi's Ama gives her this warning: \"it is a woman's fate to suffer (and) simply to endure is to triumph.\" Told through a series of spare, free-verse vignettes, Lakshim's story is devastating, and yet somehow she endures, which - considering the myriad horrors she experiences - is most definitely a triumph. Before writing <+++>Sold</+++>, <---A>Patricia McCormick</---A> traveled to Nepal and India, interviewing both the families who sell their children (some intentionally, some because they were tricked by unscrupulous traffickers) and the children who have been sold into the trade. Thanks to her first-hand interviews and observations, <+++>Sold</+++> - although fiction - feels intensely real. Lakshmi's story could be that of any one of the 400,000 children currently in bondage, working off their bloated debts in Indian brothels, and it was that realism - mixed with a beautifully simplistic style of storytelling - that led me to devour this novel in one sitting, despite the fact that every single page found a new way to break my heart. ...more 1. This book conveys less about the triumph of the human spirit and more about how Americans fix everything. In tone it read exactly like an early missionary novel. 2. I wish people would only write novels in verse if the verse actually served some purpose in the plot or the development of the character, or if the verse was good. In Sold it's simply a weird affectation. 3. The fact brought up as an afterthought in the end notes, that Nepalese women are fighting back by educating young village wom 1. This book conveys less about the triumph of the human spirit and more about how Americans fix everything. In tone it read exactly like an early missionary novel. 2. I wish people would only write novels in verse if the verse actually served some purpose in the plot or the development of the character, or if the verse was good. In Sold it's simply a weird affectation. 3. The fact brought up as an afterthought in the end notes, that Nepalese women are fighting back by educating young village women and patrolling the borders themselves, is by far more inspirational and interesting than the acts of resistance in the story itself. A book about that would be fascinating. A topic this horrifying deserved a better book. ...more Wow another book im not sure gains a lot by being written in verse, unless it is just to slow the pacing down to better appreciate the horror. the beginning pre-sale parts were very beautifully descriptive, and then after that become very unbeautifully descriptive. its a rough subject matter that doesnt get disney-fied... until the end. What a powerful, haunting story! Written in free verse from the perspective of a 13 year old Nepalese girl, who was sold from her mountain home to earn a living as a maid in the big city. Lakshmi was saddened to leave her mother and her baby brother, but she was eager to earn a living so she could send money back to her family for necessities like clothing, food, and a new tin roof, for which they were in desperate need. But when Lakshmi leaves, she is not taken to the big city to work as a maid What a powerful, haunting story! Written in free verse from the perspective of a 13 year old Nepalese girl, who was sold from her mountain home to earn a living as a maid in the big city. Lakshmi was saddened to leave her mother and her baby brother, but she was eager to earn a living so she could send money back to her family for necessities like clothing, food, and a new tin roof, for which they were in desperate need. But when Lakshmi leaves, she is not taken to the big city to work as a maid, she is taken over the border into India where she is sold again to a brothel owner. The fact that this type of cruelty exists today is appalling to me. There were times when I was reading and I was thinking that this story took place years ago, and all the problems have, of course, been fixed by now. But then when the author mentions the fact that the girls watched The Bold and the Beautiful on tv every day, and the American who came to the brothel brought a digital camera, you realize that the time frame for the story is present day. The Author's Note at the end really brought to light the very real and current problem of sex trafficking in the world today. I remember seeing a Lifetime movie about sex trafficking in another country - cannot remember the name of the movie - but I remember being greatly affected by it. This book did the same thing for me. It was beautifully written - the vivid language brought this book to life, and the character descriptions and feelings were wrought so eloquently. I highly recommend this book - I cried for and cheered for Lakshmi - I cannot imagine what she and others like her must go through. Patricia McCormick captured this problem in real language that teenagers and adults will learn from and appreciate. ...more I don't enjoy writing long reviews. I did really enjoy this book. As a warning, do not have ANY intentions of putting this book down. I was reading it the night after a long flight from the US to the UK, and I thought, \"I'll read some before I go to bed.\" I got to the halfway mark and thought, \"Well, what's the harm in reading some more?\" And then it was over. Meaning I had spent far longer than I had intended to reading, and the book had been finished in two sittings--one on the plane and one in I don't enjoy writing long reviews. I did really enjoy this book. As a warning, do not have ANY intentions of putting this book down. I was reading it the night after a long flight from the US to the UK, and I thought, \"I'll read some before I go to bed.\" I got to the halfway mark and thought, \"Well, what's the harm in reading some more?\" And then it was over. Meaning I had spent far longer than I had intended to reading, and the book had been finished in two sittings--one on the plane and one in bed. The poetic format manages to describe with beauty events that are horrible and unthinkable to the women I know. The protagonist is incredibly easy to admire. The ending left me yearning for more, which is just fine by me. The fact that I was left wanting inspires me to get involved more and have a more immediate involvement with the stories out there like this. ...more \"Each year, nearly 12,000 Nepali girls are sold by their families, intentionally or unwittingly, into a life of sexual slavery in the brothels of India.\" This author traveled to Nepal and Calcutta for her research, interviewing aid workers and girls who have been rescued from the red-light districts of Calcutta. The book follows the path of Lakshmi, a thirteen-year-old Nepali girl, as she is sold and makes the journey to India, thinking she is going to be a maid for a rich woman. It's written for \"Each year, nearly 12,000 Nepali girls are sold by their families, intentionally or unwittingly, into a life of sexual slavery in the brothels of India.\" This author traveled to Nepal and Calcutta for her research, interviewing aid workers and girls who have been rescued from the red-light districts of Calcutta. The book follows the path of Lakshmi, a thirteen-year-old Nepali girl, as she is sold and makes the journey to India, thinking she is going to be a maid for a rich woman. It's written for young adults, so the writing is extremely spare, but the necessary details are there. Heartbreaking because you know it's true! If you know any teenage girls who are so self-struck that they don't know how good they have it, let them read this story!! :( If this were an adult book, I'd give it three stars. For the intended audience, I think it merits the fourth star. I'd like to see the author do more with her research, considering all the travel and interviewing she did. It would be nice to share it with more people in some other printed form more likely to be read by grownups. ...more While this is a quick read, it does pack quite a bit of punch. This book opens your eyes to what's going on in the world. I think everyone needs to take some time to read this one. \u201cSimply to endure is to triumph.\u201d This book was ROUGH. I read it in one sitting but I'm not sure if I should have or not because it was a lot to take in. Amazing book though. There are obviously some pretty heavy triggers in this book: child sex-trafficking, and graphic sexual and physical abuse (involving children and women). I knew going into this one that it wasn't going to be a pleasant read. It almost feels wrong to say that I liked the book. It was brutal, it was uncomfortable and worst \u201cSimply to endure is to triumph.\u201d This book was ROUGH. I read it in one sitting but I'm not sure if I should have or not because it was a lot to take in. Amazing book though. There are obviously some pretty heavy triggers in this book: child sex-trafficking, and graphic sexual and physical abuse (involving children and women). I knew going into this one that it wasn't going to be a pleasant read. It almost feels wrong to say that I liked the book. It was brutal, it was uncomfortable and worst of all it was something that is happening right now around the world. I was familiar with the topic as I've read a lot of non-fiction books on the topic and studied it a little in University. The topic never gets easier though. The book is about a 13 year old girl who gets sold into the sex trade by her step-father. She intially thinks she is going to Nepal for a better life,to becomes a ladies maid. That she will be able to provide for her family and most importantly, her mother. This lie makes the truth all the more devastating. I cried with this little girl more times than I can count. The book was beautifully and poetically written. The author had a way of drawing you in and making you feel like you are there with that child. Witnessing the horrors first hand. I recommend this with caution, as the subject matter is intense. This is a YA book and I think it would be fine for a teenager to read, since it will give them a sense of what is going on around the world to so many children. If you are worried about the subject matter, you may want to read it with your teen (or students) so that you can have an open discussion about it and address anything they may struggle with. This probably would've been a five star for me but I only give five stars to books I would read again and I don't think I could bare to go on this journey with that little girl again. ...more I'm so torn on this one. Read the entire thing in one sitting - it was gripping and staggeringly beautiful in its descriptions of everyday life - both its sublime and simple beauties and its deepest horrors. I love that it takes on sex slavery in an unflinching way - there's no ducking out on or thinking \"oh it isn't that bad\" as you read Lakshmi's narrative. But, gosh, the ending kills me. White American to the rescue! To be transparent - this is a text I'm thinking of taking on in my World Lit I'm so torn on this one. Read the entire thing in one sitting - it was gripping and staggeringly beautiful in its descriptions of everyday life - both its sublime and simple beauties and its deepest horrors. I love that it takes on sex slavery in an unflinching way - there's no ducking out on or thinking \"oh it isn't that bad\" as you read Lakshmi's narrative. But, gosh, the ending kills me. White American to the rescue! To be transparent - this is a text I'm thinking of taking on in my World Literature class this upcoming school year - so I started googling and researching this morning to try to work through the white savior mentality there at the end and figure out what the heck that was and where it came from. Found some helpful explanation from Patrica McCormick on her website - first of all, that the man at the end was based on someone she knew and this was a \"thank you\" to him and, secondly, that she wanted to help American audiences to feel empowered to do something. Fair. I think I'll probably take it on - in part to work through the \"white savior\" complex at the end - which will be a great opportunity to take on conversations of race, difference, and oppression that matter a lot given context in my classroom (i.e. I'm a white teacher going into my 9th year working with almost exclusively black students). I think that asking questions around author's purpose, sharing McCormick's rationale, and then leaving the question of whether or not this decision sits well with us or if it undermines the idea that oppressed groups can and should be empowered to take on their own problems will probably be my approach. Open to thoughts from friends or others. ...more My name is Lakshmi. I am from Nepal. I am thirteen years old. Sold is the story of Lakshmi, a girl from a small village living with her Ama, baby brother and stepfather. Her stepfather sells her for money to pay gambling debts, and she is brought to the city, only to find out that there is no maid job waiting for her. She has been sold into prostitution. This story was hard to read. Its really difficult to think about a place where a woman can be sold for $300, and purchased for a night for the pr My name is Lakshmi. I am from Nepal. I am thirteen years old. Sold is the story of Lakshmi, a girl from a small village living with her Ama, baby brother and stepfather. Her stepfather sells her for money to pay gambling debts, and she is brought to the city, only to find out that there is no maid job waiting for her. She has been sold into prostitution. This story was hard to read. Its really difficult to think about a place where a woman can be sold for $300, and purchased for a night for the price of a bottle of Coke. Where man will buy himself a nice vest while his child starves. A son will always be a son, they say. But a girl is like a goat. Good as long as she gives you milk and butter. But not worth crying over when it's time to make a stew. The chapters are short and to the point, but deal with a heavy topic. I felt the short chapters broke it up into manageable chunks and made this a fast read, but one I won't soon forget. \"Why must women suffer so?\" \"This has always been our fate. Simply to endure is to triumph.\" ...more Plot: 4.5 stars Characters: 4 stars Writing: 4 stars Ending: 3.5 stars Overall: 4 stars Heartbreaking, yet uplifting. Kesan yang saya dapat dari buku ini. Sejak pertama kali melihat buku ini di toko buku, I know I'm gonna love this book. Berkisan tentang Laksmi, gadis kecil dari Nepal berusia 13 tahun yang dijual oleh ayah tirinya sendiri ke rumah bordil. keluguan, kenaifan seorang anak kecil terpampang dengan jelas di buku ini, karena kisah ini dikisahkan dari sudut pandang si Laksmi sendiri. Buku setebal 310 halaman saya selesaikan dengan semalam karena ternyata isinya cukup ringan Heartbreaking, yet uplifting. Kesan yang saya dapat dari buku ini. Sejak pertama kali melihat buku ini di toko buku, I know I'm gonna love this book. Berkisan tentang Laksmi, gadis kecil dari Nepal berusia 13 tahun yang dijual oleh ayah tirinya sendiri ke rumah bordil. keluguan, kenaifan seorang anak kecil terpampang dengan jelas di buku ini, karena kisah ini dikisahkan dari sudut pandang si Laksmi sendiri. Buku setebal 310 halaman saya selesaikan dengan semalam karena ternyata isinya cukup ringan dan gaya penulisan yang beda dari novel biasanya. Laksmi, diiming-imingi bekerja sebagai pembantu rumah tangga di kota cukup dengan permen manis ia sudah sangat senang. Kaki tangan sang pemilik rumah bordil memberitahukan Laksmi, \"saat melewati perbatasan, engkau harus memanggilku suami!\" Laksmi yang polos, menurut saja apa kata si paman dan mereka berhasil melewati India dengan aman. Lucunya, di pikiran Laksmi, paman itu sekarang ia panggil dengan paman suami. Ketika tiba di rumah bordil, tiba waktunya Laksmi berpisah dengan paman suami, nah bagian-bagian ini membuat saya merinding. Tidak terbayangkan bagaimana rasanya seorang Laksmi, 13 tahun dipaksa melayani lelaki berbibir ikan. Pria berbibir ikan itu melepas gaunku. Kutunggu diriku untuk melawan. Namun tak ada yang terjadi. Lantas dia di atasku, dan sesuatu yang panas dan menuntut ada di antara kedua tungkaiku. (hal 162) Kira-kira seperti itulah cara penulisan Patricia di novel ini dari awal sampai akhir. Kalimatnya cukup singkat, tapi sudah berhasil membuat saya terentuh, berdebar-debar, bahkan hampir menitikkan air mata. Rumah bordil, yang di sini disebut dengan rumah kebahagiaan berhasil merebut masa gadis Laksmi, masa di mana ia seharusnya bermain dengan teman-temannya, mengerjakan pr di sekolah. Laksmi mulai terbiasa membutakan segenap panca indranya, agar ia buta dengan wajah para lelaki yang membayarnya 30 rupee (seharga dengan 1 kaleng coca cola), agar hidungnya tidak mencium bau amis para lelaki berperut gendut. Lakmi memiliki beberapa teman di rumah kebahagiaan, salah satunya bocah berbaju David Beckham, seringkali ia mengamatinya. (hal 204) Aku tahu, dari segala kegiatannya bahwa dia hanyalah laki-laki biasa. Namun, sesekali kutemukan diriku membenci dirinya. Aku benci dia karena memiliki segala buku sekolah dan teman bermain. Karena memiliki seorang ibu yang menyisir rambutnya di pagi hari. Dan, karena kemerdekaan untuk datang dan pergi sesukanya. Namun, kadangkala aku membenci diriku sendiri karena membencinya. Hanya karena dia seorang anak laki-laki biasa. Dan si laki-laki biasa ini mengajarkan Laksmi menulis dan membaca, sampai suatu ketika ia memberikan Laksmi sebuah pensil. (hal 244) Sebulir air mata bergulir di pipiku. Aku telah dipukuli di sini, dikurung, dianiaya ratusan kali, dan ratusan kali lagi. Aku telah dibiarkan kelaparan, dan ditipu, dijebak, dan dipermalukan. Betapa anehnya, aku telah luluh sepenuhnya oleh kebaikan hati seorang bocah lelaki dengan sebatang pensil kuning. Baca buku ini kebetulan juga dengan maraknya perkosaan anak kecil yang terjadi di Bali. Betapa saya mengutuk pria ini, karena ia tidak sekedar merobek selaput dara si anak, tapi sekaligus menghempaskan masa depan anak kecil tak berdosa dalam waktu 5 menit saja!! ...more Haunting and devastating. If an author is a feminist, does it mean that their writing is automatically regarded as feminist literature? Does nothing but the feminist message radiate from their being? Are they capable of bringing anything less than that into the world? Feminist writers write feminist writings. But it is not always the cut and dry \u201cHow To Be A Feminist Handbook 101\u201d type of book. No, sometimes it can touch on problems like sex trafficking and involve a female character\u2019s near constant abuse, as seen in the If an author is a feminist, does it mean that their writing is automatically regarded as feminist literature? Does nothing but the feminist message radiate from their being? Are they capable of bringing anything less than that into the world? Feminist writers write feminist writings. But it is not always the cut and dry \u201cHow To Be A Feminist Handbook 101\u201d type of book. No, sometimes it can touch on problems like sex trafficking and involve a female character\u2019s near constant abuse, as seen in the story of Lakshmi in Patricia McCormick\u2019s Sold. Now who dares read about the sexual, physical, and psychological abuse of so many female characters and has the gall to call it a feminist work? Well\u2026. The reason why this novel was written must be taken into consideration before the subject matter. This novel was written to call attention to the injustices towards going on in other parts of the world. Because, while fictional, Lakshmi\u2019s story is one that many girls can very closely relate to. Lakshmi\u2019s life is one pieced together by bits of reality. The novel takes place mostly in a brothel located in India after Lakshmi had been sold by a family member in Nepal, a practice not too uncommon in that part of the world. Lakshmi speaks for all the girls who have been sold. The author\u2019s note ends by saying that \u201cit is in their-\u201d the Nepalese girls and women brought into the life of sex trafficking- \u201chonor that this book was written\u201d (265). The novel was written in a way that makes it seem genuine, with Lakshmi as the narrator. It is the carefully crafted voice of this character that gives the writing an alarmingly real feeling. The short chapters, simple wording, and constant misnomers she would use such as calling a light bulb a \u201ctiny glass sun\u201d (3), or saying \u201cmetal wagon\u201d (63) rather than \u2018car\u2019, or \u201cpalm frond machine\u201d (95) instead of \u2018fan,\u2019 they all show her to be this naive little girl in awe of the world around her and it makes the reader feel sympathy for her, even before the sex abuse starts. The writing and use of language in this novel seems to have been very carefully chosen. It was written very well for what it was. There was a line, a line of graphicness, that could have been crossed but it hadn\u2019t. And that made it eerily beautiful and hard not to put down. McCormick wanted her reader to get through this novel with a certain level of disgust that never bubbled up far enough to put the book down but just enough to want to do something. Something to stop these things from ever happening to another girl ever again. This piece of literature is a genuinely heartbreaking read. Furthermore, it is most definitely a feminist piece of literature as it was written for the purpose of finding justice for these women and girls. ...more This book ended with Lakshmi, the main character, leaving the happiness home. The happiness home is the \"trap house\" for girls that are forced into the sex slave industry. They are usually brought from poor families in order to pay off their families' debt. In reality, however, Mumtaz, the mistress, is cheating them of their money. So they are forced to sleep with multiple men, with no reward and lost dignities. This book tends to lean towards the darker side of the general public, and tends to This book ended with Lakshmi, the main character, leaving the happiness home. The happiness home is the \"trap house\" for girls that are forced into the sex slave industry. They are usually brought from poor families in order to pay off their families' debt. In reality, however, Mumtaz, the mistress, is cheating them of their money. So they are forced to sleep with multiple men, with no reward and lost dignities. This book tends to lean towards the darker side of the general public, and tends to be more taboo. Even though this is realistic fiction, things like this are happening today. This is one of my favorite books because it focuses on one specific character, the life she has, the challenges she has to endure, and what she does to overcome them. I think that this book is good for almost any type of reader. This book includes action, adventure, and a deep sense of reality. This book will keep any reader on their toes, as well as keep them inferencing on certain plots. Overall, I thoroughly enjoyed this book, and would recommend it whole-heartedly. ...more A devastating book about a 13 year old Nepali girl sold as a sex slave in India. This difficult subject was brought to light in a quick, easy-to-listen-to format. It is not a story I will easily forget. Source: I borrowed a copy of this audio book from my local library. This book was really moving. A very inspirational story of a young and na\u00efve Nepali girl, Laxmi, sold into sexual slavery in India by her step-father. I loved how real it was. It wasn't just romance and drama many books portray nowadays, it actually told a horrible but true story.I loved the contrast between the beautiful voice telling such a horrendous tale. There were many times I was saddened by the beauty of her words, her loss, and the end, that bit of dialogue, had me in tears. Patricia Mc This book was really moving. A very inspirational story of a young and na\u00efve Nepali girl, Laxmi, sold into sexual slavery in India by her step-father. I loved how real it was. It wasn't just romance and drama many books portray nowadays, it actually told a horrible but true story.I loved the contrast between the beautiful voice telling such a horrendous tale. There were many times I was saddened by the beauty of her words, her loss, and the end, that bit of dialogue, had me in tears. Patricia McCormick has created an incredible tribute to the victims of sex-trafficking and their suffering. This book cannot be easily forgotten because its real and true for way too many women and girls who has endured this terrible experience. ...more This book is one I am mentally saving for my mother/daughter book club. My daughter is four, so I have some time...but it raises interesting topics, themes, and questions, like: 1. Sex, sex-trafficking, rape and victimization of women (no surprise there) 2. Self-respect 3. the legalization/decriminalization of prostitution/sex-work issue 4. globalization with all its dimples and warts The book written in a poetic form, but I didn't find it distracting. In fact, I think it managed to create a framewo This book is one I am mentally saving for my mother/daughter book club. My daughter is four, so I have some time...but it raises interesting topics, themes, and questions, like: 1. Sex, sex-trafficking, rape and victimization of women (no surprise there) 2. Self-respect 3. the legalization/decriminalization of prostitution/sex-work issue 4. globalization with all its dimples and warts The book written in a poetic form, but I didn't find it distracting. In fact, I think it managed to create a framework of modesty that balanced the obscenity of the subject matter. ...more Sold The book I read was Sold by Patricia McCormack. The genre is realistic fiction. The theme of the book is to stay strong and learn to speak up. The books about a thirteen year old girl named Lakshmi. Her father sells her to be a sex slave because he gambled all his money and is very selfish. Lakshmi doesn\u2019t know she was going to be sold for that reason though, she thought she was going to work as a house maid.She was sent to a house called \"the happy house\".There she made strong friendships a Sold The book I read was Sold by Patricia McCormack. The genre is realistic fiction. The theme of the book is to stay strong and learn to speak up. The books about a thirteen year old girl named Lakshmi. Her father sells her to be a sex slave because he gambled all his money and is very selfish. Lakshmi doesn\u2019t know she was going to be sold for that reason though, she thought she was going to work as a house maid.She was sent to a house called \"the happy house\".There she made strong friendships and lost people there she loved becaused they were very sick with STDs.When you are sick with STDs there the house mother,Mumtaz,would throw you out on the streets with nothing.Mumtaz told Lakshmi in order for her too leave she must pay off her families debt. When Lakshmi finally pays it all off mumtaz lies to her and says she has more work to do to leave.This is a memorable because it\u2019s sad because Laksmi\u2019s just determined to get back to her family.The worst fact I read in this book was that she had to loose her virginity by being drugged and raped.My favorite scene in this story was when she finally stood up for herself.The book was very descriptive of characters and scenes. The most vivid character was Lakshmi. The part that confused me the most was why her father would sell her in the first place.I would recommend this book to anyone thats mature enough to read it. I have never read a book about sex slavery so I cant compare it with another book.this is one of my favorite books by far because she didn\u2019t give up she always kept her hope and faith and it really opens up your mind and tells you what the world is really like. ...more Toto bola pr\u00ed\u0161ern\u00e1 kniha. Ak m\u00e1te probl\u00e9m s \"obsahom\" kn\u00edh ako Wither, Bumped, XVI alebo tak\u00e9 Kvety v podkrov\u00ed - ne\u010d\u00edtajte ju. Naozaj, mysl\u00edm to v\u00e1\u017ene. Ja som ani pri jednej z t\u00fdch menovan\u00fdch kn\u00edh ani okom nemihla, a t\u00e1to kniha bola pre m\u0148a tvrd\u00e1 k\u00e1va, kde som bola a\u017e zhnusen\u00e1. Lakshmi je zo zapadlej horskej dedinky z Nep\u00e1lu. Ke\u010f m\u00e1 13 rokov, \u00farodu im zni\u010d\u00ed monz\u00fan, rodina nem\u00e1 peniaze, a nevlastn\u00fd otec Lakshmi pred\u00e1 do Indie do bordelu. A tu mus\u00ed diev\u010da za - prepo\u010d\u00edtala som si to! - 50 centov (30 Toto bola pr\u00ed\u0161ern\u00e1 kniha. Ak m\u00e1te probl\u00e9m s \"obsahom\" kn\u00edh ako Wither, Bumped, XVI alebo tak\u00e9 Kvety v podkrov\u00ed - ne\u010d\u00edtajte ju. Naozaj, mysl\u00edm to v\u00e1\u017ene. Ja som ani pri jednej z t\u00fdch menovan\u00fdch kn\u00edh ani okom nemihla, a t\u00e1to kniha bola pre m\u0148a tvrd\u00e1 k\u00e1va, kde som bola a\u017e zhnusen\u00e1. Lakshmi je zo zapadlej horskej dedinky z Nep\u00e1lu. Ke\u010f m\u00e1 13 rokov, \u00farodu im zni\u010d\u00ed monz\u00fan, rodina nem\u00e1 peniaze, a nevlastn\u00fd otec Lakshmi pred\u00e1 do Indie do bordelu. A tu mus\u00ed diev\u010da za - prepo\u010d\u00edtala som si to! - 50 centov (30 indick\u00fdch rupi\u00ed) - \"pracova\u0165,\" pokia\u013e sa nevyk\u00fapi. Ani neviem, ako to v\u0161etko op\u00edsa\u0165. Brut\u00e1lne. Surov\u00e9. Odporn\u00e9. Je to kniha nap\u00edsan\u00e1 vo ver\u0161och, ale nie tak klasicky - tie ver\u0161e s\u00fa stra\u0161ne dlh\u00e9 a ani ako ver\u0161e nevyzeraj\u00fa, \u010d\u00edta sa to skoro ako beletria. Len v\u010faka t\u00fdm \"ver\u0161om\" je t\u00e1 kniha poskladan\u00e1 len z \u00faryvkov alebo reflexi\u00ed, tak\u017ee sa \u010d\u00edta ozaj r\u00fdchlo. Prv\u00e1 polovica je pomal\u0161ia, druh\u00e1 ubehne v sekunde. Uf, a tie pocity... d\u00e1vno mi nebolo hrdinky TAK \u013e\u00fato! Chv\u00ed\u013ekami som jej \u017eelala, aby aj sp\u00e1chala samovra\u017edu, len nech sa z toho dostane... Ke\u010f sa nakoniec (view spoiler) [ Lakshmi podar\u00ed ujs\u0165, tak som mala od \u0161\u0165astia slzy v o\u010diach. (hide spoiler) ] Nem\u00e1m slov na to, ako to lep\u0161ie ohodnoti\u0165, no nutne teraz potrebujem nie\u010do hl\u00fape a vesel\u00e9. \u2018They say Monica has a child at home,\u2019 Shahanna says. \u2018If she runs off, Mumtaz will take the child.\u2019 \u2018What would Mumtaz want with a child?\u2019 \u2018She will maim it \u2013 cut off a hand, a foot \u2013 and sell the child to a beggar woman,\u2019 she says. \u2018Soft-hearted people will give an extra rupee or two if you have a sick baby.\u2019 ...more A very disturbing book. A young girl (called a \u201ctween\u201d in the US but lives a life worlds away from the typical American teenager) and her mother, baby brother, and stepfather scratches out a living in Nepal. After her stepfather\u2019s debt and unemployment force Lakshmi\u2019s mother to sell her only valuable possession, the stepfather gambles away the last of the family\u2019s money. He sells Lakshmi to a brothel in India, all the while Lakshmi thinking she will go work as a maid in the city. The reader obse A very disturbing book. A young girl (called a \u201ctween\u201d in the US but lives a life worlds away from the typical American teenager) and her mother, baby brother, and stepfather scratches out a living in Nepal. After her stepfather\u2019s debt and unemployment force Lakshmi\u2019s mother to sell her only valuable possession, the stepfather gambles away the last of the family\u2019s money. He sells Lakshmi to a brothel in India, all the while Lakshmi thinking she will go work as a maid in the city. The reader observes bursts of descriptive moments in Lakshmi\u2019s sad life. This book is haunting with a world-is-a-horrible-place aftertaste. It\u2019s depressing that there are family members who would take money for the violation of their daughters and sisters. It\u2019s pathetic that there is a market for the sex trade itself, it\u2019s a overwhelmingly tragedy that young girls are in demand. The book does show hopeful rays\u2014the friendship between Lakshmi and a little boy, the fact that there are people who want to shut these brothels down. ...more Approximate Interest Level/Reading Level: High School (GLE 4.8) Format: Verse Novel Awards: ALA Best Books for Young Adults (2007), National Book Award Honor for Young People's Literature (2006), Notable Social Studies Trade Books (2007), Ten Best Books for Young Adults (2007) Plagued by drought then flood, a struggling family\u2019s livelihood along with 13 year old Lakshmi\u2019s future is lost. Leaving her mother and the only home she has even known in the Himalayas of Nepal, Lakshmi is sold by her stepfa Approximate Interest Level/Reading Level: High School (GLE 4.8) Format: Verse Novel Awards: ALA Best Books for Young Adults (2007), National Book Award Honor for Young People's Literature (2006), Notable Social Studies Trade Books (2007), Ten Best Books for Young Adults (2007) Plagued by drought then flood, a struggling family\u2019s livelihood along with 13 year old Lakshmi\u2019s future is lost. Leaving her mother and the only home she has even known in the Himalayas of Nepal, Lakshmi is sold by her stepfather into a life of indentured prostitution in slums of Calcutta. Written in honor of the thousands of young girls who fall victim to this vicious trade, this novel provides a heartbreaking glimpse into the brutal world of sexual slavery. This novel would be great to use in a collection when exploring themes such as women's rights, children\u2019s rights, and poverty from a global perspective. ...more Wow. This books was intense. And infuriating and unjust and powerful and sad and painful, but necessary. Part of me was thinking that perhaps the graphic nature of the abuse Lakshimi faces is not appropriate for MS readers, but then I remembered the hundreds of thousands of young girls who must face this brutality every year. We owe it to them to at least read their stories and hopefully work toward a more just and equal society for girls and women worldwide, but especially in developing countri Wow. This books was intense. And infuriating and unjust and powerful and sad and painful, but necessary. Part of me was thinking that perhaps the graphic nature of the abuse Lakshimi faces is not appropriate for MS readers, but then I remembered the hundreds of thousands of young girls who must face this brutality every year. We owe it to them to at least read their stories and hopefully work toward a more just and equal society for girls and women worldwide, but especially in developing countries. This book made me angry and sad for how men treat woman in so many of our cultures worldwide. I think it is important for boys and girls to read books like this so as to begin to make change in our own cultures. This is definitely a book for the more mature reader because of the sexual content, but it is written with a brute honesty and simple poetic language that will force you to read it in one or two sittings. ...more This book can be summarized in a few words. SIMPLY SAD, BUT A REALITY FOR SOME. Human trafficking is such a sad crime. It is also sometimes difficult to prosecute because of all the moving elements in these cases and the revolving people involved. This story was a sad one. I found this book in the young adult section of the bookstore but after reading it I don't think it is for young adults although the chapters are very short. I was able to read this in 1 day during breaks and lunch time from w This book can be summarized in a few words. SIMPLY SAD, BUT A REALITY FOR SOME. Human trafficking is such a sad crime. It is also sometimes difficult to prosecute because of all the moving elements in these cases and the revolving people involved. This story was a sad one. I found this book in the young adult section of the bookstore but after reading it I don't think it is for young adults although the chapters are very short. I was able to read this in 1 day during breaks and lunch time from work. When I first read \"Sold\", I thought it was a true story but then realized it is a fictional story based on facts. The author met with some of the victims of human trafficking in Nepal & India and wrote this story based on candid interviews she did with some of the Red Light District workers in some of the brothels. I highly recommend this book to everyone as it will open your eyes on what goes on in other countries and sad to say even here in the United States. ...more I must say that at the beginning i loved this book and then towards the middle or when you got to the juicy part of the book i decided that i did not like it. i thought that it is too disturbing and akward to read but after a while i became addicted i felt her emotions as i read through this book and i must say that i was sad when i finished it. i must say that i can't really relate to her on the same levels but i can say that i would rather die a thousand deaths than to ever and i repaet ever I must say that at the beginning i loved this book and then towards the middle or when you got to the juicy part of the book i decided that i did not like it. i thought that it is too disturbing and akward to read but after a while i became addicted i felt her emotions as i read through this book and i must say that i was sad when i finished it. i must say that i can't really relate to her on the same levels but i can say that i would rather die a thousand deaths than to ever and i repaet ever be in her poaition. this book opened my eyes to what is out there and what people are really and truely like, it is one of the most sad and disturbing books i have ever read. i fell in and out of this book and that is what i am looking for in a book. I would recommend this book to all girls and maybe some guys. This book totally is one of those books that you just have to love:) ...more Apparently this has a film adaptation, but I've never seen it. This is another MG/YA book told in free verse, and it's about a 13-year old Nepali girl sold to a brothel. I think free verse is an appropriate choice for the audience: it slows down the reader just enough to really think about what is being said between the lines and the implications of what is happening just off the page. I taught middle school last year, and you'd never be allowed to bring books like this into the classroom if ther Apparently this has a film adaptation, but I've never seen it. This is another MG/YA book told in free verse, and it's about a 13-year old Nepali girl sold to a brothel. I think free verse is an appropriate choice for the audience: it slows down the reader just enough to really think about what is being said between the lines and the implications of what is happening just off the page. I taught middle school last year, and you'd never be allowed to bring books like this into the classroom if there was a whiff of on-page sex. To wit: I couldn't add it to my classroom, even though posters for it were pasted all over the paired high school. Worthy free-verse novels to read alongside might be The Red Pencil or Brown Girl Dreaming . The Queen of Water is another possibility, similarly looking at human trafficking of young girls in Ecuador. A novelization though. ...more You wont be the same person after reading this. A heartbreaking story. \"It doesn't matter, of course. Because no one will ever want me now.\" Beautifully written in free verse on a such a dark topic. I would recommend as a starting point if you ever want to read about human trafficking, particularly about the Indian subcontinent.<---C>Patricia McCormick</---C>", "Title": "Sold"},
