{"Comments": "Breathtaking and highly realistic, <+++>The Plot Against America</+++> is <---A>Philip Roth</---A>'s vision of an alternative path history could have taken had Charles Lindbergh have not kept his anti-Semitism as a private matter, but (<---B>like Mr Trump</---B>) brought it into the political arena. In it, Roth features himself as the 6-8 year old narrator seeing the events from a Jewish kid's eyes in Newark. The scenario is Interesting, but what Roth does best is describe the terror and uncertainty of the days during this fictive Breathtaking and highly realistic, <+++>The Plot Against America</+++> is Philip Roth's vision of an alternative path history could have taken had Charles Lindbergh have not kept his anti-Semitism as a private matter, but (like Mr Trump) brought it into the political arena. In it, Roth features himself as the 6-8 year old narrator seeing the events from a Jewish kid's eyes in Newark. The scenario is Interesting, but what Roth does best is describe the terror and uncertainty of the days during this fictive version of 1940-1942 where the US President proudly wears a medal from Hitler (and in real life, Lindbergh did have one from G\u00f6ring as Roth points out in the fascinating and exhaustive \"real history\" postscript) and introduces seemingly innocuous programs that are aimed at destroying the Jewish community. I will not give any spoilers because - even if it is too late before Election Day 2016 to read this - it is an excellent book and I would not want someone to read this review and pass it over. I did not give it five stars because as much as I liked it,<---M> it was not the narrative</---M>, gorgeous masterpiece that American Pastoral or The Human Stain were. Nonetheless, it is in the high end of the Roth oeuvre which I have discovered over the last few months to be endlessly full of surprises and variety - perhaps more so than most of the other writers I have read. Perhaps the Nobel committee would have gotten a callback had Roth been picked over Zimmerman this year? I cannot insist enough that this is a critical book to read NOW. The renaming of Inauguration Day by Drumpf is particularly chilling...and the promotion of Bannon to the National Security Council should scare the shit out of you. Here is a recent article from the New Yorker where Roth says that Trump is actually far worse than what he had imagined with Lindbergh.<---F> Resist, we must resist</---F>. ...more Counter-factual historical fiction, in the manner of Robert Harris' Fatherland . In it, Charles Lindbergh, the anti-Semitic aviator and admirer of the Nazis, wins the U.S. presidency by campaigning against FDR on a platform of non-intervention in the European war. I think it especially poignant now given the political ascendancy of a certain demagogic New York \"billionaire\" known primarily for his nattering narcissism and pathological lying. Though at times intricate and compelling, this is not Counter-factual historical fiction, in the manner of Robert Harris' Fatherland . In it, Charles Lindbergh, the anti-Semitic aviator and admirer of the Nazis, wins the U.S. presidency by campaigning against FDR on a platform of non-intervention in the European war. I think it especially poignant now given the political ascendancy of a certain demagogic New York \"billionaire\" known primarily for his nattering narcissism and pathological lying. Though at times intricate and compelling, this is not Roth's best. It's a somewhat uneven performance from the man who gave us the astonishing American Pastoral and the hilarious through-the-roof masterpiece, The Counterlife . But I'd argue that because the result is flatter and more straightforward than usual, one is able to see more plainly the book's structural devices. In his more dazzling works the technique tends to vanish within the beguiling magic of his prose. ...more My preparedness for the regime change taking place in the United States--with elements of the Electoral College, the Kremlin and the FBI helping to install a failed business promoter who the majority of American voters did not support in the election--ends with The Plot Against America by Philip Roth, an elaborately woven and eerily prognostic alternate history. Published in 2004, the Pulitzer Prize winner supposes that aviator, dinner party anti-Semite and Nazi Party favorite Charles A. Lindber My preparedness for the regime change taking place in the United States--with elements of the Electoral College, the Kremlin and the FBI helping to install a failed business promoter who the majority of American voters did not support in the election--ends with The Plot Against America by Philip Roth, an elaborately woven and eerily prognostic alternate history. Published in 2004, the Pulitzer Prize winner supposes that aviator, dinner party anti-Semite and Nazi Party favorite Charles A. Lindbergh wins the Republican Party nomination in 1940. On a platform of \"America First\" and keeping the U.S.A. out of war, Lindy defies pollsters and denies President Franklin D. Roosevelt a third term. His regime targets a religious minority, in this case, Jews. The audacious story is the first person account of Philip Roth, who in 1940 really was a seven-year-old postage stamp collector growing up in the Jewish enclave of Weequahic in Newark, New Jersey, where the novel is set. The alternate history Philip has a twelve year old brother named Sandy, a prodigious artist. Their father Herman is a thirty-nine year old insurance agent whose fifty-dollar per week salary pays the bills and little more. Their thirty-six-year-old mother Bess is a tiny woman who manages the household. She shares her husband's ardor for the United States, the Constitution, President Roosevelt, the New Deal and the Democratic Party. Philip recounts how Charles Lindbergh was once a hero in his neighborhood, following the aviator's historic flight from Long Island to Paris aboard the Spirit of St. Louis in 1927. Eleven years later, Germany's mounting terror campaign against Jews is underway across Europe and Lindbergh accepts a Service Cross of the German Eagle during a visit to Berlin. A stoic celebrity who reaps public sympathy following the mysterious kidnapping and murder of his son in 1932, Lindy strides into a deadlocked Republican National Convention in Philadelphia in 1940. Philip and Sandy are wakened by the exclamation of their mother, father and older cousin Alvin as they listen by radio. The anger that night was the real roaring forge, the furnace that takes you and twists you like steel. And it didn't subside--not while Lindbergh stood silently at the Philadelphia rostrum and heard himself being cheered once again as the nation's savoir, nor when he gave the speech accepting his party's nomination and with it the mandate to keep America out of the European war. We all waited in terror to hear him repeat to the convention his malicious vilification of the Jews, but that he didn't made no difference to the mood that carried every last family on the block out into the street at nearly five in the morning. Entire families known to me previously only fully dressed in daytime clothing were wearing pajamas and nightdresses under their bathrobes and milling around in their slippers at dawn as if driven from their homes by an earthquake. In the short term, the Roths' spirits are raised by their national heroes. President Roosevelt welcomes a celebrity opponent in Lindbergh with no political experience who is on record for supporting foreign dictators and disparaging Jews. Bombastic muckracker Walter Winchell minces no words in assailing Lindbergh in his weekly radio broadcast. They join luminaries such as New York mayor Fiorello LaGuardia, United Mine Workers president John L. Lewis and journalist Dorothy Thompson pronouncing Lindbergh as unfit for office. Philip's cousin Alvin, however, predicts that America is going fascist. He departs for Canada to join the fight against Hitler. Polls two weeks before the election show FDR comfortably ahead in both the popular vote and the Electoral College. Republican officials reportedly grouse at Lindbergh's insistence to steer his own campaign, piloting the Spirit of St. Louis from state to state and offering nil about his potential administration. His platform is simple: Your choice is Lindbergh or war. His campaign gets an assist from Rabbi Lionel Bengelsdorf of Newark's B'nai Moshe temple when he vouches for Lindbergh at a rally in Madison Square Garden. The rabbi's message to gentiles that a vote for Lindy is not a vote for antisemitism spurs a landslide victory for the challenger. President Lindbergh meets Adolf Hitler in Iceland to sign an \"understanding\" of non-aggression, as well as with emissaries of Emperor Hirohito in Hawaii. The deals ignite protests in a dozen U.S. cities, but most of the country rejoices at peace. In an attempt to show Philip and Sandy that America has not gone fascist, the Roths undertake a vacation to Washington D.C. Returning to their hotel, the Roths discover that their reservation has been canceled and they've been evicted. Bess is skittish to the point of tipping over into paranoia. Her husband is unable to keep his antipathy for the new president quiet, drawing remarks of \"loudmouth Jew\" from two tourists at the Lincoln Memorial. But my father could see nothing. \"You think you'd hear that here if Roosevelt was president? People wouldn't dare, they wouldn't dream, in Roosevelt's day ...,\" my father said. \"But now that our great ally is Adolf Hitler, now that the best friend of the president of the United States is Adolf Hitler--why, now they think they can get away with anything. It's disgraceful. It starts with the White House ...\" Whom was he talking to other than me? My brother was trailing after Mr. Taylor, asking about the mural, and my mother was trying to prevent herself from saying or doing anything, struggling against the very emotions that had overpowered her earlier in the car--and back then without anything like this much justification. \"Read that,\"my father said, alluding to the tablet bearing the Gettysburg Address. \"Just read it. 'All men are created equal.'\" While the president praises Hitler as the world's safeguard against the spread of Communism and Germany pushes the Russians east, the Lindbergh administration hits close to home for the Roths by forming the Office of American Absorption and the Just Folks campaign, a \"mentoring\" program for select Jewish boys aged twelve to eighteen offering eight weeks with a sponsor family to learn farming. Bess' younger sister Evelyn, secretary and mistress to Rabbi Bengelsdorf, helps Sandy qualify for the program, which his father sees through as a fifth column intended to set Jewish boys against their elders and fracture the community. Alvin loses his left leg below the knee in battle and returns to Newark. Philip assists his cousin with his bandaged stump and tries to keep his brother Sandy's admiration for Lindbergh a secret from his cousin, who feels like a chump for going off to fight Hitler for the benefit of Philip's father. He learns to walk again using a prosthetic and takes a job at a grocer owned by another uncle, but when an FBI agent shows up asking questions about Alvin, his uncle buckles under pressure and fires his nephew, who disappears to work in a numbers-running racket. When Sandy is invited to the White House by his Aunt Evelyn, his mother and father refuse, devastating Philip's brother. Shepsie Tirschwell, a projectionist at the Newsreel Theater, sees what's going on in current events and tells Herman that he's moving his family to Montreal. Bess takes a seasonal job at a department store and opens a savings account in Canada in case they too need to leave in a hurry. Her husband refuses to be driven from his country, offering that it is the fascists who should get out. In May 1942, his employer complies with Homestead 42, an initiative by the OAA to thin ethnic minorities from the cities and resettle them in rural areas, purportedly to homogenize the nation. His decision to quit his job turns out to be prescient, while his refusal to leave for Canada is perilous. Bess is livid. \"And just where do they get the gall to do this to people?\" my mother asked. \"I am dumbfounded, Herman. Our families are here. Our lifelong friends are here. The children's friends are here. We have lived in peace and harmony here all of our lives. We are only a block from the best elementary school in Newark. We are a block from the best high school in New Jersey. Our boys have been raised among Jews. They go to school with other Jewish children. There is no friction with the other children. There is no name-calling. There are no fights. They have never had to feel left out and lonely the way I did as a child. I cannot believe the company is doing this to you. The way you have worked for these people, the hours that you put in, the effort--and this,\" she said angrily, \"is the reward.\" Like many of Philip Roth's books, The Plot Against America has a clunky title that indicates non-fiction or a symposium, anything but a compelling novel. And before this year, it might not have been. It seems as if half the book is a riff on Roth's boyhood in Newark--his family relations, his odd friendships, his search for his identity. The autobiographical detail grows self-indulgent and my eyes even started to glaze over paragraphs wandering away from President Lindbergh or his destructive impact on the Roths. The author favors marathon sentences and can spend two paragraphs describing nuns, which does not lend itself to a tense dystopian read. The marvel of the novel is how seamlessly it blends historical fact and devastating fantasy, as well as how accurately it predicts a regime change in the United States. Given his era and his military bent, Lindbergh is stoic where our current president is emotionally unstable, but Lindy is as great a celebrity, cruising through his first election campaign (against a heavily favored Democrat) by appealing to the country's best intentions as well as its base hatreds, against politicians, the media and an ethnic minority. The fear Lindbergh's statements and policies strike in Jews is analogous to that felt by immigrants in our country today and laid out for all its repulsive fascism by Roth. If there was a novel that utilizes fantasy elements to address the very real fear and hatred being stoked right now, and why none of us are going to like where \"America First\" leads, The Plot Against America is it. The autobiographical material that serves as a bedrock did grow long in the tooth, but at the same time, the overall effect grounds the novel in reality in a way that science fiction cannot when tackling authoritarian dystopia. Roth's approach is highly effective, personal and chilling the deeper he takes us into Lindbergh's presidency. He includes a handy postscript that offers a true chronology of the historical figures who play a role in this eerie alternate history. The novel offers a warning, which Mayor LaGuardia voices memorably: \"There's a plot afoot all right, and I'll gladly name the forces propelling it--hysteria, ignorance, malice, stupidity, hatred, and fear. What a repugnant spectacle our country has become! Falsehood, cruelty, and madness everywhere, and brute force in the wings waiting to finish us off. Now we read in the Chicago Tribune that all these years clever Jewish bakers have been using the blood of the kidnapped Lindbergh child for making Passover matzohs in Poland--a story as nutty today as when it was first concocted by anti-Semitic maniacs five hundred years ago. How it must please the F\u00fchrer to be poisoning our country with this sinister nonsense. Jewish interests. Jewish elements. Jewish usurers. Jewish retaliation. Jewish conspiracies. A Jewish war against the world. To have enslaved America with this hocus-pocus! To have captured the mind of the world's greatest nation without uttering a single word of truth! Oh, the pleasure we must be affording the most malevolent man on earth!\" ...more Some said Philip Roth is the new messiah of modern writers. Philip Roth is overrated, said others. So I read a couple of Roth's books, Exit Ghost and Everyman . With only those to go on, to me, Roth seemed like your typical aging curmudgeon. Nothing special, just an old man venting through literature his disgruntled annoyance at no longer being able to get an erection. I was ready to call it quits on him, but felt like maybe I should try one more. So I read The Plot Against America . Boy, am I glad Some said Philip Roth is the new messiah of modern writers. Philip Roth is overrated, said others. So I read a couple of Roth's books, Exit Ghost and Everyman . With only those to go on, to me, Roth seemed like your typical aging curmudgeon. Nothing special, just an old man venting through literature his disgruntled annoyance at no longer being able to get an erection. I was ready to call it quits on him, but felt like maybe I should try one more. So I read The Plot Against America . Boy, am I glad I did. What a joy! Indeed, I enjoyed everything about this \"what if\", coming-of-age tale where horrors, both real and imagined, feed into and upon the novel's building tension. Horrors and the heart of a child. Childhood and the heart of a family. This is war vs. peace. The good, the bad and all that falls in between. This is the story of a young Jewish boy growing up as American as can be in the New Jersey suburbs of the early 1940s. Germany is at war with the world. Hitler and his Nazis are at war with the Jews. President Roosevelt is campaigning for a 3rd term in office. Then Roth throws a monkey wrench into the works, presenting an alternative universe where, instead of facing off with and defeating Wendell Willkie, FDR is confronted with and defeated by the intensely popular Charles Lindbergh. With their flyboy hero at America's helm, the isolationist Republicans as well as the Nazis themselves can use Lindbergh as a tool to meet their ends. Aside from some fiddling with the Lindbergh baby history, that's about where the historical fiction ends. Lindbergh was an isolationist. He did occasionally let slip with an antisemitic remark. He did receive a medal from Goring on behalf of Hitler, and he did refuse to give it up. FDR did believe Charles Lindbergh to be a Nazi. Lindbergh's wife did privately wonder in her diary what the *bleeep!* her Swedish, Arian husband was thinking when he spouted anti Jewish nonsense. There's so very much more that truly did happen, whether you believe it or not, which Roth includes in his novel, but I won't spoil the glorious tapestry that lavishly drapes the background of what is actually Philip Roth's childhood autobiography, at least a fictionalized recounting. Much of The Plot Against America feels just like the movie Stand By Me. Boys being boys, having fun, experiencing life through youthful eyes, making mountains out of mole hills, and nearly getting buried beneath the true mountains. As a coming-of-age tale, you'll find few finer. Prior to reading this, I would've described Roth's work as Vonnegut-esque but without the humor. Here though, the humor - on occasions a bit dark - is in full throat and fine form. I love nothing more than connecting with human behavior via the stories of our interconnect childhoods. We were all young once and it is a pleasure to share that common ground. Roth shares his suburban American-Jewish upbringing at the height of Jewish persecution in the modern age and it is a joy to read. ...more \"It is now life and not art that requires the willing suspension of disbelief. \" Lionel Trilling \u201cThe pompous son of a bitch knows everything. It's too bad he doesn't know anything else.\u201d \" --nor had I understood til then how the shameless vanity of utter fools can so strongly determine the fate of others \u201d \u201c How can people like these be in charge of our country? If I didn\u2019t see it with my own eyes, I\u2019d think I was having a hallucination. \u201d Philip Roth, The Plot Against America Philip Roth's con \"It is now life and not art that requires the willing suspension of disbelief. \" Lionel Trilling \u201cThe pompous son of a bitch knows everything. It's too bad he doesn't know anything else.\u201d \" --nor had I understood til then how the shameless vanity of utter fools can so strongly determine the fate of others \u201d \u201c How can people like these be in charge of our country? If I didn\u2019t see it with my own eyes, I\u2019d think I was having a hallucination. \u201d Philip Roth, The Plot Against America Philip Roth's convincing tale of an alternate U.S. history has been made all the more plausible by recent events. I mean, look again at these quotes. In this 1940 America, the heroic Charles Lindbergh, known as an isolationist and admirer of Hitler in his early years, is elected U.S. President in a landslide over FDR by voters fearful of becoming involved in another European war. The U.S. does not get involved in WWII and the election unleashes a swelling tide of anti-Semitism resulting, ultimately, in assignments of Jewish citizens to certain areas designated by the U.S. government's new Office of American Absorption. Roth impressively paints this tense fictional world in the Newark, New Jersey in which he himself was raised. He narrates through his early teen, fictional self providing an absorbing read made more captivating by recent Russian interference with the U.S. Presidential election and is even more timely and chilling on this inaugural eve. ...more I gave this book 4 stars. I probably would have given it 5 had it not gotten a bit weak towards the end and the author seemed to lose focus of where his story was going. It seemed like he wanted it to end whereas I wanted it to continue on. First off let me say this book is NOT what most of these reviewers are calling it. It is far too complex to be thrown into a category of \"what-if\" histories. The first thing that came to mind when I read it was that is was a memoir. In fact it reminded me a l I gave this book 4 stars. I probably would have given it 5 had it not gotten a bit weak towards the end and the author seemed to lose focus of where his story was going. It seemed like he wanted it to end whereas I wanted it to continue on. First off let me say this book is NOT what most of these reviewers are calling it. It is far too complex to be thrown into a category of \"what-if\" histories. The first thing that came to mind when I read it was that is was a memoir. In fact it reminded me a lot of Frank McCourt's work, but only much better. That is not to say that there is not a \"what-if\" angle to the book. That is obvious. And kind of like Harry Turtldove's books, Roth is not dealing too much with the actual history and consequences of the twist of events. He is dealing with the actual people--notably his own family and only throwing in the historical figures as they played a role in their everyday lives. Once I acknowledged that this was a very unique memoir, I read it as such. Yes I understand the author has \"A Novel\" posted on the cover. But it is written as a memoir and should be read in that way. You do not read biographies like you do novels, nor the Bible like you would The Odyssey. Same goes here. It is a novel because it is fiction, but Roth is a brilliant writer that can present it as a memoir detailing a specific moment in his life, but presenting it now in a way that expresses the extreme fear that bubbled within the Jewish communities of the East Coast. And he succeeds. America has forgotten in our collected back-patting and our victories in saving the world from the Nazis that we had some of the very same anti-Semetic sentiments in our own country. We quickly criticize drunken-rages by famous actors but forget that our own heros of American history held these views soberly (Limbergh and Henry Ford). And it is because of these underlying views that Roth seeks to throw a mirror up to ourselves and question how close we came to having our own (Final) \"American Solution.\" The only thing that kept this from being 5 stars was the weakening of an exposition of \"events\" towards the end. It did help give background but I thought someone with Roth's writing talent and given the incredible journey he had already taken me on, he could have filled in the \"historical gaps\" better. And the twist of an ending, though hardly a happy one, was very unexpected and forced me to charge through the last 100 or so pages staying up late at night to do so. Read this book with an open mind and with a mind on our own dark history in mind. ...more This book should be as high on your TBR as 1984 , Animal Farm , Snowball's Chance , and Christian Nation are already. I hope they are, anyway. Rating: 4* of five In my quest for article-fodder, I reread this book. I'd forgotten how much I dislike Roth's use of \"Philip Roth\" as a character, it still feels like a cutesy-poo arched eyebrow and crooked little finger at a tea party given by That Cousin *pursed lips and tiny warning shakes of the head* of Your Father's. But the election of President Lindber This book should be as high on your TBR as 1984 , Animal Farm , Snowball's Chance , and Christian Nation are already. I hope they are, anyway. Rating: 4* of five In my quest for article-fodder, I reread this book. I'd forgotten how much I dislike Roth's use of \"Philip Roth\" as a character, it still feels like a cutesy-poo arched eyebrow and crooked little finger at a tea party given by That Cousin *pursed lips and tiny warning shakes of the head* of Your Father's. But the election of President Lindbergh didn't so much as raise a hair in my truth-sensitive eyebrows. The slow descent into thuggish public behavior as the new norm, the collective \"meh, so what\" from those not affected, the disbelieving helplessness of the affected...Roth nailed it. Look around you. ...more I don't usually do this, but I'm halfway through this book and I want to write a review of my progress so far. For a couple of reasons: 1. The thought has crossed my mind a couple times in the first 200 pages to put the book down. If I don't finish it, I'll probably never write a full review. 2. As I near the midsection of the book, it becomes clearer that things might be about to turn upside down. If so, by the time I finish it I probably will have erased from memory everything I'm thinking about I don't usually do this, but I'm halfway through this book and I want to write a review of my progress so far. For a couple of reasons: 1. The thought has crossed my mind a couple times in the first 200 pages to put the book down. If I don't finish it, I'll probably never write a full review. 2. As I near the midsection of the book, it becomes clearer that things might be about to turn upside down. If so, by the time I finish it I probably will have erased from memory everything I'm thinking about this book now. Anyway, this book is nothing like I thought it would be. With the title of The Plot Against America and a giant swastika on the cover, I expected it to be some sort of post-apocalyptic political thriller. Especially after just finishing, The Handmaid's Tale , I had high hopes. Well, it turns out to not be so much about Charles Lindbergh's fascist takeover of the USA. Instead it's a [fabricated:] autobiography of Philip Roth, then a 9-year-old Jewish boy growing up in Newark, set in an America where Republican Lindbergh defeated FDR in the 1940 election. Lindbergh is an anti-semite who, instead of entering World War II, signs a Memorandum of Understanding with Hitler's Germany--which would lead the reader to believe something ominous is in the works. But for 200 pages, it's just a droll account of Roth's childhood. The most excitement so far is Roth's older cousin who joins up with the Canadian military only to lose a leg fighting in France. One sinister thing the Lindbergh administration has done is introduce the Office of American Absorption [OAA:], which sounds like it belongs in the alphabet soup of FDR's New Deal. Though benign on its face, the OAA seeks to assimilate \"minority\" [i.e., Jewish:] youth into rural American life, thus driving a wedge between them and their parents. Roth's brother Sandy spent a summer in Kentucky with a pro-Lindbergh family and now he's back home in Newark and moody. It's not exactly Hitler Jugend, but it's what passes for drama in this book. That's my report so far. We'll see what the final 200 pages hold. ------------------------------------ Well, I finished the book. I don't really have the time or the inclination to give any more of an in-depth review, so I'll just say this. The rise AND the defeat of a fascist American government happened in all of EIGHT (8) pages. The entire escapade was condensed into a short newsreel blurb. It turns out that Roth is supposed to be one of the greatest living writers of our age, but I didn't see it. This book was a literary cock-tease. The emotional tension built up by the Lindbergh administration's machinations was betrayed by a fizzling, easily forgettable climax. ...more How can this be happening in America? How can people like these be in charge of our country? If I didn't see it with my own eyes, I'd think I was having a hallucination. There's a plot afoot all right, and I'll gladly name the forces propelling it - hysteria, ignorance, malice, stupidity, hatred, and fear. What a repugnant spectacle our country has become! Falsehood, cruelty, and madness everywhere, and brute force in the wings waiting to finish us off. One star??!!!?? Really???!!! I gotta be kidding right? Either that or I\u2019m on some kind of crazy drug trip. Well, no. I really \u201cdid not like\u201d this book. Hence, the single solitary star. I hate it when mainstream novelists try their hand at science fiction. They usually muck it up. This is not too surprising given the disregard most of them have for science fiction in the first place. It\u2019s even worse when the science-fiction novel in question is a thinly disguised political rant because the politi One star??!!!?? Really???!!! I gotta be kidding right? Either that or I\u2019m on some kind of crazy drug trip. Well, no. I really \u201cdid not like\u201d this book. Hence, the single solitary star. I hate it when mainstream novelists try their hand at science fiction. They usually muck it up. This is not too surprising given the disregard most of them have for science fiction in the first place. It\u2019s even worse when the science-fiction novel in question is a thinly disguised political rant because the politics overwhelms everything else. Paul Theroux had that problem with O-Zone . Philip Roth has that problem with The Plot Against America . This alternate history written during the presidency of Bush bis is clearly an attack against the Republican party and its supporters. Notwithstanding my personal inclinations towards such a viewpoint, I found the book deeply dislikeable. The novel depicts an America in which a President Charles Lindberg, Republican, signs a peace treaty with Germany, Italy, and Japan, having won the election on the promise of peace. Both houses of Congress are also delivered into the hands of the Republican party by crushing majorities. The movement to war is derided as a product of a Jewish conspiracy, and programmes to integrate American Jews into the American community are launched. Given what we know of World War II, we are clearly intended to suspect that such programmes are little more than thin disguises for a later Jewish pogrom. With President Lindberg at the helm, in the space of two years, virulent anti-Semitism spreads and American undergoes its own kristallnacht . Democracy is replaced by fascism almost overnight. As an alternate history, I found this to be pure bunkum: poorly put together and thought through. Even more damning is that it is depicted in a manner that I found entirely unconvincing. Now, I am quite ready to believe that no country, with absolutely no exceptions, is immune from embracing totalitarianism. That was not why I found the novel unconvincing. I found it unconvincing because Roth never takes the trouble to show us how the America in his novel comes to embrace fascism. In his America, large majorities of the American citizenry are apparently in hearty support of this course. The only reason Roth gives for their adulatory approval of this trajectory is their desire not to be drawn into war. All events are seen from the perspective of the narrator, an alternate world Philip Roth, aged nine, living with his family in a tight-knit Jewish community more or less isolated by choice from the rest of white America. From this perspective, we are only allowed to see how the programmes initiated by President Lindberg\u2014apparently with the full support of the WASP-majority, the black minority, and the wealthy Jewish community\u2014impact their lives and shatter the young Roth\u2019s hitherto happy and comfortable childhood. As I remarked, I do not believe that any society has some kind of natural anti-body against totalitarianism. However, I do believe that such ideas first require fertile ground in which to grow. A prosperous, peaceful nation is not the kind of ground that is ordinarily readily receptive to such ideas. In the novel, at the time of Lindberg\u2019s rise, FDR\u2019s two mandates have brought America to just such a situation. We are meant to accept that despite his success, the public would heartily reject his candidacy in favour of Lindberg\u2019s simply because they idolize the handsome blond aviator and because they fear war. Even then, I might have been prepared to accept this turn of events if we had been shown how the ordinary American\u2019s thinking changes over the course of Lindberg\u2019s presidency. But we never see this. We are never shown anyone else\u2019s viewpoint other than the narrow view of Roth\u2019s nine-year old protagonist. This choice of perspective is severely limiting not only because of the nine-year old child\u2019s limited understanding of events but because it is a viewpoint confined to that of a working class family living in a wholly Jewish community. Except for a handful of token gentiles who make the occasional walk-on appearance, we are given no other view on events. As a result, we are given no access to the kind of mind set that might be won over by Lindberg\u2019s fascist anti-Semitism or that might gradually come to embrace it. We are instead presented with a fait accompli which seems to assume the complicit acceptance of a reader already convinced that a relatively prosperous and peaceful democratic America is inherently capable of overthrowing its founding principles in the space of less than two years for no reason other than a desire to avoid war with Hitler. No extended period of deprivation and suffering necessitates the search for a convenient scapegoat; no chaos and breakdown of government legitimacy is needed for people to turn to the illusory certainty afforded by totalitarianism; no seething long-standing community resentment barely held in check by a civil government is needed for hatreds to explode. No, apparently, the hatred of Jews is strong in the gentile. They fear and despise Jews so much that the vast majority would eagerly blind themselves to the loss of their own freedoms to see the hated kike die. Seriously, Roth? I can see how a fringe minority of the population might be like this. But it generally takes much deeper periods of humiliation and suffering and far harsher shocks to mobilise the majority of a population to such hate. Without showing us this process at work, all we have really is an anti-gentile novel. Ironic, really, given the novel\u2019s ostensible anti-intolerance message. ...more \u201cAnything can happen to anyone, but it usually doesn't. Except when it does.\u201d\u2014Philip Roth, The Plot Against America The Plot Against America is a must read for our times. A tour de force (and also sort of tour de [dark] farce) that is at turns funny and scary and moving, it is an alternate history novel exploring \u201cwhat if\u201d isolationist and anti-Semitic aviation hero Charles Lindberg had actually defeated FDR in 1940, running on an anti-war platform, and had made a pact with Hitler, whose tyranny \u201cAnything can happen to anyone, but it usually doesn't. Except when it does.\u201d\u2014Philip Roth, The Plot Against America The Plot Against America is a must read for our times. A tour de force (and also sort of tour de [dark] farce) that is at turns funny and scary and moving, it is an alternate history novel exploring \u201cwhat if\u201d isolationist and anti-Semitic aviation hero Charles Lindberg had actually defeated FDR in 1940, running on an anti-war platform, and had made a pact with Hitler, whose tyranny\u2014unimpeded by the USA as a key Allie\u2014then continued unabated. Specifically, Roth wonders what effects Lindberg\u2019s presidency might have had on his actual decidedly Jewish family. Young Philip, 7, is inspired by his father\u2019s opposition to both Hitler and Lindberg, as is his cousin Alvy, who actually enlists with The Canadian Army (because Lindberg fulfills his promise of America First\u2014that isolationism\u2014and doesn\u2019t let the US fight Germany) and loses his leg in France, thereby getting Philip\u2019s rich uncles to blame Philip\u2019s father for that, for even wanting to fight Hitler\u2019s fascism in Europe. Alvy, having fought with Canada, is increasingly harassed as anti-American, for choosing to fight Hitler, who becomes thanks to Lindberg a kind of ally of the US! One way Lindberg gets elected is that a prominent New Jersey rabbi argues for Lindberg and against the war. Lindbergh's first domestic initiative is the creation of the Office of American Absorption to \"encourage America's religious and national minorities to become further incorporated into the larger society.\" The focus here is on the better assimilation of Jews in particular. The OAA also later develops the Homestead Act, which helps relocate Jews and other minorities. Sound familiar, Native Americans? Or does it sound a little like deportation or travel bans, in principle? Anyway, Phil\u2019s brother Sandy goes to a farm in Kentucky for the summer, and loves it, becoming for a time aligned with Lindberg and a spokesperson for the program. \u201cTo have enslaved America with this hocuspocus! To have captured the mind of the world's greatest nation without uttering a single word of truth! Oh, the pleasure we must be affording the most malevolent man on earth!\u201d\u2014Philip\u2019s Dad Sound ridiculous and possibly paranoid? Well, that\u2019s what I thought. But it is one storytelling feat to make the basis for the story outlandish, even screwy, and yet on some level make it darkly reasonable and frightening. Could an isolationist fascist become President of the US of A?! Nah, it can\u2019t happen here. But as Philip\u2019s father says, \u201cWhat do you mean it can\u2019t happen here? It is happening here!\u201d Roth works in actual forties historical characters throughout. For instance, Walter Winchell, the liberal journalist, remains just as anti-fascist as he was in real life in this version of American forties reality. With the help of Eleanor Roosevelt, Winchell actually becomes the Democratic candidate for President. But when Winchell takes his act on the road to (anti-Semitic) Father Coughlin\u2019s Detroit, America\u2019s Kristallnacht begins, and all hell breaks loose, especially for Jews in America. Fascism reigns, though that\u2019s not the end of the story. Maybe ultimately this novel is a reminder or rejoinder to Jewish (and other pacifists) who might have once opposed any war against fascism or dictatorships elsewhere. Roth is saying that sometimes war is justified, and the war against Hitler was for him surely justified. And Roth doesn\u2019t really care about Lindberg. What he cares about is an electorate he sees as awed by media darlings, and moved by simple slogans like America First (both Lindberg\u2019s and Trump\u2019s slogan), Big Business Types who promise us riches and scare us about threats to security and demonize and scapegoat particular minority groups in the process. But the main focus of this tale is really Roth\u2019s Dad, raging against the rise of fascism in America. As Philip says, \u201cThere were two types of strong men: those like Uncle Monty and Abe Steinheim, remorseless about their making money, and those like my father, ruthlessly obedient to their idea of fair play.\u201d Roth\u2019s mother is also just as admirrable in steadfastly clinging to goodness and caring regardless of what craziness happens. This book has political targets, but it is also a love letter to his good, liberal, working-class parents. \u201cHow can this be happening in America?\u201d\u2014Philip\u2019s mother Did Roth in 2005 have in mind a cautionary tale for America\u2019s future? He says no. But here is Roth emailing with The New Yorker that the Lindberg nightmare fantasy he wrote about is nothing compared to what Trump could be for this country. http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/201... \u201cHow can people like these be in charge of our country? If I didn\u2019t see it with my own eyes, I\u2019d think I was having a hallucination.\u201d \u2013Philip\u2019s mother I also just read The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui, which posits a ridiculous clownish, crude and rude Hitler-like gangster rising to power in Chicago, ready to take over the country. It can\u2019t really happen here, can it?! I\u2019m just paranoid right? ...more I used to argue (in the 1960s) with Grandma Flo, who fiercely insisted that what has repeatedly happened in this world will certainly happen again; in this regard, America is not exceptional. According to Grandma, America -- despite its checks-and-balances system, despite its Bill of Rights -- would become a nation in which people will consume lies like cookies and embrace the \"stuff of our nightmares.\" In my youth, Grandma Flo's predictions seemed preposterous. But with Donald Trump's ascent, a I used to argue (in the 1960s) with Grandma Flo, who fiercely insisted that what has repeatedly happened in this world will certainly happen again; in this regard, America is not exceptional. According to Grandma, America -- despite its checks-and-balances system, despite its Bill of Rights -- would become a nation in which people will consume lies like cookies and embrace the \"stuff of our nightmares.\" In my youth, Grandma Flo's predictions seemed preposterous. But with Donald Trump's ascent, an active imagination is no longer necessary to see that, yes, even in America, democratic institutions may be extinguished by folks who fear and hate whoever is \"not one of us\" and whoever is believed to have taken what was theirs. Twelve years before THE Donald became the Republican Party's nominee for President of the US, Philip Roth, in The Plot Against America , imagined Charles Lindbergh in the White House -- the Lindbergh (aviator-hero) who wrote in a 1939 journal entry that we must \"guard ourselves against attack by foreign armies and dilution by foreign races. . . and the infiltration of inferior blood\"(370). Reading Roth's chilling and unsettling and touching and brilliant work, especially in 2016, heightens one's awareness of the truth that what \"can't happen here\" can actually happen here. Like the boy narrator-protagonist (named Philip Roth) of The Plot Against America , millions of people now \"under[stand]. . . how the shameless vanity of utter fools can so strongly determine the fate of others\"(213). I haven't given up all hope that the sanity card will trump the jokers and wild cards in the deck, but I do wish that I could tell my grandma that she was wise and I was naive. ...more (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.) So after a month of election obsession here in Chicago, I find my schedule of book reviews in complete chaos: nearly 20 titles read now, all of them awaiting essays, and with me still continuing to read new books on a daily basis. I thought I'd start this week, then, with a whole series of recently r (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.) So after a month of election obsession here in Chicago, I find my schedule of book reviews in complete chaos: nearly 20 titles read now, all of them awaiting essays, and with me still continuing to read new books on a daily basis. I thought I'd start this week, then, with a whole series of recently read books that I don't have that much to say about, either because of being older titles or not very good or whatnot; and I thought I'd start this list as well with the best book out of all of them, American literary treasure Philip Roth's 2004 masterpiece The Plot Against America , which believe it or not is actually the very first book by Roth I've ever read. And man, what a doozy to start out with, because it so perfectly captures the entire zeitgeist of the Bush years, despite the plot being a science-fictiony \"alternative history\" one; because, see, for those who don't know, what this book posits is a world where Nazi sympathizer Charles Lindbergh becomes President of the US in 1940 instead of Franklin Roosevelt, and instead of going to war actually works out a non-aggression pact with the Axis powers. And then the story itself is told as a personal memoir, with the main character being Roth himself as a small Jewish child in New Jersey \"living\" through the events. It's a brilliant concept, executed even more successfully precisely because of no melodramatic things taking place; under Roth's genius speculative mind, no Jews are actually rounded up into concentration camps under a Lindbergh administration, but merely a national air of hostility created towards them, a government-approved disdain for Jews that clearly affects the emotional well-being of Roth's tight-knit Jewish community in an industrialized mid-century New Jersey. And that's why this is such a magnificent statement about the Bush administration, a sneaky one that you might not even realize at first -- because Roth's whole point by using this fantastical premise is to show that you don't need out-and-out pogroms in order to create a discriminatory society, that you don't need goose-stepping stormtroopers in the streets in order to have a fascist-friendly nation. It's a fascinating book, one with a delightfully surprising ending, a novel that really floored me when I read it a few weeks ago; in fact, about the only complaint I have is that large sections of it are overwritten, and that Roth has a habit of delving into the minutiae of certain scenes in simply too much detail. Other than that, though, it comes highly recommended, and I believe is destined in the future (along with such titles as Cormac McCarthy's The Road and Max Brooks' World War Z ) to be one of the essential titles of the early 2000s, one of the books that will help explain to future generations just what it was like to live under the Bush regime. Needless to say, I am now eagerly looking forward to tackling more of this remarkable writer's ouevre. ...more Coming soon...must first nurse hangover...having trouble with simple sentences at the moment... Okay, here goes. This is going to be worded poorly because I killed a lot of braincells last night, but I need to get this out of my system. I enjoyed this novel. I really, really did. To be more specific, I enjoyed it in the way you enjoy a movie-version of a book you've already read, or a cutesy little romance like The Princess Bride (no disrespect). I mean, you just KNOW where it's going. Describing Coming soon...must first nurse hangover...having trouble with simple sentences at the moment... Okay, here goes. This is going to be worded poorly because I killed a lot of braincells last night, but I need to get this out of my system. I enjoyed this novel. I really, really did. To be more specific, I enjoyed it in the way you enjoy a movie-version of a book you've already read, or a cutesy little romance like The Princess Bride (no disrespect). I mean, you just KNOW where it's going. Describing The Plot Against America sort of sounds like the beginning of a bad joke...\"what do you get when you take FDR, and swap him out with Charles Lindbergh...I think it would go a little something like this...(insert 400-page punchline).\" Since the scenario that he lays out is slightly feasible and extremely specific (Nazi-friendly US government...how many possibilities are there, really?), the results are about what you would expect. Further, Roth's attempt at making us question whether the family is just being paranoid or not is sort of a fail. Seriously, we know that this is a nightmarish scenario, and if the Jewish folk of Newark think that they are getting fucked by their government, then I, the humble reader, am going to safely assume that they ARE getting fucked by their government. All the same, this novel is a nice little history lesson and a somber warning against extreme isolationism, among other things. It made me question my thoughts on war (anti) and get really confused by and about them (What about concentration camps? Tibet? Female infibulation and vaginal slicing? Civil liberties being brazenly shat upon? Do we war then? When do we war, AAARRGH??!??!?). And I like it when a book can piss me off like that. Roth is also great at building flawed characters who are convincing even as they are changing over time. For example, you get a little uncomfortable when the pompous teen starts running his mouth about politics to his parents at the dinner table, because you remember being the pompous teen running your mouth about politics at the dinner table. Then there's the love-crazy phase, the part where you think your parents know everything, the part where you think your parents know nothing, etc. It's all here, and it's believable. For that (and many other things about this novel), I applaud you, Mr Roth. Sorry to nitpick. I am torn between a 3 and 4 star rating. I almost want to give it a 4 just to bump up my average rating so I don't look like such a damn HATER. Buuuuuuut, I'm going with the 3 anyway. I recommend it, it's good, you will read it quickly, but don't expect your life to change dramatically. 3 stars, BOOM. ...more Ah Mr Roth, how you entertained and confounded me with this book. This book also served as a sort of stupidity graph for me, highlighting where my knowledge of early 20th century American History and Politics has a gaping hole. Is it a hole in a sock sized hole? An oops, my-car-was-just- swallowed-up-by-this-big-hole sized hole? Or a Guatemala City sink hole sized hole? Well, the hole in my knowledge is probably about the size of the car swallowing hole which is still quite sizeable. I feel asha Ah Mr Roth, how you entertained and confounded me with this book. This book also served as a sort of stupidity graph for me, highlighting where my knowledge of early 20th century American History and Politics has a gaping hole. Is it a hole in a sock sized hole? An oops, my-car-was-just- swallowed-up-by-this-big-hole sized hole? Or a Guatemala City sink hole sized hole? Well, the hole in my knowledge is probably about the size of the car swallowing hole which is still quite sizeable. I feel ashamed (ashamed face). To counter that shame there is also the caveat that I am easily confused. Being brought up in the UK and at the mercy of the comprehensive school education system, we had the facts of World War I and World War II hammered into us from the ages of 13 to 16 but generally only focusing on the European perceptions and involvement, as you might expect. America did feature in the lessons and lectures - the depression, seers roebuck, the wall street crash, Warren Harding, Coolidge, Hoover and Roosevelt all got a look-in but probably not in the detailed way that they should have. Between the ages of 16 and 18 it was optional if you wished the hammering of history to continue. I can probably name every treaty and anschluss and every palace that every treaty was signed in. Obviously very helpful factoids which I have used many times over in my adult life.... Therefore, because of the hazy mist that surrounds my knowledge of this period in America I found myself checking on the internet to figure out where fact met fiction in this brilliant book. The Plot Against America depicts growing feelings of anti-Semitism in the USA which began to develop in tandem with the increase in Nazi Power in Europe. Similar anti Semitic feelings and issues are dealt with in a different way in The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay by Michael Chabon. Roth presents us with an America where Franklin Delano Roosevelt has been beaten in the electoral race by Charles Lindbergh, thereby creating a \"what if this happened and where would we be now\" look at an alternative history. Note: This book will not confuse you at all if you know your actual history/ are American/ live in America/ Are over the age of 65! I have enjoyed all the Philip Roth books I've read (introduced to him through the joys of the 1001 books to read before you die list)and this one was no exception. To the people who say that American Pastoral is his best book (with all that glove making - really?), I have to disagree! ...more Published in 2004, this novel is an invented history of America: Nazi-sympathizer and renowned pilot Charles Lindbergh is elected President of the United States. He espouses isolationism, but has made agreements with Hitler\u2019s supporters to stay out of the war and simultaneously relocate and assimilate Jews in America through something called the Office of American Absorption. The program is so well-orchestrated that it is espoused as a wonderful thing by many Jews, but in the \u201cJewish ghetto\u201d of Published in 2004, this novel is an invented history of America: Nazi-sympathizer and renowned pilot Charles Lindbergh is elected President of the United States. He espouses isolationism, but has made agreements with Hitler\u2019s supporters to stay out of the war and simultaneously relocate and assimilate Jews in America through something called the Office of American Absorption. The program is so well-orchestrated that it is espoused as a wonderful thing by many Jews, but in the \u201cJewish ghetto\u201d of Newark there are some holdouts. Roth speaks in the first person, using his own family\u2019s real names, in this alternate history, and it is chilling. What\u2019s chilling is how easily lies become truth because enough people derive importance by having their social status raised by coming onboard with those in power. And when famous journalist Walter Winchell, leader among the holdouts, gets dumped from his radio program, in a last ditch effort to speak truth, he writes what turns out to become a much-reviled final newspaper column: \u201cThe Lindbergh fascists . . . have openly begun their Nazi assault to freedom of expression. Today Winchell\u2019s the enemy to be silenced . . . Winchell \u2018the warmonger,\u2019 \u2018the liar,\u2019 \u2018the alarmist,\u2019 \u2018the Commie,\u2019 \u2018the kike.\u2019 Today yours truly, tomorrow every newscaster and reporter who dares to tell the truth about the fascist plot to destroy American democracy. Honorary Aryans like the rabid rabbi Lyin\u2019 Lionel B. and the snooty Park Avenue proprietors of the gutless New York Times aren\u2019t the first ultracivilized Jewish Quislings to grovel before an anti-Semitic master because they\u2019re just too, too refined to fight like Winchell . . . and they won\u2019t be the last. The jerks at Jergens [the radio sponsor that fired Winchell] aren\u2019t the first corporate cowards to play ball with the dictatorial lying machine that is now ruining this country . . . and they won\u2019t be the last. (242) Things deteriorate, Americans are fighting each other, and New York City\u2019s Mayor La Guardia decries the gossip and innuendo that have become truth: \u201cTo have enslaved America with this hocus-pocus! To have captured the mind of the world\u2019s greatest nation without uttering a single word of truth! Oh, the pleasure we must be affording the most malevolent man on earth!\u201d (316) A timely story. An exhausting, not-particularly-fun-to-read book. ...more A rather scary scenario wherein Charles Lindbergh, an ultra conservative anti-Semitic, becomes President instead of FDR. A Jewish family and their fears about their future under this guy are focused on. This novel, written by Pulitzer Prize winning author Philip Roth, is an alt-history story of a young boy growing up in Newark, NJ when the virulently anti-Semitic Charles Lindbergh is elected president in place of Roosevelt in 1940. It's an exceptional story of what it means to be a Jew living in times that are dangerous to you and your family, as well as what it means to be a reviled minority in times when such behavior is actively endorsed by the people in power. Roth uses himself as a characte This novel, written by Pulitzer Prize winning author Philip Roth, is an alt-history story of a young boy growing up in Newark, NJ when the virulently anti-Semitic Charles Lindbergh is elected president in place of Roosevelt in 1940. It's an exceptional story of what it means to be a Jew living in times that are dangerous to you and your family, as well as what it means to be a reviled minority in times when such behavior is actively endorsed by the people in power. Roth uses himself as a character in this book, and the age of the character matches up to the age he would have been when the story was being told. It's an interesting way to do it and it made the character's experiences and perceptions seem much more real to me, especially since it was told in first person. Phil is 8 years old at the start of the book and he lives in a flat with his mom, dad, his cousin Alvin, and his brother Sandy. Their reactions to Lindbergh being elected and becoming president are both fascinating and diverse. His dad reacts with anger and indignation, railing at anyone who treats them poorly, defiantly insisting that this is not America, and refusing to back down even so much as an inch. His mom would prefer it if he didn't advertise that they were Jewish. She doesn't want to advertise it to anyone and, in fact, she wants to do her best to get by without drawing attention. Alvin and Sandy round it out by Alvin running off to Canada to join the war efforts and Sandy embracing the fascism that is sweeping the nation. We see all of this through young Philip's eyes as he tries to understand and occasionally tries to get away from everything ending in humorous results. Throughout the story Roth gives us plenty of warmth and humor mixed with a family that is showing serious signs of strain. You can feel tears, stress, and heartache, but it's not the kind of novel that emotionally destroys you. There's this core to the novel that's about seeing all of this destruction and thinking that the problem is that he's Jewish, not that people can be full of hate and anger. And what do you do when what people hate is a part of yourself that you simply can't change. There's an emotionally difficult moment (for me, at least) when he looks at his mom and realizes that she looks Jewish; that she looks like all of the stereotypes from skin to hair to a big nose. I hate that he goes from being a kid trying to make sense of things to a kid who's applying racial stereotypes that he's heard to his family. He's even horrified to realize that since he looks like his mother this means that he also looks Jewish. I highly recommend this book. It's an important work that insightful and even somewhat prescient. ...more \u039f Philip Roth \u03b3\u03c1\u03ac\u03c6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c0\u03bb\u03b7\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac, \u03c4\u03bf '\u03c7\u03c9 \u03c0\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03be\u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03bb\u03ad\u03c9!!! \u03a4\u03bf \u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03bf \u03b5\u03bd\u03c4\u03c5\u03c0\u03c9\u03c3\u03b9\u03b1\u03ba\u03cc\u03c2 \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03b9\u03bf \u03b5\u03bd\u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae\u03c2 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1\u03c2, \u03c4\u03bf \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03bf \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c7\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b5\u03c0\u03af\u03ba\u03b1\u03b9\u03c1\u03bf. \u03a3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u0397\u03a0\u0391 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 1940, \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03af \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03a6. \u03a1\u03bf\u03cd\u03b6\u03b2\u03b5\u03bb\u03c4 \u03b5\u03ba\u03bb\u03ad\u03b3\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03b5\u03b4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03bf \u039b\u03af\u03bd\u03c4\u03bc\u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b3\u03ba, \u03bf \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c5\u03b3\u03c7\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c6\u03b9\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03a7\u03b9\u03c4\u03bb\u03b5\u03c1. \u039f \u03b1\u03c6\u03b7\u03b3\u03b7\u03c4\u03ae\u03c2, \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf Roth \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c0\u03b1\u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03b7\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03af\u03b1, \u03bf \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03b5\u03af \u03bc\u03bd\u03ae\u03bc\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03b9 \u03c3\u03ae\u03bc\u03b1\u03b9\u03bd\u03b5 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5\u03b2\u03c1\u03b1\u03ca\u03ba\u03ae \u03bf\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03b3\u03ad\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03cc\u03bb\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03b2\u03c1\u03b1\u03ca\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03ba\u03bf\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b7 \u03b5\u03ba\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03ae \u03b5\u03bd\u03cc\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03b7\u03bc\u03af\u03c4\u03b7 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03ad\u03b4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5. \u039c\u03ad\u03c3\u03b1 \u039f Philip Roth \u03b3\u03c1\u03ac\u03c6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c0\u03bb\u03b7\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac, \u03c4\u03bf '\u03c7\u03c9 \u03c0\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03be\u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03bb\u03ad\u03c9!!! \u03a4\u03bf \u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03bf \u03b5\u03bd\u03c4\u03c5\u03c0\u03c9\u03c3\u03b9\u03b1\u03ba\u03cc\u03c2 \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03b9\u03bf \u03b5\u03bd\u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae\u03c2 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1\u03c2, \u03c4\u03bf \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03bf \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c7\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b5\u03c0\u03af\u03ba\u03b1\u03b9\u03c1\u03bf. \u03a3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u0397\u03a0\u0391 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 1940, \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03af \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03a6. \u03a1\u03bf\u03cd\u03b6\u03b2\u03b5\u03bb\u03c4 \u03b5\u03ba\u03bb\u03ad\u03b3\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03b5\u03b4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03bf \u039b\u03af\u03bd\u03c4\u03bc\u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b3\u03ba, \u03bf \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c5\u03b3\u03c7\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c6\u03b9\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03a7\u03b9\u03c4\u03bb\u03b5\u03c1. \u039f \u03b1\u03c6\u03b7\u03b3\u03b7\u03c4\u03ae\u03c2, \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf Roth \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c0\u03b1\u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03b7\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03af\u03b1, \u03bf \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03b5\u03af \u03bc\u03bd\u03ae\u03bc\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03b9 \u03c3\u03ae\u03bc\u03b1\u03b9\u03bd\u03b5 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5\u03b2\u03c1\u03b1\u03ca\u03ba\u03ae \u03bf\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03b3\u03ad\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03cc\u03bb\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03b2\u03c1\u03b1\u03ca\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03ba\u03bf\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b7 \u03b5\u03ba\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03ae \u03b5\u03bd\u03cc\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03b7\u03bc\u03af\u03c4\u03b7 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03ad\u03b4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5. \u039c\u03ad\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5\u03be\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c1\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b8\u03b7\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2, \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03af\u03b1\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5\u03bb\u03ce\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03bf\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03b3\u03ad\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03bd\u03bf\u03cd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03b2\u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2, \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c5\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03b9\u03b8\u03ad\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03bf\u03b9\u03bd\u03c9\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b3\u03b5\u03b3\u03bf\u03bd\u03cc\u03c4\u03b1, \u03bf Roth \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b7\u03bd \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c6\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c4\u03c9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03b9\u03bf. \u03a5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03b7 \u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ae, \u03c5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03b7 \u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03ae, \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c0\u03bb\u03b7\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc\u03b4\u03bf\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b5\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac. \u0394\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf! \u039a\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b5\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd Roth! ...more I've decided that Philip Roth will be my Christmas present to myself each year. I've noticed that this wasn't the favorite of some Roth fans. I had no expectations from this book other than, like the blurbs suggested, to be horrified and disturbed by the alternate history and how plausible it was during WWII for Charles Lindbergh to become President of the U.S. In this book, Roth shows what would've likely happened if a known Nazi sympathizer (Lindbergh) had become President during the reign of I've decided that Philip Roth will be my Christmas present to myself each year. I've noticed that this wasn't the favorite of some Roth fans. I had no expectations from this book other than, like the blurbs suggested, to be horrified and disturbed by the alternate history and how plausible it was during WWII for Charles Lindbergh to become President of the U.S. In this book, Roth shows what would've likely happened if a known Nazi sympathizer (Lindbergh) had become President during the reign of Hitler. It's shocking, horrific, scary, but also timely, prophetic, and a sort of ticker-tape of the now. Here's the beauty of this book. One could replace the name of Lindbergh with any number of our past great leaders, and change the oppressed from Jews to any number of other people groups, and instead of alternative history, you have actual history. Some of the fiction in this book has actually happened, and some of it, you could argue is happening even now. I don't know why, but since I was a young child, I've always hated racial inequality and prejudice of any kind. I grew up in a small town in an area of the country known for its bigotry. So, since I thought thought this way and hated this kind of thinking, was I an outcast? Absolutely. I payed dearly for it. But, did I truly know what it was like to be hated because of my race or perceived differences? Absolutely not, as I would later learn. What struck me while reading this book was that I need to not just agree and proclaim, \"Yeah, this book could be about now\", and then go about my business. No. That's not enough. I need to take action as well, and I think that's what Roth is trying to say as well. The Jews were oppressed in this book, but there were also people that stood up for the Jews and people in the majority that fought for the minority. Being a white male, I was absolutely struck with the sense that I need to do more. To put my money where my mouth is. I've never really known what it's like to go through oppression, racism, or hate to this degree. Tables always turn, though, so it's possible for this to change in my lifetime. And even if it did, admittedly, any oppression I might suffer would never make up for history. Not in my lifetime. I love the \"By the Book\" series in The New York Times ( http://www.nytimes.com/column/by-the-... ). They interview famous writers about their favorite books. One question they often ask is, \"If you could pick one book for the President to read, what would it be?\" I can't think of a better one to recommend than Philip Roth's The Plot Against America. In fact, I can't think of a book I'd recommend more to anyone right now. ...more Roth is a masterful writer. I was immediately drawn into this alternative history. Written as a memoir recalling his childhood in a Jewish neighborhood in Newark, Roth creates an America where anti-Semitism is unleashed by the rhetoric of President Lindbergh who has aligned the U.S. with Hitler. If I wanted a scary October read, this book was it. Could America ever be seduced by a charismatic arrogant celebrity spouting hate-filled language? Would Americans ever elect an inexperienced anti-estab Roth is a masterful writer. I was immediately drawn into this alternative history. Written as a memoir recalling his childhood in a Jewish neighborhood in Newark, Roth creates an America where anti-Semitism is unleashed by the rhetoric of President Lindbergh who has aligned the U.S. with Hitler. If I wanted a scary October read, this book was it. Could America ever be seduced by a charismatic arrogant celebrity spouting hate-filled language? Would Americans ever elect an inexperienced anti-establishment figure, with leanings toward a foreign dictator as our president? And, if we did, what violence and hatred are we capable of unleashing? My only disappointment with this novel was its abrupt and inconclusive ending. ...more Once again, Philip Roth has published a novel that you must read - now. It's not that an appreciation of his book depends on the political climate; our appreciation of the political climate depends on his book. During a bitterly contested election in a time of war against an amorphous enemy, \"The Plot Against America\" inspires exactly the kind of discussion we need. With a seamless blend of autobiography, history, and speculation, Roth imagines that Charles Lindbergh ran against Franklin Roosevel Once again, Philip Roth has published a novel that you must read - now. It's not that an appreciation of his book depends on the political climate; our appreciation of the political climate depends on his book. During a bitterly contested election in a time of war against an amorphous enemy, \"The Plot Against America\" inspires exactly the kind of discussion we need. With a seamless blend of autobiography, history, and speculation, Roth imagines that Charles Lindbergh ran against Franklin Roosevelt in the presidential election of 1940. Drawing on Lindbergh's writings and speeches at the time, Roth creates a campaign for the aviation hero centered on his determination to keep America out of Europe's war. While Roosevelt enunciates complex policies in his famous upper-class cadence, Lindbergh buzzes around the country in The Spirit of St. Louis declaring, \"Your choice is simple. It's between Lindbergh and war.\" To preserve the nation, we must resist the propaganda of \"the Jewish race,\" Lindbergh warns, \"and their large ownership and influence in our motion pictures, our press, our radio, and our government.\" After winning by a landslide, he immediately negotiates \"understandings\" with the Axis, consigning Europe to Germany in exchange for a promise to leave America alone. Political opponents rail against the president for \"yielding to his Nazi friends,\" but everybody knows those nay-sayers are just warmongering Jews. Lindbergh's first domestic initiative is the creation of the Office of American Absorption to \"encourage America's religious and national minorities to become further incorporated into the larger society.\" In practice, this involves sending urban Jewish children to spend the summer on farms in the South - \"a Jewish farm hand in the Gentile heartland.\" Eventually, the program expands to remove whole Jewish families from their city \"ghettos\" and send them to exciting, new lives in the Midwest. If their culture is dissolved in the process, well, that's OK too. Yes, Lindbergh comes off very bad in these pages. He spouts anti-Semitic canards that sound far more shocking now than in 1938, when he accepted the Nazis' Service Cross of the German Eagle \"by order of the Fuhrer.\" But clearly Roth's real target isn't an anti-Semitic aviation hero who died 30 years ago. It's an electorate he sees as dazzled by attractive faces, moved by simple slogans, and cowed by ominous warnings about threats to our security. The result is a cautionary story in the tradition of \"The Handmaid's Tale,\" a stunning work of political extrapolation about a triumvirate of hate, ignorance, and paranoia that shreds decency and overruns liberty. Roth provides brilliant analysis of political rhetoric: the way demagogues manipulate public opinion and the way responsible journalists inadvertently prop up tyrants in their devotion to objectivity and balance. But what really gives the novel life is its narrator: a little boy named Phil Roth. He lives in Newark with his older brother, who's completely enamored with Charles Lindbergh; his righteous father, who's convinced the new president is an American Hitler; and his long- suffering mother, who struggles to hold her family together as the nation is ripped apart. In a voice that blends the tones of the author's nostalgia with the boy's innocence, Phil describes the national crisis through its effect on his own family. It's a narrative structure fraught with risks, particularly the danger of making this 7-year-old boy look cloying or inappropriately sophisticated, but Roth keeps his bifocal vision in perfect focus. The result is a profound examination of the way children negotiate their parents' ideals and their culture's prejudices along the way to developing not just a political consciousness but a sense of safety in the world. Soon after Lindbergh wins the election, for instance, the Roth family takes a trip to Washington, D.C., to reassure themselves of the stability of American democracy. Phil's father is full of enthusiasm, repeating the guide's patter and pointing to the sights. He also can't resist broadcasting his criticism of the new president. \"That's just expressing my opinion,\" he protests when his wife begs him to be more discreet, but they're jeered at and thrown out of their hotel. Phil feels embarrassed and terrified, but he's also proud to have a father \"ruthlessly obedient to the idea of fair play.\" That conflicted response continues as young Phil struggles to keep his alliances straight in a world of baffling complexity. His brother can't say enough about Lindbergh's wonders. Their father's suspicion seems downright paranoid. When his aunt starts dating the token Jew in Lindbergh's administration, Phil can see firsthand the rich rewards of assimilation and collusion. What, after all, did his cousin gain by joining the Canadians in their fight against the Nazis, except a prosthetic leg? By the novel's climax, the conflict tearing the world apart is violently loose in his own living room. \"I was disillusioned,\" he writes, \"by a sense that my family was slipping away from me right along with my country.\" Victims of anti-Semitism will react in a special way (as will the descendants of Japanese-Americans interned by Roosevelt), but \"The Plot Against America\" is really a story about the loss of innocence, about that moment when it's no longer possible for \"mother and father to set things right and explain away enough of the unknown to make existence appear to be rational.\" This isn't the wrathful Roth of \"The Human Stain\" or \"I Married a Communist.\" This narrator is too deeply unsettled to be angry, and frankly that makes him far more unsettling to us. In a surprising final chapter, after he's neatly woven his fictional history back into the historical record we all know, Roth concludes with a small, tragic story of a neighbor whose family is crushed, almost accidentally, by the fury of racial hatred. It's a stunning, deeply disturbing episode for young Phil, and one that leaves us shaken with the narrator's \"perpetual fear.\" http://www.csmonitor.com/2004/0928/p1... ...more O jovem Philip Roth , com os seus pais - Herman e Bess - e o seu irm\u00e3o Sandy, no p\u00e1tio da sua casa em Newark, New Jersey \u201dO medo preside a estas mem\u00f3rias, um medo perp\u00e9tuo.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 11) O narrador de \u201dA Conspira\u00e7\u00e3o Contra a Am\u00e9rica/The Plot Against America\u201d (2004) \u00e9 o pr\u00f3prio Philip Roth (n. 1933) com sete anos de idade, um rapaz normal que tem a paix\u00e3o de coleccionar selos e vive com os seus pais, Herman e Bess, um agente de seguros e uma dona de casa, juntamente com o seu irm\u00e3o mais velho, Sandy, O jovem Philip Roth , com os seus pais - Herman e Bess - e o seu irm\u00e3o Sandy, no p\u00e1tio da sua casa em Newark, New Jersey \u201dO medo preside a estas mem\u00f3rias, um medo perp\u00e9tuo.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 11) O narrador de \u201dA Conspira\u00e7\u00e3o Contra a Am\u00e9rica/The Plot Against America\u201d (2004) \u00e9 o pr\u00f3prio Philip Roth (n. 1933) com sete anos de idade, um rapaz normal que tem a paix\u00e3o de coleccionar selos e vive com os seus pais, Herman e Bess, um agente de seguros e uma dona de casa, juntamente com o seu irm\u00e3o mais velho, Sandy, com doze anos de idade, um jovem com um talento prodigioso para desenhar; e que moram no bairro judeu Weequahic, em Newark, New Jersey - \u201dEm 1940 \u00e9ramos uma fam\u00edlia feliz. Os meus pais eram pessoas soci\u00e1veis e hospitaleiras (\u2026)\u201d (P\u00e1g. 12). Charles A. Lindbergh \u00e9 considerado como um her\u00f3i americano porque fez no seu monoplano Spirit of St. Louis na Primavera de 1927 o voo sem escala e a solo, de trinta e tr\u00eas horas e meia, de Long Island para Paris e que, mais tarde, ganhou a compaix\u00e3o e a simpatia dos americanos porque o seu primeiro filho, um beb\u00e9 com vinte meses, tinha sido raptado e assassinado ou morto acidentalmente, por um ex-presidi\u00e1rio alem\u00e3o, Bruno Hauptmann, que vivia no Bronx. Depois do julgamento, os Lindbergh deixaram a Am\u00e9rica e expatriaram-se para a Europa, fazendo sucessivas viagens \u00e0 Alemanha Nazi, exprimindo Lindbergh o seu elevado apre\u00e7o por Hitler \u2013 sendo inclusivamente condecorado em nome do Fuhrer , chamando ao seu l\u00edder \u201cum grande homem\u201d. \u201dDepois os Republicanos designaram Lindbergh e tudo mudou.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 15) \u2013 disputando em 1940 a presid\u00eancia com o actual Presidente, o democrata, Franklin Delano Roosevelt (FDR). Inexplicavelmente, ou talvez n\u00e3o, Charles A. Lindbergh obt\u00e9m uma vit\u00f3ria esmagadora sobre Franklin Delano Roosevelt e tudo muda para milh\u00f5es de fam\u00edlias judias norte-americanas. Para o jovem Philip Roth \u201dLindbergh foi o primeiro americano famoso vivo que aprendi a odiar (\u2026)\u201d (P\u00e1g. 18). A genialidade e a fluidez da escrita de Philip Roth reside, essencialmente, na forma como a narrativa e o enredo, independentemente, da quest\u00e3o \u201chist\u00f3rica\u201d, reflecte magistralmente o tempo em que foi escrito e o per\u00edodo temporal em que decorre, num relato que encerra o dramatismo pr\u00f3prio dos acontecimentos quotidianos descritos, sobretudo, as imagens e os sons, e as viv\u00eancias dos pequenos n\u00facleos familiares unificados nos bairros habitacionais dos sub\u00farbios de Newark, no estado de New Jersey. Mais do que a realidade biogr\u00e1fica dos intervenientes o que \u00e9 relevante \u00e9 que o escritor Philip Roth permanece como um homem fascinado pela fam\u00edlia, pela estrutura familiar, como um factor fundamental e determinante para a consist\u00eancia e a estabilidade emocional, superando os pequenos e os grandes dramas familiares, numa tem\u00e1tica mais relevante do que nunca, conjugando a ironia e o humor como forma de aceitar ou rejeitar a imposi\u00e7\u00e3o das novas regras, nem sempre percept\u00edveis na mente de um jovem de sete anos de idade. \u201dConspira\u00e7\u00e3o Contra a Am\u00e9rica\u201d \u00e9 um excelente romance hist\u00f3rico ou uma \u201chist\u00f3ria alternativa\u201d, uma obra sombria e aterrorizante, em que decorridos mais de dez anos sobre a sua publica\u00e7\u00e3o, mant\u00e9m e acentua a sua actualidade, destacando-se a fragilidade da democracia americana, a amea\u00e7a permanente \u00e0s liberdades civis e \u00e0 seguran\u00e7a interna e externa, com destaque para a injustificada viol\u00eancia inter-racial, a segrega\u00e7\u00e3o e a marginaliza\u00e7\u00e3o das minorias, a brutalidade policial; em que \u00e9 inevit\u00e1vel o paralelismo com a nomea\u00e7\u00e3o do republicano Donald Trump para disputar a elei\u00e7\u00e3o presidencial norte-americana. Como \u00e9 que um passado imaginado pode ser convertido num presente ou num futuro desastroso? Vamos ver o que acontece a 8 de Novembro de 2016. Imagem da revista/site Forward Sem d\u00favida que Philip Roth \u00e9 um dos maiores romancistas americano, vencedor do Pr\u00e9mio Pulitzer para Fic\u00e7\u00e3o em 1998 pelo genial romance \u201dPastoral Americana\u201d , eterno candidato a receber o Pr\u00e9mio Nobel da Literatura - surge em 2016 como um dos favoritos numa casa de apostas com uma rela\u00e7\u00e3o de 8/1 - ser\u00e1 que \u00e9 desta? ...more In The Plot Against America, Philip Roth lovingly re-creates the lost world of the Jewish community of mid-century Newark, the world of his own boyhood. Then he takes the main characters, modeled on himself, his friends and his family, and tortures them by forcing them to live through state-sponsored Nazism in America. Roth imagines an America in which Charles Lindberg defeats FDR in1940 by pledging to keep the US out of WWII, then immediately signs non-aggression pacts with both Germany and Jap In The Plot Against America, Philip Roth lovingly re-creates the lost world of the Jewish community of mid-century Newark, the world of his own boyhood. Then he takes the main characters, modeled on himself, his friends and his family, and tortures them by forcing them to live through state-sponsored Nazism in America. Roth imagines an America in which Charles Lindberg defeats FDR in1940 by pledging to keep the US out of WWII, then immediately signs non-aggression pacts with both Germany and Japan, and presides over a climate of creeping authoritarianism and anti-Semitism in the US. The story is told through the eyes of a seven year-old boy\u2014Philip Roth--part of a lower-middle class Jewish family in Newark. The Roths are strivers living in a tightly knit community of other lower-middle-class Jews. The novel illustrates the destructive effects of the climate of fear unleashed by Lindbergh\u2019s election by showing what happens to this particular family and the community of which they are an integral part. Plot is a kind of speculative historical fiction, but it faces some of the same problems that bedevil traditional historical fiction: how to accurately and convincingly recount the historical context without turning the novel into a research dump, and without completely breaking the narrative spell. Roth is only partially successful at this. The novel is beset with jarring juxtapositions of narrative tone, as he stops the action to set up the context, and then plunges the reader back into the narrative proper, and the rapidly unraveling world of the Roths. Roth faces the added challenge of convincingly narrating historical events that did not occur, and making them flow seamlessly out of those that did. In this he\u2019s much more successful. He wants to show the reader that, though fascism did not take root here, it might well have. History is only inevitable in retrospect. It\u2019s almost always, to some degree, radically contingent while it\u2019s happening. Unless you believe that all events are preordained, either by a higher power or by some kind of inexorable structural logic, then you have to hold open the possibility that even though things without question turned out the way they did, they might well have turned out differently. In the end, Roth returns the nation to its actual historical path, and the fascist interlude that he narrates is but a temporary swerve, but he does succeed in convincing the reader\u2014at least this reader\u2014that the history of the US at mid-century might well have taken a darker turn. Consider the following: -At the time the US had its own officially sanctioned system of apartheid. Blacks in the south were denied the right to vote and were forced to use a separate but decidedly unequal set of public services. Their second-class status was codified into law. In 1940, Americans already lived in a country where an officially sanctioned racism buttressed a social system in which a despised minority was denied equal access to employment, education, public services, and political influence. -Anti-Semitism was hardly unknown in 1940\u2019s America\u2014whether in the genteel version espoused by the WASP establishment or the cruder versions adhered to further down the social scale. America in 1940 was a country in which many if not most Americans at least entertained the idea that some social groups were either naturally inferior to white/Christian Americans or were superior in a potentially diabolical way, and were at least passively supportive of a political system that limited their political and civil rights. And these attitudes and forms of discrimination applied, to a lesser degree to be sure, but nevertheless, to Jews as well as blacks. -In the novel, Lindberg defeats Roosevelt by espousing a very simple message: I will keep the US out of war. There was plenty of isolationist sentiment in the US after World War One. Americans may or may not have been appalled by Hitler\u2019s persecution of the Jews of Europe, or worried by Germany\u2019s aggressive military expansionism, but it took Pearl Harbor to convince Americans to enter the war--an attack by Japan, not Germany. Had Japan not attacked the US, the country could have tolerated a lot more systematic murder of European Jewry before intervening. Also, remember that it wasn\u2019t until after the war that the defining fact of Word War II, in the popular imagination at any rate, became the systematic campaign to exterminate the Jews of Europe. Perhaps the best one can say is that necessary but not sufficient conditions were in place for a fascist swerve. Also, I suspect that in showing us how fascism might have come to America, Roth is also showing why it didn\u2019t. One of the things I most enjoyed about the book was that, ultimately, the reader never knows just how real the plot against America actually was. In the end, the book dissolves into rival, tabloid-style conspiracy theories. And because the narrative voice is that of a 70 year-old man remembering events that took place when he was 8 or 9, and because the question of just what motivated Lindbergh is never answered in the \u201creality\u201d of the novel, and because the things that the narrator can reveal are constrained by what he perceived then and knows to be true now, no definitive version of events can be rendered. If Roth had chosen to adopt the voice of the truly omniscient narrator he\u2019d be able to penetrate the consciousness and observe the most intimate and secret thoughts and actions of other characters\u2014everyone from Philip Roth to Charles Lindberg to Adolph Hitler--and to render some kind of definitive version of events\u2014at least within the universe of the novel. Plot feels more plausible than most historical novels precisely because it never renders a definitive version of events. It dramatizes how little, ultimately, we understand the historical forces that shape our reality. ...more Roth imagines a world where Lindbergh became President in 1940 and then proceded to collaborate with the Nazis. He says this has nothing to do with George Bush, but I found it impossible not think of parallels. Like all late Roth, very nicely written. Philip Roth published this novel in 2004, and like George Orwell\u2019s novel, 1984 , published more than half a century earlier, it seems unnervingly prescient in terms of subsequent cultural and political events. At the very least, it raises issues of trends and dangers in our society that our most recent Presidential campaign has suggested. Nicholas Kristof of the New York Times recently recommended Roth\u2019s book to his readers, precipitating my reading it. Roth\u2019s narrative postulates that Franklin De Philip Roth published this novel in 2004, and like George Orwell\u2019s novel, 1984 , published more than half a century earlier, it seems unnervingly prescient in terms of subsequent cultural and political events. At the very least, it raises issues of trends and dangers in our society that our most recent Presidential campaign has suggested. Nicholas Kristof of the New York Times recently recommended Roth\u2019s book to his readers, precipitating my reading it. Roth\u2019s narrative postulates that Franklin Delano Roosevelt lost the 1940 Presidential election to Charles Lindbergh, the latter campaigning on an isolationist platform that promised to keep America out of World War II. The novel\u2019s Lindbergh (and indeed, the real-life Lindbergh) had philosophical and personal ties to the leaders of Nazi Germany, including and most specifically for this narrative to their anti-Semitism. The immediate group of protagonists in this book is the family of, yes, young Philip Roth, growing up in a Jewish neighborhood in Newark, New Jersey. As the narrative moves forward, increasing anti-Semitic policies are instituted at all levels of government, forcing the Roth family into difficult dilemmas and anguishing choices. It is all too easy to note social and political pressures in our own time to stigmatize, marginalize, and oppress \u201cthe other,\u201d whether that other (from the perspective of the dominant in-group, such group progressively decreasing in terms of influence and proportion of the general population in our time of identity-politics) is a religious minority, a gender-alternative group, women, racial minorities, the list could go on and on. Could a scenario like that which Roth describes happen in America? Of course it could, even as inflammatory rhetoric seems to become more open and more permissible. The details of Roth\u2019s narrative are less important than the general trends and attitudes which he describes, and the perceptive reader can easily transfer the general gist to contemporary situations. Very skillfully written (if the ending seems unduly abrupt and too deus ex machina -ish, almost as if Roth ran out of ideas and had to meet a publishing date, that can be forgiven), this novel is not only entertaining but a timely and important warning for our place and time. ...more In this 2004 book by Philip Roth, he posits a world in which Charles Lindbergh defeats FDR in the 1940 American presidential election. Lindbergh follows his \"America First\" agenda and signs an agreement with Adolph Hitler to stay out of the war. AntiSemitism becomes rampant in the US. This story is seen through the eyes of 9 year old Philip Roth and his Jewish family in Weequahic, New Jersey. The story is emotionally powerful and politically resonant in view of recent events in my country. The au In this 2004 book by Philip Roth, he posits a world in which Charles Lindbergh defeats FDR in the 1940 American presidential election. Lindbergh follows his \"America First\" agenda and signs an agreement with Adolph Hitler to stay out of the war. AntiSemitism becomes rampant in the US. This story is seen through the eyes of 9 year old Philip Roth and his Jewish family in Weequahic, New Jersey. The story is emotionally powerful and politically resonant in view of recent events in my country. The audiobook is narrated by Ron Silver, who does an excellent job in crafting the voice of young Philip as he tries to understand the world around him. He masters both the humor and the poignancy of Philip's experiences. I recommend this book to anyone who thinks fascism could never come to the United States of America. As the characters in the book spout their prejudices and justify extreme actions, it's easy to visualize the hatred and fear of \"the other\" that were so pronounced during the recent American election. It both can happen here, and indeed, has already started. A powerful and memorable reading experience. ...more Reality in the Making Is there a more obsessively repeated question than \u201cwhat if\u201d? We ask it when we regret past actions, we ask it when we are frustrated by unexpected results, we ask it when we dream of changes. It is true, we rarely ask it to wonder whether things could have turned worse. Except for authors, of course, with their habit of diving straight into nightmares. Philip Roth\u2019s The Plot Against America is just this kind of a \u201cwhat if\u201d turned bad. Written in the style of non fiction n Reality in the Making Is there a more obsessively repeated question than \u201cwhat if\u201d? We ask it when we regret past actions, we ask it when we are frustrated by unexpected results, we ask it when we dream of changes. It is true, we rarely ask it to wonder whether things could have turned worse. Except for authors, of course, with their habit of diving straight into nightmares. Philip Roth\u2019s The Plot Against America is just this kind of a \u201cwhat if\u201d turned bad. Written in the style of non fiction novels, it looks so much like a historical memoir that you frequently have to remember that the events you are reading about never truly happened in those troubled times of the World War Two. A disquieting feeling of a disaster in the waiting, maybe because even though so far away, America did not entirely escape either the Nazi propaganda nor the blindness in front of the evil and so, under slightly changed circumstances it could have easily followed another way. Hence the eerie \u201calmost-true\u201d impression that this powerful novel leaves the reader with, an impression masterfully amplified by the perfect blend of real and fictive events, personalities, family members, that creates a parallel reality so overwhelmingly real (so to speak) that it is quite difficult to think of it as fiction, since almost all the events are historically verifiable, and almost all characters, either from public or family life could have a double in reality. Moreover, as I already said, the events are presented in the form of a memoir (a genre supposed to increase the authenticity feeling in readers\u2019 perception) \u2013 that is, the memories of a 9-year old Philip Roth, but reconstructed by an older narrative voice, none other than his own mature self that subtly corrects and completes his recollections, while trying not only to recreate the dire times through the eyes of a little boy, but also to recapture the innocence of the childhood. The result? An almost historical novel (I think the word \u201calmost\u201d has got the starring role to describe it), a poignant story, told in a tranquil, equal tone that challenges the reader to deny it, either on the historical or the personal point of view. The historical evocation goes back to the troubled forties to call into question not only the famous Jewish question but also the standing power of democracy as a guarantee of the human rights. I thought for a little while that The Plot Against America is a daring mixture between a non-fiction novel and a dystopia, but I think Keith Gressen ( His Jewish Problem ) coined it better as a \u201ccounterfactual Holocaust novel\u201d or better a \u201dHolocaust anti-novel\u201d, for it extends that Nazi fascination to \u201cthe land of the free\u201d. And how immune is America to tyranny and dictatorship? How equipped is it to resist the seduction of a Stalin or a Hitler? These are the questions Philip Roth\u2019s novel mercilessly asks, and how could the answer be a definite no when everybody thought, at least once, while reading his book, that although the story did not happen to Jews, it happened often enough to blacks. So who is to say this never happened? Therefore a subtler question suddenly arises: how are we supposed to interpret History \u2013 what is History really about? And as Lindbergh's election couldn't have made clearer to me, the unfolding of the unforeseen was everything. Turned wrong way round, the relentless unforeseen was what we schoolchildren studied as \"History,\" harmless history, where everything unexpected in its own time is chronicled on the page as inevitable. The terror of the unforeseen is what the science of history hides, turning a disaster into an epic. As for the personal touch, the microcosm as a blueprint of the macrocosm, it is known that the historical novels usually turn a real event into a more or less verifiable story, giving life to a name, making-up details, decanting the events through a personal filter. Here, the filter is a sensible boy who innocently swings between boyhood and adulthood, like another Anne Frank who tries to make sense of family and world, sometimes with an unexpected touch of humor in an otherwise gloom enough narrative: War with Canada was far less of an enigma to me than what Aunt Evelyn was going to use for a toilet during the night, However, usually his voice is reserved and distant, hiding both the anxiety of the boy and the anger of the adult under an almost academic tone that approaches the narrative to a philosophical essay with a disturbing premise: Anything can happen to anyone, but it usually doesn't. Except when it does. It didn\u2019t happen. Yet. But will it? Or rather when? ...more Philip Roth is one of \"the\" guys in American literature - Harold Bloom puts him together with Cormac McCarthy, Don DeLillo and Thomas Pynchon as the four American novelists he thinks are worth praise. Having read at least one work from each of these authors the hour came to try Roth, too; this one was available so I picked it up and read it. Well, it turns out that The Plot Against America ain't all that it promises to be. iIn the novel it's 1940, and Roosevelt lost the election to Lindbergh, who Philip Roth is one of \"the\" guys in American literature - Harold Bloom puts him together with Cormac McCarthy, Don DeLillo and Thomas Pynchon as the four American novelists he thinks are worth praise. Having read at least one work from each of these authors the hour came to try Roth, too; this one was available so I picked it up and read it. Well, it turns out that The Plot Against America ain't all that it promises to be. iIn the novel it's 1940, and Roosevelt lost the election to Lindbergh, who's a nazi sympathizer and I think y'all can guess where this is going. This book screams \"alternative history!\" which is something I normally dig, but it does not deliver the promised goods. Mainly because the political and ideological turmoil is shown through the eyes of a young Jewish boy growing up in Newark, as he describes how he and his family and fellow Jews are affected the Lindberg presidency. The boy shares many biographical similarities with the author, which means that the book is about Philip Roth remembering his boyhood in New Jersey. The fact that the main character is named Philip Roth also helps support this claim. This is not Fatherland , which is a fabulous romp by Robert Harris about the world where Germany wins WW2. It's an exercise in personal reminiscence, with the alternative history aspect pushed into faint background. There's not really much to be said about The Plot Against America ; it's not The Handmaid's Tale , 1984 or even Fatherland . I did not find anything of exceptional value in it, nor did I thought it to be completely worthless; its biggest flaw is that it's largely forgettable, mostly because Roth does not do anything particularly original or challenging with the premise. The novel feels to be written very much by the numbers, and does not develop any particular dramatic tension. The pace feels sluggish at times, and the reader has to work to maintain interest in the text. The quality of the prose does not stick out as particularly worth of praise, but it needs not be condemned all the same - it carries the work forward instead of keeping it still. Perhaps the biggest flaw of the novel if that it might prove to be forgettable - although the details of the boyhood in Newarks and struggle of the Roth family can be interesting, one can ask - what's the point? the novel begins strongly but quickly loses steam, and at the end literally fizzles out, leaving the reader spent, but without a feeling of satisfaction. I am afraid that this particular volume does not show Roth's strenghts as a writer, and will try his other works in the future to get a better idea of him as a writer. Meanwhile, check this out - Roth wanted to correct a Wikipedia article on one of his novels, but they did not let him change the information and simply added what he submitted to the article. http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/entertain... ...more This alternative history ponders what might have happened had pilot Charles Lindbergh run against and defeated Roosevelt in 1940. The Plot Against America is a wonderful and surprising read -- especially in its restraint. Roth's story provides insightful commentary on how American presidential campaigns are run, our media's role in them, how we choose our leaders, the bigotry behind assimilation efforts, and how corruption can and often will run its course. At the book's end, I was surprised to This alternative history ponders what might have happened had pilot Charles Lindbergh run against and defeated Roosevelt in 1940. The Plot Against America is a wonderful and surprising read -- especially in its restraint. Roth's story provides insightful commentary on how American presidential campaigns are run, our media's role in them, how we choose our leaders, the bigotry behind assimilation efforts, and how corruption can and often will run its course. At the book's end, I was surprised to recall that oft-quoted line by Bill Clinton: \"There is nothing wrong with America that cannot be cured by what is right with America.\" I really *want* to believe that (if I could take comfort in succinct quotations, life would probably seem sunnier/simpler/etc. and I could be Kirstin Dunst in Eternal Sunshine BEFORE she finds out that her memory's been lobotomized), but oy, when you invert that statement, it rings equally true. Happily, this book is not just a Big Issues read; it's also about a very specific family. I get the sense that *this*, wrinkle in time aside, is the \"real\" childhood memoir that Roth has always longed to write. He's not hiding behind a character this time...here is an eight-year-old boy named Phil Roth who lives in 1940s Newark, who longs both for the right to stay and the means to escape. ...more<---C>Philip Roth</---C>", "Title": "The Plot Against America"},
