{"Comments": "I talk about this all the time,<---M> so here</---M>, definitively, is my explanation of the four categories of memoir. 1) People who have had seriously interesting / crazy lives, and who also happen to be terrific writers, able to render their stories in a compelling, original way (like David Small's brilliant Stitches , or what I consider the gold-standard memoir, Nick Flynn's breathtaking Another Bullshit Night in Suck City ). 2) People whose lives are interesting / crazy enough that it really doesn't ma I talk about this all the time, so here, definitively, is my explanation of the four categories of memoir. 1) People who have had seriously interesting / crazy lives, and who also happen to be terrific writers, able to render their stories in a compelling, original way (like David Small's brilliant Stitches , or what I consider the gold-standard memoir, Nick Flynn's breathtaking Another Bullshit Night in Suck City ). 2) People whose lives are interesting / crazy enough that it really doesn't matter how well they write, because theirs will necessarily be a compelling, original book just based on subject matter (like I Am Not Myself These Days , about the accountant-by-day, drag-queen-by-night, who wears fishbowls for boobs and lives with a crack-addicted boyfriend; or, yes, Running With Scissors ). 3) Really brilliant writers who can turn a \"normal\" life into a fascinating read (like Sloane Crosley or Alison Bechdel or Lynn Barber or -- fuck off, haters -- Dave Eggers). 4) Idiot people who don't write particularly well and who have more or less \"regular\" lives, but whose inflated sense of self leads them to write memoirs anyway. Right? Any memoir you read goes into one of those categories. Anyway, about this book: I totally liked it, but I feel kind of lied to, having seen the movie first. In the movie, everything was just reelingly insane, but so over-the-top that it was funny, and also it was light, somehow, and sort of fun. In the book, though, it's all so much darker, and it made me feel kind of awful for finding the movie so clever and cool. ...more I found this book profoundly disturbing and torturous to read. I understand that it is cleansing and theraputic for those that have been traumitized to write/talk aobut their problems to help with the healing process. There are very few things that my ironclad stomach can't suffer and my brain is developed enough to handle even the most shocking of situations. This book tested my patience from begining to end and in the end I was very dissapointed. First off, from reviews and the book cover I was I found this book profoundly disturbing and torturous to read. I understand that it is cleansing and theraputic for those that have been traumitized to write/talk aobut their problems to help with the healing process. There are very few things that my ironclad stomach can't suffer and my brain is developed enough to handle even the most shocking of situations. This book tested my patience from begining to end and in the end I was very dissapointed. First off, from reviews and the book cover I was given the impression that regardless of the contents within that this was a humurous look at this parcitular authors teenage years. What I found instead were rampant displays of sloth, decay and enough illegal activities to jail every one of the characters for 5-15 years in a PMIA prison. Debauchery doesn't disurb me in the slightest and I have a pension for books that provide plenty of shock and awe regardless of the legality. Secondly, the fact that such a gathering of mentally fucked people was not only allowed but encouraged disurbs me greatly...mostly because I find that this is an unfortunate circumstance that can be found in any city any where in the world. The truth of the book is what made me hate it. Rather than having hope for the characters I found that I wanted to euthanize them all just to end their misery. But hey three chapters of development and then putting them all down like rabbid dogs would have made for an even worse book. On a final note **SPOILER ALERT** if I was expecting a book detailing the disgusting side of middle America, horrendous images of mental illness, gay molestation and multiple lives ruined from neglect and substandard care I might have enjoyed it and found nothing humurous or uplifting on how the author presented. This might be a rare case where I don't bother to even give an author a second chance because of how bad this book was. ...more She wasn't \"Let's paint the kitchen red\" crazy. She was full on head in the oven, toothpaste sandwich, I am God crazy..<---F> paraphrased, but you get it</---F>.. I learned, along with the rest of my reading group, that running with scissors is preferable to reading this book. I read this book in about 4 hours. & maybe that's as good an encapsulation of the experience as I can give. I like the eccentric, non-plot-driven memoir that sounds too strange to be true... and because it exists, because it ACTUALLY happened (unlike you James Frey!!), it merits thoughts about American families in addition to the ironies of self-obsessed psychologies. Written in cute concise prose, even if some jokes do not actually make you laugh but sicken you to the point of feeling truly b I read this book in about 4 hours. & maybe that's as good an encapsulation of the experience as I can give. I like the eccentric, non-plot-driven memoir that sounds too strange to be true... and because it exists, because it ACTUALLY happened (unlike you James Frey!!), it merits thoughts about American families in addition to the ironies of self-obsessed psychologies. Written in cute concise prose, even if some jokes do not actually make you laugh but sicken you to the point of feeling truly bad for the preteen hero, the entire account is enormously entertaining, as is evident by the fast consumption of it. The movie is bad; despite Anette Bening, the creator of \"Nip/Tuck\" and the film's director does not go to where this descriptively homosexual, deeply self-reliant misfit of a person goes. ...more Family settles with \"<+++>Running with Scissors</+++>\" author, publisher By Rodrique Ngowi, Associated Press Writer | August 29, 2007 BOSTON --A family that claimed author <---A>Augusten Burroughs</---A> defamed them in his best-selling book \"<+++>Running with Scissors</+++>\" has settled a lawsuit against the author and his publisher, their attorney said Wednesday. Burroughs and his publisher, St. Martin's Press, agree to call the work a \"book\" instead of \"memoirs,\" in the author's note and to change the acknowledgments page in futu Family settles with \"Running with Scissors\" author, publisher By Rodrique Ngowi, Associated Press Writer | August 29, 2007 BOSTON --A family that claimed author Augusten Burroughs defamed them in his best-selling book \"Running with Scissors\" has settled a lawsuit against the author and his publisher, their attorney said Wednesday. Burroughs and his publisher, St. Martin's Press, agree to call the work a \"book\" instead of \"memoirs,\" in the author's note and to change the acknowledgments page in future editions to say that the Turcotte family's memories of events he describes \"are different than my own,\" and expressing regret for \"any unintentional harm\" to them, according to Howard Cooper, an attorney for the family. He said financial terms of the settlement are confidential. The family's lawsuit had sought $2 million in damages for defamation, invasion of privacy, and emotional distress. It alleged the book is largely fictional and written in a sensational way to increase its market appeal, and demanded a public retraction and an acknowledgment that \"Running With Scissors\" is a work of fiction. An attorney for Burroughs declined comment, and St. Martin's Press did not immediately return a call for comment Wednesday. Burroughs has said the book is only loosely based on his life. According to a statement from the family's attorneys, Burroughs' new acknowledgments note will say that the Turcottes \"are each fine, decent, and hardworking people,\" and that the book was not intended to hurt them. The deal comes 10 months after the family said it had \"mutually resolved\" issues with Sony Pictures Entertainment to avoid a lawsuit over a movie based on the book. \"With this settlement, together with our settlement with Sony last year, we have achieved everything we set out to accomplish when we filed suit two years ago,\" the family said in the statement. \"We have always maintained that the book is fictionalized and defamatory. This settlement is the most powerful vindication of those sentiments that we can imagine.\" Burroughs, formerly Christopher Robison, lived with the Turcottes in Northampton as a teenager. According to the lawsuit, Burroughs' entire family was in therapy with Dr. Rodolph Turcotte, a psychiatrist. In 1980, Burroughs' mother asked Turcotte to become his legal guardian so he could attend Northampton schools. His mother still cared for him, but he had a room at the Turcottes' home. Though the family in Burroughs' book is named \"the Finches,\" the lawsuit claims they are easily identified as the Turcottes, and that Burroughs identified them in interviews. Events in the book which the suit claimed were false include the Turcottes' condoning sexual affairs between children and adults, Turcotte's wife eating dog food and the family using an electroshock machine it stored under the stairs. The lawsuit claims the book also falsely portrays a home in unbelievable squalor, with a young child running around naked and defecating, and old turkey being stored in the showers. ...more It has been said that Truman Capote's last book, \"Answered Prayers,\" cost him the friendship of almost everyone he knew at that time in his life, and it has even been speculated that this contributed to his demise. He had mined the personal secrets and character flaws of those around him for literary gold, and most probably embellished as brilliant authors often do. The characters were apparently easily correlated to their real-life counterparts. And so, things haven't changed all that much. Augu It has been said that Truman Capote's last book, \"Answered Prayers,\" cost him the friendship of almost everyone he knew at that time in his life, and it has even been speculated that this contributed to his demise. He had mined the personal secrets and character flaws of those around him for literary gold, and most probably embellished as brilliant authors often do. The characters were apparently easily correlated to their real-life counterparts. And so, things haven't changed all that much. Augusten Burroughs has recently settled a lawsuit with the Turcotte family, referred to as \"the Finches,\" in \"Running with Scissors,\" for defamation, invasion of privacy, and emotional distress. This is due to events in the book claiming that the Turcottes advocated sex between children and adults, Turcotte's wife eating dog food, and the family using an electroshock machine that it stored under the stairs for recreation. I can honestly say that, If I were a member of the Turcotte household and knew that the events depicted in the book were undeniably false, I would most likely be outraged and choose the same course of action. That being said. This is simply one of the most engaging, darkly humorous, and skillfully written books I have read in years. The delusional mother, the unorthodox psychiatrist; every single character jumps off of the page in bizarre, warped technicolor. Hilarious. Horrifying. Difficult to describe. Skip the movie adaptation, which seems to lack the sense of absurdity in many key places. Does it have to be true to be brilliant writing? ...more (Today's review is much longer than Goodreads' word-count limitations. Find the entire essay at the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.) I've mentioned here regularly the entire idea of there being an \"underground-arts canon;\" that is, that just like the academic community, what we call the modern cutting-edge arts has now been around long enough (arguably (Today's review is much longer than Goodreads' word-count limitations. Find the entire essay at the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.) I've mentioned here regularly the entire idea of there being an \"underground-arts canon;\" that is, that just like the academic community, what we call the modern cutting-edge arts has now been around long enough (arguably since the early 1900s) that we can now say, \"If you want to consider yourself well-versed on the subject, you need to make sure to read this person and this person and this person.\" This is a hugely important subject among intellectuals, after all, because that's what intellectualism is mostly based on in the first place; of that entire group of deep thinkers coming together and collectively deciding what is most important to their group, of what most directly and profoundly helps any intelligent person understand what that group is all about. And thus in the last year and a half have I been desperately trying to fill in the holes of such a canon in my own life; for those who don't know, see, I spent the 15 years before opening CCLaP not as an academe but as an actual working artist, so mostly spent those years actually photographing and writing instead of reading and studying. It's important that I fill in these intellectual gaps now, precisely because I am trying to be a full-time arts critic these days, because it matters with artistic criticism just how much you know about the subject; and thus it is that I'm constantly having to admit these days to a woeful lack of exposure to this artist or that, as I finally make my way through the first of their projects and talk about them here at the site. And that, ladies and gentlemen, brings us to gay Generation X memoirist Augusten Burroughs; because Burroughs is precisely one of these shining lights of the so-called \"contemporary canon,\" according to his fans, one of those \"must-read\" authors you absolutely need to be familiar with, in order to understand the contemporary underground arts in any kind of sophisticated way whatsoever. His work has previously always simply eluded my attention, for whatever reason; before last week, not only had I never read any of his books, I hadn't even seen the slick high-budget 2006 Hollywood adaptation that was made of his first bestseller, the horrifically comedic / comedically horrific coming-of-age tale Running with Scissors , much less the four other freaking personal memoirs written since or the absurdist novel written before. And whether you like him or hate him, the simple fact is that my non-knowledge of his work is a weakness for me as a critic and book reviewer; there are simply so many people familiar with his books by now, so many references made in other literary reviews to his manuscripts, that any decent reporter of the underground needs to make sure they're familiar with him, for no other reason than so they're on the same page as other lovers of the underground. And it's all this, of course, that made it even such a bigger shock than normal when I actually sat down and read two of Burroughs' memoirs, his oldest (the aforementioned Scissors from 2002) and newest ( A Wolf at the Table , from 2008), and realized the following: \"Oh my God, Augusten Burroughs' memoirs f-cking suck.\" How can this be? , any intelligent person will ask at that moment -- how can it be that these books have had so much praise heaped on them over the years, when they turn out to be such weak excuses for compelling literature? Has there been...what, a massive hypnotic spell placed over all the people who gush and gush about the stirring prose and fascinating storylines found within? Has the collective lack of education and anti-intellectual stirrings of Neocon America over the last thirty years finally hit its tipping point, with the American populace simply no longer able to distinguish good books from bad ones? Is that what happened? Or is it that Burroughs got in during the last gasp of an artistic movement that we now consider trite and passe, exactly the \"Generation X\" house-of-cards I mentioned earlier, and thus suffers the dated wrath of a veteran like Douglas Coupland but at a fraction of the time? Because let's make no mistake -- when the snotty pop-culture historians of the future think back to these days, and specifically the whole New Age middle-class suburban Oprah Hillary \"It Takes A Village\" politically-correct pink-ribbon crowd, they will think of Augusten Burroughs. Because that's basically what both of these books are, through and through, from the first page to ostensibly the last; they are whiny, victim-oriented, badly-written, semi-made-up so-called \"true stories\" about just how bad poor little Augusten has had it his whole whimsically funny life, of how every terrible thing that's ever happened to him is everyone else's fault but his own, and how by the way all those bad things just happened to be poetically poignant and contained the exact kind of dialogue that makes middle-aged suburban Oprah-worshipping pink-ribbon-wearing New Age soccer moms swoon. Nice coincidence, that! And in fact, that brings up one of the first and ultimately biggest problems I encountered with Burroughs' work, when I tried to make my way through it for the first time last week; that it simply comes off as untrue, as made-up, not exactly a lie under the legal definition of the term, but definitely \"cutsied up\" so bad that it might as well be a fictional story. Because, see, for those who don't know, both of the books under review today supposedly cover Burroughs' early childhood among dysfunctional hippies in the \"let it all hang out\" 1970s, a series of vignettes that he actually writes from the mindset and viewpoint of that particular age; so in other words, if he's recalling an event from when he was five years old, he actually writes it as a five-year-old would supposedly see it. And in that manner, Burroughs essentially gets to have his cake and eat it too; he gets to say outrageously offensive things about all the real people around him at that time in his life, absurdly unprovable things that rely as much on magical realism as...you know, realism , while still having the convenient James-Frey Oprahesque New-Age excuse of, \"I'm a writer, and I'm paid to write about how something felt . And this is how these events felt to me. And it doesn't matter if what I say is exactly true or not, not from a factual standpoint, because they are factual accounts of how I felt at that moment, or perhaps how I felt thirty years later when looking back on it through the filter of a mainstream publishing contract and looming deadline.\" I think it's very telling, for example, that his own parents freaking sued him for defamation when Scissors came out*, but that this hasn't stopped any of these publishing companies from continuing to put out, put out, put out yet another semi-crap childhood memoir and yet another semi-crap childhood memoir by him. Because simply, we live in an age where a huge majority of the American public can no longer distinguish fact from fiction -- an age where over 50 percent of all Americans believe that The DaVinci Code is a true story, an age where over 50 percent of all Americans believe that The Secret is a true story. And that's because our country's educational system has been steadily crumbling since the end of World War Two, since the moment the US first started embracing the military-industrial complex, and first started diverting more and more of our national budget away from everything else and towards the military. No one gets a decent education in the United States anymore, critics claim, not unless they seek one out as an adult as the theory goes; and therefore most Americans are no longer even educated enough to understand the difference between true and made-up, the difference between science and \"Intelligent Design\" (i.e. \"Creationism\" with a new name), the difference between \"memoir\" and \"sh-t I pulled out of my ass that sounds all tragic and crap, and that no one can exactly either prove or disprove.\" And that's why earlier, I said that I was only guessing at what was the \"ostensible\" endings of these books; because to admit the absolute truth, I only made it about halfway through Running With Scissors before finally giving up, and couldn't even get thirty pages into A Wolf at the Table without doing the same. And seriously, Mr. Burroughs, if you just happen to ever come across this review -- I understand that writers with unique voices are easy to parody, precisely because they have unique voices, but do you really have to make it so damn tempting as well? \"Me. Pre-natal. What are these fleshy jail-cell walls that hold me in so tightly? Probably the result of my mother, of course, the cocktail-swilling fool. I wish to yell at her, wish to express my disgust at her smothering yet cold presence. But then I realize -- Oh yes, that's right, I'm a fetus. I'm not yet capable of advanced thought or human speech. So why is it that I'm already so eerily attracted to the Six Million Dollar Man?\" UGH. It's writers like Augusten Burroughs that makes me want to turn my entire back on Generation X in general, despite me actually being a member of Generation X; it's books like these that makes me understand why kids currently in their twenties hate me and my friends so much, of why they feel the desire to angrily vomit whenever the subjects of tribal-tattoos or Pearl Jam are... ...more Burroughs offers a book that is supposedly a memoir. If so, then truth is definitely stranger than fiction. Let\u2019s say I am skeptical. If you thought you had a tough adolescence a look at Burroughs\u2019 tale will put your experience into a little perspective. He grew up in western Massachusetts to a mother who was probably bi-polar, in what seems like ground zero for inappropriate behavior. She was seeing a peculiar psychiatrist who had a fondness for having patients come to live at his home, a chaot Burroughs offers a book that is supposedly a memoir. If so, then truth is definitely stranger than fiction. Let\u2019s say I am skeptical. If you thought you had a tough adolescence a look at Burroughs\u2019 tale will put your experience into a little perspective. He grew up in western Massachusetts to a mother who was probably bi-polar, in what seems like ground zero for inappropriate behavior. She was seeing a peculiar psychiatrist who had a fondness for having patients come to live at his home, a chaotic household that was a combination of You Can\u2019t Take it With You and the Addams Family. Augusten\u2019s mother, unable to cope, essentially gives her son to the shrink. That Augusten was gay adds even more color to this. That he engages in an affair, as a thirteen-year-old, with one of the shrink\u2019s adopted children, a man in his thirties, makes that a dark color indeed. Augusten Burroughs - from his site While one may feel some sympathy for the author, who had difficulties in school, who was very much a free spirit, who had a pretty awful family, and had to cope with the ostracism and hostility engendered by his sexual inclination, he does not seem like a person I would want to know. Maybe as an adult he grew out of some of the more destructive behavior depicted here. One does not have to like the author, or his character in a book, to appreciate the work itself. It is an engaging, fast read and I was drawn in for the duration. While Running With Scissors may be tough to swallow as pure, fact-based memoir, I found that treating it as if it were labeled \u201ca novel\u201d made it all go down a lot easier. ============================= EXTRA STUFF Links to the author\u2019s personal , Twitter and FB pages ...more When I read this book, I was really appalled that people would classify it as a comedy, and that the makers of the film would treat it as such. I thought it was one of the most tragic things I have ever read in my life. The fact that this kid had to deal with not only his crazy parents, but an entirely crazy family is heartbreaking. And it's not just that they're quirky, like everyone seems to make them out to be, but they really are insane. And in the worst possible way. And then he gets totall When I read this book, I was really appalled that people would classify it as a comedy, and that the makers of the film would treat it as such. I thought it was one of the most tragic things I have ever read in my life. The fact that this kid had to deal with not only his crazy parents, but an entirely crazy family is heartbreaking. And it's not just that they're quirky, like everyone seems to make them out to be, but they really are insane. And in the worst possible way. And then he gets totally sexually abused by a thiry year old when he's thirteen, and yet all the reviews I read call it a \"relationship.\" It makes me sick. And he not only had to deal with some really disgusting sexual stuff with that guy, but he walked in on and was a part of some really gross and freaky stuff that everyone else in his life is doing. By the end of it I was hoping all of these people would go to jail or metal institutions, and that all the kids involved in this madness would get some serious psychiatric help and stop listening to their nutso dad. The whole thing just really broke my heart, and it speaks loads about our society that people treat this like a comedy. But I do have to say that it was really well written, and I would classify it as an important book to read to get a view of some of the psycho things going on in this country. ...more My brother's account of our childhood and life with the Finches This book is supposed to be funny?! I kept waiting for the amusement as I waded through increasingly appalling characters that were not likable, interesting, or remotely relatable. Crazy and abusive is not quirky and lovable. Well I suppose there is a way to write it that way, but this is written with a tinge of bitterness. What is so amusing about royally screwing up a child's life? Between books I'd try to get back into this story that was ok but not good enough to grab my attention. But it's a This book is supposed to be funny?! I kept waiting for the amusement as I waded through increasingly appalling characters that were not likable, interesting, or remotely relatable. Crazy and abusive is not quirky and lovable. Well I suppose there is a way to write it that way, but this is written with a tinge of bitterness. What is so amusing about royally screwing up a child's life? Between books I'd try to get back into this story that was ok but not good enough to grab my attention. But it's a best seller and raved about how hilarious the book is so I kept trying to stick through it. I'm all for sad memoirs, but such flagrant abuse of every kind, the kind that require years of therapy, presented without love or reconciliation is not my kind of humor. Then to discover these crimes are mostly fabricated events about true people and I am supposed to take that kind of defamation with a laugh? The story progressed from disturbing to all shades of disgusting until the filth was too much for me. I browsed a few of the later chapters, read the end, but nope there was no redemption, no coming to terms, nothing but a sick disaster. I'm not sure what all the craze is about unless it's solely popular amidst sociopaths who like to beat up little kids on Halloween and take their candy. ...more I was interested in reading this after getting hints of the story in Burroughs' brother's memoir \"Look Me in the Eye\". My honest reaction? This book made me deeply uncomfortable. Oh, I kept reading it, the same way I and everyone else would keep eyeballing a car accident, as the old clich\u00e9 goes. But there was a part of me that honestly couldn't believe that all of this stuff was real. And if it was, how could Burroughs write about it almost as if it was a years-long romp? (I know I go against al I was interested in reading this after getting hints of the story in Burroughs' brother's memoir \"Look Me in the Eye\". My honest reaction? This book made me deeply uncomfortable. Oh, I kept reading it, the same way I and everyone else would keep eyeballing a car accident, as the old clich\u00e9 goes. But there was a part of me that honestly couldn't believe that all of this stuff was real. And if it was, how could Burroughs write about it almost as if it was a years-long romp? (I know I go against all my empathetic instincts when I say such things.) I've lived through family weirdness; I've read plenty of other memoirs and novels dealing with it. This one disturbed me. I can't say why. (Perhaps the fact that it was made into a ha-ha-look-at-the-crazy-family movie?) Interesting also to consider is the reaction of the family the story is based on. They say--rightly, based on what Burroughs himself writes--that Burroughs was always searching for fame. Did he milk his own story, overexaggerating it? Either way, the impetus to write it, the way it was written, suggests psychological disturbance to me that is really unsettling. And let's not forget the wild critical reaction to it! I don't think it was spectacularly written. It had a lot of shock value. There was something gleeful in how much people enjoyed reading of this fucked-up family's existence. I guess my conclusion is, the whole thing just creeped me out. ...more I'm really not a fan of this memoir craze, and Running With Scissors is no exception. It shows potential in some parts, where the author puts down the 2x4 he was using to beat you over the head with and just tells a story. Most of the time, though, he's not-so-subtly reminding you that he had a terrible childhood, his dad hated him, his mum was crazy, he didn't have anyone, etc. Yawn. In an age where 52% of marriages end in divorce, this is everyone's story. Now it's just a pissing match to see I'm really not a fan of this memoir craze, and Running With Scissors is no exception. It shows potential in some parts, where the author puts down the 2x4 he was using to beat you over the head with and just tells a story. Most of the time, though, he's not-so-subtly reminding you that he had a terrible childhood, his dad hated him, his mum was crazy, he didn't have anyone, etc. Yawn. In an age where 52% of marriages end in divorce, this is everyone's story. Now it's just a pissing match to see who hates themselves more, and I don't want to hear about any of it. I've got better things to read than pity parties, thanks. If I want to read quirky and funny family anecdotes I'll stick with David Sedaris, who doesn't feel the need to suddenly switch to a violin and try to cheaply play on my affections. My copy of the book also came with a preview of Burrough's sequel to Running, Dry. In order to fully stick it out I read this section and rolled my eyes so hard I think I sprained something. He not only regurgitates his terrible, awful childhood at random intervals, but has turned into a pompous, arrogant arse. If I didn't want to finish Running With Scissors , then I really won't want to look at Dry . Spare your eyes. ...more I know the family, I know the ego-crazed and self-indulgent overgrown baby who wrote this book, and I find it not only sloppily written but vicious and hate-filled. It's a mother-bashing, lesbian-bashing, lying heap of crap. You can see I am worked up about it. I wouldn't mind if it were called a novel (which it is). I only object to its being called a \"memoir.\" Read instead Jackie Leyden's beautiful hymn to the mixed blessings of growing up with a mother who had bipolar disorder, DAUGHTER OF TH I know the family, I know the ego-crazed and self-indulgent overgrown baby who wrote this book, and I find it not only sloppily written but vicious and hate-filled. It's a mother-bashing, lesbian-bashing, lying heap of crap. You can see I am worked up about it. I wouldn't mind if it were called a novel (which it is). I only object to its being called a \"memoir.\" Read instead Jackie Leyden's beautiful hymn to the mixed blessings of growing up with a mother who had bipolar disorder, DAUGHTER OF THE QUEEN OF SHEBA. There is absolutely no comparison between \"Burroughs\" as he calls himself and David Sedaris. Sedaris writes from joy. \"Burroughs\" writes from hatred. ...more This book was hilarious and horrifying, at once raucous and deeply disturbing. Burroughs writes like a man who has not entirely made peace with his madhouse childhood but has found a certain kind of solace in his off-center coping mechanisms. His anecdotes are hysterical but mingled with catharses that are simply stated and give the impression of a friendly confidence. This was Burroughs' biggest claim-to-fame book, quite possibly because of the sheer shock value compared with his other novels [ This book was hilarious and horrifying, at once raucous and deeply disturbing. Burroughs writes like a man who has not entirely made peace with his madhouse childhood but has found a certain kind of solace in his off-center coping mechanisms. His anecdotes are hysterical but mingled with catharses that are simply stated and give the impression of a friendly confidence. This was Burroughs' biggest claim-to-fame book, quite possibly because of the sheer shock value compared with his other novels [which I think should all be best-sellers with giant stamps on them that say \"LOL\"]. This memoir of the author's young life gives a lot of context to what I had already read about his alcoholism and adulthood. This book is told in the same sort of slice-of-life way - everything is told chronologically and it all links together to tell the bigger story, but each chapter stands alone, too, and has a segmentary title that contributes to that feeling of many individual moments that coalesce into one's whole life. This memoir was just as hilarious as the other Burroughs that I read, and I found myself both gasping and o_O-ing at the horrid circumstance of his childhood and laughing out loud at his dark humor and plainclothes perception of the madness he grew up mired in. The quote on the first page of the book - Look for the ridiculous in everything and you will find it. - Jules Renard - is absolutely the mission statement of this triumphant novel. Mission accomplished. ...more I read this when it first came out in 2003 and was instantly smitten with Augusten Burroughs. He cracks me up! You won't believe that the things he writes about really happened, but allegedly, they did. I read something recently about the shrink's family and their denial about several things in the book. If you were them, wouldn't you try to deny it too, though? Anyway, great read, will have you laughing out loud. This is not your mother's kind of book, you've got to be young and hip and open-mi I read this when it first came out in 2003 and was instantly smitten with Augusten Burroughs. He cracks me up! You won't believe that the things he writes about really happened, but allegedly, they did. I read something recently about the shrink's family and their denial about several things in the book. If you were them, wouldn't you try to deny it too, though? Anyway, great read, will have you laughing out loud. This is not your mother's kind of book, you've got to be young and hip and open-minded to appreciate it. Burroughs is so witty, you can't help but think he's cool even though he's got his share of problems. ...more I have to warm you that I am going to give a spoiler here, the spoiler I happened upon as I had just begun reading this book and was just hooked enough by the descriptive style of writing and interesting content that I wanted to continue regardless. However, the spoiler ultimately affected my experience of the book and may affect yours as well. So don't read this, unless you've already read the book. The family that \"Augusten Burroughs\" focuses most of his memoir around are suing him. They say th I have to warm you that I am going to give a spoiler here, the spoiler I happened upon as I had just begun reading this book and was just hooked enough by the descriptive style of writing and interesting content that I wanted to continue regardless. However, the spoiler ultimately affected my experience of the book and may affect yours as well. So don't read this, unless you've already read the book. The family that \"Augusten Burroughs\" focuses most of his memoir around are suing him. They say that some of the info is downright false (living outside for the summer of the yard sale) and some is vastly exaggerated and mean. They say that they still care for him, and suspect he is currently happy because he was fame-obsessed. They also say his name is Chris Robison. I found myself reading the name \"Chris\" in my mind over the place of the haughty \"Augusten\" that he has dubbed himself, just to gain perspective. This is like another adventure in James Frey land. How real is real enough? That being said, it's a fun and enjoyable book, though how it was funny is a little beyond me. He doesn't remind me of David Sedaris at all (as the book jacket suggests) and I laughed out loud rarely and despite myself. I don't dislike it, I just don't love it. I will watch the movie, just to see. So I suppose it has hooked me in a way. ...more I love this book. The abysmal movie that was made of it was a travesty, because this book...I relate to the crazy family part, that's all I'm saying about it :) Funny and very well written. The graphic homosexual sex scenes will be too much for some readers but were contextually relevant. I have tried since reading this to understand Burroughs' quirky, angst obsessive postmodernist world view, and perhaps he cannot put a definite label on it either, but then on the other hand, Burroughs' may be one of those special writers whose opinions and style rightly fit into the \"other\" category of literary genres and upon which a label does not easily apply. For t Funny and very well written. The graphic homosexual sex scenes will be too much for some readers but were contextually relevant. I have tried since reading this to understand Burroughs' quirky, angst obsessive postmodernist world view, and perhaps he cannot put a definite label on it either, but then on the other hand, Burroughs' may be one of those special writers whose opinions and style rightly fit into the \"other\" category of literary genres and upon which a label does not easily apply. For this reason, I like his writing very much, and it was a great visit with the 1970s. Non-conformists of the world unite. ...more I won this copy of Running with Scissors in a Goodreads Giveaway. This is my fair and honest review! 2.5/5.0 Stars Okay I\u2019ve procrastinated long enough on this one. I really, really wanted to love this book but, despite all the rave reviews and critical acclaim, I just didn\u2019t feel it. Please don\u2019t hate me all you Augusten Burroughs fans out there. This book confused the heck out of me and I simply could not get past the pedophilia. Confused? You bet! This is a memoir about some pretty serious and I won this copy of Running with Scissors in a Goodreads Giveaway. This is my fair and honest review! 2.5/5.0 Stars Okay I\u2019ve procrastinated long enough on this one. I really, really wanted to love this book but, despite all the rave reviews and critical acclaim, I just didn\u2019t feel it. Please don\u2019t hate me all you Augusten Burroughs fans out there. This book confused the heck out of me and I simply could not get past the pedophilia. Confused? You bet! This is a memoir about some pretty serious and disturbing stuff \u2026 dysfunctional family headed up by a father who is an alcoholic university mathematics professor and a severely mentally ill mother aspiring to be a famous poet. Norman and Deidre loathed each other! Augusten\u2019s brother fled the parental battlefield when he was just sixteen while seven year old Augusten remained with his parents in Leverett, MA until their eventual divorce four years later after years of marital counseling with three different psychiatrists. It\u2019s after the divorce that the true craziness sets in. Deidre sees Dr. Finch for hours each day to deal with her mental illness and Augusten spends lots of time at Dr. Finch\u2019s home on 67 Perry Street in Northampton. The home is a dump; some of Finch\u2019s patients live in the home along with the doctor\u2019s children and eventually Augusten takes up permanent residence on Perry Street when Deidre makes Finch Augusten\u2019s legal guardian! Then there\u2019s the pedophilia where thirteen year old Augusten has oral and anal sex with thirty-three year old Neil Bookman. And the adults tacitly condoned this activity! There is no way I\u2019d describe this as \u201cwickedly, ridiculously funny\u201d as noted by the Boston Herald. Far from it! Sounds gross right? Therein lies the nature of my confusion. This is pretty rough stuff but it\u2019s told in a very comical, almost satirical manner that doesn\u2019t feel like a memoir at all. It felt so unbelievable that I mistook it for a work of fiction much of the time. \u201cThis can\u2019t be real,\u201d I thought over and over as I read the tale. I took to Google to cull some background color and found lots of information about the film based on this book \u2013 black comedy, semi-autobiographical account, and emotionally edgy were some of the movie descriptors. I read other accounts of folks involved with the real life Dr. Finch (Doctor Rodolph Turcotte) and his unorthodox psychiatric practices (which by today\u2019s standards would be completely illegal and unethical) and they had a very different view of events. I\u2019m not disputing the story, only trying to explain how confused and disturbing I found this story to be. Perhaps Burroughs\u2019s pain was so great he had to take a comedic tack because the reality of the situation was just too much to bear. Anyway, here is a different perspective of the events of the Turcotte home in the early 1970\u2019s http://www.litkicks.com/Turcottes I can confirm that all the places in the story are very real. I went to school at UMASS-Amherst and currently live just twenty-one miles south of Northampton, MA. I remember the All Star Market, Ann August, the Hampshire Mall and Chess King \u2026 oh my goodness Chess King was so ahead of its time! Northampton is certainly a place very conducive to this type of zaniness; especially back in the \u201cI\u2019m OK, You\u2019re OK\u201d heydays of the 1970s. To the kind folks at Goodreads \u2013 thank you for the book! To the folks thinking about reading this one - WARNING: This is NOT a comedy! ...more I began this book Monday night, 3/24. I almost decided to put it down, thinking, \"Oh, here we go. Another memoir with witty inclusions of past pop culture, preying on my nostalgia.\" But then, I couldn't get over Burroughs' memory of the details from the past, such as the ticking of a cooling hair dryer or how he felt when dressed just so. And then I thought, \"This guy can't be for real. He's making up details to fill the space.\" But I decided to keep going after his description of the dump run w I began this book Monday night, 3/24. I almost decided to put it down, thinking, \"Oh, here we go. Another memoir with witty inclusions of past pop culture, preying on my nostalgia.\" But then, I couldn't get over Burroughs' memory of the details from the past, such as the ticking of a cooling hair dryer or how he felt when dressed just so. And then I thought, \"This guy can't be for real. He's making up details to fill the space.\" But I decided to keep going after his description of the dump run with his father. Burroughs' desire for the abandoned coffee table, his description of how he would make it look nice and shiny (Windex! magazines!), and his childish wish to be flung from the car just made me keep going. So far, so good. ***UPDATE*** 3/27/08 This book has gone from weird to disturbing. I don't know what is more disturbing: the stories or Burroughs' resiliency. The idea that his mother inadvertently protected Burroughs' older brother by NOT seeking medical advice certainly seems true to me. No telling what would have happened to the brother had he been evaluated by a doctor as . . . different as Dr. Finch. I like that we are introduced to an adult flaw in the pre-teen Augusten: his treatment of Bookman. It's disturbing, and his failure to see the danger in his behavior is alarming. His exposure to his parents' fighting and Dr. F's encouragement of expressions of anger to the extreme, seem to have desensitized Augusten to the power of anger and the effect words can have on people. I wonder where this Bookman thing is going. I'll be glad when he's out of the story. ***UPDATE*** 3/31/2008 Burroughs' unapologetic, naked memoir confounds my own sense of privacy. I don't understand how someone can be so open about his history. He's writing from outside, as if he is his own character. He's become his own patient. I do envy Burroughs' need to write. I think really great writers feel as if they cannot or are not living unless they are writing. I've never felt that way. I like the book, overall. I can't read Dry right now, however. I need a break. Imagine how Burroughs feels. ...more Alternatve Title: Stabbing Yourself with Scissors I've always looked at this book, picked it up, and put it back down. I was wary because it seemed like something Sedaris would write, and I really hate Sedaris. Also, look at the cover. Always judge books by covers! It's in sepia-uh oh, you know it's a memoir. And he's got a box on his head-he must be crazy! Still, I'd heard people liked it, so when I came across it in my local used bookstore, I thought I'd give it a try. I got through 20 pages. Ma Alternatve Title: Stabbing Yourself with Scissors I've always looked at this book, picked it up, and put it back down. I was wary because it seemed like something Sedaris would write, and I really hate Sedaris. Also, look at the cover. Always judge books by covers! It's in sepia-uh oh, you know it's a memoir. And he's got a box on his head-he must be crazy! Still, I'd heard people liked it, so when I came across it in my local used bookstore, I thought I'd give it a try. I got through 20 pages. Maybe. First, I am so over \"crazy troubled childhood\" stories. Over. Done. Move on. Your early years sucked. Boo hoo. Not my problem. Second, I hate books that say \"look at this event! That was really crazy! I mean I had some really wacky people around me! And then that one time we did something completely nonsensical-that was a hoot! Let's learn life lessons about it!\" So this book has the distinction of going on my shortlist of books I have never finished. I have not even the slightest desire to pick it up and try it again. Don't mention this book in my presence unless you're mocking it. ...more I quit reading this book halfway through. Like I read in another review, he's a bit of a David Sedaris wannabe. There's sort of a dark, absurd humor going on. I think he thinks he's being \"light\" by treating the subject matter \"lightly,\" and sometimes it works. (I actually love David Sedaris, by the way, but I prefer listening to him over reading him.). As opposed to Mr. Sedaris, this guy gets really vulgar, offensive, and disgusting. It's all in the name of \"art\" I suppose, but I'm pretty toler I quit reading this book halfway through. Like I read in another review, he's a bit of a David Sedaris wannabe. There's sort of a dark, absurd humor going on. I think he thinks he's being \"light\" by treating the subject matter \"lightly,\" and sometimes it works. (I actually love David Sedaris, by the way, but I prefer listening to him over reading him.). As opposed to Mr. Sedaris, this guy gets really vulgar, offensive, and disgusting. It's all in the name of \"art\" I suppose, but I'm pretty tolerant and found it to be really objectionable. There are ways of getting your point across without hitting people over the head with repulsive details over... and over... and over... I've never quit reading a book before because I found it offensive. Congratulations to this guy. ...more Boring Prose sprinkled with the kind of sensationalism that can only come from a man with the hubris to change his name from Chris Robinson to Augusten Xon Burroughs. I wanted this to be a one-sentence review, because that's all it deserves, but I just can't: XON!!!??? FUCKING XON!!!???? WHERE IS MY GODDAMN INTERROBANG!!!!????? JUST CALL YOURSELF XENU FOR SHIT'S SAKE. CHRISTING FUCKBELLY TURDSQUABBLE. I really enjoyed this book. A young Augusten is thrust into the middle of his parents divorce he has to deal with his father's suppressed and detached anger and his mother's many manic episodes. Which brings him to live with his mother's psychiatrist's family. The Finch family are an incredibly odd bunch. Dysfunctional in all the best kind of ways. The situations almost border on the ridiculous which makes this a fun memoir. It seems the crazier the better and many situations depicted here begs I really enjoyed this book. A young Augusten is thrust into the middle of his parents divorce he has to deal with his father's suppressed and detached anger and his mother's many manic episodes. Which brings him to live with his mother's psychiatrist's family. The Finch family are an incredibly odd bunch. Dysfunctional in all the best kind of ways. The situations almost border on the ridiculous which makes this a fun memoir. It seems the crazier the better and many situations depicted here begs disbelief but it's such an inclusive family that you can't bring yourself to judge these people...well ok just abit. How Augusten copes and deals with the pains of growing up in a world he doesn't feel he completely belongs in, he finds himself enveloped by a strange assortment of characters that seem to make him appear more \"normal\" they take him in and completely accept him and help him discover himself in a humorous open and honest way. Some parts I hope for the sake of decency & morality are exaggerated (Bookman!!??) I couldn't help but picture the movie characters as the real life characters in the book so that kind of distracted me from fully immersing myself in this. But nevertheless I will read more of his books as it was all so weird and whacky, and I kinda dig that. ...more Read this when it first came out ---GREAT!!!!!!!!!!!!! The movie: They trashed the book! Augusten Burroughs (born 1965 in Pittsburg as Christopher Robison) was named in 2005 as one, ranked 15, of \u201cThe 25 Funniest People in America\u201d by Entertainment Weekly, People and The Guardian. This memoir of his gay boyhood, \u201cRunning With Scissors\u201d came out in 2003. On the same year, Burroughs came out with \u201cDry\u201d about his experience being alcoholic and \u201cMagical Thinking\u201d a collection of memoir essays. I am not sure if any of these works made him funny to the American people but I guess it must b Augusten Burroughs (born 1965 in Pittsburg as Christopher Robison) was named in 2005 as one, ranked 15, of \u201cThe 25 Funniest People in America\u201d by Entertainment Weekly, People and The Guardian. This memoir of his gay boyhood, \u201cRunning With Scissors\u201d came out in 2003. On the same year, Burroughs came out with \u201cDry\u201d about his experience being alcoholic and \u201cMagical Thinking\u201d a collection of memoir essays. I am not sure if any of these works made him funny to the American people but I guess it must be his first novel, \u201cSellevision\u201d (2000) which was a comedy fiction that contains themes of greed and obsession and was adapted into a television series. I did not find this book funny. It is okay though. I admire Burroughs courage to tell his story. There is a controversy that he weaved lies and/or exaggerated the truth about his mother\u2019s psychiatrist. However, there is the so-called poetic licence that writers are entitled to use to make their writings more interesting to their intended readers. That is probably the reason why the court ruled that this book, in its succeeding editions, be called fiction rather than a memoir. Fair enough. Still saying that you have a neurotic, drug-addict, lesbian mother and you had your first oral and anal sex experiences at the age of 13 are unthinkable for me. He has the intention to shock, I have no doubt about it because he told those sexual experiences like he was in court: detailed and disgusting. I just don't see the point. I read other gay boyhood memoirs like Edmund White's A Boy's Own Story or Jean Genet's Our Lady of the Flowers . Edmund White did not go to details of his homosexual experiences but I was able to emphatize and almost imagine the pain of what some gay boys have to endure to be accepted. Burroughs is a total reverse of White. Burroughs is proud of being gay and he did not reserve anything for his more \"sensitive\" readers. The vivid sexual details that he incorporated in the story are so disgusting that I wonder how some of my friends here in Goodreads could rated this 4 or 5 stars. Burroughs knows how to tell a story, I have no issue about that. It's just that I don't find it funny when people wash their dirty too dirty it is almost unwashable lines in public. Respect others and be more tackful please. Or maybe it is my upbringing so to those you enjoyed this book, please excuse my rants. Let's say we ignore the fact that Burroughs is a homosexual. Don't get me wrong: I am not homophobic. In fact, I have a number of gay (or just gayish) friends and we get along with one another and we can talk anything under the sun. My view in homosexuality is that, one does not need to flaunt it. If you are gay, just be gay and you don't need to tell me. Or if you choose to tell me, it is definitely a non-issue. Just like straight men. We don't flaunt that we are straight. Everything just shows. We all do and get sex but we do not go around and talk about it. Much more to write books about it with descriptions so vivid that gives one the feeling that he/she is reading a homo gay book. In other words, get past those gay sex parts of this book and you will still find this worth reading. I am just not sure how much of this book is true: my edition still says \"a memoir.\" ...more Augusten Burroughs childhood was not your average childhood. Most of us don't have our insane mothers sending us packing to go live with their shrink. If that wasn't bad enough, the household members of the Finch family - blood and adopted - are also crazy. And definitely not tidy. Not in any sense of the word. . . . This book was funny, sad, vulgar (mainly vulgar, actually). The one person I was actually liking was Hope until the cat incident. She never seemed quite right to me after that but I' Augusten Burroughs childhood was not your average childhood. Most of us don't have our insane mothers sending us packing to go live with their shrink. If that wasn't bad enough, the household members of the Finch family - blood and adopted - are also crazy. And definitely not tidy. Not in any sense of the word. . . . This book was funny, sad, vulgar (mainly vulgar, actually). The one person I was actually liking was Hope until the cat incident. She never seemed quite right to me after that but I'm not sure why I thought initially she was semi-normal. Augusten has an affair with an older man when he is a young teenager. I had no problem with that being in this story but I ended up skipping some chapters about their sex life. (Did I mention the vulgar part of this book?) I didn't feel the graphic depictions of their relationship enhanced the book other than to emphasize just how messed up this whole thing really was. There were some rather disgusting things in this book. I don't even know what to say about the scatalogical fortune telling chapter. Like, what???? Did I really read that? Did that really happen? Yet I kept reading. I really did need to know how this ended. I appreciated the epilogue. Did some googling and saw the \"Finch\" family sued him for two million dollars. Hmmmm. I can't say I would recommend this book to anyone but it's been on my to-read list for so long I'm actually glad I read it. (Except now I can't get some of these images out of my mind. Make it go away, please. . . .) ...more I loved this book a lot. I am not sure that I buy that all that could have happened to one chid in one lifetime but looking at my own life it could be possible i guess. The book is a lot better than the movie but they both have their redeeming qualities. I think that he is a great story teller and this is evident in his other books too.<---C>Augusten Burroughs</---C>", "Title": "Running with Scissors"},
