{"Comments": "<+++>Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America</+++>Dear <---A>Barbara Ehrenreich</---A>, How do I resent thee? Let me count the ways: 1. You are a wealthy, highly educated person who went on a half-assed, anthropological slumming vacation. 2. When said vacation was over, you told your coworkers: \"Surprise! I'm not a poor person after all! I'm going back now to my comfortable life!\"...and then you were surprised that those coworkers were mostly worried about the fact that they'd have to work the next shift with one less person. 3. You also were surprised that th Dear Barbara Ehrenreich, How do I resent thee? Let me count the ways: 1. You are a wealthy, highly educated person who went on a half-assed, anthropological slumming vacation. 2. When said vacation was over, you told your coworkers: \"Surprise! I'm not a poor person after all! I'm going back now to my comfortable life!\"...and then you were surprised that those coworkers were mostly worried about the fact that they'd have to work the next shift with one less person. 3. You also were surprised that the aforementioned coworkers were neither impressed nor appreciative that you turned out to be a wealthy, highly educated person writing a book about how hard it is to be a poor person. 4. You were slightly offended that nobody saw through your waitress costume; you assumed that smart people are visually recognizable, and it didn't seem to occur to you that real poor people might also be smart and educated. 5. The experiences you had while pretending to be a poor person may have instilled in you some amount of sympathy for poor people, but you will never really know what it's actually like to be poor. It was certainly nice enough of you to decide that you shouldn't judge a class of people until you'd walked a mile in their shoes...but you only managed to walk about three paces before your feet hurt and you decided you had seen enough. A real poor person does not have a couple grand to \"start\" with,<---M> or to stay afloat between jobs</---M>, after finding his or her working conditions intolerable and suddenly quitting. Nor does a real poor person, when he or she develops some nasty rash from said intolerable working conditions, have a private doctor who will phone in a prescription for soothing ointment. Since a poor person does not have access to said doctor, he or she has to just suck it up and go to work itchy. I'm glad that this book might bring some much-needed insight to middle-and-upper-class people to whom it had never before occurred that it's actually really shitty to make minimum wage, that people working shitty service jobs have bad attitudes for very good reasons, that a person can work very hard and still be very poor, and that there are myriad external obstacles that keep poor people from pulling themselves up by their proverbial bootstraps. What I am NOT glad about is that this could have been an excellent, enlightening book about the less abstract aspects of our country's economic structure...<---F>but it was not</---F>. Instead, it was just a nauseatingly narcissistic exploration of the author's personality. What many people seem not to understand is (among other things) that there is not only one kind of poor person (or only one kind of \"working class\" person), that poverty is not just a condition, but a cycle , and that contemporary poverty is not some ahistorical thing that just recently appeared when people started having poor money-management skills and learned how to make crack. Contemporary poverty is a result of Capitalism, but one doesn't have to be a commie liberal to know that. Sure, there are many poor people who are crack addicts. There are also many, many rich people who are coke addicts. I'm sure that if poor people could afford real cocaine, they would buy that instead of crack, but alas, good cocaine is too expensive for poor drug addicts who make bad decisions. People who are not poor make many of the same decisions that poor people do (like acquiring a drug habit, or having children, or quitting a job). One big difference is that people with enough money can afford to make bad decisions. Another big difference is that your life feels a hell of a lot different when you don't have an easy out. Maybe working as a waitress is kind of fun and interesting and not too stressful if you know you'll only be doing it until you get bored. It's another thing entirely when your only other real, long term option seems to be some other kind of awful service job, and when you know that this is your life , not a break from your \"real\" job and \"real\" life. When you feel tired and desperate and angry and resigned all the time, when every day you perform the emotional and physical labor of serving people who treat you like shit and pay you practically nothing, how are you supposed to gather enough energy and hope to seek out a better life? You probably can't. Instead, you probably are going to buy some beer or weed and enjoy the few moments of your life that you can. Maybe that's a \"bad decision\"...or maybe it's just a survival strategy. ...more (warning, a nerve has been touched!) I have experience working with and researching programs that aid the poor and working poor. I hated this book. The only role it could play is as a weak talking piece for starting up serious discussion about the struggles and needs of the poor. Barbara Ehrenreich may have stepped outside her comfort zone and into the world of the working poor, but she did it with an educated background, with money \"just in case\", with a pompous attitude, and with the requirement (warning, a nerve has been touched!) I have experience working with and researching programs that aid the poor and working poor. I hated this book. The only role it could play is as a weak talking piece for starting up serious discussion about the struggles and needs of the poor. Barbara Ehrenreich may have stepped outside her comfort zone and into the world of the working poor, but she did it with an educated background, with money \"just in case\", with a pompous attitude, and with the requirement of a car at all times. She also did it without many barriers that are very real to the working poor: -a child or children -childcare costs -low IQ or other learning disabilities -an alcohol or drug addiction -an abusive partner -lack of transportation -English as a second language -bad credit -felony convictions -health disparities -no high school diploma or GED -experience as an orphan or in the foster care system -homelessness -no positive support system (like her husband and editor) -depression, PTSD, schizophremia or other mental illness -lack of drive or self-worth, hopelessness -angst for \"the system\" -lack of basic computer skills -lack of interpersonal skills -lack of personal hygiene or simple lack of clean clothing I live in Minneapolis, where she lived when the experiment ended. In the book she says she was struggling to find housing, but she was postive that she would find it. Fantastic! I hope the housing she would of found had heat paid, because heating costs will break even a middle-class budget when the weather drops well below zero. ...more The two sentence summary of this book is: PhD and respected writer decides to find out how the other two-thirds live. To this end she goes undercover as an unskilled laborer at three minimum wage jobs (waitress, Wal-mart employee and Merry-Maid) each in a different city, each for one month. Things I liked: The premise. Things I hated: 1. Her shocked tone of discovery. Newsflash! Living on minimum wage is hard/nigh on impossible! Educated people have it pretty easy comparatively! Entry level minimum The two sentence summary of this book is: PhD and respected writer decides to find out how the other two-thirds live. To this end she goes undercover as an unskilled laborer at three minimum wage jobs (waitress, Wal-mart employee and Merry-Maid) each in a different city, each for one month. Things I liked: The premise. Things I hated: 1. Her shocked tone of discovery. Newsflash! Living on minimum wage is hard/nigh on impossible! Educated people have it pretty easy comparatively! Entry level minimum wage work is kind of demeaning! 2. Her colonial-anthropologist-among-the-natives style that came across (to me) as super patronizing. Don't these people understand that easy office jobs are just on the other side of a college degree? Don't they understand history enough to fight for unions? 3. Her total shock that no one found her out as an educated person! Working in a diner in the next town over, she was never recognized! Shock! 4. This mostly just lost her style points, but she made a point to always have a working car (it wasn't HER car, but she rented a working car in every city she went to) and had a thousand (two thousand?) dollars of start-up capital to pay first and last months rent and eat while waiting for a job. I think her cover story (which again, she was hurt when no one asked for/cared about) was that she was a newly divorced former stay at home wife, on her own for the first time- so I guess it's conceivable she would have had a little cushion- but I would have found it much more interesting if she'd actually committed to the premise a little more. Especially because she was there such a short time. I know that working minimum wage jobs isn't fun, but couldn't you commit to more than a month? What do you find out in a month? 5. This is really the one that gets me- at the end of her time with the Merry Maids she \"comes out\" to her co-workers, telling them that really, she's a PhD! And writing a book! The main response is \"So you won't be here to cover your shift tomorrow.\" Once again she is shocked and hurt! But man, if there was ever a teaching moment, she's been working with these women at back-breaking, soul sucking work for no pay and she's surprised that they're worried about how they're going to get though the next day? AGH. (And also, WTF was she spending money on? I'm also a single healthy person with no debt or dependents and a working car, and I spend less than a thousand dollars a month sustaining my life style. I don't think I live THAT cheaply.) It just seemed like she was writing from this privileged bubble of white upper-crust academia that I didn't know existed. She was presenting as astonishing findings what I assume to be facts of life for a majority of people. So. That is why I didn't like this book. My mom, on the other hand, who has actually worked as a waitress to support herself, loved it. ...more I'm going to step on some toes here and I apologize if I do. I AM one of the working poor that she talks about here and I DO believe in pulling myself up and making a better life for myself. But what I want to know is this. Unless you have been where I am, how can you comment? How can you also call her a bleeding heart? Is this a country for the haves only? And the have nots just have not? uhh uhh, I just don't understand. We got an election coming up and some folks are fussing about this countr I'm going to step on some toes here and I apologize if I do. I AM one of the working poor that she talks about here and I DO believe in pulling myself up and making a better life for myself. But what I want to know is this. Unless you have been where I am, how can you comment? How can you also call her a bleeding heart? Is this a country for the haves only? And the have nots just have not? uhh uhh, I just don't understand. We got an election coming up and some folks are fussing about this country even entertaining about health care for EVERY American. So let me ask again, this country is not for the free and brave but for those who just have it? Personally, I found the book factual to a point. On what I make, unless the housing is subsidized, I cannot live there. plain and simple. does that make me proud to say? no, just realistic. You cannot make a living, pay bills and rent and eat on less than $1500 a month much less $1000, unless you really got a little someone to help you here. Her staying in a place didn't seem that realistic to me, although she did make some allowances. but then she had to because after all, you just cannot do it on a minimum wage salary unless you have a roomie or man or both. I have read in Donald Trump and Robert Kiyoski's book that the middle class in this country is shrinking and that we as a people should either stay poor, and that is food for serious thought.FOOTNOTE:I thank each of you whether you were with me or not in this review. that is ok. I never got this MUCH reviews on a book that is interesting to say the least. I am still getting by in this country but Lord knows I am working hard to get away from it. thanks again. ...more Here's a down and dirty assessment of Nickel and Dimed , by Barbara Ehrenreich: First the positive: - Interesting premise: writer decides to try to live on the wages that unskilled workers (waitresses, home/hotel cleaners, department store [Walmart, for instance] clerks) earn to see if she can do it and see if she learns anything in the process. - She exposes some very unethical (even illegal) employer practices such as withholding a worker\u2019s first paycheck until the second pay period. - She notes so Here's a down and dirty assessment of Nickel and Dimed , by Barbara Ehrenreich: First the positive: - Interesting premise: writer decides to try to live on the wages that unskilled workers (waitresses, home/hotel cleaners, department store [Walmart, for instance] clerks) earn to see if she can do it and see if she learns anything in the process. - She exposes some very unethical (even illegal) employer practices such as withholding a worker\u2019s first paycheck until the second pay period. - She notes some of the problems experienced by low-wage workers that aren\u2019t (or may not be) experienced at higher levels of employment (e.g., lack of healthcare benefits, being unable to live in an apartment because of cost-prohibitive security deposits, almost universal drug testing as prerequisite to employment, etc.) - Funny anecdotes about her experiences on \u201cthe other side.\u201d - She appears to have done some outside research besides her own experiences and observations. Then the negative: - The reader recognizes immediately that this writer is a liberal, specifically a bleeding-heart socialist. To those of us on the right, this is a red flag: we know what in the end she\u2019ll advocate. Besides, the dreck that comes from that ideology is just annoying. - She makes comments about the nurturing aspects of smoking that I find vomit-worthy. Part of the whole getting-out-of-poverty thing is making some good choices \u2013 continuing an expensive nicotine habit isn\u2019t one of them. Ms. Ehrenreich breezes past this obvious expense and instead philosophizes about it. Gaack. - Ditto for children. I never buy the whole thing that poor people can\u2019t (read: don\u2019t have the brain-power or self-control to) limit their reproduction. Children are expensive and in having them (in a marriage or not) without thought to all the costs associated with merely keeping them alive, not to mention THEIR future, people are essentially dooming them to the same life and poverty that they currently experience. I mean, if you as a parent don\u2019t have reliable healthcare it\u2019s one thing, but your kids will definitely need it \u2013 so why are you jeopardizing their health? Oh, yeah \u2013 Medicaid. - She has a permissive attitude toward drug use \u2013 and even admits to \u201can indiscretion\u201d of that sort during her experiment. She buys and uses products that mask or flush evidence of the drug use. That whole business is not going to lend credibility to your whole argument \u2013 whatever the argument is. And drugs are an expense. - She always has a car (\u201crent-a-wreck\u201d in her words) during her experiment. Expense. Now, some of the locations she works do demand personal transportation, but she purposely steers clear of big cities with public transportation. Hmm. - She never tries to coordinate/share living arrangements and pool resources. After all, she DOES have her limits in this experiment! - The biggest problem with her experiment is that it is just an experiment \u2013 she can return to her comfy upper middle class life, while demanding that the government do something about the minimum wage and poverty. Yeah, I could go on, but you get the general picture. I would give this read a C+ - readable, but there are some reservations. ...more Ehrenreich, a woman who has a Ph.D., goes \"undercover\" working low-paying jobs to see if one can earn a living with such work in America. One can't. She tries to make ends meet on the following jobs: waitressing, hotel housekeeping, Maid Service, nursing-home attendant, and Wal-Mart employee, often working two jobs at a time. This shocking expos\u00e9 reveals the horrific conditions that the \"working poor\" toil under. Well, at least they're shocking to someone who's never had to struggle to make ends me Ehrenreich, a woman who has a Ph.D., goes \"undercover\" working low-paying jobs to see if one can earn a living with such work in America. One can't. She tries to make ends meet on the following jobs: waitressing, hotel housekeeping, Maid Service, nursing-home attendant, and Wal-Mart employee, often working two jobs at a time. This shocking expos\u00e9 reveals the horrific conditions that the \"working poor\" toil under. Well, at least they're shocking to someone who's never had to struggle to make ends meet and put food on the table. There's always this niggling knowledge that Ehrenreich can pick up and leave at any time - that this is still an experiment to her. Of course, people who work two minimum-wage jobs and live out of their car do not have this luxury. However, I feel like Ehrenreich realizes this and is respectful of it, not that she's looking down on the poor or \"slumming it.\" There's no way, for example, to pretend to be a waitress: the food either gets to the table or not. People know me as a waitress, a cleaning person, a nursing home aide, or a retail clerk not because I acted like one but because that's what I was , at least for the time I was with them. This book could be brutal and very depressing. Luckily for the reader, Ehrenreich has a wonderful sense of humor that she employs to great effect - and this takes some of the edge off of the horrible things she is relating. There were some folks - mainly managers and bosses - who I wanted to punch in the face after reading this. It's obscene what some corporations get away with and how greatly they take advantage of and exploit their workers. Of course, people in third-world countries probably think the life Ehrenreich is describing is 'easy living.' So it's all relative, I guess. Ehrenreich frequently employed fantasies and daydreams to get her through the hell of her daily life during this time period. For example, when she was a waitress: Sometimes I play with the fantasy that I am a princess who, in penance for some tiny transgression, has undertaken to feed each of her subjects by hand. Or when she is a maid, she thinks about some rich people who pay to go to monasteries and do labor to 'cleanse their soul.' But she almost breaks when she sees people in real, human suffering around her, and realizes she is helpless to do anything to ease their suffering. One of the most crushing scenes in the book is when a teammate maid that she works with breaks her ankle on the job and just keeps cleaning, hobbling around the house and refusing to go to the hospital because she can't afford not to work. It's heart-rending, and Ehrenreich goes through so many emotions, unsure of what to do - or even what she CAN do. There's a lot of this, but that section was the hardest to read about. Ehrenreich is stunned when she realizes that people who work two jobs and have zero luxuries are still in poverty and can't even afford food and shelter. I thought the book was amazing, and highly recommend it for everybody who is an American or lives in America. Or is interested in America. Whether you are nodding your head because you know what it's like to live in this kind of hell, or whether you - like Ehrenreich - are shocked and appalled by what is really going on with the poor in America - this book is a great read. This is definitely a book I will buy - I had post-it notes on almost every single page, and it was brimming with truth, humor, and emotion. P.S. She only touches briefly on sexual harassment, but let me add as a personal aside that there are thousands of women who just 'grin and bear it' and have no recourse but to tolerate this kind of crap on the job because they feel that they have no other choice. Despite what the media would have you believe, not many people care and certainly no one is going to rescue you or take you out of that situation. It is SO damaging and humiliating and degrading and tons of women are just stuck with these kind of working conditions. P.P.S. Again, Ehrenreich only briefly touches on this - but the food provided to the poor by food pantries is NOT fresh fruits and vegetables and healthy stuff. It really grates my cheese when people start hating on fat people of any class, but ESPECIALLY when they are poor people. When my friend (who is morbidly obese) was raising her five kids as a single mom and living on welfare, working two jobs and struggling every day to make ends meet went to the food pantry she was invariably presented with doughnuts, bread, cookies, refried beans, etc. etc. etc. That's just what was available/what was donated - and, like Ehrenreich mentions - many poor people do NOT have refrigerators or freezers to keep more perishable food fresh. The idea that my friend was a.) raising her 5 children, as a single mother b.) working, and c.) trying to educate herself in order to get a better job WHILE facing hatred, prejudice, and judgment for being obese just makes me BEYOND FURIOUS. Really so, so angry. Ehrenreich herself, being a thin woman, exhibits signs of fat-hatred in this book, ranting internally against \"corpulent Minnesotans\" and bemoaning fat people for being a burden on her and society. I didn't like this. Ehrenreich's thinness and how it helps her in this world is never mentioned, but let me tell you - I think it helped her A LOT and that things would have been vastly different if she were obese and looking for work/performing the same jobs. It would have been eviscerating. P.P.P.S. This is mentioned in passing a few times, but it is SUPER-IMPORTANT to remember that Ehrenreich is white and a native English speaker. She would be living on a lower level of service hell if these things were not true. ... Of course, if she HAD gone into all this stuff, the book would be about 500 pages and not a quick, occasionally funny read. And it's important that this read comes off as \"quick and sometimes funny\" because this is an important message that needs to be received by as many Americans as possible. And non-Americans, for that matter. RE-READ: 01/20/2016 Everyone needs to read this. So relevant, so important. ...more Very quick explanation of the premise of this one: a woman, who is a writer/journalist, is talking to her publisher about what she wants to write about next and says, \u201csomeone ought to write a book about how hard it is to get by on the minimum wage in America.\u201d The publisher says, \u201cOkey-dokey (the book is set in the US so I\u2019m trying to give you a feeling of verisimilitude) you\u2019ve hired.\u201d (High fives all around) Before I started this book I really worried. I mean, I\u2019m a bit of a worrier anyway \u2013 b Very quick explanation of the premise of this one: a woman, who is a writer/journalist, is talking to her publisher about what she wants to write about next and says, \u201csomeone ought to write a book about how hard it is to get by on the minimum wage in America.\u201d The publisher says, \u201cOkey-dokey (the book is set in the US so I\u2019m trying to give you a feeling of verisimilitude) you\u2019ve hired.\u201d (High fives all around) Before I started this book I really worried. I mean, I\u2019m a bit of a worrier anyway \u2013 but mostly I worried that this would be the sort of book that my mother would hate. The sort of book my mother hates is the sort of book that is written by someone she calls \u2018middle class\u2019 (actually, she would probably call them middle-class twits) and these people would then presume to be able to write about what my mum would call \u2018the working class\u2019. These people, these \u2018middle-class book writing types\u2019 basically give my mother the shits. It is nothing personal, you understand \u2013 it is much more intense than the merely personal. So, it was with gritted teeth that I started this one. I\u2019m glad to report that not only did I really love this book, I even think my mum would enjoy it. First of all, Barbara recognises that she is basically an impostor. She recognises that her \u2018experiment\u2019 is really only going to be just that \u2013 I mean, she is not going to literally endanger her life, health or wellbeing just to make a point. All the same \u2013 this is the sort of reality TV program that would never make it to television. Particularly not in the USA. That fact is something that really struck me while reading this book \u2013 I mean, even before she mentioned it herself. Early in the book she compares herself to Upstairs Downstairs \u2013 that is, a British television show about class distinctions. I thought it was very interesting that she had to rely on a British show for a cultural reference to the \u2018working class\u2019. Later she points out that working class people may well exist in America \u2013 but they definitely don\u2019t exist on American television. I couldn\u2019t help reflect that films like Dockers, Billy Elliot (particularly the themes around the strike \u2013 but also the themes of homosexuality), Brassed Off, or Kes simply could never be made in America. Isn\u2019t that incredibly sad? Now, my dear friend Wendy told me once that in some states the minimum wage can be \u2018discounted\u2019 if people earn \u2018tips\u2019. It took me a while to believe I had understood what she was saying, but if I\u2019d read this book when I\u2019d first intended to read it \u2013 when it first came out \u2013 I\u2019d have known this already. Tipping is something I find quite repulsive. I hate everything about it \u2013 but then, I don\u2019t like watching dogs beg for food, so I guess getting people to beg in much the same way is only going to make matters worse. What do you think it is about America \u2013 I mean, the land that is supposed to believe in equality of opportunity and democracy \u2013 that somehow encourages so many people to get off on making people beg and demean themselves? The discussion in this book about the Maids (house cleaners) is illustrative of this. Companies even advertise that they force their workers to clean floors on their hands and knees. I remember my mother talking about a great-auntie of mine who worked for some rich bastard in Belfast. He would expect her to scrub the street in front of his house on her hands and knees. I believe she ended up not being able to walk. Like I said, hard to see how anyone could get off on this sort of humiliation. I believe in the value of labour \u2013 that people are better off if they can work and if their work can be valued. I believe we are social creatures and that we only feel true self-worth if we believe we are making a real contribution to the society we live in. So, when we create an underclass of untouchables, a caste that must work themselves into ill-health and who never have any hope of being able to make ends meet or of getting out of poverty \u2013 then that is a choice that we make and one that says as much about us as people as it says about us as a society. This book doesn\u2019t offer simple solutions \u2013 in fact, besides her suggesting that people join together in Trade Unions and find ways to improve their pay and conditions, she makes virtually no suggestions at all. Even this is not presented as a panacea. If anything she worries that anger and resentment will build to the point where it will become unstoppable. The pre-employment tests given to people applying for jobs are particularly evil and in Australia would probably be illegal. Now, this is really saying something. We have just had the most reprehensible and obnoxiously rightwing government imaginable but even they would have found reason to pause over the explicit anti-trade union discrimination that seems a common place in these employment tests. It is hard to imagine the dice being more brutally loaded against these people. The most memorable line in this book for me was the little girl who pointed to a black or Latino child (I can\u2019t remember which now) and said, \u201cLook mommy, a baby maid\u201d. Aren\u2019t societies with caste systems so terribly interesting? This book constantly reminded me of Margaret Atwood \u2013 there was something about the voice, something about the themes, something about the tone. In fact, think of a non-fiction book written by Atwood and this might well be the book you would end up with. This book isn\u2019t nearly as bitter and twisted as this review might make it sound \u2013 I\u2019m happy to admit that this is a subject which makes me quite bitter and twisted. Parts of the book were very moving and other bits very funny. She has a lovely way about her \u2013 I\u2019m particularly fond of self-deprecation, I find it an incredibly attractive feature. I also find intelligent women nearly completely irresistible. That she is both of these had me falling helplessly (and perhaps even a little pathetically) in love. Barbara produces a list of reasons why the US character would allow this mistreatment of such a large section of its citizenry to exist. All the usual suspects end up on the list \u2013 you know, US obsession with \u2018success\u2019 and the tendency to blame \u2018failure\u2019 on the individual and so on. But one of the things I kept thinking was the way American humour so often seems to come down to a degrading string of insults. Humiliation and insults do seem to play an interesting role in the American psyche and this had me wondering if this is part of the reason why tipping is so embraced there while here in Australia we have no idea what to do in \u2018tipping situations\u2019. Before I get flamed \u2013 Australia is just as bad, one would only need to go to Bali for proof of that, and we also treat single mothers, Aboriginals, selected migrants and an endless string of others with utter contempt and loathing. I\u2019m more interested in why \u2013 in a country that believes it is self-evident that all people are born equal \u2013 that such self-evident inequality of treatment could be so seemingly blindly tolerated. But then, as Barbara points out \u2013 the fundamentalist Christians she has contact with also seem to exhibit the exact opposite of what one would take their core beliefs to be. What would Jesus do? From the behaviour of his followers one can only suspect he would do the complete opposite of the stuff he said in his Sermon on the Mount. This is a wonderfully thought-provoking book and one that I enjoyed very much. ...more When this book came out, I was working in a busy bookstore in a fairly small town. We had a stack of them at the counter, and I read bits on my breaks. While I was glad to see a popular book addressing the problems of the working poor, I couldn't help but feel like she'd taken a vacation in my life and then made a bunch of money writing a book about it, something she could only have achieved because she had already been in a position of privilege. Your average house cleaner, lacking an advanced When this book came out, I was working in a busy bookstore in a fairly small town. We had a stack of them at the counter, and I read bits on my breaks. While I was glad to see a popular book addressing the problems of the working poor, I couldn't help but feel like she'd taken a vacation in my life and then made a bunch of money writing a book about it, something she could only have achieved because she had already been in a position of privilege. Your average house cleaner, lacking an advanced degree and a publishing advance to live on while writing, couldn't have written it. And while it's unarguably a Good Thing to have anyone speak up for the voiceless masses, did the low-paid workers of America get anything tangible out of it? At any rate, I was standing at the counter one night when a well-dressed couple came in. The woman pointed at the book with excitement. \"Look, honey, that's the book!\" she said. \"The one where she took all those terrible jobs! I heard she even worked as a WAITRESS!\" Her tone expressed incredulous horror. Then, in unison, they both froze and ever so slowly looked up at me. I had on my best customer-service poker face, but they looked mortified and fled without buying anything. I've had a lingering dislike for the book ever since. ...more I wanted to like this book. I thought the premise was fantastic. But overall, as someone who actually has lived on minimum wage (even supporting a child on minimum wage back when minimum wage was scary low), this book comes up short in several ways. First of all, Barbara Ehrenreich has a horribly privileged, ivory tower view of how poor people must live. While she does talk to some people who are scraping by, she assumes the majority of poor people make the same crummy decisions as the few to who I wanted to like this book. I thought the premise was fantastic. But overall, as someone who actually has lived on minimum wage (even supporting a child on minimum wage back when minimum wage was scary low), this book comes up short in several ways. First of all, Barbara Ehrenreich has a horribly privileged, ivory tower view of how poor people must live. While she does talk to some people who are scraping by, she assumes the majority of poor people make the same crummy decisions as the few to whom she spoke. Throughout her anthropologic immersion into semi-poverty, she makes choices that the savvy poor (of whom there are many!) would just never make. She eats out instead of picking up beans and rice at the bulk section of the supermarket. She rents a pay-by-the-week hotel instead of asking around for a roommate. It's true that people do make these choices, but the only folks I know in my town who chose the roach motel route were also doing meth or had lousy rental references from too many parties or property damage. I just think this could've been done much, much better, and it was disappointing. It's sort of like the movie Crash, which I also disliked intensely. A book (or movie) with a message shouldn't bash you over the head with the message. It doesn't need to be over the top to make a point, which can actually turn the reader (viewer) off enough that the message is lost. ...more If you're looking for socialist propaganda - full of rhetorical tricks and short on evidence, then this is the book for you. If, however, you're hoping for an unbiased treatment of the life of the poor, a reasonable economic/policy analysis of poverty, or any sort of insight into American culture, then this book will be profoundly disappointing. There are some interesting issues covered, such as wage inequalities and the plight of the urban poor, but that's really all I can say in its favor. The If you're looking for socialist propaganda - full of rhetorical tricks and short on evidence, then this is the book for you. If, however, you're hoping for an unbiased treatment of the life of the poor, a reasonable economic/policy analysis of poverty, or any sort of insight into American culture, then this book will be profoundly disappointing. There are some interesting issues covered, such as wage inequalities and the plight of the urban poor, but that's really all I can say in its favor. The author early on gives up any illusion of maintaining journalistic impartiality. She interprets all behavior of corporations, managers and employers in the least charitable way possible - often straining credibility. Further, she shows hidden disdain for the poor as well - insinuating that the only reason the poor might take pride in their work is because they've been duped by corporate interests, and denying the possibility that the poor might find any value in their jobs beyond their paychecks. The author ignores economic realities and the subtleties inherent in an interdependent system like the American Economy and puts forth ludicrously simplistic arguments of what American policy towards the poor should be. It ranges from annoying to infuriating, and is almost certainly not worth the bother of reading. ...more I wanted to hate this book. I bought it with the intention of hating it. Overeducated liberal writer slumming it on minimum wage, to prove what? That minimum wage is not livable? Well who ever said it was? And looking at the reviews it\u2019s clear this book is a Rorschach test for poverty, anyone poor enough to relate to the indignities she describes will invariable feel some resentment at the minimum wage martyr act, flagellating herself with your everyday life. And how easy it was for me especiall I wanted to hate this book. I bought it with the intention of hating it. Overeducated liberal writer slumming it on minimum wage, to prove what? That minimum wage is not livable? Well who ever said it was? And looking at the reviews it\u2019s clear this book is a Rorschach test for poverty, anyone poor enough to relate to the indignities she describes will invariable feel some resentment at the minimum wage martyr act, flagellating herself with your everyday life. And how easy it was for me especially to seethe with anger when the author repeatedly names my job alone as the one position she would simply not consider, no reason ever given, simply that working at the front desk of a hotel was out of the question, and what a shame as I guarantee that it would have provided innumerable opportunities for the sort of dead-end job self-abasement for which she was searching. Ironically I read this entire book at work over the past two days, on U of M graduation weekend, where more than any other time we are just overflowing with demanding self-satisfied yuppies, so needless to say I kept the cover faced down to avoid ironic pity smirks from smug assholes, in retrospect I should have flaunted the cover openly, hoping liberal guilt might bring in some tips. That the people who actually work these jobs will find Ehrenreich insulting, na\u00efve, and condescending is a given. In the beginning I certainly did, but in the author\u2019s defense at no time did she ever claim this was anything but an experiment, she never pretends to be anything she is not, not to the readers at least. So what\u2019s the alternative then? Actual housekeepers and salesclerks rarely being offered book deals while lunching at French restaurants with editors, the alternative is this book doesn\u2019t get written and this conversation doesn\u2019t happen. Her goal of illustrating the vast income inequality and the nearly inescapable cycle of poverty is laudable and something I agree wholeheartedly with. In the end her failure is her reluctance to follow much of her thoughts to their logical conclusions; she constantly touches on these very powerful moments that ultimately are wasted because she fails to recognize them when they come. In the end I think the scathing reviewer comments at the author\u2019s expense are misplaced. An enjoyable read but sadly it misses its mark quite often. What she does get right is how the criminalization of marijuana is a means of controlling the population. With the ubiquitous drug test favored by low wage employers geared solely towards marijuana, making one feel like a criminal over a little bit of herb, the result is dehumanizing applicants even before their first day. She routinely acknowledges that the only way she was able to fulfill the demands of these jobs is relying on the store good health built up over a lifetime of upper middle class living, not to mention starting out with a car and sum of money not available to her coworkers. She points out how any health or financial setbacks would ruin her completely. I would have liked to see more of a connection made between our demands for cheaper and cheaper goods and the cost paid by the working poor in America and beyond. And that the failure of public services in America to provide even the most basic standard of living are always paid for in the end by the cost of incarcerating more of our citizens than any western nation. A number of times she touches on the deep ontological angst that come from living in such insecurity, but as an outsider looking in fails to really capture its essence. And her assumptions that because she doesn\u2019t see visible anger that people aren\u2019t angry? They are. But simultaneously there is a real disconnect among the working poor who have been sold on the \u2018American Dream\u2019 fantasy and reality. The ugly result of people taking this myth too seriously are quite apparent in the most hideous aspects of the Republican Party for sure, but less obviously so in how the author had so thoroughly disassociated herself the working poor she is only one generation removed from. At the heart of this book is the impossibility of existing in such manner, but yet people do. People live their whole lives that way. I read a Chekov short story at the same time, of exiles coping with life in Siberia. One man is unable to deal with his losses and yet still makes one attempt after another to carve out a life for himself continually repeated his personal motto \u201cEven in Siberia people live.\u201d Another man gives up, asking for nothing and so wanting for nothing. At the end a judgment is made by a third character against the man who wants nothing, as it\u2019s better to be miserable than to feel nothing. The story ends with everyone crying themselves to sleep. Ehrenreich should have read that story; it speaks more to the condition of the working poor than her book does. Even in America people live. ...more As someone who grew up as part of the \"working poor,\" I have had all of these kinds of jobs myself at one time or another. Most of my family members still do. So for me, Nickel and Dimed was kind of a big \"DUH.\" I mean, seriously, does any of this come as a surprise to anyone? Did anyone ever really think it was easy to make ends meet off of a low/minimum wage job? It's a preposterous idea. In my opinion, Ehrenreich's writing has a patronizing undertone, and seeks to make the reader feel pity for As someone who grew up as part of the \"working poor,\" I have had all of these kinds of jobs myself at one time or another. Most of my family members still do. So for me, Nickel and Dimed was kind of a big \"DUH.\" I mean, seriously, does any of this come as a surprise to anyone? Did anyone ever really think it was easy to make ends meet off of a low/minimum wage job? It's a preposterous idea. In my opinion, Ehrenreich's writing has a patronizing undertone, and seeks to make the reader feel pity for the poor, helpless low-wage workers that she somehow manages to dehumanize in the process. It's not a very accurate portrayal of the ingenuity and strength that is takes for people to survive under these circumstances. I'm no fan of pity parties and I think it's a very one dimensional picture of the subject that she paints. She also doesn't do much to analyze the broader issue and she doesn't offer any alternatives, solutions, or new ideas to deal with the problem. It was kind of like she wrote the book out of her own bourgeoisie guilt or something and just wanted to give herself a big old pat on the back for understanding poor people. ...more A classic now in the field, and I've long used an excerpt from this in my Intro. Sociology reader for our week on Poverty in the U.S. Still, I remind students that this is the only author we read that doesn't have the \"street cred\" of a \"real\" sociologist, some \"union card\" (Ph.D., mostly) as a behavioral or social scientist, or social theorist or philosopher of some sort, as Ehrenreich is a...gasp....journalist! (I'm reminded of perhaps my own bias about this as I was critical of the layperson A classic now in the field, and I've long used an excerpt from this in my Intro. Sociology reader for our week on Poverty in the U.S. Still, I remind students that this is the only author we read that doesn't have the \"street cred\" of a \"real\" sociologist, some \"union card\" (Ph.D., mostly) as a behavioral or social scientist, or social theorist or philosopher of some sort, as Ehrenreich is a...gasp....journalist! (I'm reminded of perhaps my own bias about this as I was critical of the layperson sociology that Vance did in Hillbilly Elegy: A Memoir of a Family and Culture in Crisis .) Still, our own experiences are all we have, and both are attempts at a more objective, systematic study and explanation for the lives of the poor in the U.S. Even as a \"reporter\" or social critic Ehrenreich uses the social science (anthropological, in fact) technique of \"participant observation\" as she does \"undercover\" as a poor person in a number of jobs typical for the poor: dead-end, low-pay, no benefits, no security, harassment (including sexual harassment) and mistreatment to be expected, etc.. As Manuel Castells, the Spanish sociologist of globalism noted way back in The Urban Question: A Marxist Approach in our cities the worst, most dirty jobs will always be \"held in trust\" disproportionately for women and people of color (interesting he didn't name immigrants, but I suspect he meant them, too) and these are the types of jobs someone posing as one with no marketable skills gets such as a hotel maid and in food services, as Ehrenreich did. Students in my classroom get their middle-class validations of the poor as lazy and of circumstances most entirely of their own making blown up by this reading, and I think it does create authentic empathy for those less fortunate (of course, many of my students come from lives with these types of jobs, and even work them themselves) but also an understanding of how our culture is predicated on somebody doing the \"dirty work\". Students are particularly taken, and it turns into a great conversation on censorship and parental rights and ideas of \"protecting\" youth form certain ideas when I share with them the power of this book, as detailed in the links below from six years ago. (In short, a \"Tea Party\" legislator in NH was horrified when his son brought home a copy of this as a required course read in school, and they both agreed it was \"un-American\" to study poverty in the U.S.. The principal (surprisingly, doesn't always happen!) backed up the teacher that the students had to read it, and the legislator pulled his kid out of the school (who cares) but actually filed a bill with the House that would have allowed a parent to disallow a school from forcing their child to read any book or curriculum that they found offensive. (Luckily, the bill didn't make it out of committee.) There is also coverage of this by FOX news, although I can't bear to look at it as I know my eyes will burn from the comments section... http://www.slate.com/blogs/xx_factor/... http://www.rightwingwatch.org/post/nh... http://parenting.blogs.nytimes.com/20... ...more WAA, WAAAA, WAAAAAAA...boo hooooo What was the publisher thinking? Letting a biology Ph.d write an economics book. There are so many economic inaccuracies in this book they are too numerous to mention. The most important theory she mangles is that she thinks wages she should be raised even if there are enough employees to hire at piss-poor wages. She believes that (she eludes to it, but never makes the point clearly) it is the employers responsibility to provide enough wage to make sure everyone WAA, WAAAA, WAAAAAAA...boo hooooo What was the publisher thinking? Letting a biology Ph.d write an economics book. There are so many economic inaccuracies in this book they are too numerous to mention. The most important theory she mangles is that she thinks wages she should be raised even if there are enough employees to hire at piss-poor wages. She believes that (she eludes to it, but never makes the point clearly) it is the employers responsibility to provide enough wage to make sure everyone is adaquately housed and has non-worker's comp health care...and, if really considerate of his workers, a car. Well, what kind of person gets hired for jobs that are low-paying. Ones who need a job! What kind of person gets hired for jobs that are higher paying...ones who have prepared for those jobs. It's kinda like Social Security. It was never set up so people could live on it. It was a supplement. These jobs are not careers, but I think many of the people who work them think they are. You better get the employer's buy-in on that theory before you start working in these fields. Is that the employee's problem about this misconception?the employers? the goverments (yikes)? society's? The purpose or theme of the book is so unclear that I hope the publisher was not meaning for it to be entertainment...or informative. Was it meant to be a thesis on American economics?? People with low-paying jobs should use this book for warmth...by throwing it in the fire. But maybe IT WAS meant to be entertaining and informative. Then the publisher should have hired someone who is a bit entertaining and/or a little informative. This author writes this as though nobody who lives above the poverty line has worked a job that supplies the wages to live below it. It is a degrading and demeaning book to everyone who has ever held one of these jobs...and to the ones who currently work these jobs. ...more I read this in honor of Labor Day. \"Nickel and Dimed\" has been on my radar for years. It's considered a modern classic in several disciplines, including journalism, sociology and economics. Starting in 1998, Barbara Ehrenreich spent several months working low-wage jobs in different cities around the United States in an attempt to experience what it was like to be one of America's working poor. She wondered how anyone could possibly live on wages available to the unskilled, which at the time was a I read this in honor of Labor Day. \"Nickel and Dimed\" has been on my radar for years. It's considered a modern classic in several disciplines, including journalism, sociology and economics. Starting in 1998, Barbara Ehrenreich spent several months working low-wage jobs in different cities around the United States in an attempt to experience what it was like to be one of America's working poor. She wondered how anyone could possibly live on wages available to the unskilled, which at the time was about $7 an hour. In the spirit of science, she set some rules for herself: First, she couldn't fall back on skills derived from her advanced education; second, she had to try to keep the job and not blow off the work; third, she had to find cheap accommodations in each city. When applying for jobs, she used her real name and she described herself as \"a divorced homemaker reentering the workforce after many years.\" She did not put her Ph.D. on the job application, however, and instead only listed three years of college. She did allow herself the use of a car, and she ruled out homelessness. \"The idea was to spend a month in each setting in see whether I could find a job and earn, in that time, the money to pay a second month's rent. If I was paying rent by the week and ran out of money I would simply declare the project at an end; no shelters or sleeping in cars for me ... So this is not a story of some death-defying 'undercover' adventure. Almost anyone could do what I did -- look for jobs, work those jobs, try to make ends meet. In fact, millions of Americans do it every day, and with a lot less fanfare and dithering.\" Barbara started in Key West, Florida, waitressing at two different restaurants. In Portland, Maine, she toiled as a maid. In Minneapolis, Minnesota, she was a \"sales associate\" at a Wal-Mart. In each place, she worked hard and tried to be a helpful and cheerful coworker. Each job had its share of frustrations, and in each job she got a sense of what it felt like to be an \"invisible\" worker, sometimes degraded and dehumanized. Besides finding a job, she also had to find affordable housing, which was difficult even with the small amount of starter money that she allowed herself. And if the housing was affordable, it wasn't necessary safe. She stayed at a weekly rental place in the Minneapolis area that she described as the worst motel in the country, and it cost her $255 a week. It did not have secure windows or a bolt on the door, and she slept anxiously, on high alert, every night she was there. \"Sometime around four in the morning it dawns on me that it's not just that I'm a wimp. Poor women -- perhaps especially single ones and even those who are just temporarily living among the poor for whatever reason -- really do have more to fear than women who have houses with double locks and alarm systems and husbands or dogs. I must have known this theoretically or at least heard it stated, but now for the first time the lesson takes hold.\" While the book sounds grim, it was an engrossing read. It was fascinating to read about Barbara's waitress experience, her housecleaning and maid service, and the weeks she spent at Wal-Mart.* I raced through it in a little over a day, impressed with the writing and reporting. I was actually a bit envious and wish I had written it. After her experiment ended, she wrote an evaluation for herself, and while she gave herself good marks for working hard, she admitted she did not do as well in terms of surviving life in general, such as eating and having a decent place to stay. \"The problem goes behind my personal failings and miscalculations. Something is wrong, very wrong, when a single person in good health, a person who in addition possesses a working car, can barely support herself by the sweat of her brow. You don't need a degree in economics to see that wages are too low and rents too high.\" The edition I read was published in 2011, a 10th anniversary reprint, which included a new afterword by the author. She wrote that the situation has become worse for the working poor, especially since the global recession that started in 2008: \"If we want to reduce poverty, we have to stop doing the things that make people poor and keep them that way. Stop underpaying people for the jobs they do. Stop treating working people as potential criminals and let them have the right to organize for better wages and working conditions. Stop the institutional harassment of those who turn to the government for help or find themselves destitute in the streets. Maybe, as so many Americans seem to believe today, we can't afford the kinds of public programs that would genuinely alleviate poverty -- though I would argue otherwise. But at least we should decide, as a bare minimum principle, to stop kicking people when they're down.\" There is so much to talk about in this book! I understand why a lot of instructors have made it assigned reading in their classes. It's very discussable and brings up many different issues of poverty, society and economics. I highly recommend it. Low-wage workers of the world, unite! Or something like that. *I had waitressing jobs when I was in high school and college, and that work requires so much energy and effort for so little pay that I swore I would never do it again unless circumstances were really dire. Barbara frequently mentioned how grateful she was that her parents worked so hard to help give her a better life, and I felt a similar gratitude to my parents. ...more So, the author got paid to wait tables in Florida, clean homes in Maine, and organize clothes at Wal-Mart in Minnesota. All right, all of that is completely believable. What's difficult to comprehend is that she also gets paid to write books. She makes a lot of great points, but the style she does it with is totally condescending. She's so pleased with her own concept that she cannot help but remind readers at least every ten or so pages that she's actually very highly educated. \"You might think So, the author got paid to wait tables in Florida, clean homes in Maine, and organize clothes at Wal-Mart in Minnesota. All right, all of that is completely believable. What's difficult to comprehend is that she also gets paid to write books. She makes a lot of great points, but the style she does it with is totally condescending. She's so pleased with her own concept that she cannot help but remind readers at least every ten or so pages that she's actually very highly educated. \"You might think that the tasks of cleaning a house would be easy for someone with a Phd . . .\" Oh really now, would I? She thinks this is some grand undercover scheme and that she's some clever spy and is so excited with her own little game because she really does believe that she is somehow better than the other people working in low wage jobs. \"It's so difficult to believe that these people don't realize I'm actually educated and upper-class.\" The part about \"Barbara\" versus her mean lower-class Wal-Mart alter-ego \"Barb\" is outright offensive. \"I'm really a better person than this.\" Okay Barbara, just keep telling yourself that. It's liberal elitism at its most annoying. I want someone else to write this book with all the same points about worker justice, except the new version of this book needs to also be well-written in addition to making a bunch of good points. ...more Ergh. I read this book while in grad school, taking an anthropology class. I was also earning a whopping $5.83 an hour, and reading this book just made me grind my teeth. Totally fatuous piece of crap. It STILL ticks me off. I felt like she was so patronizing and rude. It seemed like yet another case of some stupid rich white person talking about the plight of the poor and the downtrodden, all while doing absolutely NOTHING to help alleviate it. Not to mention whining about how hard it is. URGH. Gr Ergh. I read this book while in grad school, taking an anthropology class. I was also earning a whopping $5.83 an hour, and reading this book just made me grind my teeth. Totally fatuous piece of crap. It STILL ticks me off. I felt like she was so patronizing and rude. It seemed like yet another case of some stupid rich white person talking about the plight of the poor and the downtrodden, all while doing absolutely NOTHING to help alleviate it. Not to mention whining about how hard it is. URGH. Great. I'm so happy that Ehrenreich lived as a poor slob for a few months and then went back to her well-off, wasteful, middle-class lifestyle having learned nothing other than how to write sensational stuff to sell books. Yay. Go you, Barbara. ...more DISCLAIMER: This is my rant on the \u201cclassic Marxist rant\u201d by Barbara Ehrenreich in the form of Nickel and Dimed. REALLY. I am not saying that we should not help poor people. I am mostly just annoyed by the author. If my political ranting will bother you, please don't read this. AND if you do, you are not allowed to think less of me. You may disagree, but know that I actually am a nice, caring, empathetic person. :) Unfortunately, Ehrenreich did not present much shocking or new information in her DISCLAIMER: This is my rant on the \u201cclassic Marxist rant\u201d by Barbara Ehrenreich in the form of Nickel and Dimed. REALLY. I am not saying that we should not help poor people. I am mostly just annoyed by the author. If my political ranting will bother you, please don't read this. AND if you do, you are not allowed to think less of me. You may disagree, but know that I actually am a nice, caring, empathetic person. :) Unfortunately, Ehrenreich did not present much shocking or new information in her book. Even if she had, her Marxist cynicism and naive hypocrisy overshadowed her message. Of course, if anyone had been placed in such a situation, she would have been appalled by the tremendous difficulty of the way the poor are forced to live. But Ehrenreich\u2019s obnoxious inclination to think anyone in a managerial position is malicious and purposefully cruel was overbearing. The managers were not in a much better position than those under them, and they have to do a \u201cmeaningless\u201d job as well. She even began realizing that she was becoming uncontrollably irate at any moment\u2019s notice. How can she criticize others for acting the exact way she felt because of the degrading circumstances they share? Not to mention, she pretty much had been acting this prejudiced way before this epiphany, but earlier she directed it at those in higher positions instead of her equals. Also, let\u2019s go into her Communist ideals (even though she sort of denied being a Marxist, she quoted him a few times and paraphrased Mao\u2019s words). She is advocating (by implication) a system way worse than the Goliath that is Wal-Mart. She finds it utterly appalling that people have some of their basic rights taken away by agreeing to work for certain companies. (By the way, have you ever worked for a corporation? That's what they do.) However, you have absolutely no rights in a Communist society. Remember Animal Farm? After a while, the pigs look exactly like the human men they had replaced in their rebellion. Plus, she\u2019s complaining about the rich 20% at the top and wanting to help the poor 20% on the bottom, completely ignoring the 60% in between. She just wants to replace the top with the bottom, and then where would we be? Bingo! The same place. Ehrenreich means basically an \u201cinherited kingdom.\u201d Ironic that she feels that the poor should just naturally inherit the country. She wants her kingdom to be like the socialist/communist world because she feels that the United States will not take care of the proletariat. But I don\u2019t know if 80% should give up their rights so that the 20% can rule (oh, and kill everyone else in the process--that's what Communists do). As far as her complaints about \u201crights\u201d are concerned, let\u2019s look at her previous life. She is UPPER middle class, which is not nearly the same as the average American. Her job is as a journalist, free-lance, I believe. So, she does not have the average structured job, and her job is to speak her mind and say whatever she wants however she wants. Of course she\u2019s going to be upset that she can\u2019t curse in front of customers. Some customers may be offended by such language, but she can\u2019t see that; she only knows that she wants to say the f-word on the job and she can\u2019t. Heaven forbid. She seemed to be shocked by the fact that her employers didn\u2019t want her standing around talking on the job either. I understand that we should allow people to be human and enjoy working with each other. I like to see employees joke with each other and get along, but I don\u2019t like to need help and can\u2019t get any because some \u201cassociates\u201d are standing around talking and ignoring their customers. I don't agree with the Wal-Mart \"time theft\" idea, but she does need to realize she's at work. I feel that the story would have been much more compelling and upsetting if she had just followed a few of the women with whom she worked. Her story just wasn\u2019t interesting. I certainly don\u2019t mean to make light of or ignore such a serious subject, but it could have been done so much better.(Have you seen Morgan Spurlock's 30 Days where he and his girlfriend REALLY live below the poverty line? Now, that's worth seeing.) Also, I would have been interested (and I think it would really have been fair) to give statistics on those living below the poverty line who are on welfare, are illegal immigrants (if they were included), have mental illnesses, etc. Or, I would like to know if that 20% of working poor is all exactly similar to the people has associated with. I just want a complete and honest picture either way so that I\u2019m not wondering what it is. We need to take care of all the people, but we need to know the circumstances. Also, I know that most of the working poor are good, honest, hard-working people, but we know that there are still many who abuse the system, and the way Ehrenreich talks, you\u2019d think that the only ones abusing the system were the managers (\u201cclassic Marxist\u201d attitude). Instead of reading her book, maybe some of the people (managers) should read The Female Advantage and learn some managing skills. :) I also would like to know how raising the minimum wage affects the economy. If it helps fix this problem, great. But it would seem that if we raise the minimum wage, then prices will start going up. I\u2019m no economist, so I wouldn\u2019t know, but I would have liked more information about how to help the problem instead of her ideas about getting thrown in prison for protesting. I will admit that I probably have some prejudice attitudes that she addresses in her book, but I don\u2019t feel that she really proved her point. Eating in a healthier manner and not smoking or drinking are not going to solve the poor\u2019s problems, but when people are counting pennies, every one counts. Ehrenreich said that she never got to the point of eating lentil soup, but if she had, she would have saved money (and it would have been healthier). It seems that, just like everyone else, convenience takes precedence over everything else. In the end, the condition of the working poor is an important issue that we all need to work on and try to find more solutions for. I just don\u2019t agree with the way she thinks and her attitudes about some of the things that she found. This book does have some redeeming qualities, but as I said, she got in the way. ...more I think the entire point of this book was to 'prove' that minimum wage jobs by their very nature and pay scale CANNOT support people, even people with all the advantages she had (and none of the additional disadvantages the poor often have.) I don't see this book as even trying to be any kind of an exhaustive look at all the difficulties facing those truly living in poverty and attempting to get by. What I do see it as is an attempt to prove to middle-income Americans that even with all the benefi I think the entire point of this book was to 'prove' that minimum wage jobs by their very nature and pay scale CANNOT support people, even people with all the advantages she had (and none of the additional disadvantages the poor often have.) I don't see this book as even trying to be any kind of an exhaustive look at all the difficulties facing those truly living in poverty and attempting to get by. What I do see it as is an attempt to prove to middle-income Americans that even with all the benefits she has, even she cannot make it work under the current system, and thus neither would they. I studied poverty and social/welfare systems in university, although I found this book much later, and I have heard people actually using the following arguments to support their views of the Bootstrap theory: \"Well, she would be able to make it work if she didn't have out of wedlock children / wasn't a teen mom\" (-a child or children, -childcare costs) \"Oh, well, he would be able to make it work if he controlled his addiction\" (-an alcohol or drug addiction ) \"Well, she would be able to make it work if she took charge of her life and got out of that relationship\" (-an abusive partner) \"Oh, well, he would be able to make it work if he just took public transportation.\" (-lack of transportation) \"Well, she would be able to make it work if she just learned English\" (-English as a second language) \"Well, it wouldn't be a problem, if he hadn't screwed up in the first place...\" (-bad credit, -felony convictions, -homelessness etc.) \"Oh, well, she would be able to make it work if she just got her GED / took classes.\" (-no high school diploma or GED, -lack of basic computer skills) and so on, ad nauseum. I think her book is very cogent if you read it for what it is - a lesson to all those smug folks out there who think that it is somehow the fault of the person living in poverty because they are not doing/whatever ENOUGH . Those attitudes are out there, all around us, and this book is a tiny way of showing them that those in this situation can never manage to do enough to 'bootstrap' their way out of it under the current system. ...more I picked this up and read it in one day. I also checked the stats for 2007 since the copyright for this was 2001. It really made my blood boil at times and I have \"been there and done that\" as an employee. I am currently looking for work and even with a B.A., good paying jobs with benefits are impossible to find. Everyone who reads this will hopefully understand the \"working poor\" and treat them better. Ehrenreich turns her gimlet eye on the view from the workforce's bottom rung. Determined to fi I picked this up and read it in one day. I also checked the stats for 2007 since the copyright for this was 2001. It really made my blood boil at times and I have \"been there and done that\" as an employee. I am currently looking for work and even with a B.A., good paying jobs with benefits are impossible to find. Everyone who reads this will hopefully understand the \"working poor\" and treat them better. Ehrenreich turns her gimlet eye on the view from the workforce's bottom rung. Determined to find out how anyone could make ends meet on $7 an hour, she left behind her middle class life as a journalist except for $1000 in start-up funds, a car and her laptop computer to try to sustain herself as a low-skilled worker for a month at a time. In 1999 and 2000, Ehrenreich worked as a waitress in Key West, Fla., as a cleaning woman and a nursing home aide in Portland, Maine, and in a Wal-Mart in Minneapolis, Minn. During the application process, she faced routine drug tests and spurious \"personality tests\"; once on the job, she endured constant surveillance and numbing harangues over infractions like serving a second roll and butter. Beset by transportation costs and high rents, she learned the tricks of the trade from her co-workers, some of whom sleep in their cars, and many of whom work when they're vexed by arthritis, back pain or worse, yet still manage small gestures of kindness. Despite the advantages of her race, education, good health and lack of children, Ehrenreich's income barely covered her month's expenses in only one instance, when she worked seven days a week at two jobs (one of which provided free meals) during the off-season in a vacation town. Delivering a fast read that's both sobering and sassy, she gives readers pause about those caught in the economy's undertow, even in good times. ...more Once upon a time, I was a low-wage worker. I worked long hours in retail for too little pay. Even as a store manager, I made about $10,000 per year in the late Eighties. If I hadn't been able to live with my parents, I don't know how I could have been able to afford rent and childcare, much less food on what I made. Because I was working, I didn't qualify for anything like subsidized childcare or food stamps. The waiting list for subsidized housing was endless. Nickel and Dimed On (Not) Getting Once upon a time, I was a low-wage worker. I worked long hours in retail for too little pay. Even as a store manager, I made about $10,000 per year in the late Eighties. If I hadn't been able to live with my parents, I don't know how I could have been able to afford rent and childcare, much less food on what I made. Because I was working, I didn't qualify for anything like subsidized childcare or food stamps. The waiting list for subsidized housing was endless. Nickel and Dimed On (Not) Getting By in America explores the world of low-wage workers in Florida, Maine and Minnesota. Surprisingly enough, Minnesota was the toughest place to get by. It sounded almost as bad as California. While I did find this book to be very readable and was compelled to keep turning the pages, I often found the author's attitude smug and condescending. Her introduction and conclusion were fairly inane and didn't offer any real insight or solutions other than the usual provided by those who neither struggle to keep businesses running with a modest profit nor are caught in the struggle of trying to keep a roof over their heads and food in their stomachs. She also didn't look at the feminist aspect of this. Now, I'm no big feminist, but even I can see that the big problem is that the low-paying jobs the author explored were ones traditionally held by women: waitressing, nursing home aide, maid, and retail worker. These jobs are not only low paying, they don't offer much room for advancement or leave them with much time or energy to pursue other options. I don't think she even noticed that she was surrounded with a lot of women and not very many men who weren't making it in America. ...more Author Barb Ehrenreich's (as in Third Reich) personal politics seem to lie somewhere on the spectrum between Chairman Mao and Charlie Manson. She truly was born too late, missing equally a career dragging rich people from their homes and sending them to prison for no reason, or being a cult follower and writing \"rich pig\" in blood on the freshly painted doors of a California mansion. How on earth did this steaming pile of lunatic hypocrisy ever get published? Unless the publisher read it and ins Author Barb Ehrenreich's (as in Third Reich) personal politics seem to lie somewhere on the spectrum between Chairman Mao and Charlie Manson. She truly was born too late, missing equally a career dragging rich people from their homes and sending them to prison for no reason, or being a cult follower and writing \"rich pig\" in blood on the freshly painted doors of a California mansion. How on earth did this steaming pile of lunatic hypocrisy ever get published? Unless the publisher read it and instantly feared crucifixion from the feel-good people. You know, white Liberals, like the author herself. Her White Liberal Guilt is the size and whiteness of the mariner's albatross. But she lives in Key West, and not in a tar paper shack on the beach. Yet, during her saintly sojourn as a maid, actually berates those who have had the unmitigated gall to escape poverty and live like Rich People. That bothered me a lot. She pokes fun at and analyzes their books. Who the fuck does this twat think she is, pardon my French??? In the course of the book, she manages to make fun of Christians and Christ Himself, rich people, Wal-Mart shoppers, Wal-Mart employees, Latinos, the elderly, and a person in a wheelchair. She openly calls things like Revivals and people-watching the poor her \"entertainment\". She's a complete and utter moron, stating she doesn't care if her coworkers get high in the parking lot at work, or if they steal. Wow. Hopefully, the person doing your lab test to see if you have cancer isn't tweaked, Barb. Or the pilot of your next plane. She thinks quite highly of herself, noting that when asking a sensitive question of a person from Maine she \"takes into account the deep reserve of rural Mainers, as explained to me by a sociologist acquaintance\". Kinda like Margaret Mead in Papua, New Guinea. Are these people a sub-species to her? She's a pro-smoking Atheist with a savior complex. She's a wacko, mistakenly believing that low-wage workers are all there by the Fickle Finger of Fate. No, some are there because of Felonies. Or horrifically stupid choices. Or Saying Yes to Drugs. None of this is ever mentioned. She blanketly assumes all workers (Of the World, Unite)are touched by some higher being, but doesn't believe in one. She thinks her presence is a gift to them, a gift of, of.. Agape! Which is pure love. Not like agave, from which you get pure tequila. And is really love, not to mention a better gift. I just felt bad that at the end, she didn't get to mow down a Czar's children and thus make the world a better place for all those Wal-Mart employees. ...more Raise your hand if you have ever worked a minimum wage job. (It wasn't pleasant, was it?) Now, keep your hand raised if you STILL work a minimum wage job. Whoa. A lot of hands just went down. A LOT. And that is the point Barbara Ehrenreich doesn't entertain. While Nickel and Dimed is interesting and in some ways eye-opening, it isn\u2019t a particularly well-researched or well-argued economic or social commentary. It\u2019s more of a journalism feature with some editorial opinions thrown in. The rhetoric Raise your hand if you have ever worked a minimum wage job. (It wasn't pleasant, was it?) Now, keep your hand raised if you STILL work a minimum wage job. Whoa. A lot of hands just went down. A LOT. And that is the point Barbara Ehrenreich doesn't entertain. While Nickel and Dimed is interesting and in some ways eye-opening, it isn\u2019t a particularly well-researched or well-argued economic or social commentary. It\u2019s more of a journalism feature with some editorial opinions thrown in. The rhetoric is well turned, even poetic in parts, and liable to excite emotion. Sometimes it made me feel guilty, sometimes angered, sometimes compassionate. Barbara Ehrenreich attempts to describe how difficult it is to get by on minimum wage by taking on such jobs herself, but with several advantages \u2013 a car, a $1,500 starting fund, and a lack of dependent children. (I don\u2019t mention her education because she doesn\u2019t use it when applying and higher education may actually prove a disadvantage if you are trying to work minimum wage jobs.) Thus, if it\u2019s difficult for her, you can imagine how difficult it must be for people without those advantages. Her narrative, which is an easy read, does expose readers to the struggles of \u201cwage slaves\u201d as well as to the unique life stories and personalities of the eclectic people she encounters. Her experiment lacks realism, however, not just in the advantages she begins with, but also in the disadvantage she gives herself \u2013 she quits every job after a month and starts another, often requiring a different skill set, from the bottom. This approach ignores two facts. One, that most people don\u2019t drop from the sky into a new town and start from scratch. (She admits this: \u201cTrue, most of my fellow workers are better cushioned than I am; they live with spouses or grown children or they have other jobs.\u201d) Two, the fact that hardly anyone who *sticks with the same job* for more than a year will stay at minimum wage. Small but regular raises are not uncommon, and assistant managers and managers are generally promoted from within the ranks of wage laborers (she does mention this fact, but without much thought about it). A more realistic experiment on getting by would have involved her sharing rent with a friend or relative and working for a full year at one job and then filing for the EITC with her taxes. She never mentions the EITC. She speaks of how hard it was for her to get a food voucher (multiple phone calls, travel, etc.), but nowhere speaks of the largest wealth transfer for the working poor in existence in the U.S., which is obtained annually via a refundable tax. (Unless I missed it?) The thing is, like most writers on the subject of pop econ, she doesn\u2019t make a firm distinction between the temporarily poor and the permanent underclass or delve deeply into what divides the two. We like to talk about \u201cthe bottom 20 percent,\u201d without considering that, of the people *currently* in the bottom twenty percent of income earners, 95% probably will not be there sixteen years from now. (We see this trend when we look at the income of actual individuals over many years rather than merely drawing conclusions from categories, which do not represent people, because people move between categories over a lifetime.) Some people who are minimum wage earners today will even be in the highest quintile sixteen years from now \u2013 more, in fact, than will still be in the bottom quintile. And their children will likely spend less time at minimum wage than they did because they will be given advantages by their parents, as this author was. Ehrenreich mentions her own father who \u201csomehow\u201d went from the mines to the suburbs, but she never seems to consider that his experience might be anything other than exceptional or that it might have something to say about what enables people to escape poverty. The book is primarily focused on the issue of wages. However, raising the minimum wage to a \u201cliving wage\u201d is highly likely to lead to inflation (if not higher unemployment coupled with a larger black market for illegal labor), which will mean that the new living wage will eventually cease to be a living wage and have to be raised again, and the same problem will recur in endless cycle. There are a variety of factors that make it extremely difficult for people to get by on minimum wage beyond the wage itself. The largest contributing factor to poverty \u2013 which we see again in again in the anecdotes in this book - is the disintegration of the family. Divorce, out of wedlock birth, and single parenthood are all expensive propositions. It has been said that the surest way to steadily move upward economically is to get married and, most importantly, to *stay* married, because of the economies of scale and division of labor made possible by marriage and, alternatively, the division of assets and (often) single parenthood resulting from divorce. We also see the effects of the disintegration of extended family, which is a huge contributor to the lack of affordable housing, because multi-family homes become less common. There are obviously many more contributors to poverty, but she focuses primary on hourly wages and on criticizing managers and employers (people who were often themselves low-wage employees five to ten years ago). What would truly be interesting is to see where *all* of the people she worked with during this time are today. How many are still earning minimum wage? How many are assistant managers? How many managers? How many in jail? How many in college? I haven\u2019t read the 10th Anniversary Edition of this book, but I\u2019m guessing she\u2019s going to be talking about people *currently* in this \u201cwage slave\u201d category, and not the same people she worked alongside ten years ago and where they are now. I do not think this book is a \u201cMarxist rant\u201d as so many have categorized it, but it does put forth the standard liberal political solutions to the complex problem of poverty without really examining the long-term effects those policies would have and whether or not they would actually achieve their stated goals. ...more This book highlighted the plight of the working poor and how the way that the poverty level is calculated (including ability to rent a place to live) is not aligned with reality. The book demonstrates the difficulties faced by an uneducated worker -- even one who is willing to work hard -- in housing and feeding himself and family. I believe that the impetus of this book was welfare reform in early 2000 in the US. The reform is to remove subsidies from non-working folks (mainly mom's) and sendin This book highlighted the plight of the working poor and how the way that the poverty level is calculated (including ability to rent a place to live) is not aligned with reality. The book demonstrates the difficulties faced by an uneducated worker -- even one who is willing to work hard -- in housing and feeding himself and family. I believe that the impetus of this book was welfare reform in early 2000 in the US. The reform is to remove subsidies from non-working folks (mainly mom's) and sending them to the workforce. In concept that may sound fair. I believe that the author's case study shows how the worker is never able to get ahead, or just get by -- even when working multiple jobs. The author traveled to live in a few different areas of the U.S. in order to better understand life for the working poor. She had rules that she followed for this experience -- or lines that she wouldn't cross. For instance, she wouldn't be \"homeless\". She started out with some \"seed \" money and brought her car or rented a wreck. She didn't have children that she was responsible or trying to support. She could quit and return to her \"normal\" life when the time was right. This meant that while she \"lived this life\", she really wasn't \"in\" it like the people that she worked side by side with. She worked at several different jobs - waitress, cleaner, Wal-Mart. She lived in FL, ME, MN. Her stories of those locations are both entertaining and sad. The anecdotes of the colleagues that she met on the way are real and heartbreaking. I came away from the book thinking that we as a society could do better. Offer more help (education?) -- house the homeless (many of them have jobs) -- feed the hungry. I will probably get railed as a bleeding heart here, but just had a hard time thinking of this group of people working so hard and having so little -- and also not much to look forward to (hope). Also, something is wrong with how the poverty line is calculated. Why are criteria used that don't relate to what is needed to live? Does this even mean anything? Or, are we just too lazy to think about what is right and try to execute on that? I recommend this book to everyone to get a well-rounded perspective. Young, old, rich, poor. ...more First reviewed Oct.1, 2009. I found and corrected a typo...so the dtae changed. I find sometimes that people are surprised that I would recommend this book (albeit with a couple of reservations). Somehow the fact that I'm a political conservative is supposed to make me unable to identify with low income workers or those called the working poor. Why? I struggled with long periods of unemployment...with a family. I've flipped burgers in several restaurants and several times. I've worked in family r First reviewed Oct.1, 2009. I found and corrected a typo...so the dtae changed. I find sometimes that people are surprised that I would recommend this book (albeit with a couple of reservations). Somehow the fact that I'm a political conservative is supposed to make me unable to identify with low income workers or those called the working poor. Why? I struggled with long periods of unemployment...with a family. I've flipped burgers in several restaurants and several times. I've worked in family restaurants, fast food restaurants, factories, I've worked part time, temporary and \"whatever I could get\". I respect and feel for those who struggle against the odds to support themselves and their loved ones. This book does lay out a lot of the experience. The life of a waitress (who doesn't have to be paid minimum wage because she gets, tips. Of course if the amount of the wages and the tips fail reach the amount of minimum wage the restaurant is supposed to pay the difference. I've never been anywhere the management posted this information or bothered to tell the employees of the fact.) Read the book, learn the lesson, especially if you haven't been there. It takes a deal of courage and self respect to work at a low paying job and to support your family. If it's all you can get you don't quit, you work and do your best turning in a good job, even in a (so called) menial job. What are my reservations about the book? Well the author could never actually be what she was going \"undercover\" to portray herself as. She could always quit and go back to her \"real life\". This of course slanted her view..and (please forgive me if you don't get this...or if you're Barbara Ehrenreich) it seemed to me that her \"voice\" was always a bit condescending about the people she was dealing with, the ones she was concerned about. Do these people need \"more government intrusion\" or simply fairer treatment, a fair day's work and a fair day's wage. The book holds up an actual view of life even if a bit skewed. ...more In this book, the author moves to three different cities, pretends to be a homemaker re-entering the work force, and tries to survive on minimum wage jobs. It's not easy. She works as a waitress, at a nursing home, as a cleaning lady, and at Walmart. She lives in motel rooms and eats fast food when she has no where to cook. I really enjoyed this book, partially because it was like a serious flashback to my own life. I went with Dale to South Carolina for 4 months in the fall of, I don't know, pr In this book, the author moves to three different cities, pretends to be a homemaker re-entering the work force, and tries to survive on minimum wage jobs. It's not easy. She works as a waitress, at a nursing home, as a cleaning lady, and at Walmart. She lives in motel rooms and eats fast food when she has no where to cook. I really enjoyed this book, partially because it was like a serious flashback to my own life. I went with Dale to South Carolina for 4 months in the fall of, I don't know, probably 2005, when he had a military school to attend. We lived in a hotel room the entire time. I had my college degree, but due to the brevity of our residency, I applied for low end jobs (including Walmart, a process she describes) and worked a couple - one as a cleaning lady, just like in this book - and got to know a cleaning woman at our hotel very well. (She helped me hide my cat in my room from management. :-)) That fall, I was working for pennies, cleaning people's pee off of the walls, and sweeping up dead cockroaches from behind their toilets. The managers at the apartment complexes where I cleaned treated me a certain way. They seemed to look down on me, the lowly cleaning lady. It didn't really bother me. I was pretty sure I was way better than them in my head. A mere six months later I was back in Utah, working a high end sales job that I kind of accidentally plopped into. It turned out to be a perfect fit for me, and I began making obscene amounts of money. (Seriously, obscene, like more than brain surgeons get paid.) Side note: I still can't believe they paid me as much as they did because, 1. I just sat and played games on my cell phone all day while talking on the phone to clients, and 2. I so would have stayed and done the same job for $75,000 a year. Or $50,000. Or less. Anything was a big step up for a girl who was a cleaning lady 2 months earlier! Anyways, after two years at that job, being rewarded, respected, and getting plaques on the wall in honor of moi, I turned in my high six figure income to be a stay at home mom. Now I have no income, no awards, no high bonuses, and nothing to show for my work other than the silliest monkey of a child on earth. (Which is way better compensation, anyways.) I have never thought so much about my experience of going from low wage, to high wage, to no wage in such a short period of time before. I think I should write a book about it. I have so much to say! Anyways, I enjoyed almost the whole book here, until the end where the author did her evaluation about how we should become a socialist country. Okay, so she didn't exactly say that, but I bet she is voting for Barak Obama, if you know what I mean. Here is why I think she was a little overdramatic: 1. Your first few weeks at a job are always the toughest. I remember that from the cleaning job, the day I was given a hideously dirty 3 bedroom to clean. I almost sat on the floor and cried, realizing that just scrubbing the floor in the utility closet could take hours alone, and I was paid per apartment, not hourly. But I also remember the first couple months of my sales job being super stressful, in a different way. I came home one evening and crumpled to the floor of my pantry, sobbing. I just could only handle the pressure of the job so long before I lost it. You get used to your jobs after awhile though, and it doesn't phase you anymore. It happens no matter what, I think, you just can't expect it to happen in the first few weeks, or even months. 2. You always start at the very lowest rung on the ladder of success. It sucks, because everyone steps on your head and drops stuff on you. But typically, if you work hard, you will move UP that ladder and get to step on other people instead. Stepping on people is better than being stepped on. You just have to stick around more than a few weeks to get that opportunity. 3. You can be happy in any job. It's all attitude! For reals. I have worked sucky jobs. SUCKY SUCKY SUCKY jobs. And I was happy, generally. One other comment section: I think I forgot to put this somewhere in my review, but I don't remember where I was going to say it. So it's just an end note now: I got to know the cleaning ladies at the hotel I lived in. Particularly, I became friends with a black lady named Delilah Green. She helped me keep my adopted kitten Romeo (now a grown up cat) under wraps from the evil management who banned pets in the room. She had one grown daughter and a granddaughter who lived in Florida. She and her boyfriend and some of his family shared an apartment across town, and she'd ride the bus in. Occasionally I would give her a ride home when she missed the bus, and I got to see where she lived. She'd been a drug addict for years, until she sobered up and found Jesus about two years prior. She was working hard, and working her way back into a real life. Other soldiers from Dale's class didn't like her, and swore she was stealing their beer from their fridges. It ticked me off. They were drunk at 3 AM enough for me to be pretty well aware of who was drinking their alcohol. Anyways, whenever I read about these poor working class blue collar women, I picture my friend Delilah. Granted, she had a lot to learn. I gave her a $50 tip and she told me that she used it to buy food and beer for her old druggie friend who had just got out of jail. She was thrilled to be able to help someone, but I was hoping not to have my tip go to buy a prison reject alcohol. My point is, the people who are in poverty often have a reason. They are in their own way. Maybe they use drugs, or they sleep with lots of different men, unprotected, and not married to any of them. Surprise, they get four kids with no dads to help support them. I KNOW this is not the case with every welfare recipient or low wage worker, but often there is blame they need to shoulder. I liked that Delilah took responsibility for what had happened to her, and was grateful for a second chance. I would really like to read a book that tells the other side of this argument, not just her socialist-esque opinion. It has me thinking a lot. PS. Finally, I would like to say the following: there were approximately 579 other things that I read in this book that made me think, \"Oh wow - I totally want to comment on that in my review on goodreads.com\". This was a very brief (okay, actually it is super long and only my sister will probably read the whole thing, but brief in comparison to what I was THINKING about), and random (because it's what popped into my head while I was typing tonight) discussion of my feelings on this book. Does anyone want to join a book club and read this book then discuss it with me? Please please please? For reals, I just had to stop typing because my review got too long, but this is a fascinating topic, and very interesting book that you can't put down. ...more For the most part, this is a really eye-opening read. It describes an experiement by journalist Barbara Ehrenreich where she takes a series of minimum wage jobs (waitress, hotel maid, housekeeper, nursing home aide, and Wal-Mart employee) and tries to survive on the earnings from those jobs. \"Surviving,\" it turns out, means living in crappy hotels and eating fast food while trying to keep two jobs. Her descriptions of the dirty secrets of the jobs she takes are really interesting - when she clea For the most part, this is a really eye-opening read. It describes an experiement by journalist Barbara Ehrenreich where she takes a series of minimum wage jobs (waitress, hotel maid, housekeeper, nursing home aide, and Wal-Mart employee) and tries to survive on the earnings from those jobs. \"Surviving,\" it turns out, means living in crappy hotels and eating fast food while trying to keep two jobs. Her descriptions of the dirty secrets of the jobs she takes are really interesting - when she cleans houses, she describes how the maids essentially just wipe away dirt without actually bothering to disinfect surfaces - but I'll be honest, I was a little disappointed by how few explosive behind-the-scenes revelations she gives her readers. Also, she's really reluctant to tell exactly which restaurant, maid service, hotel chain, and nursing home she was employed by, although she had no trouble name-dropping when it came time to work for Wal-Mart. I wanted to know exactly which restaurant that was \"part of a well-known national chain\" (called \"Jerry's\" in Ehrenreich's book) makes servers prepare salad with their bare hands and usually doesn't have soap in the employee bathrooms. As muckrakers go, Ehrenreich is a bit of a wimp. She also can't seem to shake the whole \"I Am A Fearless And Noble Journalist Who Sacrifices Everything FOR THE PEOPLE\" mindset she starts out with. When she quits each minimum-wage job to move on to the next one, she makes sure to tell her fellow employees that she's (gasp!) NOT actually a divorced woman with no college education, she's actually a JOURNALIST with a PHD who's INVESTIGATING THIS ESTABLISHMENT FOR A BOOK!!! Ehrenreich is clearly expecting her fellow employees to be shocked and awed by her espionage skills and applaud her for pretending to be One Of Them so she can write a best-selling tell-all, but that doesn't happen. Every single time Ehrenreich reveals her true identity, the response is an overwhelming, \"Um...good for you?\" And it is hilarious. Read for: Surviving the American Dream ...more In her book Barbara Ehrenreich investigates just how working class people in the United States make ends meet. Ehrenreich goes displaces her self three times, in Key West, Maine and Minnesota, allows herself just over $1000, gets housing and a wage paying job, and tries to live as a wage worker for a month. The result is a sad illustration of what its like for millions of Americans who live at the poverty level, depending on wages. Ehrenreich\u2019s experiment does have circumstances that make her e In her book Barbara Ehrenreich investigates just how working class people in the United States make ends meet. Ehrenreich goes displaces her self three times, in Key West, Maine and Minnesota, allows herself just over $1000, gets housing and a wage paying job, and tries to live as a wage worker for a month. The result is a sad illustration of what its like for millions of Americans who live at the poverty level, depending on wages. Ehrenreich\u2019s experiment does have circumstances that make her experience much more bearable than people who are really working for poverty-level wages. She admits that if things get too unbearable she can always dig out her credit card for emergency uses. She also just stays in her test locations for a month, half the time is spent finding work and living quarters. This gives the reader insight to just how difficult it is to find housing if you are poor, and a job that can pay for it. The people Ehrenreich meets while she is on the investigative trips also give the reader an insight into the human side of poverty, and how impossible it can be to overcome your circumstances. While Ehrenreich\u2019s writing definitely has a political message, one cannot help wondering why in a country where everyone is created equal, why many living in poverty often don\u2019t even know where they can get their next meal. Food- a basic human right. <+++>Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America</+++> works. Ehrenreich\u2019s message is clear: those working for poverty-level wages in this country are stuck in a vicious cycle that does not allow for upward mobility. Furthermore, basic luxuries that the rest of the United States takes for granted- health care, food, sleep- are not givens for millions of Americans stuck in this cycle. ...more This is one of those ubiquitous books, being a national bestseller as well as a staple on labor and feminist reading lists. I was never motivated to read it because I kinda assumed that I was already familiar with the issues and in agreement with the conclusions. I was also a bit reluctant to open it because the methodology struck me as potentially problematic. I feared that Ehrenreich's \u201cgoing\u201d low-wage would be offensive by claiming an unfounded authority of the subject of poverty by a tempora This is one of those ubiquitous books, being a national bestseller as well as a staple on labor and feminist reading lists. I was never motivated to read it because I kinda assumed that I was already familiar with the issues and in agreement with the conclusions. I was also a bit reluctant to open it because the methodology struck me as potentially problematic. I feared that Ehrenreich's \u201cgoing\u201d low-wage would be offensive by claiming an unfounded authority of the subject of poverty by a temporary adventure, or being disingenuous to or even intruding on other low-wage earners with whom she would encounter. I finally picked up the book as part of an assigned curriculum for a class I was teaching. While I did have a good understanding of the barriers to escaping poverty and its effects on low-wage, and especially women, workers, \u201cNickel and Dimed\u201d really helped me feel the issues much more. For me personally, the book succeeded in adding a psychological and emotional dimension to poverty labor. At one point she describes being treated by management in a way that made her have the same feelings as when she was bullied in junior high, revealing the sometimes dehumanizing experience of work. There is also the psychological abuse felt by domestic workers who clean extravagant homes but live in substandard housing, or healthcare workers who lack healthcare for themselves. Ehrenreich shows the \u201chidden costs\u201d of being poor. The obstacle of security payment to rent an apartment, the lower energy level and higher risk of sickness from malnutrition, and the crushing sensation of insecurity. Indeed, the costs are so much more than monetary. This book really conveys how poverty labor affects one's entire outlook and worldview. Happily, Ehrenreich's methodology was self-aware and critical. She never forgets that she as a researcher cannot truly know poverty in the same way as the workers she acquaintances and befriends, nor can she fully express their experiences. But the author's participant-observation magnifies both her experience and those of others. The result is something much more penetrating than a journalistic endeavor and much broader than a personal case study. It is clear that Ehrenreich does not ask for the reader's sympathy, but it was difficult for me to not wince at the harrowing descriptions of her attempts to survive as a waitress, a domestic cleaner, a Wal-Mart employee. Given the integrity to Ehrenreich's approach, the sincerity in her prose, the clarity in her analysis, and the power of stories of the workers she meets, I was dismayed at how many of my students clung to myth that to succeed in America one only needs to work hard. The only time that some of these students became shocked and sympathetic is when Ehrenreich shows the reader of the real risk of homelessness for low-wage earners, and cites the statistic that indeed, it is estimated that almost one-fifth of the homeless are employed. Interestingly, there was something about the issue of shelter that caused some of the class to challenge their accepted ideas about work and prosperity. \u201cNickel and Dimed\u201d demonstrates how the system of work is stacked against workers, how democracy and civil liberties are \u201cchecked at the door\u201d upon entering the workplace, yet some students still believed that the workers themselves were somehow responsible for their poverty. This shows the need to not only fight againat poor working conditions, unregulated sectors, and the disappearance of social services, but also the dominant cultural attitudes towards work. ...more I realize I'm nearly a decade late to the \"party\". The party being this book. Sonofa... However, the theme is still relevant, especially with the recent downturn in the economy and the high unemployment rate. The author decides to go \"undercover\" to get the scoop on getting an entry level/minimum wage job and try to set up a household on the wages from those jobs alone. She tried this in different regions of the country (Key West, FLA., Maine, Minnesota). She tried different work; a maid, a waitr I realize I'm nearly a decade late to the \"party\". The party being this book. Sonofa... However, the theme is still relevant, especially with the recent downturn in the economy and the high unemployment rate. The author decides to go \"undercover\" to get the scoop on getting an entry level/minimum wage job and try to set up a household on the wages from those jobs alone. She tried this in different regions of the country (Key West, FLA., Maine, Minnesota). She tried different work; a maid, a waitress, a WALMART employee. (That takes balls.) She finds the work often physically draining, sometimes demeaning, and the pay... not worth a damn. She discovers that a trip to the doctor will break your budget. She also found trying to set up a \"home\" was a challenge, especially finding a home that she felt safe in. All of this makes me understand, rather sadly, why people decide to become strippers and pimps. I know I'd rather make my money by gyrating in some perverts face a few hours a night rather than work for Walmart. (Who wouldn't?!?!) As for pimpin'? Well, it ain't easy, but it has to pay better than $7 an hour. ...more<---C>Barbara Ehrenreich</---C>", "Title": "Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America"},
