{"Comments": "After reading a succession of more serious books, I felt the need to read something light and trashy. As I discovered from reading this book, you should be careful what you wish for.<---F> Light? Yes</---F>. Trashy? Oh yes. Oh yes, yes, yes. But not in a good way - just trash, trash, trash. It is hard to say what I disliked more about this book - the sophomoric writing,<---M> or the annoying</---M>, vapid, 2-d, Harlequin-romance-heroine-helpless-twit persona of <---C>Sookie Stackhouse</---C>. Sookie is a psychic, and this fact is used After reading a succession of more serious books, I felt the need to read something light and trashy. As I discovered from reading this book, you should be careful what you wish for. Light? Yes. Trashy? Oh yes. Oh yes, yes, yes. But not in a good way - just trash, trash, trash. It is hard to say what I disliked more about this book - the sophomoric writing, or the annoying, vapid, 2-d, Harlequin-romance-heroine-helpless-twit persona of Sookie Stackhouse. Sookie is a psychic, and this fact is used to explain everything from why she didn't do well at school and became a cocktail waitress to why she spends all of her free time sunbathing to why she can't see an obviously dangerous situation until she's up to her eyeballs in it. It does not, however, explain why she has such bad dress-sense (denim mini jumper dress with yellow bandana hair clip to impress the vampire who comes to dinner; Tweety Bird night gown that drives him wild with desire), or why her sexual naivete comes and goes like a rash - at times she is very confident about her sexual attractiveness (wearing \"fuck me\" red high heels etc) and other times wondering what Bill the vampire and all of the other men in Louisiana could possibly see in \"l'il ole me\". The sex scenes are either squirmingly bad or tedious. After reading two I just had to skip ahead a few pages any time sex with Sookie looked like it was going to rear its ugly and badly-written head. I know a lot of folks have enjoyed this series, and have devoured every book written by <---A>Charlaine Harris</---A>. From reading other reviews, it seems to be a very polarizing book. As for me, I could barely choke this one down and will look to satisfy my literary appetites elsewhere. 3/28/10 - After having viewed the first two episodes of the HBO series \"True Blood\", I can now understand why people have gone bananas over this series of books. The show (what I've seen so far) is exceptionally good, thanks to a great cast and the writing talents of Alan Ball, who has turned a sow's ear into a silk purse. I can see how a reader might enjoy the books if they had viewed at least some of the series first and kept it in mind while reading Charlaine Harris's less than stellar prose. Unfortunately, that wasn't the case for me - and while I won't be reading any more of these books, I will continue to enjoy the show! ...more The first book in the Sookie Stackhouse series. I confess - I picked this up at the bookstore for a few reasons: 1. The cover was sparkly and I liked the art. 2. Vampires! Having spent a huge chunk of my youth hoping the vampires in Anne Rice's novels would knock on my window late at night (shut-up, like you didn't???) I have been looking for the next Brad Pitt with fangs. (shut-up, like you aren't???) And yeah. That was all it took. Sparkles and vampires - SOLD. I opened up the book and kinda reg The first book in the Sookie Stackhouse series. I confess - I picked this up at the bookstore for a few reasons: 1. The cover was sparkly and I liked the art. 2. Vampires! Having spent a huge chunk of my youth hoping the vampires in Anne Rice's novels would knock on my window late at night (shut-up, like you didn't???) I have been looking for the next Brad Pitt with fangs. (shut-up, like you aren't???) And yeah. That was all it took. Sparkles and vampires - SOLD. I opened up the book and kinda regreted it and thought - Well that's what you get! The main character is called (WHAT???) Sookie Stackhouse? And she is blond and a bar waitress and likes to flaunt her tight clothes and tans out in her lawn in a bikini. Hu. But I never almost never stop reading a book once I start so I bravely forged ahead. And suddenly I stopped laughing and the pages started turning and I found myself thinking about the book when I wasn't reading it and wondering how fast I could get the next book.... So glad that there were sparkles on the cover of this book. So very very glad. ...more Sigh. I tried to give this a fair chance, I really did. I went into it hopeful, despite some other negative reviews that I\u2019ve read, because I quite liked the pilot for True Blood , the new HBO series based on these books. Dark , however, loses points from me right away because the two most interesting characters on the show\u2014Sookie\u2019s cranky best friend Tara, and Lafayette, the fabulous (in every sense of the word) chef at the bar where Sookie works\u2014either completely don\u2019t exist or have only the tin Sigh. I tried to give this a fair chance, I really did. I went into it hopeful, despite some other negative reviews that I\u2019ve read, because I quite liked the pilot for True Blood , the new HBO series based on these books. Dark , however, loses points from me right away because the two most interesting characters on the show\u2014Sookie\u2019s cranky best friend Tara, and Lafayette, the fabulous (in every sense of the word) chef at the bar where Sookie works\u2014either completely don\u2019t exist or have only the tiniest of roles, respectively. Lame. Still, I find the basic premise Harris has cooked up intriguing: in this world, vampires have come \u201cout of the coffin\u201d and are public knowledge; they can drink Japanese-manufactured synthetic blood and have basic human rights. (On the show I believe they are still working toward those rights, but it hasn\u2019t been made entirely clear.) That\u2019s an idea that seems rich with symbolic significance that, correctly handled, could be truly fascinating. Instead, as Harris handles it, it\u2019s just another boring romance between a powerful, possessive alpha male and his frail human woman who\u2019s in need of his protection. Sookie isn\u2019t, to be fair, as helpless and hopelessly devoted to her man as Bella Twilight Swan is, but the basic power dynamic between her and Vampire Bill is still incredibly boring . In general, as a couple, they are boring. So there\u2019s that dullness\u2014bad enough\u2014which Harris proceeds to combine with several shakes of sheer lunacy. Sookie completely under-reacts to incredibly traumatizing things, like waking up with a naked shapeshifter in her bed, or a loved one\u2019s murder. She believes the PR that vampirism is a virus and is really surprised when someone points out that that doesn\u2019t make sense considering that shapeshifters and telepathy also exist, and, you know, vampires can fly . Despite being telepathic, Sookie\u2019s only able to solve the oh-so-complicated mystery when the killer attacks her. (Handy!) Oh, and Elvis shows up. I am not kidding. I wish I were, though. I also wish I was wrong when I say that I can predict pretty much exactly how the rest of this series will go, with Sookie, like a less lubricated Anita Blake, fighting off the affections of two (or more!) men and unable to make up her goddamn mind. Both of those men will devote their (un)lives to protecting her, and Sookie will say, \u201cGod! I\u2019m a grown woman, I can take care of myself! I don\u2019t need you to protect me!\u201d\u2014and then, instantly, need them to protect her. And then Kurt Cobain and Jimmy Hoffa will show up to hang out with Vampire Elvis. Gimme a break. I can only hope that the show proceeds to more interesting ground, because reading this book, all I could think was: been there, done that, have the lousy fang marks. ...more I started reading this series because I was currently watching True Blood and had developed a slight obsession with Eric. Since then, the books have become an absolute guilty pleasure of mine. They are not the best written and occasionally we get a little too much of what we don't care for (i.e. fairies and shifters) but amid the hot vamp sex and murder mysteries... who really notices those anyway?? Most characters have both annoying and redeeming qualities, but this is good - I never did like th I started reading this series because I was currently watching True Blood and had developed a slight obsession with Eric. Since then, the books have become an absolute guilty pleasure of mine. They are not the best written and occasionally we get a little too much of what we don't care for (i.e. fairies and shifters) but amid the hot vamp sex and murder mysteries... who really notices those anyway?? Most characters have both annoying and redeeming qualities, but this is good - I never did like the I-can-do-nothing-wrong hero/heroine. Plus Eric is hot ... have I said this already? If you're looking for a life-changing experience, try The Handmaid's Tale , but if you want something light, chick-lit style and kinda sexy too Sookie Stackhouse and her merry band of random supernatural creatures are where it's at. That probably sounded like a cheesy, promotional ad but what the hell. ...more Stephenie Meyer has nuthin' on this woman (understatement). Harris has in one pinky all the talent of the aforementioned hack, and her huge fan base must take note. \"<+++>Dead Until Dark</+++>\" is a loud middle finger to all those in deep love (& therefore those with questionable tastes) with the \"Twilight\" series. This book reminds me that not all fiction has to be poetry. This one has a clear plot, it ties together all loose ends. It is enthralling, addictive, everything one wants in the PERFECT paper Stephenie Meyer has nuthin' on this woman (understatement). Harris has in one pinky all the talent of the aforementioned hack, and her huge fan base must take note. \"<+++>Dead Until Dark</+++>\" is a loud middle finger to all those in deep love (& therefore those with questionable tastes) with the \"Twilight\" series. This book reminds me that not all fiction has to be poetry. This one has a clear plot, it ties together all loose ends. It is enthralling, addictive, everything one wants in the PERFECT paperback novel. If only I knew about it before the HBO series \"True Blood\" (on which this book, book 1, is based) I would have definitely watch the series, but its occurred vice versa. The series explores characters, has more sex & violence (duh, HBO) but does not touch the same ground this one cleverly hides within its first-look junk-lit verse. Sookie is the Everygirl, clever, lost, in love, found, frightened but curious and courageous. Bill the Vampire lacks the Lestatness of those that came after the Rice novel, but it's okay. At least he is not one-dimensional like Edward Cullen. Everyone here, it seems, has secrets. The theme. There are dark inhabitants of the world, some don't have to be vampires or shapeshifters but humans with deep flaws. Once the mystery is solved (I solved this one way before the climax), this theme comes to light. I wish I was a writer, important, like Charlaine Harris. ...more I'd never heard of these books until a few months ago, and as usual, once one person recommends them, everyone seems to be talking about them, you see them everywhere, and you get curious. They're in the fantasy section, though for some bizarre reason I was under the impression, at first, that they were YA and silly. They are fun, but they are definitely for adults. The vampire/mystery style reminds me of the one Anita Blake book I read, the first one, which was horrible (can't say that enough t I'd never heard of these books until a few months ago, and as usual, once one person recommends them, everyone seems to be talking about them, you see them everywhere, and you get curious. They're in the fantasy section, though for some bizarre reason I was under the impression, at first, that they were YA and silly. They are fun, but they are definitely for adults. The vampire/mystery style reminds me of the one Anita Blake book I read, the first one, which was horrible (can't say that enough times) - the similarities aren't obvious or anything, but perhaps because Dead Until Dark isn't paranormal romance, and it's not like The Turning or the Black Dagger Brotherhood books, Anita Blake is the closest comparison. Oh but this book is soooooo much better! After a slightly rocky start in which the writing confused me a bit (something that also reminded me of Guilty Pleasures , perhaps unfairly), the story really gets going and in new and surprising ways. Sookie Stackhouse is a waitress at a bar in Bon Temps in Louisiana. She has what she calls a disability: she can read minds. She's spent her young life trying to guard against the babble of other people's thoughts, and because of the level of concentration that takes she never did particularly well at school and never went to uni. But she likes working at Merlotte's, likes living with her Gran since her parents died, even though she can't have a relationship - it wouldn't be fun hearing what a man thought of you while being \"intimate\", would it? She's also fascinated by vampires and has been waiting to meet one since they \"came out of the coffin\", so to speak, and became legal citizens. One night her wish comes true: a vampire called Bill (!) comes into Merlotte's and, joy of joys, his mind is silent. She can't hear a thing. Finally a man - an undead man, true - she can relax with. But while Sookie and Bill are trying to have a normal relationship, working class women are being murdered in the area and while at first it looks like vampire work, soon the police are looking at Sookie's womanising brother Jason. On top of that, the most powerful (and dead gorgeous) vampire in the area, Eric, has his eye on Sookie and her ability for his own uses. Dead Until Dark is a great mix of urban fantasy and mystery, and the crime side of the story didn't bore me a bit. I loved Bill, he was kinda adorable while also a bit unpredictable and scary (very nice), and while I didn't understand all the expressions I've seen enough movies set in southern US states that I could picture the people, places and culture fairly well. The book could have done with better proof-reading to catch all those missing prepositions and, at one point, an interesting way of spelling \"complexion\". There were also a few times where Sookie, who narrates, is musing about something and then another characters replies - it threw me off because it wasn't all that clear that she'd voiced her thoughts. Sookie is a great protagonist, lively, fiesty, quirky and strong without being stubborn and bitchy, and her telepathy makes her especially interesting. She's definitely one of the better heroines of vampire novels I've come across to date. I loved Sam too, and Dean was great! Oh and the Elvis thing was funny too, though I was a bit slow in catching on. Anyway, if vampire books aren't your usual cup of tea, you might want to try this series because it's very enjoyable and fast-paced, yet with nice slow moments where you get to enjoy and understand the characters (so good character development, always important). So I guess this means I'm joining the Sookie Stackhouse bandwagon? ...more Some people have asked me why I never read Adult Paranormal Romance books. Well, TrueBlood is the reason why. Read on, if you feel like snorting with pity-laughter. Damn. I wish I could explain why I had to give this book a one star rating without sounding lame as hell. Because really, it was a stupid reason, one that only I would run into, and I'm 98% certain many of you will roll your eyes at me. But I'm going to be honest. Because I'm nothing if not a truthful person. Ahaha, that's a total lie. T Some people have asked me why I never read Adult Paranormal Romance books. Well, TrueBlood is the reason why. Read on, if you feel like snorting with pity-laughter. Damn. I wish I could explain why I had to give this book a one star rating without sounding lame as hell. Because really, it was a stupid reason, one that only I would run into, and I'm 98% certain many of you will roll your eyes at me. But I'm going to be honest. Because I'm nothing if not a truthful person. Ahaha, that's a total lie. The main reason this book scared the shit out of me was because I'd read it in Catholic elementary school. (Even though I'm not Christian... Yeah, I never understood that either.) For those of you who have no idea what it's like in Catholic school (or at least my school): The closest you ever got to talking about sex were dirty jokes and boys giggling at things that look \"wrong.\" (And the occasional \"Your mom!\" jokes and laughing at the reproductive chapters of the science text books. We were not the most mature students.) Yeah. So some idiot that totally was not me for reserving the book without looking at the genres first put this book in the YA section. And me, being the YA lover I was, thought, OMG, vampires! (was a big Twihard) and read it. Biiig mistake. So 10 year old me was reading the extremely detailed sex scenes in this book with the most horrified expression you could ever imagine on my face. I only kept reading because I wanted to know who the murderer was. (This book is half mystery.) But anyway, it scarred me for life. I can't ever read a sex scene again without thinking back to this book and shuddering. Moral of the story: If you're a 10 year old in the library, make sure the book you picked up is not porn before you get it. Because it will traumatize you. And yes. So that is why I loathe this book. Lame? Yes. Will my opinion ever change on this book? No. Alright, alright, enough of my pitiful childhood stories. There was some other shit in this book that makes me hate it, too. For one thing---I did not understand the attraction between Bill and Sookie at all. Seriously. I mean, it was totally lust based---let's forget about the traumatization for a moment. I'm speaking from a non-Catholic-Middle-Schooler perspective now---and no love. At all. This is what I got from it: SEXLUSTSEXSEXPORNSEXPENISLUSTSEXSEXSEXSEXHOTSEXSEXLUSTSEXLUSTPORNSEXSEXLUSTSEXLUSTLUSTLUSTSEXSEXSEXSEXSEXLUSTLUSTSEXPORNVAGINASEXLUSTPORN.. Yep. Gather round, children, those are some words of wisdom right there. Look, I don't mind romance, not at all. I don't have anything against it and I've grown up since my awful 10th birthday. But you have to have more to a fictional relationship than just sex if you want me to like it. Otherwise, it turns into this trainwreck. And by then, I get bored and set the book on fire. Then, we also have these other weird things: Like the names. What the hell is up with this: Bill Compton, Sookie Stackhouse, all the other names I didn't bother to remember?! Who the fuck names a vampire Bill? I get the feeling she went on one of those name generators online. I mean like, they're fine to use and all, but if the name sounds to weird, sometimes you should tweak it just a bit. That way, your heroine's name doesn't sound like a kindergarten tongue twister. Sookie Stackhouse. Sookie Snackhouse. Snookie Stackouse. Stookie Sackhouse. (I could totally make a bitchy joke about Snooki here, but I don't feel like dealing with trolls if I do. But you probably know what I'm implying.) Bottom line? I hated this book then, I hate this book now. I AM DONE WITH VAMPIRES FOR AT LEAST THE NEXT CENTURY. ...more December 2014 buddy read with Shelly , Carole , Evgeny , Karly , Jess , Allison , Catherine & Monty Cupcake . DNF at 50% Sookie, Sookie, Sookie. Because of you most of my friends either hate me or think I'm a total freak. They think you're quirky, I think you're silly. They think your story is better than candy, I think your story is the most uninteresting ever. Sorry guys, I don't think this review is going to go well. I was recently told I was snarky and a cold-hearted, impatient cynic (you know wh December 2014 buddy read with Shelly , Carole , Evgeny , Karly , Jess , Allison , Catherine & Monty Cupcake . DNF at 50% Sookie, Sookie, Sookie. Because of you most of my friends either hate me or think I'm a total freak. They think you're quirky, I think you're silly. They think your story is better than candy, I think your story is the most uninteresting ever. Sorry guys, I don't think this review is going to go well. I was recently told I was snarky and a cold-hearted, impatient cynic (you know who you are people!^^). Guilty as charged. Which might partly explain why I didn't like this. Chick lit meets bad PNR as written by a 17 year old clearly is not me. The story? Uninteresting at best. Apart from that? Boring to death. There is only so much I can read about Sookie's daily life: taking a shower, shaving her legs, plucking her eyebrows, putting on body lotion and deodorant\u2026 Seriously? Arrrgggghhhhhh!!!!! Someone please shoot me! Oh but wait, we also get to find out about fascinating stuff like her job at the bar or Bill's shopping habits: he gets his \"khaki Dockers, green and brown striped golfing shirt, polished loafers, and thin brown socks\" from Dillard's you see. Fascinating stuff I tell you! And don't get me started about Uncle Bartlett's prostate problems. Wait wait wait! Something is finally about to happen! Oops, sorry, it's only Sookie going to work again. And it goes on and on and on and on\u2026 Now for the corny stuff. #1 Sookie and Bill have known each other for about 5 seconds and they're already strolling hand in hand like two lovebirds. Okay, it's a bit silly but I can deal with it. #2 \"Your dress is the color of your eyes.\" Please tell me I did not just read this. #3 \"His eyes looked at my body as if it were a drink of water on a desert dune.\" Someone please shoot me. Again. And it goes on and on and on and on\u2026 I'm sorry. Mushy is not me. And mushy is just not sexy either. Because Sookie & Bill kissing and having sex is about as unsexy as it gets. What are these people made of? Stone? Cardboard? I don't think I've ever read such boring, unexciting, ridiculous, badly written sex scenes. But apparently Sookie doesn't notice because she's \"flying, flying, seeing white with gold streaks\" {insert major eye roll here}. Sorry guys, I'm not done yet. Defendant #1: Sookie \"I\u2019m blond and blue-eyed and twenty-five, and my legs are strong and my bosom is substantial, and I have a waspy waistline.\" Are you kidding me? Needless to say, Sookie and I got off to a bad start. And it all went downhill from there. The girl is silly, immature and overly na\u00efve. I get that she's supposed to have been sheltered all her life but this is just too much. The girl is supposed to be 25, not 15. To make things worse she's as emotional as a stone. Did I say that already? Oh well. Defendant #2: Bill Most boring vampire ever? You got that right! I've never been a big vampire fan but this guy gives the word dull a whole new dimension. What with his constant pity party , corny ways, wanting to settle down, not wanting to drink blood from humans\u2026 Get a life Bill! A real badass vampire life! To make things worse he's as emotional as a stone. Did I say that already? Oh well. To think someone sold me this series (yes Shelly , it's you I'm talking about) with images such as this one: And I got Boring Bill instead? I am not pleased. This is not Urban Fantasy it's Boring Fantasy. By now I think you all realize I slightly disliked this book. But I'm a nice girl, I really mean no harm. So please don't start unfriending me just yet guys! I love you all and promise to behave from now on! ...more The television show True Blood was better than this in every sense; it completely transcended it. Well, at least, before the fourth season hit and the writing went down the toilet. But that\u2019s a separate issue altogether. The show took Charlaine Harris\u2019s book and made the story better; it made it sexy and scary. But, let\u2019s not forget that without this there would have been no show whatsoever. So fans of the television show do owe a lot to Charlaine Harris. Her writing for me though can be summed The television show True Blood was better than this in every sense; it completely transcended it. Well, at least, before the fourth season hit and the writing went down the toilet. But that\u2019s a separate issue altogether. The show took Charlaine Harris\u2019s book and made the story better; it made it sexy and scary. But, let\u2019s not forget that without this there would have been no show whatsoever. So fans of the television show do owe a lot to Charlaine Harris. Her writing for me though can be summed up in one word: tepid. She has the characters and some strong ideas, but she just can\u2019t insert life into her prose. Where was the shock factor? Where were the cheap thrills and the melodrama? Normally I\u2019d criticise a book for having these, but this one so desperately needed them! I didn\u2019t find this story remotely exciting; it had no sense of drive, and, again, it lacked the sex appeal of the television show. Perhaps, I may have enjoyed this a little more if I\u2019d read it before seeing all the blood and drama on the screen. Who knows? Either way this just didn\u2019t hit the mark. There is no atmosphere Television Bill was a bit of an enigma, at least, he was at the start. He comes across as a brooding man, troubled by his past and his violent nature. Here, though, he\u2019s just a bit boring. He doesn\u2019t really have a lot about him. He seemed more computer geek than vampire solider. The writers of the show, undeniably, took his character and made it better; they made him interesting and devious. Some super fans will likely disagree with me. But ask yourself this, which Bill is more interesting to hear about? Which one would you rather turn at Merlot\u2019s bar and grill giving you the eye and the fang? He carried with him a dark story, one the show slowly peeled back. Then there is the lack of antagonist. Sure, there\u2019s a mysterious serial killer going around stabbing people to death. But, ultimately, he was dealt with rather easily. Again, to compare this to the show, the first season shadows Eric as a sort of bad guy. It was so much more entertaining! I have read much further than this book in the series. In my mid to late teens I managed to get through most of them, and I didn\u2019t really enjoy any of them. I\u2019m not sure why I kept reading them to be honest; it was likely due to a lack of reading material and funds to buy something better. True Blood is far from being the peak of television artistry; however, it can be enjoyed for what it is: a dark and mysterious fantasy romance that depicts weird and wonderful characters struggling though their fucked up lives. This here is the story of just Sookie Stackhouse whereas True Blood expands on the side characters and fleshes them out; they were the ones that make it fun. Sookie is just dull, her life is dull, and this book is dull. Even after all these years I can still taste the blandness of the writing. If my seventeen year old self, a self who had read less than twenty books in his life hated this, I dread to think how I would react to it now if I was reading it for the first time. ...more 3.5 stars This is the first book in the Sookie Stackhouse Series and I did enjoy it but I don't think I will be continuing with this series. It just did not really excite me so much. I guess the main reason why is because I really do not care for vampire stories too much. I thought this would be an exception since there was a mystery in the book, and that was the part that I enjoyed. Welcome to the small town of Bon Temps in Louisiana, where a mid twenty, blonde, blue-eyed waitress named Sookie 3.5 stars This is the first book in the Sookie Stackhouse Series and I did enjoy it but I don't think I will be continuing with this series. It just did not really excite me so much. I guess the main reason why is because I really do not care for vampire stories too much. I thought this would be an exception since there was a mystery in the book, and that was the part that I enjoyed. Welcome to the small town of Bon Temps in Louisiana, where a mid twenty, blonde, blue-eyed waitress named Sookie Stackhouse calls home. But she's no ordinary waitress, she has a disability. She's a telepath. This makes life a little difficult for Sookie, particularly the dating part. Imagine \u2018hearing\u2019 all your dates thoughts, not always a desirable thing, especially if there scrutinizing you. Then one day a stranger arrives in town. He is tall, dark and handsome. And the best part is that, unlike everyone else, Sookie cannot hear his thoughts. But he is not perfect; he is pale, fanged and dead. Enter Bill Compton, vampire. What follows is a fun and entertaining story, mixing romance, mystery and vampires, as Sookie and Bill begin a relationship, attempt to solve a number of murders that have coincidently occurred with the arrival of Bill into town, not to mention land her brother in jail, and also begins for her a new, and somewhat unwanted, career with the vampires of Louisiana. It\u2019s an enjoyable and effortless read, a book you can easily lose yourself in. ...more Reviewed by: Rabid Reads 3.5 stars I basically had two separate lives growing up. My main life involved my nurse mother, my pharmacist (legal) father, and two of my three sisters, all living a suburban life just outside of Charlotte, NC. My secondary life involved my biological father and his entire family which was (they\u2019ve since departed) headquartered in Bon Aqua (pronounced \u201cACK-qua\u201d), TN. Bon Aqua, thusly named for the water that locals lineup in their pickup-trucks to collect, with their emp Reviewed by: Rabid Reads 3.5 stars I basically had two separate lives growing up. My main life involved my nurse mother, my pharmacist (legal) father, and two of my three sisters, all living a suburban life just outside of Charlotte, NC. My secondary life involved my biological father and his entire family which was (they\u2019ve since departed) headquartered in Bon Aqua (pronounced \u201cACK-qua\u201d), TN. Bon Aqua, thusly named for the water that locals lineup in their pickup-trucks to collect, with their empty milk jugs, flowing out of a rusted pipe in the ground. True story. I think that\u2019s one of the reasons I like Charlaine Harris\u2019 Sookie Stackhouse series so much\u2014b/c I can relate. I grew up hearing people say things like, \u201cSure enough, some sumbitch, scuse me, was sneaking around the house,\u201d which is what Bubba (and by \u201cBubba\u201d I mean ELVIS) said after he scared away the creeper from Sookie\u2019s house. And I am intimately acquainted with the small-minded prejudices that seem to thrive in small towns. My family, for the most part, isn\u2019t like that, but you can\u2019t grow up in that kind of place without hearing some very politically incorrect terms and phrases tossed around. The kind of place where if you take issue with said politically incorrect terms and phrases, you\u2019re either \u201cuppity\u201d if you\u2019re a woman, or a \u201cwoman\u201d if you\u2019re a man. So it\u2019s nice to see someone like Sookie\u2014a college degree-less, \u201cbarmaid\u201d who has been whispered and gossiped about her entire life b/c of her \u201cdisability\u201d, come out ahead of her \u201cbetters.\u201d Better than nice. I bloody LOVE it. No, Sookie didn\u2019t go to college. Kind of hard to continue her education when she\u2019s a telepath who can\u2019t keep everyone else\u2019s thoughts out of her head without extreme effort. So much effort that she has nothing left to devote to things like paying attention in class. And yes, Sookie is a SERVER (fortheloveofgod). I was too when I was in school. But Sookie is not an idiot, and though she does admittedly have her less-than-stellar moments, Harris ultimately creates a highly capable woman in her. So for the three (or so) of you that haven\u2019t read the books or watched True Blood yet, Dead Until Dark takes place in a world just like ours. With one exception\u2014the Japanese have created and patented synthetic blood, ending blood shortages for medical facilities, AND prompting vampires to come out of the coffin , so to speak. *snickers* The vampires took this action b/c they felt they would be well-received now that humans no longer had to fear for their lives (in regards to vampires). Vampires could subsist on the manufactured blood, protecting humans from their thirst. Things are rarely so simple. Incidentally, the vampires\u2019 party-line is that they are the victims of a virus that gives them the appearance of being dead for three(ish) days, after which they rise with allergies to things like garlic and sunlight, silver and . . . holy water . . . *snorts* They are received with equal parts fear and awe. So Sookie is thrilled when a vampire walks into Merlotte\u2019s, the bar where she works, and sits in her section. And when she realizes that she can\u2019t hear the vampire\u2019s thoughts she is shocked and delighted. But just b/c she can\u2019t hear the vampire\u2019s thoughts, doesn\u2019t mean she can\u2019t hear the thoughts of two bar patrons intent on draining the vampire for his blood. When she follows the three of them out to the parking lot and rescues Bill (the vampire), she begins the series of events that lead to her romantic involvement a vampire. And the timing couldn\u2019t be worse b/c someone is strangling women in Bon Temps (where Sookie lives) who are known to associate with vampires . . . The Sookie Stackhouse series by Charlaine Harris was one of the first Urban Fantasy series I ever read, and no matter how disappointed I was with how it ended last year, I don\u2019t think I\u2019ll ever stop loving Sookie. Dead Until Dark was the beginning of that love, and up until book 10 or 11 that love only grew (and 10 or 11 out of 13 ain\u2019t bad). This series is one that every lover of Urban Fantasy should have under their belt, so if you haven\u2019t already, what are you waiting for? You\u2019ve got nearly a dozen books before you need to be worried about anything, and if you simply can\u2019t accept the ending, I\u2019m sure you can find a fanfic somewhere that will do your dreams justice. Don\u2019t miss out on Sookie altogether just b/c she doesn\u2019t live HEA with the crowd favorite. ALSO--by the time you get to book 13, the \"crowd favorite\" could be one of a couple different characters b/c one of them turned into such an a**hole! So, if you didn't read that far, don't automatically make assumptions (like I did when I assumed everyone knew this already)! *****I'm seeing now that I didn't explain why I only gave this book 3.5 stars when I only had good things to say about it. My bad. The reason is that there was a LOT of relationship angst. I can tell that Harris was trying to be realistic, and that's admirable. Real relationships DO have problems. BUT no one wants to hear about everybody else's everyday, nit-picky relationship issues. It's dull. And obnoxious. Which is how I felt about most of Bill and Sookie's relationship. Oh, they had their good moments too, but then there were all the times Bill took \"matters\" into his own hands, and all the little misunderstandings, etc. Just . . . enough already. SO. That's why only 3.5 stars. It should come as no surprise that I did not miss Bill at ALL once he was gone. My other reviews for this series: Living Dead in Dallas (Sookie Stackhouse #2) ...more When I first read the premise for the book, I thought it was slightly intriguing. Nothing I would rush out to get and read right away, but still enough for me to put on my list of to-read. Now that I've read it, I want my brain back. I like the idea that vampires are a known part of the human world. I really do. I liked Sam, about the only character in the entire book I did like, and how Harris explained him. I just think it took to long for her to reveal it all and to get her point across. I lov When I first read the premise for the book, I thought it was slightly intriguing. Nothing I would rush out to get and read right away, but still enough for me to put on my list of to-read. Now that I've read it, I want my brain back. I like the idea that vampires are a known part of the human world. I really do. I liked Sam, about the only character in the entire book I did like, and how Harris explained him. I just think it took to long for her to reveal it all and to get her point across. I love vampire novels and vampire romance novels, they're all I've practically been reading lately, but this one just didn't seem to have the spark needed to keep my interest. Too many typing errors and random words missing and grammatical errors. I'll leave that to blame for the editor, but that wasn't the only problem I had. I just couldn't seem to connect with the main character, Sookie. She may have been a virgin, but she shouldn't have been as naive as Harris wrote her. She's 25 and working in a bar and has the ability to read minds, which she can't always control. That alone should have taught her more about the world of sex then what she seemed to know. She wasn't a sheltered person so I really don't know how she could have been that naive about it all, especially when she knew about how promiscuous her brother was. And as for people saying that's all this book had, it's really not. The few sex scenes that were written read like bad fanfiction. You want sex and vampires? Go read Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake series. Dead Until Dark barely deserves the two stars I gave it, and really that was only for Sam, the only real character in the entire book. ...more Original Rating: 5 stars New Rating: 2 Stars This was a Buddy read (re-read for me) with Sarah , Karly , Carole , Kristin (when we get to book 3), Kelly (when we get to book 4), Jess , and Catherine. Ok, I don't know what I was thinking when I gave this book 5 stars. This is not a 5 star book. This was my 4th time reading this and I think my last. The main reason is: it's BORING. There was WAY too much Bill. I didn't realize how boring Bill was. I mean, he was always super boring compared to Eric, but Original Rating: 5 stars New Rating: 2 Stars This was a Buddy read (re-read for me) with Sarah , Karly , Carole , Kristin (when we get to book 3), Kelly (when we get to book 4), Jess , and Catherine. Ok, I don't know what I was thinking when I gave this book 5 stars. This is not a 5 star book. This was my 4th time reading this and I think my last. The main reason is: it's BORING. There was WAY too much Bill. I didn't realize how boring Bill was. I mean, he was always super boring compared to Eric, but he was a total snoozefest this time for me. (He favors Kenny G music for God's sake!) I think he actually said once to Sookie, \"I wish to enter you again.\" What a cornball. Maybe it's supposed to be cute? Too much Bill, not enough ERIC NORTHMAN. The best scenes of the book were at Fangtasia and sadly that was only twice in this one. The series gets MUCH better when it moves away from Bill and toward ERIC. Sookie, outside of her telepathy, is just a boring Southern barmaid who wears banana clips and pines for a husband who will one day join the local Rotary club and grab milk for her on the way home from the office - when the sun's still shining. The murder mystery was quite dull as well. But at least we got to meet Bubba in this one! I still recommend some of the later books (but not too much later because they get craptastic towards the end). This does kind of read like chick lit, though. I hadn't thought to put it in that category before. Previous to this series, Charlaine Harris wrote \"cozies,\" so I think that small town mystery vibe comes through strong in this one. There is a lot more excitement in the next few books (through book 8 or 9, then the series fades quickly). It's really all about Eric Northman for me. ...more Let's get one thing straight...Sookie Stackhouse is no Bella Swan. You may have read the myriad reviews that list the similarities between Charlaine Harris's novels and the Twilight Saga and I can assure you that most of them are true. Harris refers to her vampires 'glowing', Bill drinks synthetic blood, Sookie can read minds...the list goes on and on. But after finishing this book, what I can assure you is that in so many ways these books are so completely different that they bear no comparison. Let's get one thing straight...Sookie Stackhouse is no Bella Swan. You may have read the myriad reviews that list the similarities between Charlaine Harris's novels and the Twilight Saga and I can assure you that most of them are true. Harris refers to her vampires 'glowing', Bill drinks synthetic blood, Sookie can read minds...the list goes on and on. But after finishing this book, what I can assure you is that in so many ways these books are so completely different that they bear no comparison. The Sookie Stackhouse novels are fun and action-packed where Twilight is contemplative with a more restrained plot. Neither one is better...they're just different. What I enjoyed so much about Dead Until Dark is the incredible, break-neck pace the plot moved along at. This was like watching a blockbuster movie and truly didn't take much more time than that to read. Harris threads the hooks of the story expertly. When you get to the end of a chapter, she'll write something to stop your heart dead in your chest. You literally HAVE to turn the page to find out more. The other major strength of this novel is Sookie. She is one of the most fun characters. She's kooky, she's kick-ass and I loved being able to step right into her mind. I would've taken tough-stuff Sookie over Bella any day. But Bill is not comparable to Edward. He's HOT and he oozes that sexy bad-guy image but I just don't know if I 100% believes he loves Sookie. I know his character is supposed to be stiff and uncommunicative but I did find it a challenge to warm to him as much as I have done with other romantic heroes. He doesn't really have the 'swoon factor' Edward does. I will absolutely continue to read this series with great pleasure. I do want to know what happens with Sookie...I secretly hopes she shacks up with Sam. Is that too much to ask? Readers should be warned that this novel is quite violent. It also discusses issues that some could find disturbing and upsetting (incest etc). For more conservative readers, please be aware there are multiple explicit love scenes. I would certainly recommend this book to Twilight fans looking for an enjoyable vampire series. ...more First off, paranormal fiction of any stripe really isn't my bag. I'm more of a hard-science/horror, horror/thriller kind of a guy. I'm a big fan of the TRUE BLOOD television series. My wife tricked me into watching it, because I was convinced I \"couldn't possibly like yet another kissy-vampire show.\" Well, I was wrong; I got hooked on the campy fun of TRUE BLOOD right off the bat. Since I'm an author and have high hopes of seeing one of my own books turned into a series someday, I picked up the First off, paranormal fiction of any stripe really isn't my bag. I'm more of a hard-science/horror, horror/thriller kind of a guy. I'm a big fan of the TRUE BLOOD television series. My wife tricked me into watching it, because I was convinced I \"couldn't possibly like yet another kissy-vampire show.\" Well, I was wrong; I got hooked on the campy fun of TRUE BLOOD right off the bat. Since I'm an author and have high hopes of seeing one of my own books turned into a series someday, I picked up the first DEXTER book and DEAD UNTIL DARK to see how TV writers adapted novels for the small screen. DEXTER blew me away and still ranks as one of the most brilliant \"high concept\" ideas in horror fiction. Then I read DEAD UNTIL DARK, and you know what? It's fantastic. I need to get over my snooty attitude about paranormal romance, because this is just a flat-out good story. Harris creates a fantastic main character. Sookie Stackhouse is full of flaws and doubts, and at the same time is perfectly content in her normal life. As content as she can be, considering her telepathic abilities. The normalcy and neuroses of Sookie make her instantly \"real.\" I was empathizing with her before any of the madness started, and that let me slip into the story and accept all the paranormal activity: I mean, it's not happening to some character, it's happening to my rational friend Sookie, so it's okay to believe in it. Bottom line: loved the book, loved the character. The novel is fun, sexy and puts a great skin on a Down South murder mystery. It's no wonder this series is so popular. ...more A group read with my GR buddies. Sookie Stackhouse has a disability - at least she thinks she has one. She can read minds and she always has to block this ability of hers to keep herself from going crazy from constant buzz of thoughts from everywhere. She also wants to meet a vampire, so when one finally walks into the bar she works as a waitress in, she literally jumps at him the way poor creature does not stand a chance. For people who read Twilight I do not need to tell anything more as this A group read with my GR buddies. Sookie Stackhouse has a disability - at least she thinks she has one. She can read minds and she always has to block this ability of hers to keep herself from going crazy from constant buzz of thoughts from everywhere. She also wants to meet a vampire, so when one finally walks into the bar she works as a waitress in, she literally jumps at him the way poor creature does not stand a chance. For people who read Twilight I do not need to tell anything more as this most definitely was a book which heavily inspired Stephenie Meyer. I found two differences between the books. Sookie is more fleshed out than Bella Swan and unlike Twilight universe the vampires do not sparkle in this series; they glow. This basically is the whole review. If you like Twilight this might be your cap of tea. If you did not there is still hope for you - as I mentioned Sookie is a fairly interesting character on her own. There is also a mystery in the book to keep things more exciting, but to be fair nobody bothered solving it. There were some half-hearted attempts at doing it, but I had a feeling nobody bothered to do it seriously, including the police and people whose lives were affected by it. My own opinion: a decent book with nothing really outstanding. My rating is 2.5 stars rounded up: I do not want to penalize the book for not belonging to my favorite genre. This review is a copy/paste of my LeafMarks one: https://www.leafmarks.com/lm/#/users/... ...more Opening Line: \"I'd been waiting for the Vampire for years when he walked into the bar.\" I must be one of the last people on the planet to read Dead After Dark. I also haven\u2019t had a chance (yet) to watch True Blood, although because it\u2019s been all over the media I had a pretty good visual reference for the characters here without actually having to compare the two. I was able to just go along for the ride. And what a ride, I can definitely see now what all the fuss has been about. Honestly I had a h Opening Line: \"I'd been waiting for the Vampire for years when he walked into the bar.\" I must be one of the last people on the planet to read Dead After Dark. I also haven\u2019t had a chance (yet) to watch True Blood, although because it\u2019s been all over the media I had a pretty good visual reference for the characters here without actually having to compare the two. I was able to just go along for the ride. And what a ride, I can definitely see now what all the fuss has been about. Honestly I had a hard time putting this down. Harris has created the perfect mixture of paranormal romance, mystery and action. With intriguing, humorous characters and situations and an absorbing, fast moving plot. Her take on Vampiric society is fresh and fascinating and I appreciated how we were continually reminded that despite \u201ccoming out\u201d vampires are still very much predators. I also found Sookie to be incredibly relatable despite her \u201cdisability\u201d and supernatural circumstances. Harris just has a way of making her feel all girl next door so that we discover everything right along with her. I also loved Harris\u2019s portrait of small town America and in this case it\u2019s unique bar patrons whom I felt like I knew. This could be in part because I\u2019m from a small town and I also cocktailed for years so the characters seemed familiar to me. Whatever the case I\u2019m glad I finally got around to reading this series. Sookie lives in the real world of small town Louisiana. She is a pretty cocktail waitress, lives with her grandmother and because of her telepathic \u201cdisability\u201d keeps to herself. The people in Bon Temps tend to think that Sookie\u2019s a little crazy because she knows things she shouldn\u2019t and acts strange while her mental \u201cguard\u201d is up. Everything changes the day Bill walks into her bar and orders a bottle of synthetic blood. Bill is a vampire and ever since they entered mainstream society she\u2019s wanted to meet one. To make things even more interesting Sookie can\u2019t hear a word he\u2019s thinking, Bill might just be her perfect match, except of course for the fact that he\u2019s dead. Unfortunately soon after Bill arrives people start turning up dead, in particular waitresses. After an attack at her grandmother\u2019s house Sookie fears she might be next. Then there\u2019s Bill\u2019s creepy group of friends, the recent Elvis sightings, her brothers illicit behaviour and all of a sudden her boss isn\u2018t quite who he appears to be either. So like I said I really enjoyed this, the love scenes are steamy and dirty (think outdoors, mud, and covered in blood dirty) and Bill well he is just delicious in a dangerous bad boy wanting to brush your hair kinda way. The romance aspect here was very good. I also really liked Sam\u2019s character and appreciated how his true self wasn\u2019t revealed right away. Bubba was another awesome little addition and the many townsfolk and their idiosyncrasies were fantastic. There are some surprising moments here and I never really knew where things were going to go next. Although I\u2019ll be honest I had a tough time keeping straight who was who. Getting many of (the many) secondary characters mixed up so that even at the end when the killer was revealed I had to back track to figure out who it was. As a former waitress (which Harris must also have been at one time) I found the bar scenes realistic and fun. Can\u2019t recommend this one enough. ...more I'm in that small minority of readers of urban fantasy who hasn't read this series or watched True Blood , the television show based on these books. After reading this story, I'm not quite sure what all the fuss is about but I'm intrigued enough to continue on. Sookie Stackhouse is a waitress at Merlotte's in the small Louisiana town of Bon Temps. She has what she refers to as a \"disability,\" simply a telepathic \"ability.\" Yes, she can hear people's thoughts (with a few exceptions). When Bill Com I'm in that small minority of readers of urban fantasy who hasn't read this series or watched True Blood , the television show based on these books. After reading this story, I'm not quite sure what all the fuss is about but I'm intrigued enough to continue on. Sookie Stackhouse is a waitress at Merlotte's in the small Louisiana town of Bon Temps. She has what she refers to as a \"disability,\" simply a telepathic \"ability.\" Yes, she can hear people's thoughts (with a few exceptions). When Bill Compton shows up at the bar, Sookie quickly recognizes him as a vampire and forms a friendship with him. In this world, vampires are \"out\" and live amongst humans. There are other aspects of this world that are unique but I'll leave that for personal discovery. Things become interesting when it appears there's a serial killer at large and vampires become the prime suspects, especially Bill. I liked the story, didn't love it. Harris provides a level of descriptive detail that I found tedious until I listened to a portion of the audio version, recommended by a GR friend. It's apparent that this story is written specifically to the personality of the character and townspeople and it then made sense. I read the rest of the book with the narrator's voice in my head and it made a big difference. I'll continue the series but only listening to the audio version. I didn't guess the murderer and, rare for me, didn't care because there was so much going on. I liked Sookie, her friends, acquaintances & co-workers and want to see where she goes from here. 3.5 stars ...more So, what can I say? I enjoyed the book, but in a guilty pleasures, sort of embarrassed to admit kind of way. Let's admit it - this is hardly well written, but it's quick and light and fun, and there's something to be said for that. That said, I didn't really like Sookie's voice. I found it rather irritating right from the start. And the dialogue - ugh, who talks like that? And if people really do talk like that, then I'm glad I don't know them. And there's not much character development to speak o So, what can I say? I enjoyed the book, but in a guilty pleasures, sort of embarrassed to admit kind of way. Let's admit it - this is hardly well written, but it's quick and light and fun, and there's something to be said for that. That said, I didn't really like Sookie's voice. I found it rather irritating right from the start. And the dialogue - ugh, who talks like that? And if people really do talk like that, then I'm glad I don't know them. And there's not much character development to speak of. Sookie is annoying in her so-called naivette. It just seemed like manufactured drama to me. I mean, she accused Bill of being hot and cold, but, really, Sookie was just all over the place. She loves him, she hates him, she's not talking to him, she needs him - and over silly little trivial stuff. Talk about high maintenance. And Bill's pretty one-dimensional. \"I'm violent, Sookie, but I'll never hurt you.\" And those clothes? Speaking of clothes - I didn't need to know about the print on Sookie's dress, or whether or not she washed her hair and shaved that day in the shower. Really, there are some details which are just extraneous. (Not to mention her fashion sense seems stuck in the 80s. If you're going to talk clothes, then talk clothes, dahling.) Anyway... the whole thing with Sam was pretty damn obvious, too. Erm, as far as characters go, I liked the grandma, and every one else (well, including her, really) seemed pretty much like a pastiche. Actually, I think the best way I can say it is that it was like reading a soap opera. Over-the-top melodrama, with thin characters, and horribly bad dialogue. I don't see myself continuing with the series. Oh, but I do have to say, the whole \"PR thing\" about it being a virus. Ok - I could buy that people would buy that there's a virus that makes people avoid the sun and be allergic to garlic, or whatever... but the virus also makes their hearts stop and live forever? Really? And the fact that Sookie is surprised to discover it's supernatural? Ugh! I'd probably rate it lower, because it was just horribly written and ludicrous, but I liked it, damnit... so take it for what it's worth. ...more Buddy read starting December 29 with Sarah , Shelly , Evgeny , Karly , Jess , Allison , Catherine & Monty Cupcake . Discussion Thread 2014 Review: This review can also be found at Carole's Random Life . 5 Stars! When I saw that some of my friends on Goodreads were getting a buddy read of this book organized, I jumped at the chance to join. I don't really know why I love this book so much. It actually has a few problems and I see them but I just don't care. I love this book anyway despite all of its flaws Buddy read starting December 29 with Sarah , Shelly , Evgeny , Karly , Jess , Allison , Catherine & Monty Cupcake . Discussion Thread 2014 Review: This review can also be found at Carole's Random Life . 5 Stars! When I saw that some of my friends on Goodreads were getting a buddy read of this book organized, I jumped at the chance to join. I don't really know why I love this book so much. It actually has a few problems and I see them but I just don't care. I love this book anyway despite all of its flaws. This was actually the 4th time that I have read this book. Any book that I can enjoy after reading 4 times deserves 5 stars in my opinion. I first started reading these books before the HBO series was produced. When I first saw the show, I remember thinking that many of the actors seemed wrong for the characters that I had created in my mind. I found it amusing on this re-read of the book all I could think about were the television characters. I would like to warn anyone that decides to read these books because they like the television series that they are really two very different things. The first season of the show does follow this book pretty well but after that they really are two different stories that just happen to share the same characters. As I mentioned earlier, I did see some problems with this book. The writing isn't spectacular by any stretch. The writing seems overly simple to me. I really wished that the book focused on the exciting things going on in Sookie's life not on everyday things like cleaning. I sometimes feel like a total pig as I look around my messy house and read about Sookie cleaning hers. I really don't want to hear about cleaning. I really didn't feel a whole lot of chemistry going on between Bill and Sookie either. When they started saying that they loved each other, I thought it was a bit sudden and to be honest I just didn't see it myself. This book also seemed a bit dated to me. When Sookie is getting ready for Bill to come over, she puts her hair up in a banana clip. I remember wearing a banana clip in my hair during the late 80's and very early 90's but I don't think anyone was wearing them in 2001. Despite these problems, I still can find so much to love inside of this book. I fell in love with characters a long time ago and I understand that this re-read of the book was probably heavily influence by that. I really like Sookie. I like that she thinks of her telepathy as a disability instead of the superpower most people would consider it to be. As you read the book, you realize how horrible it really would be to be able to read other people's minds. Sookie goes through a lot in this book and I really thought she handled most things quite well. She does require saving from time to time but she isn't afraid to jump into dangerous situations either. I thought that the scenes with Eric were wonderful in this book. I am very partial to Eric. I can't help it and I really don't want to. Sam was great in this book but I did want to slap him for finally noticing Sookie after Bill shows an interest. I thought it was very realistic because people do this all the time but I still wanted to slap him because I hate it when this happens. I really had a good time reading about all of these characters and just remembering how these books sucked me into their world years ago. I do think that some of the later books in the series are stronger than this one. I would recommend this book to others with the explanation that they are quite different from the HBO series. This book is really a quick and easy read that can be a lot of fun. This book is really just candy in book form. Nothing serious, nothing substantial, but a whole lot of fun. My insightful 2011 review: I enjoyed this book. It was a quick, easy, and fun read. I am interested in seeing the HBO series after reading this book. ...more Notes from the reviewer's internal dialogue before reviewing this book You want to say this is, if not the worst book you\u2019ve ever read, one of the worst. Is your assertion accurate or are you engaging in hyperbole? I believe this is one of the worst books I have ever read. I didn\u2019t finish, giving up at the 60% mark, but I stand by the statement under the assumption that the author didn\u2019t turn into Shakespeare in the book\u2019s final third. The last book I read that even approached this nadir was some Notes from the reviewer's internal dialogue before reviewing this book You want to say this is, if not the worst book you\u2019ve ever read, one of the worst. Is your assertion accurate or are you engaging in hyperbole? I believe this is one of the worst books I have ever read. I didn\u2019t finish, giving up at the 60% mark, but I stand by the statement under the assumption that the author didn\u2019t turn into Shakespeare in the book\u2019s final third. The last book I read that even approached this nadir was some Nick Horby (sp?) novel about suicide. What made this book so bad? God, where to start? The writing is atrocious, the characters are badly drawn, and the plot is, well, let me just say, Charlie Sheen territory. Does that cover it? But what about the tv show? This is problematic. I like the tv show, what I\u2019ve seen anyway, and I can only congratulate the creators of True Blood for taking a subpar product and raising the framework to quality. I\u2019m reminded of how Buffy was a comedy before transforming into a high-quality series. Did you not like this book because you\u2019re a guy? Nah, that\u2019s not fair. I liked Twlight and Outlander . Shouldn\u2019t I have hated those books, too, since I have testicles? Maybe I\u2019d be more disposed to like this book were I testicle-free, I don\u2019t know, but I can\u2019t help but think that\u2019s an insult to women. Was the author\u2019s poor writing a result of her attempt to sound like a teenage girl? Man, I work with teenage girls, and they don\u2019t sound this stupid. Second, in my eyes the author uses the \u201cI\u2019m writing like a teenage girl\u201d excuse to put together lazy, thoughtless prose. I don\u2019t think Sookie sounds like a lovestruck teenage girl. She sounds like a sitcom parody of a lovestruck teenage girl. Some people said you paid too much attention to the writing and should just let go and go with the flow of the plot. What do you think? I think bad writing is bad writing, and I don\u2019t want to read bad writing. I like light, trashy books. I don\u2019t like bad light, trashy books. What about your friends who like this book? I would like to remind them that I own Amy Grant CDs. We all have our vices. Ok. I\u2019m going to put on a hazmat suit, get a set of tongs, and dispose of this book properly. I feel like I need to read something difficult to recalibrate my brain. Good riddance, Sookie. Your tv character looks great in her uniform, but on the page, you stink. ...more Buddy-read with these lovely ladies: Sh3lly , Sarah & Carole (With a hopeful guest appearance of Jess - because Jess & I read all the vampy-ness together, apparently :P) Let's see if Harris' written word can live up to (or surpass) this sexy-ass vamp: And beast: The Review: 2 Stars Where do I begin? Oh, I know! BILL! I have never been a fan of Bill. (In \"True Blood\" he always reminded me a bit more of a boring-ass tax accountant than a vampire, he just not vampiric to me....) So, yes, I knew Buddy-read with these lovely ladies: Sh3lly , Sarah & Carole (With a hopeful guest appearance of Jess - because Jess & I read all the vampy-ness together, apparently :P) Let's see if Harris' written word can live up to (or surpass) this sexy-ass vamp: And beast: The Review: 2 Stars Where do I begin? Oh, I know! BILL! I have never been a fan of Bill. (In \"True Blood\" he always reminded me a bit more of a boring-ass tax accountant than a vampire, he just not vampiric to me....) So, yes, I knew going into the beginning of this series that this book wouldn't really wow me. I mean look at this fuck: He does NOT set my blood boiling, in any way AT ALL!! On top of that, my two favourite characters from Season one in the show (Lafayette and Pam) are very minor characters in this one AND exceedingly one dimensional. It may be that this series just by and large doesn't work for me..... BUT I am going to venture on and see how Harris creates Eric and Alcide (My show crushes). I don't really have much else to say here.... I mean, this story has all the things I dislike in Paranormal fantasies: TSTL main character, Boring love interest, one dimensional secondary characters, yawn-worthy writing AND a story-line that is so thinly veiled a toddler could guess it..... window covering for a love story that makes me want to scream. Less Bill MORE Eric, Please!!! ...more Not for me. I'll admit it. After the watching the first season of True Blood a year ago, I picked up this book with some expectations: that it has (1) a lot of sex, (2) a lot of gore, (3) a lot of wild personalities and (4) never-ending hilarities \u00e0 la Jason's experience with V in the first season . [All illustrations of #4 removed for overt sexuality and dangerously addicting laughing spells for those inclined toward stupid humor, like I am] What did I get? A naive southern waitress with very stilted sense of I'll admit it. After the watching the first season of True Blood a year ago, I picked up this book with some expectations: that it has (1) a lot of sex, (2) a lot of gore, (3) a lot of wild personalities and (4) never-ending hilarities \u00e0 la Jason's experience with V in the first season . [All illustrations of #4 removed for overt sexuality and dangerously addicting laughing spells for those inclined toward stupid humor, like I am] What did I get? A naive southern waitress with very stilted sense of the world around her, and bland supporting characters with personalities like tepid tap water sparsely flavored with Kool-aid. What a misdirect. This is one of those rare books whose TV adaption is leagues better than the original book. To be fair, the show is exceptionally good--or at least, the first season is. It does a fantastic job establishing the sticky sensuality of the trashy side of Louisiana: the muggy heat, the beautiful half naked people living in trailers, trashy promiscuity tempered (okay, more like enhanced) by old fashioned quasi-Southern, quasi-Christian prudeness. Even the vampires do it! In the book, I didn't really see any of that. Partially, it's because the entire story is driven by Sookie's perspective. But mostly, the writing itself was, eh, lukewarm. I wasn't very convinced by Sookie and Bill's romance. The relationship between Sookie and the grandmother who raised her was mild, at best. There is very little descriptive writing to speak of, which is a shame since the setting of the book is so unique. One aspect of the book that I did enjoy, though, was being in Sookie's naive mind. She doesn't pretend to be perfect. She's prone to gossip and judging, and she has a fairly strong reason for not being with men. Despite some weird choices in fashion (still can't decide if it's a reflection of Charlaine Harris's own tastes or whether Sookie is a girl with a sickeningly sweet tendencies towards clothes suited for little girls) and her odd inclinations to be so focused on only Bill, Sookie is an interesting protagonist. Her mind reading disability wasn't quite so unbelievable, and despite the unusual talent, Sookie didn't come off as a Mary Sue. Also, props to Charlaine Harris for having the guts to apply the stereotype of the trashy, overly sexual, uneducated person on virtually every single character in the book, and still making it amusing and accessible to a very large readership. Overall, 2.5 to 3 stars for the effort and a few hours of amusement. Despite my criticism, the story as fun, sometimes annoying, and I didn't hate it. Recommended for people who want something mindless but fun. ...more Oh, where to begin with this book... I have read some truly atrocious writing, but this is by far the worst I have ever read. Not for content or context (though ridiculous as it was), but for the actual writing itself. Horrible! Right from the start, the author bombards you with trivial descriptions. Hurriedly she lets you know what everyone in town looks like by comparing in pairs; for each person introduced, they are only described by being compare/contrasted to the next person she introduces. Also Oh, where to begin with this book... I have read some truly atrocious writing, but this is by far the worst I have ever read. Not for content or context (though ridiculous as it was), but for the actual writing itself. Horrible! Right from the start, the author bombards you with trivial descriptions. Hurriedly she lets you know what everyone in town looks like by comparing in pairs; for each person introduced, they are only described by being compare/contrasted to the next person she introduces. Also, she prattles! So much! She writes as if she was trying to gossip with me! Everything is in a rush and without imagination. As if it is enough to give you details and be done- who needs depth? And she made sure everyone in town worth mentioning was at the bar right at the beginning of the book. Just get them all out of the way. I must also say, I cannot stand first person narrative at this point. First person does not consciously know that their eyes are \"screwing together\" or that their lips pull back in a wince. No one think about what their impulses are- that is why they are impulses. A 3rd person can tell me what someone's eyebrows are doing or that someone's ears wiggle, because we need the physical descriptors to tell us what is going on. If you are telling the story about yourself- just tell me what you're feeling! Don't try and describe your skeptiscism by how your chin tilted. Tell me by saying \"i was skeptical.\" That is why you are first person. You can tell me directly. Her writing is like that of a jr high short story. Too many cliches like the eyes screwing together. I've heard that in every bad YA novel I've ever read. It's lazy. It's so cheesy! The main character jumps between being a shy simple prude to a mentally oversexed vixen. And either way she is wearing a banana clip. And the sex! Ahhhhh! I was embarrassed for the author! Is this really what she thinks is sexy? Is this really what make's women's panties tingle? Here is a scene where Sookie tells Bill his vampire friends are dead, and he's wigging out about it \"As I comprehended my own danger, Bill gripped my upper arms. He pulled me to him, slowly. There was no point in struggling, in fact I senses that would only excite Bill more.\" ... \"...I could taste his rage. Directing that energy in another way might save me. I leaned in that inch and put my mouth on his chest. I licked the rain off, rubbed my cheek against his nipple, pressed myself against him.\" *Sigh. Ok. So her response to \"oh, he might kill me now\" is to direct the energy to his nipple? Seriously? So BAD!!! And it gets worse: \"He slid directly into me as if he were trying to reach through me to the soil. I shrieked, and he growled in response, as though we were truly mud people, primitives from the caves.\" Ahhhhhhhhhhh! Mud people?! And hahahahaha trying to reach to the soil. They're doing it in a cemetery, BTW, which I don't understand how after he crawled out of the ground (he was sleeping out of the sunlight in the dirt) and they started shagging that she didn't describe a yeast infection 3 pages later. \"I thought I would be plowed into this mud, into my own grave.\" Hahahahahahahahahaha! And she keeps catching me off guard with the sex! One minute they're talking, the next they're banging. I played a little game with myself and said out loud to my fiance when a sex scene came up. In one chapter, I said \"they're doing it again\" 4 times. 4 times! And I was ill prepared each time! And it wasn't even GOOD! Bill is always wanting to do her at the weirdest times! Oh, a vampire just tried to kill you and you're now covered in his blood because someone killed him? Surrender your minge. Ugh. And maybe because she knows she's a shitty writer? She leads off with \"'I don't know if I can do it anymore.' Turns out I could.\" Lazy Lazy LAZY! And Bill is always brushing/washing/braiding her hair! What a gay vampire! And for a fraction of a second Sookie is grossed out by her voluntary necrophilia when Sam says \"yeah, Bill really is dead and it's not a vampire-making virus that he's got\" she vomits. That's it. Just a little \"meh\" of ew about having dead-mud-guy sex and on she moves. This book keeps being sold as a \"supernatural murder mystery.\" No. No it isn't. Yes there is someone killing people, but it seriously is an after thought to the rest of the monstrosity that is Sookie and Bill's love affair. \"Oh, Bill is hot. Oh, someone killed my Gran. Oh, mud sex\" Also to note- when she finds her grandmother dead, seconds later, she is laughing about Bill's shirt. I think the author was trying to portray how out of it Sookie was at that point, how detached, but it did not translate well. Does no one proofread your work? Do you have no honest friends in your life? How did this book HAPPEN?! I read this book because I love the series (very cheesy as well, I know, but at least HBO knows how to write sex!) and though I've read tons of bad reviews, I didn't fully understand just how bad this book could be. Worst book ever. I know I've said that about a few, but I said those before I read this one. I'm not sure how I can top it. I can't get the taste of awful out of my brain! HBO really REALLY fixed this mess. I have no idea what they saw in this that was worth making into a show. And it sucks even more that for all the work HBO does to IMPROVE- VASTLY the crap that is her writing, she is banking on it. How! How did this happen?! And Elvis. Don't even get me started on the vampire formerly-known-as-Elvis who is now Bubba and eats cats. Just don't. Do NOT read this crap- please do not. I want her to stop. I will never be reading another book of hers again. Ever. Those quotes I gave? There are many MANY more snippets like that. That just made me laugh the most. ...more A quick, light fun urban fantasy read. Apparently this series is the basis for True Blood. As I don't really watch TV this doesn't mean anything to me! Will definitely continue intermittently and see how the series pans out. So finally, I meet Sookie Stackhouse. I am late to the party by about 15 years, but I really enjoyed making her acquaintance. I polished off the book in one evening and could quite happily have turned around and read it again right away. In fact I did go back and read my favourite sections again. I found Sookie to be a smart and feisty main character. Instead of her telepathy being an advantage, she has found it the ultimate in distracting, almost like a learning disability. So when she runs into So finally, I meet Sookie Stackhouse. I am late to the party by about 15 years, but I really enjoyed making her acquaintance. I polished off the book in one evening and could quite happily have turned around and read it again right away. In fact I did go back and read my favourite sections again. I found Sookie to be a smart and feisty main character. Instead of her telepathy being an advantage, she has found it the ultimate in distracting, almost like a learning disability. So when she runs into vampire Bill and finds that she is unable to hear his thoughts, she is immediately impressed. I loved her independence\u2014she does her own dirty work, for the most part, not relying on her boss, Sam, or her brother, Jason, to bail her out. Bill is an interesting vampire, in that he is so different from all the Lords of Darkness that one usually runs across in fiction. Here is a guy who has returned to his old home town and who seems to want nothing more than to settle back into small town Southern life. In that regard, his vampirism is a disability, bringing with it unwanted responsibilities and relationships. So, is there any future for this human-vampire couple? I note that there are many more books, and once I have made a dent in my current stack of library books, I\u2019ll be ordering the second one to check up on them. ...more Let me start off by saying I am not a prude. I may live in Utah. I may have only kissed one man in my life- but I have no problem with a little sex in a book. This went far beyond that. To the point that the story was no longer the story of clairvoyant girl meets vampire and they try to catch serial killer together. The story quickly became girl and vampire have sex together a lot. That bugged me. Rather than being interesting or even exciting- it was boring. Sex does not a plot make. The story Let me start off by saying I am not a prude. I may live in Utah. I may have only kissed one man in my life- but I have no problem with a little sex in a book. This went far beyond that. To the point that the story was no longer the story of clairvoyant girl meets vampire and they try to catch serial killer together. The story quickly became girl and vampire have sex together a lot. That bugged me. Rather than being interesting or even exciting- it was boring. Sex does not a plot make. The story went nowhere other than the bedroom for a good half of the book. I wish I had just quit and read something better. ...more Even though Bon Temps, Louisiana ain\u2019t urban by any stretch of the imagination, I would still classify this book as urban fantasy. So if you enjoyed popular series such as The Dresden Files by Jim Butcher and/or The Anita Blake Vampire Hunter Series by Laurell K. Hamilton, you might want to give Sookie Stackhouse a try. I\u2019m a fan of both and Sookie\u2019s series has been on my to-read list for at least a year at the time I write this. I\u2019ll admit the reason I hadn\u2019t picked this series up sooner is bec Even though Bon Temps, Louisiana ain\u2019t urban by any stretch of the imagination, I would still classify this book as urban fantasy. So if you enjoyed popular series such as The Dresden Files by Jim Butcher and/or The Anita Blake Vampire Hunter Series by Laurell K. Hamilton, you might want to give Sookie Stackhouse a try. I\u2019m a fan of both and Sookie\u2019s series has been on my to-read list for at least a year at the time I write this. I\u2019ll admit the reason I hadn\u2019t picked this series up sooner is because the name \u201cSookie Stackhouse\u201d was a major turnoff for me. Sookie ? Stackhouse ? That name is incredibly silly-stupid in my vocabulary and I had to jump a huge hurdle just to get past that. I don\u2019t know, maybe that kind of name is normal or cute when you\u2019re in Louisiana, but that\u2019s a world away from where I live in Minnesota, so it was a stretch for me and I had hard time NOT laughing anytime someone said/whispered/shouted Sookie\u2019s name. Although then I reminded myself that one of our TV stations in Minneapolis employs a weatherman named Sven and I have known several people over the course of my life who share names with Scandinavian mythological beings such as Freya, Odin and Thor and while that is perfectly normal in Minnesota and nobody bats an eye at names like that up here, the rest of the country is probably snickering behind their hands and thinking we\u2019re loony for clinging to our ancestors\u2019 pre-Christian pagan traditions (hellooo Minnesota Vikings!) Sookie Stackhouse is a blonde-haired, blue-eyed ditz with a \u201csubstantial bosom\u201d (her own words, by the way, this is a first-person narrated novel) who has made it to the ripe old age of 25 with her v-card still intact, mostly because she\u2019s a mind-reading telepath who can hear the thoughts of her would-be suitors (including the not-so-flattering stuff about her butt, her boobs, you name it) so she doesn\u2019t date much, and who can blame her? She also happens to be living in a parallel universe where vampires are \u201cout of the coffin\u201d and are recognized as a separate race of citizens in the United States. Sookie works as a waitress in a small-town bar so most of the characters in the book are introduced in relation to the bar. If they don\u2019t work there, they\u2019re bar patrons, and they all know \u201ccrazy\u201d Sookie, nicknamed so because of her ability to read minds (which she tries to keep under wraps, but a lot of people are on to her). Even though vampires are \u201cout\u201d in Sookie\u2019s world, she doesn\u2019t meet one until two years after their existence is announced. Bill Compton walks into the bar and Sookie is immediately drawn to him because he is the only man she\u2019s ever met whose mind she can\u2019t read. Bill is attempting to live in mainstream human society and is an interesting character because he has historic roots in Bon Temps, Louisiana. The Compton family has lived in the area for over a century and Bill himself was alive during the Civil War and fought on the side of the Confederacy. He was married with kids at the time so the family name was passed down over the generations. The latest Compton had recently passed away before Bill moved back to Bon Temps to take up residence in the family\u2019s home. Shortly after Bill arrives in Bon Temps, a number of mysterious deaths occur in rapid succession. So whodunit? Well, that\u2019s for you to find out for yourself when you read the book, which is straight up murder mystery with a vampy twist. A few other things to keep your eyes peeled for are an Elvis sighting, a handful of not-hot sex scenes and probably the worst ever come-on I\u2019ve ever heard in my life: \"I want to enter you again.\" Ew, Bill. Just ew. This book read like a first novel to me, even though it's not. There were several awkward sentences and there were parts of it that felt choppy. I felt the same way about the first couple books in LKH\u2019s Anita Blake series, which improved significantly over time (before spinning off in another oh-so-weird direction, but we won\u2019t go there because this is about Sookie, not Anita,) so I definitely plan to give the next Sookie book a shot and see where it goes, because Anita\u2019s series started off slow and awkward as well and blossomed into a series that, for me, is at crack-addition level, even though Anita\u2019s sex-life does sort of gross me out (but again, now isn\u2019t the time or the place go there). So while I can\u2019t say I\u2019m totally in love with Sookie at this point, I did enjoy this novel quite a bit and see some potential for a fun time, so I\u2019m glad I put the request in at the library for the second novel because Sookie has some potential. It was an entertaining fast read and now I don\u2019t have to feel guilty for watching HBO\u2019s \u201cTrue Blood\u201d, which is based off this series. ...more This book is one of the most entertaining books I've ever read. It has comedy, suspense, romance and fantasy! What more could you possibly want? Clearly the author has a very twisted sense of humour which I loved! There was one 'incident/character' that had me laughing so hard I nearly fell of my chair! At this point I should say that I'm not a huge Vampire fan and I've only recently come to the Paranormal Romance sub genre. I've read and loved the Twilight series but when characters of Twilight This book is one of the most entertaining books I've ever read. It has comedy, suspense, romance and fantasy! What more could you possibly want? Clearly the author has a very twisted sense of humour which I loved! There was one 'incident/character' that had me laughing so hard I nearly fell of my chair! At this point I should say that I'm not a huge Vampire fan and I've only recently come to the Paranormal Romance sub genre. I've read and loved the Twilight series but when characters of Twilight could be annoying, characters who have the same potential to be as annoying in this book are just hilarious instead. Charlaine Harris has created some of the most entertaining characters I've read in recent times. As the book is written in first person, being inside Sookie\u2019s head is an experience. Sookie Stackhouse is just a \u2018waitress\u2019, Bill is a \u2018Vampire\u2019, her dear sweet Grandma encourages her to go out with him. Sookie has the \u2018disability\u2019 of being telepathic, which she hates and makes it impossible for her to live a normal life. Now I\u2019m not one for blood and gore, in fact, I hate it and usually avoid those types of books. But whilst this book had a fair amount of violence in it, it wasn\u2019t bad enough to bother me. I remember saying \u2018yuck\u2019 out loud at one point but don\u2019t remember why. I\u2019d recommend this book to anyone who likes paranormal, vampires or just plain comedy. This is a fantastic read! ...more", "Title": "Dead Until Dark"},
