{"Comments": "\"Shadow Kiss\" left us with Rose on the way to find and kill her beloved Dimitri who had fallen during a fight with Strigoi. \"<+++>Blood Promise</+++>\" picks up where Rose is in Moscow, looking for traces of Dimitri. Needless to say,<---M> she finds him</---M>, but I will not go into any more detail to avoid spoilers. I hate to say it, but I am fairly disappointment by this book. In my opinion, it is so far the weakest in the series. It is by no means the worst book ever written, but the fact that <---A>Richelle Mead</---A> didn't p \"Shadow Kiss\" left us with Rose on the way to find and kill her beloved Dimitri who had fallen during a fight with Strigoi. \"<+++>Blood Promise</+++>\" picks up where Rose is in Moscow, looking for traces of Dimitri. Needless to say, she finds him, but I will not go into any more detail to avoid spoilers. I hate to say it, but I am fairly disappointment by this book. In my opinion, it is so far the weakest in the series. It is by no means the worst book ever written, but the fact that Richelle Mead didn't put much work into it is obvious. Let me start with the positives however. Upon finishing the book I am slightly less devastated than after reading \"Shadow Kiss,\" so here is an improvement.<---F> Some action sequences are pretty good</---F>. Unfortunately, that's about it for the good stuff. On the negative side, the book really suffers from separation of Rose and Lissa. In this book Mead attempts to have two story lines going simultaneously - Lissa's and Rose's, but neither of them is particularly exciting. Plus, because the series is written from Rose's POV, the difficulty of relaying Lissa's story is solved by utilizing Rose's spirit-bond ability to get into Lissa's thoughts. What doesn't work however is that somehow Rose can not only see what's going on with Lissa at the moment, but she can also \"rewind\" her experiences and thoughts. This seems like a pretty poor plot device in my opinion. Plus, Lissa's story is rather lame and takes away too much from the final altercation between Rose and Dimitri - the best part of the book. The familiar characters we met in first 3 books - Christian, Mia, Eddie, even Victor Dashkov are amiss. Instead we are introduced to an array of new characters both in U.S. and Russia who don't really serve much of a purpose for the main story line, rather they are created to fill in pages, and it is very apparent. Mead also relies very heavily on flashbacks and memories of Dimitri that were never mentioned in previous books and at some point I started wondering, do I really want to know this much about Dimitri? I already love him and adding info like \"he bakes bread for himself because he loves it so much\" is not really necessary, in fact it almost kills the mystery around his persona. What else? The story drags in some parts, the \"spirit battle\" is too confusing, quite a few inconsistencies. Overall, just a lazily written book IMO. I think when the series is finished and we look back at \"Blood Promise\" we will think that this book could have been easily omitted. Maybe I will feel differently about \"Blood Promise\" when I re-read it, but as this point I am rather saddened by it... ...more The third book of the vampire academy series left all of us hanging. All of us wanting more. & all of us with the same question, what happened to dimitri?! Blood promise is everything i could have hoped for. It made me cry. And laugh. And sometimes both. It threw our hope away, then brought it back at the last moment. It was truly a great book. Rose meets her father, unknowingly at first. We actually see emotion from her mother. We see Adrians true dedication to rose, and how much he honestl The third book of the vampire academy series left all of us hanging. All of us wanting more. & all of us with the same question, what happened to dimitri?! Blood promise is everything i could have hoped for. It made me cry. And laugh. And sometimes both. It threw our hope away, then brought it back at the last moment. It was truly a great book. Rose meets her father, unknowingly at first. We actually see emotion from her mother. We see Adrians true dedication to rose, and how much he honestly cares. The story also included a few flash backs with Dimitri that were not in any of the other books. In this last book, rose definetly became more mature. She made heartbreaking decisions. & blood promise, like shadow kissed, left us with a major cliff hanger...But hope still hangs on a thread. I absoluletly loved this book. Richelle Mead is truly an amazing writer. She managed to make this book perfect, and it was never corny. The only part i regret, is that her fifth book, spirit bound won't be out until May 18 2010. I CAN'T WAIT!!! There is suppose to be one other book after spirit bound and possibly a spin off(<---B> i read on her site</---B>). I would defienely recomend reading blood promise. But of course if you read the 4th book, you can't wait to read this book. ...more OMG! ABOUT BLOOD PROMISE, MY BEST FRIEND HAD A DREAM THAT ROSE HAD DIMITRIS BABY .I NOE THAT THEY CANT HAVE ANY BUT IT WAZ DIS KIND OF MESSED UP THING THAT HAPPENED, SO THEY HAD A BABY. ROSE WENT TO RUSSIA SO SHE COULD FIND DIMITRI AND SHE FINDS HIM. SHE SHOWS HIM THE BABY THEN SHE LEAVES HIM ALIVE.WHEN SHE MET HIM THERE WAZ SOMETHING DIFFERANT ABOUT HIM AND GUESS WAT? HE KINDA LOOKS LIKE A HUMAN INSTEAD OF A STRIGOI SHE ASKES HIM WHY AND HE HAD A THEORY THAT WHEN HE DOESNT DRINK BLOOD HE THINK OMG! ABOUT BLOOD PROMISE, MY BEST FRIEND HAD A DREAM THAT ROSE HAD DIMITRIS BABY .I NOE THAT THEY CANT HAVE ANY BUT IT WAZ DIS KIND OF MESSED UP THING THAT HAPPENED, SO THEY HAD A BABY. ROSE WENT TO RUSSIA SO SHE COULD FIND DIMITRI AND SHE FINDS HIM. SHE SHOWS HIM THE BABY THEN SHE LEAVES HIM ALIVE.WHEN SHE MET HIM THERE WAZ SOMETHING DIFFERANT ABOUT HIM AND GUESS WAT? HE KINDA LOOKS LIKE A HUMAN INSTEAD OF A STRIGOI SHE ASKES HIM WHY AND HE HAD A THEORY THAT WHEN HE DOESNT DRINK BLOOD HE THINKS HE TURNS MORE HUMAN SO HES TRYING TO TURN HUMAN & I THINK ITS WORKING!!!!!!!!BUT HE ALWAYS HAS MOOD SWINGS AND LOOKS ALOT WEAKER THAN USUAL 'CAUSE HE DOESNT DARE DRINK BLOOD!SHE THEN GOES TO SEE LISA IN THE ROYAL COURT..AND GUESS WAT?????????? SHES MARRIED TO ADRIAN!!!!!!! CAN U BELIEVE IT? SO ANYWHO..ROSE GOES TO LISSA AND LISSAS HAPPY. CHRISTIAN AND LISA ARNT TOGETHER BUT CHRISTIAN, EVEN THOUGHT HE HATES ROYAL STUFF, HE JOINS EVERYTHING THAT IS ROYAL BECAUSE HE STILL LIKES LISA. LISA STILL LIKES HIM THOUGHT. SHE MARRIED ADRIAN JUST TO MAKE THE QUEEN HAPPY. DIMITRIS POINT OF VIEW HE MEETS ROSE IN RUSSIA THEN SHE LEAVES. WHEN SHE LEAVES HE GOES TO THE ROYAL COURT DAYS LATER. THE THING I CANT BELIEVE IS THAT WHEN HE GOES TO THE ROYAL COURT HE CAN PASS THE WARDS THAT THEY PUT IN THERE!!!!!! HE GOES IN THEN LISA SEES HIM AND HE THEN TELLS HER HIS THEORY THEN SHE TAKES HIM TO ROSE IN LISA'S ROOM. LISA THEN TAKES ROSE'S BABY SO THAT ROSE AND DIMITRI COULD HAVE SOME TIME TOGETHER! WHEN ROSE AND DIMITRI ARE done. THEY GO TO THIS CAFE PLACE. WHEN ROSE AND DIMITRI ARE TALKING GAURDIANS SHOW UP AND ARE SURPRISED THAT DIMITRI IS ALIVE WHEN HE IS SUPPOSED TO BE A STRIGOI. WHEN DIMITRI TELL THEM HIS THEORY THEY SAY EVEN THOUGH HE IS PART HUMAN(!) HE HAS TO GET OUT OF THERE. THEN OTHER GARDIANS SHOW UP AND TAKE HIM SOMEWHERE. THE BAD THING IS THAT MY BEST FRIEND WOKE UP THEN, CRYING . CANT WAIT AND SEE IF ITS LIKE MY FRIENDS DREAM!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! P.S THE BABY IS A BOYYYYYYY!!!(I THINK) ...more *3.5 Stars* The main reason I'm rating this one lower than the previous three? The first 300 pages were BORING. (-1 star) This book could almost have started on page 300 and still have been great. I understand the need for back story, but I was frustrated and annoyed at how much I had to slog through to get to the main story of the book. Setting the stage is one thing, dragging things out to artificially create tension and mood is another. I rounded up to 4 stars because I was genuinely surprised *3.5 Stars* The main reason I'm rating this one lower than the previous three? The first 300 pages were BORING. (-1 star) This book could almost have started on page 300 and still have been great. I understand the need for back story, but I was frustrated and annoyed at how much I had to slog through to get to the main story of the book. Setting the stage is one thing, dragging things out to artificially create tension and mood is another. I rounded up to 4 stars because I was genuinely surprised by some of the revelations. I'm told I might be dense though so it's very possible these things might become clear sooner to other readers. I try not to think too hard when I'm reading for entertainment so this might just mean I'm easier to surprise. It's hard to talk about this book without spoiling what happens in the previous one, so stop reading if you haven't read Shadow Kiss yet! First off, I love the new Dimitri. I was hoping Adrian would get his chance with Rose after Dimitri was turned because I honestly never felt that Dimitri and Rose were a real couple. She had a sad case of hero-worship and he was just kind of lame and blah. And if I have to hear her describe him as a god one more time, so help me ... but now, Dimitri is kind of hot. I like him evil like I liked Angel as Angelus in Buffy. I can't help but compare the two characters, and it's a comparison that I'm not upset about. Dimitri finally has some personality! He doesn't just feel like a broody man that Rose has put up on a pedestal. I like my men broody, but not mopey and broody which is the vibe I got from Dimitri in the beginning. Now he feels REAL, and he has some life to him. Which is sort of ironic, huh? Maybe evil characters are just more fun to write? (+0.25 stars) There are some other new characters thrown into the mix in this one; a few I liked and a few I'm glad met their end. Abe is definitely going to be an important player and one that I hope to see in the next novel. I thought the Belikovs were interesting but ... unimportant? It was kind of a weird side quest that Rose went on, and I understand the purpose it served, but still, kind of pointless. Same with <---C>Sydney</---C> and her whole situation; it really felt like that was all thrown in at the last minute. Also, I was annoyed with all the trips Rose took into Lissa's head ; it was a poor plot device and one that had just recently shown up in Succubus Shadows too, so I wasn't all that thrilled to see it repeated again. Plus, it was way too coincidental that every time Rose was listening in, her friends would be talking about her. It was all just too convenient. (-0.25 stars) On top of the trips into Lissa's head, we're also granted with a bunch of flashbacks to conversations and stories about Dimitri and Rose that haven't appeared previously. The same thing happened with Georgina too and it feels like Mead is having trouble lately fleshing out a completely new story; she keeps choosing to backtrack instead. I think she's getting dangerously in need of a new editor. (-0.25 stars) I also wasn't too happy about the ending, though it was definitely one I did see coming a mile away. It makes me mad that Rose decides to finally throw Adrian a bone, but with the way things ended you know she's just going to toss him aside for her quest. He's the victim in all of this. Poor guy. Other people have said that this book really doesn't move the main plot along and we're basically right back at the end of Shadow Kiss. But, that's not all together true. Sure, not much has changed in the grand scheme of things, but Rose has new friends, new knowledge, and (hopefully) a new outlook on what's to come. I don't think she could have gotten to where she is at the end of this book if she hadn't gone through the events of this book. But one more thing: a hedge maze? Seriously? (-0.25 stars) My reviews of books two and three: Frostbite and Shadow Kiss . ...more This series has taken over my life completely and I am in no way complaining bUT HOW DOES ONE MAKE A PERSON FEEL SO MANY DIFFERENT THINGS I DONT UNDERSTAND WHAT IM SUPPOSED TO DO WITH MY LIFE RIGHT NOW SURE I COULD START THE NEXT BOOK BUT I ACTUALLY CANNOT FUNCTION BECAUSE OF THIS ENDING AND IM KIND OF HOPEFULLY BUT ALSO IN A LOT OF PAIN AND THERES A LOT OF INTERNAL SCREAMING GOING ON GOOD AND BAD AND I JUST DONT KNOW WHAT TO SAY OR DO OKAY I JUST LOVE THIS SERIES OK First half of the book: Rose has to go a hard way full of stones and death and pain. She meets Sydney and Dimitri's family and gets to know his world. Rose is ready to do anything to find and to kill him. And finally, she finds him... Second half of the book: Dimitri as a Strigoi. A very very evil version of Dimitri. A passionated one, but still evil. He is brutal, he is merciless. He is completely different from the Dimitri we know. And the relationship between him and Rose changes completely. E First half of the book: Rose has to go a hard way full of stones and death and pain. She meets Sydney and Dimitri's family and gets to know his world. Rose is ready to do anything to find and to kill him. And finally, she finds him... Second half of the book: Dimitri as a Strigoi. A very very evil version of Dimitri. A passionated one, but still evil. He is brutal, he is merciless. He is completely different from the Dimitri we know. And the relationship between him and Rose changes completely. Everything changes. (view spoiler) [ \"That\u2019s what I was supposed to say. . .\u201d he gasped out. Those were his last words. (hide spoiler) ] This book broke my heart. It is exciting and cruel and unfair and... I love it. I love the whole series. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more The time has come. It doesn't matter that I read this book forever and a day ago. Blood Promise deserves a review - one that I wrongfully neglected to give at the time of finishing. The 5 star rating at the top says nothing about why I loved this book back then, nor does it say why I still think about this story even now. I doubt I'll ever go back and write reviews for the rest of the series but this book...it's in my soul. Don't expect one of my normal polished reviews. I just wanted to finally The time has come. It doesn't matter that I read this book forever and a day ago. Blood Promise deserves a review - one that I wrongfully neglected to give at the time of finishing. The 5 star rating at the top says nothing about why I loved this book back then, nor does it say why I still think about this story even now. I doubt I'll ever go back and write reviews for the rest of the series but this book...it's in my soul. Don't expect one of my normal polished reviews. I just wanted to finally put some random thoughts down about one of my all time favorite books. So why was a middle-of-the-series book my favorite? Two words : Primal Dimitri . I can't honestly say more outside of spoiler tags. If you haven't read up through at least book 3, you absolutely don't want to look or you'll have the biggest plot surprise spoiled, and this is one thing you really don't want to have spoiled. Someone spoiled it for me and I missed out on getting to experience the crazy shock of book 3's ending. (view spoiler) [Okay, so I know...big bad evil Dimitri is \"technically\" not romantic, not cute, not sane. Run away from the scary killer man, blah, blah, blah. But go with me on this : I loved Dimitri's character pre-transformation. He was honorable, loyal, strong, brave, etc. etc. etc. But he was tormented by his good character. He STRUGGLED with wanting Rose. He WANTED to do the right thing and fought his desires as much as he could. It was part of what made him such an admiral person. I felt like he was able to look past Rose's age because she was more of a peer to him than a student. Anyway, I'm not going to debate whether or not he should have even gone there because I know some people disapproved (with good reason). So when he was turned and he lost part of himself, it was intriguing to watch his honor get kicked to the side in favor of satisfying raw need. He didn't fully understand why he wanted Rose, he just knew that she was what he wanted... and he went for it. In any other book, I would have been flying the \"abuse is wrong\" flag...but in this book, I relished the thought of watching such a carefully crafted Guardian throw it all away and take what he wanted. His complete character change worked because it was such a contrast to who he really was as a person. It felt like some of his subconscious desires that had been there all along were made manifest in his new Strigoi persona. (hide spoiler) ] Anyway, I've been thinking about this book more and more because of the upcoming Rose & Dimitri in Russia story that will be released shortly. I can't wait for this because I felt like it was the one part of book 4 which we didn't get to see closure on. Dear Dimka, If it doesn't work out with Rose, you have my number. Call me. Love, A person who will still be thinking about you after everyone else has moved on to the next flavor of the week. ...more I'm about to cry right now... That was fu**ing beautiful. Once again, I absolutely loved this and it was a roller coaster ride HOWEVER it was a bit dull in some parts and I felt it dragged a bit. I adored it though, and that ending/bridge scene omg 4.5/5 This book was really good! I'm still trying to get over the major twist at the ending which I was kind of expecting but I didn't know that it would be that big. The one thing that I didn't like with this book was that Lissa was kind of \"whiny.\" In Rose's views from her eyes, we were able to see what was going on back at St. Vladimir Academy. I was excited to read this since it might had some more action, which it did, but it wasn't enough to out way Lissa. At the end of the 3rd book, I was d 4.5/5 This book was really good! I'm still trying to get over the major twist at the ending which I was kind of expecting but I didn't know that it would be that big. The one thing that I didn't like with this book was that Lissa was kind of \"whiny.\" In Rose's views from her eyes, we were able to see what was going on back at St. Vladimir Academy. I was excited to read this since it might had some more action, which it did, but it wasn't enough to out way Lissa. At the end of the 3rd book, I was disappointed in Lissa and it got even worse in this book. She did get better toward the end which was good. Another thing I didn't like was about Christian and his relationship with Lissa. I know that Lissa was changing because of the magic, but still. Give her a break and work through it. I thought that he was being a little dramatic. Rose is still my favorite character, especially since she is going through many hardships and emotional and physical turmoil. I can't wait to see how she is in the next book. There were many sad parts in this book and I had to look away to calm myself so I wouldn't start crying. I was really upset about Dmitri since I liked him and that ending! I hope that he's going to be alright. There was a cliffhanger at the end of Blood Promise but it was a good kind because come on, what else is the 5th book going to be about? I'm about to find out and I'm very happy to. ...more This was very interesting and heart-breaking. Meeting Dimitri's family was a unique experience. I really feel like Rose developed a lot as a character and she's definitely more likable now than she was in the beginning,however,unfortunately,Lisa is getting on my nerves a little bit. What's been annoying in this book is that Lisa seems more angry at Rose for leaving her than being actually worried for Rose. I mean,for God's sake, Rose has her own life and her own problems that she needs to solve, This was very interesting and heart-breaking. Meeting Dimitri's family was a unique experience. I really feel like Rose developed a lot as a character and she's definitely more likable now than she was in the beginning,however,unfortunately,Lisa is getting on my nerves a little bit. What's been annoying in this book is that Lisa seems more angry at Rose for leaving her than being actually worried for Rose. I mean,for God's sake, Rose has her own life and her own problems that she needs to solve,the world doesn't just revolve around the royal moroi. The whole aspect of Rose going to Dimitri's hometown was really interesting and I really enjoyed reading about her adventures and her journey. I wish I could say that I like Sydney since there's a whole spin-off for her and Adrian (unfortunately I'm not really attached to him either) but I don't. She's not annoying but simply boring. The ending was... amazing. Haha, really looking forward to reading the next book. Let's take a moment to appreciate this amazing line which made me laugh so hard. And I was in class. *I regret nothing sociology professor!* (view spoiler) [ \u201cOh God,\" I said. \"I'm Zmey's daughter. Zmey junior. Zmeyette, even.\u201d (hide spoiler) ] Bye.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more So 1st I have to say that I love Mead. But this book was only OK to Good for me which I guess was a disappointment. I think she could have & has done much better. To summarize, I didn't feel as emotionally connected to the characters & I expected to be, esp after the last book. But also - I think structurally, the book was too condensed & didn't have to be. OK so here I go, SPOILERS for VA #4 - BLOOD PROMISE BELOW: I felt there was far too much recap of the previous 3 books. Literally So 1st I have to say that I love Mead. But this book was only OK to Good for me which I guess was a disappointment. I think she could have & has done much better. To summarize, I didn't feel as emotionally connected to the characters & I expected to be, esp after the last book. But also - I think structurally, the book was too condensed & didn't have to be. OK so here I go, SPOILERS for VA #4 - BLOOD PROMISE BELOW: I felt there was far too much recap of the previous 3 books. Literally - it was the entire first 25% of the book. Actually a bit more. I felt she wasted words, describing scenes & scenarios that didn't need to take up that much space & there could've have been far more time spent on the meat of the story & character development - to me (Rose esp) stayed very.....level. There weren't major emotional ups or downs & when the \"epiphanies came\" I didn't feel that were as startling & profound as they could've been. The ending, I felt was all very rushed & wrapped up. The make-up with Lissa, Adrian, the school, Christian, her mom & even Abe, in order to get to the 'Surprise!' ending that Dimitri is pulling an Angel & coming after Rose. How predictable. Like we didn't know he was still alive? Esp. after that anti-climatic bridge scene? And then the whole, \"it's a fairy tale\" bit about the ring.....? But the fact that Rose didn't have really have an emotional aftermath after doing something like killing D. - especially after leaving everyone, hunting him for 5 months & being held captive by him for weeks while he's Strigoi- was not only a bit shocking for me, bit tipped me off that he wasn't really dead. That & also, knowing Rose is getting 6 books, I figured Mead wouldn't have him die so soon (although, I think she should have done it - it would've wiped out the major Buffy storyline comparisons that are coming). And I get it.... Why Rose wasn't allowed the emotional aftermath & the reason is b'c Mead spent too much wasted time the 1st quarter of the book, so by the end, she had to hurry & cram in all action (Avery/Lissa), in order to get Rose home pronto so everyone could forgive her quickly. So here's the thing - did Rose have a lobotomy? Where was she? Throughout the whole book I felt she lacked energy & no, not b'c she was in a blood induced haze. She just wasn't believable. When she was recounting her time with Dimitri at his funeral - it was funny b'c Rose asks Sydney how everyone seemed to know about her & Dimka & Syd tells her that it was written all over her face & I thought, I assume so. I guess you had to be there b'c I'm with Rose, how the hell could they even tell, b'c her words in her grief was so underwhelming. Even when she encounters Dimitri for the 1st time - it lacked the full emotional impact for me. And her dream sequences with Adrian?? She was acting liked a spoiled child. Had she learned nothing over the past 4 weeks (& that's the other thing - I figured she was gone for like, 3 months - 5 weeks??! That's it!)? Dimitri as Strigoi? There were parts that were genuinely chilling but I felt it really could've had been much more intense. Much scarier. Much more confusing for Rose. Sorry Mead - but if you're gonna pull an Bad Angel before he gets his soul back again, you should've taken better notes. But...obviously, The hunt is for the next book but I'll get to this in a bit. I'm annoyed by her use of Adrian, I feel like he is more of a prop than anything else. Which is a shame. To me, he shouldn't be relegated to Scooby Gang/Xander status. I thought Christian not really cottoning on & giving up on Lissa so quickly was yet another fault of early plot timing being wasted. He tells Lissa it had been rough b'c the time before the incident at the Royal Court, she got so mad b'c he wasn't going. Umm.....that was only one other time. It didn't get bad until Avery was there so presumably, that was the only major fight (& it wasn't even) that we saw. Christian is smarter that that & knows Lissa better than that & all she has been dealing with in battling the darkness of spirit. Another quickly dealt with scenario I didn't buy. And really, how stupid could Rose be? She was in Lissa's head for god's sake! Not to realize that there was something very wrong was Mead having a major brain fart to allow that. It bothered me that she didn't smarten up until it was almost too late. These people are supposed to be BEST FRIENDS. Not only that but BONDED by something hugely mystical. Are you kidding? Personally, I think if Mead spent less time recapping the 1st 3 books, she could have had a narrative prologue about what happened & left it at that. Then, started off the book w/ Rose grappling with her grief more genuinely & had Dimitri enter quicker. I think it would have been more successful suspense wise, to have had both his capture of her & her kill of him happen much earlier. The reason being, I think it would've been much, MUCH more of an emotional impact if Mead showed the poignant in the aftermath of Rose killing Dimitri by her returning to school & trying to adjust & make amends & just get on. Mead could've shown all the new adjustments & more personal growth which came as a result. Then, once she starts putting her life back together, things are starting to look brighter, she starts dating Adrian.. the reader gets comfortable by having had time to believe/ adjust that Dimitri is actually dead...THEN pull out the big surprise guns. That's when Dimitri's hunt of her & her loved ones begin. Even better, have it start anonymously for the last few chapters (at least) & then the big cliffhanger would've been the package & note. That would've been seriously cool & chilling. But instead, the book left me feeling it lacked heart. It just emotionally plateaued the whole time. Yeah, I was disappointed. There was also continuity issues. When Rose is held captive, she was clearly there for a few days & yet when she enters Lissa's head, Lissa was feeling guilty for the kiss incident from the night before. I seriously hope Mead loses the need to do such heavy recapping 5 books in. I have no idea why the publishers make author's do that. I mean, I do but it's a HUGE waste of talent & smacks of money grubbing & I hope Mead doesn't buy into it as much with the next book. Anyone that is going to pick up a series which is NOT stand alone, should have the smarts enough to read from the beginning. It's the reader's own fault if they're too lazy not to. (BIG SIGH) I just love Richelle Mead so much as an author. I just wish this was up to her usual standard. ...more If I had to give the first 3/4 of this book a review, I would have given it two stars at the most. The plot was painfully, agonizingly slow with many, many unnecessary characters and plotlines that just bugged the hell out of me. I found myself skipping large portions of text to get to anything worth reading. The last quarter of this book however, earned that last two stars. It was intense, amazing, beautiful. I almost cried. I wanted to cry. What happened at the end... on the bridge... well bugge If I had to give the first 3/4 of this book a review, I would have given it two stars at the most. The plot was painfully, agonizingly slow with many, many unnecessary characters and plotlines that just bugged the hell out of me. I found myself skipping large portions of text to get to anything worth reading. The last quarter of this book however, earned that last two stars. It was intense, amazing, beautiful. I almost cried. I wanted to cry. What happened at the end... on the bridge... well bugger me! Then at the very end with the note... gah! Be still my beating heart! The Avery/Lissa side story was complete rubbish. Everyone's casual treatment of Adrian was complete rubbish. The deal with Abe annoys the hell out of me for many reasons that I can't put here unless I spoil things. But the ending... that beautiful ending made up for all of it. ...more Y yo que pens\u00e9 que no pod\u00eda haber un libro m\u00e1s intenso en esta saga que el tercero, \u00a1vaya si estaba equivocada! Leer este libro fue como estar en un hoyo oscuro horroroso en el que lo \u00fanico que pensabas es... SPOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOILER DEL LIBRO PASADO. DEJA DE LEER... EST\u00c1S AVISADO... SI SIGUES LEYENDO ES BAJO TU PROPIO RIESGO... NO DIGAS QUE NO TE LO ADVERT\u00cd... \u00bfSIGUES LEYENDO Y NO HAS LE\u00cdDO EL TERCERO? VETE. ... lo \u00fanico que pensabas es \"Dimitri es un strigoi. Rose va a matarlo. Rose no va Y yo que pens\u00e9 que no pod\u00eda haber un libro m\u00e1s intenso en esta saga que el tercero, \u00a1vaya si estaba equivocada! Leer este libro fue como estar en un hoyo oscuro horroroso en el que lo \u00fanico que pensabas es... SPOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOILER DEL LIBRO PASADO. DEJA DE LEER... EST\u00c1S AVISADO... SI SIGUES LEYENDO ES BAJO TU PROPIO RIESGO... NO DIGAS QUE NO TE LO ADVERT\u00cd... \u00bfSIGUES LEYENDO Y NO HAS LE\u00cdDO EL TERCERO? VETE. ... lo \u00fanico que pensabas es \"Dimitri es un strigoi. Rose va a matarlo. Rose no va a poder vivir con eso. Nunca van a poder estar juntos\". Ese fue como el mantra del 80% del libro y me destru\u00eda todos los feels de la vida. Promesa de Sangre es un libro puramente emocional, que juega con todos los sentimientos: los de los personajes y los de los lectores; es un libro que releer\u00eda una y otra vez de manera masoquista porque est\u00e1 tan bien escrito y transmite tan bien todo lo que siente Rose que la lectura se vuelve una experiencia \u00fanica. El viaje que emprende Rose en Promesa de Sangre para cumplir con el voto que hab\u00eda hecho junto a Dimitri de matarlo si alguna vez se convert\u00eda en strigoi es la l\u00ednea central del libro. Vemos c\u00f3mo Rose se las apa\u00f1a para llegar desde Montana hasta las estepas siberianas de Rusia y encontrar el pueblo donde naci\u00f3 Dimitri, que es donde ella cree que \u00e9l ha ido. En medio de todo, Rose siempre tiene actitud de dura, de que puede con todo, pero es s\u00f3lo una tapadera porque por dentro est\u00e1 destrozada. Hay pocas cosas que puedo decir del libro sin entrar en spoilers, pero lo que s\u00ed dir\u00e9 es que, al menos hasta el momento, es de los libros que m\u00e1s me han llegado al coraz\u00f3n este a\u00f1o. Y s\u00ed, d\u00edganme loca por tener sentimientos tan reales hacia personajes ficticios, \u00bfY QU\u00c9 LE HAGO? Quiero decir que sigo detestando a Lissa a pesar del papel que puede que llegue a jugar m\u00e1s adelante... aunque si soy sincera, mis bazas est\u00e1n puestas completamente en Adrian, que es un chico genial. S\u00ed, en los libros anteriores tampoco lo quer\u00eda mucho, pero sus sentimientos son tan sinceros que es imposible no quererlo y no sentir un poco de l\u00e1stima por \u00e9l, aunque seguro que es lo \u00faltimo que le gustar\u00eda. Ahora, todo lo que presiento que va a pasar en los siguientes libros involucrando a Lissa, Adrian, Ibrahim y en especial a los alquimistas me intriga MUCH\u00cdSIMO. Ahora y como no puedo aguantarme m\u00e1s, voy a comentar algunas cosas con spoilers, as\u00ed que si no has le\u00eddo este libro, vete ya. TE ESTOY AVISANDO. VOY A ESCRIBIR SPOILERS ABAJO. OJO. SOLDADO AVISADO NO MUERE EN GUERRA. -LALALA- MUCHOS SPOILERS. VOY A DESTRIPAR EL LIBRO. EST\u00c1S AVISADO. OKAY? OKAY. A partir de aqu\u00ed todo es un poco inconexo porque LOS FEELS. Ese momento en el que Rose llega \"coincidencialmente\" a la casa de los Belikov en Baia y empieza a conocer m\u00e1s a fondo a la familia es muy duro T_T. Y encima todo y todos le recuerdan de alguna manera a Dimitri, as\u00ed que se me part\u00eda el coraz\u00f3n mucho, mucho, mucho. Yo siempre supe en el fondo que cuando Rose encontrara a Dimitri en su versi\u00f3n strigoi le har\u00eda falta coraje para acabar con \u00e9l. Pero son esos peque\u00f1os momentos de vacilaci\u00f3n los que muestran cu\u00e1nto lo ama y yo me muero de amor por eso. Es decir, s\u00ed, quer\u00eda darle una bofetada a Rose porque esos momentos de vacilaci\u00f3n le pod\u00edan costar la vida, pero a\u00fan as\u00ed... *suspiro*. Volvamos a Dimitri en versi\u00f3n strigoi. No s\u00e9 por qu\u00e9 siempre tuve la idea de los strigoi como vampiros locos rabiosos que no pod\u00edan razonar y su \u00fanica motivaci\u00f3n es la violencia... y pues, s\u00ed, es as\u00ed parcialmente. Pueden hablar como personas normales, pueden estar bajo control y ver a Dimitri siendo \u00e9l y no siendo \u00e9l al mismo tiempo cuando hablaba, cuando se mov\u00eda, cuando estaba con Rose era tremendo. Y hablando de estar con Rose. OH, DIOSES. Toda la parte en la que Rose queda como \"prisionera\" dentro del complejo de Galina, creo que se llamaba, es muuuuuuuuy surreal. Los besos, las caricias, las conversaciones... wow. Son muy intensas, pero no est\u00e1n cargadas del mismo significado que pod\u00edan tener en libros pasados. Estas son demasiado diferentes porque vienen de un Dimitri irreconocible... y lo triste es que Rose las acepta porque... bueno, creo que cualquiera caer\u00eda en eso dadas las circunstancias. Que al final todo se explica por el subid\u00f3n que le producen los mordiscos de Dimitri (ejem, ejem, compostura, Isabela, deja de pensar cosas raras...)... y, \u00a1ay!, el chantaje de Dimitri para que Rose, su Roza, acepte convertirse en strigoi para poder estar siempre juntos. AY, DIOSES DEL OLIMPO. Y EL ESCAPE... Y EL FINAL. LA NOTA DEL FINAL. Ay... cuando Rose despu\u00e9s de escapar y casi morir logra tomar a Dimitri por sorpresa, asdjhalkjfsad. Lo que m\u00e1s me impresiona es que Rose estaba considerando seriamente el convertirse en strigoi por \u00e9l, pero cuando se da cuenta de que la raz\u00f3n de Dimitri es que quiere que se convierta porque \"la necesita\" y no porque la ama... todo acaba para ella y decide darle paz a Dimitri mat\u00e1ndolo. S\u00d3LO QUE P\u00c1GINAS DESPU\u00c9S NOS DAMOS CUENTA DE QUE DIMITRI SOBREVIVE A LA ESTACA DE PLATA QUE LE CLAVA ROSE PORQUE APUNTA MAL Y LO SIGUIENTE QUE SABEMOS ES QUE DIMITRI JURA ENCONTRAR A ROSE Y MATARLA. NO PUEDO M\u00c1S CON LOS FEELS. ADI\u00d3S. \u201cYou forgot another lesson: Never turn your back until you know your enemy is dead. Looks like we\u2019ll have to go over the lesson again the next time I see you\u2014which will be soon. Love, D.\u201d ...more \u201cBound by Love, but sworn to Kill...\u201d Wow, just wow! What a thrilling, emotional roller coaster ride! This book is hands down amazing! Blood Promise is the fourth installment of the Vampire Academy series. In this book, Richelle Mead takes us to Russia together with the badassest character Rose Hathaway, in search for the love of her life, Dimitri. She was forced to abandon her life in the academy as a student, leaving her best friend Lissa behind in order to fulfill her mission to destroy Dimitr \u201cBound by Love, but sworn to Kill...\u201d Wow, just wow! What a thrilling, emotional roller coaster ride! This book is hands down amazing! Blood Promise is the fourth installment of the Vampire Academy series. In this book, Richelle Mead takes us to Russia together with the badassest character Rose Hathaway, in search for the love of her life, Dimitri. She was forced to abandon her life in the academy as a student, leaving her best friend Lissa behind in order to fulfill her mission to destroy Dimitri and give him peace. In Russia, she was able to encounter crazy adventures which include meeting lots of Strigoi on her way and meeting different people-- Humans, Dhampirs ,and Moroi alike. It was one helluvah crazy, fun ride! The adventure Rose experienced in this book was beyond amazing I couldn't even describe how thrilled I was when she stepped into Russia and literally had to deal with those things all on her own. Although the first half of this book was a bit slow-paced, and although Rose annoyed me at some point, the second half totally made it all up. There were unimaginable action scenes that pulled up my adrenaline. Even the epic reunion of Rose and Dimitri was perfectly executed. One thing that I also loved about this sequel was the introduction of new characters like Sydney, Abe, Mark, Oksana, and Dimitri's family. Sydney, in particular, is such a promising character. I immediately liked her. She's not as badass as Rose but she's interesting. It made me want to get to know her more and dig the Alchemist world deeper. The plot in this book was perfectly delivered. And oh, that ending! Richelle Mead surprised me once again! Darn, this series is getting better and better as it continues. I have definitely become a fan of it! As a whole, I did enjoy this book A LOT . I can't help but feel excited to read the next book. :) Rating: 5 Bloody Stars (Review is also posted on my blog: https://bibliopearl.wordpress.com/201... ) :) ...more Actual Rating: 4.5/5 Wow, can't believe I read about 400 pages today! I couldn't put this book down, and it's pretty long so that's saying something! This book was a real roller coaster! As soon as Rose saw Adrian at the airport near the end of the book, the rest of the novel was just so beautiful!!! All these relationships coming back together, I seriously think that was my fav part of the book. Basically: I love Adrian so much, like, so much Rose is amazing, and the character development, wow I didn Actual Rating: 4.5/5 Wow, can't believe I read about 400 pages today! I couldn't put this book down, and it's pretty long so that's saying something! This book was a real roller coaster! As soon as Rose saw Adrian at the airport near the end of the book, the rest of the novel was just so beautiful!!! All these relationships coming back together, I seriously think that was my fav part of the book. Basically: I love Adrian so much, like, so much Rose is amazing, and the character development, wow I didn't realise how much I would miss Rose and Lissa being together Rose and her mum were so cute at the end The head-mistress or whatever she was, was so sweet to Rose at the end OMG, didn't expect that *person* was Rose's dad!! That was awesome! I loved Sydney, and can't wait to read Bloodlines I don't even really think I'm that big a fan of Dimitri, and now I realllly don't like him as a Strogoi :/ I just knew that (Spoiler ahead) Avery was going to end up evil Yeah... That's my thoughts. Lol ...more El libro anterior de la saga dej\u00f3 el nivel muy alto y m\u00eda expectativas por las nubes. Y por supuesto que ste libro fue incre\u00edble, siento que la saga se pone cada vez mas interesante, me he encontrado un mont\u00f3n de sorpresas a trav\u00e9s de la historia y los libros solo prometen mejorar. Rose es uno de mis personajes femeninos favoritos y en este libro continu\u00f3 demostrando esa fuerza y esa terquedad que tanto me enamoran de ella. Por otro lado debo decir que en este libro empec\u00e9 a querer mucho a Adrian El libro anterior de la saga dej\u00f3 el nivel muy alto y m\u00eda expectativas por las nubes. Y por supuesto que ste libro fue incre\u00edble, siento que la saga se pone cada vez mas interesante, me he encontrado un mont\u00f3n de sorpresas a trav\u00e9s de la historia y los libros solo prometen mejorar. Rose es uno de mis personajes femeninos favoritos y en este libro continu\u00f3 demostrando esa fuerza y esa terquedad que tanto me enamoran de ella. Por otro lado debo decir que en este libro empec\u00e9 a querer mucho a Adrian! Rese\u00f1a Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com.co/201... ...more Three words; i'm just going to do one this time. Amazing. I love this series. Plain and simple. I've been a fan since the beginning and I can't helped but get sucked in every time. This is my favorite vampire series. Heck, it's one of my most favorites, vampire or not. The plot is fantastic, action packed, twists and turns galore. The characters are right on, they continue to grow and develop, become even more dimensional as the series continues. The writing is amazing. I just absolutely enjoyed r Three words; i'm just going to do one this time. Amazing. I love this series. Plain and simple. I've been a fan since the beginning and I can't helped but get sucked in every time. This is my favorite vampire series. Heck, it's one of my most favorites, vampire or not. The plot is fantastic, action packed, twists and turns galore. The characters are right on, they continue to grow and develop, become even more dimensional as the series continues. The writing is amazing. I just absolutely enjoyed reading this, I did NOT want to put it down. This was by far the most emotional of the series. And I can't wait to see where it goes from here. For once, I have no idea what is going to happen next and I LOVE it! And that's all I have to say about that. ...more Just because I like you, it doesn't mean I still don't think you're an evil creature of the night. You are. \u2191And there you have the only good line in the whole book. You're welcome. Okay, I would like to tell you the story of my trip to drive from Texas to Florida for vacation a couple of years ago. It will take me about 300 pages to let you have the true experience that I had - sitting in the car, driving part of the time, stopping for gas & food. Plus, I know you are interested in every hi Just because I like you, it doesn't mean I still don't think you're an evil creature of the night. You are. \u2191And there you have the only good line in the whole book. You're welcome. Okay, I would like to tell you the story of my trip to drive from Texas to Florida for vacation a couple of years ago. It will take me about 300 pages to let you have the true experience that I had - sitting in the car, driving part of the time, stopping for gas & food. Plus, I know you are interested in every highway that we had to take, where we passed through, and what we talked about to pass the time. What? You think a couple hundred pages of that might be slightly boring? That's true. It should be an obvious bad idea. And, yet... here it is ... in book form. Hundreds of pages of nothing. Rose travels through Russia. What she wears to the club. What she talks about on the train. Running errands for her host family. Eating. And, tons of thinking to herself. Plus, oh joy, she once again reminds us of everything that has happened in the last few books - leaving no detail out. Because, you know, we need to be reminded of what Strigoi, Moroi, and Dhampir's are again. It's not enough that they were explained to us in the very first book. We need an in-depth explanation in every book. Pages and pages of explanations. Also, remind us of who each character is again, please! And, make sure to give us a run-down of everything about them. Because we are total morons! We have the attention span of 6 year olds and need to be retold the story in every book. So, that is why I hated this book. It was all filler - no substance. I officially have quit reading this series. I tried. You guys know that I tried. I even have the rest of the books. But, it just isn't happening for me. Sorry, book: it's not you, it's me. (I'm lying, it's totally you.) Book: ...more Wow... all i can say is wow!!!! I waited so long to read this book and now it brings really mixed emotions in me and i must admit that i don't know exactly how i feel about it. Don't get me wrong I LOVED IT but there were still some moments where i wasn't sure. First off i knew Abe was Rose's father from the get go, there was just something about him that screamed that to be the case. I can certainly see where she gets her stubbornness and attitude, lol. Sydney was cool too, although i think i exp Wow... all i can say is wow!!!! I waited so long to read this book and now it brings really mixed emotions in me and i must admit that i don't know exactly how i feel about it. Don't get me wrong I LOVED IT but there were still some moments where i wasn't sure. First off i knew Abe was Rose's father from the get go, there was just something about him that screamed that to be the case. I can certainly see where she gets her stubbornness and attitude, lol. Sydney was cool too, although i think i expected more of her in the book. I hope both she and Abe are in future books. Adrian really stepped up in this book and i absolutely loved seeing him be like he was. I'm still TEAM DIMITRI all the way, but i did soften towards Adrian slightly. I really felt for Rose in this book and sometimes my heart just broke for her. It was so sad *sob* I felt she had changed and continued to change heaps as a character and i was really pleased when she got to meet Dimitri's family. I loved them! And Dimitri? Oh, Dimitri! He was bad and yet.... he was so good. I will admit that i did share Rose's feelings about him. He was/is evil (anyone can see that) but he seemed so much like his old self that at times i did forget what he was and found myself thinking of him as the old Dimitri everyone knew and loved. Then he'd do something or say something that was so evil and so unlike the old Dimitri that i was like...... crap, he's a Strigoi for crying out loud! Don't forget that. One thing i absolutely loved was in the end when Rose came back and her and Lissa made up. I'm glad to see that Lissa can understand what Rose felt for Dimitri and understands (slightly) why she did what she did. I'm happy to see that Lissa will go with Rose if and when she leaves again. I'm SOOOOOOO glad Rose didn't kill Dimka and i really hope against hope, that between her and Lissa they can find away to save him. I hope that this Robert guy is able to heel Dimitri somehow. Then maybe he and Rose can actually have a happy ending..... they deserve it. Now my finally note is that i CAN'T wait until Spirit Bound to be released. I think it's gonna be really interesting and as far as i'm concerned, next year ISN'T SOON ENOUGH!!!!!!!!!! ...more I want to read this book!!!!!! God if she has to kill Dimitri I am so going to...I don't know what I'll do but I am so going to do something if he dies!!!! UGH!!! I want to know what is going to happen so badly!!!!! I think my experience with the Vampire Academy novels would probably make a great blog post about the difference between experiencing a series book by book, year by year and experiencing them all in one long junk food binge fest. I completely understand why Blood Promise pissed off readers who were following this series book by book. This had to be a frustrating book, but I walked from the third book to the fourth and onto the fifth without waiting at all. It doesn't matter as much to me that Ro I think my experience with the Vampire Academy novels would probably make a great blog post about the difference between experiencing a series book by book, year by year and experiencing them all in one long junk food binge fest. I completely understand why Blood Promise pissed off readers who were following this series book by book. This had to be a frustrating book, but I walked from the third book to the fourth and onto the fifth without waiting at all. It doesn't matter as much to me that Rose didn't kill Dimitri because I'm walking into the book with my morning cup of coffee and English muffin. There's no waiting so the sense of ending where we started is abated. There's no disgust over having paid for a hardcover of a book that pissed me off. There's no waiting another six months or a year (I have no idea about Mead's publishing schedule) for the story to actually move the fuck foward. I can appreciate Rose's journey and experiences without going 'omg you wasted MY TIME.' I probably would have moaned louder than all of you had I been reading this series book by book. I would've had a bonfire and sent out invitations across the seas. Also, I was slightly spoiled on that front, which cushioned the blow in all the appropriate places so I got to read the scenes with an altered investment level. There are mistakes in this book -- mistakes really in the entire series that this book highlights. I still don't believe enough time was spent developing Dimitri and Rose's relationship to warrant this level of angst in the aftermath. We were always given a lot more of Lissa and Rose's relationship or even Lissa and Christian's relationship. Rose spent most of Frostbite believing Dimitri was going to go off with a Moroi, marry her, and have a dozen little dhampir babies. I don't think their relationship developed enough in the next book, Shadow Kiss , to warrant her grief enough for him as his lover. Friend, yes. Lover... it happened once almost accidentally. What could have been between them was sadder than the absence of what actually was between them. I felt more about the plans they'd made for their futures, how Dimitri would ask to be reassigned, how things could be when they could be, than I felt about their one illicit roll in the sheets. Mead tries to adjust Dimitri and Rose's relationship in Blood Promise by backtracking and adding scenes. I saw a few reviews where people were dismayed over the story Dimitri's mother told Rose about him learning to bake bread. Again, I see where you're coming from on that one guys. I would have preferred to see more things that were more in tune with the Dimitri we knew rather than expanding him in a different direction. I don't think we knew enough about Dimitri to begin with to really enjoy jarring facts. However, I'm going to allow the bread thing because it fits with what I know about grief. Every time I've gone to a wake for someone I loved I found out different strange things about the person, things that might have seemed basic but had somehow fell into my knowledge gaps. There were other problems though, like Mead plot-holed herself by going back and adding scenes. The entire scene on the mountain top undermined a pretty big story arch. Rose and Dimitri go for a drive. He's officially on guardian business and it's mostly mission orientated except for a few minutes near a gas station. It's poorly inserted, obviously meant to add tone and texture to their relationship, and was a big fail for me. It would have meant more had the scene come in proper sequence. Of course, in proper sequence an editor would have pointed out that post-Mason Rose sees ghosts whenever she leaves warded areas because of her new found intimacy with death. Overall the whole thing took away from story structure. The beginning of the book meanders a little. I can see how some people would feel it dragged, but I mostly enjoyed Rose cutting a path across Russia. I liked Dimitri's crazy grandma, possibly because I grew up with two of my own a lot like her. I liked meeting the other bonded pair and shadow-kissed guardian. I did, however, feel like Rose spent too much time with Dimitri's family, but again I understood why she hesitated to leave. It would be hard to break such an intense connection to someone you love whose gone. I can't even imagine it. It's bad enough having to pack things away, trying to decide whether or not to re-read letters and postcards, whether you can handle looking through photos. Having people all around you with the same eyes or laugh or smile, I know I would have stayed a long time. I'm being so forgiving. The story does pick up when dead-Dimitri returns so I guess I did feel a bit weighed down by the Belikovs. I like that Rose decided to hunt Dimitri, that she felt honor bound to fulfill his wishes, and I liked that she hesitated when she was face to face with him. Rose is very often a bad ass who tops everyone else and therefore I like when she fucks up. It diminishes the Sue qualities. I'm not sure how I feel about Dimitri waiting to turn her, if that was real Strigoi behavior or if Mead was squishing her world building for drama's sake. Still, the only other Strigoi we have a lot of prolonged contact with were capable of waiting things out so I'm giving this a yellow light. Frostbite's Issac wanted Mia or Christian to chose Strigoi so I can buy monster-Dimitri waiting it out. Also, this might make me a sentimental sap, but the difference between monster-Dimitri and Dimitri while he was holding the healing ring may have made me grieve a little. God. I need to stop reading YA paranormal. As for Rose fucking up staking Dimitri a second time . I'm a little more hesitant on forgiving that. Like I said, I'd been slightly spoiled so I suspected that would happen, especially after he handled the healing ring and there was that small chance of a happy ending. I would have been a lot more impressed with Mead if she'd really killed Dimitri and took the story down a darker road, but I didn't expect her to do it. I always think of J.K. Rowling when authors pussy-foot around being brutal with a character's death. After she killed (view spoiler) [Sirius (hide spoiler) ] off she was upset and her husband suggested she take it back. Her response was something along the lines of that when writing children's books you have to be a brutal executioner with no exceptions. Oh well. The other thing I'm bothered by is this story line is skating a little too close to Buffy. I'm sure other people have ranted and raved about that, but it warrants mentioning anyway. Evil Angel, evil Dimitri, killing evil Angel, killing evil Dimitri, return of Angel, return of Dimitri, and then ya know vampires. It's different in a lot of ways, too similar in a lot of ways. I haven't seen Buffy in years so I can't do a point by point comparison, but I keep getting this been there done that sensation. Also, I'm definitely not Team Adrian. I'm still not crazy about Rose and Dimitri, but Adrian hasn't actually endeared himself to me. I went to a pretty posh private high school and he's the sort of guy I had absolutely no patience for. Rose is a lot more tolerant of the suggestive comments than I was because I shoved a guy on his ass in the middle of a crowded cafeteria for a lot less. However, it's not really as fun to read when you're pro one pairing over another because the alternative is just the lesser annoyance. I wish I could have felt more about Rose and Dimitri as a pairing, but that was fumbled three books ago and there's no way to fix it at this point. So there is my piecemeal defense, Cory. I read it all at once with spoilers and less emotional attachment than the average reader must have felt... It might forgive me for enjoying it, but it doesn't really forgive Mead for writing it which means after the review I'm going from four stars to three. ...more This book was full of ups and downs. I cried, I laughed, I was shocked... I had mixed feelings in some point while reading this, but I couldn't stop reading! I just had to know what'll happen. Like the prequels, this gets full 5 stars. Now some SPOILERS. (view spoiler) [ It was so annoying that everytime Strigoi attacked, I was thinking \"Oh my god, is that Dimitri?\" And when he locked her in that room... I don't know. It was so confusing! They were together again and I was so happy but somehow it This book was full of ups and downs. I cried, I laughed, I was shocked... I had mixed feelings in some point while reading this, but I couldn't stop reading! I just had to know what'll happen. Like the prequels, this gets full 5 stars. Now some SPOILERS. (view spoiler) [ It was so annoying that everytime Strigoi attacked, I was thinking \"Oh my god, is that Dimitri?\" And when he locked her in that room... I don't know. It was so confusing! They were together again and I was so happy but somehow it was also disgusting in a way because he was a Strigoi and he kept drinking blood from her. He obviously still wanted to protect her but in a twisted kind of way. And when she killed him... That was just PAIN. REAL PAIN. Like, NO. And in the end when Rose got that letter... NO. Like, I wanted him to be alive but I didn't want him to be alive. You know what I mean? It was kind of obvious to me that that ring had an effect on Dimitri. It was adorable. So if there IS a way to bring him back, I really hope it'll work. I miss that cute and adorable him. (hide spoiler) ] Oh Adrian... I really love him, (view spoiler) [ I knew there was something bugging me about Avery and thank god Adrian didn't fell for her truly. I just want him to be happy too so I was ok with the idea of him and Rose being together if Dimitri would have been dead. Now... I don't know. I JUST WANT MY BBY TO BE HAPPY. He really deserves someone goodhearted. Avery was such a creepy girl, though. Gosh I hated her. (hide spoiler) ] (view spoiler) [ And the scenes where Rose had these memories of Dimitri... I was such a mess! I was reading there like I MISS HIM SO MUCH. His family seemed nice, though. (hide spoiler) ] And then we have Abe. (view spoiler) [ I did NOT see it coming that he would be Rose's father. Like, WHAT? ZMEY? Zmey Junior and Zmeyette sounded good though, haha. Dimitri seemed pissed about Abe and knew that he was dangerous. I wonder how Dimitri knew Abe in the first place. I hope we'll see more of him in the next book and get to know his secrets. (hide spoiler) ] I can't wait to read the sequel! ...more Hmm. I was a little bit disappointed by this fourth installment of the VA series. I haven't been all ecstatic about the first three books either, but I definitely enjoyed reading them. But with this one, I was actually contemplating giving up on the series altogether after the first 100 pages because it was painfully slow and uneventful. The first half of this book only consisted of a) retelling what happened previously, b) Rose talking about how great Dimitri was or c) Rose recalling all the gre Hmm. I was a little bit disappointed by this fourth installment of the VA series. I haven't been all ecstatic about the first three books either, but I definitely enjoyed reading them. But with this one, I was actually contemplating giving up on the series altogether after the first 100 pages because it was painfully slow and uneventful. The first half of this book only consisted of a) retelling what happened previously, b) Rose talking about how great Dimitri was or c) Rose recalling all the great moments they had together and being miserable. After about 250 or 300 pages, it picked up a little and I finshed the rest in one sitting, but all in all, this book desperately would have needed some shortening. Also, Mead has destroyed Dimitri for me. He has totally lost his appeal. I really hope Rose will go for Adrian in the next book instead and stop moping around ... ...more I KNEW IT I KNEW IT BUT ALSO ASDJKLUFRTFGFKHSLFKSJF okay where is Spirit Bound where the fuck are you book come here no need to stop now My whole life is Vampire Academy. I am a Vampire Academy blood whore. Addicted to the endorphins. In a blood whore haze. Also, Adrian is flawless. Hey. I have a theroy. PLEASE DONT 'SPOILERIZE' IT!!!!!!!!! I think its pretty good. Here it is. (Sorry its all in Caps!) DIMIRTI HAS LEFT. HES IN RUSSIA(already known from Richelle).SHES ALMOST THERE. THEN SHE COMES ACCROSS ADRIAN, LISSA AND CHIRSTIAN AND EDDIE. OF COURSE THERE GOING TO TRY TO GET HER BACK. ONLY ADRIAN AND LISSA KNOW ABOUT DIMITRI AND ROSE STILL. SOMEHOW ROSE GETS THEM TO STAY. THEY FIND DIMITRI AND ABOUT 10 OTHER STRIGOI. ROSE TAKES DOWN 3 BUT THEN GET HIT AND ALMOST DIES. DIMITRI Hey. I have a theroy. PLEASE DONT 'SPOILERIZE' IT!!!!!!!!! I think its pretty good. Here it is. (Sorry its all in Caps!) DIMIRTI HAS LEFT. HES IN RUSSIA(already known from Richelle).SHES ALMOST THERE. THEN SHE COMES ACCROSS ADRIAN, LISSA AND CHIRSTIAN AND EDDIE. OF COURSE THERE GOING TO TRY TO GET HER BACK. ONLY ADRIAN AND LISSA KNOW ABOUT DIMITRI AND ROSE STILL. SOMEHOW ROSE GETS THEM TO STAY. THEY FIND DIMITRI AND ABOUT 10 OTHER STRIGOI. ROSE TAKES DOWN 3 BUT THEN GET HIT AND ALMOST DIES. DIMITRI IS HOVERING AROUND HER. THRISTY YET NOT DRINKING HER BLOOD. HE KNOWS WHY SHE IS THERE. THE OTHER STRIGOI ARE KILLED OFF. DIMIRTI BENDS DOWN AND SCOOPS UPROSE. HE LOOKS INTO HER EYES AND THEN SAYS THAT HE LOVES HER. HE TAKES HER STAKE AND IS ABOUT TO PLUNGE IT INTO HIS HEART WHEN ROSE SAYS STOP. SHE TELLS ADRIAN AND LISS TO DO IT NOW. THEY BOTH FOCUS ON DIMITRI. THEY TURN TOO HIM AND START USING THERE POWER ON HIM. IT DRAINS THEM TO NEAR DEATH BUT AFTER A WHILE HIS EYES DARKEN AND TURN BLACK, HE IS NOW A THIRD SHADOW KISSED A THIRD DHAMPIR AND A THIRD STRIGOI. HE IS THE SAME AS A MONTH AGO THOUGH NOW. HE IS GOOD. Basically my 'plot' thingy was just that lissa, adrian and the other catch up with the rest and the two spirit users use there powers on Dimitri to make him 'GOOD' again. =] =] =] LOL Please comment!!!!!!!1 ...more Could probably have lost about 150 pages and it would have been a great story. However, the first half of the book was really slow, recapped everything to death, and dragged endlessly. The second half was loads better, but overall, not my favourite book. can't freaking wait for this book to come out!!!!!!! She's going to have to make the this one just as amazing and addicting as the last one!It's so complicated. But my friend has an idea.What if mason was lying? What if he came to get revenge, and that was it? Lying to Rose and then her going and ruining her chance of graduating in time, and being Lissa's guardian? I sure hope he was... ....i cant wait for this book to come out. I\"m dying to know if whom will Rose end up with... will it be Adrian or Dmitri... Is Dmitri a Strigoi now or was just kept prisoner... If he's A Strigoi, will Rose be able to kill him... or him kill her?... \"Worry about staying alive first. Then worry about how you're going to live.\" It's getting harder and harder to review books in this series! So much happens in each one! There would be spoilers galore if I tried to delve too deeply into the plot of Blood Promise . Book #3 ended with a pretty HUGE cliffhanger that had me begging and pleading wouldn't be real. I considered every scenario to rationalize that that one thing did not just happen! But... it did. *sigh* Pretty much all I can tell you wi \"Worry about staying alive first. Then worry about how you're going to live.\" It's getting harder and harder to review books in this series! So much happens in each one! There would be spoilers galore if I tried to delve too deeply into the plot of Blood Promise . Book #3 ended with a pretty HUGE cliffhanger that had me begging and pleading wouldn't be real. I considered every scenario to rationalize that that one thing did not just happen! But... it did. *sigh* Pretty much all I can tell you without using tons of spoiler tags, which I just don't feel like doing right now ;) is that Rose does leave St. Vladimir's at the beginning of the book to \"deal with\" what happened at the end of book #3. There are some new characters introduced, like Syndney, who I am really curious to learn more about and the alchemists. And Abe! He gave me the heebie jeebies BIG TIME in the beginning, but he's growing on me and I hope he's in the next one, maybe minus the creeper status... So anyways, Rose is away and meets lots of new people and gets into trouble. Of course, she wouldn't be Rose if that didn't happen, right? About half way through I thought I might have a heart attack, seriously. My heart was pounding so hard and the anxiety I felt was off the charts. Each sentence made me nervous, it was an anticipation unlike anything I've ever felt while reading a book. So incredibly powerful and palpable! The emotions evoked while reading this were intense and conflicting! It was a struggle for me to decide what I actually wanted to happen and where I hoped the story would go. It felt like I had an angel on one shoulder and a devil on the other, screaming at me to choose their side. Honestly, in this one I was leaning toward the dark side! I couldn't help it! The dark side does come with it's perks... (view spoiler) [Evil Strigoi Dimitri <3 But CRAZYYY -- \"To drink the blood of another... to watch the life fade from them and feel it pour into you... it's the greatest feeling in the world.\" -Dimitri OMG!!! (hide spoiler) ] I'm also really curious what will happen with Adrian, who I feel so guilty for loving. I feel like I'm cheating on my boyfriend, Dimitri everytime I laugh, smile, and swoon over Adrian. He really is a great character and he has come so far in the last couple books. And Lissa & Christian, they better get their shit together or I'll be really upset! I LOVED the end of this book! It got me so excited to start the next one! I was giddy and felt a wicked sense of darkness that really excites me as I head off to start Spirit Bound . ...more", "Title": "Blood Promise"},
