{"Comments": "2016 REVIEW: I just re-read this one for book club. After almost eight years, it was good to revisit it and rediscover what I loved about it. I remembered loving the characters (<---B>especially Reuben and Swede</---B>) and the setting (the desolation of the Dakota Badlands). I remembered loving the writing: absolutely some of the best writing I've encountered in all the books I've read. I remembered almost nothing of the plot besides fugitive Davy and the family in the Airstream trailer, so it was an especia 2016 REVIEW: I just re-read this one for book club. After almost eight years, it was good to revisit it and rediscover what I loved about it. I remembered loving the characters (especially Reuben and Swede) and the setting (the desolation of the Dakota Badlands). I remembered loving the writing: absolutely some of the best writing I've encountered in all the books I've read. I remembered almost nothing of the plot besides fugitive Davy and the family in the Airstream trailer, so it was an especially enjoyable re-read. This book is both sad and hopeful. A little gritty in places without being unnecessarily graphic. A little too unreal at times ... but so real in the way the characters feel and react. A beautiful tribute to faith in God, a theme that is so rarely treated with the respect and depth it deserves. Yeah -- this book is just beautiful.<---F> Still one of my favorites</---F>. --- 2011 REVIEW (audio): I read this book in the summer of 2008 and just listened to it again this month (February 2011). It's every bit as wonderful as I remember. The writing it some of the most beautiful I've ever read (reminds me,<---M> strangely enough</---M>, of A Tree Grows in Brooklyn). The characters are so incredibly likable. I loved the themes of miracles, loyalty, accountability, faith. It's a bittersweet story, but for me, the sweet outweighs the bitter. --- 2008 REVIEW: This has been on my to-read book ever since seeing how highly recommended it came from Jenn. Lots of my other Goodreads friends had read it, too, and they\u2019d all loved it. I loved it, too. Three things that kept me turning those pages: 1. The characters. Eleven-year-old Reuben soon became one of my favorite narrators ever. Loved him and everything about him. And don\u2019t even get me started on little sister Swede. I\u2019m sure there\u2019s no eight-year-old who\u2019s quite so bright and hardworking and loyal and talented \u2014 and yet I adored her (even if she is too good to be true). I loved Roxanna as much as the children \u2014 and as much as Jeremiah Land, the father, the good-hearted example and anchor of the family \u2026 and the book. 2. The writing. The prose is so lyrical and yet so effortless, and the poetry (yes, there\u2019s Swede\u2019s verses interspersed throughout) is amazing. The descriptions are terrific; the metaphors are fresh rather than trite. The first-person point-of-view is honest and intriguing and keeps the story moving (which is usually a \u201clyrical\u201d book\u2019s downfall \u2014 it gets longwinded. Not this one.) And \u2014 get this \u2014 I don\u2019t think there was a single swear word in the whole three-hundred-and-thirteen pages, or sex scene, or any of that usual stuff that lands a book on a best-seller list (which, I think, it was on for a time). Hooray! (That said, there is some violence. But not graphic violence.) 3. The message. The book touched on themes of accountability, of perspective, of loyalty. And, of course, of faith \u2014 of finding peace by relying on God. It dealt with hard topics, but the characters \u2014 well, Reuben, anyway, and likely Swede, too \u2014 grew stronger from their experiences because of their faith (or, probably more likely, the faith of their father). This is the kind of book I could hear someone calling \u201ca modern classic\u201d \u2014 I thoroughly enjoyed it. ...more How do I write this to persuade the uninitiated how great <+++>Peace Like a River</+++> is without seeming like a freak? A cursory glance at the synopsis should've had me running for the hills. At its core, its about good old-fashioned family values, faith (read: religion), and \"miracles\" (read: divine intervention). It also features Zane Grey/Louis L'amour-influenced epic poetry (as penned by a precocious 8 year-old), narration by an asthmatic 11 year-old, desperadoes and fugitives from the law like Butc How do I write this to persuade the uninitiated how great <+++>Peace Like a River</+++> is without seeming like a freak? A cursory glance at the synopsis should've had me running for the hills. At its core, its about good old-fashioned family values, faith (read: religion), and \"miracles\" (read: divine intervention). It also features Zane Grey/Louis L'amour-influenced epic poetry (as penned by a precocious 8 year-old), narration by an asthmatic 11 year-old, desperadoes and fugitives from the law like Butch Cassidy, Jesse James, and the Younger brothers. Meh. I don't like old-timey Westerns, I'm not much for precocious kids telling stories, and, well, as for the faith and miracles thing, this \"Doubting Thomas\" subscribes more to Jon Krakauer's school of thought:: \"Faith is the very antithesis of reason\". (And, yet, were I to put Goodreads to use as it was intended and \"shelve\" my favorites, you'd find no less than three novels in my Top Ten with faith/spirituality as a centerpiece: David James Duncan's sublime The Brothers K and The River Why and John Irving's simply transcendent A Prayer for Owen Meany . And, so, with the latest contender for a spot on my top ten, <---A>Leif Enger</---A>'s stunner makes four novels with spirituality at their nexus. Go figure.) Peace Like a River is not exactly plot-heavy. (There's certainly a plot here, but it's one you'll want to drink in as the story and atmospherics envelop you). It's a story (set in the early 1960's in the cold, barren farmlands of Western Minnesota, and the even colder, even more barren Badlands of the Dakotas) of the Land family: narrator Reuben, an asthmatic fellow relaying the events of the book in retrospect; father Jeremiah, a mostly-ambitionless, schoolhouse janitor and ultra-pious disciple of God (and conduit to, or source of many of the aforementioned miracles); Reuben's younger sister Swede, whose poetry serves as parallel allegory to the actions of their older brother; and Davy, whose actions to defend his girlfriend and sister from a pair of thugs land him in jail...and worse. Indelible characters (particularly <---C>Rube</---C>n, Swede and Jeremiah, as iconic as Scout, Jem, and Atticus Finch in To Kill a Mockingbird ) unforgetable dialogue, vivid you-are-there scenery, and a story to keep you turning the pages till the wee hours (yet slow enough to savor every sentence) are all components of a near-masterpiece. I urge you all to give Enger's 2001 (!) novel (his first of only two penned) a read, no matter your receptivity to stories of spirituality and faith (and the Old West) It's a keeper. Highly recommended . ...more I'm rereading this again for a book club I'm hosting. It is one of my all-time favorite books because it has GREAT writing, a wonderful message, a twisting plot and has laugh out loud parts. When people ask me for a book to read, this is the first one I recommend. This was such a great book! Don't miss this one! Leif Enger, Peace Like a River (Grove, 2001) Oh, what has happened to Grove Press? The folks that made their name publishing scandalous novels by James Joyce, Henry Miller, William S. Burroughs, and the like publishing what may be the least controversial novel of the last ten years? It hurts my heart, folks, it really does. Please, Grove, stick to what you know. It wouldn't be so bad if there were more about this piece of smarmy claptrap to like. I haven't decided whether this is a good thing or a Leif Enger, Peace Like a River (Grove, 2001) Oh, what has happened to Grove Press? The folks that made their name publishing scandalous novels by James Joyce, Henry Miller, William S. Burroughs, and the like publishing what may be the least controversial novel of the last ten years? It hurts my heart, folks, it really does. Please, Grove, stick to what you know. It wouldn't be so bad if there were more about this piece of smarmy claptrap to like. I haven't decided whether this is a good thing or a bad thing yet (I'm grudgingly leaning towards the former). Enger's writing style allows for long lapses in anything actually happening. Just when I'm ready to throw the book against the wall, however, he perks right back up again and things start going well for a few pages, then it's back into the depths of... well, the void. That's about the only way I can put it. Reuben Land is an asthmatic eleven-year-old (or, at least, he is in the novel; one of the more amusing things I'm finding about most reviews is that they seem to have skipped over the fact that he WAS an asthmatic eleven-year-old at the time of the novel, but he's telling the story as an adult, which makes the comparisons to To Kill a Mockingbird, Huck Finn, etc. specious at best) with a father who can perform miracles, a sister who's a writing prodigy, and a brother who's your basic teenager in the small-town American Midwest in 1962. After Reuben's father stops two town thugs from raping a girl, they seek revenge on the family. The teenager's reaction to this is what sets up the rest of the novel; it's probably not a spoiler any more, but I won't say anything just in case. The plotline with Davy (the teenager) is by far the most interesting thing about the novel. When Enger is writing this, his prose rises off the page and compels the reader to keep going. Unfortunately, it's a minor point in the general scheme of things; Enger seems far more interested in writing an episode of Seventh Heaven where the family's father is actually Jesus. Except Seventh Heaven, for all its many many faults, has more wit, more compassion, and less preaching than does Peace Like a River. I was willing to give this mess two stars, mostly because Enger can write well when he tries, and a couple of his characters are perfectly drawn, but then I got to the ending. Of all the endings I would have projected for this novel, Enger took the most predictable, most syrupy-sweet, most clich\u00e9d ending he possibly could, then tried to pass it off and something epic and grandiose. Even if the rest of the book had been perfect, the ending is such a miserable failure that I'd recommend skipping the whole novel, unless you seek out smarminess and predictability. The purpose of a great novel is to challenge the reader, make the reader think, open the reader's eyes and make the reader look at things from a new perspective. All in all, I can't say I've come across another book this year that fails so miserably in all those capacities as does Peace Like a River. * \u00bd ...more Just finished this book. Highly recommend it! It is a very creative story, full of wonderful prose, and characters you come to love, admire and hate. Very interesting spiritual theme running throughout the book. It is clear the author has some understanding of the miraculous! This is certainly not a story that has what we would call a happy ending, but surprises you and on some level it makes sense. And the ending is not even the most important thing - it is walking the journey with these charac Just finished this book. Highly recommend it! It is a very creative story, full of wonderful prose, and characters you come to love, admire and hate. Very interesting spiritual theme running throughout the book. It is clear the author has some understanding of the miraculous! This is certainly not a story that has what we would call a happy ending, but surprises you and on some level it makes sense. And the ending is not even the most important thing - it is walking the journey with these characters that brings joy in the reading, and though it is fiction, they seem as real as anyone we might know. One of my favorite parts of the book is near the beginning, soon after the main character, an 11 year old boy named Reuben, is born and lives though the dr. who delivered him pronounced him dead when his lungs failed to inflate. I knew I would like the book after reading these lines: \"Peeping chicks at Easter time, spring generally, a clear sunrise after an overcast week - a miracle, people say, as if they've been educated from greeting cards. I'm sorry, but nope. Such things are worth our notice every day of the week, but to call them miracles evaporates the strength of word. Real miracles bother people . . . they rebut every rule all we good citizens take comfort in. Lazarus obeying orders and climbing out of the grave - now there's a miracle, and you can bet it upset a lot of folks . . . A miracle contradicts the will of the earth. My sister, Swede, who often sees to the nub, offered this: People fear miracles because they fear being changed - though ignoring them will change you also.\" Read it! ...more Among the many glowing reviews for Peace Like a River, there is this: \"Peace Like a River serves as a reminder of why we read fiction to begin with: to commune with a vividly, lovingly rendered world, to lose ourselves in story and language and beauty, to savor what we don't want to end yet know must.\" I would add that I read to meet and know fascinating characters. At any rate, the reviewer got it right \u2014 Peace Like a River by Leif Enger, has all this and more. Character: Reuben Land, an 11-year- Among the many glowing reviews for Peace Like a River, there is this: \"Peace Like a River serves as a reminder of why we read fiction to begin with: to commune with a vividly, lovingly rendered world, to lose ourselves in story and language and beauty, to savor what we don't want to end yet know must.\" I would add that I read to meet and know fascinating characters. At any rate, the reviewer got it right \u2014 Peace Like a River by Leif Enger, has all this and more. Character: Reuben Land, an 11-year-old boy who suffers from asthma, is the book's narrator, looking back through the lenses of memory and adulthood. His younger sister Swede is a virtuoso in heroic verse on Old Western outlawry. She is so precocious that at first I wondered if the author had ever met an 8 year old, but Swede's family is crazy about her, and I soon found her entirely lovable. Their father, Jeremiah, a promising medical student-turned janitor, has an unusually conversational relationship with the Lord. It's not just that he's devoutly religious, or even particularly eccentric. He holds dialogue with God that no one else is privy to (including the reader), at one point even going toe-to-toe in what appears to be an actual physical struggle. (He doesn't win.) Oh, and did I mention he works miracles? There are more characters of course, but these are the ones we get to know best. This family of \"tender-hearted stoics\" (another reviewer's phrasing) is drawn with such care and affection that they seem real \u2014 and wonderful. You want to bring them home and warm them up and feed them and, above all, listen to their story. World: The novel is set in the northern Great Plains during the harshest of winters, a place that is not hard to imagine for someone blessed to live in the temperate Pacific Northwest only because of the author's skill in describing winds so severe they create blizzards when it's not snowing, and temperatures so cold that 19\u00b0 is considered \"brisk.\" It's a great backdrop for the story, and the perfect contrast to a wondrous glimpse of the afterlife that comes late in the book. Story: Reuben's older brother Davy has been charged with murder, having shot and killed two boys who broke into their home with intent to do harm. When the trial takes a turn for the worse, Davy breaks out of jail and goes on the lam. His family follows him into the Badlands of North Dakota, a hostile world of superlative cold and also of fire and brimstone. They meet both comfort and tragedy along the way, and the story's conclusion shows the redemptive power of love and faith and family. Language: Leif Enger has an exceptional talent with language. The tone is conversational, and the word choice is always spot-on. The language is surprisingly literary, employing such wisdom and clarity that sometimes I found myself reading a sentence over and over to let it roll around and sink in. He even makes up his own words sometimes, like \"grayscape\" and \"smouch\" which I think means \"to swipe,\" as in, \"I smouched some gingersnaps.\" And that leaves beauty. There is beauty in the language, in the place and time the language evokes, in character and in theme. It's a wise and thoughtful and faith-inducing book. I really liked this one. And it did remind me why I read fiction. It's a miracle of a book and I heartily recommend it. ...more A wonderful coming of age story of two children, with beautiful prose and a few miracles and life lessons thrown in for good measure. The characters are what made this such an enjoyable read for me. Swede, so wise beyond her eight years, loves anything pertaining to the American West and writes amazing poetry about cowboys. Her eleven year old asthmatic brother, Reuben, the narrator of the tale, and their father head West in their Airstream to find the oldest son Davey, who has escaped from jail A wonderful coming of age story of two children, with beautiful prose and a few miracles and life lessons thrown in for good measure. The characters are what made this such an enjoyable read for me. Swede, so wise beyond her eight years, loves anything pertaining to the American West and writes amazing poetry about cowboys. Her eleven year old asthmatic brother, Reuben, the narrator of the tale, and their father head West in their Airstream to find the oldest son Davey, who has escaped from jail while on trial for murder. Their journey appears to be mystically routed for them, as their luck along the way seems predestined. But once they stop for an extended stay in the Dakotas with a woman that they are instantly taken with, their luck is about to change. A classic. ...more Just as beautiful as before. I enjoyed Chad Lowe's narration this time around. Deeply moving, organically told tale with lovely character development. Highly recommended. It's been weeks since I read this book, and yet I keep forgetting to write a review for it. Why? Well, for starters, I usually have the book around and its presence reminds me to review it. Not so with this novel, which I have bought three times while traveling for my own novel, and given away twice before I could get it home with me. It's just that kind of book, where you want to go \"oh man, take this.\" To call it a Western is to scare off everyone who finds Clint Eastwood a little bit of a turn It's been weeks since I read this book, and yet I keep forgetting to write a review for it. Why? Well, for starters, I usually have the book around and its presence reminds me to review it. Not so with this novel, which I have bought three times while traveling for my own novel, and given away twice before I could get it home with me. It's just that kind of book, where you want to go \"oh man, take this.\" To call it a Western is to scare off everyone who finds Clint Eastwood a little bit of a turn off. No, this is an atmospheric novel about a family split by unusual circumstances: Davy, the eldest son, shoots two intruders in the night and goes into hiding from the law. Told from the point of view of Davy's younger brother, Reuben, the story is spiritual, heartbreaking, and joyful. The care that Leif Enger takes with the sibling relationship is stunning; all of the relationships in this book are done with a sort of flawless subtlety. The humor is also subtle and occasionally -- surprisingly -- laugh-out-loud. The last third of the book meanders more than I would like, but I'm afraid the characters (oh Swede!) are just too fantastic for me to not give this four stars. Because it will be a reread. I promise you that. I highly recommend you go out and buy it (if I haven't managed to give you a copy first). ***wondering why all my reviews are five stars? Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read. Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement. I can't believe I just said \"hearty.\" It sounds like a stew.*** ...more I wanted to love it, and I did love it--until about halfway through. The book's characters are drawn well; they are unique and full of individuality. The plot is well paced up through the suspense of the oldest brother's trial for double murder. From then on, the book dissolves into a strange mix of cowboy western and religious fable. The plot loses steam, and I lost interest. The ending was tragically disappointing, the characters lose their depth, and their choices seem forced. Absolutely perfect from first page to last. It's been ages since I've thought that about a book. I loved all the characters, as well as the story, which centers around the perspective of witnessing, loyalty, family ties, faith, character and miracles. This book spans a short time period (maybe a half- or three quarters-year) but it's so packed with story and life that it seems to span years. The writing is beautiful, with humour throughout. I highly recommend this book. Loved it. \"Peace Like a River\" opens with the narrator's stillbirth. \"My lungs refused to kick in,\" Reuben writes in a moment that's at once terrifying and reassuring. While the doctor mumbles platitudes and his mother wails, Reuben's father senses that something's wrong. He sprints across the parking lot, back into the hospital, up into the room, and punches the doctor to get to his limp son. \"Reuben Land,\" he commands, \"in the name of the living God I am telling you to breathe.\" How wonderful that the wo \"Peace Like a River\" opens with the narrator's stillbirth. \"My lungs refused to kick in,\" Reuben writes in a moment that's at once terrifying and reassuring. While the doctor mumbles platitudes and his mother wails, Reuben's father senses that something's wrong. He sprints across the parking lot, back into the hospital, up into the room, and punches the doctor to get to his limp son. \"Reuben Land,\" he commands, \"in the name of the living God I am telling you to breathe.\" How wonderful that the word \"inspiration\" refers to filling the lungs with air and the soul with motivation. This first novel by Leif Enger draws its life from that holy pun. It's a rich atmosphere of adventure, tragedy, and healing that will make you breathe faster and deeper. Reuben tackles skeptics in the first scene: \"Real miracles bother people,\" he writes, \"like sudden pains unknown in medical literature. It's true: They rebut every rule us good citizens take comfort in.... A miracle contradicts the will of earth. My sister, Swede, who often sees to the nub, offered this: people fear miracles because they fear being changed - though ignoring them will change you also.\" What follows is the remarkable story of Reuben's 11th year. He lives with his precocious younger sister, his strong-willed older brother, Davy, and their saintly father in a small Minnesota town in the early 1960s. Their mother abandoned them years before, probably out of frustration that her husband, Jeremiah, had no worldly ambition. Seen only through the lens of his son's adulation, the end of that marriage is difficult to explain, but we know it went bad soon after a life-threatening accident transported Jeremiah in more ways than one. Now, he cares for his children with quiet devotion and works at the public school as a janitor. Looking back at those years, Reuben confesses some moments of shame about his father's vocation, but he's bursting with wonder to tell about the events he witnessed in their home. Despite his humble life, Jeremiah commands powers that stem from his profoundly active faith. \"He had laid up prayer as if with a trowel,\" Reuben writes. Hours spent reading the Bible and talking with God allow him to effect sudden cures, stretch small meals, and even, in one of the book's most gorgeous scenes, walk above a field of thistles. The style isn't so much \"magical realism\" as \"spiritual realism.\" I know what you're thinking: It has a kind of clammy \"Touched by an Angel\" feel. But it's saved by Reuben's raw honesty and the novel's bracing vitality. \"A miracle is no cute thing,\" he writes, \"but more like the swing of a sword.\" So is Reuben's voice - slicing away the sweet fat that could have made this story nauseating. Trouble breaks into their lives when Jeremiah interrupts some young thugs trying to rape his son's girlfriend. He beats them pretty savagely with a broomstick, and in the process incurs the wrath of a couple of characters who scare even the local police. Unfortunately, they don't scare his older son, who remains a heroic silhouette throughout the novel. Davy picks up the challenge where his father won't and continues to feud with his girlfriend's assailants. Acts of vandalism lead to acts of kidnapping, then assault, and finally murder. Davy's arrest splits the town. Few openly sympathize with the late thugs, but many are quietly pleased to see pious Jeremiah taken down a step or two. Davy's siblings, however, are unwavering in their devotion. The morning of the trial, before Swede and Reuben can implement their ludicrous plan to break Davy from jail, he escapes on his own. It's a foolish, illegal move, of course, but beyond that, it's a rejection of his father's faith. Davy loves his dad, but he finds the concept of an omnipotent God as claustrophobic as the cell. \"Davy wanted life to be something you did on your own,\" Reuben writes. \"The whole idea of a protective fatherly God annoyed him.\" Guided only by Jeremiah's prayers, the family sets out into the Badlands of North Dakota, searching for Davy, eluding the police, and nursing Reuben through increasingly severe attacks of asthma. The romantic Western tone of this quest is stirred and even satirized by the epic poem Swede writes along the way about a brave cowboy who wrestles with outlaws and the law: The blizzard shipped in from the west like a grin On a darkened, malevolent face, And the posse that sought Mr. Sundown was caught In an awfully dangerous place. That a 9-year-old composes this poem is perhaps the book's most challenging miracle, but like so many other unlikely details here, Reuben forces us to believe with the power of his disarming exuberance. You can't help but resonate with the delight he takes in this story. Enger has written a novel that's boldly romantic and unabashedly appealing, a collage of legends from sources sacred and profane - from the Old Testament to the Old West, from the Gospels to police dramas. But Reuben's search for his brother is ultimately the search to understand the nature of a father's miraculous love. It's a journey you simply must not miss. http://www.csmonitor.com/2001/0906/p1... ...more Whoever typeset this book should be fired, and then possibly summarily shot. I cannot recall the last time I saw so many errors in a book--apostrophes and quotation marks inverted, no spaces left after some of the full stops, and, on one occasion, the e.e. cummings-esque 'multi- p lied' appeared in the middle of the page for no discernible reason. Such gripes aside, this book is really an excellent read. It is a novel of faith, the kind of novel which I normally find hard to connect with, since m Whoever typeset this book should be fired, and then possibly summarily shot. I cannot recall the last time I saw so many errors in a book--apostrophes and quotation marks inverted, no spaces left after some of the full stops, and, on one occasion, the e.e. cummings-esque 'multi- p lied' appeared in the middle of the page for no discernible reason. Such gripes aside, this book is really an excellent read. It is a novel of faith, the kind of novel which I normally find hard to connect with, since my faith has long been lacking; however, Enger writes with a lack of condescension, a straightforward style, which makes it easier for me to deal with. His prose is truly beautiful, with a quiet elegance and a great power of description--creative without ever being overblown. The characters are delineated with a lot of affection and attention to detail, though I always found Jeremiah to be quite remote (perhaps appropriately, for a father seen through the eyes of his eleven-year-old son) and Swede's speech patterns to be too refined for even the most precocious of the nine-year-olds I've met. Reuben makes for a marvellous narrator, though; a narration which conveys his personality well and is convincingly child-like, uncomprehending of certain aspects of the events around him, but which still manages to illuminate, for the reader, those aspects of the story which a young Reuben simply cannot understand. I felt the ending was a little rushed, with too much action after the quiet unfolding of most of the novel, but I will forgive that, I think, for that one beautiful vision which comes at the end. Wonderful, and a book to recommend. ...more I don't know what to rate this! This book made me cranky. It is beautifully written, almost poetic. It reminds me of the style of \"How Green Was My Valley.\" There's a strong, wise father figure. A boy coming of age. An older brother who makes a dubious choice. A shocking death. Many inspiring quotables. It's a book about the power of faith--I think. It's really made me wonder about why I closed it feeling unsettled and unhappy. I think it's because it was almost too real. The characters in it are s I don't know what to rate this! This book made me cranky. It is beautifully written, almost poetic. It reminds me of the style of \"How Green Was My Valley.\" There's a strong, wise father figure. A boy coming of age. An older brother who makes a dubious choice. A shocking death. Many inspiring quotables. It's a book about the power of faith--I think. It's really made me wonder about why I closed it feeling unsettled and unhappy. I think it's because it was almost too real. The characters in it are so believable I feel like they are my cousins or something--in real life! So the discouraging, painful things that happen to these characters seem to have actually happened to people I care about. It was really disturbing! Much of my reading now is to give my mind and emotions rest. I love to read deeply written, thoughtful books, but I want that cathartic experience of being taken away from my own troubles. This book made me feel like I was adding to my troubles! Maybe I'm crazy, but when I finished the book last night, I was angry at the author for making me care so much about these wonderful people who did not have a happy or peaceful life. ...more Remember the good old days? When bad and good were clearly defined black and white. When no one cursed or drank strong liquor. When children never sassed their parents. When no one had sex (or genitals). Well, me neither. But if there's anybody who does long for such a mythical time, have I got the \"Boy's Life\" adventure for you! In Leif Enger's \"Peace Like A River,\" young Reuben Land lives in the Midwest with his father, who is touched by God to the point where he glows in the dark; his sister Remember the good old days? When bad and good were clearly defined black and white. When no one cursed or drank strong liquor. When children never sassed their parents. When no one had sex (or genitals). Well, me neither. But if there's anybody who does long for such a mythical time, have I got the \"Boy's Life\" adventure for you! In Leif Enger's \"Peace Like A River,\" young Reuben Land lives in the Midwest with his father, who is touched by God to the point where he glows in the dark; his sister, Swede (read: Scout), who writes precociously nauseating epic cowboy poetry; and his hot-tempered older brother, Davy, who guns down two plot contrivances and has to go on the lam. The cornpone (or whatever the Midwestern equivalent) gets mighty thick in this novel, which is sorely in need of some grit and ambiguity. It's trite and it's obvious and it's soaked in the flop sweat of struggling to live up to predecessors such as \"To Kill A Mockingbird\" and \"Plainsong.\" Every so often, Enger drops a line that suggests future improvement as a novelist, but he's more likely to sound like someone who grew up listening to too many overheated radio plays. \"Who understands such hatred as bedeviled that doomed visitor?\" Only The Shadow knows!!! That's not even good pulp. Gee golly gosh geewhillickers!!! How Enger does love his exclamation points!!!! That way the reader knows this is sure exciting stuff!!!! The Land family lives by a facile brand of faith based on the constant miracles God performs for them. It's no great feat to believe when God entertains you with a steady stream of magic tricks. Faith is hard, sometimes heartbreaking, work. Faith is hanging onto your belief when nothing makes sense and God doesn't seem to be taking your calls. Enger tries to say something profound about faith in his book, but instead he trivializes it. ...more This might be my favorite book. I love the writing style. Randy and I read it aloud and that was perfect because there are so many quotable moments. Here's a review I found that describes it better than I can: \"A rich mixture of adventure, tragedy, and healing, \" Peace Like a River is \"a collage of legends from sources sacred and profane -- from the Old Testament to the Old West, from the Gospels to police dramas\" (Ron Charles, The Christian Science Monitor). In \"lyrical, openhearted prose\" (Mich This might be my favorite book. I love the writing style. Randy and I read it aloud and that was perfect because there are so many quotable moments. Here's a review I found that describes it better than I can: \"A rich mixture of adventure, tragedy, and healing, \" Peace Like a River is \"a collage of legends from sources sacred and profane -- from the Old Testament to the Old West, from the Gospels to police dramas\" (Ron Charles, The Christian Science Monitor). In \"lyrical, openhearted prose\" (Michael Glitz, The New York Post), Enger tells the story of eleven-year-old Reuben Land, an asthmatic boy who has reason to believe in miracles. Along with his sister and father, Reuben finds himself on a cross-country search for his outlaw older brother who has been controversially charged with murder. Their journey is touched by serendipity and the kindness of strangers, and its remarkable conclusion shows how family, love, and faith can stand up to the most terrifying of enemies, the most tragic of fates. Leif Enger's \"miraculous\" (Valerie Ryan, The Seattle Times) novel is a \"perfect book for an anxious time ... of great literary merit that nonetheless restores readers' faith in the kindness of stories\" (Marta Salij, Detroit Free Press). ...more One of the most satisfying novels I have read. This is such a difficult book to rate. I have so many differing opinions about this book that I would say it ranges from a 3 to a 4, although I don't necessarily think it is a book that I feel made a huge impact on my life, which is what I usually save 4 and 5 star ratings for. Nevertheless, I felt the writing in this book was good enough that I put it at a 4 instead of a 3. I just changed my mind and am putting it at a 3 because 4 star books I will probably read again, but I don't think I will This is such a difficult book to rate. I have so many differing opinions about this book that I would say it ranges from a 3 to a 4, although I don't necessarily think it is a book that I feel made a huge impact on my life, which is what I usually save 4 and 5 star ratings for. Nevertheless, I felt the writing in this book was good enough that I put it at a 4 instead of a 3. I just changed my mind and am putting it at a 3 because 4 star books I will probably read again, but I don't think I will read this one again. Sometimes I read a book that the writing is pretty shallow and I know that I am reading a book. Other times I read a book and the writing is pretty good and I can get carried away in the story. Then there are times when I read a book and the writing feels so real that when I stop I have to snap back into reality... that I was not actually living inside that book. Kind of like when you wake up from a dream and you have a hard time telling if it was real or not. This book was like that. At times I would look up from my book and realize that I was actually just sitting in my family room cuddled up in my blankets and that my kids were safe and sound in their beds. Some may argue that his writing could be long winded and I felt that once or twice at the end but mostly through the book I was completely sucked in by the writing. Now, here is where I get confused. This was a great story. I was completely sucked in. The writing was awesome. Then came the ending. I don't know how I feel about the ending. It wasn't unexpected. I can't complain about that. I fully expected the things to happen that did. But I am still wondering what did we learn from this story. What was the purpose of telling it. I don't feel that every story has to have a moral per se, but I am still wondering why write this story, what compelled the author to tell it. It left me with such an \"ok now what feeling\" that I can't say I loved the book or that it changed me. The thing that is the most sad to me is that this story had such potential to really pack a punch but it just ended, ended the way you expected with nothing profound from the narrator at the end. If you have read this, or if you plan to read this, I would really enjoy hearing what you thought, because if I missed something then maybe you can help me find it. ...more Great book! Great story! Great characters! I especially liked Swede and her vocabulary, not to mention her epic cowboy poems. I didn\u2019t care that she can write better than I can. And of course, Rube, who is so human, struggling with what is the right thing to do. The feeling of a brother gone bad, wanting to protect him, bring him back into the fold\u2014I know that feeling. And the breathing\u2014even though mine doesn\u2019t get that bad, I could still identify. The book was full of great imagery. I especial Great book! Great story! Great characters! I especially liked Swede and her vocabulary, not to mention her epic cowboy poems. I didn\u2019t care that she can write better than I can. And of course, Rube, who is so human, struggling with what is the right thing to do. The feeling of a brother gone bad, wanting to protect him, bring him back into the fold\u2014I know that feeling. And the breathing\u2014even though mine doesn\u2019t get that bad, I could still identify. The book was full of great imagery. I especially liked the line about searching his brain like opening every drawer of a bureau. I didn\u2019t see the end coming, but it was inevitable. I can\u2019t wait for Enger to write another novel. Amazon.com's Best of 2001 To the list of great American child narrators that includes Huck Finn and Scout Finch, let us now add Reuben \"Rube\" Land, the asthmatic 11-year-old boy at the center of Leif Enger's remarkable first novel, Peace Like a River. Rube recalls the events of his childhood, in small-town Minnesota circa 1962, in a voice that perfectly captures the poetic, verbal stoicism of the northern Great Plains. \"Here's what I saw,\" Rube warns his readers. \"Here's how it went. Make of it what you will.\" And Rube sees plenty. In the winter of his 11th year, two schoolyard bullies break into the Lands' house, and Rube's big brother Davy guns them down with a Winchester. Shortly after his arrest, Davy breaks out of jail and goes on the lam. Swede is Rube's younger sister, a precocious writer who crafts rhymed epics of romantic Western outlawry. Shortly after Davy's escape, Rube, Swede, and their father, a widowed school custodian, hit the road too, swerving this way and that across Minnesota and North Dakota, determined to find their lost outlaw Davy. In the end it's not Rube who haunts the reader's imagination, it's his father, torn between love for his outlaw son and the duty to do the right, honest thing. Enger finds something quietly heroic in the bred-in-the-bone Minnesota decency of America's heartland. Peace Like a River opens up a new chapter in Midwestern literature. ...more Once in a distant while there comes a novel that brings me to tears as I turn its final pages. It is the combination of a compelling story, vital characters, and sublime writing that fill me with awe at the writer's ability and sorrow in bidding farewell to such a treasure. Wallace Stegner's Crossing to Safety , Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice , Harper Lee's To Kill A Mockingbird are a few that have made a powerful impact. Leif Enger's Peace Like A River touched me in a similar way. Less so for Once in a distant while there comes a novel that brings me to tears as I turn its final pages. It is the combination of a compelling story, vital characters, and sublime writing that fill me with awe at the writer's ability and sorrow in bidding farewell to such a treasure. Wallace Stegner's Crossing to Safety , Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice , Harper Lee's To Kill A Mockingbird are a few that have made a powerful impact. Leif Enger's Peace Like A River touched me in a similar way. Less so for some of the story's elements, such as the Messianic qualities assigned to Jeremiah that clanged out of harmony with his more earthly physical and emotional fragility, or Davy's experiences at a South Dakota hideout that seemed to be lifted straight from Charles Frazier's Cold Mountain Appalachia. But what writing. Boy oh boy. There were sections I read several times, wanting to snip them out and paste in a scrapbook of perfect phrasing, perfect sentences and paragraphs (I'm all about sentences now, thanks to Francine Prose!). The characters, from fully-formed Reuben and Swede to the more peripheral such as Dr. Nokes, Superintendent Holgren, lawyer DeCuellar and his angel of a wife, were flesh and blood in my mind's eye- voices I could hear, faces I could see, souls that were as open or as guarded as any in real life. The story was an homage to Americana, to the romance of the American west, and to the voices of children who have spoken through some of our nation's greatest writers: James Agee, Mark Twain, Harper Lee, Betty Smith, Maya Angelou, Salinger, Steinbeck. I'm late to the party in reading Peace Like A River - it was published in 2001 - so a little late in recommending this as a book club pick. It's probably been picked to death! But there are many themes- loyalty, justification for violence, Christianity, magic, loss of innocence and longing for a simpler time and simpler way of life-that would be great fodder for discussion. _______________________________________ Need some time to let this settle in, but without a doubt this is one of the most soul-touching books I've read in a good long while. ...more There were things I really liked about this story but more things that I didn't...Overall I would say that the general story was good, but the details of plot and character interaction were random and disjointed. I loved the father's faith, the world would be a far better place if we all had faith like that to see beyond the coincidences of life and know that God is in the details. Here is a quote from the beginning of the book which gave me food for thought. \"Let me say something about that word There were things I really liked about this story but more things that I didn't...Overall I would say that the general story was good, but the details of plot and character interaction were random and disjointed. I loved the father's faith, the world would be a far better place if we all had faith like that to see beyond the coincidences of life and know that God is in the details. Here is a quote from the beginning of the book which gave me food for thought. \"Let me say something about that word: miracle. For too long it's been used to characterize things or events that, though pleasant, are entirely normal. Peeping chicks at Easter time, spring generally, a clear sunrise after an overcast week--a miracle, people say, as if they've been educated from greeting cards. I'm sorry, but nope. Such things are worth our notice every day of the week, but to call them miracles evaporates the strength of the word.\" Christianity is founded on the greatest miracle on earth: the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. Just like the angel said to Mary \"with God nothing shall be impossible\" (Luke 1:37). I think sometimes we let our finite abilities limit what God can accomplish in our lives. The miracles don't come because our faith is lacking or they come but we fail to recognize them as such with our mortal minds. Anyway, just something I thought about while reading this strange story of a dysfunctional family trying to make the best of life. ...more A book for a reading group does give one the opportunity to read things one wouldn't necessarily choose for oneself. Such is the present case. Many have found this book wonderful, the writing splendid, and the topics introduced important and compelling. I do not share this view. I found the book slow going, sentimental at times and wishy-washy at others. Some characters were believable, but didn't get my sympathy. Other characters were just not real (the genius little sister for one). The big qu A book for a reading group does give one the opportunity to read things one wouldn't necessarily choose for oneself. Such is the present case. Many have found this book wonderful, the writing splendid, and the topics introduced important and compelling. I do not share this view. I found the book slow going, sentimental at times and wishy-washy at others. Some characters were believable, but didn't get my sympathy. Other characters were just not real (the genius little sister for one). The big questions had no answers. Some may say that that's life. There are no answers. But I am uncomfortable with such relativism and believe it more cowardice on the author's part not to impart a clear point of view than artistry, allowing his creation to wallow in moral and spritualistic ambiguity. Oh, well. ...more Hands down, one of my favorite pieces of fiction. \"Peace Like a River\", the debut novel by Leif Enger, is a work of exceptional emotional power, written in prose as clean and concise as it is rich and deeply satisfying. Told through the eyes of 11 year-old Reuban Land, Enger infuses this modern day Western outlaw tale with the power of family bonds, of faith, and of miracles. Not since Harper Lee's Atticus Finch and Scout in To Kill a Mockingbird have there been characters as thoroughly good as Hands down, one of my favorite pieces of fiction. \"Peace Like a River\", the debut novel by Leif Enger, is a work of exceptional emotional power, written in prose as clean and concise as it is rich and deeply satisfying. Told through the eyes of 11 year-old Reuban Land, Enger infuses this modern day Western outlaw tale with the power of family bonds, of faith, and of miracles. Not since Harper Lee's Atticus Finch and Scout in To Kill a Mockingbird have there been characters as thoroughly good as Jeremiah Land, as heartbreakingly human as his son, Reuben and as endearingly fiesty as daughter Swede. From the opening page, Enger pulls the reader into a story full of miracles that in the hands of a lesser writer would be unbelievable. But believable it is, and its profound impact will stay with you long, long after the last page is turned. ...more I first read this several years ago, and I took it to my heart and cherished it. Now my new book club wanted to read it, and so I bought a copy and reread it. And once again, I took it to my heart and cherished it. In deceptively simple language, young Ruben talks about his father, a soft-voiced school janitor, and also a man who prays aloud to God and receives answers. A man who can heal with the touch of a hand, who works miracles with such deep humility that hardly anyone but sharp-eyed Ruben I first read this several years ago, and I took it to my heart and cherished it. Now my new book club wanted to read it, and so I bought a copy and reread it. And once again, I took it to my heart and cherished it. In deceptively simple language, young Ruben talks about his father, a soft-voiced school janitor, and also a man who prays aloud to God and receives answers. A man who can heal with the touch of a hand, who works miracles with such deep humility that hardly anyone but sharp-eyed Ruben notices. When Ruben's older brother Davy, a man of action at just sixteen, takes justice into his own hands over a threat to their family, it sends the entire family on a journey, both physical and spiritual. ...more OK! I'm finally getting around to writing a review for this book! I actually finished reading it a week ago, but wasn't able to get around to reviewing it until now because a) I got super busy and b) this is a really hard book to review. So this is what I liked about it: 1) The beautiful prose made it very enjoyable to read. It was like listening to a grandpa or favorite uncle telling stories of when he was a boy. 2) Swede's poetry, of course it's impossible for an eight year old to write poetry OK! I'm finally getting around to writing a review for this book! I actually finished reading it a week ago, but wasn't able to get around to reviewing it until now because a) I got super busy and b) this is a really hard book to review. So this is what I liked about it: 1) The beautiful prose made it very enjoyable to read. It was like listening to a grandpa or favorite uncle telling stories of when he was a boy. 2) Swede's poetry, of course it's impossible for an eight year old to write poetry like that, but still, I enjoyed it. 3) The characters were very likable. What didn't I like? Here comes the hard part. I had to think about this for a long time, it really took me a while to figure out just what it was that didn't work for me and I think I have it. The problem is this: the book sends conflicting messages. On one hand there are messages of faith and loyalty to family, on the other hand there are also messages like, it's ok to run from the law, it's ok to lie to a police officer especially if it's a Fed because Feds are bad guys, it's ok to kill someone who has wronged you and if you pray the Lord will help you to escape from the law. It's kind of weird because I really did enjoy reading the book, but then when it was over I felt bewildered and confused. It was like someone put the pieces from three different puzzles into one box and said \"Here put this puzzle together.\" No matter how hard you try, the pieces won't fit. There are parts of this book that just don't fit. It starts out with this nice American church-going family from the early sixties, they're out in the country on a family outing, hunting geese. The next thing you know the oldest son is shooting people and it's clearly not self defense. Here's another piece that doesn't fit, through most of the book the father is less than cooperative with the law, but then he'll randomly perform a miracle like he's a god or something. Where did that come from? The violence and the random supernatural stuff just doesn't fit in with the rest of the story. The most frustrating thing about this book is, it had so much potential, Enger really is a talented writer. This book could've been a powerful force for good, but instead it just leaves you scratching your head, wondering what in the heck you were supposed to get out of those 320 pages. ...more Speechless. I was utterly speechless as I reluctantly turned the last page of Enger's unforgettable novel. Hands down one of the greatest modern works of literature ever written. I highly recommend \"Peace Like a River\" to anyone who relishes beautiful prose, brilliant literary allusion, metaphor, and symbolism . . . and of course, unforgettable, colorful characters. Not since Harper Lee's precocious Scout in \"To Kill a Mockingbird\" has a character captured my heart like Enger's Swede. He has craf Speechless. I was utterly speechless as I reluctantly turned the last page of Enger's unforgettable novel. Hands down one of the greatest modern works of literature ever written. I highly recommend \"Peace Like a River\" to anyone who relishes beautiful prose, brilliant literary allusion, metaphor, and symbolism . . . and of course, unforgettable, colorful characters. Not since Harper Lee's precocious Scout in \"To Kill a Mockingbird\" has a character captured my heart like Enger's Swede. He has crafted a novel reminiscent of Mockingbird in feel and scope, which is nothing but pure magic. However, unlike Lee's novel, Enger's story encompasses a mystic realism which adds a broad spectrum of possibility for the reader to explore and discover. On the back of my paperback, one review stands out: \"Once in a great while a book comes along that has such wonderful characters and marvelous prose, that you read it as much for the pure joy it offers on every page as to find out how it ends.\" - Tom Walker, 'The Denver Post' I couldn't agree more. ...more Loved it! Told in the voice of 11 year old Reuben Land this is about family love, loyalty & a Father with a lot of faith. The events Reuben talks about cover a short period of time, less than a year but boy does it pack a punch! The writing is beautiful & flows like honey. It's a difficult subject but the humor made me smile more than a few times. Thinking of supper, I asked, \"You want us to do anything Dad.\"Persevere\", he said. Reuben Land I noticed I first attempted to read in 2009 & Loved it! Told in the voice of 11 year old Reuben Land this is about family love, loyalty & a Father with a lot of faith. The events Reuben talks about cover a short period of time, less than a year but boy does it pack a punch! The writing is beautiful & flows like honey. It's a difficult subject but the humor made me smile more than a few times. Thinking of supper, I asked, \"You want us to do anything Dad.\"Persevere\", he said. Reuben Land I noticed I first attempted to read in 2009 & had put \"too slow\". Thrilled that I gave it a second try. I've done this with other books, I think it depends on what's going on in my life & my mood at the time. ...more Goodreads reviewers who have enjoyed \u201cOrdinary Grace\u201d by William Kent Krueger highly recommended \u201cPeace Like A River\u201d by Leif Enger. The latter novel is very well reviewed but I liked it much less than the former. The book did not start well for me. There was Jeremiah Land, invoking God Almighty to summon life back into his infant son (Reuben) who had died 12 minutes ago. Alarm bells began to ring for me. I also could not stomach a goose-hunting episode that followed later in the early chapter. Goodreads reviewers who have enjoyed \u201cOrdinary Grace\u201d by William Kent Krueger highly recommended \u201cPeace Like A River\u201d by Leif Enger. The latter novel is very well reviewed but I liked it much less than the former. The book did not start well for me. There was Jeremiah Land, invoking God Almighty to summon life back into his infant son (Reuben) who had died 12 minutes ago. Alarm bells began to ring for me. I also could not stomach a goose-hunting episode that followed later in the early chapter. I have to say that the storyline is quite captivating. (view spoiler) [Jeremiah, a school janitor, foiled a rape attempt by two boys who later took revenge on the family first by kidnapping his 8-year-old daughter (Swede) and possibly molesting her. Then one night they broke into the Land property with greater evil intent. The older son, 16-year-old Davy, shot the two boys, was jailed, but escaped before he was sentenced. The plot revolved around the Christian family trying to locate Davy. They struggled with doing what was right by the law and Christian teaching and concurrently hoping that Davy could evade capture. (hide spoiler) ] I kept reading though part of me wanted to quit, because I had to know what became of the fugitive in the story. Like \u201cOrdinary Grace\u201d, this novel touched on faith, miracles and the ties that bind. There were beautiful segments where unexpected kindness and goodness abounded, and made for heartwarming reading. There are three things I did not quite appreciate about this novel. First, I prefer that fiction which hold up matters of faith do it without being overtly declarative. Second, I was also nettled by Enger\u2019s habit of breaking into poetry (written by precocious Swede) strategically when a crisis had arisen and there was pressing urgency to get on with the narrative. (view spoiler) [The scene where Swede was abducted by Israel Finch and Tommy Basca was unnerving and yet the author interspersed within the narrative a poem when all I cared about was whether Swede was going to be alright. Outrageous! (hide spoiler) ] Third, the ending was disappointing. (view spoiler) [There was a river scene by the heavenly shores signifying peace. I was feeling so sad and dejected thinking of the lives lost by the end of this story, peace was the furthest emotion. (hide spoiler) ] Each response to a novel is unique and personal. My views belong to the minority. I hope reviewers who love this novel will pardon my less enthusiastic response. ...more When I saw the glowing reviews about the spectacular prose in this novel, I thought \"OK, whatever.\" Then I opened it up and started reading, and I really was amazed by the lyrical writing. It was beautiful. As I read the story, however, I was troubled by a weird sense that I read it somewhere before. Then I realized that I had - this book is like every John Irving novel I've ever read, minus the kinky sex. It's all here: weird family dynamic, quirky characters - particularly the little sister - When I saw the glowing reviews about the spectacular prose in this novel, I thought \"OK, whatever.\" Then I opened it up and started reading, and I really was amazed by the lyrical writing. It was beautiful. As I read the story, however, I was troubled by a weird sense that I read it somewhere before. Then I realized that I had - this book is like every John Irving novel I've ever read, minus the kinky sex. It's all here: weird family dynamic, quirky characters - particularly the little sister - parental abandonment, interpreting the law for one's own reasons, sort-of supernatural events, detached narrator, etc. It was an interesting story and very beautifully written, but I felt it kind of ripped off Irving's style, too. If I didn't feel like it was such a cheap copy, I would have given it three stars. If you haven't read Irving or if you don't like his sometimes weird sexual additions, you will most likely enjoy this book. The prose really is stunning. ...more", "Title": "Peace Like a River"},
