{"Comments": "What happens when one\u2019s foundations crumble? What if the things you believed all your life turn out to have been, well,<---M> questionable? The setting is 2002 in Boston</---M>, at the height of the terrible revelations about the Church. <---C>Sheila McGann</---C> is the younger, half-sister of Arthur Breen, a popular priest who is accused of inappropriate contact with an eight-year-old boy. As narrator, Sheila tells us what she gathered from talking with everyone involved in the events. Mom fears the worst and just does What happens when one\u2019s foundations crumble? What if the things you believed all your life turn out to have been, well, questionable? The setting is 2002 in Boston, at the height of the terrible revelations about the Church. Sheila McGann is the younger, half-sister of Arthur Breen, a popular priest who is accused of inappropriate contact with an eight-year-old boy. As narrator, Sheila tells us what she gathered from talking with everyone involved in the events. Mom fears the worst and just does not want to know. Sheila\u2019s other brother, Mike, believes that Art is guilty. The Church just wants it all to go away. And Arthur seems unwilling to mount a real defense. The primary event of the book is a mystery. Unraveling the threads of that mystery gives the book its forward motion, did-he-or-didn\u2019t-he? <+++>Faith</+++> offers the fast pace, the feel of a whodunit. You will keep turning the pages and not want to put it down until you know all there is to know. But there is more to <+++>Faith</+++> than the details of what happened, when, to and by whom. Haigh presents a portrait of growing up Irish Catholic in working-class Boston, and poses questions that go beyond the experience of any ethnic or religious group. The way she goes about her story-telling is to examine a family, and related characters, person by person, peeling back the layers. In an interview for her prior book, The Condition , on her web site, jenniferhaigh.com, she said, Every story is a family story: we all come from somewhere, and it\u2019s impossible to write well-developed characters without giving a great deal of thought to their childhood environments, their early experiences, whose genetic material they\u2019re carrying around. Novels are all about causality\u2014how one thing leads to another. Characters choices have consequences that affect the next generation and even the next.<---F> She applies that methodology here</---F>. As in her previous book, The Condition , we get to see events from varying points of view until the entire truth is revealed. Although I have no direct experience with clerics in the family, I am Irish-American and was raised Catholic, spent twelve years in Bronx Catholic schools and carry the impact of my upbringing with me to this day, for good or ill. (<---B>No nasty experiences with clerics, not sexual ones anyway</---B>) The way people interact in this story has the deafening ring of truth. Perhaps not all Irish families are so secretive, so unwilling or unable to communicate on an emotional level. But plenty of us are, and Haigh has captured that characteristic to a tee. Why talk about something when you can disapprove in silence? Why confront when you can avoid? There are so many sleeping dogs lying in our families that we should probably be in the kennel business. Maybe this book hits a bit too close to home sometimes. But aside from the personal recognition quotient, there is so much going on here. How do we define ourselves? Are we solely the product of our environment? Can we escape the influences of our past, the crimes committed by our parents, the crimes committed against us? Where does free choice enter in? How are people changed? What are the dangers of removing the blinders and seeking out the truth? At one point Sheila says, \u201cSorry, Mike, but sooner or later you have to decide what you believe.\u201d It was a thing I\u2019d always known but until recently had forgotten: that faith is a decision. In its most basic form, it is a choice. Is it? Is faith a choice? This is not a trivial question in a nation so divided on issues like abortion and separation of Church and State. Not only will Haigh entertain you with an un-put-downable mystery, but she will engage you with rich, real characters, offer a look at a piece of American experience, and stimulate actual thought as well. Faith is a truly outstanding novel. Believe it. ...more This is a family drama that was hard to put down. It has an element of suspense I hadn't expected in a story of this nature. Haigh's characters come alive, and her subtle observations about family dynamics are on target. There's also a welcome absence of melodrama, which serves to strengthen the book's effect. The plot crisis occurs in 2002, when the pedophile priest scandal has rocked the Boston Archdiocese. Father Arthur Breen's family is shocked when he is accused of molesting a little boy wit This is a family drama that was hard to put down. It has an element of suspense I hadn't expected in a story of this nature. Haigh's characters come alive, and her subtle observations about family dynamics are on target. There's also a welcome absence of melodrama, which serves to strengthen the book's effect. The plot crisis occurs in 2002, when the pedophile priest scandal has rocked the Boston Archdiocese. Father Arthur Breen's family is shocked when he is accused of molesting a little boy with whom he has spent a lot of time alone. Arthur's half-sister Sheila McGann narrates the family's history as it relates to the present situation. Their background determines how each family member reacts to the allegations against Arthur. Their mother Mary never doubts for an instant that her gentle Art, her favorite child, is innocent. Sister Sheila at first believes he's innocent. When she learns of long-held secrets she begins to doubt him, then feels ashamed of that doubt. Baby brother Mike is at first hotheaded and quick to believe Art is guilty, feeling revulsion toward his brother. Upon reflection, Mike hatches an ill-advised plan to find out for sure by approaching the mother of the boy, and ends up in hot water himself. Most puzzling of all, Father Arthur Breen refuses to defend himself while facing harsh judgment from the community, fueled by media coverage. The McGanns are a family with a long history of non-communication. They've always harbored painful secrets, and never asked each other the important questions. As Arthur's ordeal unfolds they discover, too late, the consequences of that silence. To those who are wondering if the book takes a religious tone, the answer is NO. Naturally, there are details of Catholicism essential to the plot, but they don't dominate. This is true contemporary fiction, encompassing all the elements of modern life. There's no sermonizing and no whitewashing of reality, just a fine piece of storytelling. ...more <---A>Jennifer Haigh</---A> exerts a sublime spin on the unreliable narrator in this probing, poignant saga of an Irish-American family hailing from South Boston. Sheila McGann, the central narrator, left Boston and her Catholic faith years ago while her family stayed in \"Southie.\" The cardinal premise is the question of whether her half-brother, Art, a once esteemed and trusted but now disgraced and defrocked parish priest, is really guilty of alleged egregious acts. This is 2002, when the Archdiocese of Bo Jennifer Haigh exerts a sublime spin on the unreliable narrator in this probing, poignant saga of an Irish-American family hailing from South Boston. Sheila McGann, the central narrator, left Boston and her Catholic faith years ago while her family stayed in \"Southie.\" The cardinal premise is the question of whether her half-brother, Art, a once esteemed and trusted but now disgraced and defrocked parish priest, is really guilty of alleged egregious acts. This is 2002, when the Archdiocese of Boston is in the whir of sexual scandal and suppression of criminal child abuse. The story is told as verity is sought through Sheila as first-person witness to her family history. She serves as a sieve or net and sometimes a buoy or beacon and even a trespass or misstep as she harnesses the voices of her family and other witnesses. With her own voice, she intimately addresses the reader. Her destination is the hopeful arrival at truth and exoneration. Sheila, as narrator, is like the conscientious driver who reliably navigates known roads, and aims to steer well through dim or dark patches and thick blankets of fog. But the cursory compass of her mother's stoicism, Art's dubious determinism, and (her brother) Mike's aggressive loss of faith in Art keep Sheila and the reader in the alternating shadows of fact and fallacy. We're on a guided (and sometimes inadvertently misguided) tour of one family's hell and well of secrets, lies, and fault lines. We move in time with Sheila to parse gospel from myth. What we do know is that Sheila's mother had two husbands. The first man fled when Art was a baby, and the Catholic Church subsequently annulled the marriage. The second one, Ted, is the alcoholic father of Sheila and Mike, a man whose liver is now the size of a moving van and whose brain is the size of a pea. He lives in the basement of the house with his baseball on television and fragmented memories. Once a tyrant, he is now a pussycat. Sheila's mother, still attractive in her sixties, is the repository of guilt, denial, and appearances. Her preference for Art above her other two children is sinfully transparent and her store of secrets and silence is woefully debilitating. Mike lives ten minutes away with his urbane Lutheran wife, Abby, who detests all things Catholic. Their sons, much to Abby's opposition, receive a Catholic education. Their marriage becomes strained after Art's disgrace from the parish, and Mike vows to find out the truth as Abby's hatred and mistrust of the Catholic Church is vindicated and exacerbated by the scandal. Furthermore, Sheila's attempt to communicate with Art is thwarted by his evasive passivity. The story's progression from shadow to light is finessed by Haigh's ability to organically and gradually tease out the repressed and unknown facts and annex it to Sheila's existing information and beliefs. Nuggets of truth are mined from artifact with shattering grace, and the weight of the past and the sorrow of the present intersect with astonishing clarity. The author took a potentially explosive and sensationalistic premise and turned it into a predominantly quiet, tenacious story of doubt, faith, and redemption. The novel is equally appealing to the secular or orthodox, and Haigh's natural and luminous prose shimmers on every page. There's no preaching or melodrama glossing the story or lurid and commercial exploitation lacing the events. It is a deliberating but nuanced treatment of a subject too often made smarmy and shrill by the media. The focus is the substance of family and the binding and severed ties that tangle the heart. ...more I think Jennifer Haigh is an amazing writer, who attacks her topic head on with such great creativity and craftsmanship. This is what Jodi Picoult wants to be, but Haigh's writing is so exceptional, and she deals with the topic with care and delicacy, walking a tightrope balanced between the usual reactions. This is Sheila's McGann's story about her family. Art is a priest in the Boston area, accused of molesting a boy in his parish. The family grew up in Boston, and their mother is a devout lif I think Jennifer Haigh is an amazing writer, who attacks her topic head on with such great creativity and craftsmanship. This is what Jodi Picoult wants to be, but Haigh's writing is so exceptional, and she deals with the topic with care and delicacy, walking a tightrope balanced between the usual reactions. This is Sheila's McGann's story about her family. Art is a priest in the Boston area, accused of molesting a boy in his parish. The family grew up in Boston, and their mother is a devout lifelong Catholic. Brother Mike is a family man, an ex-cop turned real estate agent, still church going, although his wife, Abby, a Protestant is disillusioned with raising her boys in the Church. Sheila has left the Boston area, she is an academic who has pretty much left her faith and the Boston she grew up in behind, happily. Haigh has done a magnificent job with these characters. Using Sheila as a narrator, the linchpin between the other 3 family members, is genius. She admits to her own shortcomings and doubts, and tells the story as honestly as she is capable of doing so. Sheila acknowledges the reasons for the damage done in the family's life, without blaming and finger pointing. The writing in this book was so good! So many amazing gems about family and faith, she is right on the mark, constantly. Sheila on love: \"We love those who fit the peculiar voids within us, our hollow wounds. We love to fill the spaces of old loves left behind.\"(p 314). Sheila on her lack of faith.: \"My own faith is a relic kept under glass, a holy curiosity like the bones of a saint.\" (p 300). On family: \"Every one of us limps from old wounds. In a perverse way, they entertain. We poke each other's tender places with a stick.\" (p 82). It is hard to even begin to describe this book without giving too much away, so I won't attempt to try. You'll find plenty of synopses of this book here and elsewhere. Just know this: Haigh has created some very believable, wonderful characters, ones that you don't necessarily want to like, but you can help but like them. You feel for them, you know them. Or at least I did. Haigh has taken such a difficult subject and turned it into a story of true grace. I love that. A must read. Truly insightful on the topics of faith and the Catholic priest sex scandal. ...more Faith by Jennifer Haigh is a complex, disturbing, and thought provoking novel about an Irish-American family that takes on the difficult topic of child abuse within the Catholic Church. Most of the story is told as seen through the eyes of Sheila McGann, Sheila is a teacher, divorced and disillusioned not only by the church but also by life. Firstly this book deals with the family's reaction to the news that one of their own has been accused of child abuse. I was very hesitant about reading this Faith by Jennifer Haigh is a complex, disturbing, and thought provoking novel about an Irish-American family that takes on the difficult topic of child abuse within the Catholic Church. Most of the story is told as seen through the eyes of Sheila McGann, Sheila is a teacher, divorced and disillusioned not only by the church but also by life. Firstly this book deals with the family's reaction to the news that one of their own has been accused of child abuse. I was very hesitant about reading this book because of the tough subject matter but I loved how Jennifer Haigh presents the this story and at no stage is the reader confronted with uncomfortable details of child abuse but yet Haigh leaves you wondering and asking questions. The characters are wonderfully written and each and every one is believable and I found myself drawn into this novel from page one. I loved the complexity of the McCann family and as with any family confronted with difficulty how they cope with news and how it affects each one of them and their extended families, I especially found the character of Abby (Mike's wife)intriguing and a character while secondary in the novel for me was so important to the story. This would make a wonderful book club read as its one of those books that would provide excellent discussion material. ...more When I first started reading this book I thought one would have to be Catholic to identify with this story but that was because the author did such a fantastic job with the tone and the setting. I could just picture my old neighborhood and Catholic school in Chicago, really felt like I was there again. When you read fourther, however, you realize there is so much more to this book and the problems it outlines could pertain to so many other things, anyone who reads the papers will find this relev When I first started reading this book I thought one would have to be Catholic to identify with this story but that was because the author did such a fantastic job with the tone and the setting. I could just picture my old neighborhood and Catholic school in Chicago, really felt like I was there again. When you read fourther, however, you realize there is so much more to this book and the problems it outlines could pertain to so many other things, anyone who reads the papers will find this relevant. How quick we are to judge without considering a person can be innocent but their lives are ruined nontheless and not just theirs but family and friends alike. This is probably one of the best novels I have read in a long time. ...more Religion relies strongly on faith \u2013 a complete trust or confidence without substantive proof. It is precisely that tenet of faith that is required from the McGann family when the eldest son, Art, a popular and compassionate priest, is charged with the heinous crime of pedophilia. But faith in one another doesn\u2019t come easily to the McGanns. Their lives have been carefully constructed upon secret after secret. In fact, everything is so shrouded in secrecy that when Sheila \u2013 the narrator \u2013 performs Religion relies strongly on faith \u2013 a complete trust or confidence without substantive proof. It is precisely that tenet of faith that is required from the McGann family when the eldest son, Art, a popular and compassionate priest, is charged with the heinous crime of pedophilia. But faith in one another doesn\u2019t come easily to the McGanns. Their lives have been carefully constructed upon secret after secret. In fact, everything is so shrouded in secrecy that when Sheila \u2013 the narrator \u2013 performs an act of rebellion in cutting her hair in a buzz cut, she implies that her hair is short because she has cancer\u2026anything to avoid being viewed as different. The revelation of Art\u2019s pedophilia \u2013 if, indeed, he is guilty \u2013 strains the already tenuous connections this family has. Sheila is caught between her two brothers: Art, the mysterious and kind older brother and Mike, a former cop-turned-Realtor who has sons of his own and has perhaps already condemned Art deep inside. And then there\u2019s their mother, a woman who is incapable of empathy or communication. This is a surprisingly nuanced look at the Catholic church in its darkest hour and the forces that threaten to tear it apart. At the same time, it is a subtle and psychological look at one family who has trusted that church and now must rely on its faith to go forward. Many who are not religious have questioned who would want to live in the unnatural state of celibacy. Certainly Sheila wonders. Art does not give the boilerplate answer; instead, he responds, \u201cLove to marriage to home and family connect those dots, and you get the approximate shape of most people\u2019s lives. Take them away, and you lose any hope for connection. You give up your place in the world.\u201d Faith, then, is a theme that extends beyond the faith that is played out every Sunday. It is the doubt and redemption of ordinary people who find themselves in extraordinarily difficult circumstances and who must believe in one another\u2026or not. This elegantly crafted book implies that faith is not the easiest thing to achieve. ...more I am a sucker for family dramas: I go to weddings and marvel as the ghosts of my dead relatives pass before me, reincarnated in the bodies of their children and grandchildren. I am a lapsed Catholic from a long line of religious cynics and, as a native New Yorker, I've always felt some skepticism about Boston with its Red Sox mania and Irish hegemony. (view spoiler) [ (hide spoiler) ] Faith encompasses all of these elements, as it delves into one family's struggles after the eldest son, a middle-ag I am a sucker for family dramas: I go to weddings and marvel as the ghosts of my dead relatives pass before me, reincarnated in the bodies of their children and grandchildren. I am a lapsed Catholic from a long line of religious cynics and, as a native New Yorker, I've always felt some skepticism about Boston with its Red Sox mania and Irish hegemony. (view spoiler) [ (hide spoiler) ] Faith encompasses all of these elements, as it delves into one family's struggles after the eldest son, a middle-aged priest, is accused of sexually abusing a young boy. To do this Jennifer Haigh mimics the work of other authors, especially Mary Gordon and Alice McDermott , but unlike them, her prose is often plodding and inelegant. Many of her characters are straight out of central casting. The central question of faith, which concerns all Catholics as they confront the interconnected challenges of reform and survival, remains unresolved. Although I'm a sucker for a lot of things, I resent a sucker punch. You'd do better to stream the movie, Doubt. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Most of you have heard, by now, what happened to my brother, or a version of it: the alarming events of that spring and summer, the single, vile accusation, still unproven, that made a ruin of his life. *{p.10} Synopsis: When Sheila McGann sets out to redeem her disgraced brother, a once-beloved Catholic priest in suburban Boston, her quest will force her to confront cataclysmic truths about her fractured Irish-American family, her beliefs, and, ultimately, herself. My Thoughts: This book literally Most of you have heard, by now, what happened to my brother, or a version of it: the alarming events of that spring and summer, the single, vile accusation, still unproven, that made a ruin of his life. *{p.10} Synopsis: When Sheila McGann sets out to redeem her disgraced brother, a once-beloved Catholic priest in suburban Boston, her quest will force her to confront cataclysmic truths about her fractured Irish-American family, her beliefs, and, ultimately, herself. My Thoughts: This book literally drew me into the story and held me captive for over a day. It touched me and has made me stop and think about judgment.....and how we all are so quick to place blame on someone else. The way the author wrote kept me spellbound. I felt as if I was walking beside each one of these characters as their shadow and was afforded the luxury of knowing their true hearts. The story is ripped from the headlines and could be explosive in the wrong hands, but Haigh deftly weaves her tale without causing the reader to get up on any type of soapbox. Instead, she takes you slowly and surely through this family drama that is laced with sadness, regret, hurt, secrets, and redemption. Recommend? In a heart beat....her writing flows and is exquisite. I've become a bit enraptured by her writing style and look forward to spending time with another of her creations! Rating: 10/10 ...more Faith is one of the most powerful books that I have read in a long time. The author's writing is spellbinding. She weaves a tale that, as a reader, you think that you know where she is going and then she turns the story around and takes you to places you didn't expect. I just finished the book and must say that it touched me on so many levels that it left me feeling as if I personally knew these characters, this family. The author tells the story mainly through the voice of the sister of the acc Faith is one of the most powerful books that I have read in a long time. The author's writing is spellbinding. She weaves a tale that, as a reader, you think that you know where she is going and then she turns the story around and takes you to places you didn't expect. I just finished the book and must say that it touched me on so many levels that it left me feeling as if I personally knew these characters, this family. The author tells the story mainly through the voice of the sister of the accused priest and how each member of the family handles the allegations as the story unfolds. There are discoveries uncovered, truths revealed and challenges to the core of their beliefs in religion, faith, family loyalty and love. We have all read the headlines, stories told, secrets whispered and what we really don't know is the truth. Who are we to judge when we don't know the truth on both sides? This novel brilliantly explores these issues and will make you question your own self on how easy we can judge others, even our own family members. Faith by Jennifer Haigh is a family drama that is well-crafted, thoughtful and infused with emotions, secrets, regrets, sadness, love and forgiveness. This book is a page turner, one that will touch you deeply and you will think about these characters and this family long after you turn the last page. ...more I really loved this book; it was poignant, funny, understandable, and ultimately tragic. I had read a review earlier that said this book wasn't as good as the author's earlier works, like \"The Condition\", but I disagree. It's told by the the sister of a priest accused of molesting a child; I won't give away the plot but it gives a lot of food for thought about automatically condemning someone in this position based just on an accusation. Even the priest's own family has doubts, and in context th I really loved this book; it was poignant, funny, understandable, and ultimately tragic. I had read a review earlier that said this book wasn't as good as the author's earlier works, like \"The Condition\", but I disagree. It's told by the the sister of a priest accused of molesting a child; I won't give away the plot but it gives a lot of food for thought about automatically condemning someone in this position based just on an accusation. Even the priest's own family has doubts, and in context they make sense, but I really felt for the priest, the boy, the priest's family and the boy's family as their stories were told. It has great background on Catholicism in Boston too, which was interesting to read as a fallen-away Catholic myself. I would definitely recommend this book, and I think I will try to get my bookclub to read it too. Must add a favorite quote from when the priest is at pre-seminary high school and received 99 on an exam: \"He had made no errors, but Father Fleury did not award 100s. He subtracted one point, always, for original sin.\" (Totally captures the ridiculousness of a lot of Catholic dogma to me, so pretty funny.) ...more This book surprised me -- not only in what it did well but also what it did poorly. Overall, I liked it. I recommend it for anyone interested in a good family drama. The good: The premise of the novel is great -- a priest scandal and how it tears one family apart. It's why I chose the book. At its most basic, it reads like a did-he-or-didn't-he mystery, peeling off the layers of an onion to get to the truth. I also liked her writing. Easy to read and it flows well from one scene to the next. It's This book surprised me -- not only in what it did well but also what it did poorly. Overall, I liked it. I recommend it for anyone interested in a good family drama. The good: The premise of the novel is great -- a priest scandal and how it tears one family apart. It's why I chose the book. At its most basic, it reads like a did-he-or-didn't-he mystery, peeling off the layers of an onion to get to the truth. I also liked her writing. Easy to read and it flows well from one scene to the next. It's a quasi-stream-of-consciousness style with some interesting quirks (given that Sheila continues to narrate the scenes she's pieced together from other accounts). The atmosphere she creates of the life of a priest is done quite well. Lots of attention to detail makes it feel very realistic. The bad: Haigh commits two of the most basic flaws in what's considered good writing: telling instead of showing and fast-swapping points of view. Most readers may not even notice, but it slapped my across the face like a wet fish before I finished the first chapter. Some may call it \"structurally ambitious\"; I call it just plain bad. Early on, I kept asking myself, \"Is there an actual story here?\" The narrator says on numerous occasions, \"I'll get to that later.\" Page 25 starts with \"The story begins...\" Only it doesn't. More backstory. The first 45 pages are almost solid internal monologue (telling), and while the writing is decent, it's quite forgettable too. If you read the back cover of the book, you've got the gist. The novel just doesn't need it. From there on, the writing is great. Haigh mixes Sheila's own discoveries with stories from Art and other characters seamlessly. The pacing is good, and it builds enough mystery and investment in the characters to make for a decent book. Character development is marvelous (outside Haigh's irrepressible need to tell the reader instead of showing them). I didn't have a problem with present-day Ted McGann being characterized as having Alzheimer's but the disease is NOT caused by severe alcoholism. Alcoholic dementia has been studied and observed to improve if the affected person stays sober (no loss of brain cells occurs, merely shrinkage of white matter, which is a reversible state). But I digress... The novel itself plays fast and loose with point of view. In a couple locations, the point of view changes are ambiguous. Instead of heightening the tension, as it tries to do, it comes off more confusing that it needs to, especially when adding in asides from Shelia. Conclusion: I think most people who pick up this novel are going to be pleased with it. I enjoyed it (the story itself is great), but it could've been better if the characters' backstories were better integrated in the novel. Haigh tells the reader a lot of things that are pretty obvious once she gets to scenes they're actually in. As with everything, it all comes down to personal preference. In deciding whether or not to read this novel, ask yourself one question -- will you feel cheated knowing in advance that most of the novel's characterization is done via telling instead of showing? It's the main problem I had with the novel, but it's a big one. I'd give it 3.5 stars if I could. ...more I have read Jennifer Haigh's previous novels but none of them can surpass the excellence of Faith. Many writers avoid writing about who they are and what they really know to avoid the label of a `Catholic writer\" or a \"Jewish writer,\" I have discovered that when writers with extraordinary ability have confidence to create a story and utilize their background, they develop their best work. Jennifer Haigh is one of them. (Jonathan Tropper and Phillip Roth are two others). If she were not Catholic, I have read Jennifer Haigh's previous novels but none of them can surpass the excellence of Faith. Many writers avoid writing about who they are and what they really know to avoid the label of a `Catholic writer\" or a \"Jewish writer,\" I have discovered that when writers with extraordinary ability have confidence to create a story and utilize their background, they develop their best work. Jennifer Haigh is one of them. (Jonathan Tropper and Phillip Roth are two others). If she were not Catholic, we would not have had the opportunity to feel the emotions of the family, the religious settings, the nuances and the haunting influence of the Church. In this almost-perfect novel, Haigh embarked upon a multi-level story of Art, a young man who became a priest. He was born to a young woman whose husband left mysteriously when he was an infant. His mother, who enjoyed dance halls, married Ted McGann, a mean alcoholic and had two more children with him, Mike and Sheila. Art's mother became a pleaser and an enabler. She satisfied her husband, Ted, at all costs and pleased the Church seeking comfort and atonement. Her faith and unwavering devotion was answered when Art became a priest. Art was a good quiet kid, different from the others, and went along with the Church's rules and politics. There is not one part of this magnificent story when you don't feel the hand of the Church and its devotees or those who doubt its power. Haigh gives us a timely story of the Church's current pedophile issues as it fights to retain control of parishioners, priests and nuns. Art is a good man, dedicated to helping others despite the supremacy of other priests and senior clerics. This book is for everyone. The reader does not have to be Catholic to feel the influence of the religion on the family in all its glory. The good, the bad and the purely spiritual are depicted in each member of Art Breen's family. The secondary characters, Abby, Mike's wife, plays an important role as does Kath Conlon, the accuser. What brought me the greatest sadness in this novel was not that the Church had hidden the abuse but when a priest was accused without proof, how quickly the years of devotion were erased, again for the sake of the Church. What brought me the most solace is the devotion of the family, no matter what they believed. It went beyond the Church's authority and surpassed dogma and prejudice. Haigh's use of Sheila as the narrator showed extraordinary talent. Sheila told us the story but she eased us into the others' experiences as if they were telling us what happened. Haigh was able to depict Catholics and non-Catholics with the edge of truth and comfort. I highly recommend this book. ...more 3.5 stars I couldn't help but compare this novel to Shanley's brilliant play, Doubt given the an allegation of molestation by a priest is the central issue. Haigh's novel is bigger, broader and more concerned with relationship than the play, but doesn't contain the same sort of tension Shanley evokes. What Haigh does brilliantly is create atmosphere. She knows Boston. She knows Irish Catholic families. She knows dysfunction and sibling relationships. All the surrounding environment of the novel is 3.5 stars I couldn't help but compare this novel to Shanley's brilliant play, Doubt given the an allegation of molestation by a priest is the central issue. Haigh's novel is bigger, broader and more concerned with relationship than the play, but doesn't contain the same sort of tension Shanley evokes. What Haigh does brilliantly is create atmosphere. She knows Boston. She knows Irish Catholic families. She knows dysfunction and sibling relationships. All the surrounding environment of the novel is perfect. She also masterfully holds some plot surprises at bay, taking readers to unexpected places. As with her earlier novel, The Condition , Haigh is tackling the fallout within a family dealing with catastrophe. She hits all the right notes, but what I really craved was a sense of tension. ...more My sister and I were discussing this book yesterday, and I asked her why she didn't give it five stars. We agreed that we want our five star ratings to be really meaningful, and try to reserve them for the really great books. Her issue with this book was that the narrator sometimes felt less like a personality and more like a writer documenting events, and that the narrator's behavior in context didn't always jive with her voice. My sister has a point, but I still thought this was a great read a My sister and I were discussing this book yesterday, and I asked her why she didn't give it five stars. We agreed that we want our five star ratings to be really meaningful, and try to reserve them for the really great books. Her issue with this book was that the narrator sometimes felt less like a personality and more like a writer documenting events, and that the narrator's behavior in context didn't always jive with her voice. My sister has a point, but I still thought this was a great read and I'm going to go ahead and give it the full five stars. A priest named Arthur stands accused of molesting a young boy from a difficult background. The story is narrated by his sister, Sheila, who gradually fleshes out Arthur's story, the boy's story, the story of her and Arthur's difficult upbringing, and the events leading up to and following the accusation for everyone involved, including Sheila's other brother Mike. The writing reads smoothly, the characters are complex and feel real, and the story keeps you guessing about Arthur's guilt or innocence. The story also touches on the idea of religious faith and whether it can or should be maintained in the face of disappointing behavior. Enjoyable, absorbing, provocative -- what more could you want from a good novel? Five stars. ...more I just turned the last page on an excellent book that I want you all to know about. The book is Faith by Jennifer Haigh. If you read a synopsis of the book, don't be put off by what is seemingly another novel about a child abuse scandal involving a priest. This book is much more than that. The story is narrated by Sheila McGann, a lapsed Catholic from a dysfunctionally blended family. But don't tell Sheila it's a blended family; she claims that it wasn't so much blended as two separate families I just turned the last page on an excellent book that I want you all to know about. The book is Faith by Jennifer Haigh. If you read a synopsis of the book, don't be put off by what is seemingly another novel about a child abuse scandal involving a priest. This book is much more than that. The story is narrated by Sheila McGann, a lapsed Catholic from a dysfunctionally blended family. But don't tell Sheila it's a blended family; she claims that it wasn't so much blended as two separate families grafted on to one another. Shelia is a fantastic narrator: compassionate, astute, and brutally honest about her own blind spots and biases. Her oldest brother, Art, is accused of using his trusted position of priest as an opportunity to molest a young boy. Sheila leads us through Art's (and her own) childhood, his mediocre career as a priest, and his disgrace. Along the way, she paints amazing character portraits of her other family members, and the young woman who is suing the Church for allowing her son to be molested. I loved this book, and I highly recommend it. (Can you tell?) ...more I was torn about this novel. On one hand, some of the characters seem to express the usually anti-Catholic tropes, which drove me crazy. Two, a novel about the clergy abuse scandal seems primed for Catholic bashing, and there was a bit of that. It was almost like the film \"Doubt\", where the priests are portrayed as jolly, devil-may-care-as-long-as-I-get-a-steak-dinner types. But the main characters were well-drawn and the ending made me gasp. But if you're not Catholic, I definitely wouldn't tak I was torn about this novel. On one hand, some of the characters seem to express the usually anti-Catholic tropes, which drove me crazy. Two, a novel about the clergy abuse scandal seems primed for Catholic bashing, and there was a bit of that. It was almost like the film \"Doubt\", where the priests are portrayed as jolly, devil-may-care-as-long-as-I-get-a-steak-dinner types. But the main characters were well-drawn and the ending made me gasp. But if you're not Catholic, I definitely wouldn't take anything in it at total face value, as in, \"This is how the Church operates.\" Also, her take on Vatican II and the reign of John Paul II are a bit derrogatory--she writes that JPII pushed the church \"backward\" and that Vatican II might move the church \"into the twentieth (or at least nienteeth) century\". Anyone who writes about Catholics and Catholicism needs to acknowlege something--the Church does not change because society does, or because societal mores do. This is not a bad thing. ...more Haigh sets her story in Boston in 2004, shortly after scandal began to rock the Catholic diocese. Many priests had been accused of sexually abusing young people, and the large Catholic community was devastated. Sheila McGann tells the story of her half-brother, Art Breen, a priest accused by an eight-year-old boy's mother of molesting her son. There is an element of mystery to the novel as Sheila attempts to discover whether the charges are true. Art's mother, a devout Catholic, believes her son c Haigh sets her story in Boston in 2004, shortly after scandal began to rock the Catholic diocese. Many priests had been accused of sexually abusing young people, and the large Catholic community was devastated. Sheila McGann tells the story of her half-brother, Art Breen, a priest accused by an eight-year-old boy's mother of molesting her son. There is an element of mystery to the novel as Sheila attempts to discover whether the charges are true. Art's mother, a devout Catholic, believes her son could never do what he is accused of. Sheila's brother Mike, a former cop and father of three young boys, is disgusted, believing that no eight-year-old boy could lie about being molested. Sheila supports Art, but has her doubts. The title of the book, Faith, is brilliant, for this is a book not about religious faith, but more about faith in your family. Sheila says to Mike, \"Sorry, Mike, but sooner or later you have to decide what you believe.\" It was a thing I'd always known but until recently had forgotten: that faith is a decision. In its most basic form, it is a choice. I love those lines, because faith really is an active thing. You can grow up attending mass every week, participating in the sacraments, but to really have faith, you have to choose to believe in something. Family is at the heart of this novel, and Sheila's family has its troubles, like most. She says: We are a family of secrets. Without knowing quite how I knew it, I understood what might be said, and what must be quiet. If from the outside the rules appeared arbitrary, from the inside they were perfectly clear. I suspect that Sheila's family is not as unlike other families as she believes. I think many people reading this book will relate to the McGann/Breen family. What I like about Haigh's books is that the characters are so real, you think that you actually know them. Father Art is the most well drawn. He is a lonely man, even as a youth; perhaps being a stepson and stepbrother added to that sense of being different. As a priest, Art cannot marry or have a family of his own, and this isolation hurts him. His loneliness is palpable, and when he meets the young boy and his drug-addicted mother, he feels a sense of family and belonging. The least well drawn character is Art's mother. Sheila and Mike do not like their mother, they make many cutting comments about her, but I was never clear exactly what she had done to warrant this dislike. She seems to be very distant from her children, and perhaps the author made her character less clear to her children to emphasize that distance. Faith is an emotional ride, and it affected me deeply. Days later, I find myself still thinking about Father Art, my heart aching for him. The writing is superb, the characters are so real. It is simply the best book I have read this year. It ranks up with Emma Donoghue's amazing Room in the emotions that I felt when I read it. I grew up in a Catholic family, and that part of the story resonates with me, but you do not have to be Catholic to appreciate the richness of this story. If you have siblings, you will understand the feelings here. ...more Set in Boston during the 2002 priest sexual abuse scandals, Faith challenges us to look beyond the crimes to examine how human interactions change after the accusations. Sheila McGann, the novel's main character and narrator, is the half-sister of Arthur Breen, a once-popular cleric now ensnared in charges of abusing a young boy. Returning to her family, with whom she has difficult relations, Sheila attempts to support her embattled sibling, but everyone, including Art himself, seems unwilling o Set in Boston during the 2002 priest sexual abuse scandals, Faith challenges us to look beyond the crimes to examine how human interactions change after the accusations. Sheila McGann, the novel's main character and narrator, is the half-sister of Arthur Breen, a once-popular cleric now ensnared in charges of abusing a young boy. Returning to her family, with whom she has difficult relations, Sheila attempts to support her embattled sibling, but everyone, including Art himself, seems unwilling or emotionally unable to cooperate. Ultimately, this powerful novel is about how one family responds to a devastating crisis. A provocative choice for book clubs. This is the kind of book you put down and feel viscerally moved and thinking, feeling, and mulling over the book. At first blush, it appears to be a simple story. Art, part of the Boston Diocese, has been accused of sexually molesting a child. Yet the book begins with Arthur's mother, shortly after Arthur was born. She's alone in the house, waiting for her long overdue husband. Her mother-in-law, who never accepted her, is dead and her marriage is not looking much better. She shamelessly chased the man who is her husband, found herself pregnant, quickly married by an uncle priest, and now shady characters are looking for her husband. The story is revealed by Arthur's half sister, Sheila, told through her investigations and first person. It is not simply a quest for innocence or guilt, but a quest for understanding of the family dynamics, how each person plays a part in the saga, and the historical drive. Each character is flawed but not broken. Each character is complicated and not easily summarized. Aiden, the alleged victim plays a surprisingly small part. It is feast for a book club. So many issues are addressed. Although not Catholic, I believe one theme that could be explored is the requirement of celibacy. Also, a discussion of severity of sins. Then the purpose of love, family dynamics, societal need to demonize the accused, and, of course, a discussion on the true victim(s) of the book. A couple of nuggets: \"The adult who preys on children is, to the rest of us, a frightening enigma. Of their inner lives we know little, and a little knowledge is more dangerous than none. While it is true that most pedophiles were themselves victims, it turns out that the correlation is weaker in the other direction. Not all victims grow up to be predators.\" p. 316 \"...each new love is built from the wreckage of the loves that came before... We love those who fit the peculiar voids within us, our hollow wounds. We love to fill the spaces the old loves left behind.\" p. 314 A deeply moving and articulate book. ...more It's a sound decision to approach from the outside looking in a story of a priest accused of molestation. It's such a private crime (or accusation) and galvanizes the public so much, there's a great sense of the unknown. Just what happened? Jennifer Haigh's narrator in \"Faith\" is the sister of the accused, and she tells the story through her own assumptions and reconstructions of half-known details and her dealings with her brother. Unfortunately, Haigh's story is sunk by the potential pitfalls o It's a sound decision to approach from the outside looking in a story of a priest accused of molestation. It's such a private crime (or accusation) and galvanizes the public so much, there's a great sense of the unknown. Just what happened? Jennifer Haigh's narrator in \"Faith\" is the sister of the accused, and she tells the story through her own assumptions and reconstructions of half-known details and her dealings with her brother. Unfortunately, Haigh's story is sunk by the potential pitfalls of such an approach: never being able to really get inside the story because the telling of it is too distanced. I liked the author's \"The Condition,\" though, er ... conditionally ... and had high hopes for this one that never panned out. The main problem is that it is, frankly, extraordinarily dull. One could sum up the first third of the story in two sentences. Haigh takes entirely too long to get on with things, and it's utterly crippling. I was not interested in the characters nor, surprisingly \u2014 because I think the author is talented \u2014 the writing. The trade paperback's cover is really pretty, though. It all makes \"Faith,\" a novel tackling a darkly fascinating idea and one \"ripped from the headlines\" as they like to say, a big disappointment. Based on the Goodreads ratings, I'm obviously in the minority here, but I was so bored with the novel I found myself reading by rote without comprehending anything for considerable stretches. ...more Last year, I read Jennifer Haigh's The Condition and called it my favorite book of the year. Having just finished another of her books, as early in the year as it is, this may be it. Faith centers around the child abuse scandal in the Catholic church, specifically Boston in the 2000's when the scandal was exploding in the city. But the novel is really about the McGann family. The oldest son, Art, is a priest who stands accused of abusing a child. His family is divided in their support of him. His Last year, I read Jennifer Haigh's The Condition and called it my favorite book of the year. Having just finished another of her books, as early in the year as it is, this may be it. Faith centers around the child abuse scandal in the Catholic church, specifically Boston in the 2000's when the scandal was exploding in the city. But the novel is really about the McGann family. The oldest son, Art, is a priest who stands accused of abusing a child. His family is divided in their support of him. His brother is disgusted by his mother whose trust in Art's innocence is absolute. Worse, his sister, Sheila. \"If he did it, you'd forgive him,\" he says to her, and she doesn't deny it. Sheila narrates the story, assuming an omniscient viewpoint that allows her to tell it from each character's perspective, combining her knowledge of them with the versions they have told her. Faith is another portrait of a dysfunctional family, as sick as it's secrets. Sheila's awareness that by writing it all down, she'll be shattering that silence, had me checking and rechecking the book jacket to be sure this wasn't a memoir. I thought I knew where the story was going, but was happy to be wrong. Haigh is an expert at depicting the complicated history and specific architecture of family. I am very glad to see she has other novels out so I don't need to wait another year. ...more Jennifer Haigh\u2019s Faith touches nerves that leave the reader squirming a bit. Haigh\u2019s examination of family dynamics and dysfunction reaches into that place in our minds where we hold our family secrets, the secrets that perhaps no one else would even care about but are there nonetheless because we cover them with the shame we\u2019ve been told we should feel. She examines the McGann family\u2019s journey through life including their family secrets and the secrets they keep from one another in the name of Jennifer Haigh\u2019s Faith touches nerves that leave the reader squirming a bit. Haigh\u2019s examination of family dynamics and dysfunction reaches into that place in our minds where we hold our family secrets, the secrets that perhaps no one else would even care about but are there nonetheless because we cover them with the shame we\u2019ve been told we should feel. She examines the McGann family\u2019s journey through life including their family secrets and the secrets they keep from one another in the name of protecting the family while drawing an interesting parallel to the secrets that are kept to protect people\u2019s faith. The parallel between the main character\u2019s brother\u2019s unwillingness to defend himself against accusations in order to keep another secret seem both sacrificial and selfish at the same time. While at times the reader may want to stop reading due to the subject matter, Haigh draws the reader into the lives of the McGanns so much the reader has to know what happens next. The McGann family is so real in their struggles, their secrets, their faith, and their dysfunction, they could be the family next door or the reader\u2019s own if the reader is brave enough to admit it. ...more I was hooked on this excellently written novel right from the first chapter. I was not raised Catholic, nor am I now religious, but this book should appeal to nearly anyone who can look at the world with an open mind, religious and non-religious alike. While the press is sensationalizing the pedophile-priest scandals, there is a human tendency for us to forget that not everyone accused is guilty, and that those not guilty are human individuals, with real lives, loved ones, and feelings. This book I was hooked on this excellently written novel right from the first chapter. I was not raised Catholic, nor am I now religious, but this book should appeal to nearly anyone who can look at the world with an open mind, religious and non-religious alike. While the press is sensationalizing the pedophile-priest scandals, there is a human tendency for us to forget that not everyone accused is guilty, and that those not guilty are human individuals, with real lives, loved ones, and feelings. This book takes you inside the world of one such individual, and you feel every stone that is thrust, once you can discover what they really are. That's the real mystery of this novel. There's intrigue, very likable characters (along with some very unlikable ones), and a plot that should make you stop and think about some of your own fears and prejudices, and the consequences they could have. For me, it all made this well written novel a moving, enlightening and memorable experience. Highly recommended. ...more Jennifer Haigh once again proves herself a master storyteller and a keen observer of family dysfunction. Haigh\u2019s latest, Faith, centers on the Boston based, Irish-American McGann family. Sheila McGann, the narrator of Faith, has escaped her unusual family and moved to Philadelphia, only to be called back in the Spring of 2002 when her older brother, Art, a priest, is accused of improper conduct by a parishioner. Amid the many claims of sexual abuse by priests the Diocese adopts a zero tolerance Jennifer Haigh once again proves herself a master storyteller and a keen observer of family dysfunction. Haigh\u2019s latest, Faith, centers on the Boston based, Irish-American McGann family. Sheila McGann, the narrator of Faith, has escaped her unusual family and moved to Philadelphia, only to be called back in the Spring of 2002 when her older brother, Art, a priest, is accused of improper conduct by a parishioner. Amid the many claims of sexual abuse by priests the Diocese adopts a zero tolerance policy and Art\u2019s situation is suddenly front page news. Shelia begins to discover long buried family secrets as she examines and explores her own faith, Catholic dogma, and her beliefs about her brother. Haigh deftly combines an attentive exploration of an individual family with a gripping, suspenseful story torn from the headlines. Haigh\u2019s complex and broken characters are well developed and readers will find themselves quickly turning pages to learn the fate of the McGann family. Faith is Jennifer Haigh\u2019s most ambitious novel to date, and well worth the read. ...more Publisher's Book Summary: It is the spring of 2002 and a perfect storm has hit Boston. Across the city's archdiocese, trusted priests have been accused of the worst possible betrayal of the souls in their care. In Faith, Jennifer Haigh explores the fallout for one devout family, the McGanns. Estranged for years from her difficult and demanding relatives, Sheila McGann has remained close to her older brother Art, the popular, dynamic pastor of a large suburban parish. When Art finds himself at the Publisher's Book Summary: It is the spring of 2002 and a perfect storm has hit Boston. Across the city's archdiocese, trusted priests have been accused of the worst possible betrayal of the souls in their care. In Faith, Jennifer Haigh explores the fallout for one devout family, the McGanns. Estranged for years from her difficult and demanding relatives, Sheila McGann has remained close to her older brother Art, the popular, dynamic pastor of a large suburban parish. When Art finds himself at the center of the maelstrom, Sheila returns to Boston, ready to fight for him and his reputation. What she discovers is more complicated than she imagined. Her strict, lace-curtain-Irish mother is living in a state of angry denial. Sheila's younger brother Mike, to her horror, has already convicted his brother in his heart. But most disturbing of all is Art himself, who persistently dodges Sheila's questions and refuses to defend himself. As the scandal forces long-buried secrets to surface, Faith explores the corrosive consequences of one family's history of silence\u2014and the resilience its members ultimately find in forgiveness. Throughout, Haigh demonstrates how the truth can shatter our deepest beliefs\u2014and restore them. A gripping, suspenseful tale of one woman's quest for the truth, Faith is a haunting meditation on loyalty and family, doubt and belief. Elegantly crafted, sharply observed, this is Jennifer Haigh's most ambitious novel to date. My review: I was interested in reading Faith as soon as I read the book's summary. I grew up in a religious Catholic home, attending mass Sundays and every holy day. During Lent my family fasted, didn\u2019t eat meat on Fridays and each went without something we loved, such as chocolate in all forms. My mother even went to Church every morning for the 40 days of Lent. I attended 12 years of parochial school and a 4-year Jesuit college. I knew many priests, especially in college. Some were wonderful, some were \u201ceh\u201d, but they were all fascinating and a bit of a mystery. When allegations of molestation against priests began surfacing it was shocking and horrifying. I was intrigued when I discovered that is the focus of Faith and wondered how Jennifer Haigh approached the subject in her book, narrated by Sheila McGann. She is the sister of Father Art Breen, the priest against whom the awful accusation of molestation is made. Sheila tells her story a couple of years after her brother is accused and his life ruined. She\u2019s anxious to figure out what happened, to find answers to who and what failed Art and why he did what he did. Sheila is, essentially, conducting an investigation, a very detailed one, of Art\u2019s life In so doing, she tells us about several members of her family including Art, and uncovers some surprising secrets. Sheila, a high school teacher, lives in Pennsylvania. She moved out of Massachusetts to get away from her complex, dysfunctional Irish family. Sheila tells us she stopped going to church when she moved away. She and Art became close at that time, speaking frequently. When Art is accused, although, he doesn\u2019t get in touch and Sheila is forced to seek him out. While in Massachusetts, she also learns her brother Mike\u2019s opinion about Art and the allegations. Despite distancing herself, Sheila is soon right back into the family dynamic. The difference is this time it\u2019s by choice and in scrutinizing relationships and behavior and asking questions she uncovers truths she never could have guessed at but that help her to better understand her family. Sheila shares information she learned from Art as well as what she learns through her research into the church and its priests. Sheila provides us with a lot of information about the life of priests-in-training and beyond, after they are assigned to a parish, not to mention painting a detailed account of her brother\u2019s life. She also provides us with the answers given by some of the priests and others Sheila speaks with who knew Father Breen. Haigh has written Sheila in such a way that it often feels like she\u2019s conversing directly with us as she informs us of what\u2019s she\u2019s learned. Without giving anything away, it\u2019s important to know that Sheila has no illusions about who she is and what she\u2019s done. She\u2019s a strong character and the more I got to know her the more refreshing I found her, especially from my perspective as a Catholic woman. Sometimes she seems distant as she relates a particularly troubling incident. At other times she\u2019s intimately personal. This behavior, along with the depth Haigh gives her, makes Sheila alternately strong and frail: in other words, very human and very real. This is why we believe her, even if we do not out right identify with her. It\u2019s understandable if we don\u2019t as one reader my not share a similar background, while another, like myself, does. But seeing her as believable can\u2018t be denied. The author has a real flair for this kind of fleshing out and creation of complex characters. Haigh excels at developing many of the characters into three-dimensional flawed human beings who we recognize from our own lives as well as understand and relate to on some level. She understands human behavior. I was surprised to discover I even sympathized with and related to the priest, Father Breen, at times. It was also shocking to read the cruel , selfish and thoughtless behavior the characters inflict on each other and then realize it rings true. It\u2019s hard to go into more detail about these characters without giving too much of this poignant and amazing story away. Faith is a reading experience you don't want to miss. Haigh weaves together a myriad of themes including love, family, and deceit in a stunning, intense and complex narrative that is fraught with misunderstandings, revelations, justices and injustices. Haigh has written an engrossing and absorbing story that you'll have difficulty putting down. Faith is a book you won't soon forget once you've finished it. ...more \"...sooner or later you have to decide what you believe... faith is a decision. In its most basic form, it is a choice\" (160) I absolutely loved Faith by Jennifer Haigh. Faith is narrated by Sheila, a young woman living in Philadelphia who grew up in Boston with her Irish Catholic family. The BIC culture gives a flavor to the entire book - Haigh is right on with her language, cultural references, and jokes about the local towns (such as the W in Wellesley, West Newton, Weston standing for Wealth) \"...sooner or later you have to decide what you believe... faith is a decision. In its most basic form, it is a choice\" (160) I absolutely loved Faith by Jennifer Haigh. Faith is narrated by Sheila, a young woman living in Philadelphia who grew up in Boston with her Irish Catholic family. The BIC culture gives a flavor to the entire book - Haigh is right on with her language, cultural references, and jokes about the local towns (such as the W in Wellesley, West Newton, Weston standing for Wealth). Sheila is telling the story of her brother Art, who is a priest accused of molesting a child in his parish. I found Haigh's writing style unique and rich - I laughed out loud and was moved to tears more than once in the course of reading this novel. I fell in love with the characters, and felt surprisingly non-judgmental of Art despite the fact that he was being accused of molesting a child. I think is because of Sheila's own unbiased narration - she decides that she is going to love him whether or not he is guilty because he is her brother. Her perspective is the polar opposite of her brother Mike, who as a father of young children, is immediately livid with Art and vows to end their relationship. Mike is a successful realtor who lives with his uber-high-functioning lawyer wife, Abby. The relationships between the siblings and the parents is described so well: their closeness despite physical distance and geographic location, their care for one another despite the insanity they grew up with, their dependence on the Church, their love and anger - I felt like I know these people and I miss them now that the book has ended. Ted McGann, Sheila's father and Art's stepfather is an alcoholic suffering from dementia. I cherished the stories about him and his codependent wife. Haigh describes active alcoholism to a T. For example, the following 2 quotes: On Ma begging for Ted to get sober: \"Over the years she said countless novenas and rosaries, her Hail Marys flooding the heavens like so much junk mail. She saved her sweet talk for the Virgin. With Dad she swapped insults and epithets\" (153) \"...Kevin can't be trusted with a hundred bucks, never mind a hundred thousand. That when it comes to money he is a human vacuum, any spare change instantly disappearing into his veins or up his nose\" (197) We get a personal look at the lives of the accuser, Kath Conlon and the victim, her 8-year-old son Aidan. Kath's mother, Fran, works at Art's church and her and Art were very close. Art meets Kath and Aidan through Fran. Kath is a struggling single mom who is 14 months sober in AA, occasionally living with her dirt-bag-on-again-off-again boyfriend Kevin Vick. Sheila's tactic is to lay out pieces of the story, bits of facts, and then eventually weave them all together as the book goes on. I had no idea whether or not Art was guilty, which is usually something that would bother me: I would be wondering when on earth we would find out what happened. I was so caught up in the story and the characters that I didn't mind waiting until the end to learn the truth. The narrator kept dropping hints about Art's date book, or about Caitlin Burke's father, who wants to help Art out. None of these pieces come together till the end, but each piece was only hinted at, not enough to annoy me and totally worth waiting for. Additional favorite quotes: Kath on smoking: \"I quit when I was pregnant. I never should have started again.\" Art: \"Why did you?\" Kath: \"Life is hard enough, you know?\" Art: \"Smoking makes it easier?\" Kath: \"Quitting makes it harder.\" \"His wife never wore nail polish. It looks cheap, she said, and Mike had to agree. When he saw a woman with long red nails, he instantly imagined her hand on his dick\" (169) ...more I would give this book four stars for being a gut-wrenching but ultimately redemptive story of a family's tortured past, and about one star for its failure to provide any sort of nuanced commentary on the sexual abuse scandal in the American Catholic church. The story dwells on a Catholic priest, accused of molesting a little boy within months of the Diocese of Boston's sexual abuse scandal breaking into the press. The story is told by his younger sister, and a great deal of the suspense in the I would give this book four stars for being a gut-wrenching but ultimately redemptive story of a family's tortured past, and about one star for its failure to provide any sort of nuanced commentary on the sexual abuse scandal in the American Catholic church. The story dwells on a Catholic priest, accused of molesting a little boy within months of the Diocese of Boston's sexual abuse scandal breaking into the press. The story is told by his younger sister, and a great deal of the suspense in the novel comes from the \"did he or didn't he\" narration. But the emotional force of the story centers squarely on the accused priest's life, and that of his family, and so is also a tale about upward mobility for the working-class Boston Irish. Haigh draws the priest's brother, a police-man turned successful real estate broker, with an especially sharp perception of the emotional contours of becoming middle class. The sister-narrator herself is less well-fleshed out, often functioning as an almost omniscient narrator, which itself caused a bit of grinding in the tectonic plates of the narrative: there were times when I was distracted from the plot because I was wondering \"How could you know this? When did you find this out?\" Haigh is splendid at outlining the place that the Catholic church - as a provider of education, social prestige, Bingo, and salvation -- takes in the life of this family, so that you do fully feel and believe the impact that the accusation has on all of them: the devout, the second-generation Easter Catholics, and the entirely fallen away. The novel is especially savvy about juxtaposing Catholic romanticism about the church with the dullness, the disappointment, and the downright evil that it also offers. When her novel culminates in a moment of true sacrifice, it is a breathtaking surprise because so little of her narrative has offered us reason to expect that someone associated with the church would choose to do the right thing; nonetheless, the culmination rings true to the novel's basic tone. I confess that this is probably the only novel I've ever cried over in my adult life. But -- but. It isn't a novel which challenges the fundamental way that the sex abuse scandal has been narrated. The bad guys are still the bad guys at the end of the novel, and we don't actually have a clearer sense of why they're bad than we did when we started. By the end of the novel we are relieved to find out that we haven't been put in the uncomfortable position of having sympathized with or identified with any child molesters. In fact, the novel is a bit cheap in the way it substitutes the betrayal we think might have happened with another betrayal that the novel implies is lesser in some ways. And thinking about that makes me a bit ashamed that the novel made me cry along with it. ...more Narrator Sheila McGann tells the story of her Irish-Catholic family against the backdrop of the priest-sex-abuse scandal that rocked the Boston Archdiocese. Sheila\u2019s older half-brother, Art, is a priest accused of molesting a child. Her younger brother, like much of the community, is horrified and repulsed by the allegations and immediately assumes Father Art\u2019s guilt. Their mother is paralyzed by fear and dread \u2013 loving her son, not believing the accusations, unable to face her faith community a Narrator Sheila McGann tells the story of her Irish-Catholic family against the backdrop of the priest-sex-abuse scandal that rocked the Boston Archdiocese. Sheila\u2019s older half-brother, Art, is a priest accused of molesting a child. Her younger brother, like much of the community, is horrified and repulsed by the allegations and immediately assumes Father Art\u2019s guilt. Their mother is paralyzed by fear and dread \u2013 loving her son, not believing the accusations, unable to face her faith community and left adrift with her anxiety. Sheila is unbelieving but puzzled and, as she tries to determine where the truth lies finds herself conflicted. I love the way that Haigh develops these characters and the central issues of the book. It is a book that is about family more than it is about any particular religion. Sheila is a wonderful narrator \u2013 trying to be accurate but not able to completely divorce her feelings and biases. She explores her family history \u2013 the many issues never discussed, the silences that say more about the family than any words spoken. She gives the reader much to think about: On her family: \u201cEvery one of us limps from old wounds. \u2026 We poke each other\u2019s tender places with a stick.\u201d On love: \u201cWe love those who fit the peculiar voids within us, our hollow wounds. We love to fill the spaces of old loves left behind.\u201d Sheila\u2019s narrative carefully reveals the plot, including some twists that caught this reader off guard; the story is revealed much as it would be in real life \u2026 a little here, a little there, until we are able to weave all the threads into a final story that may still leave some questions left unanswered, but generally satisfies our need to know what happened. This is the kind of literary fiction I love; it made me think of the many issues raised, propelled me forward to reach the end, and made me want to start over as soon as I had finished. ...more \"It is the spring of 2002 and a perfect storm has hit Boston. Across the city's archdiocese, trusted priests have been accused of the worst possible betrayal of the souls in their care. In Faith, Jennifer Haigh explores the fallout for one devout family, the McGanns. Estranged for years from her difficult and demanding relatives, Sheila McGann has remained close to her older brother Art, the popular, dynamic pastor of a large suburban parish. When Art finds himself at the center of the maelstrom, \"It is the spring of 2002 and a perfect storm has hit Boston. Across the city's archdiocese, trusted priests have been accused of the worst possible betrayal of the souls in their care. In Faith, Jennifer Haigh explores the fallout for one devout family, the McGanns. Estranged for years from her difficult and demanding relatives, Sheila McGann has remained close to her older brother Art, the popular, dynamic pastor of a large suburban parish. When Art finds himself at the center of the maelstrom, Sheila returns to Boston, ready to fight for him and his reputation. What she discovers is more complicated than she imagined. Her strict, lace-curtain-Irish mother is living in a state of angry denial. Sheila's younger brother Mike, to her horror, has already convicted his brother in his heart. But most disturbing of all is Art himself, who persistently dodges Sheila's questions and refuses to defend himself. As the scandal forces long-buried secrets to surface, Faith explores the corrosive consequences of one family's history of silence\u2014and the resilience its members ultimately find in forgiveness. Throughout, Haigh demonstrates how the truth can shatter our deepest beliefs\u2014and restore them. A gripping, suspenseful tale of one woman's quest for the truth, Faith is a haunting meditation on loyalty and family, doubt and belief. Elegantly crafted, sharply observed, this is Jennifer Haigh's most ambitious novel to date.\" *****Rate this 5/5. I loved this book, the best by Jennifer Haigh yet. ...more The book has a strong premise....the \"back story\" of a priest and how an alleged sexual abuse scandal fractures a family and makes them take sides. I liked the ending, but the book gets off to a plodding start. It took over half the book for the author to develop the characters (and I still feel like I barely knew the narrator of the story despite the fact that she's supposedly a central part of the story). And the characters I did manage to get to know simply aren't very likable. It was hard to The book has a strong premise....the \"back story\" of a priest and how an alleged sexual abuse scandal fractures a family and makes them take sides. I liked the ending, but the book gets off to a plodding start. It took over half the book for the author to develop the characters (and I still feel like I barely knew the narrator of the story despite the fact that she's supposedly a central part of the story). And the characters I did manage to get to know simply aren't very likable. It was hard to relate to the angst they experienced because I didn't particularly care for them as people. The author pads much of her book with descriptions or back story that do little to move the plot along. I kept getting the feeling that the author - when writing it - was wildly grasping at filler to make the story come out to book length. There is certainly plenty of description about Catholicism (which gave me more than a few \"sheesh, here we go again\" moments). But I guess that's to be expected considering the subject matter. Truthfully, I tried unsuccessfully to find a good \"spoiler\" online so I wouldn't have to keep wading through the seemingly endless verbiage in the middle of the book. I ended up just making myself finish it. The ending was decent but I'm not sure it was worth struggling through the book to get there. ...more", "Title": "Faith"},
