{"Comments": "4 stars! <+++>Fair Game</+++> is the third book in the Alpha & Omega series which features Anna and Charles. I love this series! Maybe not quite as much as the Mercy Thompson series, but close. It\u2019s for sure one of the best UF series I\u2019ve read. This third book drew me in from the start. It seemed to be more fast-paced than the others and the story really kept my interest all the way through. Charles is having a rough go of things. Being \u2018the enforcer\u2019 is getting more difficult for him, especially with 4 stars! <+++>Fair Game</+++> is the third book in the Alpha & Omega series which features Anna and Charles. I love this series! Maybe not quite as much as the Mercy Thompson series, but close. It\u2019s for sure one of the best UF series I\u2019ve read. This third book drew me in from the start. It seemed to be more fast-paced than the others and the story really kept my interest all the way through. Charles is having a rough go of things. Being \u2018the enforcer\u2019 is getting more difficult for him, especially with the current werewolf situation. Anna is concerned and isn\u2019t shy about letting her concerns be known to the Marrok.<---F> I love this about her</---F>. She is strong when she needs to be and always stands up for and stands by her mate. To get away for a bit, Anna and Charles go on a trip to Boston to help the FBI uncover a serial killer case that may include werewolves\u2026 it turns out to be a bit more than they bargained for. I listened to the audio version of this book and the narrator (<---B>Holter Graham</---B>) did an amazing job voicing both Charles and Anna. Sometimes narrators don\u2019t do the best job voicing the opposite sex but this narration is spot on. I would highly recommend doing this one via audio if you like audio books. You won\u2019t be disappointed. Suspense, romance and fantasy- Fair Game is the best in the series IMO so far! If you like UF/PNR, this is a series and author I would recommend! ...more I love this urban fantasy world <---A>Patricia Briggs</---A> has created. She has expanded it over two series,<---M> her Mercy Thompson series and this one</---M>, Alpha & Omega. In this series we explore the complex relationship of Charles and Anna. Charles is the only known born werewolf, and son of the Marrock (Alpha of ALL werewolves of North America, Bran). Anna is an Omega, a wolf that can calm the fiercest of tempers and is also strong enough to look the Marrock in the eye. Of course, her human appearance make I love this urban fantasy world Patricia Briggs has created. She has expanded it over two series, her Mercy Thompson series and this one, Alpha & Omega. In this series we explore the complex relationship of Charles and Anna. Charles is the only known born werewolf, and son of the Marrock (Alpha of ALL werewolves of North America, Bran). Anna is an Omega, a wolf that can calm the fiercest of tempers and is also strong enough to look the Marrock in the eye. Of course, her human appearance makes her look like a fragile woman, but don\u2019t be fooled. In Fair Game, book three, Patricia Briggs continues to explore the dynamics between this very alpha, serious and quiet wolf Charles and his stubborn wife. Charles is the Marrok\u2019s punisher for lack of a better word. Recently, werewolves outted themselves to the public and it is all about keeping a positive spin with the public. Patricia Briggs writes her werewolves to be very carnal in nature. While they can assimilate with the general public, they have a very violent edge and it doesn\u2019t take much for them to eat someone. Trying to keep the peace, Bran sends Charles out to kill those wolves who have stepped over their boundaries. Which means Charles is killing many and it is starting to weigh him down. I love how Briggs presents it to the readers as well. You flip-flop by wondering if Bran is using his son to do all his dirty work, or if he really has no one else to send out. Bran can\u2019t send out other alphas, fearing they couldn\u2019t handle it and the older wolves already carry around too much and they would go insane. Charles has the ghosts of his previous kills lurking around him. They talk to him, scare him, and he is terrified if he acknowledges them too much, they will take control of him an eventually harm his wife. So he keeps this pain and torment hidden from her. Anna knows something is wrong with Charles and after she begs Bran to help, and he stubbornly says no, she is at a loss for what to do. Brother Wolf, also has a big role in this book. Brother wolf is Charles\u2019s wolf, who has his own personality. There are kind of two people living inside of Charles, Charles and Brother Wolf. They both love Anna, but sometimes they disagree with each other. It is fascinating how Briggs writes it. Bran does come up with a somewhat temporary solution for him. There have been a string of murders in the Boston area involving werewolves. The FBI are desperate to catch this serial killer, and have given into the fact they might need a werewolf to give them some insight. With <---C>Adam Hauptman</---C>n home helping Mercy recover (awww!) Bran sends Anna and Charles to Boston. When a powerful Fae\u2019s daughter becomes the next victim, Charles and Anna stick around until they can bring justice. Fair Game gives us many great things. First we get a super creepy string of murders that must be solved. We are introduced to some new characters like Leslie with the FBI and Isaac, alpha of the Boston wolves, both who I really enjoyed meeting. I think the plot in this one regarding the murders is one of the more stronger ones I have read in this series and in Briggs\u2019 Mercy books. Besides that drama, we get lots of conflict between Charles and Anna. Charles is so stoic and quiet, and protective over his mate, that he has this huge internal struggle going on. He can\u2019t let go of the ghosts that he has killed, and it is completely wrecking him. Being stubborn, he refuses to let Anna in on what is going on with him, although she knows something is up. They haven\u2019t touched each other for weeks. Anna slowly works her magic but it is a long and serious struggle for Charles. As I said above, I LOVE how Briggs writes her wolves. They are decent humans, but can be so violent at the snap of your fingers. They are killers first. And I love it. Their political maneuverings are so interesting to me as well. And with Bran in the background pulling the strings, I seriously can\u2019t get enough of this world. So well built. The end sets up something big. BIG. I\u2019m so excited to read the next book to see where this all goes. Definitely a series that I think should be read in order. If I had to think of a complaint, it would be that I want more Bran. I\u2019m a Bran hussy and I have no shame in it. Rating: A- ...more \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 & a Wow! It took me awhile to write this review; the fabulous Ms. Patricia Briggs had wowed me beyond words. Dare I say this is her best work to date? I guess I can\u2019t, since I haven\u2019t read everything she\u2019s written \u2013 yet! But, I\u2019m willing to place that bet. With the third installment of her Alpha and Omega series, Ms. Briggs has proven she is a master of her craft and draws us completely into her paranormal milieu of werewolves, fae, vampires, ghosts, witches, humans, an occasional zomb \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 & a Wow! It took me awhile to write this review; the fabulous Ms. Patricia Briggs had wowed me beyond words. Dare I say this is her best work to date? I guess I can\u2019t, since I haven\u2019t read everything she\u2019s written \u2013 yet! But, I\u2019m willing to place that bet. With the third installment of her Alpha and Omega series, Ms. Briggs has proven she is a master of her craft and draws us completely into her paranormal milieu of werewolves, fae, vampires, ghosts, witches, humans, an occasional zombie, and now serial killers, with subtle skill. How does she do that? Unsurprisingly, right from the start! No splashy opening for her. Nope. It is a subtle seduction, a peep into her world in the opening prologue, where she grabbed me and didn\u2019t let go until the very end. Actually, I\u2019m still enthralled. Her amazing characters \u2013 paranormal or human, virtuous, average, or twisted-sick \u2013 held my attention and continued to maintain my enthusiasm for this series. Charles is burning out and Anna, who is definitely coming into her own as Omega, appeals to her father-in-law, Bran Cornick, to listen to her. Charles needs a break from being his father\u2019s assassin, especially since his duties have dramatically increased after the werewolves went public. Bran refuses, so she appeals to Asil, that wily old werewolf, who knows the way to make the Marrok listen to what he already recognizes. When the FBI calls, asking for help in Boston, Bran realizes he has the perfect reprieve for Charles \u2013 and himself \u2013 because he sends the pesky Anna with him. King\u2019s Chapel, 18th century structure at the corner of Tremont Street and School Street in Boston, Massachusetts. King\u2019s Chapel boasts the oldest graveyard in Boston. As you know, where sociopathic serial killers go the FBI is sure to follow, and this novel becomes, to a large extent, a procedural for a murderous villain, who metes out rape and torture to the human, fae, and werewolf communities, regardless of paranormal ability or gender, so it is not for the faint of heart . Now the question becomes not just why \u2013 but by what means? And how cool is it to bring a 300 pound werewolf to a crime scene? On a leash with a flimsy plastic collar? That\u2019s what the unflappable Anna does with Brother Wolf, and it is a memorable scene just for its audacity. It is neat to see the two of them work this case together (when he isn\u2019t indulging his wife by playing tourist with her). Regardless of the gradual, pulse-pounding escalation to an adrenaline-rush climax, it is at heart a romance between fated mates, Charles and Anna, as they find a way to make him completely hers again and not brokenhearted and tortured by his personal demons. All in all, a GoodRead! By the way, I loved the hardcover copy. Is it red? Is it bronze? Depends on how the light catches it. Cool. They have finally gotten these last two covers right, this one perfected down to sweet Anna\u2019s freckles. Special Notes: The prequel, Alpha & Omega: A Companion Novella to Cry Wolf , is a must read before starting this series. It makes everything that comes afterwards fall into place. If you are also reading the Mercedes Thompson series, then this one should be read after River Marked to avoid spoilers. Update: March 28, 2012 - Added Mercy Thompson and Alpha & Omega Timeline from www.hurog.com (Thanks, Regina!!) Hyperlink to site for bigger view. Alpha & Omega series: ...more 10 stars AWESOME, INCREDIBLE BOOK! This is, by far, the best in the series for me. I can't even begin to explain how much I enjoyed it. It takes place after River Marked . Anna and Charles have been together for a year or so, and we see Charles's job as an enforcer is getting to him. He has killed too many, too often and is closing himself off, even from his mate. Bran decides it might help if he sends Charles to Boston, to investigate a series of deaths stretching back 30 years. Giving him a chanc 10 stars AWESOME, INCREDIBLE BOOK! This is, by far, the best in the series for me. I can't even begin to explain how much I enjoyed it. It takes place after River Marked . Anna and Charles have been together for a year or so, and we see Charles's job as an enforcer is getting to him. He has killed too many, too often and is closing himself off, even from his mate. Bran decides it might help if he sends Charles to Boston, to investigate a series of deaths stretching back 30 years. Giving him a chance to be a hero-not just a villain. Most of the book deals with the investigation. It is very well done. It's interesting, catching and I really didn't figure it out entirely until it was intended. We follow Anna and Charles around Boston, watching them deal with FBI and such(since werewolves are out to the public), investigating the deaths of weres, the fae and humans... As to the two of them... \"People as old and powerful as he should never be given someone to love. For Anna he would destroy the world.\" Yes, he would, but the ghosts of people he's killed haunt him, leaving him unable to expose himself to his mate, to connect to her. She tries to break through, but it's not easy. This book has less falling in love/relationship stuff than the previous since they've been together for a while. It's more Charles's struggle and the way the two of them find each other again. I loved seeing them together. And Bran...Oh, Bran, I LOVE YOU. I so want you to get a HEA, you're awesome. And very present here... Cute scene: \"Da said as he served Anna pancakes. His da liked to make pancakes for breakfast, but the deer-shaped ones were a new thing. Charles tried not to analyze his father when he could avoid it. He\u2019d woken up after flying from Boston to Montana to find his da cooking breakfast for them: sausage and pancakes shaped like deer. It wasn\u2019t just any deer, either\u2014they looked like Bambi from the Disney cartoon. Charles didn\u2019t want to know how his father had managed that. Charles preferred his deer to taste like meat and his pancakes to look like pancakes. Brother Wolf thought he was too picky. Brother Wolf was probably right. The Ending-SPOILERS about the world development \"Then he raised the dripping sword up toward the sky and announced harshly, \u201cWe, the fae, declare ourselves free of the laws of the United States of America. We do not recognize them. They have no authority over us. From this moment forward we are our own sovereign nation, claiming as our own those lands ceded to us. We will treat with you, as one hostile nation treats with another, until such time as it seems us good to do elsewise. I, Alistair Beauclaire, once and again Gwyn ap Lugh, Prince of the Gray Lords, do so determine. All will abide my wishes.\u201d WHAT THE HECK? What kind of way is that to finish a book? And the next one is coming in 2013? Not Fair! I'm still under the influence of this. How will it change everything? On which side will the werewolves be? This is shaping to be a war...Come On!!!! Mrs Briggs, write faster. Or write longer books! ...more The prologue of this book hooked me right into the mystical and magical world that Patricia Briggs has created in her Alpha and Omega Series, where we meet a new character, FBI agent and a human named Leslie Fisher, who plays a huge role in this story. I fell in love with her immediately\u2026. \u201cOnce upon a time, there was a little girl named Leslie.\u201d A big part of why I love this series is Charles & Anna. They have a strong bond and complement each other. But Charles is struggling with his demo The prologue of this book hooked me right into the mystical and magical world that Patricia Briggs has created in her Alpha and Omega Series, where we meet a new character, FBI agent and a human named Leslie Fisher, who plays a huge role in this story. I fell in love with her immediately\u2026. \u201cOnce upon a time, there was a little girl named Leslie.\u201d A big part of why I love this series is Charles & Anna. They have a strong bond and complement each other. But Charles is struggling with his demons and past and instead of facing them and working through them with Anna, he keeps his feelings secret from her because he thinks he will lose her if he tells her, which causes him distancing himself from her\u2026he\u2019s afraid of hurting her and thinks he\u2019s not good enough for some so good and kind I felt for Charles and all his pain and unsure and uncertain about his past and whilst I wanted to scream at him a few times....communicate please!!!! But Anna won\u2019t give up on Charles. She will do everything to help him deal with his ghosts. She asks Bran, Charles\u2019s father for help. To give Charles a break from his duties as his enforcer, he sends him and Anna to Boston to assist the FBI in finding a serial killer. There a few POV\u2019s which give us an insight into the lives of the different characters \u2013 how each character perceives their world and the people they meet. It\u2019s interesting how we see ourselves and how others see us and vice versa. I really liked that aspect in the story. Although there\u2019s not a lot of Charles and Anna romance due to the way Charles is dealing with his problems, there are still some really lovely scenes between them\u2026 I am really excited about this series and can\u2019t wait for the next book. My favorite quote: ...more 1st read: July 2012 OMFG! I iz speechless here! That Gray Lord Prince was awesome! I so didn't expect that! The ending was EXPLOSIVE! Exactly what the Fae did to the prejudiced humans, if you ask me This was a great installment by Patricia Briggs. I loved(never was good a literary stuff so I use bluet-points:D): -Anna: her growth from the scared wolf from the prequel to this book is a lovely thing to watch. The way her bond with Charles and her confidence in his love for her was a very important p 1st read: July 2012 OMFG! I iz speechless here! That Gray Lord Prince was awesome! I so didn't expect that! The ending was EXPLOSIVE! Exactly what the Fae did to the prejudiced humans, if you ask me This was a great installment by Patricia Briggs. I loved(never was good a literary stuff so I use bluet-points:D): -Anna: her growth from the scared wolf from the prequel to this book is a lovely thing to watch. The way her bond with Charles and her confidence in his love for her was a very important part in this book. -Charles: the different men he is with Anna makes all these books so good(since we know what he is for his father) -Bran: I liked him from his first appearance in Mercy's series. He is very stubborn and smart and the way he can argue with himself is always funny. -the story: the tension and all those clues dropped from beginning to the end engaged the reader(aka me) and made me more involved with the story -all those other secondary characters, most importantly the werewolf alpha from Boston Bonus pic: I wonder sometimes if 1/2 of the world population would survive if this happened(yes, feeling bitchy and I don't care) 2nd read: January 2013 That last chapter... still as good as the first time! 3rd read: August 2014 Bran... Bamby pancakes? Seriously?! =)))))))))) 4th read: June 2016 I still think good riddance on the idiot Tripper agent... Also: I didn't want to finish this that faaaaast ...more February 2017 Re-read I was thinking about this book recently, and realized that I never put in the trigger warnings that I should have: (view spoiler) [1. Rape and abuse - the victims in this book are repeatedly sodomized and while there is nothing graphic about it, there is discussion of it happening. There are also some pretty disturbing moments with the bodies left by the killers - in that the bodies were definitely tortured and disfigured while alive. 2. The villains in the book are serious rac February 2017 Re-read I was thinking about this book recently, and realized that I never put in the trigger warnings that I should have: (view spoiler) [1. Rape and abuse - the victims in this book are repeatedly sodomized and while there is nothing graphic about it, there is discussion of it happening. There are also some pretty disturbing moments with the bodies left by the killers - in that the bodies were definitely tortured and disfigured while alive. 2. The villains in the book are serious racist assholes. SERIOUS RACIST. As such there is racist language in the books. It's minor, not gratuitous, and not over-used, but it is disturbing - just as it's meant to be. (hide spoiler) ] February 2016 Re-read: Buddy read with Sarah This book is absolutely amazing. I adore Anna and Charles. SO much. They're one of my all-time favorite couples. Though the implications of the world-changing event at the end of this book don't really make as big of a splash as I was originally anticipating in the coming books, the effects are subtle - like most everything in a PB book - and consequences are drawn out and not always immediately known. Even knowing that we don't see immediate results doesn't detract from the awesome power of that moment at the end of this book. It's an amazing moment, and I really, really hope that we see more of a certain character again (I'm really trying to avoid spoilers here). March 2013 Re-read: I just read this book again, and love it as much. In fact as soon as I finished I wanted to start it again. Original Review: People as old and powerful as he should never be given someone to love. For Anna he would destroy the world. This has easily become one of my favorite series, period. The relationship that Patricia Briggs builds, between all the characters, but especially between Charles and Anna, is stunning. Fair Game starts right on the heels of the end of River Marked , so the time-lines are finally matching up. The werewolves have come out the public, and with that the rules for werewolves have become much more strict. With more and more wolves needing to be pulled into line, Charles is busier than ever, and it's starting to wear on him. Anna's worried about him, and takes it to Bran - who doesn't know what to do. After Adam comes up with a possible solution, Anna and Charles are headed to Boston to help the FBI. As I said above, Charles and Anna's relationship is the true draw of this series for me. The fact that their relationship requires work on both their parts makes it very real. It's been a few years since Charles and Anna met, in Chicago and had an instant connection. Ever since then they've had to work at their relationship and with each other. Sometimes fighting for their relationship, others fighting against the protective instincts of their mate. The love, trust, and respect that underlies all of this is what draws me in and makes me invested in this couple. Charles spends a good amount of time trying to protect Anna from the things that are affecting him in Fair Game . And she rails against that, knowing that she can help if only he'll let her. It's an interesting dynamic to watch - Charles, the dominant, can't really help the need to protect. Anna, an Omega who loves her mate above all, can not stop the driving need to help. They butt heads a few times; there are consequences for their actions - something that I've always loved in this world - and in the end they come out stronger. I never doubt that they'll make it work, because they truthfully never doubt they will. The mystery plot that drives the book is interesting, and different. We're out in the world, seeing the wolves interact with federal agencies, trying to stop a serial killer for them - instead of the secretive world of the supernatural community. After seeing how many people had been attacked by this killer, so many of them children, I was anxious to see Charles and Anna bring him to justice. I was able to figure out who the mystery bad-guy was before the end, but it didn't detract from the story at all. The major event at the end though, Blew.My.Mind. I did not see it coming, and can not wait to see the wider implications throughout the world. Immediately after finishing the book I had to go back and re-read this part again because I was sure I'd mis-read it originally. Surely something will turn up in Frost Burned , the next Mercy Thompson book - due out March 2013. This book kept me on the edge of my seat, reading late into the night to finish it, and satisfied on all levels. Patricia Briggs keeps getting better and better, and I can't wait to see what she comes out with next. ...more I freaking loved this book! I loved the mystery, I loved Charles and Anna! I loved the glimpses of Adam and the Mercy Thompson world. Bran was amazing and Briggs gave us a good amount of Bran. Patricia Briggs has that special something that makes me feel so happy and contented to slip into her world and read any one of her books. The characters may be scary and the subject matter disturbing, but Briggs writes them in such a rich way that I wish I was there. The supernaturals in Briggs\u2019 world are I freaking loved this book! I loved the mystery, I loved Charles and Anna! I loved the glimpses of Adam and the Mercy Thompson world. Bran was amazing and Briggs gave us a good amount of Bran. Patricia Briggs has that special something that makes me feel so happy and contented to slip into her world and read any one of her books. The characters may be scary and the subject matter disturbing, but Briggs writes them in such a rich way that I wish I was there. The supernaturals in Briggs\u2019 world are scary, not just spooky but frightening. They are strong, not entirely in control of their strength and quite a few of her supernaturals operate around a completely different moral compass than humans do. I love this about her books. The vampires are scary, the Fae are an unknown and usually powerful and scream-worthy and the werewolves? They are strong, beautiful, loyal but definitely not human. The Fae are not my favorite characters in Briggs\u2019 books. Some of her past books have dwelt to heavily with Fae characters, in my opinion; Fair Game strikes the perfect balance. There is Fae intrigue but it takes place in the human world and involves human beings, werewolves and sociopaths. The focus of the story never strays from the werewolves and Anna and Charles are front in center. Fair Game picks up a few years after Hunting Ground and starts right after River Marked. There are references to the resolution of River Marked, readers who have not yet read River Marked and plan to do so, be warned there are spoilers to the ending of River Marked in Fair Game. Based on the timing, Charles and Anna have been together a few years and Anna has been in Montana for awhile. Like any couple, there are issues and Charles and Anna are no exception. Unfortunately, their problems have more to do with Bran and the outside world. Okay, so what about Charles and Anna? I have a strong preference for urban fantasy and fantasy with creative world building, intricate worlds and rich characters but if you throw in a romance, I will enjoy it. Well, Briggs does more than just throw in a romance, the story of Charles and Anna is not the driving force of these books \u2013 the characters, the world and the storyline are \u2013 -but Charles and Anna provide the structure and vehicle for telling the story. There would be no story without their relationship. Fans of Charles and Anna will not be disappointed, readers are treated with quite a few very sweet scenes and a few issues the couple has to work through. Maybe I say that too lightly \u2013 the issues facing the couple are dark, twisted and well, Briggs came up with a truly unique storyline of what was stressing Charles and Anna. Readers will not be left on a cliff wondering if Charles and Anna can resolve their problems though, Briggs wraps up these issues by the end of the novel. The ending was fantastic. I loved it. Many writers in this genre put out installment after installment of books that do not push the story arc further or change the game at all. Fair Game is not like that nor is Briggs a writer like that. What Briggs does so well is to continue to develop her world, she doesn\u2019t ever rest on what she has already written \u2013 -she pushes her world building and her characters. Readers learn more about the Fae and their crazy world, more about the werewolves \u2014 and the characters and the worlds come to a very dramatic ending that leaves off in a way that makes me beyond excited for the next book! I have two complaints. First, I wish it was longer. Fair Game is a decent length novel, but I wanted more. Briggs definitely did not skimp on storyline or character development, I just am greedy and want more. Second, I fear it will be another 2 years or more until we get the next installment. Mercy Thompson #7 is due out Spring 2013, I guess I will have to be content with re-reading both Mercy and Alpha and hoping for some short stories from Briggs along the way. Full review at www.badassbookreviews.com and interview with Patricia Briggs at www.badassbookreviews.com on March 6, 2012! ...more 5 stars goes without saying of course! I have a question and since I'm too bored to look it up I'll wait until some awesome GRs friend answers me... Is this series going to have another book? I thought it was a trilogy but I have to admit the end felt like it left things unresolved. So... This book begins about a year after Bran made the werewolves public. Since humans now know about shifters Bran has applied stricter rules and Charles is the one who plays the executioner, a job that has began to t 5 stars goes without saying of course! I have a question and since I'm too bored to look it up I'll wait until some awesome GRs friend answers me... Is this series going to have another book? I thought it was a trilogy but I have to admit the end felt like it left things unresolved. So... This book begins about a year after Bran made the werewolves public. Since humans now know about shifters Bran has applied stricter rules and Charles is the one who plays the executioner, a job that has began to take its toll from our beloved hero because he doesn't believe everyone who died deserved it. In an attempt to help him Bran sends Anna and Charles to help the FBI solve a serial killer case where the killer seems to have changed his prey to shifters. In this book Anna's and Charles' relationship goes through some problems. It's nice to see how they develop as characters. Anna has come a long way from the frightened girl she was when she first met Charles and Charles has come a long way from the closed off person he was before Anna. Btw, in most shifter books the heroes go at it like rabbits. It's nice for a change to have a couple who can interact with each other without having to fight back \"uncontrolable\" lust. Not they didn't have one or two sexy moments but they didn't jump one another at every corner. In this book we have fairies, cops and murderers. I kind of liked the fact that it had more of a mystery feeling than the others. The story was fast paced and well-written as usual and the end just blew my head off. (view spoiler) [This a**hole sooo got what he had coming. The sad thing is that stuff like that happen in real life too. Maybe there aren't shifters-vamps-fairies but humans can become worse monsters than any of the fictional ones(and I'm not just talking about the murderer but for the people who let him get away with it too)! (hide spoiler) ] ***************First Re-Read*************** BR with Aly !!! [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Oh Anna and Charles, I love you so much. From the very first Alpha and Omega novella, Patricia Briggs has given this hero and heroine such depth of character, that I feel like I know them. They are flawed, brave, loyal, insecure, and violent. But above and beyond all that, they always love one other. This book may be my favorite yet in the series. I was surprised at the onset to see how much time had passed since the events of Hunting Ground . While it's not spelled out precisely, it's been a few Oh Anna and Charles, I love you so much. From the very first Alpha and Omega novella, Patricia Briggs has given this hero and heroine such depth of character, that I feel like I know them. They are flawed, brave, loyal, insecure, and violent. But above and beyond all that, they always love one other. This book may be my favorite yet in the series. I was surprised at the onset to see how much time had passed since the events of Hunting Ground . While it's not spelled out precisely, it's been a few years. (Events from River Marked are referenced and we know the first two books take place roughly around the same time as Moon Called .) But what's interesting is that Charles and Anna have changed very little with the passage of time. I would have expected that with a love like theirs, a few years would find these two in the happiest place they've ever been. But things are harder than ever. Charles has always been his father's sword of justice. But now that the werewolves are \"out\" to human society, it's vital to keep a lid on werewolf violence. So Bran's sending Charles out to kill their misbehaving brethren in record numbers. It's wearing on Charles; breaking his spirit; and driving him to cut himself off from Anna. He's haunted by the ghosts of his prey. To give him a reprieve, Bran sends Charles and Anna to Boston to help human investigators solve a serial killer case. The killer has been torturing and murdering victims for decades. And in recent years, he's moved onto Fae and werewolf targets. Details of the killer's depravity were disturbing at times, but it was really a captivating case. The mystery introduces us to new characters, like Leslie, a tough human FBI agent; Isaac, the Alpha of the Boston pack; and Beauclaire, a fascinating Fae whose daughter was among the abducted. I won't spoil all the amazing twists and turns, but I can say that it was unpredictable and kept me on the edge of my seat. The world-building is flawless and merges seamlessly with the Mercy Thompson series. I love the effortless way I can sink back into these books. But most of all, I love unfailing way that Charles and Anna love each other. It baffles me that either one can still manage to question their worth to the other, when it's so obvious how deep their love runs. But it's gratifying to see them prove that love over and over again. I give the book extra points for giving me a little peek inside Bran's head. And double bonus points for a spectacular ending, guaranteed to bring repercussions into future books in this series and the Mercy Thompson one. I can't wait to see what happens next. 4 1/2 stars. *ARC Provided by Penguin ...more *** 4 *** I think I am a bit in-love with Charles! Yes, he is my perfect alpha male:-) Smart, strong, with a sense of humor and responsibility, overprotective but also attentive and loving - what is not to love???? However, he Anna and he are the perfect couple, so I have to bow out and just enjoy their connection... Connection, which in this book was under threat, mating bond damaged by guilt and self-doubt... The third book in the Alpha & Omega series starts two years after Hunting Ground *** 4 *** I think I am a bit in-love with Charles! Yes, he is my perfect alpha male:-) Smart, strong, with a sense of humor and responsibility, overprotective but also attentive and loving - what is not to love???? However, he Anna and he are the perfect couple, so I have to bow out and just enjoy their connection... Connection, which in this book was under threat, mating bond damaged by guilt and self-doubt... The third book in the Alpha & Omega series starts two years after Hunting Ground and it seems that Charles and Anna are going through some growing pains in their relationship. Anna has gained in self-awareness and confidence, but Charles who has been acting as Bran's executioner for over a century, begins a slow mental meltdown dew to enforcing some death orders, the justice of which he doubts, and guilt darkens his existence. Bran has been put in a difficult position, having to put the good of the pack ahead of his son's possible loss of control. In order to take away some of the pressure and burn-out from the harshness of his son's duties, Bran decides to send Charles and Anna to Boston to help in a case of a serial killer and boost some good PR for the wolfs. A bunch of police procedural follows, aided by some wolf and Fae magic, and many become imperiled... It wraps up in a court and sadly, fear prevails.... The good part of the content was how much Anna has grown into a strong capable woman, and a wolf who will fight to the death for her mate and their bond, even when Charles was blinded by turmoil and had become separate from her. Bran has a big role to play in all of this and I wish we saw a bit more of him - he is a very charismatic character and steels every scene he shows up in. This was a tough book to read, I am not sure exactly why, but I think it has a lot to do with the subject matter when it came to the serial killer and his victims... And the bigotry that obviously lives strong in the human population, making any progress on the side of the preternatural creatures nullified and leaving tension all around... I have noticed that, although I love all the books in the Mercy Thompson world, the Alpha and Omega books seem to leave me sad, when Mercy's books fill me with more hope, even when they might be bloodier... Despite that, I would recommend to all who read Urban Fantasy not to miss even one book in the series - they are all worth the time!!! Have a very pleasant reading to all!!! ...more Reviewed by: Rabid Reads . I'm used to the events in series installments taking place a few weeks, if not days apart, so I was a little disconcerted by the fact that FAIR GAME jumped two full years into the future. In HUNTING GROUND Bran was still contemplating bringing the werewolves out to the public, but in this audiobook it was a done deal, and Anna & Charles are now dealing with the fallout. As a result, I experienced some mild growing pains while getting up to speed; luckily I had Briggs Reviewed by: Rabid Reads . I'm used to the events in series installments taking place a few weeks, if not days apart, so I was a little disconcerted by the fact that FAIR GAME jumped two full years into the future. In HUNTING GROUND Bran was still contemplating bringing the werewolves out to the public, but in this audiobook it was a done deal, and Anna & Charles are now dealing with the fallout. As a result, I experienced some mild growing pains while getting up to speed; luckily I had Briggs' MERCY THOMSON series to help make the drastic shift in gears less jolting. I was chagrined to learn that one of my favourite werewolf couples were no longer in a happy place, however the decade\u2019s long murder spree, and smoothly crafted fae mythology proved to be satisfying distractions. Up until this point, Charles & Anna have been flying solo with regards to their investigations, so it was a hoot watching them join their efforts with various federal organizations in order to stop a killer. Latham was Cornick's designated handler, and the outcome was quite comedic as you can probably imagine. I especially liked Anna's list of do's & don'ts around her mate, and the PR tangent was good for a few laughs too. As previously mentioned, these two have hit a rocky point in their relationship, mostly because Charles' enforcer role is beginning to wear on him thanks to stricter penalties towards misbehaving werewolves. I love how even when this couple is at their lowest they still continue to communicate, and resolve their problems angst free. The fae have always played an active role in Briggs' universe, and I was excited to finally learn the real reason why they retreated to their reservations in her MT books. I never realized that such an important segment was missing until this newsflash roared to life, and forced me to revisit everything that I've learned to date in both worlds. This author sure knows how to give her protagonists a deserving foe while also ensuring that all of the secondary characters have a big impact on the overall story. I liked how Leslie's plot thread popped up throughout the novel when you least expected it to, and I really hope that she makes an encore appearance in this series. The moment I hear Holter Graham's voice, I immediately slip back into the ALPHA & OMEGA frame of mind. He's brought something extra to every installment, and in this latest one it was his Boston accents. His attention to detail never ceases to amaze, from the consistency of the protagonists, to the slight differences between Charles and Brother Wolf's tones. Several new characters were added, and he made it easy to identify each and every one of them. Graham's delivery has improved a great deal when compared to the first audiobook which I still adored, and as a result, he's now among my top three male narrators. FAIR GAME was an experience that bears repeating; I don't do re-reads very often, but this series is worthy! ~4.5 stars ...more I loved this but it was too easy for me to put down. I wasn't sucked in like I was\u00a0with the previous two books of this series.\u00a0 It starts off not long after the end of River Marked . We even get a small phone cameo from Adam and Mercy is mentioned, YAY!!! Anyway, I liked getting to read about Charles and Anna again and see how much their mate bond has changed over the past few years.\u00a0 In this book,\u00a0Charles is having\u00a0a lot\u00a0of internal issues\u00a0resulting from him being the Marrok's Wolfkiller, so th I loved this but it was too easy for me to put down. I wasn't sucked in like I was\u00a0with the previous two books of this series.\u00a0 It starts off not long after the end of River Marked . We even get a small phone cameo from Adam and Mercy is mentioned, YAY!!! Anyway, I liked getting to read about Charles and Anna again and see how much their mate bond has changed over the past few years.\u00a0 In this book,\u00a0Charles is having\u00a0a lot\u00a0of internal issues\u00a0resulting from him being the Marrok's Wolfkiller, so that created a bit of angst.\u00a0 I also liked that we got to know Brother Wolf better, too. I wasn't really interested in the mystery plot this time. It was a little too obvious to me who\u00a0was one\u00a0of the\u00a0bad guys.\u00a0So it seemed to drag to me. I really liked the little shocker at the end,\u00a0so\u00a0it really sucks that I have to wait another year for the next Mercy Thompson book Frost Burned . Now, that should be interesting! If you love Mercyverse, then do not skip this book! ...more I'm just going to let you know: I CAN'T WRITE THIS REVIEW WITHOUT SPOILERS. There, you've been warned. I read...no, DEVOURED, this book yesterday. I was completely exhausted, emotionally wrung out and completely without a clue as to how I could possibly review a book that is so good, so emotional, so deep that I didn't even comprehend how deep it was until I slept on it spectacular. Really - I'm just a peon in the world of greatness that is Patricia Briggs. The world is now aware of the existence I'm just going to let you know: I CAN'T WRITE THIS REVIEW WITHOUT SPOILERS. There, you've been warned. I read...no, DEVOURED, this book yesterday. I was completely exhausted, emotionally wrung out and completely without a clue as to how I could possibly review a book that is so good, so emotional, so deep that I didn't even comprehend how deep it was until I slept on it spectacular. Really - I'm just a peon in the world of greatness that is Patricia Briggs. The world is now aware of the existence of the Fae and now werewolves and while a good portion of the world is assimilating to this revelation, there are some who see this as a challenge to mankind itself. Bran, the Marrok (or leader of all North American werewolves), has decreed that they cannot afford any bad publicity and infractions that in the past which would have been overlooked are now to be punished severely. Charles, the only were-born werewolf known, and Bran's son, has become the executioner of justice. Charles, half Salish Indian and half Welsh, 100% terrifying and bad to the bone even in the view of other Alphas, has a secret. A secret he feels he cannot share, even with his father and most especially with his beloved mate, his Anna. (Will I ever get over how incredibly romantic it is when he calls her \"my Anna\"? Hell no!) Charles is haunted by the spirits of those he feels he has unjustly killed. He sees them in mirrors, he feels them sucking the life out himself, he even smells them. And now they are becoming stronger - so strong that he believes they can possibly reach out and harm those he loves....even Anna. To protect them he has pulled away emotionally, become a machine. It is slowly killing him inside and Anna is the only one who sees it, even though she does not know WHAT it is that is haunting him. Her Omega self is working overtime to help the man who saved her, the man she trusts and loves, and feels like she is failing. Bran tells her she needs to grow up and accept the man she married. Asil shares that viewpoint until Anna reveals what secrets she has discovered about Charles - and oh how I love Asil - he takes action. His scenes in the library with Bran are absolutely inspired: Bran threw his head back and groaned. \"You've been talking to Anna. If I'd known what a pain in the ass it would be to have an Omega who doesn't back down in my pack, I'd have -\" \"Beaten her into submission?\" Asil murmured slyly. \"Starved and abused her and treated her like dirt so she would never understand what she was?\" The silence became heavy. Bran, oh how I love you and want you to have your own HEA, reveals himself more in this book that in the past. His inner dialog is deep and revealing. His possessiveness of those he considers \"his\", which is pretty much everybody, has never been more evident. \"Your pack won't help her?\" Icy rage froze his voice. Mercy might be mated to Adam, but to his wolf she would always belong to Bran. Would always be his little coyote, who was tough and defiant, raised by a good friend because Bran couldn't trust his mate with someone he cared about who was more fragile than his grown sons. *cue the waterworks right there ladies* When a shocking series of murders happen in Boston that are possibly linked to not only the Fae but werewolves, Bran makes the surprising but brilliant decision to send Anna as a liaison for the FBI, and Charles as her bodyguard. Unbeknownst to Charles, they have decided to see if placing him in a position of being the good guy, the savior, will ease his demons. Once in Boston, it becomes plain to Anna that this could be just the help Charles needs, even though she still does not understand what is haunting him. Charles seems to bloom, not healed necessarily but better than he has been before, when his role slowly changes from executioner to bringer of justice. He knew better, knew the ghosts weren't gone. But the temptation was too great. It had been so long since he'd touched her, and Brother Wolf was so hungry. Almost as hungry as he was. So he opened the bonds that tied wolf to mate and said, as mildly as he could manage, \"Open the door please.\" The door snapped open and she looked at him, her face entirely serious and her eyes bright with tears. \"You talked to me.\" Charles bent his head down and touched his nose to hers, closing his eyes to hide the effect of the knowledge of what he'd done to her - and the effect of feeling her, skin on skin once more. The mystery surrounding the murders in Boston was well done. I had a suspicion but nothing concrete as to who the actual killer might be and I thought Briggs did an excellent job with the flow of the story. The black magic angle was scary but interesting and it played nicely into the problems that Anna and Charles were having in their relationship. The scene on the island? Swoon! I'll never get enough of Charles being possessive - never. I think what struck me the most though, was near the end, when Charles believes he has failed Anna in the most devastating of ways (when he believes those who have taken her may rape her, knowing this could be an act that will destroy her, given her past) that I became the most emotional: Isaac was pretty surprised that the high & mighty Lord of the Elves didn't get how scared he should be right now, stuck as they all were in a car with Charles while Charles's mate was in the hands of a serial killer. That he didn't was a tribute to the hellacious poker face Charles had on. He should know the Marrok's Wolfkiller was about to lose it and lots of people were going to die. I won't completely spoil the ending, other than to say it's wonderful and again made me cry. Having slept on this review overnight I came to the conclusion that Patricia Briggs has herself become the Marrok-ess. She has given us Anna, the Omega wolf we all love and want to protect, even though she's badass enough to protect herself. She's given us Charles, who scares us all but in a giddy way that makes us wish WE were Anna. She's given us Bran - the scary monster who looks like a 20-something California lifeguard. And she's given us, her readers, our own pack to belong to. ...more Wow! What a ride! Patricia Briggs proves once again that she is a master story-teller. The world she creates has me actually believing that there are werewolves, witches, fae, and the like living amongst us. I love how she incorporates magic and the spirit world into her books. The third book in her Alpha and Omega series, Fair Game was well worth the wait. In this book, Anna worries about Charles. She\u2019s afraid that his enforcer role is causing him to burn out. Anna is no longer the meek, skitti Wow! What a ride! Patricia Briggs proves once again that she is a master story-teller. The world she creates has me actually believing that there are werewolves, witches, fae, and the like living amongst us. I love how she incorporates magic and the spirit world into her books. The third book in her Alpha and Omega series, Fair Game was well worth the wait. In this book, Anna worries about Charles. She\u2019s afraid that his enforcer role is causing him to burn out. Anna is no longer the meek, skittish wolf of the previous books. She has confidence and poise. When Anna approaches Bran the Marrok with her concerns, she is dismissed. Through the intercession of Asil and Adam, Bran decides to send Anna and Charles to Boston to act as consultants to an FBI task force. The FBI task force is searching for a serial killer in Boston who has been hunting werewolves and fae. Several new characters are added to the Alpha and Omega world and I hope that they will be making appearances in later books. Leslie Fisher is the lead FBI agent and the liaison between Anna and Charles and the rest of the task force. Isaac is the Boston area Alpha. Alistair Beauclaire is a fae and the father of one of the missing. If you thought that Charles was scary, don\u2019t mess with Beauclaire. As a representative for all the werewolves, Anna shines. P.R. work is perfect for her as Anna does not look threatening. She is born into the role, using her calming influence, and her diplomatic skills explaining how to behave around a dominant werewolf like Charles. Charles \u2013 Where do I start? I was kind of frustrated with Charles. I really wished he would have communicated more with Anna. Instead, he shut down and allowed Brother Wolf to take over. This is where Briggs excels in her writing: Charles, the man and the wolf are almost seamless. They are fully integrated. I also love how his Salish Indian spiritual side is incorporated into his character. There is some sex in this book. Yay! It\u2019s just at a weird and unexpected point in the plot. That\u2019s all I\u2019ll say. The ending! The ending just blew me away! It was perfect. It was spectacular. Please don\u2019t make us wait so long for the next book, Ms. Briggs! Team Badass' review here . Interview with Patricia Briggs here . Favorite Quotes - Leslie learned two valuable things about the fae that day. They were powerful and charming-and they ate children and puppies. I can't believe you just called me a white eye. Better than pale-face, I suppose, but it is just so Bonanza. ...more Anna and Charles are easily one of the best and sweetest couples I've ever read about. Charles defines an alpha hero without being an asshole. I love that. I hate the asshole hero. It can be interesting at times, but that concept gets really old. Charles bent his head down and touched his nose to hers, closing his eyes to hide the effect of the knowledge of what he'd been doing to her-and the effect of feeling her, skin on skin, once more I like that Briggs made a hero who respects and admires t Anna and Charles are easily one of the best and sweetest couples I've ever read about. Charles defines an alpha hero without being an asshole. I love that. I hate the asshole hero. It can be interesting at times, but that concept gets really old. Charles bent his head down and touched his nose to hers, closing his eyes to hide the effect of the knowledge of what he'd been doing to her-and the effect of feeling her, skin on skin, once more I like that Briggs made a hero who respects and admires the heroine. He listens to her, he doesn't try to get in her face, and he doesn't overrule her. I see this way to often in Urban Fantasy and Paranormal Romance. This series is a nice change from all that SHIT! Anna, an omega werewolf, experienced great trauma and pain in her past. She dealt with it in the only way she could. She knew how to protect herself, and still does. Charles helped her to understand how to protect herself. But, he also pulled her from the traumatic after effects of that experience. Anna had so much to deal with in regards to how she reacts to others. Anna and Charles have been together for a couple years now. Their relationship has grown so much since her life in Chicago. Charles has been seeing Ghosts. His father was a shaman, who would see ghosts if he was out of balance. Charles' father relies on him to take care of any business where a wolf needs to be put down because of madness or injustice. He's the marrok's son. But he's also the man responsible for assassinating any mad/ill wolves. He does it because it's necessary. Even though he knows it's necessary, he hates it. In this book, Charles starts to feel the guilt for the people he's killed. He's starting to drift away from Anna. She doesn't understand why he's doing this and confusing the shit out of her. Charles hasn't touched in her in three months let alone share their pack bond. He's becomes increasingly distant and Anna worries his job is destroying him. Bran sends Charles and Anna on a case in Boston to help the FBI with a mass murderer, whose killing werewolves. Bran wants people to see werewolves as the good guys, so this is why he sends Anna and Charles. Anna, an omega werewolf, has the ability to calm people down which is why Bran makes it her assignment. The serial killer, the FBI has been searching for many decades, tortures his victims. They believe this killer may be related to the Fae; but, Charles and Anna believe he may not be alone. Briggs' plots doesn't work for everybody. When I first read Moon Called, I was turned off by her plotting. She goes agonizingly slow with the pacing at first. Then it builds until it becomes a very fast and action-packed story. In Fair Game, she really gets the reader used to the characters we already know. She slowly builds the plot by introducing new characters and plot lines. Every scene in this book has its purpose. She plants clues along the way to make the reader surprised when they figure out. In this book, we see Anna and Charles as a couple at odds with each other. Charles struggles with his ghosts. Anna worries she's losing him; to their relationship and to his wolf. She's very frightened and wants to help him. Only, he won't let her help him. He fears his ghosts will attack his mate, so what does he do? He keeps her from the mate bond, his emotions, the truth, and what's really going on. Asshole, right? I understand why he did it. I just think the way he handled it idiotic. You had to lie to your mate to protect her? DUDE! SHE'S AN OMEGA WEREWOLF! she can protect herself. While I understand you want her to protect herself, then why are you protecting her? She's a strong, confident, and grown woman. She can handle it. I love Charles, but he can be an ignorant douche sometimes. I love his sweetness and generosity towards others. He's not one to dominate his mate, only when he's stupid. Cue the secret-keeping ridiculousness. There's very few problems I had with this book. Unfortunately, the last is sorta questionable and fucking ginormous . It's also a little bit of a spoiler. (view spoiler) [Anna and Charles go to an island with the team looking for the serial killer. Black magic has a presence on this island. Meaning the magic can influence the people on it. It manipulates them in various ways. Anna starts become manipulated by this black magic by telling Charles that she thinks the problem with their relationship is that he doesn't want her anymore. He recognizes this as the magic influencing Anna. He pleads with her to change to her wolf. She's resistant and so he shows her how he feels. They both consensually have sex while looking for a killer, who could pop up at ANY MOMENT. Fucking damn it, I couldn't believe that happened when I read it. I...couldn't .....form....any......fucking.....WORDS! (hide spoiler) ] (view spoiler) [ \"That was really dumb....my fault. I'm sorry. We could have been attacked by the killers.\" She threw up her hands. \"We might as well have set up camera and invited everyone to watch. And now we're going to have to go meet up with our audience and explain ourselves.\" \"If you think that it was dumb, unnecessary, and your fault,\" he said in a husky voice, \"then you weren't paying attention.\" (hide spoiler) ] (view spoiler) [ While I would like to agree with Charles, I have to say I'm kinda siding with Anna on this one. It was fucking stupid, guys. Lesson 1: DO NOT HAVE SEX WHEN THERE COULD BE A KILLER NEARBY! I get that you guys were all hot and bothered and what not, but yeah......not smart. The circumstances don't override your actions in this case scenario. At least, it wasn't enough to convince me. (hide spoiler) ] Even though that huge ass issue bothered the shit out me, I enjoyed it. What can I say? It was a good book. There weren't as many werewolf beasties in this one for me to really give it my certified cold hearted star. But, I still got all gooey inside when Charles and Anna would sweet talk. TRIGGER WARNING: (view spoiler) [For readers who are traumatized by rape/abuse please be aware that Anna is a victim of rape and sexual abuse. There is mention of her past in this book. So this is a light warning, but still a warning if this is a trigger for you. Please beware before you read this book. (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more 3.5 stars Fair Game, the third book in the Alpha & Omega series picks up a few years after Hunting Ground. I was quite thrown off with this because it didn't read like Charles and Anna had been together that long, it was like reading about a couple who were still in the early stages of their relationship. It doesn't help matters that Charles is pushing Anna away and ignoring the mate-bond between them. Charles having been Bran's executioner for years begins to breakdown mentality. To save his 3.5 stars Fair Game, the third book in the Alpha & Omega series picks up a few years after Hunting Ground. I was quite thrown off with this because it didn't read like Charles and Anna had been together that long, it was like reading about a couple who were still in the early stages of their relationship. It doesn't help matters that Charles is pushing Anna away and ignoring the mate-bond between them. Charles having been Bran's executioner for years begins to breakdown mentality. To save his son's sanity, Bran sends Charles and Anna to Boston to aid the FBI with the investigation of a missing girl and the murders of several local werewolves. This book was more procedural, it did seem less original than the previous books but overall it was still enjoyable. It was quite predictable and it didn't offer anything new to the genre. The humans vs others, the power imbalance between the two and the predujice between humans/supernaturals are all common themes in the UF/PR genre. I wasn't impressed with the use of the same UF/PR tropes but the badass ending made up for it all. I'm liking Anna more and more with each book - she's more stronger, confident and capable. It was great to see Anna fighting hard for her relationship with Charles, even when he kept pushing her away. I thought Anna would eventually give up, become distant and start to think Charles didn't want her..but Anna doesn't lose faith in their relationship. I've never been enamoured with Charles - he's too arrogant of his own power and he's also a little bland. I did find his protectiveness of Anna sweet and liked how growly he got when anyone got to close to her. I would have been more pleased if his epiphany about carrying out his father's orders vs losing his sanity and thus losing Anna had happened sooner. I wish there had been more Bran, he's such a complex & layered character and he's far more interesting than Charles. Bran is in a difficult position, he's ultimately destroying his son to protect his pack but it's hard not to sympathize with him. Bran has to balance his duties as a father to that of an alpha. I'd really like this to be explored more in future books because it'd fascinating to see what Bran's limits as an alpha are. I'd also like to see more of the Bran/Leah relationship. I know everyone hates Leah but I don't blame her for being how she is..who wouldn't be bitter, cruel and angry knowing that their partner didn't even like them and never being able to have the one thing they want - a child. I think I'm one of the few that would like to see Leah get a HEA. One thing I dislike about Patricia Brigg's books are the amount of female characters who end up being raped and abused. I don't think Mercy and Anna's sexual abuse have been handled all that well..with both of them committing to a very serious relationship so soon after their ordeals and then having the rapes/abuse just brushed under the carpet when it's inconveniant to the story. I also disliked some of the dialogue and writing, it was frustrating to read as it didn't flow very well. The ending was brilliant. I was so happy to see justice done. I really wasn't expecting that to happen and I'm looking forward to see how the actions at the end will impact Mercy's and Anna's worlds in future books. ...more The first chapter is available. It's incredible. (view spoiler) [Anna verbally faces down Bran. Werewolves tremble at his feet and she'll still standing. Yay! Anna's grown brass balls. LOL (hide spoiler) ] It has me salivating for the book. For people who haven't read the series, you must give it a try. It's an urban fantasy with romance, suspense, and mystery. No love triangles or angst. Solid couple. Good mystery. Contemporary setting. Werewolves, vampires, and fae. http://www.patriciabriggs.com The first chapter is available. It's incredible. (view spoiler) [Anna verbally faces down Bran. Werewolves tremble at his feet and she'll still standing. Yay! Anna's grown brass balls. LOL (hide spoiler) ] It has me salivating for the book. For people who haven't read the series, you must give it a try. It's an urban fantasy with romance, suspense, and mystery. No love triangles or angst. Solid couple. Good mystery. Contemporary setting. Werewolves, vampires, and fae. http://www.patriciabriggs.com/books/f... This book will be MINE on release day! Short Story (.5) - \"Alpha and Omega\" in the anthology On the Prowl or in single ebook format Book 1 - Cry Wolf Book 2 - Hunting Ground Book 3 - out this February ...more Well, it has been quite a while since we got a new release in this series, hasn\u2019t it? It feels like I have been counting down to the release of Fair Game forever. I reread the last book, Hunting Ground , to get back into the swing of things, and it was just as awesome as I remembered. Perhaps the change in tone in the series wouldn\u2019t have been so glaring if I hadn\u2019t reread the second book, but I did, so it stuck out. It\u2019s not that the new tone was bad, it was just\u2026 different . In the previous books Well, it has been quite a while since we got a new release in this series, hasn\u2019t it? It feels like I have been counting down to the release of Fair Game forever. I reread the last book, Hunting Ground , to get back into the swing of things, and it was just as awesome as I remembered. Perhaps the change in tone in the series wouldn\u2019t have been so glaring if I hadn\u2019t reread the second book, but I did, so it stuck out. It\u2019s not that the new tone was bad, it was just\u2026 different . In the previous books we have seen Anna struggle to get over the abuse she was subjected to by her first pack. Charles has always been a rock for her, despite struggling with the worry that he wasn\u2019t doing everything exactly right to help her recover. So flipping things around and making Charles the one to struggle this time around perked my interest. I found it a bit surprising that Anna seemed to be so completely over her past issues (even up til the last book), but I suppose she had to step into the role of the rock while Charles struggled. I find it amusing that I mentioned in my review of Hunting Ground that I thought this series was more PNR than UF, because it wouldn\u2019t feel the same or be quite as good without the romance, and I got to turn around and test my theory with this book. The change in tone in the series stems from one simple reason: the romance was pushed into the background. Charles\u2019s personal demons led him to close himself off from Anna. A lot of this book featured them interacting like acquaintances, not a married couple. I understood why Charles was acting that way, but I have to be honest and say that it gave the book a very subdued feel. Anna spent a lot of time upset about the distance between them and Charles spent a lot of time worried about his issues bleeding off onto her. But there wasn\u2019t much quality interaction together. As the romance is one of the main draws of the series for me, that wasn\u2019t a good thing. Other than that, the mystery and world details were just as wonderful as you would expect to find from Briggs . We\u2019re taken out of our normal comfort zone when Bran sends Anna and Charles to Boston to help the human authorities track down a serial killer. I liked seeing a more capable Anna, working on werewolf PR and smoothing the waters with the police, and I liked that we got such a strong focus on Anna and Charles only. I missed the usual werewolf dynamics and the uniquely animalistic characteristics we\u2019re usually treated to, but I liked getting to see a whole new cast of characters and getting a glimpse of the human side of things. The crimes were quite disturbing, and some of the people they called in to consult on the case gave me the willies. Witches certainly can be a creepy bunch. o_O Although most of the book felt subdued, the last quarter of it really kicked it in gear. That\u2019s when the action started to get thick and Charles and Anna started to work things out. My enjoyment, as well as the book\u2019s final grade, was bumped up considerably during this time. And when the very end came\u2026 Well, I have to hand it to Briggs . I did NOT expect that. AT ALL. I gaped at the book a bit and frantically tried to figure out where she was planning on taking on the series. I don\u2019t know. All I know for sure is that I plan on sticking around to find out. Based on that end, I bet it\u2019s going to be a hell of a ride. Favorite Quote: His brother maintained that what sent people backing away way neither his size nor his mother's blood, but solely the expression on his face. To test Samuel's theory, Charles had tried smiling--and then solemnly reported to Samuel that he had been mistaken. When Charles smiled, he told Samuel, people just ran faster. *Review and GIVEAWAY are posted on Fiction Vixen * ...more It is not wise to give something old and powerful something they care about. And I am very old. Best book in the series, hands down. Charles has become the Marrok\u2019s assassin; Anna is worried that his job is making him suffer; Bran doesn\u2019t see what he can do about it; Adam, my one true love, comes up with a solution; The Alpha & Omega couple heads to Baltimore to work with the government on a whodunit serial murder case. When this series was first introduced, I can\u2019t say that I didn\u2019t like it, bu It is not wise to give something old and powerful something they care about. And I am very old. Best book in the series, hands down. Charles has become the Marrok\u2019s assassin; Anna is worried that his job is making him suffer; Bran doesn\u2019t see what he can do about it; Adam, my one true love, comes up with a solution; The Alpha & Omega couple heads to Baltimore to work with the government on a whodunit serial murder case. When this series was first introduced, I can\u2019t say that I didn\u2019t like it, but I can\u2019t say that I became a huge fan either. I was (still am) so in love with the Mercy Thompson series, that I was feeling like Charles and Anna were the side characters in their own book.. They grew on me in Hunting Ground and now\u2026 Now I love them just as much as Mercy. You\u2019ve got to give it to Briggs, she knows how to build relationships for her characters, romantic or not. When Charles and Anna first met, it wasn\u2019t love at first sight. Charles\u2019s wolf picked Anna as his mate because she brought him peace. She on the other hand accepted him because he made her feel safe and protected. Throughout the 3.5 books in the series, they learn each other, they become friends and they fall in love. Briggs doesn\u2019t leave it at that; they have to fight for their relationship every step of the way like any real couple would. In this book, Charles is drawing away from Anna, wanting to protect her from the darkness that\u2019s consuming him. I love how much Anna has changed since Cry Wolf . She has always been an admirable character, surviving the horrors of her past, but in Fair Game she has a new kind of confidence and charisma. She wins everyone over, getting into the hearts of the toughest and the baddest and they don\u2019t even know what hit them. Charles is as always the quiet and intimidating type. He hates what he does, but it\u2019s a dirty job that somebody\u2019s got to do, and there is no one else but him. It was really touching, him trying to protect Anna from his suffering. These two have some great moments together in this book; I just couldn\u2019t get enough of them. What really made the difference though, was the mystery execution. Its plot was one of Briggs\u2019s best and it\u2019s got a thriller quality to it. It\u2019s fast paced with lots of speculating, investigating and interesting side characters. It is also heartbreaking. The victims, who happen to be children in many cases, suffer terrible abuse in the hands of their kidnapers before their deaths. I don\u2019t usually sacrifice my sleep over a book, but in this case I really didn\u2019t have a choice. As for the ending\u2026 A major event takes place that will change the world as we know it. Since this is a Mercy Thompson spin-off and it takes place right after River Marked , it will probably be affecting her next book too. Can\u2019t wait to get my hands on it. ...more Posted on Under the Covers What happens when a werewolf is forced to kill others of his kind without any sort of break? What toll does it take on the werewolf and subsequently his mate? These questions are asked in FAIR GAME, the third and highly anticipated book in the Alpha & Omega series by Patricia Briggs. FAIR GAME starts out with a low point between Anna and Charles\u2019 relationship. Anna feels detached from her mate, Charles. Her father-in-law, Bran, is now making Charles hunt out-of-cont Posted on Under the Covers What happens when a werewolf is forced to kill others of his kind without any sort of break? What toll does it take on the werewolf and subsequently his mate? These questions are asked in FAIR GAME, the third and highly anticipated book in the Alpha & Omega series by Patricia Briggs. FAIR GAME starts out with a low point between Anna and Charles\u2019 relationship. Anna feels detached from her mate, Charles. Her father-in-law, Bran, is now making Charles hunt out-of-control werewolves without any sort of break. Whenever Charles comes home to Anna after these assignments, he is devoid of any emotion and love and this is when Anna starts to believe that his continued killing is now taking a toll on her mate. She approaches Bran and tries to reason with him, telling him that Charles will lose himself completely if he doesn\u2019t stop this. However, as Alpha, Bran has limited people to turn to with such an important and dangerous task. In an effort to give Charles a small break, he sends Anna and Charles, as her guard to Boston where they will be working with the FBI and Cantrip to catch a killer. Since Charles has been on edge lately, he keeps himself away from Anna to protect her from himself. But because of this, their relationship is strained. Anna wants her loving mate back, but Charles wants to keep his distance for fear of hurting her. For most part of this book, Anna and Charles work their way through the ups and downs of this strain. However, they still do a great job of working together on this case. Brother Wolf also makes many appearances that eventually help them get back to where they are meant to be relationship wise. The romance isn\u2019t as pronounced in this book because of the strain in their relationship. However, there are really heartbreaking moments that are simply too sweet not to share: \u201cShe had taught him that to be brave, you have to fear losing something. I am afraid I will lose her. That they will take her from me \u2013 or that I will drive her away when she sees what I really am.\u201d \u201cPeople as old and powerful as he should never be given someone to love. For Anna he would destroy the world.\u201d Briggs opens up this book with an amazing prologue that introduces a new character named Leslie who plays a big role throughout the book. As a FBI agent who helps Anna and Charles, I found that I instantly liked her. The same can be said for Issac, an Alpha in the area. What I liked about this book was the fact that Briggs isn\u2019t afraid to create a diverse ethnic cast. It\u2019s always refreshing when you read about that in novels. FAIR GAME makes me remember all the things I loved about this series: the perfect match between Charles and Anna, some mystery, and enough action to keep a girl like me happy. I only wish there were more pages! *ARC provided by publisher ...more 4.5 stars So. Wow. I'm surprised that I liked this book as much as I did. I'm not a huge fan of forensic thrillers. I love Criminal Minds, but sometimes it's just a little too creepy and words are capable of so much more than a TV series. So I avoid them. But it's hard to avoid them when a favorite author sneaks it into her series. Sneaky, sneaky. I was able to enjoy Fair Game despite the FBI hunt for a serial killer for the same reason so many Patricia Briggs fans get frustrated with her--she's 4.5 stars So. Wow. I'm surprised that I liked this book as much as I did. I'm not a huge fan of forensic thrillers. I love Criminal Minds, but sometimes it's just a little too creepy and words are capable of so much more than a TV series. So I avoid them. But it's hard to avoid them when a favorite author sneaks it into her series. Sneaky, sneaky. I was able to enjoy Fair Game despite the FBI hunt for a serial killer for the same reason so many Patricia Briggs fans get frustrated with her--she's reluctant to write about certain acts in explicit detail. I'm okay with that. I don't read books only for the sex, and implication can get the job done just as well. Implication can also provide a believable sociopath without digging in and burying oneself in the disturbing alternate-reality perspective of said sociopath. Yay for that. ...more Well, I whipped through that one fast! Review to come. People as old and powerful as he should never be given someone to love. For Anna he would destroy the world. This has easily become one of my favorite series, period. The relationship that Patricia Briggs builds, between all the characters, but especially between Charles and Anna, is stunning. Fair Game starts right on the heels of the end of River Marked , so the time-lines are finally matching up. The werewolves have come out the public, and with that the rules for werewolves have become much mor People as old and powerful as he should never be given someone to love. For Anna he would destroy the world. This has easily become one of my favorite series, period. The relationship that Patricia Briggs builds, between all the characters, but especially between Charles and Anna, is stunning. Fair Game starts right on the heels of the end of River Marked , so the time-lines are finally matching up. The werewolves have come out the public, and with that the rules for werewolves have become much more strict. With more and more wolves needing to be pulled into line, Charles is busier than ever, and it's starting to wear on him. Anna's worried about him, and takes it to Bran - who doesn't know what to do. After Adam comes up with a possible solution, Anna and Charles are headed to Boston to help the FBI. As I said above, Charles and Anna's relationship is the true draw of this series for me. The fact that their relationship requires work on both their parts makes it very real. It's been a few years since Charles and Anna met, in Chicago and had an instant connection. Ever since then they've had to work at their relationship and with each other. Sometimes fighting for their relationship, others fighting against the protective instincts of their mate. The love, trust, and respect that underlies all of this is what draws me in and makes me invested in this couple. Charles spends a good amount of time trying to protect Anna from the things that are affecting him in Fair Game . And she rails against that, knowing that she can help if only he'll let her. It's an interesting dynamic to watch - Charles, the dominant, can't really help the need to protect. Anna, an Omega who loves her mate above all, can not stop the driving need to help. They butt heads a few times; there are consequences for their actions - something that I've always loved in this world - and in the end they come out stronger. I never doubt that they'll make it work, because they truthfully never doubt they will. The mystery plot that drives the book is interesting, and different. We're out in the world, seeing the wolves interact with federal agencies, trying to stop a serial killer for them - instead of the secretive world of the supernatural community. After seeing how many people had been attacked by this killer, so many of them children, I was anxious to see Charles and Anna bring him to justice. I was able to figure out who the mystery bad-guy was before the end, but it didn't detract from the story at all. The major event at the end though, Blew.My.Mind. I did not see it coming, and can not wait to see the wider implications throughout the world. Immediately after finishing the book I had to go back and re-read this part again because I was sure I'd mis-read it originally. This book kept me on the edge of my seat, reading late into the night to finish it, and satisfied on all levels. Patricia Briggs keeps getting better and better, and I can't wait to see what she comes out with next. ...more 5 \"Catching a Serial Killer\" Stars for the story and narration! I absolutely loved this third book in the Alpha & Omega Series! Now that the werewolves are out, they must be much more careful in their public image. That means that Charles, as the enforcer of his pack, is working overtime. Unfortunately, all this killing discipline is haunting Charles literally. Fortunately, Anna, his mate, has his back even if Charles refuses to open up the mating bond to allow her to truly hear and feel wha 5 \"Catching a Serial Killer\" Stars for the story and narration! I absolutely loved this third book in the Alpha & Omega Series! Now that the werewolves are out, they must be much more careful in their public image. That means that Charles, as the enforcer of his pack, is working overtime. Unfortunately, all this killing discipline is haunting Charles literally. Fortunately, Anna, his mate, has his back even if Charles refuses to open up the mating bond to allow her to truly hear and feel what is disturbing him. Amidst this backdrop, and in some respect due to it as a possible welcome change to Charles' pace, Anna is sent on a mission to help the government track down a serial killer with obvious supernatural abilities. Charles, of course, as her mate and protector is right there alongside her. As the clock winds down to find the killer before he succeeds again, Charles & Anna also begin to rediscover each other. But will Anna be able to break down Charles' self-defense mechanism before it's too late and be able to stop the serial killer at the same time? As always Holter Graham does a fantastic job of narrating. Mr. Graham maintains remarkable consistency in this large cast of characters voices making it feel like you are listening to an old familiar movie, allowing you to easily sit back and enjoy the complex and intrigue story that Ms. Briggs has spun. I can't wait to continue on with this series! Source: Library-copy. ...more Oh. My. God. So I was thinking this was a solid 4 star throughout. Anyone who's up to book three in this series and has probably also read the Mercy Thompson series, knows what I know. The writing is great. The characters and complex. Briggs knows what the fuck she's doing. I'm always nervous near the end of her books because the climax is usually in the second to last chapter, so I'm worried things with feel abrupt and not get wrapped up. I'm always wrong. The last chapter was EFFEN PHENOMENAL an Oh. My. God. So I was thinking this was a solid 4 star throughout. Anyone who's up to book three in this series and has probably also read the Mercy Thompson series, knows what I know. The writing is great. The characters and complex. Briggs knows what the fuck she's doing. I'm always nervous near the end of her books because the climax is usually in the second to last chapter, so I'm worried things with feel abrupt and not get wrapped up. I'm always wrong. The last chapter was EFFEN PHENOMENAL and I REALLY hope that Frost Burned picks up this story-line in the world. How could they not?!? It was epic, and just, and fucking righteously badass and I'm SO EXCITED! (view spoiler) [Dumbass fucking humans were fucking asking for it! INNOCENT?!?! You tell 'em fae! \"We, the fae, declare ourselves free of the laws of the United States of America. We do not recognize them. They have no authority over us.\" HELL fuckin' YEAH!!! And I was just hit by the similarities to the amazing and devastating movie A Time To Kill starring Samuel L. Jackson where he kills the two white men who are tried and found innocent after brutally raping his 12 year old daughter. (hide spoiler) ] ...more More of a 4.5 really. Read it on the plane to and from France. (Had to squeeze that in there :P) Cannot rec this author enough in the urban fantasy genre. Charles almost broke my heart in this one- but I loved he and Anna together. Great character development and interaction and good seriel killer mystery. EPIC new direction for the magical world at the end. (This means war- Yeah, Patty Briggs went there.) Fair Game is a huge WIN in the Alpha and Omega series. Originally reviewed here . So how many of you out there follow Patricia Briggs ' Alpha and Omega series as well as her Mercy Thompson one? I'm always curious about how many followers the offshoot series get as compared to the flagship ones. This has been on my mind, especially in light of Ilona Andrews ' Gunmetal Magic recently making its debut (more to come on that one soon). I was torn at first with the notion of this series, though. First of all, I love the tiny glimpses of Charles we get in Merc Originally reviewed here . So how many of you out there follow Patricia Briggs ' Alpha and Omega series as well as her Mercy Thompson one? I'm always curious about how many followers the offshoot series get as compared to the flagship ones. This has been on my mind, especially in light of Ilona Andrews ' Gunmetal Magic recently making its debut (more to come on that one soon). I was torn at first with the notion of this series, though. First of all, I love the tiny glimpses of Charles we get in Mercy's world. And I was insanely curious about the Marrok's hit man son and how he would fare in his own story. At the same time, no Mercy? No Adam? But potentially more Bran . . . THE EMOTIONS! I have them. So back when the introductory novella first came out, I picked it up in a Barnes & Noble and stood there reading the first pages. Just to see. You understand. Well, I ended up finishing it right there. Standing in the bookstore. I immediately purchased it and began counting down the days until the release of Cry Wolf , the first full-length novel in the series. I was not disappointed, and I enjoyed the next book well enough, though Mercy still held a place of honor in my heart. So I guess I had somewhat moderate expectations for the third book in the series. I was expecting good. But, you guys, I got amazing . Anna hasn't been happy in some time now. She loves her adopted home in Montana. She loves being part of a pack that's positively civilized in comparison to the one she belonged to in Chicago. And she loves her mate. But Charles hasn't been present for months. He's there next to her. He goes through the motions. And he carries out his father's will with an implacable determination. But despite all this, Charles is missing. And Anna has had enough. As an Omega, she alone has the ability to face the Marrok and not cow to his power. But Bran, in all his wisdom, cannot see another way to mete out the necessary justice across the packs of North America without using Charles as his enforcer. Nevertheless, Anna is determined to destroy whatever is haunting Charles and see their bond restored once more. And then Bran sends them on a mission to Boston. Missions are nothing new to Charles. But this one is different. This time Anna is in charge. She will be the face of the Marrok in dealing with the FBI, the fae, and other federal agencies in regards to a string of murders stretching over decades and involving the deaths of wolves, fae, and humans alike. Charles is to be merely the \"backup.\" Both Anna and Bran hope this reprieve will provide some much needed downtime for the Marrok's dreaded Wolfkiller. That, in time, he will begin to heal. Truthfully? FAIR GAME is utterly fantastic, the best urban fantasy I've read this year by a long shot. I was swept away by the story instantly, and I had honestly sort of reached the point where I thought there might not be much more for me with this series. I was so wrong, the kind of wrong that puts a big fat smile on my face for being proved wrong in the best kind of way. I connected with Anna in book one. I've always liked her. But she blew me away here. She's so smart. She's learned so much and grown incredibly savvy when it comes to werewolf politics and dealing with the Marrok. And she puts her considerable skill and wit to work here in such subtle ways that I simply could not contain my admiration for her. And then there's Charles. It's impossible not to love Charles. If you are at all affected by the strong, silent type then you and Charles will get along just fine. This installment sees him at the end of his rope, if you will. His job as the Marrok's enforcer has taken the kind of toll no other wolf could withstand and remain sane, and Charles himself is on the brink of disaster. A favorite passage: Charles let his hand linger on Anna's back. She wore a sweater and a light jacket, but he pretended he could feel the heat of her through the clothing that covered her. Brother Wolf wanted her off this island and somewhere far away from killers who hunted werewolves and left no scent behind for them to discover. But Charles knew better. To try to encase his Anna in Bubble Wrap would be to kill the woman who protected him with her grandmother's marble rolling pin. She was the woman he fell in love with. Then why are you hiding your ghosts from her? Brother Wolf asked. Because I am afraid, Charles answered his brother, as he would have answered no one else. He had lived a very long time, and only since he gained Anna had he learned to fear. He'd discovered that he had never been brave before--just indifferent. She had taught him that to be brave, you have to fear losing something. I am afraid I will lose her. That they will take her from me--or that I will drive her away when she sees what I really am. Beauclaire had addressed that. Charles couldn't remember the fae's exact words, but he felt them. People as old and powerful as he should never be given someone to love. For Anna he would destroy the world. The emotional play at work in this book is complex and riveting and every character shone. More than any of Briggs' other works, this one is a police procedural at heart. The investigation is relentless and filled with the darkest of killers. In fact, this is the darkest book in the series by far. But it is also the most sophisticated, the most compelling, the most rife with emotional payoff, development, and excitement. I was shocked at the outcome and almost painfully eager to find out just exactly how Ms. Briggs is going to address the fallout in both the next Alpha and Omega book and the next Mercy Thompson book. I love how the two are intertwined, and I will be knocking on my local bookstore's door the day the next one comes out. Well played, Ms. Briggs. FAIR GAME is going on my Best of 2012 list no question. ...more Review Courtesy of Dark Faerie Tales Quick & Dirty: An intense manhunt for a serial killer. A story about people, or werewolves, who are haunted by their ghosts, sometimes literally. Opening Sentence: \u201cGo home,\u201d Bran Cornick growled at Anna. The Review: At last! The third installment of the Alpha and Omega series is here. Oh, how I have longed to find out how Charles and Anna are doing. Well folks, let me tell you that not that much has changed. Charles still is trying to protect Anna from himse Review Courtesy of Dark Faerie Tales Quick & Dirty: An intense manhunt for a serial killer. A story about people, or werewolves, who are haunted by their ghosts, sometimes literally. Opening Sentence: \u201cGo home,\u201d Bran Cornick growled at Anna. The Review: At last! The third installment of the Alpha and Omega series is here. Oh, how I have longed to find out how Charles and Anna are doing. Well folks, let me tell you that not that much has changed. Charles still is trying to protect Anna from himself; not believing in her enough to trust her not to freak out and leave him. Anna is still haunted, though not as much as before, by the events described in the novella \u201cAlpha and Omega\u201d found in the On the Prowl Anthology. Her abuse still shapes her emotional reactions. Given that\u2026 It\u2019s been a few years in the timeline from the last book, Hunting Ground. The wolves are known to the humans now and werewolf rules are strictly enforced. They cannot seem out of control to the humans and no longer allow small transgressions to go without punishment. Charles has been sent on more \u201cenforcer\u201d jobs than ever before, and they are taking a toll on him. Bran, the Marrok and Charles\u2019s father, won\u2019t give Charles a break and Anna is pissed about it. Can no one but Anna see that anymore kills might just break Charles? A chance arises for Anna to play consultant for the FBI on a serial killer case and Charles goes along to play bodyguard. Their relationship seems to have hit a rough patch and Anna hopes this is an opportunity to reconnect with her husband and mate. She pushes Charles to confide in her throughout the story but he takes his sweet time doing so. She wants him to view her as an equal, and not someone to coddle. Can Charles give Anna what she needs? Can Anna stay strong and not bend to Charles\u2019 will? Charles is being haunted, literally, by his ghosts. His guilt has allowed the spirits of those he feels he has killed unjustly to follow him around. He worries that these spirits and their doubts will attack Anna through their mate bond and hurt her. He is forced to rely on his inner wolf, aptly named Brother Wolf, for help in controlling the spirits and protecting those around him. Normally, werewolves who let their wolves take over is usually considered a bad idea, but the relationship/bond between Brother Wolf and Charles is anything but. Is it truly a good idea to let the wolf take over in the middle of a manhunt? Is this the only way Charles can take care of business? I think not. In his misguided attempt to protect Anna, he instead alienates her from himself. Oh the tangled webs we weave, Charles. I just want to yell at the book, \u201cDon\u2019t do it, man! You\u2019re gonna lose her that way!\u201d Usually, I only get this worked up with horror movies so in my opinion that means; God Job, Ms. Briggs!! If Charles and Anna\u2019s relationship woes are not enough for you to go out and read this book, the creepy serial killer should do it. According to the FBI, the man known as the Big Game Hunter, has been on a killing spree since 1975. His latest victims have all been werewolves and the FBI need a little help to catch him. With the help of Anna, and therefore Charles as well, they finally feel like they have a chance to catch this psycho and his possible accomplices. But at every turn, they are foiled. Does that mean there is an insider that\u2019s helping the Big Game Hunter? Which one of their inner circle is a bad guy in disguise? Interesting new characters of note include Issac Owens, Alpha of the Olde Towne Pack, and Alistair Beauclaire. Issac is rash and impetuous for an Alpha but is a good guy to have around. He tries to do right by his pack and that\u2019s good enough for Charles. Alistair is another fish entirely. His daughter is the latest victim to be taken by the Big Game Hunter and he will do anything to get her back. He has his own secrets, one of which is that he is a powerful fae. Not a bad guy to have on your side when hunting something that can take out werewolves. The alliance of the FBI, fae, and werewolves adds a wonderful dynamic to the book as a whole. I love it when people band together to fight evil; makes me tear up every time. *sniff* What a worthy sequel to an equally worthy series. If you can\u2019t seem to get enough, I recommend picking up the sister series, Mercy Thompson. A mischievous coyote shifter raised in the Marrok\u2019s werewolf pack that is now mated to an Alpha of another? A woman that constantly challenges men that no one else in their right mind would? Good times. Notable Scene: Then he snarled at her. \u201cYou are not leaving me.\u201d It was an order, and she didn\u2019t have to follow anyone\u2019s orders. That was part of being Omega instead of a regular werewolf \u2013 who might have had a snowball\u2019s chance in hell of being a proper mate. \u201cYou need someone stronger,\u201d Anna told him again. \u201cSo you wouldn\u2019t have to hide when you\u2019re hurt. So you could trust your mate to take care of herself and help, damn it, instead of having to protect me from whatever you are hiding.\u201d She hated crying. Tears were weaknesses that could be exploited and they never solved a damned thing. Sobs gathered in her chest like a rushing tide and she needed to get away from him before she broke. Instead of fighting his grip, she tried to slide out of it. \u201cI need to go,\u201d she said to his chest. \u201cI need \u2013 \u201c His mouth closed over hers, hot and hungry, warming her mouth as his body warmed her body. \u201cMe,\u201d Charles said, his voice dark and gravelly as if it had traveled up from the bottom of the earth, his eyes a bright gold. \u201cYou need me.\u201d The Alpha and Omega Series: 1. Cry Wolf 2. Hunting Ground 3. Fair Game FTC Advisory: Penguin/Ace Books provided me a copy of Fair Game. No goody bags, sponsorships, \u201cmaterial connections,\u201d or bribes were exchanged for my review. The only payment I received were hugs and kisses from my two little boys. ...more Do you have a younger sibling? If so, you know the feeling of euphoria that comes from hearing, \"Of course you can go,\" followed by the deflation from, \"...as long as you take your brother with you.\" Why, parents, why? I resented my brother so much for being my skinny, little ball and chain. I hated feeling handcuffed to him and having to be a package deal if my friends invited me over. Likewise, I typically loathe spinoff series, especially if they poach a favorite character or involve a storyl Do you have a younger sibling? If so, you know the feeling of euphoria that comes from hearing, \"Of course you can go,\" followed by the deflation from, \"...as long as you take your brother with you.\" Why, parents, why? I resented my brother so much for being my skinny, little ball and chain. I hated feeling handcuffed to him and having to be a package deal if my friends invited me over. Likewise, I typically loathe spinoff series, especially if they poach a favorite character or involve a storyline that affects the original series. I hate feeling like I HAVE to read/watch this other series for the sake of the original. When Grey's Anatomy and Private Practice did their crossover episodes, I had a flashback to as long as you take your brother with you and post-traumatically deleted Grey's from my DVR. Even in the recent Lizzie Bennet Diaries when Lizzie talks about going back and watching all of Lydia's videos, I was like, \"I know what you're doing. YOU CAN'T TRICK ME.\" So it's with this pleasant mindset that I went into the Alpha & Omega series, Patricia Briggs' spinoff of the Mercy Thompson series, my one urban fantasy love. Surprisingly, I liked it. Unsurprisingly, not nearly as much as Mercy. Still, I marathoned these books over four days, much like I did with the Mercy books. Fair Game , aka Criminal Fae Minds! Charles and Anna are their own were- BAU . And yes, it's as awesome as it sounds. A serial killer targeting supernatural victims is loose in Boston. Bran sends Charles and Anna to assist in the investigation. This is a nice change for both because Charles the emo wolf has been super emo lately. Due to his role as Bran's enforcer, he's had to carry out harsh punishments that he doesn't agree with. (He's kind of like Katsa in Graceling actually.) Boston is the territory of local alpha, Isaac. What I liked about this book that wasn't in the previous two books is how established the world is. In Cry Wolf , Anna is new to town and she and Charles spend most of their time in Charles's house and then the mountains. In Hunting Ground , they end up traveling to Seattle to oversee a werewolf summit with wolves from all over the world. Aside from a few local wolves, everyone is an out of town guest and it feels like that in the book setting as well. In Fair Game , the characters from Isaac to FBI Special Agent Leslie Fisher are fully drawn supporting characters. I actually wouldn't mind if Charles and Anna stayed in Boston and Isaac and Leslie became regular cast members instead of guest stars. Aside from Bran and Asil, there haven't been many consistent characters throughout the series. One of my favorite aspects of the Mercy books are the wonderful supporting characters like Warren, Kyle, Stefan, etc. There are BIG THINGS in Fair Game, but after reading the chapter sampler for Frost Burned on Patricia Briggs' website , it seems like you can get away with not reading the Alpha & Omega series. However, after a shaky start, I think I'm going to stick with the series. I really liked the direction of Fair Game and Patricia Briggs' writing is so addicting. I want to see what new reason Charles will have for being morose. If you haven't read either series, I'd definitely recommend starting with Moon Called . If you are a Mercy fan already, Alpha & Omega will help you pass the time til the next Mercy book (2 more hours!!) but thankfully, it's not a forced package deal. This review appears on Young Adult Anonymous along with a quick review of the other two books in the series. ...more", "Title": "Fair Game"},
