{"Comments": "<+++>Bright Eyes</+++> was a little different than the previous 4 books in the series with a little more suspense but I still found it quite enjoyable. Zeke\u2019s first intentions when seeing his vandalized property was to march next door to talk to the boys\u2019 mother and teach him a lesson. When he meets Natalie,<---M> the sexy country singer</---M>, he almost forgets why he marched over there. He\u2019s blown away with her beauty and the way her hips move in her sequin dress. They both decide that in order to pay off the damage <+++>Bright Eyes</+++> was a little different than the previous 4 books in the series with a little more suspense but I still found it quite enjoyable. Zeke\u2019s first intentions when seeing his vandalized property was to march next door to talk to the boys\u2019 mother and teach him a lesson. When he meets Natalie, the sexy country singer, he almost forgets why he marched over there. He\u2019s blown away with her beauty and the way her hips move in her sequin dress. They both decide that in order to pay off the damages Chad has to work for Zeke to pay off his debt. During their days at work Zeke starts bonding with Chad, a boy who is in serious need of a father figure due to his non-existent relationship with his father. Natalie and Chad's 4 year old sister also help out to speed up the repairs. But as Zeke spends time with the three of them he starts loving their company. He instantly falls in love with Rosie, who talks non-stop and speaks with the eloquence of an adult, and Natalie whose beauty and sexy voice just stops him dead in his tracks. Zeke who once enjoyed living in complete solitude suddenly finds his home empty. He has grown to love the three of them as if they were his own family and feels alone when they are not around. Natalie soon falls in love with Zeke and is always in need of his embrace. She spent 11 years married to an unfaithful man and Zeke is nothing like her cheating ex husband. When Natalie\u2019s ex-husband is murdered she first becomes the number one suspect and then becomes the number one target. Zeke helps her clear her name and the real murderer is finally caught. Finally Natalie has met the man meant for her who loves her kids as his own. There were so many cute scenes in this book. I loved the part when Rosie knocks on Zeke\u2019s door and they have a one on one. Such a little girl with so many demands! Zeke fell instantly in love with her then. Also, I thought it was cute how Zeke would climb into Natalie\u2019s room window every night like sneaky teenagers! Zeke was so old fashioned that he wouldn\u2019t be caught sleeping with Natalie even though they were engaged. They had to be married first! It was so funny when little Rosie caught Zeke in the room one morning...Oh and the part where Zeke proposed while Natalie was singing on stage\u2026. I loved when he got down on both knees\u2026 VERY CUTE! ...more A wonderful story!! I was drawn into this one in the first few pages.<---F> Zeke is a confirmed bachelor</---F>. He comes home one day to find his property vandalized by the boy next door. This leads him to the boy\u2019s mother, who he is instantly attracted, too. The woman just came out of a terrible marriage, and is wary of Zeke. They strike a deal that the boy will repay Zeke for the damages by working for him. I really like the relationships in this book. There is Natalie\u2019s family that is hilarious, as well A wonderful story!! I was drawn into this one in the first few pages. Zeke is a confirmed bachelor. He comes home one day to find his property vandalized by the boy next door. This leads him to the boy\u2019s mother, who he is instantly attracted, too. The woman just came out of a terrible marriage, and is wary of Zeke. They strike a deal that the boy will repay Zeke for the damages by working for him. I really like the relationships in this book. There is Natalie\u2019s family that is hilarious, as well as the Coulter clan. A romance, humor, and murder mystery thrown in too! So far, I think this is my favorite in the series. ...more Gostei bastante. N\u00e3o \u00e9 t\u00e3o bom como o anterior \"Mais perto do c\u00e9u\" mas \u00e9 sem d\u00favida um bom livro, ali\u00e1s como \u00e9 caracter\u00edstico desta autora. At\u00e9 agora nao houve nenhum livro que nao gostasse. Gosto sempre dos protagonistas (<---B>como n\u00e3o gostar!?</---B>) e claro das damas que vem arrebatar os cora\u00e7\u00f5es da fam\u00edlia Coulter :) Neste livro Zeke v\u00ea a sua moradia vandalizada e percebendo que os estragos foram feitos pelo filho mais velho da sua vizinha, Natalie, que por sinal n\u00e3o tenho dinheiro para pagar as repara\u00e7 Gostei bastante. N\u00e3o \u00e9 t\u00e3o bom como o anterior \"Mais perto do c\u00e9u\" mas \u00e9 sem d\u00favida um bom livro, ali\u00e1s como \u00e9 caracter\u00edstico desta autora. At\u00e9 agora nao houve nenhum livro que nao gostasse. Gosto sempre dos protagonistas (como n\u00e3o gostar!?) e claro das damas que vem arrebatar os cora\u00e7\u00f5es da fam\u00edlia Coulter :) Neste livro Zeke v\u00ea a sua moradia vandalizada e percebendo que os estragos foram feitos pelo filho mais velho da sua vizinha, Natalie, que por sinal n\u00e3o tenho dinheiro para pagar as repara\u00e7\u00f5es, o vaqueiro oferece trabalho ao miudo em troca do dinheiro que receberia. Depressa Zeke e Natalie se apaixonam. Natalie, tra\u00edda pelo marido mas sonhadora, tem potencial para cantar mas falta-lhe ambi\u00e7\u00e3o. Zeke vai mostrar que todos merecem uma segunda oportunidade no amor e que todos devemos lutar pelos nossos sonhos. A felicidade do casal n\u00e3o dura muito devido \u00e1 morte de Robert, ex-marido de Natalie, assassinado. Natalie como principal suspeita, vai precisar de todo o apoio e ajuda de Zeke para limpar o seu nome. Mais uma vez a autora \u00e9 brilhante a descrever as qualidades e defeitos das suas personagens, as for\u00e7as e fraquezas de cada uma, juntando ao romance um pequeno toque de mist\u00e9rio que s\u00f3 refor\u00e7a o amor, amizade e protec\u00e7\u00e3o que se sente entre os protagonistas. Agora \u00e9 ler o resto da saga na lingua original :) ...more Bright Eyes is a little different in tone than the other two of Anderson's books I've read. It's not quite a poignant, but it's still an interesting romance. I enjoyed seeing Zeke's perceptions and desires shift. His relationship with Natalie's son was wonderfully done. I liked how that was the initial focus of the connection between Natalie and Zeke. One of the things I liked most about the book was the more traditional romance of it. Natalie and Zeke meet, are attracted to one another, engage i Bright Eyes is a little different in tone than the other two of Anderson's books I've read. It's not quite a poignant, but it's still an interesting romance. I enjoyed seeing Zeke's perceptions and desires shift. His relationship with Natalie's son was wonderfully done. I liked how that was the initial focus of the connection between Natalie and Zeke. One of the things I liked most about the book was the more traditional romance of it. Natalie and Zeke meet, are attracted to one another, engage in a relationship, fall in love, and decide to get married. So many romances in books are chock full of angst, denying feelings, breaking up, getting back together, etc. It's nice once in a while to read a book where there is a more natural flow to two people getting together and staying together. So I really enjoyed that aspect. Another great part of the book was that there were some truly hilarious scenes. I couldn't stop laughing at a couple of them. It's always great when some humor is surprisingly slipped into a book. All in all, a good read. It's maybe not a serious and dramatic as Anderson's other books, but I liked it. ...more A pontua\u00e7\u00e3o correcta seriam 2,5*. Mais um romance que se l\u00ea bem, mas... ficou ali a faltar qualquer coisa. Os personagens s\u00e3o giros, a filha ent\u00e3o \u00e9 um amorzinho, mas foi muito amor e muito de repente com nenhuma contrariedade e isso tornou-se aborrecido para mim. \u00c9 engra\u00e7ado e aconselho a pessoas bem rom\u00e2nticas ;) 3.5* Author : <---A>Catherine Anderson</---A> First published : 2004 Length : 414 pages, 5939 kindle locations Setting : Contemporary. Crystal Falls, Oregon. Sex : Explicit. Reasonably frequent. Hero : Owns hardware store. Heroine : Divorced with children. Owns a club. Singer/songwriter. Cheating : Natalie\u2019s ex cheated on her throughout the marriage. Trigger : Natalie suffered emotional abuse throughout her marriage. Includes : Excerpt from Back in My Heart (renamed Always in My Heart ). First up, a quote. There they are, busily gett Author : Catherine Anderson First published : 2004 Length : 414 pages, 5939 kindle locations Setting : Contemporary. Crystal Falls, Oregon. Sex : Explicit. Reasonably frequent. Hero : Owns hardware store. Heroine : Divorced with children. Owns a club. Singer/songwriter. Cheating : Natalie\u2019s ex cheated on her throughout the marriage. Trigger : Natalie suffered emotional abuse throughout her marriage. Includes : Excerpt from Back in My Heart (renamed Always in My Heart ). First up, a quote. There they are, busily getting it on, and she wants him to hurry it up: \u201c Any more romantic, and she was going to rape him. \u201d loc.3055 My jaw dropped. Not funny, Jan. Once more, we have the potential for an interesting story but Anderson muddies it. ~ Autocratic and slightly odd Hero. ~ Story is told mostly from his pov, and I didn\u2019t like him. ~ Anaemic police officer. *groan* I want to like it. And I do like the overall story. Even how the characters from previous books gently wind through. I simply am not enamoured of the writing style. And the rape reference, while very minor and throw away, I can\u2019t see as appropriate. Kendrick/Coulter/Harrigan series : Book 1 Baby Love - Rafe Kendrick and Maggie Stanley Book 2 Phantom Waltz - Ryan Kendrick and Bethany Book 3 Sweet Nothings - Jake Coulter and Molly Wells Book 4 Blue Skies - Carly Adams and Hank Coulter Book 5 Bright Eyes - Zeke Coulter and <---C>Natalie Patterson</---C> Book 6 My Sunshine - Laura Townsend and Isaiah Coulter Book 7 Sun Kissed - Samantha Harrigan and Tucker Coulter Book 8 Morning Light - Loni MacEwan and Clint Harrigan Book 9 Star Bright - Rainie Hall and Parker Harrigan Book 10 Here to Stay - Mandy Pajeck and Zach Harrigan Book 11 Perfect Timing - Caera O\u2019Ceallaigh and Quincy Harrigan References : Author's website: http://www.catherineanderson.com/book... (ISBN 978-1-1012-1002-4) -CR- ...more Another great story from Anderson in the continuing saga of the Hot Coulter brothers. Bright Eyes was very different from her 1st four books. It almost seems Anderson tried to approach this book in a romance/ detective/ suspense writing style. Nonetheless, it was a great story between Zeke and Nattie. I'm really starting to belive cowboys with boots, wranglers, Chambray shirts and stetsons are HOT!! I hope this series carries on as good as it has been. Loved this book! Zeak is fun and a great example of patience as he meets his next door neighbors kids. You will love the relationship he builds with both of the children and wish it were yourself when he courts their mother Natalie. The way he looks at Natalie, a woman having had two children and a bad marriage is an inspiration. I loved it from beginning to end. I love Catherine Anderson's books. This one was good but not my favorite. I loved the secondary characters and felt they really made this story. http://devaneiosdajojo.blogspot.pt/20... Reviewed for THC Reviews For the second time in a row, I picked up a book by a somewhat neglected favorite author. I read one of Catherine Anderson's stand-alone novels last year, but it's been four years since I read the previous book in the Kendrick/Coulter/Harrigan Families series. For the second time in a row, I received the gift of a great read. Bright Eyes is filled with tender romance, family drama, and a light mystery that kept me fully engaged throughout. I loved all the characters and h Reviewed for THC Reviews For the second time in a row, I picked up a book by a somewhat neglected favorite author. I read one of Catherine Anderson's stand-alone novels last year, but it's been four years since I read the previous book in the Kendrick/Coulter/Harrigan Families series. For the second time in a row, I received the gift of a great read. Bright Eyes is filled with tender romance, family drama, and a light mystery that kept me fully engaged throughout. I loved all the characters and how they interacted with one another. As a writer myself, I know it couldn't have been easy to juggle all those characters and still manage to balance each one's contribution to the story and to give each of them their own unique voices and personalities. Catherine Anderson is a talented author and one who I'm going to have to remember to read more frequently, because she almost always gives me a wonderful and emotional read. Zeke is another of Ms. Anderson's to-die-for heroes. He's a real sweetheart who's much more of a beta hero, although he does possess a touch of alpha protectiveness. Even in those moments, though, I thought he came off as a lot less dictatorial than Natalie perceived him to be, but after her horrible marriage, it was understandable that she would feel that way. Zeke was very understanding to allow Chad to work off his debt rather than calling the police or demanding immediate restitution from Natalie for Chad's misdeeds. Even though he takes a hard line on Chad missing church summer camp if necessary to finish paying him back, Zeke even softened on that point once he understood the full import of it. He's great with little Rosie too. In spite of not really considering the possibility of having kids before Chad and Rosie came into his life, I think he was a natural insta-dad, probably a product of his own father being such a great role model. What I love most about Zeke, though, is how wonderful he is to Natalie. He falls hard and fast, even surprising himself with the intensity of his feelings for her within a very short time. He's the exact opposite of her ex in every way, treating her and her kids like precious jewels. I adore how sweet and reassuring he is with Natalie about the perceived imperfections in her body and how supportive he is of her work and her dreams. Despite owning and running his own business, he finds the time to help her come up with new ideas for her club to increase business and best of all, he does the legwork to try to help her sell her music. I also think it's cute how he sneaks into her second-story bedroom window every night in an attempt to preserve her \u201creputation\u201d with her family and to not set a bad example for her kids. Zeke is just an all-around amazing guy, who I'd love to have in real life. He's definitely earned a pretty high spot on my favorite romance heroes list. Natalie isn't quite as broken as some of Catherine Anderson's other heroines, but she's still had a pretty rough life. She got pregnant and married young to a man who was significantly older than her, not realizing at the time that he was a master manipulator and a serial cheater. She put up with his infidelity for eleven years before finally giving him the boot, and even then, he took her to the cleaners in the divorce settlement. Despite already being a wealthy man, he ended up with half of everything, while Natalie was left to move back in with her dad and scrape just to get by. He never pays any attention to his kids either, which is why Natalie's son, Chad, starts acting out by causing mayhem on Zeke's property. Natalie is an amazing mom who does her best to provide for her kids financially as well as emotionally. She's also a great sister, daughter, and granddaughter to the other members of her colorful family. Natalie is an incredibly talented singer who started her club to have a place to live out her dream of performing for an audience. Although Zeke thinks she's good enough to be in Nashville, she's learned to content herself with her club and tries her best to keep it up and running. It's cute how she's always so distracted by the music in her head that she burns dinner and forgets day-to-day things. I can totally relate since I'm the same way except that I have stories crowding my mind instead of music. I think the most touching and relatable thing about Natalie, though, is her self-consciousness and vulnerabilities surrounding her body and her fear of getting involved with another man who might hurt her, especially considering how quickly her feelings for Zeke develop. I was happy that despite having her fears, Natalie didn't push Zeke away, and that she comes to understand that she can trust and rely on him. She was a nicely rounded heroine who has a bit of an independent streak, but who's still sweet and readily accepts Zeke in spite of her painful past. In addition to a wonderful hero and heroine, Bright Eyes boasts a large and eclectic supporting cast. Natalie's family is a wild bunch. There's her grumpy grandpa who's obsessed with Court TV, her divorced parents who can't be in the same room with one another without fighting like cats and dogs but who obviously still harbor some affection for one another, and her zany sister, Valerie, who's great with the kids but can't find a job. Natalie's kids were stand-outs too. Her son, Chad, begins the story as a troubled boy who's desperate for his father's love, respect, and attention. Zeke easily steps into that role for Chad, helping him to grow from a sullen pre-teen into a more mature young man and to find a new perspective on life. Rosie is precocious and wise far beyond her four years. She has a huge vocabulary and an understanding of things most kids her age don't, but at the same time, she can get excited about Barbies and other little girl things. Chester, a gander who is the family pet, completely cracked me up with his antics, but he's also as good as any guard dog. Zeke's brothers, Jake ( Sweet Nothings ) and Hank ( Blue Skies ) are in a couple of scenes, as are his mom and dad. The rest of the Coulter clan are pretty much relegated to the background with Tucker and Isaiah, the final two unattached Coulter siblings and heroes of the next two books, only being mentioned. Natalie's ex-mother-in-law isn't a bad person per se, but she is a stiff, formal lady who seems more concerned with the family wealth than with genuine expressions of love. Monroe, the stubborn police detective who's hell-bent on nailing Natalie with her ex's murder, rounds out the notable secondary players. Overall, Bright Eyes was an emotional and engaging read that held my attention extremely well. Things were maybe a teensy bit slow to get started in the romance between Zeke and Natalie with a lot of family drama in the opening chapters, but as soon as Zeke decided to jump in with both feet, the story took a very romantic turn. Some of the things Zeke says and does for Natalie made me melt, while the mystery and danger keeps the conflict elevated and the stakes high. Bright Eyes has become my favorite book in the Kendrick/Coulter/Harrigan Families series so far. I thoroughly enjoyed reading it from start to finish and will have to try harder to read more of Catherine Anderson's books sooner in the future. ...more Ohh these heroes of Catherine Anderson.. She knows perfectly how to warm a heart. All of her heroes are marvellous. This series so far hasn't failed. Zeke stole my heart even in previous book Blue Skies where he had a nice space in the storyline as Hank's supportive sensible big brother. I knew his story will be nothing less than perfect! And I got more.. That more being Natalie and her kids. All of her family members are crazy yet so so lovable that you won't miss the slight lack of dramatic ro Ohh these heroes of Catherine Anderson.. She knows perfectly how to warm a heart. All of her heroes are marvellous. This series so far hasn't failed. Zeke stole my heart even in previous book Blue Skies where he had a nice space in the storyline as Hank's supportive sensible big brother. I knew his story will be nothing less than perfect! And I got more.. That more being Natalie and her kids. All of her family members are crazy yet so so lovable that you won't miss the slight lack of dramatic romance. Zeke and Nattie's relationship was quite predictable and while some people may wish for more high ride of waves, more melodrama, more fighting..I'm personally a fan of no-nonsense-mature lovestory. It never got sappy. They had their contrasts but they never ego, sass or anything else come in between. Even the kids were so considerate. I was half expecting Chad to throw hurdles in the couple's way but he didn't. He accepted Zeke as a stepfather so easily. You were my friend before you fell in love with my mom Just wonderful. Simple yet perfect. Emotional yet sensible. Bonus point if you like suspense. There's a thrill which I loved too. I couldn't guess who had the motive to kill Natallie. It could be anyone whom that SOB ex had cheated. 5 \"bright\" stars for Bright Eyes ...more I really hate to give this 2 stars, but unfortunately I didn't really like or feel a connection to any of the characters (especially Natalie). The story also didn't pan out the way I wanted or thought it was going to so I was very disappointed :( Loved this book, kept me in suspense. I am really liking Catherine Anderson as an author. she is becoming one of my favorites. No geral, achei a hist\u00f3ria de Zeke e Natalie muito ao estilo de Nora Roberts. Trata-se de uma hist\u00f3ria em que o destino junta duas almas g\u00e9meas, que ao longo do livro v\u00e3o encontrando muitos obst\u00e1culos e perigos. Ao contr\u00e1rio de Nora, Catherine Anderson n\u00e3o os separa, havendo s\u00f3 algum impacto quando o casal se conhece, e , por isso, permanecem sempre juntos e apoiando-se enquanto atravessam as dificuldades. A fam\u00edlia \u00e9 um ponto bastante desenvolvido e sempre presente. Natalie est\u00e1 sempre acompanhad No geral, achei a hist\u00f3ria de Zeke e Natalie muito ao estilo de Nora Roberts. Trata-se de uma hist\u00f3ria em que o destino junta duas almas g\u00e9meas, que ao longo do livro v\u00e3o encontrando muitos obst\u00e1culos e perigos. Ao contr\u00e1rio de Nora, Catherine Anderson n\u00e3o os separa, havendo s\u00f3 algum impacto quando o casal se conhece, e , por isso, permanecem sempre juntos e apoiando-se enquanto atravessam as dificuldades. A fam\u00edlia \u00e9 um ponto bastante desenvolvido e sempre presente. Natalie est\u00e1 sempre acompanhada por algum elemento, incluindo o ganso, tanto da sua como da fam\u00edlia Zeke. O amor est\u00e1 sempre presente, talvez um pouco demasiado, mas o suspense e o mist\u00e9rio tamb\u00e9m. N\u00e3o fiquei muito convencida com o vil\u00e3o, visto que n\u00e3o \u00e9 uma personagem revela\u00e7\u00e3o. Al\u00e9m disso, tem uma hist\u00f3ria pessoal que apela \u00e0 nossa compaix\u00e3o. Parece um pouco arranjado \u00e0 pressa e tanto surge como desaparece demasiado rapidamente, como se apenas servisse para fechar a hist\u00f3ria, o que n\u00e3o est\u00e1 de acordo com tudo o que se passou anteriormente, j\u00e1 que a maior parte do livro andou em volta do que este homem fez. Penso que a m\u00e3e de Robert, o ex-marido de Natalie, daria uma excelente assassina, tanto pela sua frieza, como o seu ego\u00edsmo e pelo seu apego ao dinheiro. A primeira parte \u00e9 bastante c\u00f3mica com os epis\u00f3dios familiares, principalmente os que envolvem o ganso e o av\u00f4 Charlie. Neste caso, achei Zeke demasiado macho e autorit\u00e1rio, tanto que a escritora refor\u00e7a este ponto em determinada altura. Ao mesmo tempo que ele \u00e9 protector, tamb\u00e9m \u00e9 muito lamechas, o que faz com que n\u00e3o haja um meio termo. Em rela\u00e7\u00e3o aos seus irm\u00e3os posso afirmar que me rendi a eles e lhes achei imensa piada; o mesmo para Rosie, com a sua intelig\u00eancia e ingenuidade. Apesar de todo o \"amor\" presente em Olhos Brilhantes, e de Catherine o desenvolver bastante, muitas vezes repetindo discursos e ideias, notei um pouco de falta de interesse na personagem feminina para com a sua suposta alma g\u00e9mea. O oposto foi bastante explicito. Penso que a autora falhou um pouco no POV da personagem principal. Em rela\u00e7\u00e3o \u00e0 capa e \u00e0 sinopse achei-as cativantes, mas ap\u00f3s ler o livro posso afirmar que est\u00e3o muito \u00e0quem da hist\u00f3ria que se desenrola por dentro. A espessura do livro engana um pouco, j\u00e1 que a altura \u00e9 menor que o normal, e o papel \u00e9 mais espesso que o resto. Concluindo, a obra l\u00ea-se bastante bem principalmente gra\u00e7as \u00e0 mistura de romance com thriller. A fluidez da escrita de Anderson e o seu leque de personagens s\u00e3o bastante atractivas para devorarmos o livro e continuarmos a acompanhar a bibliografia da escritora. ...more Em 2008, quando esta autora come\u00e7ou a ser publicada em Portugal, li um livro dela e, apesar de n\u00e3o ter achado nada de extraordin\u00e1rio, entreteve e acabou por ser uma leitura agrad\u00e1vel. Passados 4 anos, achei que seria curioso voltar a ler algo dela e perceber se ainda tinha o potencial de me fazer passar algumas horas descontra\u00eddas. A hist\u00f3ria \u00e9 muito simples: Zeke Coulter compra uma casa no campo e um dia percebe que a sua casa e culturas foram vandalizadas. O culpado \u00e9 um rapaz de 11 anos, que s Em 2008, quando esta autora come\u00e7ou a ser publicada em Portugal, li um livro dela e, apesar de n\u00e3o ter achado nada de extraordin\u00e1rio, entreteve e acabou por ser uma leitura agrad\u00e1vel. Passados 4 anos, achei que seria curioso voltar a ler algo dela e perceber se ainda tinha o potencial de me fazer passar algumas horas descontra\u00eddas. A hist\u00f3ria \u00e9 muito simples: Zeke Coulter compra uma casa no campo e um dia percebe que a sua casa e culturas foram vandalizadas. O culpado \u00e9 um rapaz de 11 anos, que se sente revoltado pelo div\u00f3rcio dos pais. Zeke vai pedir responsabilidades \u00e0 m\u00e3e do rapaz, Natalie, que acaba por concordar que o pagamento dos estragos seja feito com ajuda do mi\u00fado. Como seria de esperar, Zeke e Natalie acabam por se apaixonar, mas o livro gira tamb\u00e9m \u00e0 volta de um assass\u00ednio, a partir de cerca de metade. O livro divide-se assim, claramente, em 2 partes: a primeira aborda a evolu\u00e7\u00e3o da rela\u00e7\u00e3o entre Zeke e Natalie; a segunda ganha contornos policiais e acompanha a resolu\u00e7\u00e3o de um crime. Um dos problemas \u00e9 que s\u00e3o duas partes t\u00e3o estanques que quase podiam pertencer a livros diferentes. Na primeira metade, pouco ou nada faz antever o crime que ir\u00e1 ocorrer; na segunda, a rela\u00e7\u00e3o entre os dois protagonistas \u00e9 quase completamente posta de lado. Isto faz com que, na minha opini\u00e3o, estejamos perante um livro desequilibrado em termos de narrativa. A primeira metade \u00e9 previs\u00edvel, o que n\u00e3o \u00e9 necessariamente mau se, como eu, o leitor j\u00e1 sabe ao que vai e est\u00e1 na disposi\u00e7\u00e3o de descontrair um pouco lendo uma hist\u00f3ria que n\u00e3o lhe exija muito \u2013 e, nesse aspecto, o livro \u00e9 minimamente bem sucedido. A segunda metade apresenta um caso pouco interessante e que n\u00e3o d\u00e1 pistas ao leitor que lhe permita adivinhar quem \u00e9 o culpado, estragando, no meu caso, qualquer interesse que pudesse ter surgido at\u00e9 \u00e0quele ponto do enredo. Parece que este \u00e9 um livro at\u00e9 bastante apreciado entre os f\u00e3s da autora, e juntando esta informa\u00e7\u00e3o a outros factores concluo que, entretanto, eu \u00e9 que mudei como leitora e os seus livros perderam o potencial de me cativar para al\u00e9m do m\u00ednimo exig\u00edvel. Fico contente por ter trazido este livro da biblioteca\u2026 trata-se de uma autora a que n\u00e3o deverei voltar t\u00e3o cedo. ...more I love Catherine Anderson, and I've slowly been working my way through the Coulter/Kendrick series, and this is the fifth. I did like this book, but it was my least favorite of the books in the series (but, then again, there always has to be one that is in every series). I had heard through Goodreads that this was a VERY suspenseful book, but I found that it wasn't. The plot definitely was interesting, and Anderson obviously worked hard to up the ante and give Zeke Coulter and his beloved a run I love Catherine Anderson, and I've slowly been working my way through the Coulter/Kendrick series, and this is the fifth. I did like this book, but it was my least favorite of the books in the series (but, then again, there always has to be one that is in every series). I had heard through Goodreads that this was a VERY suspenseful book, but I found that it wasn't. The plot definitely was interesting, and Anderson obviously worked hard to up the ante and give Zeke Coulter and his beloved a run for their money. I've noticed in this series that Anderson seems to alternate between having someone with legal/family issues and having someone with a medical issue, and this is a legal/family issue unlike any other I've seen so far. What made me disappointed in this book was twofold (although they somewhat go together). Instead of focusing a lot on Zeke, which I thought the book would since the series revolves around his family, more often than not, the focus was on Natalie and her family. Of course, there was a lot going on with that family, I was hoping to see a little bit more of Zeke when he wasn't with Heather. Along the same lines, I was incredibly disappointed that the Coulter/Kendrick clan didn't make more appearances in the novel. Jake and Hank are in the odd scene here or there, along with their parents, and Bethany and Ryan are mentioned in passing, but that's about it. It is mentioned that everyone else is there, but that's it, the family is referred to in a great, giant mob. This was a little disappointing, as I am a huge fan of the family as a whole, and I wanted to see more of them. Like I said, although this was my least favorite of the series so far, that should be taken with a grain of salt. In every series, no matter how much you love it, there is always going to be your favorite and least favorite, that's simply how the world works. I'm not going to stop reading the series because of that, I only have two more left, and I'll always enjoy Catherine Anderson's books. ...more While we're back to the typical \"poor traumatized divorcee learns to trust men again and is attacked by an evil stalker only to be rescued\" format, I have to give this one some credit for making the ex-husband less rage-inducing than Rodney in \"Sweet Nothings\". Robert Patterson was a jerk, but at least he wasn't a psycho, and I do like that his Freudian Excuse wasn't meant to excuse his behavior. And Natalie accepted that her son still did love his dad even if his dad didn't love him. The murder While we're back to the typical \"poor traumatized divorcee learns to trust men again and is attacked by an evil stalker only to be rescued\" format, I have to give this one some credit for making the ex-husband less rage-inducing than Rodney in \"Sweet Nothings\". Robert Patterson was a jerk, but at least he wasn't a psycho, and I do like that his Freudian Excuse wasn't meant to excuse his behavior. And Natalie accepted that her son still did love his dad even if his dad didn't love him. The murder mystery was kind of blah, though. The cops were so eager to believe Natalie did it, they didn't even bother to examine who else might have had plenty of reason to want Robert dead. And maybe it's just me, but the real culprit trying to kill Natalie felt very tacked-on, like it was an excuse for a gratuitous rescue scene. And Natalie got kind of annoying at one point, too. Too much \"woe is me, my body isn't perfect enough for the hero, I'm so fat and ugly and unloveable\" despite her flaws being minor at best, and the hero thinking she's the hottest thing since jalapeno peppers. At least she didn't wangst about it as much as Molly Sterling did. I did like the little subplot with Natalie and Valerie's parents, how they loved each other but got a divorce over a misunderstanding, and I was disappointed that we didn't get a lot of backstory or much of a resolution to that. And the scene with Natalie and Valerie bonding was pretty sweet, too. And despite Natalie's moaning and self-pity being annoying and Zeke being Yet Another Catherine Anderson Cowboy, the romance was kind of sweet and I was happy to see them finally get together. As for the kids...they were okay. Chad bonding with Zeke was pretty cute, but Rosie felt a little too fake for me. I know some kids are wise beyond their years but this book really pushed it. Still, her offering Zeke her money to help pay for Chad's vandalism was pretty cute. Overall, this was a pretty run-of-the-mill romance. Nothing spectacular, but nothing too horrible either. ...more OK, here's the deal. Up until page 193 (Reading on a Kindle) this book was all about the developing relationship between the hero and heroine and her family. It was sweet, well paced and I was hanging on every word. The plot revolved around a divorced woman with two kids who had moved in to live with her father, grandfather and younger sister on the family farm. While her ex-husband was wealthy he left her pretty much destitute and to earn a living she ran a supper club where she worked as a sin OK, here's the deal. Up until page 193 (Reading on a Kindle) this book was all about the developing relationship between the hero and heroine and her family. It was sweet, well paced and I was hanging on every word. The plot revolved around a divorced woman with two kids who had moved in to live with her father, grandfather and younger sister on the family farm. While her ex-husband was wealthy he left her pretty much destitute and to earn a living she ran a supper club where she worked as a singer. The club wasn't doing too well since The ex husband had siphoned off half of her operating income and so the business was now on the verge of bankruptcy. In fact they Were so poor that instead of buying new shoes she had to use duct tape to keep her daughters sandals together. Some of the story did not make sense, like the fact that the family was so wealthy, especially the grandmother, but none of them gave her any money to help with the kids. This didn't really ring true in my book since the grandmother was involved in their lives. But it was a minor detail that I could overlook. The hero owned the local hardware supply store and had moved in on the ranch next door. He's tall dark and handsome and quickly falls in love with the heroine and her kids. Another point I found ridiculous was the fact that he fell in love with her before they even had a relationship! But whatever, it's a romance novel after all. I was really enjoying the story up until that point (about 40% of the way into the book), but from then on The story took a turn and the whole Book became focused on a murder mystery up until the very end which was very disappointing. To tell you the truth I skim read a lot after that. For me the romance was gone at this point. what kept me reading until the end was the writing. Catherine Anderson is a phenomenal writer and has a gift for dialogue. Like I said, great book out of the starting gate but then quickly fizzled. Would not reread. ...more Akhirnya selesai juga baca buku ini Setelah lama menunda membacanya ... menyelesaikan membca nya dalam 2 hari ... Dan kesan nya terhadap karangan c.a yang satu ini begitu diluar taerget ...xixixixxi..... Biasanya kan ....ciri khas ..c.a tuh heroinnya weak...butuh pertolongan terus sepanjang waktu...namun skali ini....tipe cewe nya agak berbeda ....means heroine bisa mandiri sendiri ...ga terlalu weak and crush gitulah... As usually .. heroine nya .cacat baik mental maupun fisik ...namun kali ini akhi Akhirnya selesai juga baca buku ini Setelah lama menunda membacanya ... menyelesaikan membca nya dalam 2 hari ... Dan kesan nya terhadap karangan c.a yang satu ini begitu diluar taerget ...xixixixxi..... Biasanya kan ....ciri khas ..c.a tuh heroinnya weak...butuh pertolongan terus sepanjang waktu...namun skali ini....tipe cewe nya agak berbeda ....means heroine bisa mandiri sendiri ...ga terlalu weak and crush gitulah... As usually .. heroine nya .cacat baik mental maupun fisik ...namun kali ini akhirnya kembali normal...walau dalam status janda ...an yg paling keren ...nih cerita ada unsur detektif2 an nya ...xixixi....aq nya disuruh mengikuti cerita yang menegangkan mengungkP pembunuh eks suami si heroinny ...natalie... Walau ada unsur detektif nya tapi ga lupa authornya menenmpelkan sisi romantisnya ....yang begitu kental... Zeke yg too strong memberikan perlindungan ke natalie disaat menghadapi tuduhan menbunuh eks suaminya Zake...yang memberikan dorongan moril bagi anak2 natalie menghadapi sifat mantan ayahnya pasca perceraian yg kurang peduli dan asyik pancaran dengan gadis mudanya ... An zeke yang jadi superhero buat natali dalam segala trouble ny ... Love zake ... Suka juga dengan unsur moril yg terkandung didalamnya ...bagaimana zake jadi panutan yang baik buat chad... An buat saya nie novel diberi rate 5 dari 1 - 5 ...more this one was a single brother moved in next to a old farm with a boy that vandalized his yard and house with the tomatoes he was growing in his yard. he told the boys mother he was going to make the boy work off the damage by repairing his house. the mom had just gotten divorced from her cheating husband. she had a 4 yr old girl, which was totally unbelievable the way the little girl was talking, no 4 yr old talks like that she went to her husbands house and walks in (stupid) and takes the goblet this one was a single brother moved in next to a old farm with a boy that vandalized his yard and house with the tomatoes he was growing in his yard. he told the boys mother he was going to make the boy work off the damage by repairing his house. the mom had just gotten divorced from her cheating husband. she had a 4 yr old girl, which was totally unbelievable the way the little girl was talking, no 4 yr old talks like that she went to her husbands house and walks in (stupid) and takes the goblets that were hers (understandable) but he happened to be murdered and of course the police thought she did it her brakes were cut, well valves bled open, and she got in a accident with her kids, the cops didnt belive it. then her nightclub got vandalised, she was almost killed if not for the cute cowboy neighbor who by now has fallen in love with her and asked her to marry him (of course) the cops still dont believe it then the murderer comes into her house at night and tries to smother her to death, the cowboy comes in in the nick of time and saves her, hands the murderer over to the police who apologise to her (like that would happen) enjoyed it but not as much as some of the others. the good part about this one was it kept you guessing who the murderer was! it was some guy that got cheated out of a real estate deal by her no good x husband. ...more I thought that I would love anything by Catherine Anderson--this is the sixth title of hers that I've read so far, and I loved the five that came before. I just couldn't get into this one, though. Zeke Coulter is 34 and enjoys being a bachelor. Then he meets Natalie, his next door neighbor. She's a divorcee with a troubled 12 year old boy who just vandalized Zeke's property. So Zeke has the kid work for him to pay for the damages and falls for Natalie in the process. The book was well-written and I thought that I would love anything by Catherine Anderson--this is the sixth title of hers that I've read so far, and I loved the five that came before. I just couldn't get into this one, though. Zeke Coulter is 34 and enjoys being a bachelor. Then he meets Natalie, his next door neighbor. She's a divorcee with a troubled 12 year old boy who just vandalized Zeke's property. So Zeke has the kid work for him to pay for the damages and falls for Natalie in the process. The book was well-written and all, I just wasn't into it. They had chemistry, but the romance was too smooth and predictable. Usually, Anderson's heroines have a lot of issues that need to be worked through and overcome. Natalie, for all that she got cheated on by her former husband and had trust issues, was pretty normal and well-adjusted. On a side note, why do so many of Anderson's heroines have to go into detail about having cellulite? I can only conclude at this point that the author must have some body-image issues of her own that keep on leaking onto her characters. I don't mind a heroine who worries about being chubby, but knowing she has tapioca-like cellulite on the insides of her thighs is too much. ...more Continuing the Coulter Series (Blue Skies, Phantom Waltz, Sweet Nothings) this is the story of Zeke Coulter, the 2nd oldest of 6 and a confirmed bachelor until he discovers his neighbor's 11-year-old son destroying his garden and pelting tomatoes at his house and breaking windows. The boy, Chad, belongs to dinner club owner/singer Natalie Patterson, who moved back home after finally divorcing her philandering husband Robert. He cleaned her out while remaining very wealthy and ignores their two c Continuing the Coulter Series (Blue Skies, Phantom Waltz, Sweet Nothings) this is the story of Zeke Coulter, the 2nd oldest of 6 and a confirmed bachelor until he discovers his neighbor's 11-year-old son destroying his garden and pelting tomatoes at his house and breaking windows. The boy, Chad, belongs to dinner club owner/singer Natalie Patterson, who moved back home after finally divorcing her philandering husband Robert. He cleaned her out while remaining very wealthy and ignores their two children. Zeke decides Chad has to work off the damages - Rosie and Natalie come to help. Zeke and Natalie gradually fall in love and he becomes a natural dad. All this happens by half-way. Then Robert is murdered while Natalie was in his house unbeknownst to her. While the police think she did it, Zeke & Nat know differently and when \"accidents\" start to happen they know the murderer is now after Nat, but can't convince the police. Everything does work out well for some very nice people who've gotten the shaft. Believable Several bedroom scenes. Don't need to read others to follow the story. ...more These stories remind me a lot of the Virgin River series, except they are about siblings in one family instead of people in a town. They are sweet like that as well, but the twist is usually a bit of grittiness of real life with real issues. I loved Zeke from the start. He was a confirmed bachelor, who liked the fact that he didn't have to wait for the toilet and cook whatever he wanted. A wife and kids were no where on his horizon. Of course that all changed in a hot second when he caught sight These stories remind me a lot of the Virgin River series, except they are about siblings in one family instead of people in a town. They are sweet like that as well, but the twist is usually a bit of grittiness of real life with real issues. I loved Zeke from the start. He was a confirmed bachelor, who liked the fact that he didn't have to wait for the toilet and cook whatever he wanted. A wife and kids were no where on his horizon. Of course that all changed in a hot second when he caught sight of his neighbor, sultry Natalie. So went his heart and of course Chad her son and her precocious daughter Rosie soon snuggled right in as well. Zeke didn't know what hit him, but he knew there was no way he was letting this pretty little song bird out of his arms. A straightforward romance with just a man and a woman trying to make a relationship work. There was a murder in which Natalie was a suspect, but it was the major focus of the story and the romance took precedence. You don't have to have read the other books in the series, as this one does a good of standing on its own. ...more Zeke is just a cowboy not looking for love or a relationship when Natalie finds herself coming into his life. Natalie's son damages Zeke's property and Zeke demands that the boy pay for the damages by working it off on his ranch. The boy does not warm to Zeke at first, but gradually begins to trust in him and they hit it off. Natalie's daughter also likes Zeke and he finds himself falling head over heals in love with the whole family. Then a tragedy happens and Natalie could find herself in life Zeke is just a cowboy not looking for love or a relationship when Natalie finds herself coming into his life. Natalie's son damages Zeke's property and Zeke demands that the boy pay for the damages by working it off on his ranch. The boy does not warm to Zeke at first, but gradually begins to trust in him and they hit it off. Natalie's daughter also likes Zeke and he finds himself falling head over heals in love with the whole family. Then a tragedy happens and Natalie could find herself in life or death situations. Zeke is there to help her the whole way. This book was great and heart warming with a little romance to make it a great read. There's nothing like a handsome cowboy to sweep you off your feet and be your knight in shining armor! ...more This was my first time reading Catherine Anderson. The first half of the book was great and I thought the story had a lot of possibilities. The introduction of the murder mystery put a damper on the whole thing for me. First off, I am not a big fan of murder mystery books....It's just not what I like to read. Second, it completely took the focus off the love story and the developing relationship between Zeke and the kids. I think I would have enjoyed it more if Zeke and Nattalie had fought agai This was my first time reading Catherine Anderson. The first half of the book was great and I thought the story had a lot of possibilities. The introduction of the murder mystery put a damper on the whole thing for me. First off, I am not a big fan of murder mystery books....It's just not what I like to read. Second, it completely took the focus off the love story and the developing relationship between Zeke and the kids. I think I would have enjoyed it more if Zeke and Nattalie had fought against falling for each other harder. I also would have liked seeing more of the precocious Rosie. She was so much fun in the beginning, but she got lost toward the end. Anyway, it was a good fun read and I will probably read more from this author. ...more I guess this would be called a \"romance.\" It was in the fiction section of my library.I skipped dozens of pages of the first half which was all the typical stuff of man meets woman, woman can't stand man, man and woman have chemistry and fall in love. When the woman's ex is found dead it became more interesting. I liked her characters, they were all probable, except for the man who was, of course, handsome, rugged, self-emplyed, kind, caring about her children, capable of doing any \"handy\" job a I guess this would be called a \"romance.\" It was in the fiction section of my library.I skipped dozens of pages of the first half which was all the typical stuff of man meets woman, woman can't stand man, man and woman have chemistry and fall in love. When the woman's ex is found dead it became more interesting. I liked her characters, they were all probable, except for the man who was, of course, handsome, rugged, self-emplyed, kind, caring about her children, capable of doing any \"handy\" job and just about perfect. He has one episode of becoming \"the protector,\" she sets him straight, but he doesn't swear to never fall into the protective, old-fashioned man again. The last half was a fun read, but i don't know if i'll look for others. ...more I was definitely going to read this, I love Catherine Anderson, but I had some reservations. I saw a few reviews about how the book started strong then fizzled plus I am not normally a fan of romance books with older children involved. However, I am glad I read this book, it was fantastic! The romance was so touching and real, and the bond between the hero and the heroine's children was amazing to read about. As far as fizzling halfway through the book, it does shift from more of a focus on the I was definitely going to read this, I love Catherine Anderson, but I had some reservations. I saw a few reviews about how the book started strong then fizzled plus I am not normally a fan of romance books with older children involved. However, I am glad I read this book, it was fantastic! The romance was so touching and real, and the bond between the hero and the heroine's children was amazing to read about. As far as fizzling halfway through the book, it does shift from more of a focus on the romance to a bit of a mystery. However, there is still plenty of touching interactions and proof of the deep feelings the hero and heroine have for each other. This series is still going strong! ...more Catherine Anderson has written another wonderful book about the Coulter family. Zeke Coulter moves to a farm outside of town and next door to Natalie Patterson and her family. She has a four year old and a twelve year old who is getting into trouble trying to get noticed by his father who his mother divorced recently. Natalie's sister, father and grandfather also live with her and they are all trying to hold on to everything but having trouble doing so. Zeke was not the type to settle down but a Catherine Anderson has written another wonderful book about the Coulter family. Zeke Coulter moves to a farm outside of town and next door to Natalie Patterson and her family. She has a four year old and a twelve year old who is getting into trouble trying to get noticed by his father who his mother divorced recently. Natalie's sister, father and grandfather also live with her and they are all trying to hold on to everything but having trouble doing so. Zeke was not the type to settle down but all that changed when he met Natalie's four year old and grew to love all of them. This is a great story and a wonderful read. ...more", "Title": "Bright Eyes"},
