{"Comments": "I must admit to having a slight crisis of confidence in writing this review, questioning whether I could do justice to just how marvellous this book is. From the first few pages, I was totally immersed in the life of Sheldon Horowitz, our curmudgeonly hero of the piece: a man haunted by the ghosts of his former life and coping with the daily frustrations of growing old. From the synopsis, it is impossible to harness all the themes and subtlety of prose that this book conveys to the reader. On on I must admit to having a slight crisis of confidence in writing this review, questioning whether I could do justice to just how marvellous this book is. From the first few pages, I was totally immersed in the life of Sheldon Horowitz, our curmudgeonly hero of the piece: a man haunted by the ghosts of his former life and coping with the daily frustrations of growing old. From the synopsis, it is impossible to harness all the themes and subtlety of prose that this book conveys to the reader. On one level, not only does the book contain all the quintessential elements of a Scandinavian crime novel,<---M> it also encompasses the Korean</---M>, Vietnam and Balkan conflicts, and on a more emotional level, presents a poignant and meditative examination of aging and regret, that unusually for this cynical reader, really touched me, engaging me even more with the characters and the multi-faceted plot. As the book opens we get our first encounter with the beautifully realised character of Sheldon Horowitz, uprooted from his native America following the death of his wife, to live in Norway with his granddaughter Rhea and her husband Lars, and the dynamics of this relationship quickly become clear. Indeed, Sheldon\u2019s first response to Rhea urging him to move to Norway is to tell her to get stuffed, feeling his independence is under threat and resenting her assertion that he is in any way senile. He is stubborn and headstrong, but ingrained with a mordant sense of wit and a deep compassionate humanity, particularly evident in his utter determination to protect the life of the young boy he goes on the run with, and his seemingly testy, but ultimately loving relationship with Rhea. What we recognise at the core of his character is a wiliness and a steely determination tempered by the tragedies he has experienced in the past, in particular the loss of his comrades in Korea and the death of his son Saul (<---B>Rhea\u2019s father</---B>) in Vietnam. Throughout the book, Miller carefully incorporates touching vignettes of Sheldon\u2019s past life experiences, that convey how a man must rise above tragedy to hold onto his sanity and compassion, and how this dicates Sheldon\u2019s actions, that seem foolhardy at first, to keep those closest to him safe from harm. He is without a doubt one of the most perfectly conceived and constructed characters that I have ever read, and one that will stay with me for a long time. The plot is completely engaging, constructed as a powerful story of flight and the will for survival. Following a brutal murder in Sheldon\u2019s apartment he, without hesitation, goes on the run with the murder victim\u2019s young son, quickly realising that the boy\u2019s life is under threat. Hampered by the barrier of language, Sheldon and his charge pick their way through the beautifully portrayed backwoods of Norway, pursued not only by the boy\u2019s sinister father and his cronies, but by the Norwegian police. Every protagonist in this scenario is utterly convincing, and with the poignant relationship developing between Sheldon and the boy, stirring up an evocation of Sheldon\u2019s own relationship with his dead son, Saul, the plot is multi-layered and compelling from start to finish. The motif of war runs strongly throughout the book, not only in Sheldon\u2019s reminiscences, but in his reliance on the skills he gained in Korea to outwit those who pursue him and the boy, leading to a dramatic and heartfelt denouement which threatens all involved. I can only say in closing that I would urge everyone to read this exceptional debut with its powerful and emotive themes, but a book that retains all the tension of a totally authentic Scandinavian crime thriller. I cannot praise it highly enough and on this showing \u2018Norwegian By Night\u2019 could well be one of my top crime reads this year.<---F> An outstanding read</---F>. ...more If it wasn't for a few of my Goodread friends, this book probably would not have come to my notice. I would have missed a book that was wonderful, had all the elements that that I look for in something I read. Sheldon, a Jewish man who served in the Korean War, moves to Norway with his grand-daughter and her husband. There he finds himself as a defender to a young boy whose mother has been killed. Sheldon is a wonderfully complicated character, said to be suffering from dementia, he is sharper th If it wasn't for a few of my Goodread friends, this book probably would not have come to my notice. I would have missed a book that was wonderful, had all the elements that that I look for in something I read. Sheldon, a Jewish man who served in the Korean War, moves to Norway with his grand-daughter and her husband. There he finds himself as a defender to a young boy whose mother has been killed. Sheldon is a wonderfully complicated character, said to be suffering from dementia, he is sharper then I can ever hope to be. There is humor, political fall-out, and a man who suffers from survivor guilt and the guilt he feels over the death of his only son in Vietnam. This is well written adventure story, a personal odyssey by a man who feels he has little left to loose. Even the ending was just so darn perfect, if sad. So glad I didn't miss this one. ...more Edit: I read this in 2014 but just now, 2016, decided to change it to 5. Didn't mean for it to go out into the update feed. ------ What a great book! The first chapter is one of the best I have read in years. The book is philosophical, intelligent, heartbreaking. The lead character, 82 year old Sheldon Horowitz, is all that too, plus so wise and virtuous. All while maintaining a sense of humor to balance the bad things that have happened in his long life, mainly that everyone around him dies: his Edit: I read this in 2014 but just now, 2016, decided to change it to 5. Didn't mean for it to go out into the update feed. ------ What a great book! The first chapter is one of the best I have read in years. The book is philosophical, intelligent, heartbreaking. The lead character, 82 year old Sheldon Horowitz, is all that too, plus so wise and virtuous. All while maintaining a sense of humor to balance the bad things that have happened in his long life, mainly that everyone around him dies: his wife just recently, his son in the Vietnam war, his aging friends back in NYC, the Koreans he killed in the war, his unborn great grandchild, and now the woman in the upstairs apartment. He carries a sort of survivor's guilt around with him that weighs heavily on his disposition. The woman upstairs is actually murdered in his granddaughter's Oslo apartment while he hides in a closet with the woman's little boy. Not wanting the killer to come back for the child, Sheldon runs off with him with only his wits to get them out of Oslo and away from the killer and his gang of thugs. Sheldon leads them on a Huck and Jim type adventure down the river, while reminiscing of his Korean war days; WWII, the war that changed his life as an American Jew; and his son's death in Vietnam, for which he blames himself. Sheldon is a multi-faceted character whom we get to know much better than anyone in his family ever knew him. I simply adored everything about him and everything about this book. 4.5 stars. ...more Let\u2019s start with the good stuff: <---A>Derek B. Miller</---A>\u2019s novel is refreshingly original. What other book can YOU name that takes an octogenarian widowed American Jew who mourns a son \u201cwho named his daughter for a Greek Titan before being killed by a Vietnamese mine in an effort to please his Marine father who was once a sniper in Korea.\u201d Just \u2013 wow! Add to the fact that the American Jew \u2013 Sheldon Horowitz \u2013 may be suffering from dementia and also harbors a great deal of guilt for the death of Saul, his Let\u2019s start with the good stuff: Derek B. Miller\u2019s novel is refreshingly original. What other book can YOU name that takes an octogenarian widowed American Jew who mourns a son \u201cwho named his daughter for a Greek Titan before being killed by a Vietnamese mine in an effort to please his Marine father who was once a sniper in Korea.\u201d Just \u2013 wow! Add to the fact that the American Jew \u2013 Sheldon Horowitz \u2013 may be suffering from dementia and also harbors a great deal of guilt for the death of Saul, his only son\u2026and further add his witnessing of a violent argument between his Balkan upstairs neighbor and a scary stranger \u2013 and there is plenty of plot to propel this book forward. The first 100 pages were extraordinary. Derek Miller masterfully creates a new twist to the \u201cstranger in a strange land\u201d story. Sheldon Horowitz says to his granddaughter, who has convinced him to emigrate to Norway: \u201cA thousand Jews! I read it in the Lonely Planet guidebook! Five million people and one thousand Jews. The Norwegians do not know what a Jew is. They only think they know what a Jew is not.\u201d There\u2019s a lot of real meat here: a combination of sociology and theology, deep insight into Norway\u2019s culture, and the frosting on the cake \u2013 Scandinavian thriller-type elements. Sheldon is a watchmaker by trade who wants to fix time. As he strikes out \u2013 Huckleberry Finn style \u2013 with Paul (a stand-in for Saul), the young, mute son of his murdered upstairs neighbor \u2013 the novel takes a turn. Spiriting his war-learned skills, Sheldon is able to hide both of them in plain sight, eluding his worried family, the police, and the rather one-dimensional Albanian war criminal who started this mess going in the first place. Much of the ensuing chapters are a combination of merged real and fantasy-driven memories, fueled by flashbacks to the Korean and Vietnam War. For this particular reader \u2013 who tends to shun war tales \u2013 the result was less than satisfying, yet this is \u2013 admittedly \u2013 subjective. Interspersed with these tales are some gems and a true journey of discovery. For example, here is Sheldon reflecting: \u201cHe begins to sense that silence itself is a kind of language. There is more there than death and memory. More than the voices of the lost.\u201d In short, this is a genre-crossing book that will not appeal to every reader. For those who are open to an original story that highlights Norwegian life and tackles broad themes of making amends with the past and journeying to a sense of self, this is well worth the read. For those who prefer plot-driven books as evidenced by many current Scandinavian thrillers, it may not be. It\u2019s not a perfect book. But it\u2019s well worth the read. ...more First Line: It is summer and luminous. When you're in your eighties and a widower, the last thing you want to do is to move from your home in New York City to a new place with your granddaughter and her Norwegian husband in Oslo, Norway. But as Sheldon Horowitz knows, sometimes the last thing you want to do is the only thing you can do. He's lonely and wants to be with his granddaughter. His granddaughter has seen signs of dementia in her beloved grandfather and wants to keep him close to her. Wh First Line: It is summer and luminous. When you're in your eighties and a widower, the last thing you want to do is to move from your home in New York City to a new place with your granddaughter and her Norwegian husband in Oslo, Norway. But as Sheldon Horowitz knows, sometimes the last thing you want to do is the only thing you can do. He's lonely and wants to be with his granddaughter. His granddaughter has seen signs of dementia in her beloved grandfather and wants to keep him close to her. What neither one of them could possibly predict is an act of incredible violence that leaves a little motherless boy in old Sheldon Horowitz's care. Now the old man and the little boy are on the run from everyone who's chasing them, and we can only pray that the killer isn't the one who finds this odd pair first. This is a book that defies categorization. It's part thriller, part police procedural, part road trip, part commentary on aging/relationships/dementia-- and it has flashes of comedy throughout. When I began reading this book, I was worried about Korean War veteran Sheldon Horowitz because I was remembering when my own grandfather lived with me. By the time I finished reading Norwegian By Night, I had a big smile on my face and wished that we could all be as demented as Derek B. Miller's main character. This is a book that has so much to say-- and it manages to say everything in a rather concise manner. What this debut novelist says in 300 pages, most other writers would take at least twice the space. Miller never lets his foot off the gas-- this tale moves swiftly and surely from beginning to end. If you're the type of reader who wants a fast-paced book that starts at Point A and leads directly to Point B, you might want to give Norwegian By Night a miss. From time to time, the narrative wanders off onto dark alleys and narrow country lanes, as Sheldon visits the Korean and Vietnam Wars, memories of his wife and son... and as we learn a bit about the background of the silent little boy Sheldon is trying to keep safe. These diversions add a richness to the story that it cannot live without; they are the life's blood of Miller's characters. It takes an incredible amount of skill to be able to introduce these flashbacks and themes and not have them slow down the pace of the story, and Miller accomplishes it with ease. The element of the chase keeps the story's pace flowing quickly, while those diversions add dimension to both characterization and to the themes of aging and regret that run throughout the book. And when the action gets too scary or one of the themes gets too dark, Sheldon Horowitz is there to say or do something that will make us laugh. This book fed my mind on so many levels! It's been a long time since I've finished a book with such a huge smile on my face, wanting to invite a character home to live with me. Should we all be as crazy as Sheldon! ...more I started to read this book while staying with my mother, who has Alzheimer's dementia. My sister recommended it, and lent me her copy,and there was a kind of relevant link in that the main character, Sheldon Horowitz, may also have dementia. He's an old man, and he's the hero. When I began reading, I got confused. I don't know whether this was something to do with staying with my mother, whose illness always seems infectious. I'm much more easily confused with her, and by her, than elsewhere. Bu I started to read this book while staying with my mother, who has Alzheimer's dementia. My sister recommended it, and lent me her copy,and there was a kind of relevant link in that the main character, Sheldon Horowitz, may also have dementia. He's an old man, and he's the hero. When I began reading, I got confused. I don't know whether this was something to do with staying with my mother, whose illness always seems infectious. I'm much more easily confused with her, and by her, than elsewhere. But the central character in <+++>Norwegian by Night</+++> has flashbacks, which are also dreams, and his life is populated not only by living characters but dead ones. And there are three different wars influencing the action: the Korean War in which Sheldon once fought and in which a close friend was blown to bits, the Vietnam war in which Sheldon's son was killed, and the more recent Yugoslav wars, whose ripples are being played out in present day Norway, where the novel is set. Even as I write it down I can see that sounds confusing. The dead are as real as the living. The guilt and horror of the past plays itself out in the present. A small child stands to lose everything. Anyway, I got to page 67 and lost the plot. Then I left my mother's house and started again at page 1. This time, I got it. I got it completely. This is a murder thriller, with a Norwegian (female) detective. A touch of noir, yes. But it's much more a character study, in which the reader (even me) increasingly identifies with an old man, struggling to make sense of both present and past, and with a small boy and a grown-up daughter to protect. It's a genre novel that defies genre description, though there is a brutal murder, and a journey, and violence, and survival; and everything builds towards a riveting climax. I found myself deliberately stopping reading. Laying down the book and going to make a cup of tea, or getting up and paying attention to a non-urgent, because I was enjoying it so much, I didn't want it to end. A particular thing that makes it special is the way all the characters have back story, even the minor villains. They aren't just Bad. Things have made them Bad, and you can see how they're all victims, as well as perpetrators. All this and it's wry and funny and edgy as well. I warmly recommend this book. Oh, and the dementia, in the end, was a red herring. I didn't think he had dementia. I thought the past was as real to him as the present, which is a somewhat different matter. ...more \u201c\u00c9 um dia de Ver\u00e3o resplandecente. Sheldon Horowitz est\u00e1 sentado numa cadeira de realizador, num recanto sombrio do parque Frogner, em Oslo, numa posi\u00e7\u00e3o sobranceira ao piquenique e longe da comida. Tem uma sandu\u00edche de karbonade no prato de papel pousado no colo, meio comida porque n\u00e3o lhe agrada.\u201d \u2013 assim come\u00e7a \u201cUm Estranho Lugar para Morrer\u201d , primeiro livro do norte-americano Derek B. Miller . Parque Frogner - Oslo Sheldon Horowtiz \u00e9 um judeu americano, com oitenta e dois anos, vi\u00favo, ex-milita \u201c\u00c9 um dia de Ver\u00e3o resplandecente. Sheldon Horowitz est\u00e1 sentado numa cadeira de realizador, num recanto sombrio do parque Frogner, em Oslo, numa posi\u00e7\u00e3o sobranceira ao piquenique e longe da comida. Tem uma sandu\u00edche de karbonade no prato de papel pousado no colo, meio comida porque n\u00e3o lhe agrada.\u201d \u2013 assim come\u00e7a \u201cUm Estranho Lugar para Morrer\u201d , primeiro livro do norte-americano Derek B. Miller . Parque Frogner - Oslo Sheldon Horowtiz \u00e9 um judeu americano, com oitenta e dois anos, vi\u00favo, ex-militar, ex-fuzileiro naval da Guerra da Coreia, a viver \u2013 \u201cdesterrado\u201d - em Oslo, na Noruega, com a sua neta Rhea e com o seu marido noruegu\u00eas Lars, um famoso programador de videojogos; um estrangeiro num Pa\u00eds \u201cestranho\u201d. Depois h\u00e1 o assassinato de uma jovem mulher, Senka, uma s\u00e9rvia, que foge para a Noruega \u201cpara esconder a sua vergonha\u201d; um crime presenciado pelo seu filho de seis anos e pelo vizinho Sheldon, perpetrado por uma quadrilha kosovar e uma investiga\u00e7\u00e3o criminal liderada pela inspectora-chefe da pol\u00edcia de Oslo, Sigrid Odegard. Sheron decide: \u201cFiz uma escolha. Decidi usar a for\u00e7a que me restava para salvar o menino. A vida \u00e9 feita de escolhas. Eu sei fazer uma escolha.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 82) Um menino \u201cPaul\u201d que \u201cN\u00e3o proferiu uma \u00fanica palavra desde que se conheceram. Nem sequer um sorriso ele esbo\u00e7ou.\u201d Um rapaz que \u201cEst\u00e1 envolto no sil\u00eancio do terror, onde as palavras falham e todas as frases escorregam da realidade como os pingos de chuva deslizam de uma folha. N\u00e3o tem idade suficiente para se distrair com jogos, ainda n\u00e3o \u00e9 perito em encontrar ref\u00fagio no di\u00e1logo e no drama. Est\u00e1 indefeso. A m\u00e3e dele morreu. E \u00e9 por isso que Sheldon nunca o abandonar\u00e1.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 87) Uma fuga, uma viagem por Oslo \u2013 Parque Frogner (com as esculturas em bronze e granito do escultor noruegu\u00eas Gustav Vigeland), Karl Johans gate, Kristian IV\u00b4s gate, Bogstadveien, Majorstuen, Aker Brygge, Grunerlokka, \u2026, e pelos arredores \u2013 e um enigma \u201cAcho que tenho que ir a correr para o Territ\u00f3rio, porqu\u00b4eles me v\u00e3o adotar e sivilizar e eu n\u00e3o aguento. J\u00e1 l\u00e1\u00b4tive antes. - Ratos do Rio do Paralelo 59\u201d (P\u00e1g. 63) \u201cUm Estranho Lugar para Morrer\u201d \u00e9 um livro que retrata de uma forma eficaz as mem\u00f3rias de uma personagem, Sheldon Horowitz, a envelhecer, entre a lucidez e a dem\u00eancia, com vis\u00f5es aterrorizadoras sobre a Guerra e sobre a incapacidade de \u201cgerir\u201d os fantasmas do passado - a morte de entes queridos - onde o remorso e a culpa dominam, mas onde o amor e a amizade acabam por perdurar. \u201cQuando \u00e9 que a personalidade se transforma em excentricidade? Quando \u00e9 que o g\u00e9nio se funde com a loucura? Quando \u00e9 que a sanidade cede lugar a... a qu\u00ea? A insanidade \u00e9 simplesmente a aus\u00eancia de sanidade. N\u00e3o \u00e9 uma coisa em si. \u00c9 tudo, menos s\u00e3o. E n\u00e3o sabemos mais nada a n\u00e3o ser isso. Nem sequer temos uma palavra de verdade para descrever.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 107) Derek B. Miller escreve uma excelente primeira obra, com um her\u00f3i memor\u00e1vel e inesquec\u00edvel, que vive atormentado pelo passado, envolvido, directa e indirectamente, em m\u00faltiplas trag\u00e9dias, dominado pela religiosidade e pelo arrependimento, a viver num Pa\u00eds \u2013 Noruega \u2013 com costumes e tradi\u00e7\u00f5es muito espec\u00edficas e que enfrenta os desafios da emigra\u00e7\u00e3o das Balc\u00e3s, do Norte de \u00c1frica e do M\u00e9dio-Oriente. O t\u00edtulo original \"<+++>Norwegian by Night</+++>\" \u00e9 traduzido para \"Um Estranho Lugar para Morrer\" na edi\u00e7\u00e3o portuguesa. ...more Norwegian By Night is the first novel by American-born author, Derek B. Miller. When 82-year-old American widower, Sheldon Horowitz goes to live with his granddaughter, Rhea and her Norwegian husband, Lars, in Olso, the last thing he expects is to find himself on the run from the police with a small boy in tow. But the ex-Marine, suffering dementia, according to Rhea, has witnessed the murder of the boy\u2019s mother and feels compelled to keep the boy safe. He heads for the hills, unaware that every Norwegian By Night is the first novel by American-born author, Derek B. Miller. When 82-year-old American widower, Sheldon Horowitz goes to live with his granddaughter, Rhea and her Norwegian husband, Lars, in Olso, the last thing he expects is to find himself on the run from the police with a small boy in tow. But the ex-Marine, suffering dementia, according to Rhea, has witnessed the murder of the boy\u2019s mother and feels compelled to keep the boy safe. He heads for the hills, unaware that everyone else (Rhea and Lars, the police, the killer and his gang) is headed there too. Awarded the Crime Writer's Association John Creasy Dagger Award for a debut crime novel in 2013, it is, indeed, a brilliant debut novel, but it is much, much more than a crime novel. Miller has his characters opining on war criminals, ethnic cleansing, asylum legislation, immigration and integration, the treatment of Jews in Norway during World War Two and patriotism. The Korean War, drug trafficking, war atrocities, photography, Marine training, Vietnam, the Balkan conflict, revenge, guilt and grief all feature. Miller\u2019s characters have depth and appeal. Sheldon may be a cranky, argumentative old man but it is impossible not to like him and his voice is clearly heard in the reader\u2019s head. His conversations with both real and imagined people are full of wit and humour, some of it quite black. Rhea observes he can \u201csound childish and demented but logical all at once.\u201d so that \u201cTea. Nazi. Milkshake. Police. Are we clear?\u201d can make complete sense to the reader. Miller achieves the perfect mix of serious and hilarious, relieving tense moments with laugh out-loud-dialogue. This novel has twists and turns, plenty of tension and a nail-biting finish. This book is such a pleasure to read that it presents a dilemma for readers who will find themselves racing through it to know the final outcome whilst at the same time, wishing for it not to end. One can only hope that Miller will soon endow the reading public with another work of this calibre. Funny, moving, exciting and thought-provoking. ...more Sheldon's answer to a question about life... In this life, my body has become a withered twig, where once I stood tall... In this life, I hobble as an old man, when once I could fly over doubts and contradictions. In this life, my memories are the smoke I choke on, burning my eyes. In this life, I remember hungers that will never return, when once I was a lover with the bluest eyes... This life! This life is coming to an end without any explanation or apology... This life was an abrupt and tragic Sheldon's answer to a question about life... In this life, my body has become a withered twig, where once I stood tall... In this life, I hobble as an old man, when once I could fly over doubts and contradictions. In this life, my memories are the smoke I choke on, burning my eyes. In this life, I remember hungers that will never return, when once I was a lover with the bluest eyes... This life! This life is coming to an end without any explanation or apology... This life was an abrupt and tragic dream that seized me during the wee hours of a Saturday morning as the sunrise reflected off the mirror above her vanity mirror, leaving me speechless just as the world faded to white. ...more I am generally stingy with five stars and I am having a hard time justifying the fifth star for what appears to be a suspense or thriller novel. That's what the jacket flap makes it sound like but Norwegian by Night is somehow so much more that it defies my ability to pin down that much more in a short review. I was snared by the title. Loved the picture on the front of the silhouette of the boy in a viking helmet. It's a debut novel, written by an American (so in English) who lives in Norway. J I am generally stingy with five stars and I am having a hard time justifying the fifth star for what appears to be a suspense or thriller novel. That's what the jacket flap makes it sound like but Norwegian by Night is somehow so much more that it defies my ability to pin down that much more in a short review. I was snared by the title. Loved the picture on the front of the silhouette of the boy in a viking helmet. It's a debut novel, written by an American (so in English) who lives in Norway. Just exerted a lot of pull there on the shelf and into the book bag it went. It sounded like a good suspense story, another Scandinavian mystery, and probably an easy read, just what I was in the mood for - yipee! And I enjoyed all those things but my love for this book exceeds the basic premise of this novel. I am a little in love with Sheldon, Jewish octogenarian who may or may not have dementia, former Marine and watch repairman, published photographer, philosopher, hero. I loved his talks with his son, his wife, his friends, all of whom he has outlived. With God, with his grand daughter and her Norwegian husband. And I love how the author, through Rhea, explains Lars, the son in law, and Norwegian manhood. In my family we like to joke that Grandma married a Norwegian bachelor farmer (for followers of Garrison Keillor) - a quiet man who just gets up and does what needs to be done without a lot of fanfare. There should doubtless be many more ellipses here but you will get the gist. \"He has a transformative masculinity that hides itself from public view but comes alive privately in the way a cuddly brown bear transforms into a predator. ... It is as though the Norwegian nation has learned how to rein in unbridled masculine power and bring it into social balance, burying its rough edges from public view, but permitting expansive and embracing moments of both intimacy and force. ... He comes to terms with humanity as it presents itself. He expresses himself not in a torrent of words and ideas and disruptions, revelations and setbacks, but through an ever-expanding capacity to face what comes next. To see it clearly. To say what needs to be said and then stop.\" Yup, that's my dad, Norwegian bachelor farmer who somehow found himself with a wife and family and just quietly went about loving and caring for them. Wish I could better sum up all the good things to enjoy about this book. There are some good talking points and big themes, aging, dementia, what we present of ourselves to the world, to those we love, relationships, the fall out from multiple wars - for individuals, for nations, lots of things to think about. Just take my word for it, it's well written and there's more to it than some likeable characters and a mystery. ...more I wanted to like this book. In fact, I was all prepared to love it. The premise was intriguing, the writing decent. However, two things ruined my ability to even get all the way through it. First, it is told at times in the voice of an elderly man believed to be suffering from a touch of dementia a'la old age. Fine, I get that. He's in his 80's so, could be. But, his telling can in no way be trusted. Again, that's not necessarily a bad thing -- unreliable narrators I can do. Not, though, when th I wanted to like this book. In fact, I was all prepared to love it. The premise was intriguing, the writing decent. However, two things ruined my ability to even get all the way through it. First, it is told at times in the voice of an elderly man believed to be suffering from a touch of dementia a'la old age. Fine, I get that. He's in his 80's so, could be. But, his telling can in no way be trusted. Again, that's not necessarily a bad thing -- unreliable narrators I can do. Not, though, when the story jumps from present-to-past-to-fantasy-to-past-to-delusion-to-present-to... Do you see what I mean? One minute he can barely navigate his thoughts, the next he's orchestrated the covert takeover of a heavily guarded boat -- all with wanted fugitive minor in tow? I have trouble trusting a novel once the author has made what I consider to be incredible breaches in common sense or believability. And, the one that I just couldn't move beyond was the storyline that had the elderly character's deeply concerned, frantic, panicked daughter discover a bloody murder scene in the apartment her grandfather was now missing from, and she and her husband decide to head out to a family cabin for a few days for a little R&R. What? You have got to be kidding Me? Who does that? When characters are written to do ridiculous, unbelievable things just to move plot points along, I must opt out. And, I think it safe to predict that I'll not be opting in for any additional offerings from this author. ...more This is a gem of a book, which I have been waiting to read for sometime. That delay has been my loss; this is an excellent literary thriller, worthy of the hype. This is crime fiction at its best and a first rate novel. With a memorable main character, Sheldon Horowitz, an 82 year old widower and a plot that is tense but never gets in the way of the story, here is a book you long to read and seldom find. Beautifully written, character driven and relationship centred the story speaks with universal This is a gem of a book, which I have been waiting to read for sometime. That delay has been my loss; this is an excellent literary thriller, worthy of the hype. This is crime fiction at its best and a first rate novel. With a memorable main character, Sheldon Horowitz, an 82 year old widower and a plot that is tense but never gets in the way of the story, here is a book you long to read and seldom find. Beautifully written, character driven and relationship centred the story speaks with universal force, with pathos and passion revealing humanity at its lowest while re-enforcing community and friendship. Above all it demonstrates the depth of a human life and will leave you enriched to have shared this journey. ...more I think, like many people, with the international success of Stieg Larsson 's \"The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo\" series, I jumped on the Scandinavian bandwagon: reading Nesbo and Mankell and scouring Netflix for similar fare. That said, it was probably the title of Miller's novel that first caught my eye, and the abstract seemed unconventional and intriguing enough, so I figured \"Why not?\" I had never read anything by Miller before, and I was quite unprepared for just how much I would like this nov I think, like many people, with the international success of Stieg Larsson 's \"The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo\" series, I jumped on the Scandinavian bandwagon: reading Nesbo and Mankell and scouring Netflix for similar fare. That said, it was probably the title of Miller's novel that first caught my eye, and the abstract seemed unconventional and intriguing enough, so I figured \"Why not?\" I had never read anything by Miller before, and I was quite unprepared for just how much I would like this novel (which, despite it not being what I would normally consider a page-turner, I read in two sittings over two days). I hate using clich\u00e9s like \"heartwarming\" and \"poignant,\" but Norwegian by Night is both these things. And funny. At times, for me, laugh-out-loud funny. What struck me most, however, was the author's seemingly endless knowledge about... well... everything! American history, World history, Norwegian history and geography, armaments, watchmaking, Old Testament, New Testament.... The list goes on. However unlike some authors who like to use their writings primarily as a stage to show off their vast knowledge of obscurity (David Foster Wallace!) Miller blends his understanding of these things into his prose seamlessly. Not once did I feel \"Why didn't I know that?\" but several times I thought \"Who knows that??\" Norwegian by Night is one of the best books I've read this year. Okay... I know it's only January 5th, but you know what I mean! It's a quick read, as thought-provoking as it is entertaining. ...more Ok, it's my failing, no doubt, that I didn't get more out of this book. So many people have loved it that you can take my two star rating with a grain of salt. I just didn't get it, from the title - what did that mean? - to the motivations of the central characters to the genre. Yes, even the genre - was it a thriller or a story about a man looking back on his life or a black comedy or...it had elements of all of those things but it didn't really deliver on any of them. The hero is Sheldon Horowi Ok, it's my failing, no doubt, that I didn't get more out of this book. So many people have loved it that you can take my two star rating with a grain of salt. I just didn't get it, from the title - what did that mean? - to the motivations of the central characters to the genre. Yes, even the genre - was it a thriller or a story about a man looking back on his life or a black comedy or...it had elements of all of those things but it didn't really deliver on any of them. The hero is Sheldon Horowitz, aged 82, who, after losing his wife, has moved from New York to Norway to live with his granddaughter and her Norwegian husband. Sheldon fought in Korea in his youth and always kept the details of what happened there a secret from his family, to the extent that when he talks about it now, they assume that he must have dementia. When a neighbour is savagely murdered, Sheldon takes her child and goes on the run, to protect the child. This decision hinges on some assumptions that it seems unlikely anyone would actually make and it weakens what follows. Sheldon and the child evade the police all over Norway while the killer moves in on his family, determined to track the boy down. At the same time, being with the boy causes Sheldon to revisit and re-examine many aspects of his relationship with his own son. I did really like parts of this book, particularly the loving depictions of Norway and the occasional flashes of humour. However it was let down for me by the fact that none of the characters were fleshed out - and some of them had the potential to be terrific characters. I hope the author revisits Sigrid the police chief and that we get to find out more about her. Sheldon was also a great character - there is a lovely scene when he puts his granddaughter in her place about his dementia - but the way that the story kept chopping and changing between his past and his present and the police and the granddaughter and the villains meant that we kept losing focus on him. Also the ending, when it comes, is really rushed. We never fully understand the villian's motivations and hello? what about Lars please? ...more I wasn\u2019t sold on this book until the last paragraph. It was the same with Cloud Atlas. Don\u2019t get me wrong, I loved Cloud Atlas while I was reading it, and I enjoyed Norwegian by Night while I was reading it, but the very last words of the book wildly changed my perspective. This book is a ponderer- its interesting that so many of the problems discussed by the police chief are things that I struggle with myself (for instance, I want to be optimistic, even forgiving, but also practical in the way so I wasn\u2019t sold on this book until the last paragraph. It was the same with Cloud Atlas. Don\u2019t get me wrong, I loved Cloud Atlas while I was reading it, and I enjoyed Norwegian by Night while I was reading it, but the very last words of the book wildly changed my perspective. This book is a ponderer- its interesting that so many of the problems discussed by the police chief are things that I struggle with myself (for instance, I want to be optimistic, even forgiving, but also practical in the way society conducts its affairs but also in the way I view the world), there were times were it was so bluntly brutal it was hard not to take a step back, and while I was in the military for 8 years, I never deployed, and so I feel Sheldon\u2019s struggle (if he was a clerk, I understand the guilt of feeling like you still didn\u2019t do your part, if he was a sniper, I understand the PTSD that can plague a person subtly and not-so-subtly because I\u2019ve seen it in countless friends). Sheldon has a dark humor, and an honesty to him, and its very philosophical, but he may be (or may not be) the most unreliable narrator there is. I personally feel he knew exactly what was going on, but I think good arguments could be made both ways. Something that I don\u2019t want to give away, but I do want you to think about as you read the book- Donny\u2019s son\u2019s name was Saul, when he helps the neighbor-boy he re-christens him Paul. If you think about Saul\u2019s conversion to Paul on the road to Damascus, there are a number of ways that this can deepen Donny\u2019s own Twain-like journey through life. ...more I am really not sure what I think of this book. It is so dark which is an odd comment to make on a mystery but I actually felt depressed after finishing it. I wonder if it's the lack of sunlight that makes the Scandinavians write such gloomy stories but they have cornered the market on that. The story centers around an 82 year old New York Jew who is moved to Norway to live with his granddaughter and her husband. Sheldon Horowitz is very much a fish out of water. He doesn't speak the language, I am really not sure what I think of this book. It is so dark which is an odd comment to make on a mystery but I actually felt depressed after finishing it. I wonder if it's the lack of sunlight that makes the Scandinavians write such gloomy stories but they have cornered the market on that. The story centers around an 82 year old New York Jew who is moved to Norway to live with his granddaughter and her husband. Sheldon Horowitz is very much a fish out of water. He doesn't speak the language, has no friends, is suspected of having an onset of dementia and, to top it off, finds there are very few Jewish people living in Norway. This was a surprise to me and upsetting to learn that Norway's behavior in the past to the Jewish people led to a formal apology in 2012. Sheldon's frame of reference changes a great deal so it keeps you guessing. He has two names-Sheldon and Donny. Was he a Marine sniper in the Korean War? Are the people he talks to alive or dead? It keeps you on your toes. This is considered a literary mystery but too dark for my personal tastes. ...more Wow... just: wow. I loved this book. The tone, the characters, the humor, and the dialogue are all spot on. There's so much here, on so many levels and subjects. Norwegian by Night has things to say about aging, culture, sanity, politics, family, influence, war, memory -- and yet it manages to stay away from preachyness or telling you what to think. Best novel I've read in a while. With the death of his beloved wife Mabel, eighty-two year old Sheldon Horowitz was persuaded by his grand-daughter Rhea to join her husband Lars and Rhea in Norway. Sheldon had lived in New York for a long time, but with the passing of Mabel and the possibility of having dementia, he grudging made the journey. As a former Marine sniper in the Korean war, the fact that his only son Saul was killed on a second tour of duty in Vietnam did something terrible to Sheldon. He blamed himself for Saul\u2019s With the death of his beloved wife Mabel, eighty-two year old Sheldon Horowitz was persuaded by his grand-daughter Rhea to join her husband Lars and Rhea in Norway. Sheldon had lived in New York for a long time, but with the passing of Mabel and the possibility of having dementia, he grudging made the journey. As a former Marine sniper in the Korean war, the fact that his only son Saul was killed on a second tour of duty in Vietnam did something terrible to Sheldon. He blamed himself for Saul\u2019s death, and was consumed with grief and guilt for most of his life. The morning when he was alone in the apartment \u2013 Rhea and Lars had gone for a walk \u2013 he could hear the neighbours fighting again. It was an ongoing thing, but this time it seemed different. As circumstances would have it, he was able to hide the woman and her young son inside his apartment; until the perpetrator broke down the door. The horror of the next ten minutes caused Sheldon to act \u2013 immediately he needed to keep the boy safe\u2026.suddenly they were on the run, leaving the gruesome images behind them; who knew what the boy had in his mind. As the old man and the young boy made their way through Norway, keeping to areas where no-one would think to look, the police were deeply involved. Sigrid and Petter, investigating officers, were frustrated and on edge. Why couldn\u2019t they find an old man who was travelling with a young boy? How hard could it be? But Sheldon was using his wiles; his knowledge from years past helped him keep the boy safe. Sigrid found herself focussing on a Balkan war criminal named Enver \u2013 but she couldn\u2019t find him either\u2026. I found this book a little disappointing and not quite as I imagined it would be. The writing was very choppy, going backwards and forwards between current events and the past; which is fine except it wasn\u2019t clearly defined some of the time and therefore broke the flow of the story. There were also some instances of past and present tense in the one section which is an editing issue. But I mostly enjoyed the story; the concept of the young and the old was a great one, and Sheldon is a great character. The ending was abrupt in my opinion; I felt it didn\u2019t quite finish\u2026 Thanks for the recommendation from my GR friend Marianne; I\u2019m glad I read this book, and do recommend it to others. ...more I really wanted to like Norwegian by Night. The descriptions I heard of it made me want to find a book that I could pass on to others and say it's funny, suspenseful, and the characters were great. But, it wasn't any of those things really. The problem is that I never connected with any of the characters. So it was none of those. First, there is a crime in the story, and it drives the action, but the real background story is how the main character tries to cope with the loss of his son which he I really wanted to like Norwegian by Night. The descriptions I heard of it made me want to find a book that I could pass on to others and say it's funny, suspenseful, and the characters were great. But, it wasn't any of those things really. The problem is that I never connected with any of the characters. So it was none of those. First, there is a crime in the story, and it drives the action, but the real background story is how the main character tries to cope with the loss of his son which he does through flashbacks. Which may have been endearing, but he sees things and many of the characters claim he has dementia, so you can never really make the connection that these feelings and remorse he has actually has any basis in reality. The little boy hardly says a word and, other than wearing a Jewish star and Viking helmet, has little to no characterization. The police officer and grand daughter of the main character are never developed long enough to provide characterization. So, it wasn't bad, but I was never able to care about any of the characters which held it back a lot in my opinion. ...more I ordered Miller's \"Norwegian by Night\", while I was still reading his latest book, \"The Girl in Green\", because I was loving his writing so so much. I'm glad I did because I thoroughly enjoyed \"Norwegian by Night\" and remain in awe of Mr. Miller's talent for spinning a story that is by turns funny, heartbreaking, timely, and suspenseful. This (as well as \"The Girl in Green\") would make a terrific movie. American, octogenarian, ex-Marine, Jewish, possibly demented, Shelton Horowitz, is on the run I ordered Miller's \"Norwegian by Night\", while I was still reading his latest book, \"The Girl in Green\", because I was loving his writing so so much. I'm glad I did because I thoroughly enjoyed \"Norwegian by Night\" and remain in awe of Mr. Miller's talent for spinning a story that is by turns funny, heartbreaking, timely, and suspenseful. This (as well as \"The Girl in Green\") would make a terrific movie. American, octogenarian, ex-Marine, Jewish, possibly demented, Shelton Horowitz, is on the run in Norway hiding a young boy whose mother was brutally murdered. From there you won't be able to turn the pages fast enough. With scenes from the Vietnam war as well as the Korean war, Miller, paints us a picture of a patriot...and adds a soupcon of magic realism. Maybe. So read this, and by all means read, \"The Girl in Green\"! I hope we don't have to wait too long for Miller's next novel! ...more I would have given this book 3.5 stars if I could. It was a good read but a few things stopped it from being a great read for me. It was quite engaging and the pace was quick and towards the end it was almost \"unputdownable\" but I felt that the story line and the characters could have done with a bit more filling in. I also would have liked a bit more resolution at the end. I think too, the editing wasn't great as there were a few errors that annoyed me. Overall though an enjoyable read and one I would have given this book 3.5 stars if I could. It was a good read but a few things stopped it from being a great read for me. It was quite engaging and the pace was quick and towards the end it was almost \"unputdownable\" but I felt that the story line and the characters could have done with a bit more filling in. I also would have liked a bit more resolution at the end. I think too, the editing wasn't great as there were a few errors that annoyed me. Overall though an enjoyable read and one that I would still recommend. ...more Yesterday we had our first serious snowfall. It was a grey and humid day that made me feel depressed at the idea that winter is here after all. So I declare it a \u201creading day\u201d and sat at the couch with this book. It has been a long time since I read a whole book in a single day\u2026 The book is a genre defying mystery \u2013 all the mysteries I have come across lately are genre defying \u2013 about an old man transplanted to Norway to live with his only relative, his granddaughter, where he witness a murder a Yesterday we had our first serious snowfall. It was a grey and humid day that made me feel depressed at the idea that winter is here after all. So I declare it a \u201creading day\u201d and sat at the couch with this book. It has been a long time since I read a whole book in a single day\u2026 The book is a genre defying mystery \u2013 all the mysteries I have come across lately are genre defying \u2013 about an old man transplanted to Norway to live with his only relative, his granddaughter, where he witness a murder and in his confusion runs away with the murdered woman\u2019s small son. Every story demands a certain amount of suspense of disbelief, some stories demands a bit more\u2026 and although I liked this book very much, I wish I could believe on Sheldon\u2019s \u2013 the main character - actions more than I do . Dementia, as it is hinted in the beginning could do it, but the author seems to abandon that line very early on. What I do like very much is the sense of cultural crash happening, the chaos of immigrants and locals, of an ordered society trying to accommodate other more chaotic, macho and violent societies into its fabric. This conversation is happening all around me, here in Canada, were immigration is a necessity, yet we don\u2019t know how to deal with the sometimes deep rooted cultural, religious and gender based differences of other groups. Something else this book made me reflect on, how the scars of war, terrorism and violence permeates everywhere, affecting people 1 or 2 generations removed. How the Holocaust could lead someone to the Korean War, and could lead another generation to the War in Vietnam. Or the atrocities of Serbia and Kosovo could follow people to Norway\u2026 Or Canada\u2026 Or anywhere for that matter. Here in Canada I often feel isolated from it all, even when my eyes water at the view of murdered women and children in Syria or Palestine on TV. Then, someone shoots at a ceremonial guard at the Canadian War Memorial, or drives his car over a near to retirement army officer in the name of causes and hurts I cannot begin to understand \u2026 But I am getting off topic. Or Am I? Maybe it was the weather: the snow and fog that made me overly blue. ...more This book is a rare bird, with a protagonist who's an old man on an adventure. Sheldon Horowitz is an octogenarian who's moved from New York City to Norway, brought there by his daughter, whom he and his wife raised after their son died in Viet Nam, and his Norwegian son-in-law. Sheldon is as cranky an old widower as you'd expect for someone living with past regrets and transplanted to another country where he doesn't speak the language. But underneath his irascible and pedantic exterior, he's a This book is a rare bird, with a protagonist who's an old man on an adventure. Sheldon Horowitz is an octogenarian who's moved from New York City to Norway, brought there by his daughter, whom he and his wife raised after their son died in Viet Nam, and his Norwegian son-in-law. Sheldon is as cranky an old widower as you'd expect for someone living with past regrets and transplanted to another country where he doesn't speak the language. But underneath his irascible and pedantic exterior, he's a mensch. Which is why, when the Croatian neighbors next door have another one of their screaming domestic disputes, Sheldon lets the woman and her child hide out in his apartment. Unfortunately, the Croatian father, who turns out to be a war criminal pursuing his son, follows. Sheldon ends up fleeing with the boy, leading both the police and a gang of Eastern European mobsters on a chase through the backwoods of Norway. The story will appeal to anyone who likes the idea of an 82-year-old action hero outwitting cops and terrorists and even making a final stand in the climax. The book is interspersed with a lot of interior monologues, from many points of view - mostly Sheldon's, but also his granddaughter's, the cop who is in charge of finding him before the bad guys do, and the bad guys themselves. War, and the aftermath of war, is a major theme running through the book. The bad guys are still living out the effects of the Serbo-Croatian war and its atrocities. Sheldon missed out on World War II, but fought in Korea, and convinced his son to join the Army and fight in Viet Nam. The consequences of that haunted him for the rest of his and his late wife's life. He always claimed he was only a clerk in the Marines, but in fact, it turns out he was a sniper. Or was he? In Sheldon's rambling speeches, it's sometimes left open to doubt whether he's all there and how much of his memories are invented, especially when he talks to the ghosts of old friends. The plot was interesting and there was a diverse cast of characters all thrown together in this unlikely chain of events. I did feel the ending was rather predictable, and I got a bit tired of Sheldon's cranky-old-Jew shtick, but this was a solid 3.5 star book that's a bit off the path of my usual reading. ...more When you get to a certain age you can get by with anything, or so says Sheldon (our utterly delightful protagonist). Not that I have such experience, I try stuff but I don't get away with it. Sheldon is now an old man that has lived with his inter-demons a long time. He barely missed serving in WW2 but headed straight into the Korean War. I really hesitate to say too much about Sheldon, because if you stereotype him, you will miss so much. He is his own character. The author made a comment at the When you get to a certain age you can get by with anything, or so says Sheldon (our utterly delightful protagonist). Not that I have such experience, I try stuff but I don't get away with it. Sheldon is now an old man that has lived with his inter-demons a long time. He barely missed serving in WW2 but headed straight into the Korean War. I really hesitate to say too much about Sheldon, because if you stereotype him, you will miss so much. He is his own character. The author made a comment at the end of the book, that said Shelton helped him write the ending. It really felt like that. Through a series of happenstances and coincidences he finds himself protecting a young boy from harm. So much of what he does is because of who he is and the circumstances he finds himself in. While he does not make this point in the book, I can't help but think he would be pleased with the comparison, \"And who knows whether you have not come to the kingdom for such a time as this?\u0094 The suspense is real and natural and all of the characters are realistic and engaging. This is an enjoyable and thought provoking read. ...more Most reviews I had read before starting this book were kind of negative. I thought this was because the book was often described as a \"literary thriller\" and that it probably didn't have enough crime/thriller elements for many people. As I really enjoy literary thrillers I decided to give it a chance. There also seemed to be similar structures The Hundred-Year-Old Man Who Climbed Out of the Window and Disappeared which I enjoyed very much. Now I have to admit that my assumptions were wrong. Norwe Most reviews I had read before starting this book were kind of negative. I thought this was because the book was often described as a \"literary thriller\" and that it probably didn't have enough crime/thriller elements for many people. As I really enjoy literary thrillers I decided to give it a chance. There also seemed to be similar structures The Hundred-Year-Old Man Who Climbed Out of the Window and Disappeared which I enjoyed very much. Now I have to admit that my assumptions were wrong. Norwegian by Night isn't the typical thriller. The crime elements only play a minor. There are also some parts which could be called literary. But I often didn't get the author's point. For example I didn't understand why it should be important that the old man is Jewish. In my opinion the end also was unnecessarily brutal. The book was a quick read with some enjoyable parts. But it really isn't something I'd widely recommend. ...more Este delicioso livro est\u00e1 classificado como policial mas vai muito para al\u00e9m deste g\u00e9nero. H\u00e1 um assassinato, investiga\u00e7\u00e3o criminal e por a\u00ed fora, mas na verdade a hist\u00f3ria centra-se na vida do protagonista, Sheldon, um homem de 82 anos, que tem de lidar com os seus fantasmas, com as mortes das pessoas que lhe eram mais queridas, e com a transi\u00e7\u00e3o da Am\u00e9rica para a Noruega, local onde vai viver com a sua neta e com o marido dela. Pelo meio, h\u00e1 refer\u00eancias \u00e0s guerras da Am\u00e9rica com a Coreia do Nor Este delicioso livro est\u00e1 classificado como policial mas vai muito para al\u00e9m deste g\u00e9nero. H\u00e1 um assassinato, investiga\u00e7\u00e3o criminal e por a\u00ed fora, mas na verdade a hist\u00f3ria centra-se na vida do protagonista, Sheldon, um homem de 82 anos, que tem de lidar com os seus fantasmas, com as mortes das pessoas que lhe eram mais queridas, e com a transi\u00e7\u00e3o da Am\u00e9rica para a Noruega, local onde vai viver com a sua neta e com o marido dela. Pelo meio, h\u00e1 refer\u00eancias \u00e0s guerras da Am\u00e9rica com a Coreia do Norte e com o Vietname, bem como a guerra nos Balc\u00e3s e, como pano de fundo, o Holocausto. Creio que \u00e9 o livro de estreia deste autor e n\u00e3o poderia ter come\u00e7ado melhor... ...more Norwegian by Night follows the adventures of Sheldon Horowitz, an 82 year old ex-Marine and transplanted New Yorker in Norway. I listened to this book on a road trip and it fit the various needs of my family members - literary, witty and plenty of action. Funny, poignant and wonderfully written, this is an inspired first novel. Sheldon, aged 82, retired jeweller, slightly demented, grieving for his lost wife, turns into a kick-ass hero. I picked up this book based on the recommendation of Richard Russo, one of my favorite authors. In his \"A Year in Reading\" piece in The Millions he writes \"Well, the best novel I read this autumn is a bit of a sleeper, though its fans are oh-so-passionate. Derek B. Miller\u2019s Norwegian by Night is one of those books that completely transcends its genre and offers us one of the most memorable characters \u2014 Sheldon Horowitz \u2014 that I\u2019ve encountered in years. If you like those other Scandihoovian thril I picked up this book based on the recommendation of Richard Russo, one of my favorite authors. In his \"A Year in Reading\" piece in The Millions he writes \"Well, the best novel I read this autumn is a bit of a sleeper, though its fans are oh-so-passionate. Derek B. Miller\u2019s Norwegian by Night is one of those books that completely transcends its genre and offers us one of the most memorable characters \u2014 Sheldon Horowitz \u2014 that I\u2019ve encountered in years. If you like those other Scandihoovian thriller writers, this is your book.\" I would agree that it is a unique genre crossing book. It felt like an interesting mix of Tim O'Brien (unreliable and often dream-state war memories), Henning Mankell (Scandinavian police procedural) and Bernard Malamud (New York Jewish shop keeper stories). Although that seems like a lot to blend, the author is successful and keeps you interested in both the personal stories and the criminal investigation. ...more Well, ok, 2/3 on the grading scale. I did like several aspects of it, such as the brief insight it gave into the background of the war in Serbia/Kosovo, seen from a ground level... but the overall premise of the book about (sorry, spoiler alert!)the father wanting to regain custody of his son by rape, did not make sense, or ring true. I mean, what was his MOTIVE? Maybe I missed a sentence or two that explained it as I was reading this before bed and was awakened by it falling on my face more tha Well, ok, 2/3 on the grading scale. I did like several aspects of it, such as the brief insight it gave into the background of the war in Serbia/Kosovo, seen from a ground level... but the overall premise of the book about (sorry, spoiler alert!)the father wanting to regain custody of his son by rape, did not make sense, or ring true. I mean, what was his MOTIVE? Maybe I missed a sentence or two that explained it as I was reading this before bed and was awakened by it falling on my face more than once. Given that I learned about this book in a NYTimes article that gushed over Norwegian Slow-TV (we have for example a 12 hour TV program about the chopping and cutting of wood - it may sound stupid, but it is like visual poetry) but stated that to learn about the \"real Norway\" one could read this novel... well, I had certain expectations. I also had a strong apprehension as to whether or not I as an expatriate writer living in Northern Norway would agree with the Norway portrayed in the writing of another Anglo-expatriate living in Oslo. To answer that, let me say... methinks he presumes too much. Certain aspects of his mild-mannered, understated Norwegian character, Lars, are authentic, but there is a basic flaw in the conceit of presenting Norway through the POV of an 82 year old Jewish American who knows zilch about Norway and is not interested in observing and learning either. On page 1 he wants to shove a hotdog up Lars's nose, because Lars is so... well, Norwegian. Then inexplicably he has an accommodating if not charitable attitude toward Lars in the ensuing 280-some pages. The whole plot revolves around the point that if Norwegians housed guns, and didn't have to travel dozens of kilometres to their remote cabins to fetch a hunting rifle with which to fend off East European thugs, this whole drama could have been solved sooner and without so much bloodshed. In typical Hollywood fashion, the American single-handedly leads the way, with no explanation as to why he has endless amounts of Norwegian cash on him (Norwegians typically have only plastic in their wallets) and can read bus schedules, maps, menus and make his way through the country without knowing a word of the language. My book has WTF scribbled in the margins of many pages where I found the author's statements about Norway to be remiss. The worst of these is when he says that Lars goes hunting with his father... for reindeer! I mean, WTF?! That's like if Lars and father lived in Wisconsin and went hunting cows. He also talks about low-carb diets and Brad Pitt being featured on the cover of Aftenposten, Norway's most non-tabloid of all newspapers. I don't get how that stuff gets past an editor, but also how Miller who lives in Norway can seem so ignorant of his surroundings. Miller's solid knowledge of law enforcement, international conflicts, and history inform his writing, and the parallel he draws to Huck Finn is fun. He has some fine sentences, as when he writes of dementia, \"Without a future the mind turns back in on itself\". Before reading this I saw Amazon reviews ooing and aahing this portrayal of a \"strange and exotic Norway\" and exalting it as a \"dark Norwegian novel written by a non-Norwegian\"... I dunno. I think this novel is very obviously written by a non-Norwegian, and falls into the trap of presuming to have more insight into a culture than it does. ...more<---C>Derek B. Miller</---C>", "Title": "Norwegian by Night"},
