{"Comments": "Synopsis: The orphaned daughter of a sorcerer and a half-demon, Savannah is a terrifyingly powerful young witch who has never been able to resist the chance to throw her magical weight around. But at 21 she knows she needs to grow up and prove to her guardians,<---M> Paige and Lucas</---M>, that she can be a responsible member of their supernatural detective agency. So she jumps at the chance to fly solo, investigating the mysterious deaths of three young women in a nearby factory town as a favour to one of t Synopsis: The orphaned daughter of a sorcerer and a half-demon, Savannah is a terrifyingly powerful young witch who has never been able to resist the chance to throw her magical weight around. But at 21 she knows she needs to grow up and prove to her guardians, Paige and Lucas, that she can be a responsible member of their supernatural detective agency. So she jumps at the chance to fly solo, investigating the mysterious deaths of three young women in a nearby factory town as a favour to one of the agency\u2019s associates. At first glance, the murders look garden-variety human, but on closer inspection signs point to otherworldly stakes. Soon Savannah is in over her head. She\u2019s run off the road and nearly killed, haunted by a mystery stalker, and freaked out when the brother of one of the dead women is murdered when he tries to investigate the crime. To complicate things, something weird is happening to her powers. Pitted against shamans, demons, a voodoo-inflected cult and garden-variety goons, Savannah has to fight to ensure her first case isn\u2019t her last. And she also has to ask for help, perhaps the hardest lesson she\u2019s ever had to learn. Having first met Savannah in Stolen as a teenager. I have been waiting for her book. A witch with powerful supernatural gifts, inherited from her dark and dead witch mother, she is now grown up and working with Paige and Lucas in their supernatural detective agency. I wasn\u2019t sure how I would like her book\u2026but ...hey\u2026 I did\u2026a lot!!!! She\u2019s now a favorite character of mine in this series. She has certainly grown up\u2026 \u201cTall and slender, she wore a midriff-baring black T-shirt, red slim fitting jeans and knee high boots. Her dark hair was gathered back in a hastily tied knot. Oversized dark shades partially obscured her face but showed a strong, fine bone structure, worthy of a runway model. Getting an insight into Savannah\u2019s history made me warm up to her. I would have liked to have seen more of a romance between Savannah and Adam Vasic, the half-demon who is helping her\u2026what a gorgeous guy\u2026. \u201cWe\u2019d been inside for less than five minutes before every girl there had checked out the new arrival.<---F> Adam isn\u2019t drop-dead gorgeous</---F>. He\u2019s cute, though. Seriously cute. Short, wavy dark blond hair, a perpetual tan, and an athletic build. He looks like is a guy that a girl could talk to, someone who\u2019d flirt and make you laugh and look you in the eye while he\u2019s doing it. In other words, he looks like exactly the kind of guy he is, and girls love it.\u201d The new character, Kayla is really interesting and hopefully we get to see her in the next books. Most of the plot has a resolution in the end but there is a cliffhanger\u2026.which I can\u2019t wait to find out more in the next book! <---A>Kelley Armstrong</---A> has written such a spell-binding and exciting series and I cannot get enough!!!1 ...more 2.5 stars, rounded up to a very, very, very generous 3-star rating. Waking The Witch is an installment of the Women of the Otherworld series that I don't see myself ever re-reading. This is sad because I had been looking forward to finally reading a Savannah book for a long time. I remember Savannah a 12-year old spoiled, petulant girl and later a determined, brash, strong, sassy and refreshingly selfish woman and a powerful witch who hates authority, goes after what she wants, can kick ass, desp 2.5 stars, rounded up to a very, very, very generous 3-star rating. Waking The Witch is an installment of the Women of the Otherworld series that I don't see myself ever re-reading. This is sad because I had been looking forward to finally reading a Savannah book for a long time. I remember Savannah a 12-year old spoiled, petulant girl and later a determined, brash, strong, sassy and refreshingly selfish woman and a powerful witch who hates authority, goes after what she wants, can kick ass, despises humans and whose only weakness is her girl crush on Adam. That's who she was as we saw her through the eyes of Paige, Jaime, Elena and other narrators of earlier Otherworld books and that's the way I loved her. The Savannah we get in this novel is pretty much a boring and timid Hope Adams clone who is apparently slightly depressed, has no spunk and no guts to actively pursue the man of her dreams preferring instead to settle for random hookups. Who is this woman? Let me tell you, not someone I care to read about. I expected this book to be about a young woman who would raise mayhem and unleash her super powers. I expected Savannah to go after Adam with all her determination and forces. I expected sparks to fly between the two. No luck here. Now onto the plot itself. You know, I wonder why Armstrong started writing urban fantasy because it seems she prefers writing mysteries. I have nothing against mysteries per se, but if not grounded in paranormal, hers are weak. This book can be considered urban fantasy only because the main character is a witch. Otherwise, substitute cover spells with hiding in dark corners and knockback spells with a good kick, and there is nothing paranormal left in this story. The mystery itself is mediocre at best, because there is absolutely no way for readers to guess who the villain is. Speaking of the villain, the villain's motivation makes hardly any sense, the final result can be achieved much easier without this convoluted plan and murders. Some readers also mention the cliff-hanger ending. Yes, there is one, but it is lame and unnecessary IMO. It surely won't make me lose my sleep. To sum it up, Waking The Witch is a throwaway addition to the series - the mystery is lame, the narrator is boring, and romance is non-existent. But somehow it is written better than the majority of new UF and this is the only excuse for my very generous rating. ...more Starting with this one, the last three books of the series are primarily told through Savannah's point of view. We've seen her since the second book of the series, Stolen, first as a young girl and now finally as an adult. In Stolen she meets Elena and works her way into the wolf pack as a friend, while she is adopted by Paige for the third and fourth books. Everyone know her name, and now she finally gets to go out on her own for her first investigative case. Savannah isn't as compassionate at f Starting with this one, the last three books of the series are primarily told through Savannah's point of view. We've seen her since the second book of the series, Stolen, first as a young girl and now finally as an adult. In Stolen she meets Elena and works her way into the wolf pack as a friend, while she is adopted by Paige for the third and fourth books. Everyone know her name, and now she finally gets to go out on her own for her first investigative case. Savannah isn't as compassionate at first as some of the other heroines, but that's understandable and she grows up me. I do like her dark side contrasting with what you typically expect from a heroine. She has some sarcasm that works depending on the situation, but she's a little too stubborn. She's strong for most of the book, but something happens which weakens her. That's annoying for awhile but it ties into the main story eventually. Armstrong not only switched point of view here, but Savannah is in a completely new small-town setting in order to work the case. Adam comes around, but overall this book is unusually isolated from regular characters. We get mentions through phone calls but that's mainly it. Adam shows up but doesn't excite yet as a companion, although he's sweet at the end. This was one of the book's biggest disappointments, too. Finally we get Adam, who charmed me in the third book and who has had to wait his turn for over six books. When he shows on page there's nothing other than friendship, little tension, and it just doesn't deliver like I was expecting. There's a sad turn in this book that keeps the story personal. The actual investigation intrigued me and kept me hooked as there was a legit mystery to solve, even if it wasn't her strongest. I sort of guessed the ending twist with the betrayal, but it didn't detract from my enjoyment. Not the best of the series, but certainly worth reading. It's a book that shouldn't' be skipped as it lays the groundwork for the final two books and the major ending story arch of the series. ...more This is Savannah's book. I was so excited to read it, and it didn't disappoint at all. It was everything I expected from her and more! I don't want to put a spoiler warning on this, so I'll try to be careful not give too much away. At this point, Savannah is 21. She has been working for Paige and Lucas for 5 years, and now they are away on vacation and Adam is away at a conference, and a case comes up that sounds easy and safe enough for her to investigate her first case by herself. She follows J This is Savannah's book. I was so excited to read it, and it didn't disappoint at all. It was everything I expected from her and more! I don't want to put a spoiler warning on this, so I'll try to be careful not give too much away. At this point, Savannah is 21. She has been working for Paige and Lucas for 5 years, and now they are away on vacation and Adam is away at a conference, and a case comes up that sounds easy and safe enough for her to investigate her first case by herself. She follows Jessie, who's a friend of Lucas', to a nearby town to investigate three murders of girls that seem to have a supernatural connection. While there she discovers a bunch of women living in a commune and whose leader might be a suspect, another witch married to the main suspect in the killings, one of the victims' brother who comes from Dallas to investigate and actually goes on a date with Savannah twice, a witch hunter who they thought would just be a legend, and many more adventures. What I liked: Savannah's personality, as usual, she's straight-forward, spunky, fun, confident and just adorable. And she riders a bike! Adam's relationship with her is so cute! I loved hearing all the phone calls, the teasing, the memories of vacations they've had together and things they do for each other. And how she keeps burning his clothes with the sparks from her fingers! I liked Michael also. :( There was a lot of action and mystery in this book! The story kept building and twisting and getting more complicated, with more possibilities as we went along. And the greatest thing is I never would've thought the way things turned out in the end! I started suspecting, but for different reasons. Savannah has to battle with being Eve's daughter or doing the right thing. And the caring that Adam shows for her at the end *tender* He was there for her, protected her, risked his life for her, yelled at her, confronted her and didn't let her get away! And the actual ending... Oh.My.God! I have to read the next book as soon as it comes out, and that's not soon enough, to find out what's going to happen. ...more Hi, I'm a witch blah blah blah energy bolt blah blah motorcycle blah hot guy blah blah blah I'm 21 and super pretty don't you want to be me or do me blah blah blah sacrifice and dead girls blah blah small town blah investigate blah blah more hot guy talk blah blah blah I'm a clever witch, actually, and I solve the crime blah blah motorcycle blah. Get the drift? I can reduce this book to a 2 minute powerpoint presentation in which there are only 3 actual headings for discussion- motorcycle, witche Hi, I'm a witch blah blah blah energy bolt blah blah motorcycle blah hot guy blah blah blah I'm 21 and super pretty don't you want to be me or do me blah blah blah sacrifice and dead girls blah blah small town blah investigate blah blah more hot guy talk blah blah blah I'm a clever witch, actually, and I solve the crime blah blah motorcycle blah. Get the drift? I can reduce this book to a 2 minute powerpoint presentation in which there are only 3 actual headings for discussion- motorcycle, witches and hot guys. end of book. There was nothing to draw the reader into the murders of the girls, no details about the way the murders were done to make us feel bad for these women, and we are introduced to the daughter of one of them far too late to make her a human being because the author has no idea how to convey emotion or create any kind of emotional tether. The entire book is shameless and superficial. If it hadn't glossed over, well, everything and then just ended, I would have at least given it 3 stars. But it wasn't serious and it wasn't fun. It was just a bummer all around by a talentless woman trying to cash in on the paranormal detective romance fad. And don't judge me. Goodreads has kinda forced me to read a few things I never would have touched otherwise, just to see what the buzz was about. Ok? I'm guilty of actually wanting to like things like this. ...more Savannah, the teenage witch, is no longer a teenager. She's twenty-one and minding the detective agency while her guardians, Paige and Lucas, are on vacation when she gets the opportunity she's been waiting for - a case of her own. I enjoyed Savannah as the narrator in <+++>Waking the Witch</+++>, and I enjoyed watching the investigation of the possibly ritual linked murders of three young women unfold and watching Savannah pick up clues that the local police have missed. But as the story progresses there a Savannah, the teenage witch, is no longer a teenager. She's twenty-one and minding the detective agency while her guardians, Paige and Lucas, are on vacation when she gets the opportunity she's been waiting for - a case of her own. I enjoyed Savannah as the narrator in <+++>Waking the Witch</+++>, and I enjoyed watching the investigation of the possibly ritual linked murders of three young women unfold and watching Savannah pick up clues that the local police have missed. But as the story progresses there are definitely some sad moments - so this is not a feel good read. Even though Savannah gets a pretty good handle as to what's been going on with the killings, Waking the Witch leaves the story without real resolution. In fact author Armstrong gives Savannah's world a good hard shakeup at the end because as it turns out this is just the first of three books starring Savannah, and we readers are left with a metaphorical 'to be continued' when all is said and done. ...more We first meet Savannah in Stolen , where she is a young witch under Ruth Winterbourne\u2019s guardianship. Savannah has grown up. Savannah is now 21 years old, 6 feet tall, and has inherited her mother\u2019s good looks. Savannah works as an investigator for Paige and Lucas\u2019 agency. While Paige and Lucas are enjoying a Hawaiian vacation, Savannah gets a case and decides to solve it on her own. Someone is murdering young women in a small town. The murders appear to be ritualistic and the list of suspects se We first meet Savannah in Stolen , where she is a young witch under Ruth Winterbourne\u2019s guardianship. Savannah has grown up. Savannah is now 21 years old, 6 feet tall, and has inherited her mother\u2019s good looks. Savannah works as an investigator for Paige and Lucas\u2019 agency. While Paige and Lucas are enjoying a Hawaiian vacation, Savannah gets a case and decides to solve it on her own. Someone is murdering young women in a small town. The murders appear to be ritualistic and the list of suspects seems to get larger. The book reads more like a mystery than an urban fantasy. Many unexpected things happened. And the ending \u2013 I don\u2019t remember Kelley Armstrong treating her fans to a cliffhanger before. The only thing that I didn\u2019t like about the book was the amount of time spent describing all the spell casting. It felt a little repetitive. Savannah is a very likable character. She is young, beautiful, smart, and resourceful. Savannah is a very capable and powerful witch. She is grounded and down to earth, despite her supernatural talents. She tends to be a little too independent, resulting is several dangerous encounters and a few uh-oh moments. And yes, there is an appearance by Adam, not as a romantic interest, more of a protector. I\u2019m looking forward to the next book in the series. I hope that there is more Savannah and Adam. ...more This is my first time reading a book by Kelley Armstrong. I know, crazy, right? I've had her YA book The Summoning sitting on my bookshelf for four months, and I still haven't gotten around to reading it. I was lucky enough to be offered a chance to review a copy of Waking the Witch, the latest installment in Armstrong's Women of the Otherworld series. I jumped at the chance, thinking that it would finally give me a little needed motivation to try an author that I've been meaning to read for a lo This is my first time reading a book by Kelley Armstrong. I know, crazy, right? I've had her YA book The Summoning sitting on my bookshelf for four months, and I still haven't gotten around to reading it. I was lucky enough to be offered a chance to review a copy of Waking the Witch, the latest installment in Armstrong's Women of the Otherworld series. I jumped at the chance, thinking that it would finally give me a little needed motivation to try an author that I've been meaning to read for a long time. So, how did I feel about the book? Well, all of you who've been telling me to read Kelley Armstrong can go gloat now. Yes, I've just became her latest fan. Armstrong has a great writing style, and she sure knows how to unfold a plot in a way that keeps the reader interested! Once I got into Waking the Witch, I had a hard time putting it down. I liked that it was a combination of a mystery/detective story with urban fantasy elements thrown in. It kind of reminded me of the television series Moonlight or Blood Ties, except with witches instead of vampires. The main character, Savannah, was very well-written. I loved that Armstrong chose to write Waking the Witch from the point of view of a twenty-one year-old. Since, at twenty, I'm really close to the age of the main character, I might be biased, but I think that the age serves as a sort of a tradition point between an \"old teenager\" and a \"young adult.\" Savannah definitely seemed like an adult throughout a lot of the book, but you could also see glimpses of the teenager that still lingered there. Because of this, I really fell in love with her character. I also liked that Savannah was independent and didn't spend the majority of the book throwing herself at some guy. Don't worry, there's romantic tension, but Savannah's an individual, and while she shows interest in men, she doesn't spend the entire book obsessing over them. She spends a lot of time focusing on her case and trying to prove that she's competent and talented as a private investigator. I have to admit: I'm really excited about reading more from The Otherworld series. I like that you can pick up any of the books individually and not be completely lost. This is the eleventh book, and I haven't read any of the others in the series, but I still understood and enjoyed the plot. I'm looking forward to seeing more of the story behind some of the other minor characters that appeared in Waking the Witch! In a Sentence Kelley Armstrong's latest novel has just about everything a fan of urban fantasy could want. ...more I'm a fan of Kelley Armstrong's Women of the Otherworld series, page-turning paranormal mysteries with romantic elements told from the first person point of view of a female supernatural: a werewolf, witch, angel, necromancer, half-demon... In this case it was <---C>Savannah Levine</---C>, daughter and ward of two previous protagonists. She's a witch and a private investigator. For quite a while I was happily being pulled along by the mystery. Armstrong has a deft style and strong world-building that sucks y I'm a fan of Kelley Armstrong's Women of the Otherworld series, page-turning paranormal mysteries with romantic elements told from the first person point of view of a female supernatural: a werewolf, witch, angel, necromancer, half-demon... In this case it was Savannah Levine, daughter and ward of two previous protagonists. She's a witch and a private investigator. For quite a while I was happily being pulled along by the mystery. Armstrong has a deft style and strong world-building that sucks you in, good plotting and pacing, and above all, an ability to make you care about her characters. It's what made her a favorite author of mine--one of those few that I go read as soon as a new book by her is on the shelves. All that is true of this book, and I like Savannah and her character arc in the book. But this is the first time I've been disappointed by Armstrong--by the last line on the last page... Cliffhanger. Not something Armstrong has done at the end of the previous Otherworld books, and I went back and checked. Yes, it's a series, but previously they'd worked well as stand alones, and when I reached the end of this one, I wanted to throw the book against the wall. Mind you, I'll be reading that next book in the series as soon as it comes out... ...more This was exactly what I was hoping from from a Savannah book! And the big climax brought all the magic I imagined we would get with Savannah... If you're a reader of teh Women of the Otherworld series, definitely grab this one, and if you're new to the series, you won't be lost jumping in with Waking the Witch... Fun read! :) A good book is like driving to the beach. It might be the greatest drive ever...but if there is no beach at the end you feel let down. I really enjoyed everything about this book...might have even rated it 5 Stars, but I didn't get the beach so 3 Stars it is. \u2018Waking the Witch\u2019 is the eleventh book in Kelley Armstrong\u2019s ridiculously popular paranormal series, \u2018Women of the Otherworld\u2019. It is also the first book to be narrated by long-running, fan-favourite character Savannah Levine. Savannah\u2019s guardians, Paige Winterbourne and Lucas Cortez, are on a much-needed Hawaiian vacation. . . and while away Savannah is in charge of their Private Investigation business. So it happens that when telekinetic-demon and fellow PI, Jesse Aanes, walks through the door \u2018Waking the Witch\u2019 is the eleventh book in Kelley Armstrong\u2019s ridiculously popular paranormal series, \u2018Women of the Otherworld\u2019. It is also the first book to be narrated by long-running, fan-favourite character Savannah Levine. Savannah\u2019s guardians, Paige Winterbourne and Lucas Cortez, are on a much-needed Hawaiian vacation. . . and while away Savannah is in charge of their Private Investigation business. So it happens that when telekinetic-demon and fellow PI, Jesse Aanes, walks through the door with a burning-hot case and too much on his plate it\u2019s Savannah who he hand-balls it to. A triple homicide in a sleepy town called Columbus has the townsfolk somewhat spooked and pointing fingers at the local Loathario and a cookie-cult complete with a charismatic-pervy male \u2018leader\u2019. Savannah is on her first solo case, and befriends a little girl whose mother was one of the three female victims. Savannah also cosies up to an out-of-state detective called Michael Kennedy, who happens to be the brother of one of the murdered women. But as Savannah digs and delves she discovers that the murders may be a case of Columbus not suffering a witch to live. . . I am a huge fan of Kelley Armstrong\u2019s \u2018Women of the Otherworld\u2019 series. I love the immersive paranormal universe she has created, and the cast of strong female characters that she has introduced readers to. Armstrong\u2019s series is one of the most popular and long-running urban fantasies out there, and for good reason. Ms. Armstrong effortlessly intertwines fantasy and mystery, with healthy doses or paranormal romance. But it\u2019s safe to say that devout \u2018Otherworld\u2019 fans were at once sceptical and curious for Savannah\u2019s first narrated story. Savannah first appeared in the second novel, \u2018Stolen\u2019, and has had both main and minor roles in many books since. She is the one character of the \u2018Otherworld\u2019 series who readers have read an almost full character-arc of. We were there when her mother died, when she discovered her true paternity and lashed out at the truth, when she was a bratty handful for Paige and in her calmer years when she finally accepted Paige and Lucas\u2019s devotion. . . Savannah has always been a character of extremes \u2013 capable of great compassion for those she trusts and loves, and willing to inflict bouts of rage tempered with severe magic upon her enemies. Being the product of a witch mother, sorcerer father and with a sprinkling of demon blood thrown in Savannah is perhaps the most powerful of all the supernatural \u2018Otherworld\u2019 characters; \u201cI know who you are.\u201d Her lips twisted as she got to her feet. \u201cDaughter of Eve Levine and Kristof Nast. Foster daughter of Paige Winterbourne and Lucas Cortez. The golden girl of the supernatural world. Under the protections of two Cabals and the interracial council.\u201d \u201cActually, one Cabal. Thomas Nast refuses to recognize me. That\u2019ll change when my brother takes over, but in the meantime, I've got the werewolf Pack. For protection, I\u2019ll take them over the Nasts any day.\u201d \u201cI suppose you think that makes you special.\u201d \u201cUh, yeah. . .\u201d Savannah\u2019s long-standing appearance in the \u2018Otherworld\u2019 series is both a help and a hindrance to her narrating her own book. On the one hand, fans have seen Savannah at her brattiest worst \u2013 from the time she was 12 right through to her stint as an angry teenager. . . and now at the tender age of 21 and only just tapping into her powers and flexing her independence. On the other hand, because Savannah has been a constant throughout the series it is high-time that fans read her 360-degree turn-around. \u2018Waking the Witch\u2019 has had mixed reviews, and I think I know why. . . but for me this book was a wonderful introduction to Savannah as a grown woman. She is coming into her powers, getting to know herself and Kelley Armstrong is laying groundwork for fans to read the last-stretch of Savannah\u2019s story. \u2018Waking the Witch\u2019 is primarily a whodunit murder-mystery. And really, it\u2019s one of Kelley Armstrong\u2019s finest pieces of intricate writing. The book is drenched in noir and heavy with magical foreboding; complete with red herrings, curveballs and a twist ending that will leave you gasping. It is brilliant! Particularly because Armstrong combines a small-town mystery within the big supernatural universe to make for one layered and knotted plot. . . But I can understand that the heavy mystery element may put-off some fans. For one thing, the \u2018mystery\u2019 is very dependent on fans knowing (or remembering) the plots of past \u2018Otherworld\u2019 books. This may be a problem in a series in which the narrators change, and fans have been known to only read the books narrated by their favourite characters. \u2018Waking the Witch\u2019, unlike most all \u2018Otherworld\u2019 books, can\u2019t be read as a stand-alone without the rest of the series as reference. An understandable grumbling-point for those fans who were left in the dark to those delicate past-book references. . . but for someone who has stuck with the \u2018Otherworld\u2019 series for 10 books, it all came to a head in \u2018Waking the Witch\u2019 and I savoured every intricacy. Another possible annoyance for \u2018Otherworld\u2019 fans may be the lack of romance in \u2018Waking the Witch\u2019. . . this is a double-edged sword, me thinks. Yes, all other \u2018Otherworld\u2019 books have been written with heavy doses of paranormal romance. But you have to remember that Kelley Armstrong has planned to have Savannah narrate books 12 and 13 (bringing her to the possible end of her publishing contract) and I think she is setting up an over-arching, slow-burning romance for Savannah. Savannah\u2019s long-term crush is Adam Vasic. Adam is 33 to Savannah\u2019s 21 \u2013 but he was a part of the rescue team who saved her in \u2018Stolen\u2019 and has been a staple of her romantic fantasies ever since. Savannah is convinced that Adam is her soul-mate, but he has never shown her anything but friendship. In \u2018Waking the Witch\u2019, Adam comes on board to help Savannah in her investigation and he seems to be accepting her sudden transformation from 12-year-old to kick-ass 21-year-old PI in his mind\u2019s eye. I think Adam and Savannah are each other\u2019s HEA. . . but it will take a while to get there, for various reasons (least of which is Adam getting used to the idea of Savannah as a woman and not a little girl). I think the romance is there in \u2018Waking the Witch\u2019, but only as groundwork for more heated encounters in book 12 \u2018Spell Bound\u2019 and TBA book #13. Still, fans who have gotten used to heated and instantaneous couplings between Clayton Danvers and Elena Michaels, and Paige and Lucas, will no doubt feel a twinge of disappointment that Savannah\u2019s romance is more slow-burning. But I think it will be worth it when she and Adam finally \u2018ignite\u2019. I hear fans complaints about \u2018Waking the Witch\u2019, which has had very mixed-reviews. But I think this is one of the best \u2018Otherworld\u2019 instalments yet. The mystery is superbly noir, and Savannah Levine as our heroine is a delicious conundrum. On the one hand she is disturbingly powerful for one so young, and constantly straddling the line between white and black magic. But as she proves in \u2018Waking\u2019, Savannah is a formidable foe when you hurt those she loves. . . I, for one, am completely fascinated by her as a character \u2013 mostly because it feels like she can tip the scales either way. Savannah is at the fork in the road where she has to decide whether to be \u2018good\u2019 or \u2018evil\u2019 and fans are along for the ride. . . ...more I really enjoyed reading from Savanah's pov. I figured out the person who was doing the killing on Savanah's case. Well, the body. I did not know on the little girls mom. I hope we see more of Savanah and Adam budding romance. Waking the Witch by Kelley Armstrong REVIEWED 8/24/2010 by Stephanie Takes-Desbiens at http://fangswandsandfairydust.blogspo... Purchased August 8, 2010 Read 8/23 & 24 Kindle Edition File Size: 448 KB Print Length: 320 pages Publisher: DUTTON ADULT (July 27, 2010) Sold by: Penguin Publishing This is book eleven in the Otherworld Series. Savannah is sassy, maybe a little arrogant, young, powerful, headstrong, makes mistakes and feels remorse, is really good at her job, knows how to protect herself phys Waking the Witch by Kelley Armstrong REVIEWED 8/24/2010 by Stephanie Takes-Desbiens at http://fangswandsandfairydust.blogspo... Purchased August 8, 2010 Read 8/23 & 24 Kindle Edition File Size: 448 KB Print Length: 320 pages Publisher: DUTTON ADULT (July 27, 2010) Sold by: Penguin Publishing This is book eleven in the Otherworld Series. Savannah is sassy, maybe a little arrogant, young, powerful, headstrong, makes mistakes and feels remorse, is really good at her job, knows how to protect herself physically and magically. She is all these things but her youth and her headstrong attitude are her Achilles's heel. Having worked in her guardians' shadow since she was a minor, Savannah is ready to break out on her own, and the opportunity presents itself when her friend, co-worker and major crush Adam's pal Jesse comes around to get help with a case with occult overtones in a town nearby. Is she in over her head? Not at first but complications develop when another investigator gets under her skin (in a good way) and when it turns our the town has some other magic going on. In this book the best developed character is Savannah. What I liked about her was her strength and her soft spots. Sometimes she underestimates her strength, and other times she is over confident. She is vulnerable to kids with crappy or neglectful parents because of her past. She thinks she is more mature than she is and makes some rash decisions that backfire on her. She thinks she has it all figured out, and that she is over Adam's indifference to her as a woman. She thinks she has the people she interviews all sussed out, but they keep surprising her. Written in the first person, we see others through Savannah's lens. The daughter of one of the victims in this mystery, Kayla, comes across as a vulnerable Savannah-without-the-magic. Michael Kennedy, police detective brother of one of the other victims comes to her as a romantic replacement for Adam and she sizes the Michael up against him. It is clear there are no substitutions for Adam in her heart. Savannah lives in a Savannah-centric world; super-gifted, well-off, fearless. But of course she isn't all grown-up and her foibles put her and others at risk, when the worst happens, she blames herself. Armstrong keeps the pace of the book going from the start. The action starts within the first five pages, and really keeps going except for when the girl is eating or sleeping. The story has lots of twists and turns as well as a few red herrings. Why was the high-school teacher introduced? Could he be the perp? How about the chief of police? The Waitress, Lorraine? And, the solution to this mystery is as complex as Savannah's personality. I don't know whether I have ever read such a complex ending to a mystery. The question is whether Savannah and her pals can survive what happens. Your will hope they do because you will want more of Savannah and Adam in future books. Not much in the way of romantic heat, but Ms. Armstrong can make necking pretty hot. The real action here is in the plot. I highly recommend Waking the Witch. Note: this is book eleven in this series, but even without prior knowledge it is pretty easy to follow. Armstrong's web site offers a character guide and a guide to the demon-world. Also, this is the first book with Savannah as the narrator, so it would naturally stand up on its own. Ms. Armstrong has three kids and lives in Ontario, Canada. She received a degree in Psychology and then studied computer programming. Having been a programmer myself (before Windows was a glimmer in Bill Gates eye) I can tell you that programming prepares one for endless writing and rewriting. Currently Ms. Armstrong writes and parents full-time. ...more Waking the Witch is book 11 in Kelley Armstrong\u2019s Women of the Otherworld series and marks the beginning of the end. When twenty-one year old, Savannah Levine sees the opportunity to prove she\u2019s ready for more than just administrative work at Cortez and Winterbourne Investigations she takes it. The case leads her to a small town to investigate the possible supernatural connections in the deaths of three young women. For a small town, it\u2019s full of suspicious characters and they all seem to have s Waking the Witch is book 11 in Kelley Armstrong\u2019s Women of the Otherworld series and marks the beginning of the end. When twenty-one year old, Savannah Levine sees the opportunity to prove she\u2019s ready for more than just administrative work at Cortez and Winterbourne Investigations she takes it. The case leads her to a small town to investigate the possible supernatural connections in the deaths of three young women. For a small town, it\u2019s full of suspicious characters and they all seem to have supernatural connections. I have adored this series since I stumbled across Bitten back in 2004. So, I was incredibly sad when I heard Armstrong was going to end it at book 13 and disappointed that she planned to finish with Savannah as the main character. In her early appearances, Savannah was extremely self-involved and drove me crazy anytime she was on the page. However, by the end of the novel I was fully on-board with her as the narrator. It was nice to see how much Savannah has matured from the twelve year old we met in Stolen . She's also given some interesting conflicts that I'm looking forward to seeing play out in the next couple of books. Aside from establishing Savannah as a main character, Waking the Witch also works to lay the foundation for the overarching plot of the last two novels. At times, this would overshadow the main plot involving the mystery of the dead women but I still really enjoyed the story. I also kind of guessed what was happening based on how the short story Amityville Horrible had ended. Despite this, the novel was a fun ride. If you\u2019re going to pick-up Waking the Witch , I would recommend reading the short story Counterfeit Magic first. It acts as a nice prequel and (for people who have been following the entire series) it explains why Paige and Lucas are MIA in this one. ...more WAKING THE WITCH (Women of the Otherworld #11) by Kelley Armstrong WAKING THE WITCH is the 11th full-length storyline in Kelley Armstrong\u2019 s Women of the Otherworld series. The final three books in the WOTO series focuses on the now adult Savannah Levine and the loss of her witch powers, the investigation into the dark arts and the rise of demons that want to take over the world. Savannah was first introduced in STOLEN-the second storyline in Kelley\u2019s WOTO series. A then 12 year old orphaned witch WAKING THE WITCH (Women of the Otherworld #11) by Kelley Armstrong WAKING THE WITCH is the 11th full-length storyline in Kelley Armstrong\u2019 s Women of the Otherworld series. The final three books in the WOTO series focuses on the now adult Savannah Levine and the loss of her witch powers, the investigation into the dark arts and the rise of demons that want to take over the world. Savannah was first introduced in STOLEN-the second storyline in Kelley\u2019s WOTO series. A then 12 year old orphaned witch, daughter of Dark Witch Eve Levine and Cabal Sorcerer Kristof Nash, Savannah struggled with her powers, her guardians and her attraction and love for half-demon Adam Vasic. Now a grown woman, Savannah knows who she wants but there are too many road blocks standing in her way. Savannah is now a beautiful 21year old woman, and in this particular storyline, she agrees to investigate the mysterious deaths of two women, the only problem, the deaths are some-how supernaturally related and Savannah will suffer the consequences in more ways than one. A friend will die, another will seemingly pull away and her powers will be part of a bargain. WAKING THE WITCH is the beginning of the end for the Women of the Otherworld series. The final three storylines follow Savannah as she must literally prevent the rise of Lucifer and the end of the world. If you are a fan of Kelley\u2019s werewolves, the final three stories are a major departure. At one point I thought Kelley was preparing for the spin-off series featuring Savannah as the lead character when the entire focus of the last three books was Savannah. see all of my reviews at : thereadingcafe.com ...more I thoroughly enjoyed Savannah's book! I remember being unsure about her as narrator when I first learned she was getting a trilogy to end the series (for now!), but honestly she does some real growing up in this book. While I don't think she's over her prejudice towards humans, I kinda feel like she taken steps towards overcoming it, thanks to Michael, Paula and Kayla. She's also learning to stop running from her problems and to accept help (eventually) instead of insisting on fighting her own b I thoroughly enjoyed Savannah's book! I remember being unsure about her as narrator when I first learned she was getting a trilogy to end the series (for now!), but honestly she does some real growing up in this book. While I don't think she's over her prejudice towards humans, I kinda feel like she taken steps towards overcoming it, thanks to Michael, Paula and Kayla. She's also learning to stop running from her problems and to accept help (eventually) instead of insisting on fighting her own battles. I think towards the end something significant changes between her and Adam as well. She was actually willing to sacrifice herself for the good of total strangers, something she wouldn't have even thought of doing a few years ago. The plot was interesting too and I'd never have guessed through the book at who one of the killers were, we also seem to have stumbled across the elusive, believed to be a myth, witch hunter as well which should prove interesting as the trilogy continues. I love how Adam doesn't give up on her and follows her even when she lashes out at him and tells him to stay away. She has a mini-meltdown at the end but I think she needed it to let out everything she's been holding in and move forward. It's also shown her she has a true friend in Adam who'll take the worst she can dish out and still stand by her, just what every girl wants! ;-) The ending is a bit of a surprise that you don't see coming either but will be significant in the rest of the trilogy. ...more Well well well, if you are a fan of this series this will not dissappoint. I realise that some reviewers have not been as pleased with this book, it lacks one of the usual elements that accompany this series. The relationship progression that normally occurs for the narrator, which in this case is Savannah - a character we met in the second book of the series \"Stolen\" she was 12 in that book and is now aged 21. Although, she seems older than her years due to a highly volatile, supernatural life! Well well well, if you are a fan of this series this will not dissappoint. I realise that some reviewers have not been as pleased with this book, it lacks one of the usual elements that accompany this series. The relationship progression that normally occurs for the narrator, which in this case is Savannah - a character we met in the second book of the series \"Stolen\" she was 12 in that book and is now aged 21. Although, she seems older than her years due to a highly volatile, supernatural life! Savannah may have fine tuned her supernatural skills early in life but this novel sees her develop maturity on other levels. It's an awakening for her that she only realises her self as she progresses through the challenges set for her by insisting on going solo, for her first case. This book is setting the scene for Savannah's relationships to build, and bearing in mind that she is only 21, I feel it was appropriate that this element was not expoloited. Savannah grows up in the pages of book 11, this was the more important focus. Savannah is one of my favourite characters in this series, the cliff hanger definitely suggests there is more to come with her story as the focus. I am eagerly awaiting book 12! ...more CLIFFHANGER ENDING !!!!!!!!!!!! ARGUH NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO ! it was so intense, it was just almost there and then it hit the fan and .......the end. Crispy Hell, I want to know what happens and I don't have the next book yet. Savannah has grown up to be a big girl with big girl problems and a dark past that haunts her to this day. She gets her first case to solve on her own well kind of on her own men keep popping up. Her lust for Adam is still not going anywhere but her lust for another boy/ma CLIFFHANGER ENDING !!!!!!!!!!!! ARGUH NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO ! it was so intense, it was just almost there and then it hit the fan and .......the end. Crispy Hell, I want to know what happens and I don't have the next book yet. Savannah has grown up to be a big girl with big girl problems and a dark past that haunts her to this day. She gets her first case to solve on her own well kind of on her own men keep popping up. Her lust for Adam is still not going anywhere but her lust for another boy/man is a Detective from Dallas is heating up the look out. Then there is her new semi partner on this case and he's not so bad himself. Savannah does her best, she follows the leads and in this town it's not easy, small town police don't care for her much nor do several of the town folk. Things go from hassled to disastrous quickly, lives end and others are changed forever. What a charged read this was I was totally cheering for Savannah. On the edge of my seat. i was not expecting to like this book at all, I've not liked her as a character before. I was wrong, she's good. Now if she'd just do what want her to do...... ...more Savannah is trying a PI case on her own. She runs into a lot of problems & faces a lot of her own demons. Adam is there for support & to jump in a help if needed but she does not want his help. Savannah wants to probe that she can do it on her own. I was pulled into this story. I loved it. I am a little disappointed with the ending because I was left with a cliff hanger which makes me want to jump right into the next book. I know that is the point but I wanted to take a little break from Savannah is trying a PI case on her own. She runs into a lot of problems & faces a lot of her own demons. Adam is there for support & to jump in a help if needed but she does not want his help. Savannah wants to probe that she can do it on her own. I was pulled into this story. I loved it. I am a little disappointed with the ending because I was left with a cliff hanger which makes me want to jump right into the next book. I know that is the point but I wanted to take a little break from this series. I will read Spellbound & Thirteen very soon to finish off this series. I have loved most of these beautiful characters that Kelley Armstrong has created. ...more I honestly don't remember Samantha from previous books (it's been years since I read the earlier ones) so I had no preconceived notions about her and therefore thoroughly enjoyed this book. This book totally departs from the whole werewolf thing and takes on witches and Savannah in particular. I liked it and Savannah, Adam and Kayla. I hope Kayla is someone we see again as I really liked her and hated the way everything ended for her in particular. I'll be hitting the next installment shortly to I honestly don't remember Samantha from previous books (it's been years since I read the earlier ones) so I had no preconceived notions about her and therefore thoroughly enjoyed this book. This book totally departs from the whole werewolf thing and takes on witches and Savannah in particular. I liked it and Savannah, Adam and Kayla. I hope Kayla is someone we see again as I really liked her and hated the way everything ended for her in particular. I'll be hitting the next installment shortly to get back into Savannah's game. ...more From an ARC Kelley Armstrong has been one of my favorite authors ever since I picked up Dimestore Magic. After I read that novel, the next time I went to the bookstore I looked for other novels by her. I had seen the phrase \"Women of the Otherworld\" on the cover, and that gave me a clue that there might be other books....that, and the page with the other book titles lists. LOL. I found Stolen, Bitten and Industrial Magic. I believe I read them out of order, but since two out of the first four boo From an ARC Kelley Armstrong has been one of my favorite authors ever since I picked up Dimestore Magic. After I read that novel, the next time I went to the bookstore I looked for other novels by her. I had seen the phrase \"Women of the Otherworld\" on the cover, and that gave me a clue that there might be other books....that, and the page with the other book titles lists. LOL. I found Stolen, Bitten and Industrial Magic. I believe I read them out of order, but since two out of the first four books were about Clay and Elena, and the other two were of Paige and Lucas, it didn't seem to matter too much if I read one before the other. It all seemed to work out. Because of all of this out of order reading, I first read about Savannah, this novel's main character in Dimestore Magic. I enjoyed the rather smartassed character of the teen-aged, very powerful young witch. Throughout a lot of the coming books we get to read about Savannah, but Waking the Witch is told from Savannah's point of view.Savannah is now 21 years old, and is trying to remain a good person, but it's evident that she doesn't quite think like Paige (her guardian). In fact, one of the things I like about this series is that Ms Armstrong seems to be able to write first person from a variety of character's POV, and each star of each book has her own \"voice\". Savannah's voice is sarcastic, young and assertive. She's not quite human either, and therefore doesn't have quite the same ethics or morals that humans are supposed to have, though she does work at maintaining some ethics. In Waking the Witch, Paige and Lucas have finally taken a long vacation. They own an investigations company (Cortez-Winterbourne Investigations) and Savannah has worked as \"executive assistant slave\" to them for a few years. She's been more than ready to take on a case on her own and finally gets a chance when a half-demon PI named Jesse brings a case for Lucas to look over. Savannah ends up taking the case, agreeing to do the \"legwork\" while Jesse finishes up another case he's been working on. Savannah goes to a small town, driving there on her hog (a motorcycle, not a bespelled pig - LOL) which of course, brings her to the attention of the town sheriff, as well as a few other townspeople. What follows is an interesting mix of urban fantasy and an old-fashioned detective novel. Three women have been murdered in two separate incidents. There are questions about whether the murders are connected, though some are trying to make it seem that they aren't similar at all - though the women were all found in the same spot. There is no lack of suspects either. Suddenly, Savannah meets another man who is also trying to investigate, and the police chief at first wants nothing to do with either PIs. Someone also starts taking shots at Savannah - dangerous things keep happening to her. There are the beginnings of romantic feelings, without overwhelming the story - nicely handled. I find that I still enjoy Savannah's personality - both the grown-up personality in this book, and the previous books' teen-age Savannah. The story is entertaining. There are some very colorful characters, a commune, a small girl that is more mature than some of the townspeople, some intense situations and some comical situations. The dialogue is good, with snarky bits between some of the characters and some touching dialogue with the youngest character in the book. It's been a while since I read a detective style novel - every urban fantasy always has a bit of mystery to them, but this one focused on the detecting of a mystery, with Savannah working out clues, motives, etc. Kind of reminded me of an up-to-date, rather dangerous magical Nancy Drew, but with edge. I liked the mix of urban fantasy and detective novel vibe. As with most of the novels in this series, this can be read as a standalone novel - but there are 10 other books with differing main characters and narration styles. I have enjoyed all of Kelley Armstrong's books - some better than others, yet all of them are interesting and entertaining. ...more This review contains spoilers in paragraphs three and four. Be warned! I admit that I put off reading the last three books in this series for ages, due to the fact that I cannot stand the sight of the whiny brat that is Savannah. She caused nothing but grief for Paige with her whiny tantrums and bad behaviour, shows complete ingratitude to anyone who tries to help her and proves incapable of looking after herself on a normal day. So now in this book, Savannah decides to take on her first case, th This review contains spoilers in paragraphs three and four. Be warned! I admit that I put off reading the last three books in this series for ages, due to the fact that I cannot stand the sight of the whiny brat that is Savannah. She caused nothing but grief for Paige with her whiny tantrums and bad behaviour, shows complete ingratitude to anyone who tries to help her and proves incapable of looking after herself on a normal day. So now in this book, Savannah decides to take on her first case, the ritual killing of three women. With help from investigator Jesse, Michael the cop brother of one of the victims and Kayla the nine year old daughter of another victim, Savannah looks for anyone who wanted the girls dead. I found this book to be boring and repetitive, and it is more like a crime novel(a genre I dislike) than a paranormal novel. Savannah looks at all the suspects-the strange cult leaders, the married lover of one victim, his psycho wife, Kayla's gran etc. We get some driving around and some questions then Savannah flirts with Michael and mopes about Adam. Then we visit the cult again and have another run in with Cody and his wife. More flirting and moping. Out to the cult again. It just keeps going round in circles with Savannah having no clue how to solve the crime. Why do we need to visit the same people over and over and over to the point where I wanted to scream? The characters were one dimensional and held little interest. Savannah may be 21 but she doesn't act any more mature than when we first met her. She arrives in town as a motorcycle sex babe and flirts with the first hot guy she sees, using her feminine wiles to get attention. Then she doesn't like the way the cops and everyone else don't take her seriously. So she pouts and complains about it as usual. Savannah feels she'll never have Adam so she gets cosy with the cop she is working with. This relationship feels forced to me and there seemed little point in introducing it, just to kill Michael off halfway through the book. Michael's death might make sense to the plot but having a 2 minute relationship with him and Savannah was a waste of time really. The cops, as all small town cops are portrayed, are of course sexist dumb asses who keep getting in the way and arresting the wrong people. Cody and his wife are like the evil pantomime baddies, thought they are more interesting than any of the cult members. The plot was so OBVIOUS. I knew pretty much straight away that Jesse was involved in some way. He was never with Savannah when her life was threatened or when Michael was lured to his death, and Cody was far too obviously bad to be the killer. Jesse was always checking in with Savannah to find out what she was doing that day or what she had found out which made it easier to set her up. As soon as Savannah mentions recurring headaches and her magic being unreliable, it was obvious that she was being hexed by someone. I didn't click that Leah had set it all up though. Maybe if I had read all the books in the space of a week or two I'd have remembered about Leah but it's so long since I read the early books(years!) that I forgot she existed, so I couldn't work that part out. It was all a case of could have been better, in all aspects of the book.Savannah's magic is compromised so we can't get a big magical shootout. The romance with Michael did not work and I suspect it was there to pass the time until Savannah and Adam are put togeher as a couple. The whole cult story I found totally uninteresting. Good bits? I liked Cody and his bad wife. I liked finding out how the victims met their death. I liked that Savannah has to use her brain, not her magic to defeat Leah. And the end was rather intriguing when she loses her magic in a deal to give Kayla and Paula a happy ending. ...more Previously Published on my blog: Welcome to Larissa's Bookish Life 4.5/5 Stars! I am an unconditional, card holding fan of this series and Kelley Armstrong is no doubt an automatic buy for me. Of course, it\u2019s not a perfect series and there are couple books that aren\u2019t my favorites But, 11 books and 2 anthologies in, I have to say it is a pretty solid and awesome series in general. We meet Savannah in the second book, Stolen, when she\u2019s only 12 years old. For the following two books, Dime Store Magi Previously Published on my blog: Welcome to Larissa's Bookish Life 4.5/5 Stars! I am an unconditional, card holding fan of this series and Kelley Armstrong is no doubt an automatic buy for me. Of course, it\u2019s not a perfect series and there are couple books that aren\u2019t my favorites But, 11 books and 2 anthologies in, I have to say it is a pretty solid and awesome series in general. We meet Savannah in the second book, Stolen, when she\u2019s only 12 years old. For the following two books, Dime Store Magic & Industrial Magic, we get to know more about her through the eyes of her guardian, Paige, who takes her in after her mother\u2019s murder. Fast Forward almost 10 years and we get to Waking the Witch, where Savannah is now 21 years old and a young woman trying to prove that she\u2019s capable of being a PI and part of Paige & Lucas\u2019s Supernatural PI firm. Both her guardians are taking a much needed vacation when an associate of theirs comes knocking, in need of assistance in his latest case. Savannah jumps at the chance of taking her first solo case and that\u2019s where her adventure begins. I have always enjoyed Savannah as a secondary character and I was really afraid that I would not like her as much as the heroine, specially an adult now. It was definitely weird seeing her older, but at the same timt it was perfect. I love that this series spans through so many years and time doesn\u2019t stop in each book, giving it a more realistic timeline that follows the span of time that all the books have been released in. I mean, The first book in the series, Bitten, was released in 2001, so 9 years later it makes total sense that Savannah has aged 9 years. Savannah has always lived in the shadow of her Witch mother and Sorcerer father, daughter of two very powerful spellcasters and considered a freak from being born into two races that have been rivals for centuries. With her parents dead and relying solely on her guardians, she has being trying to prove to them and to herself that she is more than her mother and father\u2019s reputation. Savannah is a study in contradictions, she is tough, stubborn, selfish and even mean at times, but she is also fun, smart, loyal, fiercely protective of those she cares about and able of extreme acts of compassion. It was absolutely amazing getting to know the woman that the little girl I used to know has become. I really loved this book, much more than I thought I would. It was fast paced and the mystery kept me gripped to the story. I found myself trying to solve the case right along with Savannah and Adam, and having a lot fun in doing so. I don\u2019t want to give out any spoilers, but I\u2019ll say that the whodunit resolution was such a surprise and very well made. I actually guessed a part of it, but some parts really caught me off guard. The ending left a killer cliffhanger that had me gasping out loud and making me wish it was an year from now already, I really need to get my hands on the next book! All in all, Waking the Witch was a perfect addition to one of my favorite series ever! The romance was very mild, but I have hope for a Savannah & Adam paring, something I have kept my eye on since many books before. If you are a fan of the Women of the Otherworld series this is definitely a must read for you and the cameos and mentions of other characters of the series will get you missing them all. If you haven\u2019t read this series yet, I totally advise you to and not to worry, you can absolutely read Waking the Witch without feeling lost. The Women of The Otherworld series is a staple in the Urban Fantasy genre and this latest installment just makes it clear why. Fast paced action from start to finish that you will not want to put down. ...more Nine year old Kayla is sneaking into the guarded building her mother was killed in. She had done this a hand full of times before, but this time would be different. Claire Kennedy was killed here a week ago and there had to be a connection between Claire's death and her mothers murder. Lucas and Paige are out of town for the week on a vacation - in which Savannah smuggled their cell phones away from them - and now twenty-one year old Savannah is trusted to be in charge of the PI office in their a Nine year old Kayla is sneaking into the guarded building her mother was killed in. She had done this a hand full of times before, but this time would be different. Claire Kennedy was killed here a week ago and there had to be a connection between Claire's death and her mothers murder. Lucas and Paige are out of town for the week on a vacation - in which Savannah smuggled their cell phones away from them - and now twenty-one year old Savannah is trusted to be in charge of the PI office in their absence. Jesse Aanes, a half demon PI from Seattle who has worked with Lucas before, shows up wanting to run a few cases past Lucas. Jesse is investigating the murder of 3 twenty-something year old girls - two from last fall, one from 10 days ago - abandoned in the same vacant building appearing similar, in a quite small depressed town - Columbus Washington. This poor little town hasn't seen a murder in ten years. Jesse believes there is a supernatural connection to these cases from the crime photos he has. Savannah is excited. This would be her first solo case after five years of working under Lucas and Paige. She offers to take this case for Jesse while he finishes up the current case he's on. This book was a great quick read for me. The pacing was constantly moving forward and it wasn't diluted with heavy unneeded material, and the mystery kept growing in suspense for me driving me forward to read more and faster. This is a great book to jump in the series at even though it's the eleventh book. I learned a lot of history of Savannah and start off with her on her own adventures. Through the book you learn of the additional characters around Savannah; Page, Lucas, Adam, and a few others. In meeting a few of the characters in this deprived town there was one I hope to see more of as I just fell in love with, Kayla. I liked how Kelley answered my thoughts when I had a question. Like when Savannah easily uses several spells in a row in a short time frame, Kelley acknowledges this and explains it. A great style I enjoyed here is in reading this book from Savannah's view, you get glimpses of her history and heritage. I am very curious to learn more about her and when Paige and Lucas became her guardians. Savannah has moments where she compares what she is doing to what Lucas or Paige would do or what they would say to her. I felt I got to know them through Savannah. Kelley's writing style is easy to visualize and follow. The story starts off easy, but pulled me in to Savannah quickly. She really felt like a relatable character and one that was personable. I wanted to read more about her. The further I went the more in depth the mystery got. I enjoyed how the mystery turned around in the book. I found myself flipping back through the pages to reread sections to try and piece it together myself. This book could be read by some mature Young Adults. Savannah is responsible with alcohol even though she is old enough to drink. There is mention of sexual activity and acts, but no details. Savannah does have a moment in the book where she is kissing, but she does not let it go further - she has her limits. I really enjoyed the case with Savannah and look forward to reading more with Savannah, as the way this book ended Kelley has to come back to write more on Savannah and I will be waiting. But I am also ready to go buy the other books in the series as I loved what I learned of all the characters. ...more Reviewed by: Rabid Reads Waking the Witch would make for a badass stand-alone novel but I\u2019d expected more from the 11th Otherworld installment. The paranormal aspects are mere parlour tricks, the pioneers of this series are MIA and the plot is more murder mystery in nature than it is Urban Fantasy. I can\u2019t fault Kelley Armstrong\u2019s writing, the intriguing story or the pacing but as a long time fan of these books, it didn\u2019t satisfy me. This is Savannah Levine\u2019s first crack as an Otherworld narrator Reviewed by: Rabid Reads Waking the Witch would make for a badass stand-alone novel but I\u2019d expected more from the 11th Otherworld installment. The paranormal aspects are mere parlour tricks, the pioneers of this series are MIA and the plot is more murder mystery in nature than it is Urban Fantasy. I can\u2019t fault Kelley Armstrong\u2019s writing, the intriguing story or the pacing but as a long time fan of these books, it didn\u2019t satisfy me. This is Savannah Levine\u2019s first crack as an Otherworld narrator and as the supposed prodigy of this series her grand debut was a little lackluster. The previous books have built her character up to be extremely powerful, rebellious and fierce but unfortunately, the real thing failed to live up to all of the hype. Savannah has always struck me as a go getter but her inability to voice her feelings for Adam or wreak havoc on her enemies was disappointing. She comes across as more of an average Joe than as THE Savannah Levine, daughter of Eve Levine (black witch / aspicio half-demon) and Kristof Nast (sorcerer / cabal heir). The story reads like a murder mystery with some nice police procedural elements but calling it an Urban Fantasy is a stretch. The paranormal side is limited to mediocre light ball and cover spells; considering that Savannah is capable of collapsing a house I felt cheated where her witchy powers are concerned. The resolution does have Otherworld roots but I was so completely blindsided by the villain that it felt like Armstrong was grasping at straws in an attempt to connect this book to the overall series arc. Also, other than the occasional name drop, the strong cast of beloved characters that I\u2019ve grown to know and love is all but absent. As a stand-alone, mystery this novel has what you\u2019d expect: action out the wazoo and an impossible-to-guess \u201cwho done it\u201d intrigue. The pacing is brisk, the writing is flawless and I love the fact that this series unfolds in real time. But as the 11th installment in Kelley Armstrong\u2019s world-famous Urban Fantasy series it fizzled. Waking the Witch delivers a good story and has a high entertainment value but it\u2019s an expendable addition to the Women of the Otherworld universe. ...more The Otherworld series shifts protagonists every book \u2013 so we get to see this amazing world from several different angles, it\u2019s one of the things I love most about this series. In this case we follow Savannah, the ward of Paige and Lucas, daughter of the witch/half-demon/ghost Eve Lavine and the incredibly influential Sorcerer Kristof Nast. After following her as a child, we see her now aged 21, working for Paige and Lucas\u2019 investigation firm. And while they\u2019re out of town she has a case, her firs The Otherworld series shifts protagonists every book \u2013 so we get to see this amazing world from several different angles, it\u2019s one of the things I love most about this series. In this case we follow Savannah, the ward of Paige and Lucas, daughter of the witch/half-demon/ghost Eve Lavine and the incredibly influential Sorcerer Kristof Nast. After following her as a child, we see her now aged 21, working for Paige and Lucas\u2019 investigation firm. And while they\u2019re out of town she has a case, her first solo case, eager to prove herself and put into action all the training she\u2019s received, she looks to solve the murders of three young women. But, more, as a witch/sorcerer, she also must keep a look out for an occult connection to the case \u2013 always aware of the concern of keeping humanity ignorant of the preternatural. And the case is far from simple \u2013or clear whether the supernatural is involved or not. With so many suspects and so many possibilities \u2013 and so many clues leading so many places, it\u2019s hard to keep track \u2013 it\u2019s a complicated and knotty tangle to unravel. And Savannah is torn between proving herself and acknowledging she needs back up and support \u2013 not just for the case but also to deal with the emotional fallout as bodies start to fall. I really like Savannah as a protagonist \u2013I\u2019ve been looking forward to her taking the reins (especially since the last few books featured Elena and Hope who are far from my favourites). We\u2019ve seen Savannah since she was 12 years old and her ups and downs, problems and now, at 21, she\u2019s a very real, fully fleshed out character \u2013 and you can see all those events we\u2019ve followed reflected in the person she is. She isn\u2019t a completely different person, but she isn\u2019t the same either, she has grown and developed along reasonable, understandable lines. And she\u2019s a strong, powerful and extremely confident character. She\u2019s not perfect, she takes risks and is reckless \u2013 but I don\u2019t think her recklessness crosses the line into Spunky Agency. She is caustic and sarcastic at times \u2013 but never to a degree that is utterly unreasonable and caricature-like. It\u2019s a great balance \u2013 and I think it\u2019s a character a lot of authors aim to portray but hardly ever get right. Read More ...more One of the things I love best about the Otherworld series is that time passes in the books pretty much like real-time. The series began back in 2001 and we've essentially watched the characters change and grow through 10 years of their own lives. We met Savannah in the 2nd book, as a 12 year-old child and now she's a 21 year-old woman, serving as the narrator of her very own story. It's a little hard to see her as an adult, but I think that's in part to her personality, which is still a little i One of the things I love best about the Otherworld series is that time passes in the books pretty much like real-time. The series began back in 2001 and we've essentially watched the characters change and grow through 10 years of their own lives. We met Savannah in the 2nd book, as a 12 year-old child and now she's a 21 year-old woman, serving as the narrator of her very own story. It's a little hard to see her as an adult, but I think that's in part to her personality, which is still a little impetuous and self-absorbed. And she is still trying to prove herself. So when Paige and Lucas go on vacation, Savannah jumps at the chance to take the lead on her very own case. The tip comes from Jesse, a half-demon contact of Lucas' -- and it takes Savannah to a small town to investigate a trio of human murders with a link to the occult. She joins forces with an off-duty cop named Michael, whose sister was one of the victims. I liked him right away. (view spoiler) [ So when Armstrong killed him off, I was crushed. I knew he wasn't going to be Savannah's HEA, but I really hated to see him die. (hide spoiler) ] There's a wide range of suspects: from the strange commune of girls living with a creepy therapist... to the adulterous boyfriend of one of the victims. Links to the supernatural keep popping up, but Savannah can't quite put her finger on how they're tied to the case. Savannah's a tough girl, as we are reminded more than once, but she could have helped herself a lot by reaching out and being honest with her family and friends. It was frustrating to keep watching her make this mistake. The story would have gone very differently if she weren't so bent on proving herself. Adam shows up in the second half of the book. We don't get a romance between him and Savannah, but the groundwork is there. I'm hoping they'll pursue it in the next book, which is also a Savannah story. The resolution here on the murder/mystery was a huge surprise for me and while that storyline did wrap up, the ending is a pretty big cliffhanger. I enjoyed the book, but I wish we would have had more crossover with the other characters from the previous books. 4 stars. ...more I received this book for free through Goodreads First Reads. I really wanted to enjoy this book-after all, it was free! Unfortunately, I found the plot unnecessarily complex, and the characters flat. I am not familiar with the other books in the series, so I had no preconceived notions about how Savannah was supposed to be like when I began reading. What I discovered was a 16 year old in a 21 year old's body, talking about how mature she is when all she does is whine about how she's never allowed I received this book for free through Goodreads First Reads. I really wanted to enjoy this book-after all, it was free! Unfortunately, I found the plot unnecessarily complex, and the characters flat. I am not familiar with the other books in the series, so I had no preconceived notions about how Savannah was supposed to be like when I began reading. What I discovered was a 16 year old in a 21 year old's body, talking about how mature she is when all she does is whine about how she's never allowed to do things on her own and needs to be rescued constantly by the men in her life. Even with the \"obstacles\" she faces in the book, Savannah struck me as so much of a Mary Sue that I found it difficult to finish the book (and I read books in a matter of hours, not days). The plot was also disappointing. I know that mysteries are supposed to provide the reader with red herrings so the ending is a surprise; however, the ending is supposed to be plausible. One sentence at the beginning of the book briefly describing an event in the past is not enough to make me happy with the twist ending. One final thing I didn't like before I get to the good parts. If Savannah is a Sorcerer and a Witch, and witches and sorcerers are supposed to be able to recognize each other and vice versa, how is it that Savannah was unable to recognize that Tiffany was a witch? Just a thought. Not wanting to end this review on a negative note, I enjoyed how Armstrong poked fun at the typical \"villain tells all\" at the end of the book theme. I also liked that she tried to include a cliffhanger at the end, despite the fact that it was ineffective and felt like it was thrown in as an afterthought. I wish I could give this book a more favorable review, but I can't. It served its purpose as guilty pleasure beach reading though. ...more We first met Savannah back in book 2 of the Women of the Otherworld series. She was a smart-mouthed teen with razor sharp wit, and a screw-it-all attitude. Now, Savannah is 21, and although she has matured, not much else has changed. She's still just as smart-mouthed and smart, although she does try to reign in the attitude when she can. Of course, all of these things are the reason I love her! I've been dying for a Savannah book, and I was definitely not disappointed with it. Savannah is on her We first met Savannah back in book 2 of the Women of the Otherworld series. She was a smart-mouthed teen with razor sharp wit, and a screw-it-all attitude. Now, Savannah is 21, and although she has matured, not much else has changed. She's still just as smart-mouthed and smart, although she does try to reign in the attitude when she can. Of course, all of these things are the reason I love her! I've been dying for a Savannah book, and I was definitely not disappointed with it. Savannah is on her first solo assignment and things keep going from bad to worse. There was a great amount of mystery in this book. You never know who the bad guy is from beginning until the big reveal. Every time I thought I had it figured out, it threw me for a loop and changed it all up again. This book was action packed and kept me turning pages until way late into the night! There was some great scenes with sexual tension, but this is just a small part of the story, not the overlying storyline. All of the characters in this quirky little town were a lot of fun. Each had a their own unique personality, and their own secret to keep hidden. I love Kelley's writing and all the characters that are weaved in and out of this series. We get to see another side of fun-loving Adam, which was great. Not much Lucas and Paige, but you get to see a great deal how they have affected Savannah's life, which was wonderful. I definitely recommend this book it to all of the Kelley fans out there! If you haven't read her books yet, then what are you waiting for??? ...more", "Title": "Waking the Witch"},
