{"Comments": "You do not own a copy of the rule book,<---M> and if you do</---M>, you have certainly never opened it. I liked this book more than the last one. But still this book has little problem which I faced. In this book, <---C>Artemis</---C>' mother gets ill by some serious disease. There is only one cure which is an extinct species.<---F> He asks Fairies for help</---F>. With the help of fairies, Artemis gets back in time to find that species. But he comes to know that, in past time, his younger self and Opal Koboi (antagonist), are a You do not own a copy of the rule book, and if you do, you have certainly never opened it. I liked this book more than the last one. But still this book has little problem which I faced. In this book, Artemis' mother gets ill by some serious disease. There is only one cure which is an extinct species. He asks Fairies for help. With the help of fairies, Artemis gets back in time to find that species. But he comes to know that, in past time, his younger self and Opal Koboi (antagonist), are also after this species. The whole book revolves around how he will get that species to present time through life threatening dangers. Main problem is: This thing didn't look good to me that, that species got extinct by Artemis himself when he was younger. This series always set Artemis for every bad deed. I liked that thing in previous books. But in this book, this thing seems little baseless to me. Never mind, I enjoyed it a lot! 2 books are left!! Hope I will get the good conclusion! (^_^) ...more I LOVED this book! <---A>Eoin Colfer</---A> writes such great fun to read stories! I loved the ending of this book and the whole idea of the book too with the whole time traveling and Artemis meeting his past self and being outsmarted by his younger self. After reading this book, I definitely want to reread the first one again. Everyone must give Artemis Fowl a chance! It's a great series and one of my absolute favorites! Listened to on audiobook by Listening Library, narrated by Enn Reitel. Very disappointed that Nathaniel Parker did not narrate this latest installment in the Artemis Fowl series. I had grown so used to his characterizations and really enjoyed them. It was a bit like having all the actors change in the middle of the season on your favorite TV show. Not that Enn did a bad job, it just wasn't the same. This story seemed a bit draggy and convoluted. Artemis goes back in time to save a lemur that his e Listened to on audiobook by Listening Library, narrated by Enn Reitel. Very disappointed that Nathaniel Parker did not narrate this latest installment in the Artemis Fowl series. I had grown so used to his characterizations and really enjoyed them. It was a bit like having all the actors change in the middle of the season on your favorite TV show. Not that Enn did a bad job, it just wasn't the same. This story seemed a bit draggy and convoluted. Artemis goes back in time to save a lemur that his earlier self had sold to an extinctionist society. He'd sold it in order to fund the rescue mission to Russia to save his father. Now he needs it back because his mother has contracted a fairy plague and fluid from the lemur's brain is the only thing that can save her. All the possible situations that can arise in time travel happen in this book and the going back and forth between the young and old Artemis becomes tiresome and confusing. I don't know if it was because of the new narrator or if the story really wasn't up to par, but this was not my favorite Artemis Fowl book. ...more When did these books get so bad? The plot was half-baked and meandering, and the dialogue was so awkward I could barely stand to read it. The writing is all just clich\u00e9s and people trying to be cooler/smarter than someone else, with technology thrown in as a deus ex machina whenever it's needed. Is that what appeals to boys? I don't know. I hated the twins and Professor Primate and Holly being the biggest emotional wreck ever and THE KISS oh god don't get me started on the kiss. :| But most of al When did these books get so bad? The plot was half-baked and meandering, and the dialogue was so awkward I could barely stand to read it. The writing is all just clich\u00e9s and people trying to be cooler/smarter than someone else, with technology thrown in as a deus ex machina whenever it's needed. Is that what appeals to boys? I don't know. I hated the twins and Professor Primate and Holly being the biggest emotional wreck ever and THE KISS oh god don't get me started on the kiss. :| But most of all? I hated Artemis. WHY would you create an evil super-genius with no morals and then have a long character arc set over six books where he eventually becomes a model citizen? I liked him far more when he was inherently selfish, because then the occasional twinge of doubt or guilt he had were real Events. THAT was why the ending of the first book was so momentous. A nice person isn't interesting, no matter how clever they may be. (And yet I hated little!Artemis for being a whiny brat. I guess he was too emotional at that age.) ...more **Not too spoilery, there may be one or two things that aren't present in the official premise, but you discover them fairly quickly anyway.** I have truly grown fond of the Artemis Fowl series since I first read it as a child, which is probably the reason why I can go back and read the first four books in the series, despite the younger age demographic and slightly juvenile writing. The first four books were great fun to read because they had charm and they made enough sense for me to suspend re **Not too spoilery, there may be one or two things that aren't present in the official premise, but you discover them fairly quickly anyway.** I have truly grown fond of the Artemis Fowl series since I first read it as a child, which is probably the reason why I can go back and read the first four books in the series, despite the younger age demographic and slightly juvenile writing. The first four books were great fun to read because they had charm and they made enough sense for me to suspend reality and just enjoy it. *This* book, however, jumped the shark...enormously. First off, Colfer practically shoves his environmentalist views on the reader the entire time. Though this isn't exactly new to the series, and it's not always a terrible thing, subtlety is the key. This book is about as subtle as an oil tanker crashing into a field of baby seals. My God, the antagonist in this book is so one sided, so hilariously evil, that there is no facet of his personality or plan that the reader can even understand, never mind sympathize with. Colfer's one attempt at giving this eco-terrorist a motive, ambiguity, humanity...fails horribly. The fact that so much of the plot rests on this man's shoulders makes my heart ache. Let's move on to the second problem with this book, the one that the title implies: A Time Paradox. Time Paradox, indeed. In this book, Artemis and Holly must go back in time to change the past, because, as we all know, Artemis was kind of a douche when he was younger, and he made a ruthless deal with the...*shudder*...Extinctionists, whose goal is to make most animals in the world extinct. Why? Who knows? (It is actually explained in the book, and it has to do with some convoluted utilitarian philosophy that made me want to throw the book out the window in disbelief). So this deal happened and the one thing that could have saved his mother was extinguished from the world by his own doing. How poetic...and also dismally contrived. I mean, really, what are the chances? There's no magic or fate or anything, it's just by pure frickin' coincidence. Anyway...throughout the book, there are several interactions between the future Artemis and Holly and past characters. This is dangerous, dangerous territory. Some authors do this well, many do not, and one can guess by my tone that I don't think Colfer executed this trope very well...at all. When you retroactively add scenes into a universe, which is obviously what he did, it has to make sense; some detail from the earlier books should come into place that makes the reader go \"huh, I guess that's why that happened\", or something like that, but NO. These isolated interactions are just there, they are never fully explained, the reader says to him or herself \"Wow, they should really be effing up the space-time continuum\" but...nope, guess not. I don't have much to say about the characters, except that some of them have strange traits that were never mentioned before in any of the five books before it, therefore adding nothing to the story and, actually, retracting from it by ruining the immersion. For example, Holly cricks her neck to the side to do magic. It's just a thing she does. Oh, really? Well, thanks for never mentioning it in any of the previous books. This may seem small but it is important. Always establish basic character traits off the bat. Major changes, even outright betrayal, etc. That's fair game for future books (as long as it makes sense in the context of the story). It's called character development. Little stuff like this, don't bother if you didn't establish it in the first place. It's irking, and it makes me feel like I don't really know the characters anymore. One thing I have to say about the book, though, is the baffling and unexpected romance that springs up. It's a bit weird, to say the least, but it piqued my interest, so there you go. This book...I can't say I had huge expectations after reading the last one (which I was also fairly disappointed in), but I did not anticipate such a heartbreakingly bad book. I don't know what happened, but I am seriously bummed out, because although I love these characters and grew up with them, I truly can't get past how badly I hate the writing in this book. Reading many of these reviews, most people seemed to like it, which I don't really understand but it's cool that other people are satisfied with it, I guess. I just wish I hadn't invested such a chunk of myself into this book series that turned into something that I despise. I guess I'll always have the first four, though, and that'll have to be enough. ...more \u201cAh, yes, the trusty time paradox. If I go back in time and kill my grandfather, then shall I cease to exist? I believe, as Gorben and Berndt did, that any repercussions are already being felt. We can only change the future, not the past or present. If I go back, then I have already been back.\u201c Artemis\u2019s mother is sick and the only option how to save her is to travel in time and save a lemur, who only can cure her. But before he has to prevent his younger self, who\u2019s helping with exterminatio \u201cAh, yes, the trusty time paradox. If I go back in time and kill my grandfather, then shall I cease to exist? I believe, as Gorben and Berndt did, that any repercussions are already being felt. We can only change the future, not the past or present. If I go back, then I have already been back.\u201c Artemis\u2019s mother is sick and the only option how to save her is to travel in time and save a lemur, who only can cure her. But before he has to prevent his younger self, who\u2019s helping with extermination this species. If I wouldn\u2019t read the last 70 pages or so than would be this book my favorite one. But Unfortunately I have read them. I loved the idea with the whole time traveling and duel between past-Artemis and present-Artemis but the end was really bad. Don\u2019t get me wrong, I really love this series and I can even say it\u2019s one of my favorite ones but <+++>The Time Paradox</+++> contains few flaws I couldn\u2019t get over: - the basic rule of time traveling is \u201adon\u2019t interact with anybody from the past or it will affect the present day\u2018 \u2013 what happend with it? Holly and Artemis interacted almost with everyone with no effect on the future. - narration from past and present Artemis was sometimes really confusing. It took me few sentences before I knew whose POV I was reading. - the solution was just weird. I think that Eoin himself was confused with the story and didn\u2019t know how to solve the whole situation so he threw new technologies and more confusing Artemis\u2019s explanations whenever he needed. That all was too smart even for Artemis and I\u2019m not completely sure if I got the solution right. But I still liked the book. If you don\u2019t focus on every word, it\u2019s pleasant and funny read, just next time make it simple and don\u2019t get confused yourself and us, Eoin. I am highly curious if there will be something more between Holly and Artemis! I really recommend to peek inside Artemis\u2019s world to everyone. ...more Another stellar visit into the world of Artemis Fowl (teenage genius) and Holly Short (captian of the L.E.P.). Back from the place where time doesn't exist (where he saved Number 1 - a warlock), three years has gone by but Artemis (and Holly) both find that they are the same as when they left on their last journey. Artemis has two new (twin) 2 year old brothers. But, Angeline Fowl is sick. Deathly ill. And it's because of magic. She has been infected with a plague like illness that struck down fa Another stellar visit into the world of Artemis Fowl (teenage genius) and Holly Short (captian of the L.E.P.). Back from the place where time doesn't exist (where he saved Number 1 - a warlock), three years has gone by but Artemis (and Holly) both find that they are the same as when they left on their last journey. Artemis has two new (twin) 2 year old brothers. But, Angeline Fowl is sick. Deathly ill. And it's because of magic. She has been infected with a plague like illness that struck down fairies in the past but now is virtually unheard of. Cure? lemur brain fluid. Problem? Artemis (his 10 year old self) had the last lemur killed 8 years ago. Answer? GO BACK IN TIME! Artemis and Holly get closer in this novel and you can see the bonds between the pair get stronger. Artemis's nasty criminal mind is becoming more moral in his old age and he's realizing what it really means to have friends and family. I'm anticipating another novel in this series. I hope it comes out soon. First read: Start: September 9, 2008 Finished: September 11, 2008 Second read: Start: February 22, 2011 Finished: ...more Highly disappointed by this book. Artemis Fowl was such a huge part of my childhood, and I spent forever waiting for this last book to come out. I had already sort of moved on from the series, but I was looking forward to it because I expected another excellent book out of the 4 book winning streak of the series. What a letdown. Obviously this book was written out of popular demand, not because the author had a really well-structured, tailored plot in mind to continue the series with. It felt li Highly disappointed by this book. Artemis Fowl was such a huge part of my childhood, and I spent forever waiting for this last book to come out. I had already sort of moved on from the series, but I was looking forward to it because I expected another excellent book out of the 4 book winning streak of the series. What a letdown. Obviously this book was written out of popular demand, not because the author had a really well-structured, tailored plot in mind to continue the series with. It felt like bad fan-fiction. And this book created cliches within the series. The most suspenseful parts of the book were supposed to be that a) Opal Koboi came back for the THIRD time, and b) Butler nearly died for the third time, too. Strange to think that Koboi used to be my favorite villain of the series.... Okay, if you're going to have the main, surprising twist of a book be that some villain you thought was dead comes back for revenge, make it only happen ONCE. Like in The Opal Deception. Then it's good--that book was my favorite of the series. But twice?? Come on, like we didn't see THAT coming! Not to mention, this time it's completely illogical and blows huge holes in the plotline of the entire series. And she has to come back in the possible seventh book because the ending is a cliffhanger--Opal gets away. Butler, Butler, Butler. If you're such an awesome bodyguard, why do you keep dying?? Again, first and second time we cared about it and we were really scared, but the third time makes all of the surprise go away. It's difficult to create your own cliche, but Colfer seems to have managed two of them... Yes, it's a time travel book--it's going to be confusing. But does it have to be so confusing that at the end we find ourselves asking \"What the hell just happened??\" Perhaps the only thing I liked about this book was the last few sentences--how it connects back to the beginning with the thought \"Fairies. Something about fairies.\" That's a total of four really decent words in a 400 page book. ...more can you believe Holly and Artemis are soulmates OMG! Artemis and Holly finally kissed! For an MG book, that's a huge big deal! She's like 35 in adult years and he's fourteen! And people think I write pervy stuff. Oh, Eoin, you devil. Can't wait to read the rest of the series. I've been shipping Artemis and Holly for ten damn years! Eoin Colfer is a great writer. I devoured his books, and I read multiple times. Artemis Fowl is a series that I will always remember. I read them when I was about 12. Then I found out one of my classmates was reading them too, I approached him with something along the lines of \"oh, are you reading this book too?\" but then he dismissed me saying that this book was not for girls, and i just replied that i must have confused it with something else. But something changed in that moment, and well, I Eoin Colfer is a great writer. I devoured his books, and I read multiple times. Artemis Fowl is a series that I will always remember. I read them when I was about 12. Then I found out one of my classmates was reading them too, I approached him with something along the lines of \"oh, are you reading this book too?\" but then he dismissed me saying that this book was not for girls, and i just replied that i must have confused it with something else. But something changed in that moment, and well, I never picked up the sequel to Opal Deception. I bought the sequels for my brother years after, but I never read them. Now I am 20, but I decided to pick it up again. Because it was utter nonsense, it's not just \"for boys\", it's something I loved and I am not ashamed of it, and I don't care about what people think. Obliviously, I am used to more heavy books, and this is still a children book, it was an easy quick read. But you know what? It was good. Absolutely good. I can totally see why these books attracted me so much. This kid outsmarted everyone, Holly Short (Spinella in Italian, which is the version I read) was a badass female character, the plot was not about romance, the whole Fairy People element was something that has always interested me, and it just was so good. Plus, the writing is good, which makes the book enjoyable even though I'm not a child anymore. It might not be perfect, but this. This was my Harry Potter. This was ten times better than Harry Potter. ...more This book only furthered my displeasure that stemmed from the 5th book. Colfer stretched out his plotline to unnecessary proportions. Since the subject of this novel was time travel, there were many questions left unanswered, especially because Colfer could not establish one set of rules for his time traveling universe. I am unconvinced with Colfer's \"ability\" to write science fiction - I think he should stick to fantasy, since this book obviously failed at being a mix of a sci-fi/fantasy book. 1. This book only furthered my displeasure that stemmed from the 5th book. Colfer stretched out his plotline to unnecessary proportions. Since the subject of this novel was time travel, there were many questions left unanswered, especially because Colfer could not establish one set of rules for his time traveling universe. I am unconvinced with Colfer's \"ability\" to write science fiction - I think he should stick to fantasy, since this book obviously failed at being a mix of a sci-fi/fantasy book. 1. What happened with the whole warning of \"Don't interact with anybody from the past or it will affect the present\" deal? I vaguely understood that Fowl understood time travel to wind around the idea that even if the event had not happened yet, it had still happened (i.e. Opal's plan). But then why would No. 1 and Foaly warn Artemis and Holly not to interact with anyone in the past? (They interacted with EVERYONE) 2. Mind wiping - what about Julius? I would believe even that small interaction would cause change in the future. 3. Artemis seemed to remember the past wrongly. At one point, he even has a revelation as to why this is so, but we never get back to it. Why? This was a very important idea in the plotline - why were things not as Artemis remembered them? And why are we never told why this was so? 4. How the hell did Artemis get a message to past Mulch? 5. Why was Artemis not smart enough to think of getting the lemur after his past self had sold it? The past Artemis needed the money to find his father. If he had succeeded in stealing the lemur from himself, it would have screwed up the future. Though I realize everything worked out in the end, why didn't Artemis THINK of these consequences? (he thinks to himself about how it was too unpredictable to get the lemur from his enemy because he does not have memory of those events - kind of a weenie way out of an explanation, isn't it?) 6. Considering that the 4th book has happened, Opal will somehow return back to her time and time will occur as normal and she will try to regain power through the coarse of the rest of the books. Why on earth would Colfer leave opening for another freaking novel about Koboi? And two more things: 1. The twins were useless - they did nothing for the plot or characters. Why add them in at all? 2. Everyone keeps mentioning the power of warlocks, when I thought that the 5th book made it perfectly clear that they were all dead except for No. 1 and his mentor? Though I was unsatisfied with the general subject and plotline of this book, it was a generic, fun read. I was less displeased with this one than the 5th one. ...more I didn't like this as much as other Artemis Fowl books I have read, but I liked the themes. I was ready for the series to end last book, or when Commander Root died. One of the interesting themes I found was when the book showed Commander Root's real feelings about Holly. No, nothing shocking, he wasn't in love with her. But, he did think she did a great job and when he was hard on her it was because he felt he had to. I liked the exposition that the part of Root we normally saw was all an act. I didn't like this as much as other Artemis Fowl books I have read, but I liked the themes. I was ready for the series to end last book, or when Commander Root died. One of the interesting themes I found was when the book showed Commander Root's real feelings about Holly. No, nothing shocking, he wasn't in love with her. But, he did think she did a great job and when he was hard on her it was because he felt he had to. I liked the exposition that the part of Root we normally saw was all an act. And, you can see the current Commander using the same techniques. Another interesting theme is how you see your past selves. Artemis meets his 10-year-old self in the past. He knows what the 10-year-old Artemis will do, but is at the same time unhappy with who he was. I think he is at peace with who he was even though he did wreak some havoc in his past. Maybe, he just tries not to dwell on it. Trust was another theme played around with. Artemis manipulated Holly Short to get her to agree to come into the past with him. Was it necessary for him to do that? Maybe for an immediate response. Holly is very mad when hew tells her, but forgives him at least a little by the end. Will true trust ever exist in their relationship. I thought it was a bit pathetic when Artemis and Holly kissed, it was not necessary for the plot. I hope they won't become lovers. Overall, I was glad I read it. I wouldn't have minded if the last Artemis Fowl had been the last, or if this one is the last. The themes were interesting to read about. ...more Artemis Fowl and the TIme Paradox is a interesting and original story about a teenage prodigy who is also a criminal mastermind. In the previous books he has discovered a race of mythical beasts and has had many confrontations but eventually has made peace with them. But now he must ask for a big favor, he needs to go back in time using demon magic. His mother has caught a fatal sickness that can only be cured by a brain fluid of a Silky fur lemur. The problem is that it went extinct four years Artemis Fowl and the TIme Paradox is a interesting and original story about a teenage prodigy who is also a criminal mastermind. In the previous books he has discovered a race of mythical beasts and has had many confrontations but eventually has made peace with them. But now he must ask for a big favor, he needs to go back in time using demon magic. His mother has caught a fatal sickness that can only be cured by a brain fluid of a Silky fur lemur. The problem is that it went extinct four years ago, and the last one was killed by Artemis Fowl himself. So now Artemis has to go back in time and fight his hardest opponent yet: himself. ...more i don't know why i bother reading the rest of these books. thy are getting worse. Book 6 in the artemis fowl series was thoroughly enjoyable. Now to be honest and fair, I listened to this while working and when I listen opposed to reading, my critical analysis kinds takes a back seat. A good reader can make up for a slightly incompetent writer without me really noticing. With that disclaimer, I'll say that I thought this book was quite good. The series is very original and well-thought out, especially considering the sea of young adult fantasy that is full of so much flotsam Book 6 in the artemis fowl series was thoroughly enjoyable. Now to be honest and fair, I listened to this while working and when I listen opposed to reading, my critical analysis kinds takes a back seat. A good reader can make up for a slightly incompetent writer without me really noticing. With that disclaimer, I'll say that I thought this book was quite good. The series is very original and well-thought out, especially considering the sea of young adult fantasy that is full of so much flotsam and jetsam. UT just started book 2 (reading, not listening) and he says it's awesome, so it must not be the reader, it must really be good. ...more Okay, this is a weird one. I think Artemis Fowl has overextended and is grasping for story at this point. Here we find Artemis and Holly going back in time to save a lemur for the purpose of curing Angeline Fowl of a fairy disease. Things got a bit too coincidental, like Artemis having destroyed the very lemur he would need in the future. Oh well, hopefully the next one gets better. I'm still really enjoying this series! Number 7 here I come. >Artemis no puedo olvidar sus malos h\u00e1bitos, ha robado magia en el t\u00fanel del tiempo y quiz\u00e1s por eso es el culpable que su madre tenga una enfermedad mortal de los seres m\u00e1gicos para la cual s\u00f3lo existe una cura: el l\u00edquido cefalorraqu\u00eddeo de l\u00e9mur. Pero hay un problema, Artemis es el culpable de que el ultimo de esta raza haya perecido, eliminando esta raza de la faz de la tierra \u00bfTiene alg\u00fan plan para salvarla? \u00bfA qu\u00e9 artima\u00f1a recurrir\u00e1? \u00bfPerder\u00e1 la amistad de los eres m\u00e1gicos para reparar >Artemis no puedo olvidar sus malos h\u00e1bitos, ha robado magia en el t\u00fanel del tiempo y quiz\u00e1s por eso es el culpable que su madre tenga una enfermedad mortal de los seres m\u00e1gicos para la cual s\u00f3lo existe una cura: el l\u00edquido cefalorraqu\u00eddeo de l\u00e9mur. Pero hay un problema, Artemis es el culpable de que el ultimo de esta raza haya perecido, eliminando esta raza de la faz de la tierra \u00bfTiene alg\u00fan plan para salvarla? \u00bfA qu\u00e9 artima\u00f1a recurrir\u00e1? \u00bfPerder\u00e1 la amistad de los eres m\u00e1gicos para reparar ambos errores y poder entrar nuevamente en el t\u00fanel del tiempo y corregir lo que hizo a los 10 a\u00f1os? En realidad 3.7 eestrellas Me gusta c\u00f3mo ha evolucionado Artemis, de peque\u00f1o mafioso sin coraz\u00f3n a adolescente serio, hermano mayor responsable, con tendencias poco \u201cconvencionales\u201d, que toma caf\u00e9 org\u00e1nico y cuyos mejores amigos son seres .Por ello disfrut\u00e9 este libro por partida doble, ya que en \u00e9l ambos Artemis compiten por un mismo objetivo: un l\u00e9mur sedoso, pero con motivaciones completamente diferentes y opuestas. Una cosa que me agrada mucho de Eoin Colfer es como introduce cada libro, siempre incluye una historia random sobre alguno de los personajes que se relaciona colateralmente con la historia posterior. Me recuerda al comienzo de los Simpson, donde la primera historia nunca tiene mucho que ver con la principal, pero siempre es una sabrosa introducci\u00f3n. En esta ocasi\u00f3n la historia del Kraquen me encant\u00f3, me record\u00f3 mis d\u00edas estudiando El Leviat\u00e1n de Hobbes para mi clase de derecho (*risas nerd*) y am\u00e9 como sirvi\u00f3 para cerrar esta aventura con un final bastante infartarte. Pero (uno grande) Me hubiese gustado que los peque\u00f1o gemelos Fowl hubiesen tenido m\u00e1s protagonismo, odio los personajes de adorno, sobre todo cuando tiene tanto potencial. La trama en si est\u00e1 bien pensada y es, por momentos adictiva. Lamentablemente, a la mitad tiene una situaci\u00f3n tan forzada que me cost\u00f3 enormemente remontarla, pero tras lo cual el libro recobr\u00f3 su facilidad natural. Me gusto bastante y me lo le\u00ed compulsivamente, de a 100 hojas cada vez que me sentaba a hacerlo. Debo confesar que la traducci\u00f3n del t\u00edtulo me hizo pensar de inmediato en que el antagonista seria 100% Opal Koboi, personaje que no disfrut\u00e9 tanto como en otras ocasiones. Mas creo que enfrentar a dos Artemis fue una excelente oportunidad para medir su inteligencia y lo de la \u201cparadoja del tiempo\u201d te deja bastante perplejo. Ahora bien, la relaci\u00f3n Holly-Artemis se est\u00e1 volviendo \u201cpeligrosa\u201d. Me gusta la idea, pero creo que s\u00f3lo da\u00f1ar\u00eda la historia si algo \u201cpasara\u201d entre ellos. Tristemente para Artemis, creo que su historial le juega en contra a la hora de ser un gal\u00e1n con la Elfa, la cual, contraria a muchas protagonistas actuales, no quiere enredarse con un malvadillo como este o no siente la necesidad imperante de liarse con lo prohibido. Veremos que sucede en los \u00faltimos dos libros. Debo decir libro tiene bastantes puntos que me molestaron como moscas en un d\u00eda de calor: el falso juicio anti ecologista se me hizo eterno, o el poco partido que le sacan al peque\u00f1o Artemis ni lo incongruente que es mandarlo al pasado tan f\u00e1cilmente y sin decirnos bajo qu\u00e9 circunstancias (Wait! ESE peque\u00f1o malvado no se ir\u00eda del presente sin antes sacar una buena tajada de conocimientos) Es bastante sospechoso. Pens\u00e9 que saldr\u00eda Minerva, me gustar\u00eda ver c\u00f3mo ha evolucionado su personalidad, espero que as\u00ed sea en el futuro. A pesar de ello esta es una gran aventura, entretenid\u00edsima y con un final un poco estresante. Como siempre mayordomo es adorable. Es como el Alfred de Batman. Yo quiero uno :3 Eoin Colfer es un autor irregular, aunque incluso sus novelas m\u00e1s flojas son mejores que la media de muchos de los escritores de novela juvenil o Joven adulta, por eso me gusta mucho y sigo ley\u00e9ndolo aun cuando tengo algunos reparos en como ordena sus tramas o sobre algunas adiciones algo forzadas. A pesar de ello es uno de mis autores favoritos de aventuras juveniles, al cual siempre recomiendo y cuya obra espero que no lleven al cine y si lo hacen, que sea una adaptaci\u00f3n decente y que mantenga el esp\u00edritu de la obra. No en vano he le\u00eddo toda su serie de Artemis, la cual, a pesar de que se ha extendi\u00f3 bastante, no ha perdido esa chispa original que le confiera la especial personalida del protagonista. Buena entrega, aunque pudo ser mucho mejor. ...more The Artemis Fowl series is back to the high standards I\u2019ve come to expect of it. This was another re-read so this came as no surprise to me, however the final two books in the series will be new reads for me, so I\u2019m hoping the series goes out on just as much of a high as this book. After the awkwardly misjudged character of Minerva Paradizo in the last book, the series really recovers its wings here, as we get back to Artemis and his fairy friends doing what they do best, going on a high-risk ad The Artemis Fowl series is back to the high standards I\u2019ve come to expect of it. This was another re-read so this came as no surprise to me, however the final two books in the series will be new reads for me, so I\u2019m hoping the series goes out on just as much of a high as this book. After the awkwardly misjudged character of Minerva Paradizo in the last book, the series really recovers its wings here, as we get back to Artemis and his fairy friends doing what they do best, going on a high-risk adventure of epic proportions. With each book in this series it manages to pull off the remarkable feat of topping the stakes of the previous entry. That\u2019s an achievement that cannot be said of many series. This time Artemis is facing his toughest opponent yet \u2013 himself \u2013 and just when you thought that was tough enough Colfer throws in a huge twist that ups the stakes even more . Just when you thought you were on the edge of your seat, you\u2019re thrown a curveball that has you positively teetering off the edge. As per usual the book is crammed full of action and there\u2019s never a dull moment. What\u2019s more this book pulls an Eternity Code and leaves us on a huge cliffhanger, although the main thread of the plot is self-contained and resolved in a deeply satisfying way. Watch out for the complex plot on this one though; the title of this book really does do what it says on the tin and you may find yourself re-reading certain passages towards the end to make sure you\u2019ve got what\u2019s going on. I also remember the satisfaction of vindication when I first read this book. Not so much as a mention of Minerva Paradizo, and the hints of Artemis/Holly in previous books now undeniably blossomed here. The sparks are flying and this time they ain\u2019t magical. This subtext just became a ship. And as someone who appreciates a well-crafted relationship based on a dynamic built up slowly and carefully over time and books, I have to appreciate the fruition of this one, even if Artemis blows it \u2013 I have a feeling this won\u2019t be the end of Artemis/Holly. One thing's for sure - with a cliffhanger this size there's going to be plenty of action and adventure in the next book. 9 out of 10 ...more Kelvin Sparks 805 English Book Review In the book Artemis Fowl and <+++>The Time Paradox</+++> Artemis' mother is very ill and this disease is fatal and she caught it almost 'magically' and doctors, and the family are puzzled. A little bit later in the story Artemis discovers the mysterious disease is indeed magic, and is known as Spelltrophy, the N1 (a magical peace keeper fairy organization) had 'eradicated' the disease before. Artemis did the research and figured out the disease spreads with the use of m Kelvin Sparks 805 English Book Review In the book Artemis Fowl and The Time Paradox Artemis' mother is very ill and this disease is fatal and she caught it almost 'magically' and doctors, and the family are puzzled. A little bit later in the story Artemis discovers the mysterious disease is indeed magic, and is known as Spelltrophy, the N\u02da1 (a magical peace keeper fairy organization) had 'eradicated' the disease before. Artemis did the research and figured out the disease spreads with the use of more magic and the antidote is the brain fluid of a Lemur from Madagascar which is now extinct. Should Artemis go against humanity to save one person who happens to be his mother. In the story Artemis faces an extremely tough decision which is: which more important saving a family members life, or saving the lives of multiple others. He has to choose between his Mother or what could be all of the world. In the story Artemis did what I thought was very foolish and picked his mom. That choice made him out to be self centered which he was depicted as in the beginning of the series a person who was rich, immoral, and self centered and that choice showed that after all he's been through he hasn't changed a bit, even through near death experiences. I don't think that I can directly relate to this, but I have found riddles that confront every day people with a critical decision that somehow will leave people furious, even themselves. In our Socrates Cafe discussion we had one that said after a nuclear explosion there are 8 people there are no more bomb shelter there is enough food to sustain 5 people 3 must be evicted. It is a question that has no right answer, and there will always be people left furious. All and all Artemis made a tough decision when under insane pressure and was instrumental in the book which kept me at the edge of my seat I give it a 4.5 of 5 stars enjoy!!!!! ...more It is pretty amazing, how the author can show that Artemis is growing, how they all change and what happens. Of course, not everything in this book was great, but mostly what caused me to give only three stars (to be honest, I'm not really sure, how many I should give) is the desperate and depressive feeling the book gave me. The first part of it was really hard and slow on me, I felt like I am getting stressed as the problems described in this book are a real world trouble - illness and extincti It is pretty amazing, how the author can show that Artemis is growing, how they all change and what happens. Of course, not everything in this book was great, but mostly what caused me to give only three stars (to be honest, I'm not really sure, how many I should give) is the desperate and depressive feeling the book gave me. The first part of it was really hard and slow on me, I felt like I am getting stressed as the problems described in this book are a real world trouble - illness and extinction. And somehow I just felt bad/sad the whole time, as if with my own real life problems it wouldn't be enough. But, from the moment when I realized that Opal Koboi is going to be in the story, I somehow got calmer and stopped caring a bit, as it seemed that it is all going to be alright, as the human problems are not the main line of the story anymore and the magical problems can always be solved by magic and I don't have to worry about those, so the stress went away. Of course, it is a great skill that the author can create such environment to make a reader to feel like the problems are his, but because of the hopeless feelings while reading the first part of the book, I kind of didn't like it, hence the feelings about the book is mostly what the opinion will be about it and the content that resolved all the issues and made the positive (not even sure, if it is positive) ending in this book, was not stronger then the beginning depressive content. And while talking about the ending, I didn't really feel like it had an ending, it just have a cliffhanger about our dear Opal, but she has been out and about so many times already that I didn't even care about it, as well as Artemis's mother's new knowledge (and a loophole from the previous book - why the magical creatures didn't wipe memories, if Butler told the family everything about magic?). I had already read the story about Julius's brother and quite enjoyed that one. ...more I read this quickly, as I have past volumes in the series, so my appraisal that the plot was muddled should be taken with a grain of salt; a further reading may prove I was wrong. I really do enjoy this series. The characters, especially, are fully defined and work well together. Artemis, Butler, Holly, Mulch, Foaly, Root, have all taken a journey through the course of the series and become different people. This new volume either underscores that or tears into pieces. Authors who meddle with time I read this quickly, as I have past volumes in the series, so my appraisal that the plot was muddled should be taken with a grain of salt; a further reading may prove I was wrong. I really do enjoy this series. The characters, especially, are fully defined and work well together. Artemis, Butler, Holly, Mulch, Foaly, Root, have all taken a journey through the course of the series and become different people. This new volume either underscores that or tears into pieces. Authors who meddle with time generally have a mixed bag. This deals with it fairly well, but not as well as, on a lesser scale, Prisoner of Azkaban does. Colfer was obviously making a point when he set Artemis Fowl against his own past self, and I winced when I read those passages because it works brutally. Artemis really did change, that was the genius of the series in the first place. But did he really have to bring Opal Koboi back AGAIN? I am SO SICK of her. She's not even that interesting of a villain, compared to Jon Spiro in Eternity Code or Leon Abbot in Lost Colony. I've heard that this is the last boook in the series. If so, it's unworthy. In many ways, Opal Deception was a fitter ending. And where did Minerva Paradizo go? I loved the romantic tension between her and Artemis. The chemistry between Artemis and Holly made the new level of their relationship believable, but still a little out-grossing. Interspecies romance isn't that appealing to me. All in all, still in true Colfer style, just not among his best. I'm hoping for another one, at least, to tie the story off, and preferably before I get too old to enjoy 'em. ...more 2015 Reading Challenge: a book you started but never finished. I started this book way back at Christmas 2013, and for some strange reason, put it down and never picked it back up. I didn't realise how much I missed the characters and the world and the overall intelligence of the plot. Eoin Colfer is a master of writing complex plots that are still easy to understand and tht children love. Artemis was just as much of a smartass as usual, and Holly always had a witty remark ready. I loved how muc 2015 Reading Challenge: a book you started but never finished. I started this book way back at Christmas 2013, and for some strange reason, put it down and never picked it back up. I didn't realise how much I missed the characters and the world and the overall intelligence of the plot. Eoin Colfer is a master of writing complex plots that are still easy to understand and tht children love. Artemis was just as much of a smartass as usual, and Holly always had a witty remark ready. I loved how much their relationship developed throughout the course of the story, and how well they work together as a team. And of course there was the added bonus of it being set in Ireland. It's always fun to hear places mentioned in books that you actually know well. I also really enjoyed the short story at the back of the book about Holly's initiation into the LEPrecon unit. Overall the story and characters were fantastically written and I'll be hopefully picking up the next book soon. ...more *4.5 In all due honesty, I was hating this book up to the whole scheme is revealed, which is, to be exact, on page 338. Bravo for the surprising turn at the end; I thought all hopes were lost. This book from the series is much more convoluted and sometimes maybe too many complications. There are so many times when they COULD have just succeed and return to the present yet SOMETHING always ruins it. That annoyed me A LOT because I thought Artemis can't possibly be defeated so easily. Oh, yeah, I sh *4.5 In all due honesty, I was hating this book up to the whole scheme is revealed, which is, to be exact, on page 338. Bravo for the surprising turn at the end; I thought all hopes were lost. This book from the series is much more convoluted and sometimes maybe too many complications. There are so many times when they COULD have just succeed and return to the present yet SOMETHING always ruins it. That annoyed me A LOT because I thought Artemis can't possibly be defeated so easily. Oh, yeah, I should also praise the classical music incorporation: Beethoven's Symphony No. 7 and Schubert's Unfinished Symphony No. 8. (Hey, we played that piece!) How could I also forget the two Lord of the Rings references. ;) Last thing, I hope we are done with Opal for good this time. Done. Done. Done. I cannot stand another Opal's crazy outburst. ...more I have nothing intelligent to say about this book. I mean, it was a fast-paced, complicated (but ultimately well-plotted) story with lots of action and high stakes, but really the whole time my brain was all stuck on \"Artemis/Holly! SQUEE!!!\" Seriously, I never thought it would really happen that the two of them would admit an attraction to each other even to themselves, let alone act on it (however briefly). I figured the growing UST* I'd perceived between them was mostly in my deranged imaginat I have nothing intelligent to say about this book. I mean, it was a fast-paced, complicated (but ultimately well-plotted) story with lots of action and high stakes, but really the whole time my brain was all stuck on \"Artemis/Holly! SQUEE!!!\" Seriously, I never thought it would really happen that the two of them would admit an attraction to each other even to themselves, let alone act on it (however briefly). I figured the growing UST* I'd perceived between them was mostly in my deranged imagination. What a surprise to find the author apparently agreeing with me! And yet, nothing was really resolved. Next book, please? Yes, I am twelve. -- * Unresolved Sexual Tension. ...more Actual rating 4.5 I really loved this book and the way it tied back into everything else. I almost quit reading it with about 2 hours to go in the audio book, but decided to give it another go today and finished it all at once. It felt slow at times, but this might have been due to when I was choosing to listen to it. But, in the end I am glad I went back to it, and now I am interested to see where things will go from here. I still want to know where the little girl from the book before is going Actual rating 4.5 I really loved this book and the way it tied back into everything else. I almost quit reading it with about 2 hours to go in the audio book, but decided to give it another go today and finished it all at once. It felt slow at times, but this might have been due to when I was choosing to listen to it. But, in the end I am glad I went back to it, and now I am interested to see where things will go from here. I still want to know where the little girl from the book before is going to show up, and the whole Holly and Arty thing is a bit strange. But, these books are great! ...more This book was funnier than the others, but once again the narrative is fairly boring. Artemis does not seem that clever anymore. Every once in a while he has a good idea, but they seem to be pretty straight forward plans. Once again, Coif's deficiency in narrative composure also stole a bit from the show- it was hard figuring out what exactly was happening. I guess by now I'm committed to finishing the series though. i got distracted in the middle of reading this (as i always do! which is why i'm constantly \"currently reading\" dozens of books! bad habits!) but it was good, if confusing. i'm giving myself the benefit of the doubt and saying that the reason i was so confused is because i read it in small chunks and not all at once, and not because i am too dim to understand time travel in a children's book This book was my favorite out of the whole series so far! Only 2 more books to go and I am finished with this series. Overall rating: 4.5!(:", "Title": "The Time Paradox"},
