{"Comments": "::: FULL REVIEW NOW POSTED ::: WOW. WOW. WOW!!!! <+++>Winter Garden</+++> was\u00a0one of the most breathtaking books that I have ever read in my entire life. And I do not say that lightly. I cried so hard I couldn't even see the pages.<---F> The emotions were overpowering and all-consuming</---F>. It also\u00a0has THE. MOST. BEAUTIFUL. EPILOGUE. of all-time. The only other books that has\u00a0made me cry this hard before has been The Bronze Horseman which is my favorite book in the world... My God, THE FEELS!!!! What began as a fam ::: FULL REVIEW NOW POSTED ::: WOW. WOW. WOW!!!! <+++>Winter Garden</+++> was\u00a0one of the most breathtaking books that I have ever read in my entire life. And I do not say that lightly. I cried so hard I couldn't even see the pages. The emotions were overpowering and all-consuming. It also\u00a0has THE. MOST. BEAUTIFUL. EPILOGUE. of all-time. The only other books that has\u00a0made me cry this hard before has been The Bronze Horseman which is my favorite book in the world... My God, THE FEELS!!!! What began as a family mystery turned into an EPIC story of love and survival. I rarely give this rating,<---M> but this was 6 STARS! \"Vera</---M>,\" he says, making her look at him. \"What?\" \"You stay alive... Promise me. The three of you will make it to the end.\" Ok, before anything, please note the genre of this book is Women's Fiction, and not specifically Romance even though there is indeed a beautiful, powerful, and heart-wrenching love story at the heart of the book. If you're a romance reader (<---B>like me</---B>), please don't worry though, I promise the ending is amazing. The other important things to know before you read is that I do think some readers might find the book a little slow at first and maybe even find that they didn't 'like' the characters. Don't let that worry you. I promise you there's a reason for this. This is a story that builds in rich layers of complexity and emotional depth in such a way that it is absolutely worth it to stick with the story because the impact and delivery of both the second half of the book and especially the ending is just SO incredible and powerful!! As I was reading, my rating went from maybe 4 stars at first, to 4.5, to 5, then it was a solid 5++ stars for a while... then on page 380, my rating shot straight up to 6 stars. I read that page\u00a0and instantly got CHILLS through my entire body. SHIVERS . I re-read the page twice, then put the book down and just SOBBED my heart out. Pure ugly crying. Tears streaming uncontrollably down my face. The story\u00a0was so beautiful!!!!!!! Because this book's genre is indeed different than my usual romance recommendations, I strongly suggest that you read the blurb before purchasing. It's a very\u00a0accurate representation of the story. For me personally, I knew I wanted to read this book the moment I read the blurb. If you're also intrigued by it, then you should definitely read this\u00a0book for SURE and as soon as possible. But if the blurb doesn't appeal to you, then I'll be really honest and say that \u00a0this book is likely not for you. But definitely check it out!!! It's worth every penny and for me, this book is a Forever Top Favorite.\u00a0Here's the blurb: <---C>Meredith</---C> and Nina Whitson are as different as sisters can be. One stayed at home to raise her children and manage the family apple orchard; the other followed a dream and traveled the world to become a famous photojournalist. But when their beloved father falls ill, Meredith and Nina find themselves together again, standing alongside their cold, disapproving mother, Anya, who even now, offers no comfort to her daughters. As children, the only connection between them was the Russian fairy tale Anya sometimes told the girls at night. On his deathbed, their father extracts a promise from the women in his life: the fairy tale will be told one last time\u2014and all the way to the end. Thus begins an unexpected journey into the truth of Anya's life in war-torn Leningrad, more than five decades ago. Alternating between the past and present, Meredith and Nina will finally hear the singular, harrowing story of their mother's life, and what they learn is a secret so terrible and terrifying that it will shake the very foundation of their family and change who they believe they are. <---A>Kristin Hannah</---A>'s writing is absolutely exquisite. She writes with a deeply profound and insightful understanding and portrayal of people that never ceases to amaze me. Her storytelling skills are almost unparalleled. I've read three of her books at this point and have been blown away by each one. I found it absolutely fascinating and captivating watching the way the 'fairy tale' that the mother was telling slowly blended into reality. The transition was so powerful -- there are all these subtle details that if you read carefully, you'll catch and they'll take your breath away. It's a truly stunning piece of writing. When I first started the book, I was reading more out of curiosity than anything else.\u00a0Truthfully, I found many of the characters to be cold and distant and wasn't really sure that I'd ever connect with them on an emotional level but I was intrigued enough by the story to keep reading. And along the way, there's this undercurrent to the story that pulls you in deeper and just keeps growing stronger. I think that it's ok not to like the characters at first because one of the important messages of this book is how often and easily people misjudge each other without knowing their full story. I think it was written like that on purpose -- to make you experience the message of the story first hand. Because I promise you by the end of this story, I was overflowing with emotion. Few books have ever made me care so deeply for the characters as this one did. This isn't just a story you read, it's an experience you go through. This isn't just one of my favorite books of the year, it's\u00a0one of my favorite books of all-time. I know for a certainty that no matter how many books I read, this will always remain precious to me. It has beautiful writing, a breathtaking story, and a powerful ending -- the true sign of a fantastic novel. \"I think maybe love can just... dissolve.\" \"No, it does not,\" her mother said. \"So how do --\" \"You hang on,\" her mother said. \"Until your hands are bleeding, and you still do not let go.\" Rating: 6 STARS! Standalone. _______________________________________ For more of my reviews, book news and updates: \u2726 Main blog: Aestas Book Blog \u2726 Facebook Blog Page \u2726 Twitter \u2726 Subscribe by email ...more Once again, I find myself in awe of the power and beauty of Kristin Hannah \u2019s words. She gives her readers the ability to crawl inside the story and see the world through the eyes of her characters. It\u2019s her stunning gift for capturing the heart wrenching and emotional aspect of every connection that left me completely enamored with this family. Every single one of them. By the time I reached the end of the story, I was nowhere near ready to let them go. There are people everywhere that find them Once again, I find myself in awe of the power and beauty of Kristin Hannah \u2019s words. She gives her readers the ability to crawl inside the story and see the world through the eyes of her characters. It\u2019s her stunning gift for capturing the heart wrenching and emotional aspect of every connection that left me completely enamored with this family. Every single one of them. By the time I reached the end of the story, I was nowhere near ready to let them go. There are people everywhere that find themselves in tumultuous relationships, but I think it would be the cold and uncaring attitude of a parent that would have the power to slice anyone to the core. Welcome to Meredith and Nina\u2019s world. They grew up vying for their mother Anya\u2019s love and attention, only to be pushed away and ignored. The worst part was seeing that she was actually capable of love in some ways. Anya shared an enviable connection with her husband; he adored her despite her frigid nature towards their daughters, but why? What did their dad see that Meredith and Nina couldn't? Interlaced with a Russian fairytale that changes absolutely everything, this story is harrowing and heartbreaking, in so many ways. It\u2019s the buried resentments that get unearthed, the hidden regrets that are revealed and the realization that there is more to everyone\u2019s story that provides the much needed answers. Reality is, life is a series of choices - some are remarkable and some naturally morph in to regrets - good or bad, the culmination make us who we are. My favorite part of the entire story was the dynamic between the two sisters. Meredith was always the steadfast and responsible one and Nina was the wild and free sister, but they were both strong, just in different ways. Both admired one another for exactly what they regretted the most in themselves and I found that quite interesting. I guess, the grass always seems greener on the other side, right? And of course, the love story junkie in me would be remiss not to mention Danny and Jeff. I was completely smitten with both, they were as different as the sisters, but worthy in their own ways. Of course, the ending left me in tears. If you didn't know, I'm a complete and utter cry baby. It felt like my heart was literally torn in two - between what could have been and what was - but ultimately it was still a happy place to be. Favorite Quote: \u201cTo lose love is a terrible thing. But to turn away from it is unbearable. Will you spend the rest of your life replaying it in your head? Wondering if you walked away too soon or too easily? Or if you'll ever love anyone that deeply again?\" ...more Be patient during the first half, it gets very good and emotional the second half. This is written in the past and present tense, which is a common scenario in many novels, but one that I enjoy. It's like reading two different novels. What starts as a dysfunctional domestic situation between 2 sisters (American born) and their Russian-born mother ends up being so much more. Grief and a deathbed promise brings these unhappy women reluctantly together, and what seemed like a familial dysfunction be Be patient during the first half, it gets very good and emotional the second half. This is written in the past and present tense, which is a common scenario in many novels, but one that I enjoy. It's like reading two different novels. What starts as a dysfunctional domestic situation between 2 sisters (American born) and their Russian-born mother ends up being so much more. Grief and a deathbed promise brings these unhappy women reluctantly together, and what seemed like a familial dysfunction becomes an intimate look at war-torn Leningrad and the atrocity of war. One cannot fathom the pain, hunger, starvation and death all around the survivors, the terror of small children being taken by train away from their parents, starving, cold and afraid. Very moving, and well written. In the present-day story the description of Sitka, in Alaska and its history was very interesting. One can easily imagine it. The characters are flawed but believable, the novel hard to forget and the ending entirely satisfying to this reader. Definitely recommended. Gloria Bernal - Murrieta, CA. ...more Just finished this stinker and I have a headache from rolling my eyes. It is disappointingly formulaic and borrows heavily from \"Sophie's Choice\", an infinitely superior novel. The writing is pedestrian. The characters are cardboard cut outs and insufferable to boot. I hate novels in which all the characters have to be beautiful. We are told over and over and over about the mother's \"astonishing eyes\" and the eldest daughter's \"curvy hips\", big eyes and \"Julia Robert's type mouth\". The younger d Just finished this stinker and I have a headache from rolling my eyes. It is disappointingly formulaic and borrows heavily from \"Sophie's Choice\", an infinitely superior novel. The writing is pedestrian. The characters are cardboard cut outs and insufferable to boot. I hate novels in which all the characters have to be beautiful. We are told over and over and over about the mother's \"astonishing eyes\" and the eldest daughter's \"curvy hips\", big eyes and \"Julia Robert's type mouth\". The younger daughter (a Pulitzer Prize winning photojournalist, yet) has a heart shaped face, black pixie haircut and \"perfect skin\". The male characters are uniformly handsome and blond. For no discernible reason, the reader is constantly subjected to descriptions of what the characters are wearing, e.g., \"She exchanged her robe and pajamas for a pair of comfortable jeans and a cable-knit turtle neck sweater\". The character's musings are repeated and restated and reworded every few pages. This stuff goes on and on. I cannot stand writing like this. The story is ridiculous, the ending absurd (and stolen from about twenty tearjerker movies that I can think of). Someone I love recommended this book to me and I stuck it out for her, but I don't recommend it to you. ...more Meredith and Nina are like chalk and cheese when it comes to being sisters. But the one thing they do have in common is the love of their father, so when he falls sick and is dying they are both at his bedside. Neither Meredith or Nina ever shared the same love for their mother, but they promise their father that they will take care of her once he is gone. After their father passes away Meredith and Nina find the following few months rather difficult and soon realize that caring for their mother Meredith and Nina are like chalk and cheese when it comes to being sisters. But the one thing they do have in common is the love of their father, so when he falls sick and is dying they are both at his bedside. Neither Meredith or Nina ever shared the same love for their mother, but they promise their father that they will take care of her once he is gone. After their father passes away Meredith and Nina find the following few months rather difficult and soon realize that caring for their mother, Anya was going to be more than a challenge than either one of them imagined it to be. Anya had never expressed much love or affection for her girls over the years, in fact, she had been quite cold toward them, but she had her reasons and she knew it was time to explain to Meredith and Nina why she'd been so cold toward them all these years. But once all is revealed, will this bring Anya and her daughters closer or will it tear them apart forever? Winter Garden is a beautifully written tale about secrets, love, war, loss and so much more. Reading about Anya's time during the war was at times was troubling and heartbreaking. It makes you realize how lucky you are if you've never had to go through such horrendous times. A very enjoyable read and well worth reading. ...more This is one of those books that reminds me how much I truly love historical fiction! Anya Whitson is a Russian immigrant who moves to the United States after marrying her American husband. Anya is very hard woman who shows no love to her two daughters, Meredith and Nina, throughout their lives. Nina is an unsettled world traveling photographer and Meredith is a workaholic wife and mother who remains home to run the family orchard and never does anything for herself, it's always for others. When Ev This is one of those books that reminds me how much I truly love historical fiction! Anya Whitson is a Russian immigrant who moves to the United States after marrying her American husband. Anya is very hard woman who shows no love to her two daughters, Meredith and Nina, throughout their lives. Nina is an unsettled world traveling photographer and Meredith is a workaholic wife and mother who remains home to run the family orchard and never does anything for herself, it's always for others. When Evan Whitson, husband to Anya and loving father to Nina and Meredith suffers a stroke and is not expected to live, he makes Anya promise to finish the fairy tales she would occasionally tell to her daughters when they were young. He also makes Meredith and Nina promise to listen to their mom and support her after he is gone. Not to give up on their mother like they have felt she had given up on them. Through shots of whiskey and much prodding, Anya slowly opens up to her daughters and begins to tell a Russian fairy tale of a handsome prince and the black knights. As the story goes on Meredith and Nina realize that perhaps this isn't just any fairy tale, could this be the key to learning of their Russian mothers past? Is this the key to their mom's ice cold heart melting and finally having a relationship with her daughters? This is my first Kristin Hannah book and I loved it. Definitely an emotional book that takes you all over the world from the past to the present. Excellent read! ...more Some themes are close to me notably stories that deal with mothers and daughters or families in general. That is a theme also dear to Kristin Hannah , from what I read of her books and especially in Winter Garden : \"They would always be a family, but if she learned anything in the past few weeks it was that a family wasn't a static thing. There were always changes going on. Like with continents, sometimes the changes were invisible and underground, and sometimes they were explosive and deadly. The Some themes are close to me notably stories that deal with mothers and daughters or families in general. That is a theme also dear to Kristin Hannah , from what I read of her books and especially in Winter Garden : \"They would always be a family, but if she learned anything in the past few weeks it was that a family wasn't a static thing. There were always changes going on. Like with continents, sometimes the changes were invisible and underground, and sometimes they were explosive and deadly. The trick was to keep your balance. You couldn't control the direction of your family any more than you could stop the continental shelf from breaking apart. All you could do was hold on for the ride.\" Winter Garden tells the story of Meredith and Nina Whitson and their supposedly heartless mother Anya. For over an extended period we get to know of Anya while she faces tremendous obstacles and disaster, but ends surviving despite all her suffering. It's not a trivial novel; it's not romantic, it is almost an epic. It's repeatedly a struggle. I think it's written to be read on a sunny day, or it might be shattering. That is how I felt from the way it impacted me, as a mother and as a sister. Despite it all, I fully enjoyed it. Hannah tells a breathtaking story, I don't comment on it feebly. It is astonishing and heartbreaking. But in the end there is hope, so all is well after all! ...more Color me surprised! I didn't have the best hopes for this book -- even though I loved The Nightingale . I thought that the rest of Kristin Hannah's books simply wouldn't measure up. While this one was not as good as Nightingale, I was surprised at how much I enjoyed (and was moved) by it. Like Nightingale, Winter Garden includes a historical and modern day story (a two-fer, as my GR friend Cathrine calls it!). The historical tale is by far the better story here, and thankfully takes up the majorit Color me surprised! I didn't have the best hopes for this book -- even though I loved The Nightingale . I thought that the rest of Kristin Hannah's books simply wouldn't measure up. While this one was not as good as Nightingale, I was surprised at how much I enjoyed (and was moved) by it. Like Nightingale, Winter Garden includes a historical and modern day story (a two-fer, as my GR friend Cathrine calls it!). The historical tale is by far the better story here, and thankfully takes up the majority of the book. There are about a million reviews of this book, so I won't summarize the plot. All I will add is that this book has me wanting to learn more about the Siege of Leningrad. And, to recommend the most excellent City of Thieves to anyone else interested in that period of history. ...more Kristin Hannah's books have been recommended to me by a lot of friends, and I love the cover arts! (Who said we can't judge a book by a cover?) Unfortunately, I read The Night Road as my first book, and did not enjoy it as much as I enjoyed works by other similar authors, namely, Picoult and Chamberlain. However, at the persuasion of more friends, I decided to give her another chance, so I chose Winter Garden as my fluff read at the end of last year to balance the stress. I was so wrong. The story Kristin Hannah's books have been recommended to me by a lot of friends, and I love the cover arts! (Who said we can't judge a book by a cover?) Unfortunately, I read The Night Road as my first book, and did not enjoy it as much as I enjoyed works by other similar authors, namely, Picoult and Chamberlain. However, at the persuasion of more friends, I decided to give her another chance, so I chose Winter Garden as my fluff read at the end of last year to balance the stress. I was so wrong. The story was about two sisters, who were never loved by their Mom growing up, so each was sad and broken in her own way, yet managed to lead a quite normal and successful life as an adult. When their Dad died, they returned home, and insisted to find the answer for their Mom's sadness and alienation. I had tears streaming down my face when I tapped the last page on my Kindle, sitting at a Barnes and Noble cafe table, with people staring at me and murmuring to each other. I was wrong. This was definitely not a fluff read and indeed something with substance. It shows us the extreme of loss and grief; the pain that comes with loss when we love too much. We protect ourselves from the same pain happening to us again...by not loving. The story also taught me a bit of history of Leningrad during WWII, although, as a Chinese with extent knowledge of communism and the Cultural Revolution, nothing surprised me under the sun. However, the story still filled me with extreme sadness, regardless of the perfect ending. So, I was wrong again by judging an author with one book. My next read will be Firefly Lane...which most of my friends loved. There's nothing I love more than stories of women friendship! ...more Emotionally-charged, epic story by Kristin Hannah Winter Garden is both heartwarming and heartbreaking. Have a box of tissues handy if you are planning to read! I picked this book up at a Used Book Sale this year -- after loving The Nightingale . Today, I just needed something different to read -- so I pulled it off the shelf. I almost couldn't put it down until it was complete! I was a bit late in picking my son up from swim practice (but traffic happens!!)... This is a story about love, surviv Emotionally-charged, epic story by Kristin Hannah Winter Garden is both heartwarming and heartbreaking. Have a box of tissues handy if you are planning to read! I picked this book up at a Used Book Sale this year -- after loving The Nightingale . Today, I just needed something different to read -- so I pulled it off the shelf. I almost couldn't put it down until it was complete! I was a bit late in picking my son up from swim practice (but traffic happens!!)... This is a story about love, survival, and repairing relationships.... I don't want to spoil the plot - so will keep additional comments brief. This book switches between two main settings - Washington, USA in early 2000's on the family orchard and Leningrad / St. Petersburg, Russia in late 1930's / early 1940's during Stalin's rise to power and then the German invasion. The older plot line is developed in the form of a fairy tale. The two are effectively interwoven together and the change in setting is easy to follow. The circumstances in Leningrad / St. Petersburg are beyond most reader's imagination, especially when the Germans have blockaded the city and food is scarce. More current plotline is of an upper middle class American family, with your standard dose of dysfunction thrown in. Why not 5 stars? While I really enjoyed this read, there were events on top of events that were just implausible.... Obviously, did not have a major impact on my enjoyment of the book -- as I devoured it today.... \u201cWe women make choices for others, not for ourselves, and when we are mothers, we...bear what we must for our children. You will protect them. It will hurt you; it will hurt them. Your job is to hide that your heart is breaking and do what they need you to do.\u201d I would highly recommend this book to readers who enjoy historical fiction. If you liked The Nightingale , consider giving this book a try. ...more Winter Garden is a mesmerizing and enchanting novel about survival, enduring love, family, and the choices that can forever haunt you. With the death of the patriarch comes the further disintegration of an already fragile bond between a distant, secretive mother and her daughters who are as different as can be. With the loss of their father, Meredith and Nina Whitson find themselves no closer to their mother at a time when they should have found comfort in one another. Instead their mother retre Winter Garden is a mesmerizing and enchanting novel about survival, enduring love, family, and the choices that can forever haunt you. With the death of the patriarch comes the further disintegration of an already fragile bond between a distant, secretive mother and her daughters who are as different as can be. With the loss of their father, Meredith and Nina Whitson find themselves no closer to their mother at a time when they should have found comfort in one another. Instead their mother retreat into her world of secrets and a haunting, unimaginable past. Having made a deathbed promise to her father to have her mother tell her fairy tale in its entirety and to the end, Nina is determined to fulfill that promise -this against a guarded sister and unwilling mother. What she does not realize is how meaningful and life-changing the story will be to her family. The fairy tale is anything but a simple tale, it is Meredith and Nina's only real connection to a mother they have never really gotten to know, having long-ago given up trying, much less understand. As the story is revealed, a dawning realization of who their mother really is, why she is the way she is, and an understanding of self come to light and thus, the three women begin a journey of self-identity. At the heart of the story is three women connected by the bonds of family who deal with grief differently and must come to terms with it. Who must learn to live on. For Anya Whitson, it means facing the ghosts of her past without the strength of her husband and learning to forgive and love. For Meredith and Nina it is understanding who their mother is without the shield of their father no longer protecting them from her indifference to them, and realizing who they are and what they want in life. The story alternate between the present and their mother's past, skillfully and meaningfully delving into historical facts and cultural traditions which bring relevance to the story. It is not just Anya's story which is compelling and heart-breaking, there is also Meredith and Nina's stories that reflect two women at crossroads in their lives. Meredith's marriage is slowly unravelling without love to support it or knowing how to get that love back. Nina's career no longer excites her, instead her exhaustion highlight her loneliness and longing to be loved but not daring to let herself be. Like the butterfly piece that is passed down from Anya's mother to herself and later her own daughter, it represent the gradual evolution of the three women who had begun a journey as strangers but at the end discovers who they really are and truly become a family. ...more Three and a half stars. Hard to write a review about this one as I had a few different thoughts. But here goes. Parts of this story about two sisters and their Russian immigrant mother were very interesting. Sometimes I had to put it aside for a while because I couldn\u2019t bear to read too much of the 1940s Leningrad stories at once. Some of the images, about a time I knew little about, were harrowing. It made me so thankful I have never lived through a world war and the tragedies that result. Other Three and a half stars. Hard to write a review about this one as I had a few different thoughts. But here goes. Parts of this story about two sisters and their Russian immigrant mother were very interesting. Sometimes I had to put it aside for a while because I couldn\u2019t bear to read too much of the 1940s Leningrad stories at once. Some of the images, about a time I knew little about, were harrowing. It made me so thankful I have never lived through a world war and the tragedies that result. Other times I couldn\u2019t bear to the book aside at all and had to keep reading but that was once I got further into the novel. Initially I wasn\u2019t sure about it. The mother is a very cold and aloof person who seems to show no love to her daughters. I found her hard to relate to, until her story and past is revealed. Meredith and Nina also were hard to like. Meredith is a closed off sort of person, afraid to show emotion and Nina came across as selfish, with no regard for family. But circumstances contrive that the three women are left in a situation where they need to get to know each other. It is a story about the choices people make, the suffering they endure and how that impacts not only on their life but on others as well. I do admit to having the odd tear at times as the story progressed. I liked the idea of the fairy tale element that runs through the novel. The ending reflects that fairy tale feel. To me it seems just a little too contrived but maybe that\u2019s me. ...more As Meredith and Nina's father lies dying he extracts a promise from his grown daughters that they will get to know and take care of their frail mother Vera (Anya) and that in return she will tell them the ending of a tale that they have never completely heard. This is harder than expected as Vera has been a cold distant mother and her daughters have always felt loved only by their father. However as the harrowing story of her previous life in war-torn Leningrad unfolds the past begins to mingle As Meredith and Nina's father lies dying he extracts a promise from his grown daughters that they will get to know and take care of their frail mother Vera (Anya) and that in return she will tell them the ending of a tale that they have never completely heard. This is harder than expected as Vera has been a cold distant mother and her daughters have always felt loved only by their father. However as the harrowing story of her previous life in war-torn Leningrad unfolds the past begins to mingle with the present and unlocks the possibility for them to rebuild their relationships. A little predictable , but still an enjoyable book combining historical fiction and the great opportunities to be found in second chances. 3.5 stars Jan - KUYH selection ...more I have just turned the last page,cleared my throat from holding back tears, and set this beautiful novel on my night stand. Let my review begin... At the beginning I thought some of the dialogue was cheesy, but I could see a story developing. I didn't know until about half way through what an amazing, haunting, mesmerizing story awaited. The way Hannah wrote Vera's story was so vivid I felt I played the character of Vera's shadow and felt every emotion and saw the world through her eyes. It was i I have just turned the last page,cleared my throat from holding back tears, and set this beautiful novel on my night stand. Let my review begin... At the beginning I thought some of the dialogue was cheesy, but I could see a story developing. I didn't know until about half way through what an amazing, haunting, mesmerizing story awaited. The way Hannah wrote Vera's story was so vivid I felt I played the character of Vera's shadow and felt every emotion and saw the world through her eyes. It was incredible. P.S. The cover of this book is breathtaking! Please everyone read this book and be blown away! :) ...more Ufff ahora lo termino y todav\u00eda tengo los sentimientos a flor de piel! Otra joya la que ha escrito Kristin Hannah, como ya hizo con El Ruise\u00f1or, nos transporta a la segunda guerra mundial donde nos hace sentir los horribles sucesos que tuvieron que vivir muchas personas. Los personajes se te meten debajo de la piel y puedes sentir su dolor. Pero tambi\u00e9n puedes sentir la fuerza, el amor, la superaci\u00f3n, muchos valores que se potencian en esta gran historia y que hacen que se convierta en un NOVEL\u00d3 Ufff ahora lo termino y todav\u00eda tengo los sentimientos a flor de piel! Otra joya la que ha escrito Kristin Hannah, como ya hizo con El Ruise\u00f1or, nos transporta a la segunda guerra mundial donde nos hace sentir los horribles sucesos que tuvieron que vivir muchas personas. Los personajes se te meten debajo de la piel y puedes sentir su dolor. Pero tambi\u00e9n puedes sentir la fuerza, el amor, la superaci\u00f3n, muchos valores que se potencian en esta gran historia y que hacen que se convierta en un NOVEL\u00d3N! Al principio le cuesta un poquito entrar en materia, pero vale la pena seguir leyendo, no os pod\u00e9is perder esta historia. Preparad pa\u00f1uelos, en el \u00faltimo tramo de la novela las l\u00e1grimas no paran de caer. ...more My daughter recommended Kristin Hannah's book, Winter Garden, to me. As my daughter said, \"Mom, I don't think you would have liked Kristin's other books, because they're light reading for housewives. But I think you might like this book, because it's complex and has a historical bent to it.\" So, I decided to read Winter Garden, and I'm very glad that I did. The story tells of two sisters, who lead very disparate lives, but are forced to deal with each other and their mother, who had always been v My daughter recommended Kristin Hannah's book, Winter Garden, to me. As my daughter said, \"Mom, I don't think you would have liked Kristin's other books, because they're light reading for housewives. But I think you might like this book, because it's complex and has a historical bent to it.\" So, I decided to read Winter Garden, and I'm very glad that I did. The story tells of two sisters, who lead very disparate lives, but are forced to deal with each other and their mother, who had always been very emotionally negligent and cold to them, when their father dies. The mother breaks down, because - while she'd been cold and distant to her daughters, she'd been very close and warm and loving to her husband. The sisters could never quite figure out what they'd done to cause their mother to withhold her love from them, when it was obvious - by her treatment of their father - that she was very capable of loving. Why couldn't she love her daughters? What the daughters don't know and don't find out about until after their father dies, is that their Russian-born mother had lived through the hideous Siege of Leningrad and her grief and guilt about what she had to do to stay alive kept her distant from her American-born children. Now, as adults, the daughters force their mother to open up to them, which she does, telling them stories in the form of a fairy tale, until the daughters realize that she's telling a true, horrifying story. I won't say any more than this, as I don't want to give away details, but I will say that I was deeply moved by Winter Garden, and amazingly, at the end of the book, I had tears in my eyes. I have not cried reading a book since the late '90s/early 2000s, when I read A Prayer for Owen Meany. Winter Garden is not the first book I've read that discusses the Siege of Leningrad; plus, I'm familiar with this period of time, from reading about it, from a historical standpoint. I've always admired the people that survived this brutal period. I don't know how they did it. But Winter Garden does tell how one woman survived, even if she didn't begin to live again, until her final few years. ...more I may be unfairly harsh on this book because it is not my preferred reading. This is a recycled story. A woman endures overwhelming trauma as a young adult and emotionally shuts down in order to survive. But, the pain carried in secret, crushes her relationship with daughters. It is only when the adult daughter can learn the mother\u2019s story that empathy can grow and affection can flow between the generations. This is The Bone Setter\u2019s Daughter with the substitution of Russia for China. Only, this I may be unfairly harsh on this book because it is not my preferred reading. This is a recycled story. A woman endures overwhelming trauma as a young adult and emotionally shuts down in order to survive. But, the pain carried in secret, crushes her relationship with daughters. It is only when the adult daughter can learn the mother\u2019s story that empathy can grow and affection can flow between the generations. This is The Bone Setter\u2019s Daughter with the substitution of Russia for China. Only, this version of the story has the feel of a screen play targeting the women in Opra\u2019s audience. The present day sections of this story could be titled Women Are Snow Leopards; Men are Cocker Spaniels. The three women, mother and two adult daughters, all seem to suffer from emotional constipation. No matter how much they want to express affection, they just can\u2019t get it out. The only thing that does manage to pass on occasion are ice cubes. The three men on the other hand, the partners of each of these women, suffer from emotional diarrhea: their affection is hot, runny, and limitless even when not wanted. Maybe too many women want a partner who will make tender, passionate love at every encounter, who will tell them non-stop how much they are loved, even while being pushed away, who never gets angry or critical or impatient, but no human being is like this, unless a lobotomy has been performed. If you are going to re-tell a story, I would think it should offer something new to the reader, something that makes the effort to read and write it worthwhile. This is a fluffier version of Amy Tann\u2019s novel with a far less realistic present day setting. I suspect that this author envisioned this being turned into a movie; otherwise why all the repetitious tangerine skies and striking blue eyes against white hair. These irrelevant flowery descriptions must be set directions. This book needed to be at least 100 pages shorter. ...more Kristin Hannah never fails to bring a story together full of history and wonderful characters. The Winter Garden is no exception. The historical facts behind this book are ones I was not familiar with...the siege of Leningrad at the end of WW2. There were so many areas of destruction with this war and I have been introduced to so many aspects of it through several novels of late. Nina and Merideth are sisters who adored the father that was their whole world. They return home as he becomes ill a Kristin Hannah never fails to bring a story together full of history and wonderful characters. The Winter Garden is no exception. The historical facts behind this book are ones I was not familiar with...the siege of Leningrad at the end of WW2. There were so many areas of destruction with this war and I have been introduced to so many aspects of it through several novels of late. Nina and Merideth are sisters who adored the father that was their whole world. They return home as he becomes ill and is dying and promise him that they will take care of the Mother they have never felt loved them. Over the next months they struggle to understand this woman and fulfill the promise they made to their father. Their Mother has also made a promise, to finish the fairy tale she often told them as children. But it is not a fairy tale, but the story of her life before she met their father. The sad and heartbreaking story of Vera and her family who lived in Leningrad at the end of WW 2. Of her struggles, and hopes and losses. Of why she never dared to love her children and risk the heartbreak she had felt before. This is beautifully written and the narrative goes back and forth from present day to the early 1940's in Russia at the end of the war. Tragic. There is no other word for what these people....mostly women and children went through to survive. And few did. This is the story of three women, who finally connect and learn to understand each other. I listened to the audio of this and the narration was exceptional. I could feel the bitter cold, the hunger, smell the stench and visualize the vast hopelessness that was Vera's world. Excellent historical fiction. ...more Not my usual type of read, but I won this book in a Goodreads First Reads giveaway and started on it right away. To be honest, I almost put it down at the beginning because I didn't like many of the characters, especially Meredith who pretty much turned me off instantly. Though I did eventually find myself caught up in Meredith and Jeff's story, the floundering relationship between two people who were childhood sweethearts - could their cold marriage turn warm again? But at the heart of the book Not my usual type of read, but I won this book in a Goodreads First Reads giveaway and started on it right away. To be honest, I almost put it down at the beginning because I didn't like many of the characters, especially Meredith who pretty much turned me off instantly. Though I did eventually find myself caught up in Meredith and Jeff's story, the floundering relationship between two people who were childhood sweethearts - could their cold marriage turn warm again? But at the heart of the book is Vera's story, and that kept me turning pages. If the book had been only that story without the present storylines of the daughters and their relationships/lives it would have been worth the read as well. I admit, It was hard for me to imagine someone knowing so little about their mother's past as Meredith and Nina knew about their mother. Having let the her reach old age before finally pushing to know her better was a bit tough for me to wrap my mind around, despite how the prologue portrayed their childhood. Still, the book was an entertaining read and I appreciated getting an ARC copy and being able to try a book outside my usual reading material. ...more I picked this book for two reasons, one- I recently read The Nightingale by Kristin Hannah, and after it being one of the best books I read lately, I was eager for more! The other reason I picked this book out of her many best sellers was the WWII subject (yea, no surprise here, if you know me a little bit). So, what went wrong FOR ME was, that it wasn't like the blurb suggested- a story about two sisters learning their mother's story about what happened to her in Leningrad during the blockage, it I picked this book for two reasons, one- I recently read The Nightingale by Kristin Hannah, and after it being one of the best books I read lately, I was eager for more! The other reason I picked this book out of her many best sellers was the WWII subject (yea, no surprise here, if you know me a little bit). So, what went wrong FOR ME was, that it wasn't like the blurb suggested- a story about two sisters learning their mother's story about what happened to her in Leningrad during the blockage, it was more of a story about a mother's mistakes and redemption, about the lives of two sisters, growing up with a mother who is disfunctional, and what it is doing to her family. The story about the Leningrad siege starts very late in the book (around 50%) and by that time I was already so tired, bored and annoyed that it failed to \"touch\" me like I \"need\" in the genre. The women in this book made me want to scream at how unemotional they where, and how they treated the good men around them. Maybe if I knew in advance what I'm about to read, it wouldn't have felt like the first 50% was just a loooong introduction that I wanted to skip! I would have enjoy it more. BUT, I CANT RECOMMEND \"The Nightingale\" ENOUGH!! READ IT!! ...more BLECH. My sister got my hopes up, oddly, when she said this was chick lit disguised as intellectual - but I couldn't even find the disguise! This book fell into the category of those home spin wonders of Eileen Gouge and other women who either watch too much of the wrong TV or read the wrong books or something. This had all the things I could hate about a book - writing like, - she worked hard to be the mother her mother wasn't. And she succeeded. She was best friends with her daughters. Or, bette BLECH. My sister got my hopes up, oddly, when she said this was chick lit disguised as intellectual - but I couldn't even find the disguise! This book fell into the category of those home spin wonders of Eileen Gouge and other women who either watch too much of the wrong TV or read the wrong books or something. This had all the things I could hate about a book - writing like, - she worked hard to be the mother her mother wasn't. And she succeeded. She was best friends with her daughters. Or, better yet, after Hannah chooses the super original pathology of having her characters be people who run from conflict or emotional turmoil, she makes sure to tell you. Over and Over. GAAAAAAAAAAH. This had nothing to redeem itself. Over the top surly Russian mom who hates her daughters but loves her super husband. Super husband who somehow overlooks a lot of emotional abuse and neglect. Stupid twin sisters who have no personality and nothing interesting or original. Irish boyfriend who has to use the words 'brilliant' 'love' and dropped g's at the end of verbs so we REALLY get that he is Irish. This was trash. ...more I was saddened to read some of the reviews calling this story trash. I think having read The Bronze Horseman series about this very tragic time in Russia's history gave me a better understanding and appreciation of what the mother went through, how it haunted her her entire life and made her so hardened and cold and how that affected her daughters and their lives. I loved the fairytale element that was woven throughout and the journey of all of the characters finding themselves and each other. I I was saddened to read some of the reviews calling this story trash. I think having read The Bronze Horseman series about this very tragic time in Russia's history gave me a better understanding and appreciation of what the mother went through, how it haunted her her entire life and made her so hardened and cold and how that affected her daughters and their lives. I loved the fairytale element that was woven throughout and the journey of all of the characters finding themselves and each other. It was an emotional, heartbreaking read for me, shining a light on not only what war, tragedy and loss can do to a person, but what secrets can do to a family. ...more If I could, I would give the first half of this book 1 star, from about the middle until the final chapter 5 stars, and the final chapter 3 stars - - - so I guess that, all in all, the 3 star rating is probably the most accurate. This is the second Kristin Hannah book I have read where I have actively DISLIKED the main characters throughout the first half of the book (the other was \"True Colors\"). Nina and Meredith are the daughters, Anya is the mother - - -and as someone said in an earlier revi If I could, I would give the first half of this book 1 star, from about the middle until the final chapter 5 stars, and the final chapter 3 stars - - - so I guess that, all in all, the 3 star rating is probably the most accurate. This is the second Kristin Hannah book I have read where I have actively DISLIKED the main characters throughout the first half of the book (the other was \"True Colors\"). Nina and Meredith are the daughters, Anya is the mother - - -and as someone said in an earlier review, I had the greatest urge to smack all three of them. Frankly, I deal with enough anger in my daily life to desire having those same feelings when I read. And, on top of it all, the first half of the book becomes nothing more than a major repetition of the same ugly qualities that made me angry with the women to begin with. Now - - that being said - - -the second half of the book, particularly Hannah's retelling of the siege of Leningrad, is fabulous. Unlike other non-fiction accounts of this horrible period of Russian history, this was no detached, emotionless telling of the hundreds of thousands who literally starved to death. Hannah uses the characters of Vera, Sasha and their children to bring that horror and pain to life, and to illuminate the reasons for the cold reserve adopted by the mother toward Nina and Meredith. This section is marvelous. But then we ramble on toward the final chapter. I once again agreed with an earlier reviewer; the years of neglect and cold silence would take me a LOT longer than a single cruise to eradicate, and the final tie-in with the fairy tale story was far too neat and tidy to be believable. Hannah's writing seems almost schizophrenic to me - - at times, it seems that she's content with writing the lighter chick lit that started her career on its path to the top. At other times, she seems to want to delve into the darker side of people's anger, insecurities, and general psyche. In between these two extremes, she weaves an absolutely fascinating story that nestles somewhere in the middle of the novel. If you don't mind and you have the time and patience to slosh through the rest of the book, there is something very worthwhile here. ...more Ha sido desgarrador a la vez que precioso. Al principio le cost\u00f3 arrancar a la trama pero llega un momento en el que no pude parar de leer. Parece incre\u00edble que esta autora lo haya vuelto a hacer. Remueve sentimientos con cada giro... I want to slap myself for not reading this sooner. It was so emotional and very reminiscent of The Bronze Horseman. I loved it! More like 2.5 stars. I listened to this on CD. The first half gets too bogged down in mundane details. There are too many chapters when we are told that Meredith goes for a run, Meredith sits on the porch with her coffee, Meredith feeds the dogs, Meredith treats her husband coldly, Meredith is frustrated and hurt by her mother. Yes, we get the point already. Meredith's life is mundane and not what she dreamed it would be. Get on with the story! The story within the story, the so-called Fairy Tale More like 2.5 stars. I listened to this on CD. The first half gets too bogged down in mundane details. There are too many chapters when we are told that Meredith goes for a run, Meredith sits on the porch with her coffee, Meredith feeds the dogs, Meredith treats her husband coldly, Meredith is frustrated and hurt by her mother. Yes, we get the point already. Meredith's life is mundane and not what she dreamed it would be. Get on with the story! The story within the story, the so-called Fairy Tale, is quite compelling, telling a personal account of the siege of Leningrad in WWII. This is the real meat of this book, but that doesn't get rolling until the second half of the book. I wish the author had just written straight historical fiction of only the Leningrad part and left all the present-day stuff out of it. I did find the ending too implausible to be a tear-jerker. I rolled my eyes when I think I was supposed to cry. Couple of irritations: these women are always wrapping themselves in blankets to go sit outside in the middle of the winter. Please buy yourselves coats and leave the blankets on the bed! One or two occurrences I could have looked over, but this happens in so many scenes! Also, there is one scene where the older sister, Meredith, remembers that her younger sister, Nina, who is a famous photojournalist, skipped out on Meredith's wedding 20 years earlier because there was an assassination in India she had to cover. Check your details, author and editor: Nina was 17 when Meredith got married. ...more 5 big stars!!! I haven't cried this much since I finished Gone With The Wind! Going into this book, I really had no idea what it was going to be about; I'm not a huge synopsis reader. All I knew was that Kristin Hannah wrote it and most everybody in my book club loves her. Now I know why she is so popular. Through her brilliantly, flawless writing, is a story that hits directly at your heart... and keeps tugging and twisting at it until the very end. The beginning of the book was on the slower si 5 big stars!!! I haven't cried this much since I finished Gone With The Wind! Going into this book, I really had no idea what it was going to be about; I'm not a huge synopsis reader. All I knew was that Kristin Hannah wrote it and most everybody in my book club loves her. Now I know why she is so popular. Through her brilliantly, flawless writing, is a story that hits directly at your heart... and keeps tugging and twisting at it until the very end. The beginning of the book was on the slower side, setting the stage for things to come. At this time though, I was already connecting with the characters. I too have a younger sister and could see lots of Nina's personality and adventure in her, just like I could see lots of Meredith's personality and settled lifestyle in myself. So many of the sister's interactions were almost mirror images our own. About halfway through the book, I couldn't put it down. When Anya was telling her fairy-tale story I was a captured audience and totally engrossed. My emotions ran the gambit through Anya's story, from love to hope, pain to grief, unspeakable loss to redemption. Needless to say, this is one amazing book and I highly recommend it! ...more I cried buckets reading this story. The mother's story is revealed and is heart wrenching. I was disappointed by the ending because it seemed too much like a fairy tale. I highly recommend the book anyway. It gets 5 stars because I cried so much. I even woke the baby one night while I was sobbing. I would give it 4 stars for the writing style and the disappointing schmaltz at the end. This week\u2019s headline? mom and daughters Why this book? recommended by mom Which book format? kindle enhanced version Primary reading environment? vacation with mom Any preconceived notions? high-strung, emotional Identify most with? urge to run Three little words? \u201cMom turned slowly\u201d Goes well with? meal at Veselka Recommend this to? boyfriend (for recipes) Two weeks ago, I sent my mom a copy of an application essay, and her response was enthusiastically supportive, something along the lines of \"Why do y This week\u2019s headline? mom and daughters Why this book? recommended by mom Which book format? kindle enhanced version Primary reading environment? vacation with mom Any preconceived notions? high-strung, emotional Identify most with? urge to run Three little words? \u201cMom turned slowly\u201d Goes well with? meal at Veselka Recommend this to? boyfriend (for recipes) Two weeks ago, I sent my mom a copy of an application essay, and her response was enthusiastically supportive, something along the lines of \"Why do you ever doubt yourself? You are a good writer!\" Then, on her recommendation, I start reading this book. She tells me the writing really impressed her. And I start to doubt myself all over again. If my mom considers this to be good writing, then \u2013 holy crap \u2013 my essay is totally landing in the rejection pile. It's bad. Baaaaaaad. I laughed out loud at some of the most \"dramatic\" parts of the story. Then I got around to crying, not for the characters, but because it actually is like my writing. The Irish boyfriend, with his nose broken from too many pub fights as a lad? Nina hiding behind her camera through the first half of the book? The ridiculous nickname Meredoodle, which is neither cute nor time-saving? Although I don't like to talk about it much, the novel I've got hidden in my top desk drawer has similar features. Whenever I dare to disturb its resting place, it stares at me with a pair of mismatched eyes and croaks \u201cMama\u201d as I shudder and slide the drawer closed. You can't escape your family though, can you? I'm sure my mom, and many like her, connected with Meredith burning the candle at both ends and losing her identity in motherhood, like Patty Berglund in Freedom . And this scene with Nina: \"We're Russian,\" Nina said suddenly, looking at Meredith. \"How come I never thought about that before?\" I can actually see my sister sitting at the kitchen table and saying those very lines... if we were Russian. So who does that make me? Their mother? Struggling with the art of storytelling and making everyone miserable? Other cultural accompaniments: Atonement by Ian McEwan (2001), Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist (2008). Grade: B I leave you with this: \"The more we connect with each other, the more we share our burdens, the stronger we become individually.\" -Kristin Hannah ...more This book was actually abandoned in our apartment complex library. (Something that is done by the residents, once they are finished with a book and wish to pass it on.) I seriously doubt that I would have made a decision to read it otherwise. It is quite a departure from my chosen reading genres. And c'mon, its cover was just crying to fit a Winter challenge somewhere! Still it was a very good book, and I am glad that I decided to read it. Just reminds me that I need to stretch my legs occasiona This book was actually abandoned in our apartment complex library. (Something that is done by the residents, once they are finished with a book and wish to pass it on.) I seriously doubt that I would have made a decision to read it otherwise. It is quite a departure from my chosen reading genres. And c'mon, its cover was just crying to fit a Winter challenge somewhere! Still it was a very good book, and I am glad that I decided to read it. Just reminds me that I need to stretch my legs occasionally. ...more", "Title": "Winter Garden"},
