{"Comments": "I really wanted to love this book. I couldn't tell you why, but I wanted this one to be a triumph. But, considering it took countless small bursts of very reluctant reading over the course of the entire fall to get through it, I have to classify this one as a total bust. Even more disappointing still is that I don't even have a great reason other than to say that it was just bad! The first and foremost problem here is that the narrator is a total disaster. Sam is a convicted arsonist who, through I really wanted to love this book. I couldn't tell you why, but I wanted this one to be a triumph. But, considering it took countless small bursts of very reluctant reading over the course of the entire fall to get through it, I have to classify this one as a total bust. Even more disappointing still is that I don't even have a great reason other than to say that it was just bad! The first and foremost problem here is that the narrator is a total disaster. Sam is a convicted arsonist who,<---M> through some stroke of luck</---M>, has managed to create a decent life for himself prior to the start of the book. Before the first five pages are up, you can tell that Sam is whining, snively, spineless, and very much a bore. But, something happens, and as the book progresses and he lets his world spin out of control, it comes to the point where you realize that if you didn't care so little about his life (<---B>and the book</---B>), you'd want to punch him. The plot is also implausible - full of stock characters whose predictable actions drive the story to an ending you definitely could expect. Everything just seemed too forced to be creative or interesting, yet not forced enough to the point where the campiness could've been entertaining in and of itself. I kept hoping that Clarke had some sort of gimmick lying in wait, ready to satisfy readers who put up with the novel - but no, nothing. Wouldn't it have spiced things up if at the very end, you had found out that this was all a dream? Or maybe a paranoid rant from the looney bin? I am having a great deal of trouble understanding why this has managed to get so much intelligista acclaim, while being panned consistently by regular readers. Did the critics really get through the whole mess? I'll give this doozy one star, for being able to pull the wool over their eyes (and, okay, fine, because the book jacket is clever). ...more You know, I really considered giving up on this about sixty pages in, and I probably should have; it never got any better.<---F> It was just so un-compelling</---F>. And the main character was really unlikeable, which drives me nuts. It reminded me of A Confederacy of Dunces , which I don't remember much but definitely remember hating; this had the same kind of bumbling, not-very-smart protagonist who just doesn't seem to get why bad things keep happening to him. He was so whiny and stupid and boring. Why sho You know, I really considered giving up on this about sixty pages in, and I probably should have; it never got any better. It was just so un-compelling. And the main character was really unlikeable, which drives me nuts. It reminded me of A Confederacy of Dunces , which I don't remember much but definitely remember hating; this had the same kind of bumbling, not-very-smart protagonist who just doesn't seem to get why bad things keep happening to him. He was so whiny and stupid and boring. Why should I go on a three-hundred-page journey with someone I can't stand? The other thing that drove me absolutely crazy about this book was that the narrative kept doubling over on itself, like in the middle of describing some kind of action or reaction, it would start to discuss broader ideas and concepts, like \"For those of us who've lost it, love is also the thing that makes us speak in aphorisms about love, which is why we try to get love back, so we can stop speaking that way. Aphoristically, that is.\" What? That's both convoluted and incredibly insipid. There were all these \"realizations\" or like comments on the human condition or something, which were uninspired and uninteresting and really just served to distract me from the uninspired and uninteresting plot. It reminded me, strangely, of one of my most favorite books ever, Daniel Handler's Adverbs , where he does a similar kind of thing, but with achingly beautiful metaphors, and with ideas that are thrilling and original and wonderful and sad. <---A>Brock Clarke</---A> is no Daniel Handler, is what I'm trying to say. And speaking of the writing? Ugh. Here is a convolutedly stupid metaphor, which happens right after our, uh, \"hero\" has relieved himself after needing to pee for a long time, and someone has just told him that he doesn't have any money. Says our \"hero\": \"I empathized: his lack of money weighed heavily on him and he needed relief from it, his poverty being to his vessel what my pee had just been to mine.\" Ew. Idiotic. Here's one more quote, which combines bad writing with bad allusions with bad ideas: \"I know nothing about her, not even her name, although I think about her all the time, the way you do about people and things which change your life forever \u2013- although I doubt she thinks about me, which is the way life works, which is why I'm sure Noah couldn't ever stop thinking about his Flood, but once the water receded, I'm sure it didn't once think about him.\" What? Monumentally stupid. Just like this whole monumentally stupid book. ...more 1.5 stars What an incendiary turd this was... This seemed more the output from a sadistic creative writing class assignment, requiring Its MFA hopefuls to build a novel around a computerized random idea-generated premise, than anything Brock Clarke could've dreamed up. I absolutely loved his novel Exley , but this one, \"AAGTWHINE\", was much too convoluted, even for my predilection for quirky fiction. This book is a really fun read without being a frivolous read. In fact, the author takes on a myriad of dark themes, but in the voice of his main character, Sam Pulsifer, has a way of making even the most atrocious goings-on seem hilariously funny. Sam is a self-confessed bumbler, habitual liar, and accidental arsonist, and yet in the hands of Brock Clarke, somehow none of that seems unusual. And believe me, that's not the half of the unusual aspects of this book and its characters. Like Irving This book is a really fun read without being a frivolous read. In fact, the author takes on a myriad of dark themes, but in the voice of his main character, Sam Pulsifer, has a way of making even the most atrocious goings-on seem hilariously funny. Sam is a self-confessed bumbler, habitual liar, and accidental arsonist, and yet in the hands of Brock Clarke, somehow none of that seems unusual. And believe me, that's not the half of the unusual aspects of this book and its characters. Like Irving or Vonnegut or Richard Russo at his most inventive, never once do we question the believability of any of Clarke's characters or the wacky shenanigans that occur in these pages. And that's doubly interesting, because much of the book has to do with authors and their characters, and a continual debate about which ones seem more like \"real people.\" For me, this book was a big, raucous, crazy, poignant, shocking, lovable atrocity that you miss the second it's over. ...more I loved this absurdly funny little book and I had to go ahead and take the one star off of my rating because some of the things Clarke writes and that our main character Sam conveys, are true enough to make you want to crawl away and hide. And you know, I just gave five stars to the last book I reviewed and I'm not trying to earn a reputation here. Besides, it's not like anyone's reading this. Except you. A few favorites- \"After all, wasn't this what college was all about? Emptying your mind of th I loved this absurdly funny little book and I had to go ahead and take the one star off of my rating because some of the things Clarke writes and that our main character Sam conveys, are true enough to make you want to crawl away and hide. And you know, I just gave five stars to the last book I reviewed and I'm not trying to earn a reputation here. Besides, it's not like anyone's reading this. Except you. A few favorites- \"After all, wasn't this what college was all about? Emptying your mind of the things you didn't want to remember and filling your mind up with new things before the old, unwanted things could find their way back in?\" -p.10 \"In my experience, you can't expect love to be unaffected by pity, nor would you want it to be.\" -p.15 \"You think we'd die from the constant pain of our mental inferiority, except that most of the time we're too stupid to feel it.\" -p.45 \"I hadn't read the book, of course, but as far as I could tell, neither had anyone else, and besides, that wasn't what it was there for: the book was there to give the women (mostly) a reason to confess to feelings they'd already had before reading the book, which as far as I could tell they hadn't actually read.\" -p.85 ...more This was a great story with an interesting narrative style, ruined by yet another pinball protagonist. I'm sick of novelists annoying me with characters that bounce around while people do things around them and especially to them. Instead of acting, they choose the path of silence, the path of not doing anything. For instance, every chance the protagonist gets to make a choice--- especially an important one, he does nothing at all. The worst part is that this bullshit indecisiveness is usually p This was a great story with an interesting narrative style, ruined by yet another pinball protagonist. I'm sick of novelists annoying me with characters that bounce around while people do things around them and especially to them. Instead of acting, they choose the path of silence, the path of not doing anything. For instance, every chance the protagonist gets to make a choice--- especially an important one, he does nothing at all. The worst part is that this bullshit indecisiveness is usually put down to some characteristic trait of indecisiveness (or in this case, \"bumbling\"). Maybe the style these days is to write protagonists that might as well not even be there. I get that making no choice is still a choice. But that's not a new lesson; remember that old Rush song? \"If you choose not to decide, you still have made choice!\" Still, there's a heartwarming message we can get from this: Even if you do nothing, and coast through your life, trying hard not to make waves, your (in)actions still have effects on the people around you. You don't have to change the world to change the world. But please, deliver us this idea in an essay, not another freakin' novel. ...more I have to admit, I think I was expecting something completely different out of this book. It started out well enough: Sam Pulsifer, a native of Amherst, Massachusetts, \"accidentally\" burned down the Emily Dickinson house when he was eighteen. He has, since then, served his time (seven years in a minimum security prision, hanging out with corrupt bond analysts), gone to college (he has a degree in packaging science... he helped invent the zip loc bag), gotten married (to a tall woman named Anne Ma I have to admit, I think I was expecting something completely different out of this book. It started out well enough: Sam Pulsifer, a native of Amherst, Massachusetts, \"accidentally\" burned down the Emily Dickinson house when he was eighteen. He has, since then, served his time (seven years in a minimum security prision, hanging out with corrupt bond analysts), gone to college (he has a degree in packaging science... he helped invent the zip loc bag), gotten married (to a tall woman named Anne Marie who is probably too pretty for him) and had two kids (Katherine and Christian). All is well, until one day where, through a strange chain of events, Sam is accused of cheating on his wife (which he didn't do), gets kicked out of his own house, and moves back in with his parents (of whom he didn't speak to his family... he told them his parents died in a house fire... a lie that will prove to be ironic in multiple ways later on). And then, for no apparent reason, writers' homes around New England mysteriously begin to catch fire... and it wasn't Sam! I guess my biggest problem with this novel is the fact that Sam is not terribly likeable. He is a self-professed bumbler, and when he bumbles it's not cute, or funny. It's frustrating. The story had potential, and, for the most part, I enjoyed the story. But I won't be reading it again any time soon. ...more I picked this one up because it had a lot of great reviews. That'll teach me. There have been few books that have given me less likable characters, or storyline. The initial idea is a really good one, and I really hoped for some sort of saving grace in it all, but I never once found myself rooting for the protagonist, he was merely protagonizing to read about. If ever there were a book I'd warn people against reading this would be it (or Jpod by Coupland, but don't get me started on that just ye I picked this one up because it had a lot of great reviews. That'll teach me. There have been few books that have given me less likable characters, or storyline. The initial idea is a really good one, and I really hoped for some sort of saving grace in it all, but I never once found myself rooting for the protagonist, he was merely protagonizing to read about. If ever there were a book I'd warn people against reading this would be it (or Jpod by Coupland, but don't get me started on that just yet) I'd avoid this one iffin I were youse. ...more \u201cAn Arsonist\u2019s Guide to Writer\u2019s Homes in New England\u201d is the odyssey of Sam Pulsifer, a perpetual but completely accidental ne\u2019er do well. His life story is rather convoluted, so suffice it to say that he snuck into the Emily Dickinson home one fateful night, eager to check out the veracity of several spooky stories his mother told him growing up, and unwittingly started a mighty conflagration that reduced the historic landmark to rubble and killed the amorous couple he did not know was inside. \u201cAn Arsonist\u2019s Guide to Writer\u2019s Homes in New England\u201d is the odyssey of Sam Pulsifer, a perpetual but completely accidental ne\u2019er do well. His life story is rather convoluted, so suffice it to say that he snuck into the Emily Dickinson home one fateful night, eager to check out the veracity of several spooky stories his mother told him growing up, and unwittingly started a mighty conflagration that reduced the historic landmark to rubble and killed the amorous couple he did not know was inside. Fifteen years later, Pulsifer has gotten out of prison and started his life anew in a new town. Everything seems to be going well, until Thomas Coleman, the son of the couple he accidentally killed, shows up on his doorstep eager for revenge. And someone starts torching the homes of famous writers in New England, causing the police to investigate Pulsifer. And the life he has worked so hard to build starts coming apart at the seams. Brock Clarke is a capable enough writer, and he certainly has a great deal of wit. The problem is that he has too much of it, and he just can\u2019t seem to stop showing it off. He suffers from a serious case of \u2018too-muchness\u2019. Each chapter is drowning in absurd plot twists and cock-eyed reasoning that digs Pulsifer deeper and deeper into his own private hell. And it gets very painful by the halfway point of \u201cArsonist\u201d. Just look at the title of this novel; it\u2019s kind of cute and amusing, if a wee bit pretentious. Now imagine getting beaten over the head with that kind of humor for 303 pages and you have an idea of what it is to slog through this book. It\u2019s relentless!! The plot gets so ridiculously contrived by page fifty that you\u2019ll have a headache from slapping your head and asking \u201che did WHAT?\u201d after Pulsifer\u2019s latest egregious misstep. Honestly, bumbling doesn't begin to describe him -- even Inspector Clouseau would think Sam Pulsifer is insane, and that says a lot. Making what by all rights could have been a light-hearted romp irritating and painful. It\u2019s a shame. ...more I'd give this 3.75 stars. On sheer nerve, the author brings us to an alternate reality where the Emily Dickinson home is no more and many other author's homes are doomed to the same fate by a suspect host of quirky individuals that fill these pages. I'm surprised by all the negative reviews on this book. I'd like to restrain myself from sounding like a reading snob, I can't help but think they just didn't \"get it.\" It is full of self-depreciating humor that, true, is sometimes so painful and close I'd give this 3.75 stars. On sheer nerve, the author brings us to an alternate reality where the Emily Dickinson home is no more and many other author's homes are doomed to the same fate by a suspect host of quirky individuals that fill these pages. I'm surprised by all the negative reviews on this book. I'd like to restrain myself from sounding like a reading snob, I can't help but think they just didn't \"get it.\" It is full of self-depreciating humor that, true, is sometimes so painful and close to reality you may find yourself groaning in sympathy rather than popping off a chortle of two. I often found myself mentally shouting in frustration at the foolish choices that many of the characters made for love, revenge, self-aggrandizement or merely survival. It really gets your emotions involved here and leaves you wondering what you might do if you found yourself in such situations. The Writer-in-Residence at the Mark Twain house seemed to describe protagonist Sam Pulsifer best after he tells his story. You'll have to read that for yourself. Stick with Sam. The book has some language here & there with one chapter being particularly uncomfortable, but none of it comes from Sam. Those inclusion were annoying, but the over-all book has some humble greatness to it and was a lot of fun. I've never read a book like this before. ...more Compr\u00e9 este libro por su sinopsis, pensando que ser\u00eda un thriller entretenido cargado de misterio pero me encontr\u00e9 con algo completamente distinto, y no de una mala manera. \"\u00bfPuede ser buena una historia s\u00f3lo si produce un efecto? Si el efecto es malo, y se pretend\u00eda que as\u00ed fuera \u00bfha cumplido esa historia con su cometido? \u00bfEs, pues, una buena historia? Y si la historia produce un efecto contrario al que se pretend\u00eda, \u00bfser\u00eda entonces, una mala historia? \u00bfPuede decirse que, en efecto, las histor Compr\u00e9 este libro por su sinopsis, pensando que ser\u00eda un thriller entretenido cargado de misterio pero me encontr\u00e9 con algo completamente distinto, y no de una mala manera. \"\u00bfPuede ser buena una historia s\u00f3lo si produce un efecto? Si el efecto es malo, y se pretend\u00eda que as\u00ed fuera \u00bfha cumplido esa historia con su cometido? \u00bfEs, pues, una buena historia? Y si la historia produce un efecto contrario al que se pretend\u00eda, \u00bfser\u00eda entonces, una mala historia? \u00bfPuede decirse que, en efecto, las historias producen efectos? \u00bfDeber\u00edamos esperar que as\u00ed fuera? \u00bfPodemos culpar de algo a una historia? \u00bfPuede una historia, de hecho, hacer algo?\" Es una novela... complicada. Si la forma de narrar de este protagonista no te llam\u00f3 la atenci\u00f3n en el primer cap\u00edtulo es m\u00e1s que obvio que lo vas a abandonar porque tiende a ser muy lento y filos\u00f3fico. Parte de un tema o de una situaci\u00f3n en particular y se va y se va y se va... y despu\u00e9s retoma desde donde estaba. Es un libro en el que no ten\u00e9s que concentrarte en la trama, sino en las partes en que el protagonista \"se va por las ramas\". Eso es lo que le da grosor al libro y lo que convierte a una historia simple en algo sumamente complejo. El misterio principal queda completamente de lado, no es para nada un policial ni un thriller de misterio. Abarca temas como la familia, el amor, el paso del tiempo, los padres... pero sobre todo es un libro acerca de por qu\u00e9 decimos mentiras y todas las consecuencias que conlleva sostener una mentira por tantos a\u00f1os. Sam tiene reflexiones bastante interesantes y hace afirmaciones fuertes, su personalidad estuvo muy bien trabajada. Pero los dem\u00e1s personajes tambi\u00e9n tienen lo suyo. Todos son tan distintos y tan bien caracterizados que asombra. Sam no es un personaje del todo agradable pero al finalizar el libro no pude no sentir empat\u00eda por todo lo sucedido. Adem\u00e1s, creo que la traducci\u00f3n ayud\u00f3 bastante, era bastante llevadero y entretenido. Lo m\u00e1s interesante fue el anexo al final, donde el protagonista tiene una conversaci\u00f3n con el autor del libro. Me pareci\u00f3 innovador y le da un cierre justo a un libro tan... diferente. Es un libro que se queda con vos despu\u00e9s de leerlo, tiene muchas filosof\u00edas que quiz\u00e1s uno nunca tuvo oportunidad de analizar. Puntos de vista interesante sobre la forma de ver la vida. Quiero resaltar una en particular que me gust\u00f3 mucho porque lo le\u00ed mientras estaba de viaje, y pude sentirme identificado: \"Yo nunca hab\u00eda ido de vacaciones, en realidad, y ahora entend\u00eda por qu\u00e9 la gente lo hac\u00eda. La gente se iba de vacaciones no para descansar de sus casas, sino para imaginar que ten\u00edan una casa nueva, una casa mejor, en la que poder vivir una nueva vida. Eso lo sab\u00eda porque, a medida que conduc\u00eda, el agujero que form\u00e1bamos mi vida y yo se hac\u00eda cada vez m\u00e1s peque\u00f1o, y se llenaba de New Hapshire, o tal vez solo la idea de New Hapshire, pero qu\u00e9 m\u00e1s daba, mientras llenara el agujero. De modo que tal vez para eso fueran las vacaciones: para llenar el hueco que eras cuando no estabas de vacaciones.\" Instagram Twitter Mi blog ...more Sam Pulsifer is an everyman \u2013 if you consider it ordinary to accidentally burn down Emily Dickinson\u2019s house and go to prison. Now released, can Sam find a new life as a husband and father while trying to prove his innocence when other writers homes start going up in smoke? \u201cFear and love might leave a man complacent, but jealousy will always get him out of the van.\u201d Every so often, a book grabs your attention with the opening sentence and holds you all the way to the last period. Unfortunately, Sam Pulsifer is an everyman \u2013 if you consider it ordinary to accidentally burn down Emily Dickinson\u2019s house and go to prison. Now released, can Sam find a new life as a husband and father while trying to prove his innocence when other writers homes start going up in smoke? \u201cFear and love might leave a man complacent, but jealousy will always get him out of the van.\u201d Every so often, a book grabs your attention with the opening sentence and holds you all the way to the last period. Unfortunately, this isn\u2019t one of those books. Brock Clarke\u2019s attempt at a quirky, humorous series of misfortunes simply fails to achieve the most important goal of any story \u2013 making the reader care about the story. An Arsonist\u2019s Guide to Writers\u2019 Homes in New England is the rambling diatribe of a hapless \u2013 in fact, clueless \u2013 self described \u2018everyman\u2019 who can\u2019t help being railroaded for crimes he didn\u2019t commit. Clarke foreshadows almost everything that is going to happen to Sam Pulsifer within the first 30 pages, so there is no mystery or tension to propel the reader along. There is an inevitability to everything that happens to Sam and he has no interest in even participating in his own life, blind to what is going on around him only because he has his hand over his own eyes. The entire plot is such a quagmire it prevents the story from being anything other than a bore. In addition to the entire story being uninteresting, the prose is grating. Told from Sam\u2019s perspective, it is an annoying internal dialog where he consistently demonstrates that he is incapable of completing a full sentence without wandering off to some other topic. After about two chapters of this I was not only frustrated with reading it, I didn\u2019t care about what happened to any of the characters, especially Sam. Listening to him tell his story I quickly understood why he didn\u2019t have any friends and nobody wanted to talk to him about anything. Even Sam is uninterested in himself, which leaves anyone reading his story wondering why we should be interested in him either. I\u2019m not sure if Clarke was attempting to paint a picture of what it is like inside the mind of a hopeless victim of life. But whether it was or not, An Arsonist\u2019s Guide to Writers\u2019 Homes in New England really missed the mark and only succeeded in making me wish I had purchased something else to read. ...more Seldom do I start reading a book and think \"I really like this\", only to get about halfway through and find I dislike it so much I cannot finish. This was the case here. What happened for me is that the quaint soliloquies of the main character started out fascinating, then just became annoying. Without giving too much away, I'll say that I kept finding myself saying \"I can't believe you're going to let that happen! You idiot!\" It's not that I can't stomach a character who makes poor choices, but Seldom do I start reading a book and think \"I really like this\", only to get about halfway through and find I dislike it so much I cannot finish. This was the case here. What happened for me is that the quaint soliloquies of the main character started out fascinating, then just became annoying. Without giving too much away, I'll say that I kept finding myself saying \"I can't believe you're going to let that happen! You idiot!\" It's not that I can't stomach a character who makes poor choices, but I started to see a pattern of \"ok, exactly where is the author going with this?\" I skipped ahead to sections toward the end and got some \"meat\" to the story (after skimming past more soliloquies) and wished the author had found a way to sum it all up a bit quicker. Maybe I'm just too impatient? If you've read this and loved it (or even liked it), please let me know why. I'd be interested to hear from someone who got through it without equating the main character (and his parents) to schizophrenic zombies in a story going nowhere - slowly. ...more Life lesson learned about myself while reading <+++>An Arsonist's Guide to Writers' Homes in New England</+++> by Brock Clarke: I prefer my slapstick humor visually served up by Leslie Nielsen, as opposed to in book form, like this. Sam Pulcifer accidentally burns down Emily Dickinson's house and inadvertently kills a mid-coital married couple that was hip-locked in a bedroom. He does time in prison with memoir-writing white-collar criminals, and afterward goes off to college, meets and marries his wife. P Life lesson learned about myself while reading <+++>An Arsonist's Guide to Writers' Homes in New England</+++> by Brock Clarke: I prefer my slapstick humor visually served up by Leslie Nielsen, as opposed to in book form, like this. Sam Pulcifer accidentally burns down Emily Dickinson's house and inadvertently kills a mid-coital married couple that was hip-locked in a bedroom. He does time in prison with memoir-writing white-collar criminals, and afterward goes off to college, meets and marries his wife. Pops out a few kids and sets up shop in a suburb where shirtless lawn mowing is a social infraction. And then one day, the son of the people who died in the fire begins causing havoc in Sam's life. Everything else follows suit; Sam develops a taste for Knickerbocker beer. The reading process for this book, and say a similar style of book like \"I Love You Beth Cooper,\" sent me through these stages: 1. \"When he saw me, my father made a kind of wounded-animal noise that I took to mean one-third surprise, one-third welcome home, one-third please don't look at me, I'm hideous. ... \" Ohmygosh. This is the funniest book I've ever read in my life! 2. More than halfway through the book, Sam is watching his mother in the window of a building where a book group of adults dressed like wizards and witches are filing out into the night. \" ... and then commenced to talk about the fog and how it was a very English fog, and then there was a long sincere discussion about about how very magical fog was and how they'd be sure to wake their kids when they got home to show them the fog and then find a passage in the book featuring fog ...\" To my way of thinking, this remains pure comic gold, this social satire, this bookie social satire. Good geeky fun. 3. And then Part 4 splats. Instead of a few tiresome and absurd hiccups in the plot and an occasional twinge of annoyance at Sam's run-on, free association voice, everything is derailed. New characters are introduced. Old characters suddenly have knowledge of things that Sam didn't know they knew, and Sam makes out with a random woman. Not only did I struggle to follow what was happening, but I struggled to care to follow what was happening. 4. Pure exhaustion. What a buzz kill. If only this book had carried the momentum of the first three parts into the finale. Brock Clarke obviously has a strong grasp of voice -- maybe even too strong -- and he is quite funny. But the madcap and the loco clarinet sounds that would certainly accompany the antics in the movie version made me dizzy. ...more I'm normally a great believer in the first-sentence test, and I bought a copy of this book based almost exclusively on its doozy of a first sentence (\"I, Sam Pulsifer, am the man who accidentally burned down the Emily Dickinson House in Amherst, Massachusetts, and who in the process killed two people, for which I spent ten years in prison and, as letters from scholars of American literature tell me , for which I will continue to pay a high price long into the not-so-sweet hereafter\"). Alas, the I'm normally a great believer in the first-sentence test, and I bought a copy of this book based almost exclusively on its doozy of a first sentence (\"I, Sam Pulsifer, am the man who accidentally burned down the Emily Dickinson House in Amherst, Massachusetts, and who in the process killed two people, for which I spent ten years in prison and, as letters from scholars of American literature tell me , for which I will continue to pay a high price long into the not-so-sweet hereafter\"). Alas, the rest of the book doesn't measure of to the cleverness of the first sentence. Or, rather, it tends to revisit with shocking regularity exact replicas of the first sentence's cleverness. And, too, based on the blurbs on the cover (\"funny,\" \"a deadpan satire of all things literary,\" \"absurdly hilarious...searingly funny\"), I expected the book to be, well, funny. And it had its funny moments (such as the scholars of American literature in sentence #1), but, on the whole, I'd tend to categorize the novel more as \"darkly disturbing,\" \"heart-breaking,\" and \"absurdly depressing...searingly aching.\" There might be some cleverly written wit and satire along the way, but the destination that the novel inevitably progresses to is that of the high cost of living and loving. All of which is to say that writers of blurbs should read the books they review and not lead those of us in Barnes & Noble to think we're getting something that we're not. ...more A great title, an interesting premise and a boatload of good reviews persuaded me to pick up this book for a buck at a library sale. Wow -- what a disappointment! I've never come across a character in fiction who was so annoying, unrealistic and just plain stupid. But not stupid in an entertaining sense, just stupid in an annoying f-ed up stupid sense. I don't mind authors who have characters write in the first person who have clouded judgment or who deliberately mislead you or who don't learn a A great title, an interesting premise and a boatload of good reviews persuaded me to pick up this book for a buck at a library sale. Wow -- what a disappointment! I've never come across a character in fiction who was so annoying, unrealistic and just plain stupid. But not stupid in an entertaining sense, just stupid in an annoying f-ed up stupid sense. I don't mind authors who have characters write in the first person who have clouded judgment or who deliberately mislead you or who don't learn anything during the course of the novel. However, this guy's decisions were just totally beyond any sense of realism even for a dark comic novel. This book wasn't a bit funny, and while I again love the premise and the literary tweaks and allusions, this was just a grueling read. I made it about 160 pages in the way of diligently reading and thinking about it, and then decided to skim my way through the rest, hoping for a payoff that didn't exist or some passage that would make me slow down and enjoy the experience. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Please do yourself a favor and skip this book. Oh, and I want my dollar back! ...more It took me three weeks to read a book that I should have completed in three days. The fact that I forced myself to finish it is an indication of how disinterested I was in the story. The characters were unlikeable, the style rambled, and I did not find anything about it \"funny\" or \"heartbreaking\", as described on the jacket. There is something about this style of writing that makes my eyes glaze over. The main character was so self absorbed that I skipped whole pages of navel-gazing just to get t It took me three weeks to read a book that I should have completed in three days. The fact that I forced myself to finish it is an indication of how disinterested I was in the story. The characters were unlikeable, the style rambled, and I did not find anything about it \"funny\" or \"heartbreaking\", as described on the jacket. There is something about this style of writing that makes my eyes glaze over. The main character was so self absorbed that I skipped whole pages of navel-gazing just to get to anything that would move the plot forward. The plot jerked along to an obvious conclusion, with no sense of resolution. Books like these are like \"train wrecks\" because the impending sense of doom is so overwhelming, I feel I'm a bystander waiting for the disaster to happen. As a bystander, I never feel engaged with the story or the characters. I try not to let myself be influenced by book reviews before starting a book, but in this case, I wish I had read the Goodreads reviews first! ...more The inside back cover compares this book to Confederacy of Dunces, Catch-22, and The World According to Garp . This does not match my experience- really, as far as I'm concerned, the only way these books are the same is that they all consist of pages filled with printed English words, bound on a side, and suitable for carrying with you. An Arsonist's Guide isn't funny, isn't biting, isn't heart-breaking, or even all that interesting. It's pretty sad when someone's self-immolation doesn't provok The inside back cover compares this book to Confederacy of Dunces, Catch-22, and The World According to Garp . This does not match my experience- really, as far as I'm concerned, the only way these books are the same is that they all consist of pages filled with printed English words, bound on a side, and suitable for carrying with you. An Arsonist's Guide isn't funny, isn't biting, isn't heart-breaking, or even all that interesting. It's pretty sad when someone's self-immolation doesn't provoke a sniff or a tear. Not a terrible book, but barely interesting enough to finish reading. ...more This is a Weenie book, similar in the navel-gazing tone to the works of Sedaris, Burroughs and the Grand Schnitzel Eggers. Unlike those writers, Clarke writes in a traditional style - past tense - and with some sort of plot. So when the Weenie moments occur, and the narrator goes off on his weird life, it fits into a dramatic scheme. It's not the typical Weenie bleats. Hey, I like that. The Weenies are now, officially, \"The Bleat Generation.\" \u201cI wish I\u2019d paid more attention to Anne Marie back then, but I didn\u2019t. Oh, why didn\u2019t I? Why don\u2019t we listen to the people we love? Is it because we only have so much listening in us, and so many very important things to tell ourselves?\u201d Sam Pulsifer, the narrator and protagonist of An Arsonist\u2019s Guide to Writers\u2019 Homes in New England , poses this question to himself early in the novel. This pondering points to two key themes: the human need to narrate and our fascination with ourselves. As a tee \u201cI wish I\u2019d paid more attention to Anne Marie back then, but I didn\u2019t. Oh, why didn\u2019t I? Why don\u2019t we listen to the people we love? Is it because we only have so much listening in us, and so many very important things to tell ourselves?\u201d Sam Pulsifer, the narrator and protagonist of An Arsonist\u2019s Guide to Writers\u2019 Homes in New England , poses this question to himself early in the novel. This pondering points to two key themes: the human need to narrate and our fascination with ourselves. As a teenager, Sam accidentally set fire to Emily Dickinson\u2019s house, thereby killing two people. Years later, after Sam has served ten years in a minimum security prison, gone to college, married, and established himself in the field of package design, writers\u2019 homes again begin to combust, and Sam sets out to find out who is making it happen. The novel is largely concerned with families, especially the dysfunctional family-of-origin of which Sam is a part. It\u2019s also about literature: why we read it, whether it influences us. The prose is hilarious and the metaphors are often surprising and effective; it\u2019s also thought-provoking in its examination of literature from an outsider perspective. But we are so closely confined to Sam\u2019s head that the other characters don\u2019t have a chance to live upon the page; even the scenes seem to have been told, rather than shown. And Sam is so static for so long, and repeats his failures so faithfully, that the book begins to feel repetitive, as do the many questions he poses to himself throughout. By the time he asks himself: \u201c\u2026would anyone want to read a true story that made you start crying and never stop? Would you want to read such a story? Would you read it because it was true, or because it made you cry? Or would it make you cry because you thought it was true?\u201d I\u2019ve pretty much quit caring about the answers. ...more This novel has a smart concept: A man who\u2019s served a jail sentence for burning down Emily Dickinson\u2019s house (and killing two people who were inside it at the time) returns home to his parent\u2019s. Almost immediately after he arrives someone starts setting fire to the homes of other famous New England authors. At points it also displays a witty, distinctly literary style. There are amusing vignettes concerning successful authors of today (J.K. Rowling, Cormac McCarthy \u2013 although I may have misidentif This novel has a smart concept: A man who\u2019s served a jail sentence for burning down Emily Dickinson\u2019s house (and killing two people who were inside it at the time) returns home to his parent\u2019s. Almost immediately after he arrives someone starts setting fire to the homes of other famous New England authors. At points it also displays a witty, distinctly literary style. There are amusing vignettes concerning successful authors of today (J.K. Rowling, Cormac McCarthy \u2013 although I may have misidentified that second one) and some good jokes peppered throughout. However, there\u2019s also a lot wrong with \u2018An Arsonist\u2019s Guide to Writer\u2019s Homes in New England\u2019. I\u2019ve written before about how I dislike quirkiness, and this is a work which has the stuff dripping from each page. The protagonist is at points active and striving, while at other times weirdly \u2013 and irritatingly \u2013 passive. To me these vagaries didn\u2019t seem based on anything rooted within his character, but more on what suited the plot best at that particular juncture. The more I read the more I realised that nearly all the characters were the same way. They didn\u2019t behave like real people, but instead did something whacky and peculiar just so Brock Clarke could throw in another plot contrivance or drag out a supposed comic scene. When the characters in the book aren\u2019t really characters at all it makes it hard for the reader to care about them. Furthermore although there are good jokes, this is not a consistently funny book. There is no danger of you overlooking its flaws because it made you laugh so much. Nor, for all its erudition and the reading which evidentially went into it, is it as clever as it thinks it is. I\u2019ll give it three as it did make me smile from time to time, but that\u2019s me being generous as it\u2019s really a two and a half. ...more Blech...This book...wasn't what I thought/wanted/expected/hoped it would be. What was I expecting? Good question. That's like someone saying, \"That's not what I thought you were going to say.\" And then when asked what he THOUGHT the other person would say, that same person responds, \"I don't even remember anymore.\" Does that make sense? ( Should I delete that part of this review? Oh man. Am I coherent at ALL?) I wouldn't say this is a horrible book, but I do think that your enjoyment rests solely Blech...This book...wasn't what I thought/wanted/expected/hoped it would be. What was I expecting? Good question. That's like someone saying, \"That's not what I thought you were going to say.\" And then when asked what he THOUGHT the other person would say, that same person responds, \"I don't even remember anymore.\" Does that make sense? ( Should I delete that part of this review? Oh man. Am I coherent at ALL?) I wouldn't say this is a horrible book, but I do think that your enjoyment rests solely on your opinion of the narrator. If you thought Holden Caulfield was a rambler, wait until you meet Sam. Whew. He can't stay on topic for more than a few moments, and he has zero self-awareness. I can see how some people would enjoy questioning his reliability as a narrator and piecing together the truth of his world; I did not. I didn't like him much and didn't sympathize with his mistakes. Yes, I felt badly for him, but does that didn't mean that I truly cared about his plight. Wouldn't recommend it, but I can also safely say that I've read far worse. ...more Meh. I enjoyed this book, however I didn't find it \"Absurdly hilarious... searingly funny\" (Entertainment Weekly) or \"Wildly, unpredictably funny\" (New York Times). Instead I'd rate it perhaps \"occasionally chuckle-worthy.\" Okay, it's a satire of memoir, the literary world, and many other things. I appreciated that. But I just didn't really care about Sam or any of the characters, and as a \"mystery\" it was pretty weak. However there were some good scenes and clever lines, so all in all I'd give Meh. I enjoyed this book, however I didn't find it \"Absurdly hilarious... searingly funny\" (Entertainment Weekly) or \"Wildly, unpredictably funny\" (New York Times). Instead I'd rate it perhaps \"occasionally chuckle-worthy.\" Okay, it's a satire of memoir, the literary world, and many other things. I appreciated that. But I just didn't really care about Sam or any of the characters, and as a \"mystery\" it was pretty weak. However there were some good scenes and clever lines, so all in all I'd give it an \"Okay.\" ...more I liked this book but found it hard to keep my interest for more than a few pages at a time. I wanted to know what would happen to the characters but I didn't care very much for any of them so it didn't matter to me what the outcome was. I did like Sam's insights. He was actually a pretty wise observer but when you're a bumbler like he is it's hard to know such a thing about yourself. And now I feel as though I'm writing in his voice so I'll stop! Whimsy, satire, and black comedy. Those are three tough genres to pull off, especially when you try to do them all at once, as Brock Clarke does in his new novel. And Mr. Clarke has dared us not to read his book by giving it one of the most intriguing titles to be seen on shelves this fall: \u201cAn Arsonist\u2019s Guide to Writers\u2019 Homes in New England.\u201d This is the odd odyssey of Sam Pulsifer, who went to jail at age 18 for burning down the Emily Dickinson house in Amherst, Mass., unwittingly killing the Whimsy, satire, and black comedy. Those are three tough genres to pull off, especially when you try to do them all at once, as Brock Clarke does in his new novel. And Mr. Clarke has dared us not to read his book by giving it one of the most intriguing titles to be seen on shelves this fall: \u201cAn Arsonist\u2019s Guide to Writers\u2019 Homes in New England.\u201d This is the odd odyssey of Sam Pulsifer, who went to jail at age 18 for burning down the Emily Dickinson house in Amherst, Mass., unwittingly killing the man and woman copulating in one of the upstairs bedrooms. Sam has done his time and gone straight \u2013 or as straight as anyone in this irrepressibly loopy tale. But now, 20 years after the conflagration, his past has found him out. Someone has tried to burn down the homes of Edward Bellamy and Mark Twain, and Sam, afraid he\u2019ll get the blame, needs to find out who. He has no lack of suspects. Although he was reviled for torching the Dickinson house \u2013 \u201cin the Massachusetts Mt. Rushmore of big, gruesome tragedy, there are the Kennedys, and Lizzie Borden and her ax, and the burning witches at Salem, and then there\u2019s me\u201d \u2013 Sam also gained fans. In his parents\u2019 home is a box full of letters from people asking him, for a variety of personal reasons, to burn down the writers\u2019 houses in their neighborhoods. But the new arsonist might also be the son of the couple who died in the Dickinson conflagration, out to frame Sam. Or it might even be Sam\u2019s own mother. So \u201cAn Arsonist\u2019s Guide\u201d is partly a detective story, but don\u2019t bother reading it to see whodunit. For after the many Immelmann turns of its plot, the novel winds up in as much of a muddle as when it started. What Mr. Clarke\u2019s novel is really about is books and the people who read and write them. It\u2019s full of literary in-jokes, including references to the James Frey faux-memoir scandal, Jane Smiley\u2019s insistence that \u201cUncle Tom\u2019s Cabin\u201d is a better book than \u201cHuckleberry Finn,\u201d and a self-referential bit in which Sam, in a bookstore, picks up a copy of \u201cThe Ordinary White Boy,\u201d Mr. Clarke\u2019s first novel. Mr. Clarke finds just the right voice for Sam, who narrates, and he studs the narrative with juicy aphorisms. On the suburban life of minivans and malls, for example, he observes, \u201cThis is how it is these days: you can live in a place without having to actually have a life there.\u201d There are even aphorisms about aphorisms: \u201cFor those of us who\u2019ve lost it, love is also the thing that makes us speak in aphorisms about love, which is why we try to get love back, so we can stop speaking that way. Aphoristically, that is.\u201d But as that quote may hint, there\u2019s a little too much postmodern knowingness about \u201cAn Arsonist\u2019s Guide,\u201d a little too much wit without quite enough heart. The premise is intriguing, but the outlandishness of the way it\u2019s worked out, and the absence of any character other than Sam with enough substance to latch on to, allows Mr. Clarke\u2019s novel to meander too often and too far away from cleverness into tedium. ...more Sam Pulsifer begins his faux-memoir with an explanation: he\u2019s a convicted murderer, arsonist, and not much of a literature fan. Sam is also a \u201cbumbler,\u201d and I suppose that accidentally burning down the Emily Dickinson House and killing the two people still inside was his ultimate bumble. For his crime, Pulsifer serves ten years in a white-collar prison, and upon release discovers he is widely reviled by the denizens of his hometown of Amherst, MA, explaining \"...in the Massachusetts Mt. Rushmore Sam Pulsifer begins his faux-memoir with an explanation: he\u2019s a convicted murderer, arsonist, and not much of a literature fan. Sam is also a \u201cbumbler,\u201d and I suppose that accidentally burning down the Emily Dickinson House and killing the two people still inside was his ultimate bumble. For his crime, Pulsifer serves ten years in a white-collar prison, and upon release discovers he is widely reviled by the denizens of his hometown of Amherst, MA, explaining \"...in the Massachusetts Mt. Rushmore of big, gruesome tragedy, there are the Kennedys, and Lizzie Borden and her ax, and the burning witches of Salem, and then there's me.\" However, it appears that he is only mostly reviled. During his prison tenure, Sam's father had been inundated with a strange form of fan mail - folks offering him money in exchange for burning down other authors' homes: Hawthorne's, Twain's, Alcott's, and the like. Although surprised, Pulsifer refuses to see himself as an arsonist and chooses to ignore the letters, focusing instead on trying to build some semblance of a normal life by going off to college, getting married, buying a house, having a few kids, and staying the hell away from Amherst. But his reasonably happy existence is eventually shattered when, twenty years after his crime, the son of his accidental victims shows up on his doorstep seeking vengeance. His arrival sets off Pulsifer's downward spiral and sparks the mystery of who has resumed his work of burning down famous authors' homes, leaving Sam to assume the blame. An Arsonist's Guide ..., although fiction, reads like a memoir, and takes satirical jabs at memoirs, book clubs, English professors, and literary fads such as Harry Potter. It received gushing reviews from a wide variety of critics, and while it aims to be humorous, I felt it occasionally fell flat. Sam's (or, rather Clarke's) tone is strangely detached while telling his life story, and although this takes some getting used to, it does allow for certain passages to be funnier than they may have otherwise been. Take, for example, Sam's description of life in prison: I learned something from everyone, is the point, even while I was fending off the requisite cell-block buggerer, a gentle but crooked corporate accountant at Arthur Anderson who was just finding his true sexual self and who told me in a cracked, aching voice that he wanted me - wanted me, that is, until I told him I was a virgin, which I was, and which, for some reason, made him not want me anymore, which meant that people did not want to sleep with twenty-eight-year-old male virgins, which I thought was useful to know. See? It's that special brand of straight-faced humor that sometimes works for some people. Overall, An Arsonist's Guide ... is something that many English majors and book geeks just might love; however, although I am both those things, there was something about it - be it the tone, the wimpiness of the narrator, or the combination of the two - that kept me from feeling such depth of affection. ...more The writing brimmed with a nagging...wrongness. Like: \"His eyes were fixed on Lees Ardor; he had this aroused, glazed look on his face and kept smoothing and stroking his tie, and you didn't have to be an English major or a reader to know what that symbolized.\" Does Clarke mean signified? Does he mean for Sam Pulsifier to mean signified but get it wrong in a demonstration of his bumblingness? Or does Clarke not have a great grasp on the difference between symbols and signifiers? Or does he mean so The writing brimmed with a nagging...wrongness. Like: \"His eyes were fixed on Lees Ardor; he had this aroused, glazed look on his face and kept smoothing and stroking his tie, and you didn't have to be an English major or a reader to know what that symbolized.\" Does Clarke mean signified? Does he mean for Sam Pulsifier to mean signified but get it wrong in a demonstration of his bumblingness? Or does Clarke not have a great grasp on the difference between symbols and signifiers? Or does he mean something that he's not just very good at communicating? I'm thinking the last one's the most accurate, given the rest of the book... \"The books were all from some library--I could see the telltale laminated tag on the spines. I looked down, lifted my left foot, and saw I'd been standing on a copy of Ethan Frome , a book every eighth grader in Massachusetts since Edith Wharton had written it had been required to read and then wonder why. I kicked the novel away from me, something I'd been wanting to do for twenty-six years, and in doing so I imagined I was striking a blow on behalf of its many unwilling, barely pubescent readers.\" Such. Awkward. Prose. Sentences. Need. To. Be. Pruned. (I'm overcompensating by making each of my words its own sentence. Joke?) \"There was no sign naming the place as this bar or that tavern, as if no name were sufficiently bad.\" Once again, an ucky rambling sentence where the phrasing is just confusing enough to make you wonder where the subjects and verbs are and whether they got into an argument or something and that's why they're not really interacting like they should in a happy sentence. There's more kind of ucky writing, but there's also a relatively amusing story buried in it. Along with extreme self-consciousness and bland gesturing toward some sort of greater point which only kind of gets made by the end. I don't recommend this book. I was going to say at least it's better than Dan Brown, but it's kind of worse. At least The Da Vinci Code pretended to find itself interesting. Clarke can't even muster the enthusiasm for his own book to have its protagonist-narrator commit fully to being its author. ...more While it's a little difficult to dissect this book, due to its hilarity and absurdity that is contrasted by an absolute seriousness, it is a book worth dissecting. Sam Pulsifer is a bumbler. He accidentally burns down the Emily Dickenson house--killing two people and he accidentally falls into his life after 10 years of prison. Things devolve quickly because of a single, sudden event because Sam manages to bumble around in just the wrong ways. In one respect the bumbling makes this book what it While it's a little difficult to dissect this book, due to its hilarity and absurdity that is contrasted by an absolute seriousness, it is a book worth dissecting. Sam Pulsifer is a bumbler. He accidentally burns down the Emily Dickenson house--killing two people and he accidentally falls into his life after 10 years of prison. Things devolve quickly because of a single, sudden event because Sam manages to bumble around in just the wrong ways. In one respect the bumbling makes this book what it is. How many of us have reacted/not-reacted poorly and had things spiral away from us as a result? Clark manages in this book to capture that with such a brutally funny and sad manner that you cannot help but ache with familiarity and pity for Sam. On the other hand, there are too many things that are too easily solved and while there is so much bumbling that we understand and sympathize with, there is far too much that we don't understand and works as a plot contrivance rather than an action of character. Sam's relationship with his wife is the prime concern here and very much as well her relationship with Sam. It is hard to tell where these two really stand because they are forced apart so strongly and irrevocably early on and they simply do not talk. This is upsetting and confusing, especially as things unwind more. On the other hand, this book also manages to discuss the roles of fiction and non-fiction, the popularity of the genres, the way they are treated/written/read, the impact of authors and their stories and the peculiar traits of authors as well. It manages to discuss all of these things and very well. It explores the role of literature on our lives, even when we do not read much at all and it interweaves this perfectly with Sam's tale. In the end, this book is quite amazing, quite shockingly good and quite frustrating. It is a quick, easy read that is staggeringly difficult to put down and it is a book that I would definitely recommend. ...more A quirky sad/funny, mystery/comedy/tragedy that disturbs one moment, tickles the next, and left me uncomfortable more than I wanted to admit. At times it read like \"Holes\" for adults. On one level, this book is a satire on the literary world and its pretensions. The author even makes a cameo appearance as a writer the main character/narrator makes fun of. Along the way there is a mystery to be solved, but the mystery is never so deep as to get in the way of the deeper mysteries the novel wants to A quirky sad/funny, mystery/comedy/tragedy that disturbs one moment, tickles the next, and left me uncomfortable more than I wanted to admit. At times it read like \"Holes\" for adults. On one level, this book is a satire on the literary world and its pretensions. The author even makes a cameo appearance as a writer the main character/narrator makes fun of. Along the way there is a mystery to be solved, but the mystery is never so deep as to get in the way of the deeper mysteries the novel wants to explore: why do we hurt the ones we love the most, and is truth really the balm for wounds we'd like to think it is? Having just finished a seminary course on biblical wisdom literature, I was struck by parallels in this book. The narrator seems on a quest for wisdom. Like Qoheleth of Ecclesiastes, he finds that most of the conventional wisdom on wisdom doesn't really hold up. We even meet Job's friends, in the form of a group of convicted bond analysts who advise the narrator \"just tell the truth, Dude. It will make you feel better,\" a notion the narrator finds not always true, to his great pain. In the end, the novel turns out to be about sacrifice for the sake of love, and the acceptance that while human love often stinks and hurts, it's better than the alternatives. ...more This has gotten a lot of press, but I wasn't in love with it. Good writing, for sure, and innovative conceptually, but I found myself never with the protagonist, and I wanted to be. He is at once innocent and completely culpable, at least in terms of his own assessment of himself, and this makes for an odd narrative point of view. The narrator spends a lot of time judging himself, and sometimes it feels like sitting in on someone's therapy, someone you actually didn't want to know this well. Thi This has gotten a lot of press, but I wasn't in love with it. Good writing, for sure, and innovative conceptually, but I found myself never with the protagonist, and I wanted to be. He is at once innocent and completely culpable, at least in terms of his own assessment of himself, and this makes for an odd narrative point of view. The narrator spends a lot of time judging himself, and sometimes it feels like sitting in on someone's therapy, someone you actually didn't want to know this well. This isn't a failing - I felt similarly when reading the Miranda July book, actually. A little creeped out. In this case, though, I felt the creepiness wasn't wholly justified by the actual circumstances of the plot. The sequence of arsons felt forced, and the conclusion seemed suspect - I won't give it away, but the person who actually set the fires is someone I have no feeling about one way or the other - the character comes in very late in the narrative. I like the initial concept of the book, though - someone sets fire to a bunch of famous writer's homes in New England, and the wrong guy is blamed. Very catchy. I just wanted to feel more for everyone involved. ...more<---C>Brock Clarke</---C>", "Title": "An Arsonist's Guide to Writers' Homes in New England"},
