{"Comments": "If <---C>Quentin Coldwater</---C> stumbled on a pot of gold at the end of a rainbow, he\u2019d constantly complain about how heavy it was and how the coins didn\u2019t fit in any vending machines and why couldn't they have just put the money into a nice cashier's check that he could have fit neatly in his wallet and then deposited in the bank? In the first book, Quentin was a brilliant but disillusioned teenager who found life a boring slog and desperately wished that things were more like his favorite fantasy series If Quentin Coldwater stumbled on a pot of gold at the end of a rainbow, he\u2019d constantly complain about how heavy it was and how the coins didn\u2019t fit in any vending machines and why couldn't they have just put the money into a nice cashier's check that he could have fit neatly in his wallet and then deposited in the bank? In the first book, Quentin was a brilliant but disillusioned teenager who found life a boring slog and desperately wished that things were more like his favorite fantasy series set in a magical land called Fillory. (<---B>Think Narnia.</---B>) Quentin seemingly hit the fantasy geek jackpot when he learned that magic was real, and he was admitted to an exclusive school called Brakebills that trained magicians. Yet he constantly found himself disappointed that he never achieved his idea of true happiness even after graduating. When a classmate discovered that Fillory was real and a path to it, Quentin seized on the notion that going to Fillory was the only way he\u2019d ever finally be complete. Unfortunately, Quentin learned the hard way that there\u2018s a big difference between reading about adventures and actually finding yourself in magical battle where various beasties are trying to kill you. <+++>The Magician King</+++> picks up several years after that. Quentin is now one of the kings of Fillory and lives a life of ease and luxury with his friends. Of course, Quentin is never satisfied with a bird in the hand even when he\u2019s relatively content, and he volunteers to go on a diplomatic mission to an island so he can seek the two birds he just knows are out there in the bush. His desire for a \u2019real\u2019 adventure leads to him returning to Earth and finding that his wish for a high stakes quest have just come true. It\u2019s much more than he bargained for and the consequences are enormous. I loved The Magicians with it\u2019s unique twist of what it\u2019d be like if there were magic in the real world, but it seemed like a love-it or hate-it book with my friends here on Goodreads. And I totally understood why some readers could not stand Quentin at all. Here\u2019s a guy who catches the biggest break in nerd history and yet he\u2019s never satisfied and grateful for the opportunity he has. In all honesty, I was starting to hate him pretty good through the first half of this book myself. It seemed like Quentin had forgotten everything he\u2019d suffered and learned in the first book, and he was once again an obsessed nerd who is convinced that he\u2019d be happy if he could live like he\u2019s in a fantasy novel. However, that changes about halfway through with several big plot developments that I won\u2019t spoil,<---M> but by the end of this one</---M>, I completely dropped my earlier reservations. It also helped that Grossman is obviously writing Quentin to be an obsessed pain in the ass early on, and that he has several characters call him out on it. There\u2019s a particularly nice bit where Quentin has traveled to Europe on Earth, and he has a moment of clarity where he realizes that he wrote off the real world when he\u2019d seen almost none of it. One of the things I also loved about this one in is the backstory of Julia, a former high school classmate\u2019s of Quentin\u2019s who had failed the Brakebills entrance exam, but went on to find another way to learn magic. If they were musicians, it\u2019d be like Quentin went to study at Juilliard, but Julia learned in garage bands and punk clubs. I can\u2019t mention the stuff that occurs towards the end that made this book so cool to me and left me stunned by it\u2019s conclusion. If you didn\u2019t like The Magicians , this probably won\u2019t change your mind. However, if you did like the first one, you\u2019ll probably enjoy this book, especially it\u2019s moving and incredibly dark third act.<---F> Originally read Aug</---F>. 2011 Re-read Aug. 2014 ...more The Continuing Adventures of a Smug Magical Asshole , as written by An Asshole. and now featuring The New Adventures of a Completely Self-Absorbed Bitch . i suppose i understand the acclaim that has been heaped on Grossman. he is playing with tropes as his characters play with magic. he has a puckish sensibility that makes reading his series a tart and spiky experience. his tone is breezily casual and entirely unsentimental. and since Snark is the New Law of the New Millenium, the snark that is del The Continuing Adventures of a Smug Magical Asshole , as written by An Asshole. and now featuring The New Adventures of a Completely Self-Absorbed Bitch . i suppose i understand the acclaim that has been heaped on Grossman. he is playing with tropes as his characters play with magic. he has a puckish sensibility that makes reading his series a tart and spiky experience. his tone is breezily casual and entirely unsentimental. and since Snark is the New Law of the New Millenium, the snark that is delivered in spades throughout his novels probably lets many readers off the hook of reading genre fiction ... everything is delivered neatly wrapped up within a knowing, eye-rolling, jaded wrapping paper. this gift can be unwrapped at sophisticated dinner parties and the reader won't have to suffer any kind of embarrassment over reading and talking about Fantasy . but i had to do a lot of eye-rolling of my own. it's not as if <+++>The Magician King</+++> is just about a shallow little prick who views everything - and i mean Everything - around him with disdain. i probably would have less of an issue with this book if it were simply about an unsympathetic protagonist. but nope, the author himself makes it clear that he is officially on the side of cynical, snarky assholery. it is all in the writing itself, and not just in the voice of our tedious hero. i can start with the ending, where banality has been substituted for actual meaning and resonance. but the problem is endemic to the entire narrative. people and places are described in the same shallow, smirky, insulting manner, as if the book was actually written by our tedious hero. a bit of the jokiness scores; most of it just falls flat, with a thud. like the irritating, oh-so-clever commentary of some overly-intellectual prick at a party, going on and on about how pedestrian tv is, how terrible music is these days, how pop culture is for idiots, how he's been there, done that, and there were so many tourists and it was all so predictable and banal and now he's rolling his eyes and arching his eyebrows and i just want to smack the bullshit right out of him. in short, this novel lacks SINCERITY. okay, enough of the complaints. there is still a lot to enjoy. first off, new co-protagonist The Completely Self-Absorbed Bitch is actually pretty interesting and her parallel flashback adventures are often enthralling. the way that the parallel narratives of our heroine's past and our hero's present eventually dovetail into one narrative is clever and quite elegantly structured. an island battle is genuinely thrilling. the novel's major set-piece, where a bunch of brilliant but mentally ill magicians conjure up an actual god is pretty awesome - and very upsetting. the story of young Benedict is also quite well-done... there is genuine tragedy and sadness there, in a way that really stands out from the rest of the narrative. and extra points for portraying rape without even the slightest bit of offensive sexiness. i was happy to see my favorite characters from the prior novel, Penny and that novel's superb villain Martin Chatwin, both return in a couple excellent cameos. and many of the ideas are wonderful - in particular the Neitherlands, dragons, Venice, the return of the old gods, magical halfway houses, a magical ship, magicians who have somehow transitioned into higher beings, the seven golden keys, a sloth, the Customs Agent and especially her daughter... and i'm probably missing a few equally choice nuggets. The Magician King is deeply flawed and its juvenile tone may be instantly dismissable; it is also practically brimming over with a host of smart, fun, and intriguing moments. much like a creative, outsider-type teenager - full of unearned cynicism and irritating snarkiness, but also full of vibrant energy, a host of ideas, and a fresh, sometimes even brilliant way of looking at things. so, when all is said and done, i'd actually recommend this book as an interesting and often enjoyable experience. but i'd have to give a big disclaimer before recommending it - a disclaimer delivered with a little snark and a lot of eye-rolling. ...more Quentin and friends are the kings and queens of Fillory and everything is marvelous. Or it is, until it becomes apparent that something is wrong. King Quentin takes it upon himself to fix things. With Julia in tow, he sails to the ends of Fillory to fix the world. Can he succeed in the quest of a lifetime and save Fillory? If The Magicians was <---A>Lev Grossman</---A>'s Harry Potter with a healthy slice of Narnia, The Magician King is Lev Grossman's Lord of the Rings. Grossman takes all the quest story stapl Quentin and friends are the kings and queens of Fillory and everything is marvelous. Or it is, until it becomes apparent that something is wrong. King Quentin takes it upon himself to fix things. With Julia in tow, he sails to the ends of Fillory to fix the world. Can he succeed in the quest of a lifetime and save Fillory? If The Magicians was Lev Grossman's Harry Potter with a healthy slice of Narnia, The Magician King is Lev Grossman's Lord of the Rings. Grossman takes all the quest story staples and focuses them through his lens. Not only does Grossman tell the story of Quentin rising to the occasion and stopping his rampant douche-baggery, he also tells the harrowing tale of Julia's own rise to magical prowess after her failure during the Brakebills exam. Where the first book is essentially a coming of age story, this one is a pair of quest stories. I have to admit that I wasn't completely sold at first. Neither thread of the story seemed to be moving very fast and Julia's tale wasn't really grabbing me. Then it all clicked and I was hooked, devouring the book in two extended sittings. Quentin rises above his roots in The Magician King, finally becoming someone we actually like reading about. As for Julia's parallel tale, I'll save that for my spoilers section. Grossman explores the various quest story tropes and simultaneously crafts a grand quest story of his own. More on that in the spoilers section. Grossman did a ton of world-building in The Magician King. The Neitherlands were explained, Fillory was fleshed out, and lots of things lurking just out of sight were hinted at. All of it was well integrated with the rest of the story and I didn't feel like I was being slapped in the face with it. Poppy was by far my favorite of the new characters. I liked how she called Quentin to the carpet over ignoring the real world in favor of Fillory. I also liked that she and Quentin didn't immediately stumble and fall into each other's genitals. Julia's tale was a poignant tale of loss and sacrifice. While I wasn't too keen on it at first, it became my favorite part of the story after a while. Her new friends were an interesting bunch. Too bad about what happened to them. See the spoiler section for details. One thing I continue to love is Grossman's magic system. It's grown a bit from its Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell roots. The notion that magic is the leftover tools from when the gods created the world is repeated and expanded upon. The spoiler section: (view spoiler) [ First of all, the parallel structure of the story clued me into the source of magic's strange behavior pretty early on. Not that that impaired my enjoyment in the least. What Julia and her friends summoned, however, was pretty unexpected. I liked Penny's reappearance and the revelations about the Neitherlands, the gods, and the Order. Once Penny revealed the full scope of what was at stake, I felt like I was reading The Gunslinger's palaver with the Man in Black again for the first time. I fully expect Quentin to join the Order in the third book. Speaking of there being a third book, I think it was around page 300 that I realized there was no way Grossman would be able to wrap things up in a satisfactory fashion in the pages he had left. I like that The Order created a back door for magic in case the gods tried to cut off the supply, as do I like the notion that magicians are hacking the machinery of reality. The ending was perfect. While it was a bittersweet victory for Quentin, I kind of think he had it coming for the amount of bitching he did in the first book. (hide spoiler) ] In conclusion, if you dug the first book and don't like your sequels to be \"Second verse, same as the first,\" you'll probably enjoy The Magician King. Go out and get it right now! ...more This series can be really frustrating because it takes everything you expect and think you know and goes \"....nah.\" I enjoyed this book so much more than the first one. The characters, while still realistic and frustrating, grew on me a lot and I found myself really caring for them. The introduction of a \"new\" character was also a great addition as well, and I enjoyed learning about their backstory. I noticed a lot of connections being made between situations and characters in this book already, This series can be really frustrating because it takes everything you expect and think you know and goes \"....nah.\" I enjoyed this book so much more than the first one. The characters, while still realistic and frustrating, grew on me a lot and I found myself really caring for them. The introduction of a \"new\" character was also a great addition as well, and I enjoyed learning about their backstory. I noticed a lot of connections being made between situations and characters in this book already, so I'm excited to see the conclusion and how everything is going to be wrapped up. Full video review to come! ...more \u201dShe\u2019d always liked Quentin, basically. He was sarcastic and spookily smart and, on some level, basically a kind person who just need a ton of therapy and maybe some mood-altering drugs. Something to selectively inhibit the voracious reuptake of serotonin that was obviously going on inside his skull 24-7. She felt bad about the fact that he was in love with her and that she found him deeply unsexy, but not that bad. Honestly, he was decent-looking, better-looking than he thought he was, but that \u201dShe\u2019d always liked Quentin, basically. He was sarcastic and spookily smart and, on some level, basically a kind person who just need a ton of therapy and maybe some mood-altering drugs. Something to selectively inhibit the voracious reuptake of serotonin that was obviously going on inside his skull 24-7. She felt bad about the fact that he was in love with her and that she found him deeply unsexy, but not that bad. Honestly, he was decent-looking, better-looking than he thought he was, but that moody boy-man Fillory shit cut like zero ice with her, and she was smart enough to know whose problem that was, and it wasn\u2019t hers.\u201d Julia is casting a few stones at our hero Quentin, but Quentin is relatively stable compared to the snarled mess of snakes that are rolling around in her head. She has resentments, great big mounds of resentments that go back to the first book, The Magicians . You see. There is a magic school, not Hogwarts or any facsimile of such a school, called Brakebills. Quentin got in. Julie did not. She went a little crazy. Then she went a lot crazy. Then she decided to give Brakebills the double finger salute and learn magic on her own. The only course open to her was the underground magic scene, most of them colossal losers, but she continued to sort through the rotten barrel of apples until she found one or two magicians worth taking a bite out of. Quentin discovers that the fairy tale world that he grew up reading about was actually real. He finds a way to go there with his friends (including the moody but gorgeous Julia who he still carries a torch for), and after an epic battle they assume control of the kingdom of Fillory. Quentin is nearly chewed in half, and in need of some replacement parts. Thank goodness for centaurs. The ones that survived and also decided to stay become Kings and Queens of Fillory. Eliot is the high King. Janet and Julia become Queens, and of course, Quentin rounds it out to make it four. As they lounge around with too few duties to occupy their time Quentin notices that he is putting on weight. \u201dNo wonder kings looked so fat in pictures. One minute you\u2019re Prince Valiant, the next you\u2019re Henry VIII.\u201d He decides it is time for an adventure. Eliot isn\u2019t that interested. \u201dI understand the appeal this sort of thing has for you, quests and King Arthur and all that. But that\u2019s you. No offense, but it always seemed a bit like boy stuff to me. Sweaty and strenuous and just not very elegant, if you see what i mean. I don\u2019t need to be called to feel special, I feel special enough already. I\u2019m clever, rich, and good-looking. I was perfectly happy where I was , deliquescing, atom by atom, amid a riot of luxury.\u201d I wonder how long Eliot had that gem worked up in his head waiting for the perfect moment to trot it out for maximum effect. After a few misstarts in finding the proper adventure, Quentin lands on the search for the seven golden keys. He is pleasantly surprised that Julia, damaged somewhat deranged Julia, decides to go with him. \u201dThe wind had caught her black hair and was whipping it wildly around her face. She looked outrageously beautiful. It might have been a trick of the light, but her skin had a silvery, unearthly quality, as if it would shock him if he touched it. If they were going to fall in love with each other, it was going to happen on this ship.\u201d I\u2019m going to take some of the suspense out of the epic romance scenario. It is not going to happen. Not that Julia was frigid, well cold, but not Arctic. \u201dThere was enough hiding in life. Sometimes you just wanted to show somebody your tits.\u201d That would be everyone but Quentin. (Technically she does show him her breasts, but not under the circumstances that was part of a romantic interlude.) The golden key quest goes sideways and Julia and Quentin are zipped out of Fillory and back to...OMG...Earth. \u201dEverything was toxic and chemical and unnatural; the plastic walnut trim, the electric lights, the burning gasoline that was shoving them forward. This whole world was a processed petroleum product.\u201d They need a kid and need one quickly. \u201dThe boy had fine tousled brown hair and blue eyes. A more quintessential English moppet it would have been hard to find, right down to his having a spot of trouble pronouncing his l\u2019s and r\u2019s. He could have been cloned from Christopher Robin\u2019s toenail clippings.\u201d Proper geography, perfect kid, games, and maybe, just maybe, a seam will open up taking them back to Fillory. There may not be a more magical city in the world than Venice so it is no surprise that Lev Grossman takes us there as part of the Earth side of the adventure. There is also Neitherlands, the land between Fillory and Earth where they discover that magic is being systematically siphoned off from Earth and Fillory. The quest for the golden keys is now much more than just an adventure. It is a race to save magic and keep Fillory from becoming nothing more than a fairy tale memory. There are clock trees, the sound of crickets fucking (I\u2019m still puzzling over what that sounds like.), talking fish, an animated corpse, a philosophical sloth, old pagan Gods (nasty buggers), a walk through the underworld, and death defying acts of courage. Intermingled with Quentin\u2019s misadventures is the back story of Julia before she gets to Fillory. With hard work, tenacity, and a few strategic hand jobs she was able to acquire the knowledge she needed to catch up and surpass the Brakebills\u2019s whiz kids. With the help of the most talented underground magicians she attempts to summon an ancient god and something much more sinister appears. It is a gut wrenching moment that bears too high a cost. Whatever conceived notions I had of Julia are rewritten in curlicues of pain, regret, and anguish. I personally have no interest in meeting any GOD. How could they be anything but petulant, angry, unpredictable, violent, churlish, destructive, flaming\u2026? Well, you know what I mean. The book starts slow as did the first one, but Lev Grossman continues to build steam as the plot unspools. He hits his stride in the final half of each book, masterfully ratcheting up the tension leaving this reader with tingling nerves and a buzzing brain. Quentin is far from the perfect hero. He is self-absorbed, privileged, but all of that is counterbalanced by his charming belief in the power of fairy tales. The ending left me gobsmacked and fumbling desperately for the third and final book in the trilogy. If you are looking for something to tide you over until J. K. Rowling decides to give in and write another Harry Potter book, this ain\u2019t it. Quentin Coldwater and his friends are not Gryffindor material. This series is edgy, unpredictable, and moody with dysfunctional heroes that could hang with Bret Easton Ellis and think who brought the stiff? ...more Let me begin this review by saying that I really enjoyed Lev Grossman's The Magicians . I didn't think it was perfect, by any means - I wasn't keen on Quentin, and the saga of his relationship with Alice and how he behaved about it really pissed me off - but altogether I found it to be an original, enjoyable, and gloriously escapist read. I will admit that I am not the biggest fan of all-out fantasy, but I liked the fact that The Magicians couched its fantastical elements in a recognisable versio Let me begin this review by saying that I really enjoyed Lev Grossman's The Magicians . I didn't think it was perfect, by any means - I wasn't keen on Quentin, and the saga of his relationship with Alice and how he behaved about it really pissed me off - but altogether I found it to be an original, enjoyable, and gloriously escapist read. I will admit that I am not the biggest fan of all-out fantasy, but I liked the fact that The Magicians couched its fantastical elements in a recognisable version of the 'real world', which tends to be a difficult thing to pull off. Altogether, I'd been looking forward to this follow-up since it was first announced, and have had it on my wishlist since the title was confirmed. Therefore, it was a big disappointment, and a bit of a surprise, that I really didn't like it much at all. The Magician King picks up some time after the end of the first book. Quentin and friends are still in Fillory, the Narnia-like magical alternate world, where they now reign as kings and queens. But typically, Quentin is restless and not particularly happy; he thinks there must be something more to achieve, and he sets off on a mission to recover taxes from a remote island, taking the increasingly aloof - and powerful - Julia with him. The story unfolds as a disjointed kind of quest that never really seems to go anywhere. There are moments of excitement, but what ends up happening is repeatedly anticlimactic. It's hard to tell whether this is intentional - obviously, the whole point of the Magicians books is to subvert the cosy stereotypes usually found in this type of tale. Either way, it feels very unsatisfying. Some chapters branch off into Julia's history, which I wanted to be interested in, but the book never quite shakes off the feeling that she's secondary to Quentin, plus she's just not very likeable - not to mention the fact that her story goes beyond ridiculous in the end. And then there's the way it's all written, which I could talk about forever. There are knowing references to Harry Potter, Narnia, Lord of the Rings, Alice in Wonderland, etc everywhere - to the point, for example, of Brakebills (this world's school of magic) actually being referred to as Hogwarts. It's like being constantly nudged and winked at, like the book is continually making sure you're 'in on the joke'. In the same vein, there's far too much swearing. I couldn't care less about swearing in books, it certainly doesn't offend me, but it's shoved into the narrative so often that it just becomes exhausting. The repeated lazy usage of 'shit' to mean stuff/things particularly grates. I presume this is all to hammer home that these characters are adults, that this world is far from whimsical despite the presence of talking animals and magical islands. It's so unnecessary, though. Part-way through reading the book, I highlighted this passage to demonstrate a perfect example of the style: Of course Iris had every right. That's how the system worked. She was doing Julia a fucking favor. Babysitting the noob was evidently not considered a premium assignment at Murs, and she wasn't going to pretend to enjoy it. Which whatever, but this did not oblige Julia to pretend to be grateful either. Really she ought to dog it a few times, she thought, just to piss Iris off. Show her that Julia had nothing to prove. See how long it took her to lose her shit. I mean, 'noob'? 'Which whatever'? Fuck, piss and shit in one short paragraph for no real reason? Not long afterwards the word 'nomming' was seriously used, at which point I almost threw my Kindle at the wall. I get that the narrative is partly meant to represent the internal voice of Quentin/Julia, but god, it's irritating. And THE WHOLE BOOK is written like this. Afterwards, I had to find my copy of The Magicians to refresh my memory about the style - and yes, it had its fair share of profanity and slang, but The Magician King makes it look like a nominee for the Nobel prize for literature. Perhaps this book will be more popular with readers more accustomed to and/or comfortable with fantasy fiction. Most of the events in Fillory, along with the climax of Julia's backstory, went too far into territory I found ludicrous and bizarre (in a bad way). I didn't like any of the characters, the interaction between Quentin and Poppy was sloppily done and unbelievable, I hated that Quentin was STILL hung up on the now-dead Alice having slept with Penny AFTER THEY SPLIT. Admittedly, I did at least feel compelled to keep reading right to the end; there's a few good bits, if you look for them. But it was a hard slog to finish the book and I doubt I'm going to be reading any further installments. Overall: a mess. 1.5 stars (narrowly missing out on a one-star review because it just isn't QUITE as bad as the other books I've given one star). ...more I am so annoyed by this book, and not for the reasons I thought I'd be. The two things that irritated me about the first book weren't as bad here--specifically, Quentin was less whiny (I couldn't stand him in the first book; he was more bearable here), and the sexism that ran through the first book was really toned down. (I could never tell if the sexism was supposed to be Quentin's voice, or if it was latent from the author. I suspect the latter.) At first, I thought Julia was going to be a man I am so annoyed by this book, and not for the reasons I thought I'd be. The two things that irritated me about the first book weren't as bad here--specifically, Quentin was less whiny (I couldn't stand him in the first book; he was more bearable here), and the sexism that ran through the first book was really toned down. (I could never tell if the sexism was supposed to be Quentin's voice, or if it was latent from the author. I suspect the latter.) At first, I thought Julia was going to be a manic-pixie-dream-girl to replace Alice (who filled that role in the first book, and who was my favorite character. RIP). However, that wasn't the case. I actually loved Julie's story for the first 90% of the book. In fact, up until the end, I was really liking this book. The main story was fast paced, and learning about Julia's magical underground, and her group of friends, was really interesting. Then the book totally blindsided me. At the end, Julia is raped. By a god, nonetheless. It's a pretty disturbing scene (in a book that, up till this point, had PG-13, fantasy violence only). But it's OK, guys! Not only did the rape empower her and give her stronger magic, but she's TOTALLY healed--by turning into a dryad. Yes, that's right. I'm being literal. We haven't progressed beyond the ancient Greeks in our treatment of--or attitudes about--rape victims. Julia lost her humanity from a rape. I would have given this book 4 stars, but the ending ruined it for me. I no longer trust this author and won't be reading any more of his books. ...more A book has never made me so angry before. I am absolutely bewildered that 93% of people like this book. No offense, but I think you all deserve a fucking double-slap across the face. This was, hands down, the worst book I've ever read. Where is the zero star possibility, Goodreads? Because, for this shitty fucking book, we need one. In The Magicians, I felt that Lev Grossman was actually a beautiful writer, and that's one of the reasons I gave it two measly stars. Here, though, Grossman just sh A book has never made me so angry before. I am absolutely bewildered that 93% of people like this book. No offense, but I think you all deserve a fucking double-slap across the face. This was, hands down, the worst book I've ever read. Where is the zero star possibility, Goodreads? Because, for this shitty fucking book, we need one. In The Magicians, I felt that Lev Grossman was actually a beautiful writer, and that's one of the reasons I gave it two measly stars. Here, though, Grossman just shoves that little bit going for him up a cow's ass. Also\u2026 is it fucking possible that these characters could be anymore loathsome? Quentin Coldwater is the worst protagonist I've ever encountered. You can't even call him a protagonist let alone a fucking hero because he has NO redeeming qualities whatsoever. It's the same whiny \"my life is too boring even though I'm a king, and I live in a fucking white castle, and I am a genius who can do magic\" bullshit only this time it's magnified by fucking Julia who I wish would have offed herself the entire time. Call the fucking waaambulance. For the record, I am not some reader who needs a taintless protagonist. I love protagonists who are unconventional. For instance, Isaac Dan der Grimnebulin from China Mi\u00e9ville's Perdido Street Station . He's not the best guy in the world. In fact, he's pretty fucking sleazy, but among many of his glaring, douche-y faults, he has one shining, likable quality, and that one likable quality wants me to see him succeed in everything he attempts. Quentin? I want him to fail. I want his life to be so miserable that he can't EVER go on a fucking quest again. I want him to forget how to do magic. I want banality to come along and make Quentin Coldwater its bitch. The other characters? No better. Eliot? Give me a goddamn fucking break. He has to find the Seven Golden Keys of Fillory because Fillory is in peril, tells his story, talks about how magnificent he was while doing it, and says, \"I could imagine finding one every few years. Organize my holidays around it.\" What a fucking cunt. Then, later, when they find an island, Quentin asks Eliot if they should claim it in the name of Fillory, and Eliot says, \"It seems a little imperialist. I'm not sure it's in good taste.\" When the fuck have you people ever cared about good taste? Characters joke about Asians having small penises. Arbitrary sex is rife through out as if Mr. Grossman gets some sick pleasure from watching two characters randomly fuck out of the blue. Mmm, yeah, I'm so badass and edgy for using the word fuck. And can we talk about character actions for a second? Why in the fucking world would Julia, a twenty-something year old magician described as \"a freight train of magical pedagogy,\" use a rock to break into a sports car? These fucking useless cunts/pricks hack into ATMs for a living because they practically leak laziness and apathy. Speaking of hacking into ATMs, Quentin and his so-called friends get kicked out of Fillory, so they go through pages and pages of getting to their friend Josh because he has one of the buttons that allowed them to get into Fillory in the first book. BUT! He fucking sold it for money, so he could buy a million dollar palazzo. THEY ARE MAGICIANS! THEY HACK INTO FUCKING ATMS WITH FUCKING MAGIC! Listen\u2026 I don't know if I'm making myself clear. These are characters who bewitched corporations in the first book to give themselves desk jobs where they sat and played Minesweeper all day and still made bank, and Josh just HAD to sell a button that allows inter-dimensional travel for a fucking palazzo in Venice? What the fucking fuck? And my GOD the plethora of pop culture references! This piece of shit story is an anti-fantasy. It is not a fantasy that I can immerse myself in because I am being constantly bombarded with Harry Potter references and Dune references and Lord of the Rings references. The Teletubbie world is real? Har har har, ur so funneh, Mr. Grossman. I'm surprised you didn't take that moment to talk about how big Tinkie Winkie's cock was! Stop being lazy and make up your own goddamn references, and give me a fantasy where I can lose myself and not be reminded again and again and again that I'm reading a fucking book because that, though you may not know it for whatever pathetic reason, is why people picked up this drivel to begin with. We should also talk about the fucking ideas you stole, Mr. Grossman, but, you know, after reading The Magicians, I wouldn't expect anything less. Seven Golden Keys? Sailing around Fillory on a ship? Hrm\u2026 sounds like the Seven Swords in the fucking The Voyage of the Dawn Treader . They even end up on the beach, and Aslan Ember shows up and sends (view spoiler) [Quentin back to Earth but not before sending a few Follorians to \"the other side.\" (hide spoiler) ] As we near the end, we come to the fucking unadulterated sexism. I guess if Mr. Grossman's heroine can't (view spoiler) [die \u00e0 la Alice in the first book, then she must be raped... which is what happens to Julia. And it's not by some man. It's by some fucking fox/god hybrid. It's disgusting. \"This wasn't his first time at the rodeo,\" Mr Grossman writes as if it's fucking funny, and he says the rape \"filled her up with power.\" (hide spoiler) ] Are you fucking with me? And what is the purpose behind it? So she can ascend to being (view spoiler) [god-like (hide spoiler) ] ? That's bullshit, and it's sick. And what kind of crock-of-shit ending was that? There's an iota of something good here: (view spoiler) [the gods trying to take back magic. (hide spoiler) ] It is literally resolved with the (view spoiler) [turning of a key, (I can hear the gods now: \"Oh, shit, they turned the last key! We better stop now.\") (hide spoiler) ] and it takes fucking 80% of the book to set this one thing up? It's fucking terrible. But at least Quentin got what he deserved\u2026 but maybe not because I hear Mr. Grossman is planning on writing another one of these fucking tragedies. Count me out. ...more When I finished The Magicians I found myself confused. Was Grossman satirizing the genre or contributing to it? I decided that he had set out to do the former, and wound up doing the latter. He somehow fell into that enviable position where his fantasy work was considered literary by the mainstream community that often scorns genre work. A sequel, it would seem to me, is more of a declaration. Satires don't have sequels. So called literary fiction doesn't often have sequels. Grossman goes all in. When I finished The Magicians I found myself confused. Was Grossman satirizing the genre or contributing to it? I decided that he had set out to do the former, and wound up doing the latter. He somehow fell into that enviable position where his fantasy work was considered literary by the mainstream community that often scorns genre work. A sequel, it would seem to me, is more of a declaration. Satires don't have sequels. So called literary fiction doesn't often have sequels. Grossman goes all in. So, it's a fantasy sequel about some disaffected twentysomethings, last seen as disaffected teens. It tells two interlaced stories, one present and one in the recent past. It continues to show the darker side of the somewhat bloodless battles and magics one sees in YA fantasy. But here's the thing: they're adults now. And violence in ADULT fantasy is nothing new. The result is an odd mix: moody and petulant child-adults drifting through a children's fantasy world trying to figure out the rules and mostly falling onto the next step by pure dumb luck. I liked the main characters better than I did in the first book. I still got frustrated with Quentin's ennui, but it helped that he himself was willing to address his disaffection this time. It was interesting to see Julia's side of the story, largely untold in the first book, though I got frustrated with elements of her journey as well. I'm wavering between three and four stars. Four because I found it hard to put the book down, and it did have some neat settings and situations. Three because many of the secondary characters fell a bit flat to me, and several threads dropped off without being regathered. Characters appeared out of convenience and then disappeared again. Four because Quentin had a better arc than in the first book. Three because (view spoiler) [the big scene in which Julia and her friends summon a God who then kills all of her friends and rapes her felt somewhat gratuitous, as if Grossman said to himself \"Well, Julia keeps saying she's been through a lot. What's the worst she could have been through?\" Still, she's a good foil for Quentin, who only thinks he's been through a lot. Really, that's the theme here. Quentin, who has a good life and keeps demanding more, and walks around feeling sorry for himself, learns that others have it far worse. And learns it again, and learns it again. And maybe learns it for real at the end. (hide spoiler) ] I'm going to go with the four, but know that it is a star with an asterisk. I enjoyed the book as I was reading it, but it is souring a little as I write about it. No, I'm going to go with the three. I liked it. I liked it as much as the first one, which I gave a four. Now I'm thoroughly confused. ...more Volume 2 of a trilogy! (Pause for review readers to leave in droves) OK, thank you for staying. So, The Magician King is indeed volume 2 of Lev Grossman\u2019s The Magicians trilogy. The first book in the series was a New York Times bestseller, I don\u2019t know if the other two books are also bestsellers. I read The Magicians in 2014, I thought it was pretty good but, like many Goodreads reviewers, I disliked the protagonist Quentin Coldwater. I thought he was a twat, useless, annoying and selfish. For t Volume 2 of a trilogy! (Pause for review readers to leave in droves) OK, thank you for staying. So, The Magician King is indeed volume 2 of Lev Grossman\u2019s The Magicians trilogy. The first book in the series was a New York Times bestseller, I don\u2019t know if the other two books are also bestsellers. I read The Magicians in 2014, I thought it was pretty good but, like many Goodreads reviewers, I disliked the protagonist Quentin Coldwater. I thought he was a twat, useless, annoying and selfish. For this reason, alone I was not planning to read the remaining two volumes. However, earlier this year I watched Syfy\u2019s adaptation of The Magicians , and I thought it was quite good*, and the dramatic finale made me want to get back into the books. Thank you, Syfy! (Not something I had any occasion to say in recent years). The Magician King (terrible title) has a twin plotlines. The main plotline focuses on Quentin Coldwater and three other friends now comfortably ensconced in Fillory, a parallel world very much derivative of C.S. Lewis \u2019 Narnia. Living it up as royalty (hence the title), having graduated from Brakebills University (yes, deliberately derivative of J.K. Rowling \u2019s Hogwarts). The lazing about soon comes to an end when a tax discrepancy comes to light which unexpectedly leads to information that Fillory is in danger. The secondary plot strand is a flashback that concerns Julie, a girl who was rejected by Brakebills and sacrifices everything she holds dear to learn magic from unlicensed organizations. Her quest to become a first class magician ends very badly for her even though she attains her objective. The price is much higher than anyone would want to pay. The trouble with reviewing this series is that I feel the need to include the word \u201cderivative\u201d which usually has negative connotations. If this word is not included I have a feeling some review readers will roll their eyes and simply dismiss the series as a rip-off of classics of the fantasy genre. However, Grossman has done something very interesting with this series. In the previous book, he examines what a university of magic would be like in the real world, populated by realistic undergraduates, warts and all. In this book he explores how a Narnia-like world would function, what would being a king or a queen of such a place really entail. The Magician King , even more than the previous book, is also a character study, charting the personal growth of Quentin Coldwater, Julie\u2019s extremely traumatic journey to becoming an extraordinary magician. Unlike the classic series that inspire it, the Magicians series is certainly not for kids, not even Y.A. There is some explicit sex and violence in The Magician King , including a rape scene. Game of Thrones fans should not have any problems. Besides looking at children\u2019s fantasy tropes through adult lens The Magician King is also a fast-paced rip-roaring adventure tale in its own right, with quests, riddles, monsters and wild magic galore. I have to say I like The Magician King much more than The Magicians , the protagonist of the previous book has matured considerably, becoming much less selfish and even heroic at times. At the beginning of the book Quentin is the same self-indulgent character carried over from the previous book\u2014but with one important difference\u2014he aspires to be a hero. By the end of the book, he achieves that but finds that heroism is not all it is cracked up to be. I won\u2019t elaborate on this, but consider whether Batman is a happy hero, and you will get the idea. I also enjoy Grossman\u2019s writing style, witty, funny, and packed full of pop culture references (bonus points for mentioning Van Halen and the TARDIS). I find The Magician King to be a very good read, and I am looking forward to reading the last volume The Magician's Land , terrible title notwithstanding. _____________________ * Not as good as Syfy\u2019s adaptation of The Expanse , based on James S.A. Corey \u2019s space opera series of the same name. Now that is the bee\u2019s knees! Quotes: \u201cSupposedly the Thames dragon wrote most of Pink Floyd\u2019s stuff. At least after Syd Barrett left. But there\u2019s no way to prove it.\u201d \u201cI\u2019m Quentin. I\u2019m from Fillory. We\u2019ve come to your island in search of a key.\u201d He glanced at the others and coughed once. It was pretty much impossible to do this without sounding like he was reciting a Monty Python sketch. \u201cIt wasn\u2019t the Fellowship of the Ring, but then again he wasn\u2019t trying to save the world from Sauron, he was attempting to perform a tax audit on a bunch of hick islanders.\u201d \u201cGoogle Street View was an absolute boon to the art and craft of creating long-distance portals.\u201d \u201cThe only shortage that the Fillorian economy suffered from was a chronic shortage of shortages.\u201d \u201cSometimes I think I am fate\u2019s sword. She wields me cruelly.\u201d Quentin wondered what it was like to be so unselfconsciously melodramatic. Nice, probably.\u201d \u201cHe liked the dryads, the mysterious nymphs who watched over oak trees. You really knew you were in a magical fantasy otherworld when a beautiful woman wearing a skimpy dress made of leaves suddenly jumped out of a tree.\u201d Note It is interesting to note that the first book of the trilogy, The Magicians , is the most divisive. It is the most commercially successful but, looking at the GR reviews, a sizable section of the buyers dislike it. Its average GR rating (at the time of writing) is 3.47. This second volume, The Magician King , has a much smaller readership (less than half of book#1 according to GR\u2019s number of ratings), but a higher average score of 3.89. I suppose that means the people who disliked the first book have already jumped ship. More interesting still, the final volume The Magician's Land again has a reduced readership, but an average rating of 4.17. Presumably by the final book only hardcore fans remain! ...more 3.5/5 stars I've gotta admit, I didn't enjoy this as much as book one, but it's still so interesting. I love that this series is like a more \"realistic\" fairy tale where not everything is perfect and amazing all the time, but it's still not really an anti-fairy tale. The characters are still wonderfully flawed, and I really enjoyed getting to see more of Julia's back story, but it was just harder to get through. It didn't grip me as much as book one did. The audiobook narrator is still fantastic th 3.5/5 stars I've gotta admit, I didn't enjoy this as much as book one, but it's still so interesting. I love that this series is like a more \"realistic\" fairy tale where not everything is perfect and amazing all the time, but it's still not really an anti-fairy tale. The characters are still wonderfully flawed, and I really enjoyed getting to see more of Julia's back story, but it was just harder to get through. It didn't grip me as much as book one did. The audiobook narrator is still fantastic though - I don't know if I would've liked it as much reading the physical book. Will definitely be reading book 3, however, because THAT ENDING THO ...more Though I wasn't totally in love with the first book in this series, The Magicians, I did like this book a bit better. In the Magician Kings we meet up with Quentin and friends again, this time as kings and queens of Fillory. Fillory is a magical place outside of Earth as we know it. I found this king and queen stuff corny, and I still couldn't stand the whiny, self absorbed Quentin......twerp. I'm sure the author ment for him to be that annoying but I could bearly stand him. For the first half o Though I wasn't totally in love with the first book in this series, The Magicians, I did like this book a bit better. In the Magician Kings we meet up with Quentin and friends again, this time as kings and queens of Fillory. Fillory is a magical place outside of Earth as we know it. I found this king and queen stuff corny, and I still couldn't stand the whiny, self absorbed Quentin......twerp. I'm sure the author ment for him to be that annoying but I could bearly stand him. For the first half of the book my eyes did a lot of rolling, and I muttered a few \"come on's\" under my breath. But things thankfully picked up for the last half of the book. Julia's story saved this book for me. Julia is one of Quentin's high school friends who took the Breakbills (think Hogwarts at the college level) entrance exam, but failed. Her memory of Breakbills was supposed to wiped out when she was sent away, but it didn't work. So she went out on her own learning magic, not an easy task. She made many sacrifices to gain proficiency, and knowledge, which made her the best out of all of them. I doubt very much that Quentin would have had the nads to do the same. The plot twists at the end were quite good, but of course I can't spoil those for you, and they made this book worth the read. Even made up for Quentin's douchieness. ...more _The Magician King_ is a good book. Still, I found the first half to be a bit of a slow start that was by turns frustrating and enjoyable in almost equal measure, so I kept vacillating between a 3 and 4 for it, so I think it ends up for me at a fairly solid 3.5. The book itself is divided into two more or less equal story halves: one follows Quentin and his friends in Fillory as they go on a diplomatic mission of purely cursory import that turns into a fairly inconsequential 'quest'\u2026this in turn _The Magician King_ is a good book. Still, I found the first half to be a bit of a slow start that was by turns frustrating and enjoyable in almost equal measure, so I kept vacillating between a 3 and 4 for it, so I think it ends up for me at a fairly solid 3.5. The book itself is divided into two more or less equal story halves: one follows Quentin and his friends in Fillory as they go on a diplomatic mission of purely cursory import that turns into a fairly inconsequential 'quest'\u2026this in turn ends up having wider ramifications (though it didn\u2019t totally pull together for me\u2026or to be more precise in many ways it pulled together a little too neatly); the second flashes back to show us what Quentin's old friend Julia was up to while Quentin was doing the Harry Potter shuffle at Brakebills. I think most of the frustrating elements had to do with Quentin, the main character, and the first part of the story. It can certainly be said that he's less of a prat here than he was in _The Magicians_, but somehow I still found him a bit more grating here. Wasn't the whole point of the first volume that he was growing up? Looks like he still didn't learn a heck of a lot from his first series of adventures and was living life in Fillory more or less in the same way as he lived it on Earth in the first book...any wonder he's still complaining? Granted Quentin is supposed to be a more or less realistic 'broken hero', but he seemed to be a touch too pusillanimous for me. His constant whining that where he was right now wasn't where he wanted to be anymore seemed a bit crazy to me given everything he went through in the first book. I mean sure, the human condition pretty much runs on the concept of \"the grass is always greener\" and again, Quentin is meant to be an exemplar...but c'mon Q. grow a pair will you? I found the story of Julia and her harrowing journey on the road to becoming a hedge witch to be a much more compelling tale. The Fillory quest half of the book actually picks up at around book 3 where Quentin and Julia return from an interlude on earth to Fillory...prior to that the questing seemed a little too much like fill in the number plot coupon fantasy that was being followed for the heck of it. Also, some of the dovetailing of various plot elements that went into the quest\u2019s development and resolution seemed a little too neat for me. Everything seemed to work out exactly as required even when it seemed to be going off the rails and Grossman\u2019s meta-textual references to this fact in the text didn\u2019t make it much more interesting or palatable. Still, Quentin seems to have (finally?) grown up and there was enough good stuff in the story to outweigh the bad. ...more Book two is fulled with even more sexism then the first one, which is almost hard to imagine, but Lev Grossman manages to pull it off by writing like some kind of horny per-pubescent teenager looking for any flimsy excuse whatsoever to get his female characters topless so he can describe their breasts in feverish, obsessive, totally unnecessary and excruciating detail. (This review contains spoilers for The Magicians (book 1 in this series), but no significant spoilers for The Magician King. It was originally published on www.tor.com on 8/8/2011 and on www.fantasyliterature.com on 8/16/2011.) At the end of Lev Grossman\u2019s The Magicians, Brakebills graduate Quentin Coldwater abandoned a cushy but dead-end insecure job to become co-ruler of the magical land of Fillory with his former classmates Eliot and Janet and his erstwhile flame Julia. I absolutely loved the (This review contains spoilers for The Magicians (book 1 in this series), but no significant spoilers for The Magician King. It was originally published on www.tor.com on 8/8/2011 and on www.fantasyliterature.com on 8/16/2011.) At the end of Lev Grossman\u2019s The Magicians, Brakebills graduate Quentin Coldwater abandoned a cushy but dead-end insecure job to become co-ruler of the magical land of Fillory with his former classmates Eliot and Janet and his erstwhile flame Julia. I absolutely loved the drama of that final scene, with Eliot, Janet and Julia hovering thirty stories up in the air and shattering Quentin\u2019s office window to drag him along on this new adventure. The Magicians left lots of questions unanswered. How did Julia meet Eliot and Janet, and how exactly did she get so strong? What happened to Josh? Or Penny, for that matter? What was actually going on with the whole Neitherlands setup? Is it just a coincidence that it resembled a huge version of a welters board? (Or more likely the other way round: is the welters board meant to look like a small Neitherlands grid?) And what, most importantly, were these four disaffected young magicians thinking, installing themselves as the rulers of Narnia, sorry, Fillory? As much as I loved The Magicians for presenting a solid stand-on-its-own story, it was at the same time practically begging for a sequel. Thank goodness it\u2019s finally here. At the start of The Magician King, Quentin, Janet, Eliot and Julia are comfortably set up as the kings and queens of Fillory, with Eliot the nominal High King. They lead the leisurely lives of figurehead royalty, eating and drinking luxuriously, going on the occasional royal hunt, waving to the populace from the balcony of their palace. They\u2019re basically lazing around and enjoying themselves. The only thing that proves to be lacking in their lives as the rulers of a magical utopia proves to be, well, a challenge. Or as Quentin realizes, somewhat counter-intuitively in the first chapter of the novel: Being king wasn\u2019t the beginning of the story, it was the end. [...] This was the happily ever after part. Close the book, put it down, walk away. Meanwhile, Julia has amped up her goth appearance and become increasingly quiet and mysterious. She\u2019s \u201cgone native\u201d and, Quentin notes, seems to have given up using contractions altogether. Something has happened to her, something that left her powerful but damaged. Quentin wonders how expensive her education was, and it\u2019s clear that he\u2019s not thinking of the cost in terms of a monetary value. Eventually, Quentin realizes that all this lying around isn\u2019t exactly what he had in mind when he relocated to the magical realm of Fillory, so he jumps at the first chance to do something semi-meaningful: he will conduct an expedition to Outer Island, a tiny and remote speck-on-the-map, predominantly inhabited by fishermen who haven\u2019t paid their taxes for a while. It\u2019s clear that the taxes aren\u2019t really what\u2019s important here \u2014 after all, Fillory is a land of hyperabundance and the only problem with its economy is a chronic shortage of actual shortages. Quentin is just itching to do something heroic, and if that involves refitting a ship (the Muntjac) and setting out to talk to some yokels about their back taxes, at least it also includes an exciting sea voyage and some new horizons. So Quentin sets out on The Voyage of the Dawn Treader Muntjac, accompanied by a sullen apprentice cartographer named Benedict, the best swordsman in the realm (who goes by the unlikely name of Bingle), a talking sloth, and the ever-mysterious Julia. This journey will take them to the one place you\u2019d least suspect \u2014 at least if you haven\u2019t read the plot summary on the inside flap of the novel \u2014 and eventually to a quest that, yes, will determine the very fate of Fillory.... If you loved The Magicians as much as I did, you\u2019ll probably be pleased with The Magician King. Yes, the novelty has worn off a bit, but in exchange you get a story that\u2019s actually more structured and more obviously working its way towards a solid finale than the first novel\u2019s. It\u2019s a proper adventure, really, although as you\u2019d probably expect there are some false starts, detours and roundabouts along the way. You\u2019ll also get answers to some of the questions that were left unanswered in The Magicians, but new questions pop up to take their place. I wish authors did requests, because I now have a list of possible subjects for future stories that could expand on things that are only hinted at here. At one point, a character throws out the idea of inverse profundity \u2014 \"The deeper you go into the cosmic mysteries, the less interesting everything gets.\u201d I haven\u2019t experienced that yet with these books. Quite the opposite, really. The most noticeable change in The Magician King is that Julia takes over the spotlight for a good chunk of the novel. Once Lev Grossman has set up Quentin\u2019s quest, roughly every other chapter starts filling in Julia\u2019s story, recounting what happened to her between her failed entrance exam at Brakebills and the final scene of The Magicians. The good news is that she\u2019s a fascinating character and that her storyline adds a whole new dimension to this fantasy universe. The bad news, at least for people who groused about the mopiness and general \u201cinsanely privileged but still too myopic to be happy\u201d quality of people like Quentin and Eliot, is that Julia is, well, like that, too. Sort of. To be fair, her depression seems to be more of the chemical imbalance variety, rather than Quentin\u2019s all-purpose teenage angst. More importantly (and fortunately) she\u2019s got the gumption to actually do something about what\u2019s lacking in her life. She picks herself up and finds her way into an underground scene for people who want to learn magic but didn\u2019t make it into Brakebills. (Lev Grossman also put me out of my misery by finally throwing in a very welcome reference. Julia always reminded me of someone, but I could never put my finger on it, and now I finally know who it was: Fairuza Balk\u2019s character in The Craft.) By the time Julia\u2019s and Quentin\u2019s plots converge, you\u2019ll have answers to several questions, but again, also many new ones. Julia\u2019s storyline is what makes The Magician King a great book. Meanwhile, Quentin is on his quest, and in the process finds out all sorts of fascinating things about the nature of the Neitherlands, the current whereabouts of some of his other friends, and the origins of magic. For much of the novel, the entire quest seems to be one gigantic red herring. Quentin often has the feeling that he\u2019s in a fantasy novel, just not a proper one. At one point, he hilariously realizes that it\u2019s very hard to deliver his lines without sounding like a Monty Python skit. At other times, he feels like he\u2019s improvising in a play to which everyone has the script, or like he might be a minor character in someone else\u2019s story. He also feels the acute lack of a soundtrack during combat scenes. (At that point, I couldn\u2019t help thinking of another movie: A Knight\u2019s Tale, with its rock soundtrack that provided such a jarring but effective contrast with what was actually happening on screen. Both of these novels often create a literary version of that type of cognitive dissonance, e.g. when someone uses Google Street View to pinpoint the exact location for a magical portal, or uses magic to jailbreak an iPhone.) The Magician King is a deceptively cheerful book, because even if it all seems like a lark for Quentin early on, there\u2019s a darker undercurrent right from the beginning. Regardless, it\u2019s again a highly entertaining book to read because it\u2019s filled with cultural references, from Shakespeare to video games and, of course, lots of fantasy. There are so many of these that the prose practically sparkles with possible points of contact for the larger geek culture out there. Grossman also sets up several scenes perfectly, leading you to expect something to happen, only to find out that you\u2019re having the rug pulled out from under you, sometimes in a way that\u2019s truly, horribly shocking. I fell for these hook, line and sinker. Be warned, gentle reader. If you loved The Magicians, you probably don\u2019t need much convincing to check out this sequel. Yes, it\u2019s a very different book: the whole Harry Potter shtick is basically gone, Quentin has gained some welcome confidence, Julia is front and center. At the same time, it riffs on the same themes and ideas that made The Magicians so good, and it adds some layers to the story and the fantasy universe. Some of these don\u2019t exactly line up for me yet, but maybe all will be explained in another sequel? There\u2019d better be another book in this series, because dammit, I want more. ...more \"The hero pays the price.\" Well, shit. If you would have told me last month that not only would I give The Magicians ( THE MAGICIANS ) four stars, but that I would get so worked up by its sequel that I would burst into tears, I would NOT have believed you. I got soooooo mad and weird when I read The Magicians five years ago, I swore I would never read any sequels, or anything else Lev Grossman ever wrote, and then somewhere along the line I changed my mind, acquired the sequels (in hardcover even) a \"The hero pays the price.\" Well, shit. If you would have told me last month that not only would I give The Magicians ( THE MAGICIANS ) four stars, but that I would get so worked up by its sequel that I would burst into tears, I would NOT have believed you. I got soooooo mad and weird when I read The Magicians five years ago, I swore I would never read any sequels, or anything else Lev Grossman ever wrote, and then somewhere along the line I changed my mind, acquired the sequels (in hardcover even) and decided to re-read. As of writing this, I haven't written my review of #1 because it's going to take some thinking, but I wanted to shoot off a quick review of this one before it fades from my mind. The Magician King picks up two years after the end of the first book. Quentin, Julia, Eliot and Janet are kings and queens in Fillory, but Quentin has grown fat and bored with his pampered life, because of course he has. Quentin has always been the kind of person who is so up his own butt that he expects the world to just give him what he needs to be happy. It's this weird privileged mindset that all of Grossman's genius character seem to have, but Quentin is the worst of the lot. This turns out to be okay, though, as the book is very much about his journey to unlearn the way he sees himself and the world. Essentially, Quentin has to grow up, and he has to do it the hard way. Another thing that elevates this book above the first one is that half of it is Julia's story. It fills in the blanks, how she got from that winter's day when she failed the Brakebills exam to being the most powerful magician that any of them know. In a lot of places her story is sort of hard to read, but it's also really interesting, seeing the back-alley approach to magical education. I thought the parallel narratives actually worked really well together, as Quentin and Julia et al go questing in a very Voyage of the Dawn Treader meta sort of way in the present day story, right alongside the flashbacks into Julia's magical education. Anyways, I'm super glad I got back into this series, and I have high hopes for the third and final book. ...more I clearly liked this book better than The Magicians , as I rated it five stars, where I rated the prior four stars. But why? A number of reasons: 1) The world-building was already done. In the first book, Grossman took a lot of time to set up his fantasy multiverse, including creating a quidditch-like game, Welters, which didn't add anything to the overall story, and sending Quentin-and-company on a semester abroad to the antarctic as geese, which, despite being in a fantasy novel, was still too r I clearly liked this book better than The Magicians , as I rated it five stars, where I rated the prior four stars. But why? A number of reasons: 1) The world-building was already done. In the first book, Grossman took a lot of time to set up his fantasy multiverse, including creating a quidditch-like game, Welters, which didn't add anything to the overall story, and sending Quentin-and-company on a semester abroad to the antarctic as geese, which, despite being in a fantasy novel, was still too ridiculous to be taken seriously (it was the Tom Bombadil moment of the first book). In the second book, the exposition is all out of the way. The reader knows Quentin and his friends, their x-rated Hogwarts, and the pseudo-Narnia lurking just beyond the looking glass. This accelerates the adventure in the story, where in the first book, the real adventure doesn't begin until Quentin finishes his somewhat tedious slog through magic school. 2) The pacing was better. The story is entirely linear in the first novel, and the pacing is a bit jerky. This novel, however, starts off rolling right from the beginning, and is cut with flashback segments of Julia's self-education as a hedge witch, which helped keep the adventure from flying by too quickly. It makes me wonder if the first book could have been told in the same way, with Quentin's first quest to Fillory being interspersed with flashbacks to his Brakebills education. 3) There was less sex. Now I can't believe I just wrote that, because I am very liberal in my tastes -- there is not much I find to be too crude, vulgar, or over-the-top. But that is not why I didn't appreciate the sex in the first book, it was because it happened so frequently without advancing the story -- almost to say, hey look, this isn't Harry Potter, Quentin can fuck anybody, and everybody! The only sex that really did affect the plot was pairing of Penny and Alice, and that was the only sex scene that wasn't shown to the reader. In the second book, Grossman makes allusions to sex, but does not unnecessarily detail every orgasm a character does or doesn't have. (view spoiler) [And the one sex scene that is shown is the rape of Julia by the fox-god, which is integral to the overall plot of the second book as well as to Julia's character development. (hide spoiler) ] 4) The tone is established. Grossman had to do a lot of work to show everyone exactly what kind of urban fantasy he was creating in the first book, especially with all the Harry Potter and Narnia lampshading and head nodding. But here he moves past that, and just creates an awesome urban fantasy with interesting characters and a great story-line. 5) Quentin whined less. The title speaks for itself on that one. I am very much looking forward to reading the third book, The Magician's Land , especially because of the dark-as-hell ending of this book almost has me wondering if Quentin could become the villain of the story -- because one one hand, I wouldn't mind (view spoiler) [living out the rest of my life in a mansion in Venice as a millionaire magician, even at the cost of all my friends (hide spoiler) ] , but on the other hand, (view spoiler) [I'm pretty sure I would try to kill Fillory's ram-god Ember if he kicked me out of Fillory after saving his world and the entirety of magic (hide spoiler) ] . But that's just me. ...more Wow, I didn't think I could like Quentin Coldwater *less* than I did in The Magicians, but it is, in fact, possible. There is no moment in this book when I do not despise the protagonist. At least in this one, we got Julia's story, which had some interesting moments, especially the scenes in the safe houses. It also had some really bad moments. In no particular order: I am insulted on behalf of us non-magical scholars that the Murs magicians come up with a system that ties together all world reli Wow, I didn't think I could like Quentin Coldwater *less* than I did in The Magicians, but it is, in fact, possible. There is no moment in this book when I do not despise the protagonist. At least in this one, we got Julia's story, which had some interesting moments, especially the scenes in the safe houses. It also had some really bad moments. In no particular order: I am insulted on behalf of us non-magical scholars that the Murs magicians come up with a system that ties together all world religions and beliefs in a matter of months; I am deeply fucking offended by Grossman's portrayal of Free Trader Beowulf and the policing of depression he describes; I am even more offended by the rape scene, which was just gratuitous. (I am restraining myself from calling it every synonym of gratuitous that I know. Seriously, it adds nothing to the narrative.) Poppy is the only goddamn redeeming feature here, and I lose a lot of respect for her in the last pages, when she walks away from her dissertation on dragons to be a queen in Fillory. There are no dragons in Fillory! Her life is on Earth! There is no freakin' motivation given for that turnabout whatsoever, except \"Fillory needs me\" and I frankly do not buy that, since after X hundred pages in two books, I still have no understanding of what makes Fillory awesome. And Poppy has never been to Fillory proper, she has spent her entire journey on a damn boat. I quit. If this is what fantasy looks like when it's grownup and respectable, I want to stay in the slums. ...more \"So Madeline,\" say you, my imaginary reading companion, \"what did you think of The Magician King , Lev Grossman's sequel to that book that smashed your childhood love of fantasy stories into smithereens? Does the second book achieve similar levels of heart-crushing, or is it more of a balm after the pain of the first book (since in this one, the kids get to live in Fillory and be royalty)?\" To you, faithful reader, I reply that everything you need to know about what kind of book The Magician King \"So Madeline,\" say you, my imaginary reading companion, \"what did you think of The Magician King , Lev Grossman's sequel to that book that smashed your childhood love of fantasy stories into smithereens? Does the second book achieve similar levels of heart-crushing, or is it more of a balm after the pain of the first book (since in this one, the kids get to live in Fillory and be royalty)?\" To you, faithful reader, I reply that everything you need to know about what kind of book The Magician King is can be found in the following excerpt: \"'This isn't how it ends!' Quentin said. 'I am the hero of this goddamned story, Ember! Remember? And the hero gets the reward!' 'No, Quentin,' the ram said. 'The hero pays the price.'\" God damn you, Lev Grossman. You magnificent bastard. ...more I had really enjoyed The Magicians but I was a little confused about its intentions \u2013 was it a deconstruction of, and comment on, the fantasy genre; or did it want to be taken seriously as a work of fantasy in its own right? There was a sense of Grossman trying to have his cake and eat it too, and although the results had an inherent tension that I found very rewarding, it also somehow fell between two stools. Have you got that \u2013 a half-eaten cake between two stools? Right, we're on the same pag I had really enjoyed The Magicians but I was a little confused about its intentions \u2013 was it a deconstruction of, and comment on, the fantasy genre; or did it want to be taken seriously as a work of fantasy in its own right? There was a sense of Grossman trying to have his cake and eat it too, and although the results had an inherent tension that I found very rewarding, it also somehow fell between two stools. Have you got that \u2013 a half-eaten cake between two stools? Right, we're on the same page. If the cake and stools are also on a page. Let's move on. Anyway, so the sequel would, I thought, be more of a declaration of intent. The slightly twee rubbishness of Fillory in the first book made sense as a way of discussing the limitations of fantasy utopias, but as a setting for a real attempt at world-building and epic drama it didn't seem very promising. To my irritation but also my grudging admiration, Grossman continues to try to push both angles at once in this middle book, writing a standard quest narrative whose participants are self-aware enough to make it kind-of-sort-of-just-about work as a commentary on quest narratives too. The jumping-off point is essentially where a book like The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe ends \u2013 with four kids from Earth ensconced as kings and queens of a fantasy realm, and it attempts to consider what this would actually be like. What would you do all day? How would you run a magical kingdom? Is there admin? Would it be mind-numbingly boring? Running alongside this is an episodic, analeptic retracing of what Julia was up to during the events of the first book \u2013 her story does a lot to flesh out Grossman's world and his idea of magic, and her narrative offers a very welcome counterpoint to Quentin's point of view (though he, too, has noticeably matured from the adolescent dick he was in book one). Julia's story is gritty and goes to some very dark places, but it's nice to see that she's just as fucked-up as he is, if not more so. What I like about these books is the narrative tone, the slangy conversational awareness, the snappy one-liners about other fantasy reference-points, the allusions to D&D, Gauntlet, Dr Who. I can understand why dedicated fantasy fanboys find Grossman's approach disrespectful or overly cynical, but for me, as someone who grew up loving the genre but who now finds its earnestness hard to escape into, the register is perfectly pitched. A sequence where our heroes go back to the original home of the CS-Lewis-like author of the books-within-a-book, and discover a yuppie estate with a precocious child who \u2018could have been cloned from Christopher Robin's toenail clippings\u2019, is a set-piece that encapsulates all of Grossman's meta-generic playfulness (as well as some of the problems with his plotting and pacing). The incorporation of religion with magic in this book was particularly interesting \u2013 at first it made me angry, and, like Julia, I found myself needing to suppress my \u2018intellectual gag reflex\u2019. Eventually it occurred to me that this irritation was not exactly commensurate with suspending disbelief in a world with talking sloths and magic haberdashery. If magic is real \u2013 a part of the real world that we know \u2013 then where does that leave religion, exactly? This turned out to be more interesting than I realised and I was wondering about the implications for much longer than I expected to \u2013 one of the many ways this series can annoy and intrigue you all at once. I'm not sure how to call it. There are a couple of characters whose fates appear to have been ignored \u2013 we'll see if he comes back to them in the final book. If he does sort out some of those loose ends, and manages to keep the writing fun without succumbing to the temptation to make everything all serious and important for the big finish, then he'll be forgiven for quite a lot I reckon. One of the tonally weirdest series I can remember reading for some time\u2026. ...more I\u2019ve been sitting on this review for weeks, waiting for my thoughts to settle. This is a frustrating, slippery, controlled, funny, beautiful book, and it left me with very complicated feelings. It\u2019s a double-stranded narrative: one is Quentin, bored with being King of Fillory and off on a grand sea voyage that takes him through multiple worlds and to the making and unmaking of universes. The other is Julia. Oh, Julia. Who didn\u2019t make it into special people magic school like Quentin, and who had t I\u2019ve been sitting on this review for weeks, waiting for my thoughts to settle. This is a frustrating, slippery, controlled, funny, beautiful book, and it left me with very complicated feelings. It\u2019s a double-stranded narrative: one is Quentin, bored with being King of Fillory and off on a grand sea voyage that takes him through multiple worlds and to the making and unmaking of universes. The other is Julia. Oh, Julia. Who didn\u2019t make it into special people magic school like Quentin, and who had to force her way into power by a completely different route. Her story is \u2013 jesus. It left me nailed to my chair, tears prickling just behind my eyes, having one of those weird experiences where you emerge from the book and wonder sincerely whether you\u2019ve been breathing for the past ten minutes. Here\u2019s where the complicated feelings start. Quentin says early on that magic school had \u201ctaught them to be arch and ironic about magic, but Julia took it seriously.\u201d Well, of course. Being arch and ironic about something is the privilege of those who were given it on a silver platter; it\u2019s not often available to someone who had to tear out her soul by the roots just to get a glimpse. Grossman puts his finger closer to it when he says, \u201cShe didn\u2019t hate Quentin, that wasn\u2019t it. Quentin was fine. He was just in the way. He\u2019d gotten it so easy, and she had it so hard, and why? There was no good reason: he passed a test and she failed it. That was a judgment on the test, not on her.\u201d Which is a pithy summary of being on the wrong end of privilege, if I\u2019ve ever heard one. My point being that this book is arch and ironic about fantasy literature, right up to the point where it takes it deadly seriously. And I love that. Except the things you get to be arch and ironic about and the things you get to be serious about are really telling; they dig deep into whether you\u2019ve had . . . access to fantasy, I guess. Whether anyone let you into the club, and how hard you had to work at it, depending on whether there was ever anyone like you or a world like yours in fantasy. Whether, to appropriate a perfect metaphor and shove it sideways, you have been permitted to dream of dragons . I responded on this intense, visceral level to this book because I\u2019ve been both Quentin and Julia at different times. I\u2019ve taken both their routes in pursuit of power, education, money, respect. So the places where I could take this book with arch irony and the places where I had to take it deadly seriously are idiosyncratic, and they didn\u2019t always line up with where Grossman was being arch and ironical and where he was being serious. Which doesn\u2019t make this book wrong, it just made me pace a lot, and chew my nails, and want to strangle Quentin slightly more than he deserves strangling. (Which is still a moderate amount, by the way. There\u2019s this moment early on where Quentin basically thinks \u201coh good, we\u2019re traveling together, this is where we can fall in love and have sex.\u201d And it is a measure of the effectiveness of the rest of this book how that becomes exponentially more self-absorbed and horrible the more you read.) Anyway, long review short, it\u2019s great. Seriously. There\u2019s this definition of magic, \u201cit was what happened when the mind met the world, and the mind won for a change.\u201d Which encapsulates a lot about this book, and the way it loves fantasy, and the way it uses that love to talk about writing your own story, and how being a hero is, as a nested folk tale says, about knowing the right cues, but how it\u2019s also other stuff. ...more Executive Summary: A few minor complaints, but overall another enjoyable entry in this series, and far less depressing. If you enjoyed the second half of The Magicians , you'll likely enjoy this. Audio book: Mark Bramhall once again does an excellent job narrating, making this a perfect choice to do in audio. Great inflection, and pretty good accents. Full Review This one started a bit slow for me. I wasn't really sure where it was going to go. Once it got going, it didn't slow down again. I think Executive Summary: A few minor complaints, but overall another enjoyable entry in this series, and far less depressing. If you enjoyed the second half of The Magicians , you'll likely enjoy this. Audio book: Mark Bramhall once again does an excellent job narrating, making this a perfect choice to do in audio. Great inflection, and pretty good accents. Full Review This one started a bit slow for me. I wasn't really sure where it was going to go. Once it got going, it didn't slow down again. I think my favorite part of this book was the flashbacks catching us up on what Julie had been up to during the first book. I really like her alternate to Breakbills. It gave me a bit of that \"magic school\" trope that I love so much despite being essentially the complete opposite. Once again though I think Mr. Grossman takes this a bit too far for a sense of realism or something? Some details of the story would have been better off edited out as far as I'm concerned. I don't feel like they added anything to the story, but that sense of gloomy malaise that bothered me in the first book. Thankfully it's not nearly as constant or as thick. I think Quinton is much more likable in this book than the first. Or at least as likable as he was in the first half of that book. He does seem to have grown up a bit, and be a little less mopey. He still struggles to be happy throughout though. I really like the world building here. I would have liked more detail on things. We still don't really get a good explanation on magic as I prefer. We do get some more background on the universe and magic though. I generally found this book more fun than the first, though I wouldn't go so far as to call this a fun book. This series has definitely gone a different direction than I originally expected from this series, but that's not a bad thing. I'll be curious to see things where Mr. Grossman takes things for the final book of the series. ...more The deconstruction of the fantasy genre continues in this amazing sequel to The Magicians. I still think Lev's writing is a hit-or-miss and only those who appreciate his writing should bother to continue reading this series. Also: Julia, one of the best girl characters out there. Hands down. Although it wasn't a perfect book, this is a worthy follow-up to The Magicians . There is advancement in Quentin's story, and he's actually growing up and being less of a putz. I did like Quentin more in this book, but he'll never be a favorite hero of mine. Actually, none of the lead characters are especially likable, to be honest. Julia has more of a POV in this book, and I found that I had a violent dislike for her in some aspects of the story, and mild sense of sympathy in the others. Overall Although it wasn't a perfect book, this is a worthy follow-up to The Magicians . There is advancement in Quentin's story, and he's actually growing up and being less of a putz. I did like Quentin more in this book, but he'll never be a favorite hero of mine. Actually, none of the lead characters are especially likable, to be honest. Julia has more of a POV in this book, and I found that I had a violent dislike for her in some aspects of the story, and mild sense of sympathy in the others. Overall, I will never be a big fan of her. One of my big problems with Julia is that she continued to blame Quentin for her misfortunes and was unwilling to accept any fault for her own choices. Yes, she suffered from depression, but that shouldn't be an excuse to abuse and hate others who don't measure up to overweening sense of superiority. Yes, he should have spoken up for her so she could get another chance at Brakebills, but it was her fault she didn't take her exam seriously. Julia has a sense of mental superiority and a general antipathy for people that I found off-putting. She might be extremely intelligent and had become a top level magician (admittedly making huge sacrifices for that), but she didn't seem to learn how to treat others with respect. Having said that, what she suffered was beyond horrible, even if, in a strange way, it helped her to achieve what she wanted. In the end, it turned out that she gave up everything for something that turned out not to be the path to true happiness. And in a strange way, Quentin turns out to be a true friend to her in a way that she never was to him. Grossman is a very good writer. His imagery and descriptive flare is incredible. I feel that he suffers in writing characters that are sympathetic. It's all and good to keep a reader reading because of witticisms and clever ideas, along with entrancing imagery, but many people read books because want a hero to root for. Quentin did become more of what I consider a hero, but he has some negative traits that make his armor look dull. Julia has a personality that's more like the Wicked Witch than Dorothy. How about a happy medium? This series is not for readers who find bad language and who get offended at an acerbic and hypercritical view at traditional values. As with the first book, attitude that anything goes as far as sex and drinking and doing drugs can be hard to swallow. Also that mental superiority of the characters gets pretty old. Why do I keep reading these books? Because I am in love with contemporary fantasy, and Grossman has a very interesting point of view on that subject. The vantage point of the hedge magicians' world was highly fascinating. Grossman takes the world-building to the next level without the narrow confines of the Brakebills system, and he doesn't limit the setting to good old Fillory, which was nice. His explanation for mythical creatures in the modern, non-magical world was a nice touch. I wasn't too fond of the direction he took with investigating paganism as a way to achieve a higher level of magical ability and that event that resulted was really hard to read (or in my case listen to). Some readers who have an issue with rape will want to be very careful with this book. I question was that a necessary choice and I wonder why that seemed to be the way to deal tragedy in a heavy dose for one of the characters instead of another type of plot device. I also question the anti-climactic conclusion of this novel as far as Quentin's hero's journey. Having said that, I will pick up the finale in the near future. As an aside, the SyFy Channel production of The Magicians is very good. It has much of what might appeal to readers, and is pretty faithful to the book overall. I will keep getting the audiobooks for these because they are really good to listen to. This has a different narrator than the first book, and I think I liked him better. He was less snide-sounding. With these characters, one doesn't need more of a snide, I'm better than everyone tone. ...more The Magician King As the pieces of the complicated puzzle, the final parts of the dizzy maze, the answers to the crazy riddles, all came together\u2026 or blew wide open, however you want to look at it, a feeling of real nostalgia came over me and I felt authentic love for these characters like they were my real family, my people, my flawed and nerdy friends. And however bad or selfish or immature much of their behavior may have been, their pursuit of magic really just a highly addictive and dangerou The Magician King As the pieces of the complicated puzzle, the final parts of the dizzy maze, the answers to the crazy riddles, all came together\u2026 or blew wide open, however you want to look at it, a feeling of real nostalgia came over me and I felt authentic love for these characters like they were my real family, my people, my flawed and nerdy friends. And however bad or selfish or immature much of their behavior may have been, their pursuit of magic really just a highly addictive and dangerous drug that makes you become selfish and dedicated to the one high, in the end I was proud of every one of them, a huge lump in my throat for all of them and I say a fond goodbye until the next book shows up. I don\u2019t know that these books are for everyone. They are slightly R-rated (adult situations and brief nudity), there\u2019s no fairy-like quality to the main players, no fancy Bilbo or Frodo ending, no Lion licking your face (well, maybe a little bit), no feel good princesses to love and hug you and wave a magic wand over you. But there are heroic moments, dedicated nerds doing everything in their power to make the world a better place, trying to figure out the riddles of heaven and hell. There are a few intense love stories, some huge sacrifices and a lot of fun juxtaposition of a fairyland with the real world of 2014, which are sometimes so hilarious and clever. But it\u2019s one of the things that maybe makes this world so fun to read. You don\u2019t have to try to pretend you\u2019re somewhere in the middle ages. All of the elements of good story telling are here. Great and realistic characters are created, their growth and continuing personalities stay consistent with the earlier teenage versions of themselves, the fantasy worlds we get to explore here are full of relevant and philosophically challenging events, but more than any of this hooked me, it was the love and dynamics of the core characters themselves. It\u2019s a lot like raising a ton of kids along with their best friends, who fight a lot when they\u2019re young, some of them get into trouble and do stupid things, some excel in school, others don\u2019t, but in the end, they support each other, grow into functioning adults and sometimes, heartbreaking things happen along the way. OK, so I\u2019m fully vested now and a real fan. I really didn\u2019t quite get to five stars until the end of this second book. Thanks to Caroline\u2019s great remarks who recruited me in, just like happened to Quentin. ...more I wasn't a fan of the first book when I read it earlier this year, and while I think this second book is better written I won't be continuing onto the third book. It's a work of fiction that, like the hyped-up Gone Girl (which I am now torn about seeing in cinemas), seems to fit in all the ideas and subversive concepts for what a 'good book' should contain. And like Gone Girl I actually find the plot disjointed, the characters completely unlikeable jerks and the story lacking in true substance. F I wasn't a fan of the first book when I read it earlier this year, and while I think this second book is better written I won't be continuing onto the third book. It's a work of fiction that, like the hyped-up Gone Girl (which I am now torn about seeing in cinemas), seems to fit in all the ideas and subversive concepts for what a 'good book' should contain. And like Gone Girl I actually find the plot disjointed, the characters completely unlikeable jerks and the story lacking in true substance. Following the previous book there is plenty to do with characters and the alternate world of Fillory and the whole concept of 'saving magic' and gods and so on being responsible for magic. I sensed a lot of subtle digs (and not so subtle) at the whole idea of children's fantasy books like Narnia or Harry Potter and also religion. Grossman doesn't seem to really like any of these, dismissing them as naive or childish which I really don't like myself for various reasons. I guess in the end this whole 'grown up fantasy' trend is something I truly dislike. I have said it before and I will say it again: a great story, a truly great story, is one both children and adults can enjoy. That is why I will always love Narnia - aside from the connections it gave me to my family and reading - because you can read it as a child, read it as an adult, read it for the story or read it for the allegory. It doesn't really matter - but anyone can read it! ...more The first book in this series, The Magicians, started out soooooooo slllloooooowwwwwlllllyyyy. But when I was finished, I thought the journey was worth it. This story gets moving a little quicker than The Magicians, and it's more engaging, I think. It's told from Quentin's point of view in the present, and Julia's point of view in the past. For the first half of the book, I would not have been able to tell you what the story was about. But about 50% through, the story threads start to come together. I The first book in this series, The Magicians, started out soooooooo slllloooooowwwwwlllllyyyy. But when I was finished, I thought the journey was worth it. This story gets moving a little quicker than The Magicians, and it's more engaging, I think. It's told from Quentin's point of view in the present, and Julia's point of view in the past. For the first half of the book, I would not have been able to tell you what the story was about. But about 50% through, the story threads start to come together. If I were comparing the first half of this book to a character, I would describe it as Luna Lovegood -- quirky, weird, interesting, and not sure if you like her or not. But when everything started coming together, I thought the story was brilliant. Here's my YouTube review . ...more I'm catching up on reviews after getting horribly far behind so these will be short. The Magician King takes up about a year after The Magicians left off. And you guessed it, these former magicians on Earth are now kings and queens of the magical land of Fillory. Of course this idyllic life doesn't last and it's not like the last book left things all tied up and then Quentin goes and gets himself lost from Fillory with no way to return. I'm a sucker for a coming-of-age, even one that plays with th I'm catching up on reviews after getting horribly far behind so these will be short. The Magician King takes up about a year after The Magicians left off. And you guessed it, these former magicians on Earth are now kings and queens of the magical land of Fillory. Of course this idyllic life doesn't last and it's not like the last book left things all tied up and then Quentin goes and gets himself lost from Fillory with no way to return. I'm a sucker for a coming-of-age, even one that plays with the trope, but especially one that takes place in magic school so The Magician King had the cards stacked against it. The Magicians blew me away and I thought a sequel would be incredibly difficult to follow, but The Magician King is a worthy followup. I think the former takes the cake for me, but only barely and that's amazing. I wanted to write briefly about the ending because it bugged me slightly, but not enough to ruin the whole book. (view spoiler) [It's the point where Quentin can't go on because he does the right thing and lets Julia go in his place. I'd accept the reason more if they just said you can take her place instead of because of a stupid jump in logic (i.e. highly lacking any logic) he's blamed for the mess and can't go. Just didn't work for me and now you can tell it's been too long that I can't even remember the place they go to. :) (hide spoiler) ] Grossman's created an incredible world here and I can't wait to read The Magician's Land next year. 4.5 out of 5 (very highly recommended) The Magicians 1) The Magicians 2) The Magician King 3) The Magician's Land ...more 3.5 Stars rated up *Warning: This Review May Contain Spoilers If You Have Not Read The Magicians* After finishing the first book in the The Magicians trilogy, I was extremely eager to continue with the rest of the series. I had listened to the first book through Audible and I really enjoyed reading The Magicians in that format, so naturally I decided to use my monthly free credit on the second novel as well! In case you haven\u2019t read my review of The Magicians, I mentioned that I enjoyed it a lot mo 3.5 Stars rated up *Warning: This Review May Contain Spoilers If You Have Not Read The Magicians* After finishing the first book in the The Magicians trilogy, I was extremely eager to continue with the rest of the series. I had listened to the first book through Audible and I really enjoyed reading The Magicians in that format, so naturally I decided to use my monthly free credit on the second novel as well! In case you haven\u2019t read my review of The Magicians, I mentioned that I enjoyed it a lot more than I had originally expected to. It\u2019s hard not to notice the amount of mixed reviews that these novels receive on Goodreads. I try my hardest not to be influenced by other peoples thoughts and feelings and I try my best to keep an open mind and form my own thoughts on the books that I read. I\u2019m glad that I was able to this while reading The Magicians as I ended up really enjoying it. Although I have wanted to read this trilogy for a while, my main reasoning behind starting it recently was because I really wanted to start watching the television adaptation. As I mentioned in my review of The Magicians, I watched the first two episodes after reading the first novel and I couldn\u2019t help but notice how different it was from the first book. It wasn\u2019t until after I started watching that I was informed that the television show brought in different elements from all three novels into the first season. That was the push I needed to begin reading the second book as soon as possible. The Magician King begins a short time after the final events that occurred in The Magicians. Quentin, Eliot, Janet & Julia are now the Kings and Queens on Fillory. Quentin being who he is, becomes bored of just sitting on a throne all day and is very persistent on partaking in some sort of quest or adventure. It seems to me that Quentin is never satisfied. Nothing is ever good enough for him. He wished for there to be more than Earth and he got Fillory. Now as a King in Fillory, he\u2019s bored. I feel like Quentin still has a lot of maturing to do. Although he does grow slightly by the end of this second installment, I hope he grows even further in the third and final novel. A burning question that I had on my mind after finishing the first novel was centred around Julia. How did she end up a Queen of Fillory? She wasn\u2019t around for much of the first novel, but obviously things were happening behind the scenes that we as the reader had to yet to learn about. My one and only wish for The Magician King was that I hoped that it would explain more about Julia and what happened to her during the time that Quentin was away at Brakebills. And just like that, my wish was granted. Every few chapters, we go back in time a little to what Julia went through after failing the Brakebills entry exam. We know that the magic that was supposed to erase any memory of Brakebills didn\u2019t work on her and that she decided to seek out magic on her own. Within these chapters, we learn exactly what Julia went through. She had completely alienated herself from her family and put all of her time in becoming a hedge witch, someone who learns magic unconventionally. We learn about all of the intricate and lengthy processes that Julia experienced before becoming the powerful witch and Queen of Fillory that we meet at the end of The Magicians. I loved learning about Julia\u2019s backstory and these moments really tied in to the scenes during the first two episodes of the television show that I was the most confused about. Other than Quentin and Julia, a lot of familiar faces return throughout The Magician King. Eliot, my favourite character from the first novel is now one of the two Kings, alongside Quentin, of Fillory. He seems more mature this time around and I hope that Quentin will eventually grow in the same way that Eliot does. Janet on the other hand, is basically non-existent throughout this novel. She\u2019s barely in it at all and I\u2019m starting to question her importance to the story. While we see the return of a lot of familiar faces, I still think one particular character is still going to be making a comeback\u2026hopefully within the third and final novel. One thing that did bother me about The Magician King is how all over the place the storyline was. There was a lot of world jumping, from Fillory to Earth to the Underworld and back again. All of that on top of the in-between chapters containing Julia's flashbacks. It wasn\u2019t hard to follow by any means, but it did feel like a lot was happening and there wasn\u2019t enough focus and detail on one specific event. While I did enjoy the first novel more than the second, I am extremely excited to continue with the third and final book in the series, The Magician\u2019s Land. Especially after the way that The Magician King ended. My only wish is that we don\u2019t get the same repetitive world jumping scenarios as we did during the second installment. I am still really enjoying this series and I can\u2019t wait to finish reading it so I can also continue with the television series! -- Initial post reading thoughts: While I did enjoy this second installment in The Magicians series, I will say that I enjoyed the first book slightly more. The Magician King felt slightly all over the place. There was a lot going on and it felt like a few different storylines all bunched together. I did really enjoy learning more about Julia and what happened to her on the sidelines while the events of the first novel were occurring. I still love the satirical and comical feel of this story and I plan on reading the third and final novel soon so I can start binging the TV series! ...more Not a masterpiece like the first book but a solid outing in many ways. And a huge disappointment in one way. First to the good. The Magician King was nearly as engrossing as The Magicians . Not as hard to put down, but I always looked forward to picking it back up. I did thoroughly enjoy reading it. Grossman does a nice job conjuring a magic system and a believable main character. Quentin is awkward and sometimes irritating and doesn\u2019t act quite as smart as he\u2019s supposed to be, but he feels like a Not a masterpiece like the first book but a solid outing in many ways. And a huge disappointment in one way. First to the good. The Magician King was nearly as engrossing as The Magicians . Not as hard to put down, but I always looked forward to picking it back up. I did thoroughly enjoy reading it. Grossman does a nice job conjuring a magic system and a believable main character. Quentin is awkward and sometimes irritating and doesn\u2019t act quite as smart as he\u2019s supposed to be, but he feels like a real person. I didn\u2019t love him as a character, but I wanted to know what was going to happen to him next. Hoping he\u2019d learn something. That being said, a bit of the thrill of the new environment has worn off. I felt that the plot line wandered this time, despite it being intentionally plotted that way (as a quest).* The characters start in the magical world of Fillory, then get shunted back to Earth, then back to Fillory again. An author must walk a fine line when the main character doesn\u2019t understand why he is being batted about like a magic shuttlecock even though the author does. And that line is the story\u2019s forward momentum. I think that line is a bit too thin here. As is my metaphor. The story also alternates chapter by chapter between the forward moving story and Quentin\u2019s friend Julia\u2019s back story. It being a back story does not help with the momentum issue either. And I found Julia harder to \u201csee\u201d than Quentin. Physically, I could see her beautiful, goth street magician appearance, but I couldn\u2019t see her as a real being. I also found the ending of The Magican King to be awkward much like Quentin himself. It felt too posed, too dry, too insincere. The characters became chess pieces. It wasn\u2019t so much a glorious climax as a modest shrug. Lastly, there was one particular item that made me curl my lip with disdain at The Magician King . Some of you may have read my first novel, Death by Zamboni , which is partly a satire of commercialism and television. In that book, I present each chapter as sponsored by different corporations, and I invent ridiculous taglines for each sponsor. It is, of course, mockery of corporate sponsorship of art by taking it to the extreme. Corporations sponsor art in order to cast a \u201cbrand halo\u201d upon themselves so that you mentally associate them with something creative or cool. It\u2019s an abstracted action that attempts to cause you to think of the brand favorably by situating a home in your subconscious that makes you want to buy this product and choose it over a competitor. Because it has been subconsciously ensconced in your psyche connected to some other work that you have good feelings about. Well, I can\u2019t be sure, obviously, but I think there is product placement for Coca-Cola in The Magician King . Either that, or (and I don\u2019t know which is worse) Lev Grossman has such fondness for Coca-Cola that he is oblivious to the fact that he is uncritically placing it in the book in a positive light. This is something I have strong feelings about. Using brands in a book is tricky. I think we all know (just from the cultural zeitgeist around it) that American Psycho is packed with brands as a way to satirize 80s decadent culture and to represent the serial-killer main character as the embodiment of the heartless corporate/capitalist system within which he lived. I don\u2019t need to read it to agree with the metaphor. Ellis intentionally chose to make the main character obsessed with certain brands. Choosing to include brands is in many ways a political choice. Because it can be avoided if you are careful. In the case of The Magican King , Grossman could have had his character yearn for a cola. Or a soda. Or a black coffee. Or anything. But he chose to have Quentin thrill to have a Coke when he comes back from Fillory to Earth. And then later when Quentin goes back to Fillory, Grossman reiterates from a close third person perspective, \u201cAt least he\u2019d gotten to drink a Coke.\u201d Two uncritical references to Coke that would make a brand manager smile; I smell product placement, and it stinks.** Will I read the third book in the series? Yes, I will. So call this an awkward product endorsement. *I\u2019m not going to reiterate the basic premise of this novel, but if you want a brief primer, take a read of my review of The Magicians . **oh, and oddly, I found a typo in this book and two in the previous one. This one was on page 351 \"canot\" instead of \"cannot.\" ...more", "Title": "The Magician King"},
