{"Comments": "It's me,<---M> not you</---M>, I want to apologize to <---A>Margaret Atwood</---A>. One of my all-time favorite authors, who I consider one of my oldest and best friends, although we've never met. I have fallen out of love with her. I confess to not having finished the book. This is unheard of, like not having a second slice of pizza. I won't go as far as to say there is a sense of stagnation in the stories. Perhaps she has all too successfully evoked the ennui of average life. Attempting a committed and thorough read, I It's me, not you, I want to apologize to Margaret Atwood. One of my all-time favorite authors, who I consider one of my oldest and best friends, although we've never met. I have fallen out of love with her. I confess to not having finished the book. This is unheard of, like not having a second slice of pizza. I won't go as far as to say there is a sense of stagnation in the stories. Perhaps she has all too successfully evoked the ennui of average life. Attempting a committed and thorough read, I suffered the heart palpitations that the humdrum of day after day sometimes (often) does to me. Here we are again, day after day, with the traffic lights, and digestion, and voices talking talking talking and rarely getting to an important point, and then it is another day all over again. Moral Disorder was like listening to someone you love tell incredibly detailed stories, but not be able to get to the point in a multi-climactic way through the course of a page (that one expects from M.A.), let alone in the course of a short story or a chapter.<---F> So, disappointing</---F>. But, I'm sure it must be me, not her, this falling out of love business. If it is her, I am sorry to say she lost that loving feeling of multiple epiphanies neatly earned in her common language loving and detail accumulating way. She's just like mere mortals here, the rest of us, walking around, telling all the details as if they matter without -and here I finally arrive at the main point myself- really, really showing us why they do, striking a heart chord. Maybe in her next book, or if I revisit an old one, we will get our groove back, because now I am bereft and alone. I counted on her to always be the one, the person who named things in such a way that they resonated in my chest. ...more Margaret Atwood = writer I am most intimidated yet inspired by. These short stories form a semi-autobiographical sketch about a woman, Nell, from childhood through into her 60's, but are not in chronological order. The stories focus on her relationships with her parents, husband, sister, husband's ex-wife, and more. It's like getting a box of really cool photographs of someone you don't know, & their family, & you're trying to piece together their story from the photos & figure out w Margaret Atwood = writer I am most intimidated yet inspired by. These short stories form a semi-autobiographical sketch about a woman, Nell, from childhood through into her 60's, but are not in chronological order. The stories focus on her relationships with her parents, husband, sister, husband's ex-wife, and more. It's like getting a box of really cool photographs of someone you don't know, & their family, & you're trying to piece together their story from the photos & figure out which order they go in! Only better, because by the end of the book, you can see the big picture - maybe it's more like a jigsaw. Beautifully written & as always, insightful, fresh yet filled with \"yes, I've felt just like that!\" moments. ...more I noticed some reveiws are not so favorable for this book. As an avid Atwoodian, I was struck by the similar themes running through this collection of vignettes about girlhood and growing up, childhood perception, adulthood reflection, memory and aging that appear in her earlier work (Cat's Eye, Edible Woman, Wilderness Tips) because it seems like a return to previous ideas but from a different vantage point informed by the deaths of family members and one's own aging. At times the stories seem a I noticed some reveiws are not so favorable for this book. As an avid Atwoodian, I was struck by the similar themes running through this collection of vignettes about girlhood and growing up, childhood perception, adulthood reflection, memory and aging that appear in her earlier work (Cat's Eye, Edible Woman, Wilderness Tips) because it seems like a return to previous ideas but from a different vantage point informed by the deaths of family members and one's own aging. At times the stories seem autobiographical in tone and then just as easily distance the reader from the characters through shifts in voice. The effect is to draw out Nell, the protagonist, more fully than might be possible if Atwood stuck to first or third person narrative. We see Nell's strengths and her fears more evenly, less clouded by a singular perspective. We are also able to move to radically disparate moments in her life without feeling too much dislocation, but I still had the sense of the vast amounts of time that separated the episodes. I felt like I sort of rollercoastered through life with this woman over the day or so it took me to read the book. It's a great one for a vacation weekend, especially if you are going to the mountains to stay in a farmhouse. ...more Does anyone write crisper, cleaner English than Margaret Atwood? A few hundred of her sentences per day might help all of us write better. So, on the level of language, no complaints! In other ways, though, this is an uneven collection. It begins brilliantly and ends well, but the middle sections about the narrator and her life with Tig in the countryside just did not engage me. The problem may arise in part from the somewhat ambiguous nature of this book. Is it a collection of short stories or Does anyone write crisper, cleaner English than Margaret Atwood? A few hundred of her sentences per day might help all of us write better. So, on the level of language, no complaints! In other ways, though, this is an uneven collection. It begins brilliantly and ends well, but the middle sections about the narrator and her life with Tig in the countryside just did not engage me. The problem may arise in part from the somewhat ambiguous nature of this book. Is it a collection of short stories or a novel? I read it as the latter until the two last pieces, both about declining parents gradually becoming \"stories,\" which are detached from the earlier pieces. I know the novel has taken on new forms. I can accept that but somehow \"Moral Disorder\" seemed to shift from one thing to something else two-thirds of the way through. Nevertheless, several of these chapters are brilliant. \"The Headless Horseman\" is a good evocation of childhood, as well moving masterfully between past and present. And \"My Last Duchess\" is a wonderful and very funny account of two types of readers and the unbridgeable gap between them. Any \"literary\" type who has ever been involved with a strict rationalist will find something familiar in this piece. Finally, I just read a review of Atwood's new nonfiction work \"Payback\" and have decided that amazon.com will soon reap the benefit from yet another purchase. ...more While reading Margaret Atwood\u2019s Moral Disorder I kept remembering William Burroughs\u2019s wish that his Naked Lunch be read in any order and direction. In his case, it was an attempt to challenge the narrative by denying chronology \u2013 no event could pretend to have happened before or after another. There is a similar attempt towards the dissolution of the novel In Margaret Atwood\u2019s book, for every \u201cchapter\u201d can also be read independently, but in this case more as a suggestion that life is a series of While reading Margaret Atwood\u2019s Moral Disorder I kept remembering William Burroughs\u2019s wish that his Naked Lunch be read in any order and direction. In his case, it was an attempt to challenge the narrative by denying chronology \u2013 no event could pretend to have happened before or after another. There is a similar attempt towards the dissolution of the novel In Margaret Atwood\u2019s book, for every \u201cchapter\u201d can also be read independently, but in this case more as a suggestion that life is a series of framed events, a shot of individual scenes, than as an attempt to tame time. The narrative technique is once again the framed story, encapsulating this time other framed stories. Indeed, every one of the eleven stories is a window to another one (sometimes with a window of its own), in a skilful game of outer and inner stories mirroring themselves in an infinite mise en ab\u00eeme to reveal the main theme of the book, the eternal recurrence, the curse and the salvation of mankind during the tragedies of history and personal life. In the first one, Bad News , the narrator imagines herself and her husband in a distant past however not so different from her present, given that the same indistinct danger lurked behind bad news (be it the modern killing of a political leader, or the ancient imminence of a barbarian invasion). The parallelism serves to prove that there is nothing new under the sun since humanity has always found a way of auto preservation \u2013 either in next generations\u2019 obstinate resumption of the ancestors, or in conservation of the past in the artistic collective memory. Even if they manage to cross the Rhine, even if they aren\u2019t slain in thousands, even if the river fails to run red with their blood, they won\u2019t get here for a long time. Not in our lifetime, perhaps. Glanum is in no danger, not yet. Thus the theme of eternal return subtly generates another one (in a never-ending parallelism) \u2013 the literature as a mise en ab\u00eeme of the real life. We are fiction, or become fiction, we imitate or reject what we\u2019ve read, we complete or compensate the lack of information about people by imagining their destinies: All that anxiety and anger, those dubious good intentions, those tangled lives, that blood. I can tell about it or I can bury it. In the end, we\u2019ll all become stories. Or else we\u2019ll become entities. Maybe it\u2019s the same. Moreover, by choosing to tell, the artist within us often chooses to improve. To transform life into art. That permanent alternation between the outer and the inner stories in Moral Disorder is used to confront the character with an ideal or a feared image: the perfectly groomed servant to counteract the eleven-year-old girl\u2019s feeling of overwhelming responsibility ( The Art of Cooking and Serving ); the Halloween head to conceal inner monsters ( The Headless Horseman ); Robert Browning\u2019s duke to fight moral weakness ( My Last Duchess ); the story of the unpredictable mare to tame the spirit without breaking it ( The White Horse ) etc. Finally, by choosing to tell, the artist often chooses to fill in the blanks. To create a story from a name, a piece of information, a picture: I want them to step forward, out of the ranks of the extras. I want them to have speaking parts. I want them to shine. And whenever life steps into fiction it finds its reason: to create a pattern for life. The eternal recurrence through revolving doors: Now we\u2019re at the door. The persistence of material objects is becoming an amazement to me. It\u2019s the same door \u2013 the one I used to go in through, out through, year after year, in my daily clothing or in various outfits and disguises, not thinking at all that I would one day be standing in front of this very same door with my grey-haired little sister. But all doors used regularly are doors to the afterlife. ...more I chose to read Moral Disorder for my next Atwood book because it was a book of short stories. I thought it would be a good decision as it would be easy to read during my sporadic down time. I will not go so far as to say that Atwood deceived me, however after the third story I realized how truly misinformed I had been. The picturesque narrative of a woman\u2019s life bounds along seamlessly with ever-changing perspective from first to third person views and makes the book impossible to put down. \u201cBad I chose to read Moral Disorder for my next Atwood book because it was a book of short stories. I thought it would be a good decision as it would be easy to read during my sporadic down time. I will not go so far as to say that Atwood deceived me, however after the third story I realized how truly misinformed I had been. The picturesque narrative of a woman\u2019s life bounds along seamlessly with ever-changing perspective from first to third person views and makes the book impossible to put down. \u201cBad News\u201d is the story of a woman and her husband in their autumn years. As the protagonist (Nell) reflects upon the physical and mental constraints of her age she hints at the layout of the book. She muses that tenses define their lives. \u201cPast tense, back then; future tense, not yet. We live in the small window between them, the space we\u2019ve only recently come to think of as still, and really it\u2019s no smaller than anyone else\u2019s window.\u201d The second vignette transports the woman to the summer of her 11th year where she is stoically awaiting the birth of her sibling. She has taken on the role of caregiver for her mother during her fragile state. She mourns for her own loss of childhood with the responsibility of the new brother or sister that will soon join the family. Atwood\u2019s skill at character development excels as she begins the third story \u201cThe Headless Horseman\u201d. Written two years after her sister is born it is a \u201cwindow\u201d into how the sibling relationship will evolve. The elder sister reveals that the younger is anxious about everything in her world, exhibits odd behaviors, and is prone to unprovoked breakdowns. \u201cHer approach to life was tentative.\u201d The family must modify their way of life to accommodate this sensitive child. As the stories leapfrog from one decade to the next and back the relationship of the sisters becomes more complicated and intriguing. Nell builds her own family and becomes entangled in a non-traditional relationship where she must also contend with the emotional demands of her sister and self-imposed estrangement from her parents. Each story is a change of tense and tone into which the reader builds a deep understanding of Nell and her strengths and weaknesses. Such an intimate knowledge of a character allows for a level of sympathy that is truly rare; and as Nell\u2019s life progresses it is not the plot of the story that is as poignant as the rationale behind her choices and resulting consequences. Although there is no chronological continuity to the arrangement of the stories one is left with the impression of putting together a puzzle resulting in a sense of accomplishment that accompanies the completion of the book. ...more This is described as a collection of short stories but it is actually a series of portraits of one person. So although you could, you wouldn\u2019t really want to read them out of order. They chronicle the life of Nell (though we don\u2019t know her name for the first part of the book as it\u2019s written in the first person), with Atwood\u2019s usual sharp observations and dry wit. Nell was born in the thirties and grew up well before the social changes of the sixties, so is a bit uncomfortable with them. In one ea This is described as a collection of short stories but it is actually a series of portraits of one person. So although you could, you wouldn\u2019t really want to read them out of order. They chronicle the life of Nell (though we don\u2019t know her name for the first part of the book as it\u2019s written in the first person), with Atwood\u2019s usual sharp observations and dry wit. Nell was born in the thirties and grew up well before the social changes of the sixties, so is a bit uncomfortable with them. In one early chapter she is living alone in Vancouver: \u201cAt the time I\u2019d set out, all women were expected to get married ... but by the end of this period \u2013 it was only eight years, not so long after all \u2013 a wave had swept through, changing the landscape completely. ... Sexual jealousy was like using the wrong fork, marriage was a joke, and those already married found their once-solid unions crumbling like defective stucco. You were supposed to hang loose, to collect experiences, to be a rolling stone. Isn\u2019t that what I\u2019d been doing, years before the widespread advent of facial hair and roach clips? But I felt myself too old, or possibly too solemn, for the love beads and pothead crowd. They wanted to live in the moment, but like frogs, not like wolves ... But I was raised in the age of strenuousness. Relaxation bored me\u201d She has a rather fractious relationship with her parents, feeling their critical \u201cthought rays\u201d halfway across the country. She also has a rather fragile younger sister Lizzie. \u201cShe takes a pill every day, for a chemical imbalance she was born with. That was it, all along. That was what made the bad times for her. Not my monstrousness at all. I believe that, most of the time.\u201d In the second half of the book, she moves in with Tig, a separated father of two boys with a complicated relationship with his ex, Oona, who initially was Nell\u2019s friend and mentor in the publishing business. Moral Disorder is the defining chapter, describing her increasingly complex and compromised life on the small decrepit farm they buy; it\u2019s one of my favourites and there really isn't space here to add all the quotes or excerpts I wanted to. These people together with Lillie, a real estate agent they use frequently, form the core of all the stories. One or two (eg The Labrador Fiasco ) don\u2019t quite fit, they were probably written at a different time, but you can still read them as if the characters were the same. It is lovely, tender, incisive and witty writing. Atwood always keeps things tight and focussed, and in this case, maybe too much; because I really wish the book had been longer. ...more This was my first Atwood ever. I'm surprised how much I like this book. It's a collection of quite wonderful short stories which all belong together and tell episodes from the life of Nell. Every story has a different atmosphere. I enjoyed her writing so much that after finishing the last story I started again with the first one just to see wether the reading would feel different with having in mind the other stories. Highly recommended. Published in 2006, the stories in Moral Disorder must be Margaret Atwood's fictional autobiography of her childhood. I loved this book when I realized that this recollection of experiences was her take on that part of her life. Atwood these days can seem very remote, a distant star, yet these stories take the reader into the heart and, even more exciting, the mind and insights of a bright, bright child. Her character, unnamed in the intimate first-person narratives, writes at the end of the capt Published in 2006, the stories in Moral Disorder must be Margaret Atwood's fictional autobiography of her childhood. I loved this book when I realized that this recollection of experiences was her take on that part of her life. Atwood these days can seem very remote, a distant star, yet these stories take the reader into the heart and, even more exciting, the mind and insights of a bright, bright child. Her character, unnamed in the intimate first-person narratives, writes at the end of the captivating highschool-age story \"My Last Duchess\" (dissection of a poem by Robert Browning): \"Very soon I would a last-year's student. I would be gone from Miss Bessie's world, and she would be gone from mine. Both of us would be in the past, both of us over and done with \u2014 me from her point of view, her from mine. Sitting at my present-day desk there would be another, younger student who would be poked and prodded and herded relentlessly through the prescribed texts, as I had been. The first line of a poem is very important, class, Miss Bessie would say. It sets the tone. Let us proceed. \"Meanwhile, I myself, would be inside the dark tunnel. I'd be going on. I'd be finding things out. I'd be all on my own.\" The dialogue between the narrative and her boyfriend, Bill is priceless, as they argue about the poem. They have decided that the Count bumped her off. \"I was not defending him,\" I said. \"Yeah. You were. She was a nice normal girl with a sick jerk for a husband, and you seem to think it was her own fault.\" I hadn't said that, but it was partly true. ...\" After the childhood stories, the character Nell appears to tell the young adult stories, the married stories, the death of father and mother. I know just enough about Atwood's upbringing -- her father, the entymologist -- to think that \"Boys in the Lab\" and \"The Labrador Fiasco\" are set in territory that Atwood knew. The stories of the old people in Nell's life are tender and ring so true they hurt. At the end of the story \"The Entities\", Atwood writes: \"But what else could I do with all that? thinks Nell, wending her way back to her own house. All that anxiety and anger, those dubious intentions, those tangled lives, that blood. I can tell about it or I can bury it. In the end, we'll all become stories. Or else we'll become entities. Maybe it's the same.\" What a writer. ...more Mi primer encuentro con esta autora no estuvo mal. Si bien no fue para cinco estrellas, un 3.5 definir\u00eda mejor este libro tan peculiar que contiene esbozos de temas muy interesantes de g\u00e9nero e historias que pueden arrancar l\u00e1grimas. El libro cuenta la vida de Nell y la divide en relatos que abren y cierran un episodio. Trazan un eje entre ellos y permiten saltos temporales y espaciales, que constituyen una especie de biograf\u00eda no-cronol\u00f3gica del personaje. Nell es una mujer que atraviesa las et Mi primer encuentro con esta autora no estuvo mal. Si bien no fue para cinco estrellas, un 3.5 definir\u00eda mejor este libro tan peculiar que contiene esbozos de temas muy interesantes de g\u00e9nero e historias que pueden arrancar l\u00e1grimas. El libro cuenta la vida de Nell y la divide en relatos que abren y cierran un episodio. Trazan un eje entre ellos y permiten saltos temporales y espaciales, que constituyen una especie de biograf\u00eda no-cronol\u00f3gica del personaje. Nell es una mujer que atraviesa las etapas de su vida en el siglo XX y retrata, mediante sus experiencias, a los dem\u00e1s personajes que la rodean. Desorden moral se trata de sucesos que parecen nimiedades o excusas para escribir algo, pero que en realidad dicen mucho cuando el mensaje est\u00e1 bien transmitido. A simple vista, Atwood da clases de c\u00f3mo delinear personajes instant\u00e1neamente y darles vida con un empuj\u00f3n m\u00ednimo. La primera persona no se desaprovecha: Nell es una narradora que capta el inter\u00e9s del lector sin problemas y que cuenta lo justo y necesario, sin demasiada \u201cdecoraci\u00f3n\u201d. Sin embargo, hay cap\u00edtulos y pasajes bell\u00edsimos con los cuales m\u00e1s de una (hablo especialmente de lectoras pero no excluyo a nadie) puede sentirse identificada, como \u201cMi \u00faltima duquesa\u201d. Los primeros cap\u00edtulos me gustaron mucho, pero en cierto momento la novela gira hacia un lugar inc\u00f3modo. Cambia de narrador (tranquilos, no hay spoiler en esto) y pierde su atractivo. Particularmente le echo la culpa a una elecci\u00f3n de vida que hace Nell, pero no har\u00e9 ning\u00fan comentario al respecto porque deber\u00eda detallar algunas cosas y caer en juicios de valor muy personales que no vienen al caso. S\u00ed puedo decir que creo que algunos personajes y/o temas se podr\u00edan haber desarrollado m\u00e1s para no ser s\u00f3lo agregados o generadores de conflictos. Otro punto a favor se lo lleva la menci\u00f3n a varias obras literarias (l\u00e1stima que una sea spoiler) y el planteo de preguntas que me hice varias veces y no quise responder. Los \u00faltimos cap\u00edtulos lograron recuperar mi atenci\u00f3n despu\u00e9s del estancamiento en la mitad. Fueron muy bonitos y tristes a la vez, a tal punto que tuve que detener la lectura en reiteradas ocasiones. Desorden moral no se convirti\u00f3 en uno de mis libros favoritos, pero estoy segura de que todav\u00eda no le\u00ed lo mejor de Margaret Atwood. Si es capaz de darle una vida entera a una protagonista en pocas p\u00e1ginas, imagino lo que puede llegar a hacer con m\u00e1s espacio. ...more Margaret Atwood is of course, as we all know, awesome sauce. This was definitely a work in a different vein than her science fiction stuff, but it has the same dark, menacing tone that she does so well. You can feel her subconscious twisting these stories out, which are unsettlingly mundane. The book reminded me about the vague, intuitive terror of adulthood and the passing of time that I feel the edge of almost all the time these days. Here's a quote: \"I would have to go into the tunnel whether Margaret Atwood is of course, as we all know, awesome sauce. This was definitely a work in a different vein than her science fiction stuff, but it has the same dark, menacing tone that she does so well. You can feel her subconscious twisting these stories out, which are unsettlingly mundane. The book reminded me about the vague, intuitive terror of adulthood and the passing of time that I feel the edge of almost all the time these days. Here's a quote: \"I would have to go into the tunnel whether I wanted to or not - the tunnel was the road of going on, and there was more of the road on the other side of it - but the entrance was where [my teacher] had to stop. Inside the tunnel was what I was meant to learn\" Here's another quote: \"That image - of a little child being suffocated, or almost suffocated, by others who thought the whole thing was a game - melded with the furtive nocturnal slugs, and my solitary pacing and singing, and the separate, claustrophobic stairway, and the charmless abstract painting, and the gold-framed mirror, and the slithery green satin bedspread, and became inseperable from them. It wasn't a cheerful composite. As a memory, it is more like a fog bank than a sunlit meadow. Yet I think of that period as having been a happy time in my life. Happy is the wrong word. Important.\" ...more Atwood has a beautiful way of describing life and its experiences so accurately. On the first page she writes, \"I think of bad news as a huge bird, with the wings of a crow and the face of my Grade Four school teacher, sparse bun, rancid teeth, wrinkly frown, pursed mouth and all, sailing around the world under cover of darkness pleased to be the bearer of ill tidings, carrying a basket of rotten eggs, and knowing- as the sun comes up- exactly where to drop them. On me, for one.\" I am amazed th Atwood has a beautiful way of describing life and its experiences so accurately. On the first page she writes, \"I think of bad news as a huge bird, with the wings of a crow and the face of my Grade Four school teacher, sparse bun, rancid teeth, wrinkly frown, pursed mouth and all, sailing around the world under cover of darkness pleased to be the bearer of ill tidings, carrying a basket of rotten eggs, and knowing- as the sun comes up- exactly where to drop them. On me, for one.\" I am amazed that she can make connections to such distant ideas in her writing while keeping a logical flow. I wanted to read this book because I am familiar with Atwood's poetry, but didn't enjoy this book as much as I thought I would. It depicts the life of Nell through short stories- childhood through adulthood. I loved the first half of the book, (childhood- young adulthood) but wasn't too interested in the second half of Nell's life. If you want to read a great book about a girl growing up, I suggest A Tree Grows in Brooklyn ...more FU GR app for losing my review. It was one of the best reviews I've ever written and I'm too lazy (and forgetful) to recreate it. So I guess, also, FU me for being lazy and forgetful. Anyway, this book is a great representative of Margaret Atwood's writing. She is the best best writer of the human psyche as I've experienced it. I was saying how I feel sorry for her characters for never ending up happy, but even still, I love how she can express a human in the most beautiful complicated labyrinth FU GR app for losing my review. It was one of the best reviews I've ever written and I'm too lazy (and forgetful) to recreate it. So I guess, also, FU me for being lazy and forgetful. Anyway, this book is a great representative of Margaret Atwood's writing. She is the best best writer of the human psyche as I've experienced it. I was saying how I feel sorry for her characters for never ending up happy, but even still, I love how she can express a human in the most beautiful complicated labyrinths that we all truly are. Holy shit, she is so smart. She will kill you with this next-to-last chapter, too. Just try not to die, go ahead. ...more I did not like these stories much. They are too disjointed for me to follow easily but the biggest annoyance for me was the character of Nell. She was just one of those creations that drove me crazy. Her attitudes to life and other people were frustrating for me, I did actually spend a bit of time yelling at a fictional person I got so irked. I\u2019m not sure how to react this. This shouldn\u2019t happen. Moral Disorder is part of a literary movement that\u2019s close to me. Stories about the daily lives of people grab me like no other. I can forgive many flaws \u2013 lack of characters, lack of narrative structure \u2013 if the events are vivid enough. Something about this literature is so lifelike. The grandmaster, Raymond Carver, didn\u2019t have in-depth psychology and his stories rarely concludd. Yet his prose felt so intimate. He made you feel like you\u2019re a I\u2019m not sure how to react this. This shouldn\u2019t happen. Moral Disorder is part of a literary movement that\u2019s close to me. Stories about the daily lives of people grab me like no other. I can forgive many flaws \u2013 lack of characters, lack of narrative structure \u2013 if the events are vivid enough. Something about this literature is so lifelike. The grandmaster, Raymond Carver, didn\u2019t have in-depth psychology and his stories rarely concludd. Yet his prose felt so intimate. He made you feel like you\u2019re attached at the hip to these characters. I always held that the best authors have good prose by default. They can write anything and it will be a pleasure to read. Atwood belongs to that line of authors, but that\u2019s pure skill. This is why Moral Disorder isn\u2019t as good as a random Raymond Carver story, although it\u2019s close. Her prose is easy to read, focused and hardly rambles. She lacks a sense of style, though. Give her a good story \u2013 Alias Grace \u2013 and she tells it masterfully. When the prose needs to do more than just relay the events she\u2019s in trouble. It\u2019s no surprise, then, that the best stories are the most eventful. The stories at the farm, especially the one involving butchering animals are the most fun. The events are interesting by themselves. Atwood is creative enough to imagine weird happenings with farm animals. All she has to do is relay them with her precise prose and you get the title story \u2013 a strong candidate for one of Atwood\u2019s best pieces of writing. Other great stories include The Headless Horseman and My Last Duchess. In these stories Atwood trumps Carver. Carver was a master of prose, but he was less good at imagining events. His prose breathed life into the mundane, but whenever he stretched himself he felt clumsy (That story about a headache always felt off). Atwood has a brimming imagination. Her events are never mundane. Rather, she mines the oddness of life \u2013 the last Halloween, a school project involving analyzing a poem. There\u2019s something so lifelike in the teenagers\u2019 conversation about the poem. The teenager\u2019s complaint about the uselessness of it is the sort of thing I heard from my friends, too. Atwood recognizes the literary retarded without shaming them. These stories also showcase Atwood\u2019s main flaw, and that is characters. A common problem in realistic fiction is the removal of weirdness, but reality is weird. Atwood understands reality is full of weird events, but she forgets people are weird, too. The young sister is one of the few characters that are actually characters. Most of the time, what drives the characters is so basic it\u2019s not important. The stories are meant to be inter-connected. In order to connect these stories, though, we need to recognize that th characters appear again and again. It\u2019s only seeing the name of Tig a few times that made me notice this. Until then, it felt like all characters were archetypical Everymen. Atwood\u2019s conflicts are believable, but not insightful. She has enough imagination to create a marriage that\u2019s on a slow, peaceful divorce that gets uglier as it goes on. She doesn\u2019t have the psychological insight to bring this relationship to life. The effort is there \u2013 Oona is almost a living, breathing character but not really. Instead of being something unique, she\u2019s just a successful woman that hides a lot of secrets and can\u2019t make it on her own. Her character sketches are too generalized and not specific. The closest she comes to making a unique character is in Nell\u2019s mom. The last story gives us some cues to who she is \u2013 her refusal to hear stories without happy endings, for example. Too bad that story also tries to expand on sideline characters with a sort of self-awareness that\u2019s clever, but in the end doesn\u2019t lead to much. The worst offender is the main character. I\u2019m a writer myself and I can somehow forgive that. Why is writing main characters so difficult? Why can we imagine odd sideline characters with quirks, yet our main characters always end up as observers? On the Headless Horseman, she brings the main character to life with her attitude towards youth, Halloween and all that stuff. In that story our protagonist reacts and makes decisions. In all the rest, she mostly observes. Since her role in these story is mostly active \u2013 she\u2019s the character that connects these stories \u2013 this observant behavior takes the life out of the stories. Nell is given a role that\u2019s not suited her. The stories are about her, her experience with Tig and at the farm. If these stories were an assortment of tales about weird people Nell meets, then that flaw wouldn\u2019t be so offensive. Even then, though, we\u2019d need something about Nell. She\u2019d need to connect all these tales. Moral Disorder is, however, about her but sadly she\u2019s not very interesting. Atwood can imagine odd happenings, but not main characters. Overall though, this is still worth picking up. Atwood is still excellent at relaying events in plain language. If she can\u2019t mine life out of hr characters, at least the set-pieces are memorable enough. Atwood\u2019s prose is also good enough on its own. It doesn\u2019t have wide appeal, but if you enjoyed Atwood before or you like dirty, hard realism there\u2019s plenty to enjoy here. At worst, read the title story or The Headless Horseman. 3 butchered farm animals out of 5 Also posted in my blog: https://brainweapons.wordpress.com/20... ...more During our recent trip to Europe, I thought about books a lot. Margaret Atwood's short story collection Moral Disorder was one that kept coming to mind after a day spent in the 1800 year old Roman ruins at Con\u00ednbriga, Portugal. These stories are about the best things Atwood has written in a couple of decades, in my opinion. She opens herself up as she has rarely, writing about people who are very much like herself and her family. At first the reader may think the stories are unrelated, but each During our recent trip to Europe, I thought about books a lot. Margaret Atwood's short story collection Moral Disorder was one that kept coming to mind after a day spent in the 1800 year old Roman ruins at Con\u00ednbriga, Portugal. These stories are about the best things Atwood has written in a couple of decades, in my opinion. She opens herself up as she has rarely, writing about people who are very much like herself and her family. At first the reader may think the stories are unrelated, but each one throws light on some rather important concerns: what will become of the world we live in? How to love? Is there a connection between the concrete everyday world and something that transcends time and space? This last lies at the center of the first story \"The Bad News.\" An aging couple, Nell and Tig, struggle to deal with the bad news that awaits them every day in early Twenty-first Century newspaper headlines. But Nell finds herself slipping into another time and place when the news was equally bad, Southern France in the Third Century C.E. The barbarians are outside the gates, Romans like this other Nell have reason to be afraid. The question Atwood poses is: should we prepare for the end of the world as we know it, too? Con\u00ednbriga in central Portugal is very much like Glanum, the French ruined town that starts Nell's musings. A thriving place for a couple of hundred years at the crossroads of Roman thoroughfares on the Iberian peninsula, its people retrenched in the Third Century apparently out of fear for the advancing Barbarians. They effectively abandoned part of the town, tearing houses down and building a defensive wall five meters high inside of which they hung on for a couple of more centuries. The extent of the town was forgotten until the late 1920s when a Portuguese archeologist began excavation of the site. Since then off a good portion of the town has been uncovered. The mosaics are extraordinary, and the House of Fountains, one of the houses left outside the wall, a dream of a Roman villa (see photo.) Visiting ruins like this (or the medieval part of nearby Coimbra) invites speculation who lived there and what their lives were like. Just as Atwood's collection suggests connections between incidents and people, so wandering through the vestiges of the past summons up reflections about human nature, strife and survival. ...more Margaret Atwood has a clever way of moving through the decades in this collection of related stories. The recurring main character, Nell, is a little girl anxious about the impending birth of a sibling in the 30s, a teenager just realizing that she's miles ahead of her boyfriend in intelligence and maturity in the 50s, a slightly rootless young woman in the 90s. Somehow this all works with Atwood's smooth handling, and as we read of the mostly trivial trials and tribulations that Nell faces, we Margaret Atwood has a clever way of moving through the decades in this collection of related stories. The recurring main character, Nell, is a little girl anxious about the impending birth of a sibling in the 30s, a teenager just realizing that she's miles ahead of her boyfriend in intelligence and maturity in the 50s, a slightly rootless young woman in the 90s. Somehow this all works with Atwood's smooth handling, and as we read of the mostly trivial trials and tribulations that Nell faces, we are by turns amused, aggravated, worried, or saddened. Nell is a bit of a doormat, truth be told, and Atwood imparts this aspect of Nell's personality very nicely, especially in one story, \"White Horse,\" wherein a city friend boards her bargain-basement nag of a horse (named Gladys) on Nell's farm at Nell's expense and inconvenience. Even Gladys is able to take advantage of Nell. Atwood's skill in this collection is much like her deftness with her novels' well developed characters, generous dashes of social commentary, a slightly sardonic tone, and that ability to lend a tinge of dystopia to the world in which her stories take place. (Barbara L., Reader's Services) ...more This book should have been subtitled: \"Sh!t happens.\" A collection of short stories about a woman from childhood to old age, this book touches into Nell's life at odd, disjointed moments, usually as she is going through the worst periods of her life. Dealing with fear, pain, anxiety, depression, sickness, we miss out on all the good moments of falling in love and joy. Without that connective tissue, it's hard to care what happens to her. Which is not to say that it is without merit. Atwood is a di This book should have been subtitled: \"Sh!t happens.\" A collection of short stories about a woman from childhood to old age, this book touches into Nell's life at odd, disjointed moments, usually as she is going through the worst periods of her life. Dealing with fear, pain, anxiety, depression, sickness, we miss out on all the good moments of falling in love and joy. Without that connective tissue, it's hard to care what happens to her. Which is not to say that it is without merit. Atwood is a distinguished writer, and her writing is strong and in many places, filled with ironic and horrifying humor. And one story, about her as a teenager, dissecting a poem and applying her conclusions to her own life, to predict the nontraditional path she's going to follow, was an amazing read. So, take this one as a bit of a hit and miss. ...more There is no denying that Margaret Atwood is a fine writer. \"Moral Disorder\" is funny and touching and it provides an insight into domestic family life in all its horrors. As in a photograph album, time is measured in sharp, clearly observed moments. She entices readers to flip through the photo album of a Canadian woman who closely resembles herself. The writer takes the reader along on an emotional journey through loneliness, love, loss and old age. The secret resentments and alignments--diffic There is no denying that Margaret Atwood is a fine writer. \"Moral Disorder\" is funny and touching and it provides an insight into domestic family life in all its horrors. As in a photograph album, time is measured in sharp, clearly observed moments. She entices readers to flip through the photo album of a Canadian woman who closely resembles herself. The writer takes the reader along on an emotional journey through loneliness, love, loss and old age. The secret resentments and alignments--difficult siblings, unfair parents, hopeless yearnings and rage--are funny to read about but hellish to experience. Her carefully calibrated sentences are created to hook readers and a vivid memoir-like writing style makes these look so easy and in this book, she does what she does best: dissect the human heart with all its myriad forms. ...more What a wonderful read! If you haven't noticed, I've been on a bit of an Atwood kick lately, and while this one is very different than her dystopian novels I've been reading, I absolutely LOVE getting lost in the lush prose word forests of such an incredible mind. This short story collection features snippets of one woman's life told in marvelous details that skip across time, just like memories do. However, they also fit together and tell a larger story: one of being incredibly human, full of los What a wonderful read! If you haven't noticed, I've been on a bit of an Atwood kick lately, and while this one is very different than her dystopian novels I've been reading, I absolutely LOVE getting lost in the lush prose word forests of such an incredible mind. This short story collection features snippets of one woman's life told in marvelous details that skip across time, just like memories do. However, they also fit together and tell a larger story: one of being incredibly human, full of loss, doubts, happiness, and transformation. An incredible short story collection that I am happy to have read and will probably revisit from time to time in the future. ...more This is the first non-dystopia I read from Margaret Atwood, and I loved it. A collection of short stories that tell a whole story with Atwood's trademark incision into the nature of human conflict. Descriptions cut to the chase and build onto the story's mood. Each story stands poignantly alone, and yet at the end of each you're so glad there's more coming--except at the last one, which made me turn back and reread the whole thing again. I suspect I'll be doing that more often. this book was amazing. i adored the way this author's voice expanded the writing style we are usually faced in family and life based novels. she gave it something amazing as she approached it with her specific tone. i enjoyed this book so much and i can't wait to dive more into this attwood way of looking and feeling I listened to these short stories in the car after dropping my youngest daughter off at college. It was a perfect match for my emotional mother heart. These are family stories, I believe they must be autobiographical. My favorite was about the elderly realtor. Themes: marriage, sisters, attempts at farming. Best (or critically important to the text) Quotes: \"They always want to kill the leaders. With the best of intentions, or so they claim. The leaders have the best of intentions as well. The leaders stand in the spotlight, the killers aim from the dark; it\u2019s easy to score.\" \"Once, this might have been an argument. Now it\u2019s a pastime, like gin rummy.\" \"eerie politeness\" \"On the other hand, it\u2019s his general view that Rome is going to hell in a handcart, and I\u2019ve noticed that most retired men feel like Best (or critically important to the text) Quotes: \"They always want to kill the leaders. With the best of intentions, or so they claim. The leaders have the best of intentions as well. The leaders stand in the spotlight, the killers aim from the dark; it\u2019s easy to score.\" \"Once, this might have been an argument. Now it\u2019s a pastime, like gin rummy.\" \"eerie politeness\" \"On the other hand, it\u2019s his general view that Rome is going to hell in a handcart, and I\u2019ve noticed that most retired men feel like that: the world simply cannot function minus their services. It\u2019s not that they feel useless; they feel unused.\" \"When I wasn\u2019t doing homework or chores or baby-tending I would lie on my bed with my head hanging over the edge, holding up a mirror to see what I looked like upside down.\" \"It didn\u2019t occur to me that if I\u2019d wanted my costume to be understood immediately I should have chosen something more obvious.\" \"The fairy child, the changeling who didn\u2019t follow the convenient patterns of other children, who sucked up its mother\u2019s energy in an uncanny and nocturnal manner\u2013this is a theme with more inherent interest to it than a hamster-transmitted thyroid disease.\" \"She was particularly apprehensive about doors, and about who might come through them.\" \"Once, I discovered it propped up on my sister\u2019s pillow, its neck wrapped in one of our mother\u2019s best linen dishtowels. Cookie fragments on dolls\u2019 plates were laid out around it, mixed with berries from the prickly-berry hedge, like offerings made to appease an idol. It was wearing a chaplet woven of carrot fronds and marigolds that my sister and Leonie had picked in the garden. The flowers were wilted, the garland was lopsided; the effect was astonishingly depraved, as if a debauched Roman emperor had arrived on the scene and had hacked off his own body in a maiden\u2019s chamber as the ultimate sexual thrill.\" \"\u201cYou\u2019ve had fun,\u201d I say. \u201cHaven\u2019t you? There\u2019s lots of things you like.\u201d \u201cThat was a while ago,\u201d she says. \u201cIt\u2019s not enough. I\u2019m tired of playing the game. This is the wrong place for me to be.\u201d She doesn\u2019t mean my house. She means her body. She means the planet Earth. I can see the same thing she\u2019s seeing: it\u2019s a cliff edge, it\u2019s a bridge with a steep drop, it\u2019s the end. That\u2019s what she\u2019s wants: The End. Like the end of a story.\" \"She takes a pill every day, for a chemical imbalance she was born with. That was it, all along. That was what made the bad times for her. Not my monstrousness at all. I believe that, most of the time.\" \"These girls were all similar. They were too trusting, they found themselves in the hands of the wrong men, they weren\u2019t up to things, they let themselves drift. They smiled too much. They were too eager to please. Then they got bumped off, one way or another. Nobody gave them any help. Why did we have to study these hapless, annoying, dumb-bunny girls? I wondered. Who chose the books and poems that would be on the curriculum? What use would they be in our future lives? What exactly were we supposed to be learning from them? Maybe Bill was right. Maybe the whole thing was a waste of time.\" \"They knew something we needed to know, but it was a complicated thing\u2013not so much a thing as a pattern, like the clues in a detective story once you started connecting them together. These women\u2013these teachers\u2013had no direct method of conveying this thing to us, not in a way that would make us listen, because it was too tangled, it was too oblique. It was hidden within the stories.\" \"I would welcome each new dislocation, unpack my few belongings with alacrity and even joy, then set out to explore the neighbourhood or district or city and learn its ways;\" \"It was a similar story with men. Each one was a possibility that quickly became an impossibility.\" \"I believed in thought rays. These rays were shooting out from my parents\u2019 craniums, directly into mine. It was like radio waves.\" \"My future would not be complete\u2013no, it would not be normal\u2013unless it contained window curtains like these, and everything that went with them.\" \"Why should being alone\u2013in and of itself\u2013be such a matter for derision? But it was. The alone\u2013the loners\u2013were not to be trusted. They were strange and twisted.\" \"the Noah\u2019s ark of coupledom\u2013in effect a glorified zoo, with locks on the bars and fodder dished out at set intervals\" \"They wanted to live in the moment, but like frogs, not like wolves. They wanted to sit in the sun and blink. But I was raised in the age of strenuousness. Relaxation bored me.\" \"The objects I chose were designed to hold something, but I didn\u2019t fill them up. They remained empty. They were little symbolic shrines to thirst. I knew they were worthless clutter, but they made it into the tin trunk whenever I packed up again.\" \"I did have a lover or two during that time\u2013temporary lovers, just borrowed\u2013\" \"I acted in acceptable ways. I smiled, nodded, made conversation, and so forth. I could do a good imitation of a competent young woman.\" \"To find yourself at an early age in a universe that had demonstrated such hostility would have a dampening effect. More than dampening: crushing.\" \"What if it\u2019s not in the past, this other place? What if it\u2019s still in the future? After all?\" \"Nell liked the songs of yearning, Tig liked the songs of regret.\" \"Nell liked to know the rules, whatever the game:\" \"As for social interactions, she had learned only the old rules, the ones in force up to the explosive moment\u2013it seemed like a moment\u2013when all games had changed at once and earlier structures had fallen apart and everyone had begun pretending that the very notion of rules was obsolete.\" \"had been something satisfying, though not enjoyable, about such scenes: after them Nell had frequently felt congratulations were in order, as if parts had been played as written and unspecified duties discharged.\" \"she could tell that he was annoyed nonetheless. She was making difficulties where none existed. She was overstepping a line. But where was the line? She couldn\u2019t see it.\" \"they had been what used to be known as well brought up\" \"So that\u2019s who I\u2019m supposed to be\" \"At the end of March, when the snow was mostly gone except in the shadows, and the buds were swelling, Nell finished her bedspread and arranged it on the single bed in her study. She was pleased with the way it had turned out. She called Tig in to admire it. \u201cDoes this mean you\u2019re here to stay?\u201d asked Tig, folding his long arms around her from behind. Nell didn\u2019t say anything, but she smiled. He wasn\u2019t so obtuse after all. In April, the boys brought up one of their cats because a farm needed a cat: they\u2019d seen some mice, or possibly rats, in the barn. The cat was a city cat. Not being used to travel, it growled and threw up in the car, and when they\u2019d reached the farm it leapt out before anyone could grab it and ran off into the bushes and wasn\u2019t seen for days. When it came back it was thinner and had burrs stuck all over its fur. It scooted under the bed in Nell\u2019s study and wouldn\u2019t come out. Evidently, however, it must have emerged at night and rolled around on Nell\u2019s knitted bedspread, to which it transferred most of the burrs. Nell picked away at them, but she could never get out all the little hooks and prickles.\" \"Nell didn\u2019t know what it was supposed to mean. She hadn\u2019t intended to say it. It had just come out of her mouth. She felt her lip trembling. This is ridiculous, she thought.\" \"Nell felt as if they were kidnapping the lamb\u2013tearing him away from home and family, holding him for ransom, except that there wouldn\u2019t be any ransom. He was doomed, for no crime except the crime of being himself.\" \"\u201cWhat next?\u201d said Nell. She felt exhausted. Treachery is hard work, she thought.\" \"Maybe she would grow cunning, up here on the farm. Maybe she would absorb some of the darkness, which might not be darkness at all but only knowledge. She would turn into a woman others came to for advice. She would be called in emergencies. She would roll up her sleeves and dispense with sentimentality, and do whatever blood-soaked, bad-smelling thing had to be done. She would become adept with axes.\" \"In their second year at the farm, Nell and Tig acquired a white horse. They didn\u2019t buy this horse, or even seek her out. But suddenly, there she was.\" \"There was no point in trying to train him, said Tig: he was too easily frightened.\" \"Between the two of them, Nell and Gladys passed their riding time pleasantly enough. It was a conspiracy, a double impersonation: Nell pretending to be a person who was riding a horse, Gladys pretending to be a horse that was being ridden.\" \"Perhaps. But Nell had no way of knowing. She and her mother weren\u2019t exactly speaking. They weren\u2019t exactly not speaking, either. The silence that had taken the place of speech between them had become its own form of speech. In this silence, language was held suspended. It contained many questions, though no definite answers.\" \"Nell sometimes wondered how much enough would be.\" \"\u201cIsn\u2019t this normal?\u201d said Nell, meaning the ice cream, the cats, the dog, Gladys looking over the fence\u2013the whole bucolic scene. What she meant was domestic.\" \"It\u2019s fun for her to be the judge, thought Nell. She\u2019s been on the judged end enough times.\" \"Lillie didn\u2019t speak of him, but she kept his suits in the closet; she couldn\u2019t bear to give them away. Dead was not an absolute concept to her. Some people were more dead than others, and finally it was a matter of opinion who was dead and who was alive\" \"\u201cA channel?\u201d said Nell. \u201cSort of like a tunnel. A link,\u201d said Susan patiently. \u201cThey come into our world and then they go out of it, right here.\u201d \u201cThis is the place where somebody died,\u201d said Nell. \u201cIn that case, they came here on purpose because they wanted to make a quick transition,\u201d said Susan.\" \"There was something older, something darker, something more terrible. There was something that had been stirred up; it had awakened, it had come to the surface. There was blood.\" \"But what else could I do with all that? thinks Nell, wending her way back to her own house. All that anxiety and anger, those dubious good intentions, those tangled lives, that blood. I can tell about it or I can bury it. In the end, we\u2019ll all become stories. Or else we\u2019ll become entities. Maybe it\u2019s the same.\" \"\u201cBad spirits live there,\u201d says the old Indian. The white men smile and thank him, and disregard his advice. Native superstition, they think. So they go where they\u2019ve been warned not to, and then, after many hardships, they die. The old Indian shakes his head when he hears of it. Foolish white men, but what can you tell them? They have no respect.\" \"For the Indians it would have been the same thing, because where does food come from if not from the spirits? It isn\u2019t just there, it is given; or else withheld\" \"Why talk about the others, because why would anyone want to know about them? There are many plants that have no names because they cannot be eaten or used.\" \"\u201cSlim pickings,\u201d he says. \u201cThey took the wrong river. Even if they\u2019d found the right one, it was too late to start.\u201d\" \"How long is it before they realize they\u2019ve gone up the wrong river? Far too long.\" \"\u201cI want to go home,\u201d he says. I know there\u2019s no point telling him that home is where he now is, because he means something else. He means the way he was before.\" \"Why set words down, just to destroy them? Maybe she saved the diaries until Christmas so she could put the main happenings of the year into her Christmas messages. Then, on New Year\u2019s, she might have erased the old year and started again. She burned letters too.\" \"In those early years of her photo-pasting, she always refers to herself as \u201cMe,\u201d with quotation marks around the word, as if she\u2019s citing some written opinion to the effect that she is who she is.\" \"She\u2019s got them back in the layer of time where they belong.\" \"At this point in the photograph captions my mother stops being \u201cMe\u201d and identifies herself by her initials\u2013her new initials. Or else she leaves her name out entirely.\" \"All of that will give them something to do. I want them to step forward, out of the ranks of the extras. I want them to have speaking parts. I want them to shine.\" \"There they are now, set in motion.\" ...more \"Moral Disorder\" is a collection of short stories by Margaret Atwood published in 2006. While well aware of the author and her many works, this is my first experience with her writing. My interest in short stories for entertainment, as well as for craft, led me to this collection. I am humbled by the breadth and depth so artfully encompassed in such short works of fiction. Visit \"What She's Reading\" https://elizabethconn.com/what-shes-r... where I comment only on the first story, \"The Bad News\" \"Moral Disorder\" is a collection of short stories by Margaret Atwood published in 2006. While well aware of the author and her many works, this is my first experience with her writing. My interest in short stories for entertainment, as well as for craft, led me to this collection. I am humbled by the breadth and depth so artfully encompassed in such short works of fiction. Visit \"What She's Reading\" https://elizabethconn.com/what-shes-r... where I comment only on the first story, \"The Bad News\" and its affect on my thoughts as women across the U.S. gathered to protest in response to what many saw as a contentious political campaign. ...more This was actually my very first experience with Atwood... Was I just never assigned any of her novels in past educational realms? Did I fancy myself \"above\" reading such a \"cliche\" author for that reason--the commonality? I'm sure it's a bit of both. (Note: caught wind that The Handmaid's Tale is an outright terrifying read right now in light of current events). In any event, I absolutely love her style; the raw, intrinsic understanding of human nature is so true it's bewildering. Looking forwar This was actually my very first experience with Atwood... Was I just never assigned any of her novels in past educational realms? Did I fancy myself \"above\" reading such a \"cliche\" author for that reason--the commonality? I'm sure it's a bit of both. (Note: caught wind that The Handmaid's Tale is an outright terrifying read right now in light of current events). In any event, I absolutely love her style; the raw, intrinsic understanding of human nature is so true it's bewildering. Looking forward to delving into more. ...more This was my first Atwood, and I already feel I've wasted time by not reading her before. The stories in this book can be read independently, but also add up to complex whole. Mostly they follow the life of a protagonist from childhood to adulthood, while also tracing the lives of her sister, parents, and others. Often the stories hinge on very particular elements, such as a Halloween costume made and worn just as our protagonist is outgrowing Halloween itself, or the life of a horse that she end This was my first Atwood, and I already feel I've wasted time by not reading her before. The stories in this book can be read independently, but also add up to complex whole. Mostly they follow the life of a protagonist from childhood to adulthood, while also tracing the lives of her sister, parents, and others. Often the stories hinge on very particular elements, such as a Halloween costume made and worn just as our protagonist is outgrowing Halloween itself, or the life of a horse that she ends up taking care of during a spell as a farm holder along with her partner. Also interesting are the stories that aren't told, but which seem to happen between what is told - effectually suggesting the fullness of life and how hard it is to capture it. All of this is written in an admirably simple, effective, and beautiful prose. I now promise to mend my ways and start going through Atwood's impressive catalogue. ...more <+++>Moral Disorder and Other Stories</+++> by Margaret Atwood is a gem of a book and was headed for five stars from me until the very last story. The inside sleeve blurb says: \"By turns funny, lyrical, incisive, tragic, earth, shocking, and deeply personal, <+++>Moral Disorder and Other Stories</+++> displays Atwood's celebrated storytelling gifts and unmistakable style to their best advantage. \"The Bad News\" is set in the present, as a couple no longer young situate themselves in a larger world no longer safe. The n Moral Disorder and Other Stories by Margaret Atwood is a gem of a book and was headed for five stars from me until the very last story. The inside sleeve blurb says: \"By turns funny, lyrical, incisive, tragic, earth, shocking, and deeply personal, Moral Disorder and Other Stories displays Atwood's celebrated storytelling gifts and unmistakable style to their best advantage. \"The Bad News\" is set in the present, as a couple no longer young situate themselves in a larger world no longer safe. The narrative then switches time as the central character moves through childhood and adolescence. We follow her into young adulthood in \"The Other Place\", and then through a complex relationship, traced in four of the stories. The last two stories, \"The Labrador Fiasco\" and \"The Boys at the Lab\" deal with the heartbreaking old age of parents, but circle back again to childhood to complete the cycle.\" Here is the NY Times review in 2006, when the book was published. http://www.nytimes.com/2006/10/15/boo... \"Atwood is coy about the stories\u2019 relationship to one another in a way that proves slightly tricky for the reviewer but stimulating for the reader. They aren\u2019t explicitly about the same woman at different stages of her life, but \u2014 as one gradually, tantalizingly realizes \u2014 they could be, and the fact that the collection is studded with references to doors and tunnels is hardly accidental. The first time through, then, its heroines lean in toward one another, reaching out to clasp hands as the reader stumbles over bits of their shared history. (Isn\u2019t this the same sad sister who threatened suicide earlier? Couldn\u2019t this father, too, be a naturalist?) Upon rereading, however, one is struck by the stories\u2019 integrity \u2014 and how different these girls and women are from who they were or who they may later become: ambitious adolescent; earnest professional; scarlet woman; beleaguered second wife. What do these stages of life really have to do with one another? Atwood\u2019s reticence gestures toward the fractured nature of identity, and how swiftly that identity can change.\" (bold mine) Atwood and I are the same age (76), so this book enchanted me with childhood memories especially. In chapter 2, \"The Art of Cooking and Sewing\", the young girl is 11, and dedicated to knitting a layette for her yet unborn sibling. \"If I could only complete the full set of baby garments, the baby that was supposed to fit inside them would be conjured into the world, and thus out of my mother. Once outside, where I could see it--once it had a face--it could be dealt with. As it was, the thing was a menace.\" And so begins the interwoven story of this girl and her sister, the best developed and most challenging relationship in the book. Atwood dedicates the book \"For my Family\"--and above all, she demonstrates that none of us really know even the closest of our family members. Each of us is the central character in our own story, and our first person POV always leaves those around us distorted into our images of them. Atwood captures so much in this book--I've just purchased a copy, since I don't want to let it go. ...more \"These are the tenses that define us now: past tense, back then; future tense, not yet. We live in the small window between them, the space we've only recently come to think of as still, and really it's no smaller than anyone else's window.\" (p. 4) \"I hadn't yet discovered that I lived in a sort of transparent balloon, drifting over the world without making much contact with it, and the people I knew appeared to me at a different angle from the one at which they appeared to themselves; and the re \"These are the tenses that define us now: past tense, back then; future tense, not yet. We live in the small window between them, the space we've only recently come to think of as still, and really it's no smaller than anyone else's window.\" (p. 4) \"I hadn't yet discovered that I lived in a sort of transparent balloon, drifting over the world without making much contact with it, and the people I knew appeared to me at a different angle from the one at which they appeared to themselves; and the reverse was also true. I was smaller to others, up there in my balloon, than I was to myself. I was also blurrier.\" (p. 25) \"\"It's not enough. I'm tired of playing the game. This is the wrong place for me to be.\" She doesn't mean my house. She means her body. She means the planet Earth. I can see the same thing she's seeing: it's a cliff edge, it's a bridge with a steep drop, it's the end. That's what she wants: The End. Like the end of story.\" (p.47) \"meticulousness, we knew, was just one step away from full-blown lunacy.\" (p. 59) \"Why should being alone- in and of itself- be such a matter of derision? But it was. The alone- the loners- were not to be trusted. They were strange and twisted. Most likely they were psychopaths. They might have a few murdered corpses stowed away in their freezers. They didn't love anyone, and nobody loved them either.\" (p.80) \"One day I'd be flying through the clouds, drunk on cloudy possibilities; the next, up to my neck in mud, dragged down by the sodden prospects of the here and now.\" (p. 84) \"We can't really travel to the past, no matter how we try. If we do, it's as tourists.\" (p.88) \"Once, there had been no lesbians, or none to be seen, but suddenly they were bursting out all over. Some of them weren't even real lesbians; they were just getting back at their husbands for the love beads and the young girls.\" (p. 104) \"The soil of the garden was good enough, though there were a lot of stones. Also shards from broken crockery, and medicine bottles of pressed glass, white and blue and brown. A doll's arm. A tarnished silver spoon. Animal bones. A marble. Layer upon layer of lives lived out.\" (p.121) \"The silence that had taken place of speech between them had become it's own form of speech. In the silence, language was held suspended. It contained many questions, though no definite answers.\" (p.151) \"In the end, we'll all become stories.\" (p.188) \"Where are we without our plots?\" (p.202) ...more This book is, to my mind, a model of what a linked short story collection should be. 1. Each of the stories can stand on its own. None read like fragments of a larger story. 2. Yet, the collection as a whole has a sense of continuity and wholeness. The whole is something more than the sum of its parts. 3. Finally, there\u2019s a reason why it\u2019s a short story collection rather than a novel. It focuses on the life of a single character (Nell), but in tracing that life through short stories, Atwood is a This book is, to my mind, a model of what a linked short story collection should be. 1. Each of the stories can stand on its own. None read like fragments of a larger story. 2. Yet, the collection as a whole has a sense of continuity and wholeness. The whole is something more than the sum of its parts. 3. Finally, there\u2019s a reason why it\u2019s a short story collection rather than a novel. It focuses on the life of a single character (Nell), but in tracing that life through short stories, Atwood is able to achieve something different, reveal different things, than would have emerged within the structure of a novel. I won\u2019t try to sum up the book as a whole. I find this virtually impossible and frankly undesirable in a review of a short story collection. But I will highlight a few things about the content and the structure to support the statements I\u2019ve made above. The collection begins at the end with a story set in the present. Then it skips back to the beginning with a story about eleven-year-old Nell, and proceeds more or less chronologically thereafter. I say more or less, because there\u2019s considerable variation in the breadth of the time span covered by each story which creates some overlap. Arranging the collection with the most recent story first gives a sense of circling back around that creates a sense of wholeness, and knowing how it ends gives the reader a sense of forward motion as immediately you want to figure out how the characters arrived there. The overlapping of stories together with a shift in narrative voice is where the form of the linked story collection offers a different view of the subject than a novel would have done. In particular, there is a shift from first person (stories one through five) to third person (stories six through ten) and back again (story eleven). The initial shift from first to third person occurs at precisely the moment when Nell enters into a common law relationship and begins to feel less an individual and more someone in relation to others--a wife, a stepmother-- so viewing her suddenly from the outside seems exactly right. And along with that, because of the nature of the relationship, this is when Nell begins to feel less in control, so it makes sense that at that point her voice ceases to determine the arc of the narrative. It all adds up to a rich, layered, nuanced look at a life. ...more<---C>Margaret Atwood</---C>", "Title": "Moral Disorder and Other Stories"},
