{"Comments": "Better than the first two books, but still not good enough to keep me hooked. I have a weird relationship with Betsy, kinda love-hate. Sometimes I think she is funny and witty, but then there are other moments in the books where I just wish somebody would smack something really hard in her head. But now,<---M> at least</---M>, she has accepted her relationship with Eric, which makes me wanna like her a bit more. Eric is a sweet and lovely hero. Although I liked him much more in book 1 where he was strong, po Better than the first two books, but still not good enough to keep me hooked. I have a weird relationship with Betsy, kinda love-hate. Sometimes I think she is funny and witty, but then there are other moments in the books where I just wish somebody would smack something really hard in her head. But now, at least, she has accepted her relationship with Eric, which makes me wanna like her a bit more. Eric is a sweet and lovely hero. Although I liked him much more in book 1 where he was strong, powerful and mysterious. Now, he just seems kinda sissy, LOL, not my type oh hero, but I still like him, he's very loyal and caring. I love Jess too, she's a really charismatic character.Although I think that Marc isn't a good one at all. He doesn't do anything, he's just always there. The new character, The devil's spawn, or Betsy's sister, is an amazing incorporation to the series. I think it was what the plot needed to become more interesting. I don't know why, but I just don't like this series as much as I love the Argeneau and the love at stake series, which are really similar in topic and genre, but much better.<---F> I WILL STOP READING THIS SERIES</---F>. While I did not hated it, nor had a bad time reading the first 3 books, I did not get hooked. So I won't waste any more time reading the books in it. ...more This was a very enjoyable, fast read. Betsey, the Queen of the Vampires, gets to meet her half-sister, the spawn of the Devil. There is significant development in her growing relationship with Sinclair, her sexy consort and King. Betsey even turns into a jealous lover when she believes his affections are beginning to lie elsewhere. All the usual side characters were entertaining: <---C>Tina</---C> - Sinclair\u2019s assistant, Jessica - Betsey\u2019s best friend who is still charging Sinclair and Tina rent to live in h This was a very enjoyable, fast read. Betsey, the Queen of the Vampires, gets to meet her half-sister, the spawn of the Devil. There is significant development in her growing relationship with Sinclair, her sexy consort and King. Betsey even turns into a jealous lover when she believes his affections are beginning to lie elsewhere. All the usual side characters were entertaining: Tina - Sinclair\u2019s assistant, Jessica - Betsey\u2019s best friend who is still charging Sinclair and Tina rent to live in her mansion, Marc \u2013 the physician, Nick - the hot cop who is still drawn to Betsey although she hasn\u2019t fed on him since Book 1\u2026..even one of the fiends is beginning to humanize - his name is George and he\u2019s bathing now! :) This book is full of laughs, like when Marc and Jessica, who is black, get into a little heated discussion over the n-word, and Tina stays quiet because she was alive when the Emancipation Proclamation was signed and it\u2019s still a sensitive subject for her! Also loved the scene where Betsey meets the Devil, who\u2019s an extremely stylish woman and Betsey\u2019s tempted to sell her soul for some custom-made gorgeous heels! This book was peppered with fun moments like this. I will be continuing with this series very soon. Can\u2019t wait for the wedding! Jessica is spearheading the planning, so I expect nothing but extravagance. ...more 4 Stars: Mary Janice Davidson is a master at creating fun characters and story lines that make you laugh aloud. Among some of my favorites. Outstanding literary work. The characters are well developed, interesting. The liked characters are likable and the hated are unlikable. The writing is captivating enough to keep you interested until the end and leave you wanting more. It has a fairly original or uniquely well-developed plot. The pretense and romance was well balanced and done with properly d 4 Stars: Mary Janice Davidson is a master at creating fun characters and story lines that make you laugh aloud. Among some of my favorites. Outstanding literary work. The characters are well developed, interesting. The liked characters are likable and the hated are unlikable. The writing is captivating enough to keep you interested until the end and leave you wanting more. It has a fairly original or uniquely well-developed plot. The pretense and romance was well balanced and done with properly distributed amounts of hints, behaviors and chemistry. Not so much predictable if at all. Overall, loved it, I recommend reading!! ...more Another 2.5, although it was a bit more interesting due to a new character & plot line opening up. Easy listening on the commute to & from work. If I miss a few seconds, it's not a big deal. Definitely fluff, but entertaining fluff & Wu does a great job reading the parts. The characters have added a bit more depth, but they're still not popping. That might be part of the charm for some people since it tends to add to the humor. Betsy has not taken well to learning that not only is she a vampire but the queen of the vampires. Sure, her mother and her best friend adjusted to the change amazingly but even with that support, Betsy cannot seem to stay out of trouble. When Betsy learns that she has a half sister, she is drawn to investigate. Just like everything else in Betsy's life, nothing runs smoothly. In between dealing with a strike at her vampire club Scratch, and dealing with a hurt Eric, Betsy now has to keep a clos Betsy has not taken well to learning that not only is she a vampire but the queen of the vampires. Sure, her mother and her best friend adjusted to the change amazingly but even with that support, Betsy cannot seem to stay out of trouble. When Betsy learns that she has a half sister, she is drawn to investigate. Just like everything else in Betsy's life, nothing runs smoothly. In between dealing with a strike at her vampire club Scratch, and dealing with a hurt Eric, Betsy now has to keep a close eye on her sister because she is the child of the devil and destined to the rule the world. I know from the introduction, it seemed that a lot happened in this book but that is certainly not the case. Only in the most generous description can <+++>Undead and Unappreciated</+++> be called a filler and I say that because the entire series is absolute mindless fluff. It begins with Betsy going to AA and pretending to be an alcoholic in order to deal with her need to drink blood. Look, I know that for a lot of people vampirism is a metaphor for addiction but to be clear, it's a horrible analogy. So, Davidson has Betsy do this horrible thing and it goes absolutely nowhere. It's nothing but a launching pad for Mark to tell Betsy that he is a recovering addict and for her to temporarily beat herself up for not knowing such an essential detail about a man she calls a friend before going back to obsessing about shoes and Eric's control issues. Betsy goes all evil vampire Queen when she finally gets around to reading the Vampire bible. It only took her two books to get around it and naturally she decides to barricade herself in a room with it, ignoring the advice to read it sparingly because it causes mental illness. Also, can I get a side eye on the whole woo woo causing mental illness? In Betsy's supposedly mentally ill state, she attacks Jessica, calls Marc a leech, has sex with Eric and tries to kill Tina. When Betsy gets back to herself she has a mess to clean up. Though Jessica isolates herself for a few days, she is quick to forgive Betsy and Tina and Marc follow suit. Betsy is briefly able to go outside during the day but beyond that, nothing much happens. Then there's Betsy's kid sister Laura. Betsy's father lets slip that Ant has been pregnant before and gave the child up for adoption. When Besty learns that Laura's mother is actually the devil and that Laura is destined to rule the world, Betsy is in with both feet temporarily and I say temporarily because Betsy gets over the whole hell spawn thing pretty quickly and starts to angst over her fear that Eric is into her kid sister. Betsy has amazing priorities doesn't she? Even when she meets the devil, she considers selling her soul for a pair of shoes. The Devil/Laura storyline goes absolutely nowhere. When I said that nothing happens in this book, I absolutely mean it. <+++>Undead and Unappreciated</+++> wouldn't be a <---A>MaryJanice Davidson</---A> book without loads of problematic language. Betsy is still obsessed with Gone With The Wind and each time it's mentioned my skin absolutely crawls. Marc is Betsy's gay BFF, who at this point is single with no chance of a relationship and seems to have nothing to do with his spare time other than to be in Betsy's corner. We did learn that Marc is a recovering alcoholic in this book and Betsy did actually notice that she has not taken the time to learn anything substantial about Marc. Yes, that's progress for Betsy but it does nothing to make Marc less of a servant. Then there's Jessica, Betsy's Black BFF. Yes this woman has a collection of marginalized servants. Jessica seems to exist to serve Betsy and beyond being there to advise Betsy on her love life and pay the bills, Jessica has no real purpose in the story. For much of this series this far, Jessica's race serves as comic relief. Yep, Blackness as comic relief, feel free to roll your eyes. Read More ...more The first two books were silly fluff, with a largely unlikeable heroine but enough of a quirky setup that I was interested to read on. Train stops here, though. Betsy becomes even more shallow, pigheaded and crass, if that's possible. Everyone else operates as spokes on her self-centered little wheel. Plot points are brought up only to be left as loose ends. Betsy's half-sister seems to be a plot thread, except that there's no real event or resolution involving her. Sinclair's an idiot who is app The first two books were silly fluff, with a largely unlikeable heroine but enough of a quirky setup that I was interested to read on. Train stops here, though. Betsy becomes even more shallow, pigheaded and crass, if that's possible. Everyone else operates as spokes on her self-centered little wheel. Plot points are brought up only to be left as loose ends. Betsy's half-sister seems to be a plot thread, except that there's no real event or resolution involving her. Sinclair's an idiot who is apparently brain-dead, to be attracted to this infant Betsy. This entire book was just filler, with nothing happening of any consequence and no character developing in any way. I hit the end and couldn't believe the author published something so half-baked. Put a stiletto through her heart, she's done. ...more I'm fairly patient with chick-lit (<---B>and vampire chick-lit</---B>) - I don't expect it to be unusually clever or well-written. It's just something to pass the time and make for incredibly light reading. This book was a little too fluffy and insubstantial for my tastes, but I was really bothered by a particular detail- the author writes intricate descriptions of the character's clothing and shoes... and the implication is clearly supposed to be that the character is shoe-obsessed and has good, albeit expe I'm fairly patient with chick-lit (and vampire chick-lit) - I don't expect it to be unusually clever or well-written. It's just something to pass the time and make for incredibly light reading. This book was a little too fluffy and insubstantial for my tastes, but I was really bothered by a particular detail- the author writes intricate descriptions of the character's clothing and shoes... and the implication is clearly supposed to be that the character is shoe-obsessed and has good, albeit expensive tastes. If this is the goal - the author really needs to have an editor or consultant to who knows something about fashion. It was so distracting to me. Much like the Sookie Stackhouse novels written by Charlaine Harris - you immediately realize that the author knows nothing about clothing and style and she would better serve her character by simply skipping the fashion obsession as it is in no way convincing. It's enough suspension of disbelief to try to immerse yourself in a novel and say \"Ok. The main character is the queen of the vampires. Her half sister is the daughter of Satan? ok... She DOESN'T want to sleep with the gorgeous vampire king character. hmph... Wait. She's wearing PENNY LOAFERS AND A MOCK TURTLENECK?\" No. No you didn't. That's where I draw the line. Does anyone even SELL mock turtlenecks anymore? Dear god, that's absurd. I think L.L.Bean is the only place you've been able to buy them since... what? 1992? That is RIDICULOUS. And if a character owns Manolos, she wouldn't be caught dead in Penny Loafers. Unless she was being IRONIC. It was that bad. Everything else might have been entertaining if those details weren't ABSURD. ...more I love Betsy! This time around, she learns she has a half-sister, Laura. Yay! Then she reads the Book of the Dead and goes insane. Boo! It turns out that a side effect of reading the book is a trip to crazy-town. Before she gets control of herself she manages to take a bite out of Jess and seduce Eric. Naturally, Jess is livid, and more than a little freaked out at Betsy for chomping on her. But it is Eric's suprising reaction to finding out Betsy was loco when they had sex that really sends our I love Betsy! This time around, she learns she has a half-sister, Laura. Yay! Then she reads the Book of the Dead and goes insane. Boo! It turns out that a side effect of reading the book is a trip to crazy-town. Before she gets control of herself she manages to take a bite out of Jess and seduce Eric. Naturally, Jess is livid, and more than a little freaked out at Betsy for chomping on her. But it is Eric's suprising reaction to finding out Betsy was loco when they had sex that really sends our heroine into a tailspin. Let the groveling for forgiveness begin! Oh yeah, as if she didn't have enough problems...she needs to find a gentle way to let her innocent little sis know that her biological mother is the Devil. Not only that, but Satan expects her little girl to take over the world, and Betsy needs to make sure that doesn't happen! Since Laura was raised by a minister and his wife, and is as sweet as chocloate syrup, this poses some real problems! As with all of the Undead books, this one is a fun and easy read! ...more Betsy just keeps getting better and better. This time there are several new character who play a part in Betsy's life as the new vampire queen. I love the way fashion is mixed into whatever new danger or problem Betsy finds herself in. I have to laugh about who she is so hung up on fashion. Shoes have never had as big a role as they do with Betsy. It best part was when she turned evil and did not care about what was on her feet. I am listening to the stories and the reader really does have the r Betsy just keeps getting better and better. This time there are several new character who play a part in Betsy's life as the new vampire queen. I love the way fashion is mixed into whatever new danger or problem Betsy finds herself in. I have to laugh about who she is so hung up on fashion. Shoes have never had as big a role as they do with Betsy. It best part was when she turned evil and did not care about what was on her feet. I am listening to the stories and the reader really does have the role down pat adding additional enjoyment to the books. ...more The introduction of a devil spawn half sister has me thinking I don't have the staying power to make it to the end of this series, but for now I'm still enjoying it. Nothing happened. It was 200+ pages of nothing. I loved everything about the first three stories, and with this one I got to see our anti-hero couple finally get together. The characters were so well written you feel like you know them. And, my sweet Sinclair was so misunderstood\u2026. Moral to the story.... Men Never Know What A Woman Wants. You have to tell them.... \"Really? Yes? You'll do it?\" \u201cOf course you had only to ask.\u201d \u201cI have only to ask see this is part of the problem\u201d \u201cElizabeth darling shut up\u201d and then he kissed me again. As much as I loved everything about the first three stories, and with this one I got to see our anti-hero couple finally get together. The characters were so well written you feel like you know them. And, my sweet Sinclair was so misunderstood\u2026. Moral to the story.... Men Never Know What A Woman Wants. You have to tell them.... \"Really? Yes? You'll do it?\" \u201cOf course you had only to ask.\u201d \u201cI have only to ask see this is part of the problem\u201d \u201cElizabeth darling shut up\u201d and then he kissed me again. As much as I enjoyed Betsy\u2019s undead adventures, I\u2019m stopping here at book 3. Great writing style, and Great reading\u2026 ...more \u2026you just never knew when a totally normal vampire errand would end in a bloodbath with severed-limb soap. Undead and Unappreciated is the third book of the Undead series. Betsy's adventures continue, and finally she finds - I guess it's neither a secret nor a surprise - 'happily ever after' with Eric Sinclair. I opened my door and gaped. Sinclair was in my bed. \u201cDon't you think this is a little presumptuous?\u201d \u201cNo.\u201d \u201cI debated outside your door and decided to give you space!\u201d \u201cHow sweet. Plea \u2026you just never knew when a totally normal vampire errand would end in a bloodbath with severed-limb soap. Undead and Unappreciated is the third book of the Undead series. Betsy's adventures continue, and finally she finds - I guess it's neither a secret nor a surprise - 'happily ever after' with Eric Sinclair. I opened my door and gaped. Sinclair was in my bed. \u201cDon't you think this is a little presumptuous?\u201d \u201cNo.\u201d \u201cI debated outside your door and decided to give you space!\u201d \u201cHow sweet. Please strip now.\u201d I snorted, torn between irritation, arousal, and plain old happiness. One thing about Eric Sinclair: he didn't dither. Betsy and Eric After the prologue, I was so afraid that Betsy would be whining throughout the book that she didn\u2019t want to be neither the queen, nor a vampire, not even the consort of Sinclair. So I was very relieved when she finally pulled herself together, and saw daylight (literally). \u201cSix months of pushing him away, and when I succeeded, I was sick about it.\u201d Thank God! Here is the development I wished for! Betsy is still acting crazy, her thoughts and behavior are rhapsodic: \u201cWhy don't you mind your own fucking business for once?\u201d I snapped. \u201cIf I want to take my sister to my place of business, that's my own damned business and not any of your business.\u201d Was I overusing the word business? Fuck it. \u201cSo mind your own business.\u201d But she also can be sober, confident, and full of determination and plans for the future. So, the romance of Betsy and Eric comes to pass in this book. I don\u2019t say \u2018finally\u2019, or \u2018at last\u2019, as it is the third book. I guess, the timing is okay, and I\u2019m really curious about their future together. Betsy is surprisingly sober-minded and rational about it, Eric is sweet and open, and I love their natural and unpretentious ways with each other. I Disliked - Betsy is saved again. It would be great to see her finally saving herself, without any help by others, to see her proving her strength, and superior abilities. - The prologue with the AA meeting, and Nick\u2019s appearance \u2013 totally unnecessary. - Betsy\u2019s viewpoint is very limited as she focuses only on herself. For example, I would love to know more about Sinclair. And I\u2019m wondering whether Jessica doesn\u2019t have a life of her own? I mean, does she never date? Or doesn\u2019t she have other friends, or a cousin? Or some kind of occupation? Or hobbies? Anything. So the storytelling is one-sided, but at least it is not outstretched. I Liked - Laura, the goody-goody spawn of the Devil, who \u201cturned her back on her destiny\u201d. Nice! And surprising too, I really didn\u2019t see what was coming! - George, with the finest butt among the Fiends, playing with skeins of yarn. Weird. Anyway, his attraction to Betsy, and his endeavor to be near her, \u201ccreepy but kind of cute\u201d. :) Both Laura and George are promising and refreshing characters, I\u2019m looking forward to seeing how their storylines progress. - The effects of the Book of the Dead on Betsy. The change of her thoughts is shown smartly and in a really terrifying way. - The story ends with Andrea and Daniel\u2019s wedding ceremony. Great, I love it! Just a small episode, nothing cheesy, but it is overall romantic and nice. All in all It is an enjoyable read, and much better than the second one. Though the plot is not well-composed; it seems to consist of loose, random events in succession. I missed some intense erotica, and I hope Betsy\u2019s viewpoint will broaden in the following books. Originally posted on my blog on April 18, 2013. My favorite quotes. ...more Undead and Unappreciated is the third novel in the Queen Betsy (or Undead) saga and a series which I absolutely love. It is a satire of the basic trends in vampire novels to treat everything as ultra serious while also parodying the harmless vampires of fiction. Betsy is a traditional vampire in most respects with her powers very similar to those of Bram Stoker's Dracula but she's a product of the modern world as well as a shoe-obsessed working class former Ms. Congeniality. However, she's acco Undead and Unappreciated is the third novel in the Queen Betsy (or Undead) saga and a series which I absolutely love. It is a satire of the basic trends in vampire novels to treat everything as ultra serious while also parodying the harmless vampires of fiction. Betsy is a traditional vampire in most respects with her powers very similar to those of Bram Stoker's Dracula but she's a product of the modern world as well as a shoe-obsessed working class former Ms. Congeniality. However, she's accompanied by a house full of weaker more corrupt vampires (or just pleasantly scheming like Sinclair) plus her human friends. In the previous volumes, she became ruler of the undead and tried (as well as failed) to maintain a normal life. Undead and Unappreciated begins with the premise of Betsy's mother-in-law Antonia (nicknamed \"The Ant\") giving birth to the Queen of the Vampire's half-brother. It is around these circumstances Betsy's powers force her father to reveal she has another half-sibling. Not long after discovering this fact, poor Betsy discovers this half-sibling is actually the Antichrist. Yes, it turns out her stepmother was possessed by the Devil during her pregnancy. A fact repeatedly mentioned being that no one noticed because her behavior was no worse. Worse, the Antichrist will probably take over the world soon and Queen Betsy makes it her mission to stop her half-sibling! Well, sort of. First, our heroine has to get to know her diabolic sibling and kind of half-asses the process of stopping her. Betsy's got a vampire nightclub to run, you see, and she's doing a terrible job of it. The staff hate her, she can't afford the liquor bill, and no one in Minnesota wants to go to a vampire bar where they can't drink blood. Actually, I'm with her disgruntled employees on this one. If you're going to do a vampire bar then don't remove the vampires from it! This is a slightly more subdued novel than the previous volmes of the series. There's no major villain despite the set up and it's more a slice-of-life following Betsy's slow acceptance of her role as vampiredom's ruler. Even more so, this is a book about Betsy finally accepting Sinclair as her happily ever after. While he has always been the obvious winner of Betsy's heart, his arrogance about that fact has always been his most off-putting quality to his wife-by-vampire-law. There's a huge number of really funny scenes spread throughout the book like Betsy temporarily going evil due to brainwashing (and mostly just getting really catty) and the first encounter with the Anti-Anti Christ. The final confrontation with the \"villains\" is also one which subverts a lot of laws about how to have a big dramatic action-filled climax. The best part of the book, though, is definitely Laura Goodman. Without spoiling the twist, she's one of my favorite characters in the series and while occasionally isn't on Team Betsy, is still someone I hope ends up with a happily ever after at the end of the series. She's one of the series strongest characters and her debut is irrepressibly funny even if Betsy expresses perhaps too much shock at the discovery she's not quite Damien Thorne. I absolutely loved the climax with her in the book and think new readers will too. In conclusion, Undead and Unappreciated is an excellent book but not quite as entertaining as the previous two. Not much happens and the book relies more on broad comedy and sketches rather than a coherent strong plot. Of course, part of the appeal of the series is its Seinfeldian approach to unlife. It is the vampire series about nothing and that's why it's something I can always turn to for a laugh. 8/10 ...more \"Undead and Unappreciated\" is a fun addition to the 'Undead' series, although it's a very short read, a lot happens. Betsy, the Queen of the Vampires, is a shoe loving, blood-obstaining vampire who drinks milk instead. However, because she's queen nothing harms her, including crosses and even stakes. There is the Book of the Dead though, and after fighting with Eric Sinclair, she closes herself off in the library and reads for hours. But she ignores the warnings that reading too much for too long \"Undead and Unappreciated\" is a fun addition to the 'Undead' series, although it's a very short read, a lot happens. Betsy, the Queen of the Vampires, is a shoe loving, blood-obstaining vampire who drinks milk instead. However, because she's queen nothing harms her, including crosses and even stakes. There is the Book of the Dead though, and after fighting with Eric Sinclair, she closes herself off in the library and reads for hours. But she ignores the warnings that reading too much for too long can make you go insane. Unfortunately, it gets to Betsy and she ends up hurting many of her friends, including Jessica, Marc and also Sinclair. Betsy also finds out that she has a half sister who is also the devil's daughter. She decides to seek her out, which she does, but the girl she finds is far from what the image of the devil's daughter should be. When Betsy became the Vampire Queen she inherited a bar, Scratch, but the vampire staff are not happy and she finds a mutiny on her hands. They group together to go on strike for better working conditions as Betsy has said no to biting and drinking from humans, but they disagree. There is something more sinister going on too... VERDICT: \"Undead and Unappreciated\" is a very short novel, more of a novella really, and therefore with so much going on it felt a bit like a whirlwind through Betsy's life. However, Davidson's writing is so witty and I really enjoy her writing style. The sarcasm, snarkiness and banter from Betsy is so funny. Although this isn't the strongest book in the series so far, it is still pure entertainment. ...more Betsy is back with her usual charm. It has been a while since I read Undead and Unemployed , so I have kind of missed Jessica and Marc (Betsy's friends), Tina (another young-looking vampire friend), and of course the gorgeous Eric Sinclair. In this book, Elizabeth Taylor the Queen of the Undead finds out that she has a long-lost half sister. Wait... that's not the surprise. This sister turns out to be the Devil's (yup, that one from Hell) daughter, and has been destined to take over the World. Be Betsy is back with her usual charm. It has been a while since I read Undead and Unemployed , so I have kind of missed Jessica and Marc (Betsy's friends), Tina (another young-looking vampire friend), and of course the gorgeous Eric Sinclair. In this book, Elizabeth Taylor the Queen of the Undead finds out that she has a long-lost half sister. Wait... that's not the surprise. This sister turns out to be the Devil's (yup, that one from Hell) daughter, and has been destined to take over the World. Betsy now has to find her immediately, even though she has no clue on what to do once she finds her. Especially when this girl turns out to be nothing she has imagined before. The story is full of snappy dialogues and funny scenes. I was, however, a bit bored at the start when the characters kept on rambling about finding this 'evil sister' but did not do anything fast enough and the story seemed to go nowhere. Then just like that, Betsy did something unexpectedly ~ evil *singsong voice here*, and everything took speed from there that I could not put the book down until I finished it (which was not difficult considering the book only has 193 pages). Very recommended for: people looking for light, funny, no-need-to-think kind of story, with a little touch of Vampire bites (which people cannot seem to get over with) - nothing too serious. ...more Betsy hat es mit ihrem neuen Club nicht leicht, dass man aber auch immer das Hab und Gut desjenigen Vampirs erbt, den man umgebracht hat... Und dann kommt es noch dicker, im wahrsten Sinne des Wortes, ihre verhasste Stiefmutter ist schwanger und sie erf\u00e4hrt, dass sie eine Halbschwester hat, die ungk\u00fccklicherweise die Tochter des Teufels ist, wobei die Verwandschaft \u00fcber ihren Vater her r\u00fchrt, die Mutter ist der teufel, der ihre Stiefmutter eine Zeit lang \u00fcbernommen hatte. Das sagt doch schon alle Betsy hat es mit ihrem neuen Club nicht leicht, dass man aber auch immer das Hab und Gut desjenigen Vampirs erbt, den man umgebracht hat... Und dann kommt es noch dicker, im wahrsten Sinne des Wortes, ihre verhasste Stiefmutter ist schwanger und sie erf\u00e4hrt, dass sie eine Halbschwester hat, die ungk\u00fccklicherweise die Tochter des Teufels ist, wobei die Verwandschaft \u00fcber ihren Vater her r\u00fchrt, die Mutter ist der teufel, der ihre Stiefmutter eine Zeit lang \u00fcbernommen hatte. Das sagt doch schon alles, oder? Keiner hat den Unterschied gemerkt, ob mit oder ohne Teufel, ihre Stiefmutter ist einfach nur ne Pest. Mit Betsys Halbschwester Laura kommt ein interessanter neuer Charakter in die Serie. Sie wurde von einem Pastorenehepaar adoptiert, geht regelm\u00e4\u00dfig in die Kirche und ist einfach zuckers\u00fc\u00df, zumindest meistens...., wenn man sie nicht reizt, ... An absolutes Highlight ist der h\u00e4kelnde George the fiend (ich wei\u00df nicht wie er auf deutsch hei\u00dft), einer meiner Lieblingscharakt\u00e4re. Ich mag diesen Band sehr, weil er wenig Sinclair und unn\u00fctze Bettszenen enth\u00e4lt und weil die Geschichte in diesem Band wirklich vorankommt. ...more I'm really surprised - almost stunned - at how much I'm enjoying this series, since I'm not all that crazy about most urban fantasy. But how can you not love a 6-months-dead vampire who turns out to be Queen of the Vampires AND who has a shoe fetish?! Granted, I don't even recognize the names of many of the expensive shoemakers, but Betsy does know an expensive shoe when she sees it, especially when the she-devil is wearing it ( I jumped ahead just a little with that detail ). Betsy is still trying I'm really surprised - almost stunned - at how much I'm enjoying this series, since I'm not all that crazy about most urban fantasy. But how can you not love a 6-months-dead vampire who turns out to be Queen of the Vampires AND who has a shoe fetish?! Granted, I don't even recognize the names of many of the expensive shoemakers, but Betsy does know an expensive shoe when she sees it, especially when the she-devil is wearing it ( I jumped ahead just a little with that detail ). Betsy is still trying to come to terms with her death, her queen-status, and her feelings for Sinclair, but now she has something serious to worry about - the Ant (her stepmother) is pregnant for the second time. And then the vampires learn that the devil borrowed the Ant's body for her first pregnancy, and the devil's daughter is loose somewhere out there in Minneapolis or St. Paul, and they have to find and destroy her before she destroys the world. WAIT! Betsy's dad is the father, so this devil's daughter is her half-sister. What to do??!! ...more These are cute books and wonderful when that dark cloud of depression settles over you. (Which is what seems to be happening this weekend.) Betsy is still drooling over shoes and trying to learn how to rule the undead. The language is such fun. I have absolutely nothing in common with Betsy and I think that's part of the fun. I have NEVER worried about what my shoes looked like. (I'm more interested in how they FEEL.) The great addition in this book is a half-sister - who also happens to be the These are cute books and wonderful when that dark cloud of depression settles over you. (Which is what seems to be happening this weekend.) Betsy is still drooling over shoes and trying to learn how to rule the undead. The language is such fun. I have absolutely nothing in common with Betsy and I think that's part of the fun. I have NEVER worried about what my shoes looked like. (I'm more interested in how they FEEL.) The great addition in this book is a half-sister - who also happens to be the daughter of Satan - and -- WOOT! -- Satan is a woman! (It would've even been better if God were a woman too. But, I think that would be a shock to too many Republicans.) Can't wait to find Book #4! ...more This series just isn't for me. I'm not into the whole funny vampires mixed with chick lit thing. And I couldn't care less or know less about the shoes Betsey is obsessed with. I tried the first one in the series a while back and it was OK I guess. I have the second one in audio that I bought before I knew these books weren't for me so eventually I'll listen to it since I hate paying the money for an audio only to never listen to it. This one I just happened to see at the library on CD and I need This series just isn't for me. I'm not into the whole funny vampires mixed with chick lit thing. And I couldn't care less or know less about the shoes Betsey is obsessed with. I tried the first one in the series a while back and it was OK I guess. I have the second one in audio that I bought before I knew these books weren't for me so eventually I'll listen to it since I hate paying the money for an audio only to never listen to it. This one I just happened to see at the library on CD and I needed somethign of this genre for a book challenge so decided to check it out, espeically since it was so short. But still did not hing for me and I just find Betsey annoying to no end. The narrator, Nancy Wu does a good job though which is the only thing that really kept me from hating it. ...more In this latest volume in the saga of Betsy, Queen of the Vampires, everyone finds out Betsy has a half sister who is also the daughter of the devil, so that\u2019s super. Also, Betsy and Eric work on their relationship, which was hot. Plus, Andrea and Daniel from \u201cDead Girls Don\u2019t Dance\u201d make a cameo and it was to see them again. Marc doesn\u2019t factor as much in this one which makes me sad because I heart him. I want more meaty info on the mythology of these particular vampires and especially more back In this latest volume in the saga of Betsy, Queen of the Vampires, everyone finds out Betsy has a half sister who is also the daughter of the devil, so that\u2019s super. Also, Betsy and Eric work on their relationship, which was hot. Plus, Andrea and Daniel from \u201cDead Girls Don\u2019t Dance\u201d make a cameo and it was to see them again. Marc doesn\u2019t factor as much in this one which makes me sad because I heart him. I want more meaty info on the mythology of these particular vampires and especially more background on Betsy\u2019s sister, but those details do not seem forthcoming. Even if you\u2019re not that interested in this series, it\u2019s worth it for the image of a fiend learning to crochet. This review is nearly as rambly, inane and tangential as Betsy herself. ...more I wasn't as huge of a fan of this one. Eric Sinclair her lover and king has royally effed up with her. And what does Betsy do? She gives in entirely too easily. This is where I noticed a shift within the series. I am not happy with that shift, Eric started using more \"dears\" and I didn't like it, he didn't seem to be the same Sinclair we loved before. He was starting to show his vampire age. I'm just not loving the direction this went. We had a great fun story going and now it's getting heavy an I wasn't as huge of a fan of this one. Eric Sinclair her lover and king has royally effed up with her. And what does Betsy do? She gives in entirely too easily. This is where I noticed a shift within the series. I am not happy with that shift, Eric started using more \"dears\" and I didn't like it, he didn't seem to be the same Sinclair we loved before. He was starting to show his vampire age. I'm just not loving the direction this went. We had a great fun story going and now it's getting heavy and less exciting and more mundane. I don't even know WHY they love each other. *sigh* I still want to know whats going on in the series though. ...more Like the previous two books, I couldn\u2019t put this down. I was intrigued with the addition of Laura and can\u2019t wait to see more of that storyline. I\u2019m also glad that a decision was made between Sinclair and Betsy. My only complaint came from The Book of the Dead . I hated the scenes with Betsy after she read the book and her interactions with Jessica and Marc. One of the things I really love about this series is the friendship between Jessica and Betsy and I really felt the book suffered with their Like the previous two books, I couldn\u2019t put this down. I was intrigued with the addition of Laura and can\u2019t wait to see more of that storyline. I\u2019m also glad that a decision was made between Sinclair and Betsy. My only complaint came from The Book of the Dead . I hated the scenes with Betsy after she read the book and her interactions with Jessica and Marc. One of the things I really love about this series is the friendship between Jessica and Betsy and I really felt the book suffered with their \u201cfight\u201d. ...more Okay I love the humor in this series. And the characters are soo likeable. I really like that it is very different from the other vampire books that are out there. And I can not wait to see what happens to the characters and how the main character deals with things that happen in her life. Yeah some of it tends to be way out there but the humor of it makes up for it plus the characters are so well written. Und auch im dritten Teil muss ich den Humor der Autorin loben! Ich liebe es und habe beim Lesen wirklich richtig gelacht, obwohl ich gerade unterwegs war :D Die B\u00fccher sind au\u00dferdem wahnsinnig schnell durchgelesen und ich mag es, dass die Geschichten immer einen kleinen Spannungsteil haben und gr\u00f6\u00dftenteils mit den gleichen Figuren auskommt. Besty finds out she has a half-sister who is the devils daughter, Litterally! Its so hysterical and Ironic at the same time. She is still having trouble controling vamps that are supposed to be under her rule. Now this was better Queen Betsy is finally getting her groove on. It's about time damn it, Sinclair is a saint. Queen Betsy is starting to get with the program, taking her responsibilities as the Queen more seriously. Now this one is a winner. Encore un tr\u00e8s bon tomes que j'ai beaucoup aim\u00e9 ! Et Sinclair est toujours aussi ... *bave* Mon avis complet : http://morduedelivres.over-blog.com/a... 2.5 - 3. I spent the first half of the book annoyed with Betsy. The second half was easier once I settled into the snark and slapstick. I enjoyed the happy ending. This series is good but not great. I'm not even sure I'm going to continue with the rest of the series.", "Title": "Undead and Unappreciated"},
