{"Comments": "FROM THE MEMOIRS OF CATHERINE THE GREAT First things first: that wasn\u2019t my real name. The Empress Elizabeth,<---M> who was Peter the Great\u2019s daughter (now</---M>, that is a man who truly deserves \u201cthe Great\u201d after his name!), changed my name to Ekaterina when she converted me into the Russian Orthodox religion. As for that superfluous title that follows my new name, it was prematurely bestowed on me by the Legislative Commission that I convened to give Russia a more enlightened legal code (more on this later) FROM THE MEMOIRS OF CATHERINE THE GREAT First things first: that wasn\u2019t my real name. The Empress Elizabeth, who was Peter the Great\u2019s daughter (now, that is a man who truly deserves \u201cthe Great\u201d after his name!), changed my name to Ekaterina when she converted me into the Russian Orthodox religion. As for that superfluous title that follows my new name, it was prematurely bestowed on me by the Legislative Commission that I convened to give Russia a more enlightened legal code (more on this later). I brought them together to study laws, and they were busy discussing my virtues instead. Imagine that! I still blush with embarrassment whenever I recall the incident, although I cannot say that I\u2019m thoroughly displeased with it. My real name is Sophie Friederike Auguste von Anhalt-Zerbst-Dornburg. Yes --- I was a German import. Many Romanov royals, including my future husband Tsar Peter III, are actually Germans , specifically Prussians. This caused some awkwardness later when we went to war against Prussia in my reign --- but that was still far in the future. Papa was the ruler of the Anhalt-Zerbst principality. Some people would call him a minor aristocrat, but he was still a prince, nein ? Mama was formerly a princess of the house of Holstein-Gottorp (yes, that\u2019s where those lovely cows come from), whose late brother was affianced to the young Empress Elizabeth. He died of smallpox before the wedding, but Elizabeth never forgot him, and when it was time to look for a spouse for the Tsarevich, she naturally turned toward his family. I was all of 14 years old when Elizabeth summoned Mama and me to Russia to marry Peter III. I was just a tiny slip of a girl then! The entirety of my trousseau consisted of three old dresses, a dozen chemises, a few pair of stockings and a few handkerchiefs. You see, Mama had spent all of the money that the empress sent for me on her own wardrobe.<---F> That\u2019s Mama for you</---F>. Soon after my wedding, Elizabeth unceremoniously sent her back home for being a meddlesome mother-in-law and a clumsy Prussian secret agent. I never saw her again for the rest of my life. That\u2019s my husband. As you can see, he\u2019s not much of a catch, but he\u2019s still Peter the Great\u2019s only surviving grandson, and that\u2019s who I married --- the future Tsar of all the Russias. Peter was a sickly man-child who would rather play with his toy soldiers on our marital bed than with me. He was not allowed to play with them during the day, so they were hidden under the bed. As soon as we were both in bed, Madame Krause, our nanny/supervisor, would come in and brought out the toy soldiers. I couldn\u2019t even move in the bed --- they were so many of them! Peter played with them until well after midnight, and every time someone knocked at the door to check on us, we had to scramble to hide the toys under the blanket. It was farcical: a newly married couple constantly on guard lest they be caught playing with toys. But the Empress Elizabeth was not amused when, years into our marriage, we had not produced the heir that she was expecting from us. The fact is that my husband never touched me for the first nine years of our marriage. There was a lot of speculation as to the reason why. He openly told me that he was in love with another woman --- one of my ladies in waiting --- but it seemed that the relationship was similarly unconsummated. Others speculated that he was just simply too physically and mentally immature to father a child. Some of our learned doctors even diagnosed him with phimosis ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phimosis ). Sergei Saltykov, the first of my twelve lovers (oh, how handsome he was!), convinced him to have an operation to correct the condition. You see, once Sergei was involved with me, he became anxious of his own safety. What if I got pregnant? But if Peter had been known to be able to consummate our marriage, who could say that Sergei was responsible? It turned out that my paramour was unnecessarily worried: the empress herself had instructed her minions to provide me with a more reliable male for the purposes of begetting an heir --- and Sergei was one of those considered! Anyway, I soon fell pregnant, resulting in Paul, the long-awaited Romanov heir. Many people claimed to see a marked resemblance between my son and my husband, not just in looks, but also in their shared hobby of playing soldier. But whenever I wanted to needle my son, I always said that Sergei Saltykov was his father. We never got on well, Paul and I, perhaps because I rarely saw him during his childhood. The Empress Elizabeth whisked him away right after he was born, smothered him with frustrated maternal love and casted me aside. When my first grandson was born, I contemplated bypassing Paul altogether and make him Tsar Alexander I, but it was not to happen. After the empress passed way, Peter briefly got to be Tsar, before he was forcibly deposed by the army, who made me empress instead. Peter idolized Frederick II, the Prussian king who was at war with us, and wanted to make peace with him. The patriotic Russian people hated this radical change in foreign policy and casted their lot with me instead. My then boyfriend, Grigory Orlov (that\u2019s him below, by the way --- isn\u2019t he dashing?), and his brother made sure that Peter was mysteriously dispatched soon after, and I got to gloriously rally the Russian people on horseback wearing the uniform of a colonel of the Preobrazhensky Regiment. Boyfriend#3 The reign of Catherine II officially begins! I believed in the strong Russian motherland and added many territories, 520,000 km2 in all, to Peter the Great\u2019s empire. When he was only able to gain a toehold in the south, I completed his conquest by defeating the ailing Turks (and gaining a warm water port, so crucial for Russia, in the process). The former Ottoman territories around the Black Sea, the Ukraine, and Crimea (which the love of my life, Grigory Potemkin, administered as my Viceroy) became Russian possessions. I also partitioned Poland, after putting my second lover, Stanislaus Poniatowski, on the throne of that country (poor sweetie, he actually didn\u2019t want to be king, imagine that!). Boyfriend#2 On the home front, I tried my best to drag Russia into the modern age. Eighteen years of boredom and loneliness as an unhappily married woman gave me the opportunity to read many books. I imbibed the best ideas of the Aufklarung through the writings of M. Montesquieu (whose ideas I pillaged for the Nakaz , the new legal code that I envisioned for Russia), Mr. John Locke (what is more important than our children\u2019s education, especially our girls?) and Signore Beccaria (torture is barbaric!). I corresponded with the best minds in France, including M. Voltaire (he called me \u201cThe Star of the North\u201d --- such a sweet man!) and M. Diderot, whose work on his Encyclopedie I supported, and whose library I purchased --- on the condition that he got to keep it during his lifetime as I thought that it would be so cruel to separate a scholar from his books. M. Diderot actually visited me in St. Petersburg to express his gratitude, the poor sickly man. Unfortunately, many of these progressive ideas proved to be far too advanced for the country, and I had to reassert my absolute powers as the autocrat of all the Russias to prevent the total collapse of the social order, particularly during the savage Pugachev rebellion. That rough Cossack pretended to be my long dead husband --- what insolence! The Benevolent Despot in action Finally, I must say for myself that as a sovereign I wanted nothing other than what was good for my country, and that I had employed all the powers on my disposal to bring happiness, liberty and prosperity for my subjects. I am aware, however, that I have a number of detractors, who do not hesitate to concoct lies and outright fabrications to sully my good name. They alleged, for example, that the so-called \u201cPotemkin Villages\u201d deceived me during my visit to the Crimea in 1787. My darling Grigory (below --- mwah, mwah!) might have put some fresh paint on some of the settlements that we passed through, but he did not construct whole made-up villages for my benefit. And even if he did, do you think that they could have fooled me, and my whole entourage, which included courtiers, foreign diplomats and even Emperor Joseph II? Boyfriend#5 And as for that unspeakable, much more egregious fabrication--- let us just say that some men were troubled by the fact that there was an accomplished, powerful woman on the throne and would stop at nothing to slander her. Besides, I had had twelve handsome young men at my beck and call --- what would I need a horse for? ...more Like probably every woman of note in history, open about and unashamed of her sexuality, Catherine the Great is primarily remembered as a power- and man-hungry, salacious, perverted woman. Try googling her name and see how high on the list of the results is the ever-pressing question - Did she really sleep with a horse? Does anyone care about her accomplishments in politics, art and science? Not really. But her sexual exploits? Oh, YES! That's why I appreciate <---A>Robert K. Massie</---A> 's Catherine the Gre Like probably every woman of note in history, open about and unashamed of her sexuality, Catherine the Great is primarily remembered as a power- and man-hungry, salacious, perverted woman. Try googling her name and see how high on the list of the results is the ever-pressing question - Did she really sleep with a horse? Does anyone care about her accomplishments in politics, art and science? Not really. But her sexual exploits? Oh, YES! That's why I appreciate Robert K. Massie 's <+++>Catherine the Great: Portrait of a Woman</+++> so much. It is an honest, frank, compassionate account of this superbly intelligent and deeply dedicated to her adoptive country woman's life. As expected from a biography of a monarch, this work is pretty heavy on historical details. I won't lie, I skimmed over a good quarter of the book, not desiring to read much about domestic and foreign policies, wars, legislation and reforms. Thankfully, the details of Catherine's personal life had me glued to the pages of this hefty work. She was brought to Russia at the age of 14, married to a man unable to rid her of her virginity for years (just like Marie Antoinette) and thus encouraged to take a lover and get pregnant by him to finally produce an heir to the Russian throne (which made me think - how many kings, emperors and princes who were assumed to belong to various royal dynasties had actual blood/DNA claim to them? not many methinks), deposed her own husband and usurped the power. And, of course, all those lovers - oh my, 12 in total throughout her life, by Massie's count. Ironically, her husband was not one of the 12. It is easy to sensationalize these facts of Catherine's life and use them to condemn her. But the reality is, most of what she did was motivated by Catherine's desire to serve Russia, be that by producing a very necessary heir when her husband was unable to do so due to psychological or physical issues, or by removing the same incapable husband from the throne. As for the lovers, as a woman of high intellect and high power, Catherine was never able to find a man emotionally, politically and intellectually equal to her. Thus can be explained her \"harem\" of young favorites she settled for in the later years of her life, to quench her loneliness mostly. I finished this biography feeling a lot of respect for Catherine, a progressive, smart, responsible woman. But I felt sad on her behalf too. She might have succeeded as a monarch, but her personal desires of being a mother and having a dedicated life partner were never completely fulfilled. ...more Firstly, to answer your most pressing question regarding Catherine the Great, the Empress of Russia from 1762 to 1796: No, she did not die having sex with a horse. Moreover, if you have an abiding interest in the origins of this rumor, Robert K. Massie\u2019s <+++>Catherine the Great: Portrait of a Woman</+++> will not satiate your deviant interest (it certainly didn't satisfy mine). Massie refuses to engage the slander \u2013 born during her own lifetime \u2013 at any level. Thus, there is not one sentence of horse sex in Firstly, to answer your most pressing question regarding Catherine the Great, the Empress of Russia from 1762 to 1796: No, she did not die having sex with a horse. Moreover, if you have an abiding interest in the origins of this rumor, Robert K. Massie\u2019s Catherine the Great: Portrait of a Woman will not satiate your deviant interest (it certainly didn't satisfy mine). Massie refuses to engage the slander \u2013 born during her own lifetime \u2013 at any level. Thus, there is not one sentence of horse sex in nearly 600 pages of text. Of other sexual encounters, though, there are many. The story of Catherine the Great is filled with sex. There are enough romantic entanglements, sordid liaisons, and passionate affairs to fuel several television seasons on premium cable. There are also dozens of the betrayals, murders, coups, plots and palace secrets that underlie so much of Russia\u2019s imperial history. Massie gives life to them all in a book that balances the literal hugeness of Russia \u2013 a stage 1/8 the size of Earth \u2013 with an intimate, warts-and-all portrayal of her leaders. Born Sophia Augusta Fredericka, a minor German princess, Catherine eventually traveled to Russia to be the wife of Peter III, the future tsar. Her early years in Russia were extremely difficult. She had a volatile relationship with the reigning Russian monarch, Empress Elizabeth, a relationship that actually looks much better in relation to her husband, Peter III, an immature boy of few gifts who treated Catherine horribly. (Massie supports the theory that Peter\u2019s mood, as well as Catherine\u2019s and Peter\u2019s inability to consummate the marriage, stemmed from Peter\u2019s phimosis, a condition marked by a painful tightening of the foreskin). In 1762, Empress Elizabeth died and Peter ascended the throne, where he performed as poorly as expected. Just six months into his rein, an alienated Imperial Guard revolted and proclaimed Catherine the Empress. Seizing the moment, Catherine had her husband arrested; Peter III was killed by Alexei Orlov just eight days later, while imprisoned. (Massie finds no evidence that Catherine was involved in ordering Peter\u2019s death). Catherine reigned until 1796 in a manner best described as the personification of Montesquieu\u2019s \u201cbenevolent despot.\u201d She liked to compare herself to Peter the Great, and she worked to further modernize/Europeanize Russia. She was a patron of the arts and literature; she believed in the value of education; she paid service to enlightenment values and even carried on a lengthy correspondence with Voltaire. During her 34 year reign, she dealt with wars, rebellions, and the fallout of the French Revolution. Despite her dalliances with liberalism, though, she was deeply pragmatic. She made some changes to Russia\u2019s serf laws, but left serfdom \u2013 a pretty way of saying slavery \u2013 firmly in place. Massie tells this sweeping story from the ground, through the eyes of those who lived it. This is first and foremost a story about people. The narrative belies the Tolstoyan view of history as an impersonal force. Instead, it focuses on how history is shaped and shifted by ordinary folks with recognizably human abilities and failings, ambitions and desires. I am a huge fan of Massie\u2019s books, and I have always appreciated this about him. For this same reason, he his disliked by academics and \u201cserious\u201d students of Russia. After all, Massie is a writer, not a researcher. He relies on secondary sources and translations in crafting his books. He does not write scholarly works. For the most part, I think the criticism is generated by Massie\u2019s success. He has amassed an enviable career without ever having to worry about tenure, which certainly must aggravate his critics. But that is not to say that Massie is beyond reproach. Certainly, his lack of facility with primary sources (he uses 4 different translations of Catherine\u2019s Memoirs ) gives me pause. More importantly, I question Massie\u2019s objectivity in dealing with his subjects. He tends to be less a biographer than a booster. This is a failing in all of his books. In Peter the Great , Massie delights in telling of Peter capering about Europe incognito, but glosses over the Tsar\u2019s order to torture his own son. Similarly, in Nicholas and Alexandra , Massie provides an overly-sympathetic portrait of Nicholas as an inherently decent man in over his depth, rather than the anti-Semitic blunderer he actually was. Here, too, Catherine is given the benefit of every doubt. If Massie is required to make a historical judgment call, you can be certain that it will inure to Catherine\u2019s advantage. These concerns, however, are a bit esoteric, and are overwhelmed by the sheer joy of being in the hands of an absurdly good storyteller. Quite simply, Massie is on a very short list of authors who have that rare gift of giving life to history. You finish this book with a sense not only of what these famous people have done, but what these famous people were like. Massie\u2019s writing style is engaging and graceful, if not elegant. Like Robert Caro, he does not simply focus on his subject, but gives ample time to all the people in his subject\u2019s life. As such, Catherine the Great treats the reader to fascinating mini-biographies of Johanna, Catherine\u2019s scheming, petty, small-minded mother; Empress Elizabeth, the mother-in-law from hell; and Gregory Potemkin, the greatest of all Catherine\u2019s lovers, who for many years was the most powerful man in Russia. The result of Massie\u2019s focus on intertwining personalities is a sense of history unfolding as it happens, rather than a discrete event that happened long ago. The larger perspective tends to get lost, but that\u2019s okay. If I have to choose between a more formal and rigid survey of Catherine\u2019s reign or a detailed recounting of the soap operatic machinations of Catherine\u2019s court, I\u2019m choosing the latter. As I said before, this is a book of sex and violence (but no horse sex or horse violence). It provides all the prurient joys of the trashiest novel, yet comes cloaked in the respectability of a weighty tome by a respected author. I don\u2019t know about you, but this is a win-win for me. I\u2019m always on the lookout for a way to satisfy both my lowbrow instincts and my highbrow pretensions. Robert K. Massie\u2019s Catherine the Great does both. ...more Catherine the Great: Portrait of a Woman by Robert K Massie is the extraordinary story of an obscure young German princess who travelled to Russia at the tender age of fourteen and rose to become one of the most powerful, and captivating women in history. I had previously read Massie's Nicholas and Alexandra which was wonderful and I was really interested in reading about Catherine the Great. Massie did extensive research on this book. It is Catherine\u2019s detailed and excellent memoirs and letters f Catherine the Great: Portrait of a Woman by Robert K Massie is the extraordinary story of an obscure young German princess who travelled to Russia at the tender age of fourteen and rose to become one of the most powerful, and captivating women in history. I had previously read Massie's Nicholas and Alexandra which was wonderful and I was really interested in reading about Catherine the Great. Massie did extensive research on this book. It is Catherine\u2019s detailed and excellent memoirs and letters from which Massie quotes liberally which make it possible for him to write such a wonderful detailed portrait of this Woman and her time in history. Mr. Massie writes elegantly and knows how to get the readers attention and I found myself totally invested in this story and its characters. I loved reading this book and really learned so much. I spent a lot of time googing places and palaces in Russia that I was totally side-tracked for much of the novel. I did finish the book feeling some compassion for Catherine and her life at court, but I was stunned at the opulence and behaviour of those within the Russian court. Lovers of history will not be disappointed with this extensively researched and easy to read story that flows from beginning to end. ...more This one was clearly a win for me as a biography of Catherine the Great. Massie's writing is clear, brisk and kept the story moving throughout. What I really enjoyed was how he took the time and trouble to show how Catherine carried forward the reforms begun by Peter the Great, and was a monarch who overcame a great deal of adversity to overcome the obstacles of not being Russian, being a woman, and a usurper to boot -- most biographies focus on her time before becoming empress and/or her lovers This one was clearly a win for me as a biography of Catherine the Great. Massie's writing is clear, brisk and kept the story moving throughout. What I really enjoyed was how he took the time and trouble to show how Catherine carried forward the reforms begun by Peter the Great, and was a monarch who overcame a great deal of adversity to overcome the obstacles of not being Russian, being a woman, and a usurper to boot -- most biographies focus on her time before becoming empress and/or her lovers -- while Massie does look closely at several of them, he also wisely discards the more wild rumours and looks at what Catherine actually did. While I did receive an ARC of this, I still intend to buy a copy of the finished edition. This one gets five stars from me, and a hearty recommendation for anyone interested in Tsarist history. For the longer review, please go here: http://www.mylot.com/post/2913151/rev... ...more I am impressed. Catherine the Great lived from 1729-1796. She was 14 when she first came to Russia, This book covers this entire time period meticulously. I understand how her childhood experiences came to shape her as an adult. I understand her need for love and why she came to have twelve lovers. At the same time she was motivated to seek power. She played a huge role in European history. All of this history is detailed in the book. You meet her as a person and as a leader. Everything one coul I am impressed. Catherine the Great lived from 1729-1796. She was 14 when she first came to Russia, This book covers this entire time period meticulously. I understand how her childhood experiences came to shape her as an adult. I understand her need for love and why she came to have twelve lovers. At the same time she was motivated to seek power. She played a huge role in European history. All of this history is detailed in the book. You meet her as a person and as a leader. Everything one could possibly wish to know about her life is in this book........except gossip that is unsubstantiated. Do yourself a favor - read the book! You will learn a lot and enjoy yourself most of the time. I think every time you reread the book you would enjoy it more. The parts most difficult for me were those where my knowledge is lacking. ************************** Through 45%: The NYT Sunday Book Review has an article on the book this week. Here is the link: http://www.nytimes.com/2011/11/20/boo... I must warn you that there are spoilers. One reason alone to read this book is to laugh at crazy Peter. I mean this guy is so juvenile; it is mind boggling. In to his 20s he plays with toy soldiers in his/their bed. He even has real people marching up and down his room. Marching drills, tight uniforms, whips........ Is he real? Unfortunately - yes! ******************************** At 35%, the beginning of Part IV: I believe this book will appeal to a different group of people than those who appreciated Nicholas and Alexandra . Catherine the Great is a strong, politically minded person. The book does not focus upon a child with hemophilia. Although you do learn details of Catherine's childhood, and it certainly is essential to know these details to understand who she became as an adult, politics must be the central theme of this book. Empress Elizabeth is reaching the end of her life. Catherine, who has never been allowed contact with her children, is now considering her next step toward power. It is power that she seeks. Panin, believing that Peter was unfit to rule and should somehow be removed, wished Paul (Catherine's first child) to be placed on the throne as a boy emperor with Catherine as regent. Catherine pretended to agree with Panin; \"I had rather be the mother than the wife of the emperor,\" she told him. In reality, she had no desire to be subordinated to her own child; her ambition was to occupy the throne herself. (35%) If you are not interested in a woman seeking power and a place on the political stage, perhaps one should look elsewhere. I am curious to know how many stars I will finally give this book on completion. ******************************** I have now read 30% of the book. I am somewhere in Part III. The difficult job of keeping track of who is who is not a problem any more. For me, I get most enjoyment from the book when I am left undisturbed. What I want to mention here is that perhaps you think that the life of the nobility is a piece of cake. Forget that. There is no way you will envy their lives. I do not want to tell you why I say this, because that would be a spoiler. I will give you one example though. Moscow in the 1750s was a city constructed primarily of wooden houses. Sometimes the fancy houses were painted to look like stone. Even the nobility lived in houses of wood. Houses that were cold and infested with vermin. Even the palaces burned. Yes, I think it was in 1753 that the palace where Elizabeth and Peter and Catherine were residing burned. Then they moved to the governess' and governor's house, the house of their arch-enemies, the Choglokovas Only these two were no longer arch-enemies at this point. The description of their residence, that one would assume would be of high quality, is utterly deplorable! During the fire, what is most interesting to observe is what valuables are \"lost/saved\" by each. Elizabeth lost the most - thousands and thousands of dresses. Peter, he was embarrassed when a cabinet was hauled out of his room and it opened with liquor and wine bottles spilling out over the mud. And Catherine? Her pile of books by Voltaire and other such authors - they were saved. The articles most important to each says volumes! The author provides direct quotes from existing diaries. Catherine's birthing experience and the way her child is kept from her are heart wrenching, even considering usual customs of the time. Contact between mother and child was made impossible. Elizabeth had brought Peter and Catherine to Russia. It took years for an heir to be \"produced\"! After that, Catherine and Peter had little significance to Elizabeth. They role was finished, as far as Elizabeth was concerned. I find the book fascinating. Massie's choice of the specific details to include are balanced, descriptive and engaging. ************************************** I have begun part two and am at 15%: At first I liked Empress Elizabeth, but now I despise her. Sophia, now called Catherine after her official conversion to the Orthodox faith, has married Grand Duke Peter Ulrich. Neither she nor her husband were told anything about sex. This is rather ironic given all the hullabaloo and planning behind the wedding! Rather essential bits were skipped! What is shocking is Elizabeth's volatile personality. Fortunately, Catherine is intelligent and is learning quickly. She is only seventeen and completely on her own. In a sense she has always been on her own with so one tor rely on since her birth. Lives are destroyed on the whims of Empress Elizabeth. Let me take this opportunity to give you an excerpt concerning Empress Elizabeth: ...Elizabeth, whose concerns and fears were personal: she feared for the security of her person, her throne, and the future of her branch of the dynasty. In her plans, of course, Catherine, Peter, and their future child were of supreme importance. For this reason over the years ahead, Elizabeth's attitudes toward both the young husband and the young wife oscillated dramatically between affection, concern, disappointment, impatience, frustration and rage. Not only in appearance but also in character, Elizabeth was her parents' child. She was the daughter of Russia's greatest tsar and his peasant wife, who became Empress Catherine I. Elizabeth was tall, like her father, and she resembled him in her energy, ardent temper, and sudden impulsive behavior. Like her mother, she was quickly moved to sympathy and to lavish spontaneous generosity. But her gratitude, like her other qualities, lacked moderation and permanence. (15%) I appreciate how the author summarizes the descriptive incidents previously depicted. The reader is first part of the whirlwind events and then stands back and looks at what these events say about the individuals. I do not think I have properly shown you Elizabeth's character/ Listen to this: To maintain her dazzling preeminence at court, Elizabeth made certain that no other woman present could shine as brightly. Sometimes, this required draconian coercive measures. During the winter of 1747, the empress decreed that all of her ladies-in-waiting must shave their heads and wear black wigs until their hair grew in again. The women wept but obeyed. Catherine assumed that her own turn would come, but to her surprise, she was spared: Elizabeth explained that Catherine's hair was just growing back after an illness. Soon, the reason for the general pruning became known: after a previous festive occasion, Elizabeth and her maids had been unable to brush a heavy powder out of her hair, which became gray, coagulated, and gummy. The only remedy was to have her head shaved. And because she refused to be the only bald woman at court, bushels of hair were cropped. What do you think of her now? I have seen tender moments too. ********************************** I have read 12% of the book. I am somewhere in chapter 11. I have noted that several say that although they enjoy the book, they put it aside and read other lighter books occasionally. I take the opposite approach. I came to a point where the future husband of Sophia, who will later come to be called Catherine, died....... What! I obviously had something confused. The truth is that if you bother to try and understand the different family members and how they are all related, you do need to pay attention. If I had chosen to put the book aside for a while, I would have had to start over from the beginning. My head leaks. Instead I backtracked to the beginning of the chapter and determined that I would sit and pay close attention for at least one hour. No breaks, nothing, just reading. And this did the trick. That was a different Peter, who died! I would not recommend reading this book on a noisy metro, or in a noisy room while the kids are looking at TV. No, read it when you can pay attention, at least in those parts where the complicated family relations are discussed. You run into such sections and then you do need to pay attention. Other sections are not at all as difficult. Or maybe you don't have to pay close attention. What I most enjoy in this book so far is the way the author describes the people in a nuanced manner. Take Empress Elizabeth. She was the daughter of Peter the Great. She did not seek power. She was vivacious and fun loving and had several affairs. But no kids. However there comes a point where either the regent Anna Leopoldovna is going to stick her in a nunnery or she had to fight for the reign. She had no intention of sitting in a nunnery. When she fights to become Empress you are rooting for her. As all people, she had kind, wonderful characteristics and others qualities less admirable. You see all the different sides of her personality. It is the author's ability to show us who the characters really are that I most enjoy. So maybe you can just forget the difficult sections that are hard to follow. That is another approach. You will come to understand Elizabeth and Sophia and her future husband Grand Duke Peter Ulrich. It is important to know of what happened to them in their childhood. They both had very difficult family situations. Wait till you hear of how Sophia's mother, Johanna, treats her daughter. When they leave on a secret trip, in the winter to travel to St. Petersburg absolutely no clothes are bought for Sophia. Johanna spent the money on clothes for herself! Sophia was off to meet her future betrothed with the fewest of garments imaginable. This is just one indication of the horrible mother/ daughter relationship. And Peter, put under the supervision of Br\u00fcmmer. You will be shocked. Peter is not particularly handsome or stable, but you will understand why. He was practically starved to death as punishment for slight misdemeanors. Both Sophia and Peter are starving for kindness. I will not say more, but their lives are very interesting. I have only come to the point where they are betrothed. Peter is still sexually immature, so marriage must be delayed. But the clock is ticking for Elizabeth. There are scenes that will make you laugh - men dressed as women and women as men and dancers falling over each other! All so that Elizabeth can display her shapely legs. Well, read the book and you will understand. So I like the book. Either you see that you are left in peace to understand the sections that are a bit complicated, or you don't worry too much and just enjoy that which is easily engaging. Your choice depends on your own personality. But don't skip the book! So far, I think it is fascinating. ************************************* BEFORE READING: This WILL be available in Kindle format on November 8, 2011!!!!!! YAY! Does fussing help? I have also requested his Peter the Great book on Kindle...... ...more This book is hard to place on a scale. At times, it\u2019s a 5 and other times it\u2019s a 2 or even a 1. After some debating in my head I\u2019m going to give it a 3.5, but it\u2019s not enough to round it up to a 4. This book started off as a 5 and I loved it. The story of Catherine (then Sophia) growing up, being picked as the bride for the heir to the Russian Empire, and her years spent in Russia was great. Massie interspaced entries from her own memoirs into these years and it really added a great personal fla This book is hard to place on a scale. At times, it\u2019s a 5 and other times it\u2019s a 2 or even a 1. After some debating in my head I\u2019m going to give it a 3.5, but it\u2019s not enough to round it up to a 4. This book started off as a 5 and I loved it. The story of Catherine (then Sophia) growing up, being picked as the bride for the heir to the Russian Empire, and her years spent in Russia was great. Massie interspaced entries from her own memoirs into these years and it really added a great personal flavor to the history. Granted I didn\u2019t know that story going into this book but it\u2019s a very interesting look at a girl getting out from under her family and turning into a strong woman. Then Catherine becomes Empress and the book takes a huge nose-dive. Just when I thought it was going to really get interesting. Instead of continuing the solid chronological narrative, the author suddenly decides to tackle broad topics related to Catherine\u2019s reign \u2013 her legal code book, her various lovers, Poland, philosophy, art etc. All important things to her rule but it\u2019s a very jarring switch. Plus he bounces around in the timeline until I have no real sense of when these things are happening. The cr\u00e8me de la cr\u00e8me occurs when suddenly there\u2019s a chapter on the French revolution and the death penalty. The author eventually jumps back towards a chronological narrative but he never recovers the strength of the beginning. There\u2019s still a lot of year jumping so that it feels like you learn about something only to go back in time and build the years up to it. Not the smoothest read for sure and while I was more interesting in the historical events, I never felt like I got a solid look at Catherine\u2019s full reign as Empress. Before you know it, Catherine is an old woman. Like I really had a holy shit moment of why is her health failing suddenly?! What do you mean she\u2019s in her 60s and her grandson is like 17 and people think she wants him to be heir?! HE WAS JUST BORN?! Then she\u2019s gone and that\u2019s the book. I really could have used a legacy chapter here or even a little bit of what happened next to the family. Honestly I think Massie tried to tackle too much in one book. It\u2019s understandable given her amazing life and the interesting journey she took to the Russian throne. It was definitely a 5 star read for me. I wish he would have sorted out her life as Empress and folded broad issue topics into the narrative as they occurred as a second book. I can recommend the first part of this book. If you want to learn about Catherine pre-Empress, it is definitely an intriguing story. Just don\u2019t expect to be too excited about her life as Empress. ...more \"She sat on the throne of Peter the Great and ruled an empire, the largest on earth. Her signature, inscribed on a decree, was law and, if she chose, could mean life or death for any one of her twenty million subjects. She was intelligent, well-read, and a shrewd judge of character. During the coup, she had shown determination and courage; once on the throne, she displayed an open mind, willingness to forgive, and a political morality founded on rationality and practical efficiency. She softened \"She sat on the throne of Peter the Great and ruled an empire, the largest on earth. Her signature, inscribed on a decree, was law and, if she chose, could mean life or death for any one of her twenty million subjects. She was intelligent, well-read, and a shrewd judge of character. During the coup, she had shown determination and courage; once on the throne, she displayed an open mind, willingness to forgive, and a political morality founded on rationality and practical efficiency. She softened imperial presence with a sense of humor and a quick tongue; indeed, with Catherine more than any other monarch of her day, there was always a wide latitude for humor. There was also a line not to be crossed, even by close friends.\" I knew almost nothing about Catherine the Great before reading this book. Now that I've finished it, all I say is damn , this lady was impressive. It would have been easy for this book to be a never-ending litany of reasons Catherine's life sucked, but even as Massie details all the tragic aspects of Catherine's life, we never get the sense that we should feel too sad, because her personal strength and character shine through clearly, no matter what hell she happens to be going through at the time. And she went through a lot of shit in her lifetime. Catherine was fourteen when she was brought to Russia to marry the nephew of the Empress Elizabeth, who was unmarried and, despite numerous affairs throughout her reign, didn't have a child of her own to be her heir. So she brought Peter of Holstein to Russia at the age of fourteen to make him her heir instead, and Catherine was shipped over (that's the most accurate way to describe it) in a hurry so they could get married and Elizabeth could officially make Peter her successor. Due mostly to the fact that he'd been uprooted from his home and controlled by sadistic tutors for most of his life, Peter was an unpleasant little shit, and he and Catherine disliked each other. It didn't help either that they didn't have sex for nine years after their marriage (shades of Marie Antoinette), or that Elizabeth was intensely protective of Peter and had Catherine spied on every waking minute, even going so far as to dismiss any servants that Catherine got too friendly with. When Catherine finally had her first child (the father was almost certainly not her husband), Elizabeth had the child taken to her own rooms the second it was born. Catherine didn't see her newborn son for an entire week after giving birth to him, and after that she was barely allowed to see him. So it's understandable that as soon as Elizabeth died and Peter got the throne, Catherine put up with that for about five minutes, and then it was coup d'etat o'clock. (or, more accurately, her friends in the military were like, \"Hey Catherine, if you feel like overthrowing your lame husband we'll totally back you up\" and she was like, \"Might as well. Fetch my Usurping Gown.\") Once Catherine becomes empress, everything gets awesome. Massie's book may portray her in an overly-glowing light, but as far as I can tell, Catherine was an ideal ruler. She worked from six am to ten pm, often went days without sleeping or eating, and genuinely wanted the best for her people. She spent months organizing and revising a codex of laws, expanded the empire, improved hospitals and medical practices in the country, and tried to abolish serfdom (all while maintaining affairs with a succession of handsome and charming men, all of whom were in their mid-twenties even when Catherine was in her fifties. Get it, girl). She made permanent improvements to Russia and its people, and it's easy to forget that she technically stole her throne, and wasn't even born Russian. She was a complex, utterly-competent woman who managed to take a terrible situation and make it awesome , and then become one of the greatest women in history. Comparisons to Elizabeth I are inevitable, and thankfully Massie avoids them almost entirely. This book could have easily dissolved into \"here's why Catherine was similar to Elizabeth and other famous female rulers, and here's why they were different, etc\", and I was very glad that Massie didn't take the book in that direction. Other historical figures come and go here (such as Louis XVI, Voltaire, and even the founder of the US Navy John Paul Jones), but, minus one over-long detour into the French Revolution, Catherine always remains the center of the book's focus. As she should be. She's certainly earned it. ...more This engaging and well-researched historical tome about one of Russia\u2019s greatest rulers merits 4 full stars. Apart from painting a memorable and respectable portrait of the dramatic life of Catherine the Great, the book also accounts succinctly for the labyrinth of European/Eurasian politics at play in the 18th century, and depicts Russia\u2019s participation in the Seven Years\u2019 War, its carving up of Poland, its two major Wars with Turkey and its putting down the Pugachev Rebellion. As a child German This engaging and well-researched historical tome about one of Russia\u2019s greatest rulers merits 4 full stars. Apart from painting a memorable and respectable portrait of the dramatic life of Catherine the Great, the book also accounts succinctly for the labyrinth of European/Eurasian politics at play in the 18th century, and depicts Russia\u2019s participation in the Seven Years\u2019 War, its carving up of Poland, its two major Wars with Turkey and its putting down the Pugachev Rebellion. As a child German princess, Catherine II was inspired by her Huguenot Frenchwoman tutor to develop a \u201cpermanent love of the French language, with all its possibilities for logic, subtlety, wit and liveliness in writing and conversation\u201d. As a Russian grand duchess and later Empress, she came under the influence of great French philosophers and writers like Bayle, Voltaire, Diderot and Montesquieu, and became the life-long friend of Friedrich Melchior Grimm. Hence her guiding rules for governance were fundamentally based on Enlightenment principles, although she always kept up the appearance of being a devout Orthodox Christian since her conversion from Lutheranism at the time of her marriage to Peter III at the age of fifteen. Despite her sincere attempt to end centuries-old serfdom in Russia, stiff opposition from the deeply entrenched landed nobility, especially those who had a hand in putting her on the throne, meant that her hands were tied. But her summoning the Legislative Commission in 1767 to debate on social issues raised in her carefully crafted \u201cNakaz\u201d (a political treatise) showed that she was truly willing to listen to opinions of her subjects about social reforms. Her personal life was marked by frustration and misery in the first nine years of her marriage. Then after the death of Empress Elizabeth, a twist of fate catapulted her to the zenithal position. Delight, love and career pursuits, success and material opulence decorated her mid-life. After the death of the love of her life, her trusted partner and best friend \u2013 Gregory Potemkin \u2013 in 1791, she never quite recovered from her grief. It is interesting to note that the term \u201cPotemkin village\u201d, with its sarcastic undertone which is meant to mock something that\u2019s sham or fraudulent, is actually unjustly attributed to Gregory Potemkin and ungrounded in truth in its common usage. As Massie points out, when Potemkin showed Catherine his great achievements in the form of newly built ports, villages and naval bases in the Crimean peninsula, there were other eyewitnesses \u2013 the ambassadors from England and France \u2013 who were just as amazed as Catherine on seeing the spectacular new buildings and infrastructure, which couldn\u2019t have been cardboard displays. ...more This is a beautiful and very readable biography of one of the most fascinating and influential women in history. The author did not limit his book to Catherine\u2019s story nor to her family and the Russian imperial line but included many important figures from the Russian political world and the wider European courts and culture (for example wonderful cameos of Voltaire and Diderot). In this way, Massie successfully provides a 360 degree view of historical period in which Catherine lived and an enjo This is a beautiful and very readable biography of one of the most fascinating and influential women in history. The author did not limit his book to Catherine\u2019s story nor to her family and the Russian imperial line but included many important figures from the Russian political world and the wider European courts and culture (for example wonderful cameos of Voltaire and Diderot). In this way, Massie successfully provides a 360 degree view of historical period in which Catherine lived and an enjoyable introduction to the main players and events in 18th century European history. Without losing his focus on Catherine\u2019s biography (with perhaps the exception of the description of French revolution in which Catherine declined to directly intervene and where the author indulged in a detailed description the use of the guillotine), Massie describes very well the Russian internal situation and its social structure, her relationship with the Orthodox Church, the caste system and the plight of the serfs were particularly interesting to me. Highly recommended, this book deserves a full 5 shining stars rating (The book has even maps!) Memo to self, Massie mentions an interesting story between a Russian aristocrat and his serf celebrity, read The Pearl: A True Tale of Forbidden Love in Catherine the Great's Russia . Fav. Quotes: My natural pride made the idea of being miserable intolerable to me. I used to say to myself that happiness and misery depend on ourselves. If you feel unhappy, rise above it and act so that your happiness may be independent of all outside events. \u201cMonsieur Diderot,\u201d she finally said to him, I have listened with the greatest pleasure to all the inspirations of your brilliant mind. But all your grand principles, which I understand very well, would do splendidly in books and very badly in practice. In your plans for reform, you are forgetting the difference between our two positions: you work only on paper which accepts anything, is smooth and flexible and offers no obstacles either to your imagination or your pen, while I, poor empress, work on human skin, which is far more sensitive and touchy. She was the heavily burdened ruler of a great empire as well as a proud and passionate woman, and she had neither time nor inclination to explain or quibble. She was lonely and she needed a partner, someone with whom to share not power but conversation, laughter, and human warmth. Therein lay one of the problems confronting her: the love of power and the power to attract love were not easy to reconcile. ...more Maybe this book is very excellent at what it wanted to be, but I wanted it to be something different. I wanted a history book. 1) In trying to be accessible, the prose comes off as simplistic at times. 2) A quibble is the repetition of statements from only a few chapters prior. Those statements do help set the scene for the current action, but are sometimes overdone and unnecessary if the reader had been paying any attention at all to what was just recently covered. 3) At one point in the book tow Maybe this book is very excellent at what it wanted to be, but I wanted it to be something different. I wanted a history book. 1) In trying to be accessible, the prose comes off as simplistic at times. 2) A quibble is the repetition of statements from only a few chapters prior. Those statements do help set the scene for the current action, but are sometimes overdone and unnecessary if the reader had been paying any attention at all to what was just recently covered. 3) At one point in the book towards the back, Massie gets into personal musings about the death penalty that have zero bearing on the topic (in my view), and 4) tries to squash in a wide variety of topics that could better have been covered as we went along through the narrative. In short, the back eighth seems to contain a collection of afterthoughts. 5) My final complaint is the amount of text spent upon the emotional trivia of love affairs, the clothing worn, the \"rich and famous\" approach that pops up throughout the text. In places I think I am reading about the sumptuous gowns worn by the Kardashians and how drunk they all got one night. Massie cheapens his subject a bit too much for my taste in places. On the upside... 1) He did paint a portrait of Catherine with humanity and dimension. 2) The portrayal of Potemkin and his achievements was quite interesting, along with the exceptional tour that was put on to view it all. 3) Some, though not heavy, coverage was given to the foreign policy issues of the day. I wish badly that this area had been given much more complete treatment. Overall, I am a bit disappointed that a book by a well-known writer must be written to this mediocre standard. Maybe that says more about us than it does about him. ...more his the biography of Catherine the Great written by Robert K. Massie. In reality, her birthday\u2019s name was Sophie Friederike Auguste von Anhalt-Zerbst-Dornburg. Her father, Christian August, Prince of Anhalt-Zerbst was a German prince of the House of Ascania. He was a ruler of the Principality of Anhalt-Dornburg. Her mother, Joanna Elisabeth of Holstein-Gottorp was a princess of the House of Holstein-Gottorp and later the Princess of Anhalt-Zerbst. By being born in Stettin - a small principality call his the biography of Catherine the Great written by Robert K. Massie. In reality, her birthday\u2019s name was Sophie Friederike Auguste von Anhalt-Zerbst-Dornburg. Her father, Christian August, Prince of Anhalt-Zerbst was a German prince of the House of Ascania. He was a ruler of the Principality of Anhalt-Dornburg. Her mother, Joanna Elisabeth of Holstein-Gottorp was a princess of the House of Holstein-Gottorp and later the Princess of Anhalt-Zerbst. By being born in Stettin - a small principality called Anhalt-Zebst, she started out as a German princess. Since Sophia was not the favorite child of her parents, she saw marriage as a way to escape from her faith. The Russian came up in Sophia\u2019s life one he mother accepted an invitation to St. Petersburg from the Empress Elizabeth who was looking for a suitable wife for her heir, Grand Duke Peter, later called as Petter II. Catherine was persecuted by Empress Elizabeth for several years since she wanted an heir for the Russian throne quite soon. On the other hand, Catherine\u2019s marriage\u2019s was not an easy task since her husband suffered from phimosis. Catherine became Catherine II after a Coup d\u2019etat and the assassination of her husband at the end of the Seven Years\u2019 War. By consequence, Catherine had several lovers along her life, such as: Sergei Saltykov , the supposed Paul\u2019s father; Stanislaus Poniatowski ; Grigory Grigoryevich Orlov ; Alexander Vasilchikov ; Grigory Potemkin and others. Catherine reign was called Russia\u2019s golden age. The Manifesto on Freedom of the Nobility freed the Russian nobility from compulsory military service. Under Voltaire\u2019s influence, she was in charge of the Russian Enlightenment: she founded the Hermitage Museum as well as the National Library of Russia. She lived in the magnificent and beautiful Tsarskoye Selo was the summer residence of the Russian Tsars. When Catherine died, her successor and son Paul I became the Emperor of Russia between 1796 and 1801. Catherine was buried at Peter and Paul Cathedral for 34 years. A movie was made based on Catherine\u2019s life: Catherine the Great (1996) with Catherine Zeta-Jones, Paul McGann, Ian Richardson. Russian Channel One is preparing a lavishly epic historical series CATHERINE THE GREAT with Yulia Snigir playing the legendary Russian tzarina. ...more Historical Fictionistas Group Read starting 1Feb15! Started reading this in February, got roughly 30 pages in and put it down... Found the audio through my library and I'm SO GLAD I did, otherwise I might never have finished this. Not because it's boring, but because the research is simply EXHAUSTIVE. If you're interested in Russian history, I highly recommend this book. It's my first Massie book but I have two more waiting at home (thankfully shorter than this one). He presents history from all Historical Fictionistas Group Read starting 1Feb15! Started reading this in February, got roughly 30 pages in and put it down... Found the audio through my library and I'm SO GLAD I did, otherwise I might never have finished this. Not because it's boring, but because the research is simply EXHAUSTIVE. If you're interested in Russian history, I highly recommend this book. It's my first Massie book but I have two more waiting at home (thankfully shorter than this one). He presents history from all angles-- you get to see Catherine through her own memoirs and the writings of others around her throughout her life. Every page makes clear how much research went into this book, and if this is so well-written I can only imagine how incredible his Pulitzer-winning book on Peter the Great is. Before this book, the majority of what I knew of Russian history included Nicholas II's family (I've been obsessed with them since I first saw Anastasia as a child), the Bolsheviks, serfdom, and names like Peter the Great, Catherine the Great, and Ivan the Terrible. Just because I knew their names didn't mean I necessarily knew anything about them. Having finished this, I can happily say that I know much more about Catherine's life and reign than I did after my European History class in high school. Again, I remember her name cropping up but I don't recall learning a whole lot aside from the whole serf thing. It seemed to peter out (haha) toward the end a bit, probably because I have little interest in government and zoned out here and there because I was just ready to be DONE, but overall this was a fascinating book. As mentioned in my updates, I had no idea Catherine was so connected with people like Voltaire and Diderot, nor was I familiar with the circumstances that led to her reign. It was so refreshing to learn as I listened, and reminded me how much I like biographies. Kudos, Mr Massie. Portrait of a Woman, indeed. ...more Sophia, daughter of humble Prince Augustus of Anhalt-Zerbst, Prussia, spends an lonely childhood, unloved by a scheming mother, recommended by Frederick the Great and subsequently summoned to Russia by Empress Elizabeth, married to the heir Peter III (also a German) who would not consummate the marriage for 9 years, produces an heir to the throne (just who is the father?), then relegated to the background, eventually forces her unbalanced husband to abdicate while she assumes the throne of Russi Sophia, daughter of humble Prince Augustus of Anhalt-Zerbst, Prussia, spends an lonely childhood, unloved by a scheming mother, recommended by Frederick the Great and subsequently summoned to Russia by Empress Elizabeth, married to the heir Peter III (also a German) who would not consummate the marriage for 9 years, produces an heir to the throne (just who is the father?), then relegated to the background, eventually forces her unbalanced husband to abdicate while she assumes the throne of Russia, tries to add on to Peter the Great\u2019s work by bringing enlightenment to the backward nation, has 12 different \u201cfavorites\u201d and possibly married one (Potemkin), fights wars, adds great swathes of territory to the west and south to the Russian Empire, became one of the great art collectors of the time and was more Russian than many natural born Russians. Whew, that\u2019s the story. Basically she ruled like a girl\u2026a very accomplished, brilliant and amazing one. I\u2019m happy to give this one 5 Stars . In most cases, I don\u2019t give 2 cents for any \u201croyal\u201d or \u201cnoble\u201d, an accident of birth that grates on my \u201cmurican\u201d sense that all are created equal with equal opportunity to rise. But sometimes a royal stands out and Catherine stands atop a small group of notable nobles. This book gives a detailed account of her life before Russia and after she is brought to St Petersburg. My one complaint is that the book is so intensely focused on Catherine and the Russian court. You do not get the European big picture with Frederick the Great and the Seven Years War, Maria Theresa of Austria and all the major events. After Catherine takes the throne, you get a better picture of her internal and external struggles. Catherine started out as quite the enlightened monarch but later, especially after the Pugachev Revolt, she pulls back to harsher autocratic rule. Yet she resists cruelty when other of her station have no problem with harsh treatment or torture. Her relationship with men in her life forms a major thread throughout. She was always looking for love and also for a companion who could be her equal intellectually. Potemkin seems to be the only one to meet that need\u2026and yet they can\u2019t live together. Mainly because of his being a jerk. Yet he is a fascinating character and Catherine relies on him heavily. Overall, a fascinating look at a towering figure. The book moves along quickly and you won\u2019t be bored if you have any interest in Russian history. Also pertinent to today as you will see how important the Ukraine is to the Russian story. Much of the Ukraine and former Poland becomes Russian in her reign. I would also recommend you read these books about the same period to get a better feel for the wider world Catherine the Great faced: The Great Upheaval: America and the Birth of the Modern World, 1788-1800 Frederick the Great: The Magnificent Enigma ...more I wish Robert Massie had written this book before my trip to Russia in 2008. One thing I was looking forward to seeing on that trip was Catherine\u2019s Palace and The Amber Room. Of course, I also visited The Hermitage and between these settings, I did get to see some the incredible art collection that Catherine amassed during her reign. Ah, but there is so much more to this woman. Robert K. Massie certainly delivers on the subtitle of his book: The Portrait of a Woman particularly in the opening ch I wish Robert Massie had written this book before my trip to Russia in 2008. One thing I was looking forward to seeing on that trip was Catherine\u2019s Palace and The Amber Room. Of course, I also visited The Hermitage and between these settings, I did get to see some the incredible art collection that Catherine amassed during her reign. Ah, but there is so much more to this woman. Robert K. Massie certainly delivers on the subtitle of his book: The Portrait of a Woman particularly in the opening chapters where he gives us background on her journey from Germany to Russia as Empress Elizabeth seeks a wife for Peter III and an heir to the throne. The politics of country and church, the wars between this country and that, are not always easy for me to follow but Massie\u2019s narrative non-fiction make for a comfortable read. I learned just enough to give me a basic understanding of this time in history. This was a book group choice and I started the discussion by asking if there was anything that surprised each reader about Catherine, if there was something they didn\u2019t know before reading the book. It seemed a given that most of us had not known of Catherine\u2019s many lovers, but other accomplishments were not as well known; her relationships with the Russian Orthodox Church, her agility as a horsewoman, her keen mind and ability to write, and her understanding of what it took to be a leader. I hadn\u2019t realized that she was the first person in Russia to be inoculated for small pox, insisting that it be she rather than one of her court or subjects. I was greatly impressed by this. Her vision to see medicine move forward by supporting doctors and hospitals, her humanity to unwed mothers, and her devotion to the arts were also high on her list of achievements. We all were amazed that Catherine, German, not in line for the crown, a woman, with the turmoil of the times, managed to rule for over 30 years and as a whole was well liked. We wondered at how it must have been to leave your country, never see your father again, be refused the right to correspond with your family, have your first child virtually pulled out of your arms, habitat the same bed for nine years with a man (boy) who wouldn\u2019t even touch you, have superior intelligence to your husband, balance all the lovers, have few women friends, and still manage to stay on top. I think if I had it to do over again, I\u2019d read Massie\u2019s Pulitzer Prize winning Peter the Great first as I\u2019d like to understand how Peter\u2019s style of running his country meshed with Catherine\u2019s philosophies. A compelling read! ...more \u0436\u0438\u0440\u0438\u0439\u043d \u043d\u044d\u0433\u044d\u043d \u0433\u0435\u0440\u043c\u0430\u043d \u043e\u0445\u0438\u043d \u041e\u0440\u043e\u0441\u044b\u043d \u0445\u0430\u0442\u0430\u043d \u0445\u0430\u0430\u043d \u0431\u043e\u043b\u0441\u043e\u043d, \u0431\u043e\u043b\u043e\u0445 \u0431\u043e\u043b\u043e\u0445\u0434\u043e\u043e \u0430\u043b\u0434\u0430\u0440 \u0446\u0443\u0443\u0433\u0430\u0430 \u043c\u0430\u043d\u0434\u0443\u0443\u043b\u0441\u0430\u043d \u041e\u0440\u043e\u0441 \u043e\u0440\u043d\u044b\u0433 \u043d\u0438\u0439\u0433\u044d\u043c, \u0441\u043e\u0451\u043b\u044b\u043d \u0445\u04e9\u0433\u0436\u043b\u0438\u0439\u043d \u0448\u0438\u043d\u044d \u0448\u0430\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0434 \u0430\u0432\u0447\u0438\u0440\u0441\u0430\u043d \u0441\u043e\u043d\u0438\u0440\u0445\u043e\u043b\u0442\u043e\u0439 \u0442\u04af\u04af\u0445. \u042d\u043d\u044d \u043d\u0430\u043c\u0442\u0440\u044b\u0433 \u041e\u0440\u043e\u0441\u044b\u043d \u0442\u04af\u04af\u0445, \u0430\u043b\u0434\u0430\u0440\u0442\u0430\u0439 \u0445\u0430\u0430\u0434 \u043d\u043e\u0451\u0434\u044b\u043d \u0442\u04af\u04af\u0445\u044d\u044d\u0440 \u0434\u0430\u0433\u043d\u0430\u043d \u0431\u0438\u0447\u0434\u044d\u0433 \u041f\u0443\u043b\u0438\u0442\u0446\u0435\u0440\u044b\u043d \u0448\u0430\u0433\u043d\u0430\u043b \u0431\u04af\u0445\u0438\u0439 \u0437\u043e\u0445\u0438\u043e\u043b\u0447 \u0420\u043e\u0431\u0435\u0440\u0442 \u041c\u0430\u0441\u0441\u0438 \u0431\u0438\u0447\u0436\u044d\u044d. http://saixan.blogspot.com/2017/01/ca... Mr Massie has again brought one of the members of the ruling dynasty of Russia to life. He draws a complex picture of the woman who became known as Catherine the Great. She however resisted using the term Great and preferred to referred to as Catherine II. Massie starts his narrative with Catherine \u2013 then known as Sofia, a minor German princess, and the maneuverings of her mother to get her married off. She ends up traveling with her mother to the court of Elizabeth of Russia as a potential bride Mr Massie has again brought one of the members of the ruling dynasty of Russia to life. He draws a complex picture of the woman who became known as Catherine the Great. She however resisted using the term Great and preferred to referred to as Catherine II. Massie starts his narrative with Catherine \u2013 then known as Sofia, a minor German princess, and the maneuverings of her mother to get her married off. She ends up traveling with her mother to the court of Elizabeth of Russia as a potential bride for her successor and nephew. She is chosen and weds the Crown Prince of Russia \u2013 who is as German as she is. The first half of the book leans heavily on Catherine\u2019s own journals and in some ways overdoses us on the details of daily life. At the same time the portrait Massie paints is fascinating. He paints a picture of a na\u00efve you girl who grows into one of the most powerful women of the last half of the 18th century. In addition to the personal, Mr. Massie looks at the politics of Catherine\u2019s reign - her wars with the Ottoman Empire, the rivalry with Prussia and Frederick the Great, the alliance with Austria. ON the domestic policy arena, he covers her attempts to reform and modernize the laws of Russia, including those dealing with serfdom. Massie also looks at the people she kept up correspondence with, including leading figures of the enlightenment, Voltaire and Diderot. She attempted to put into practice some of their theories, but opposition from her Nobles and her reaction to the French Revolution but an end to many of the reforms. Mr Massie also comments on the rumors surrounding her sexuality. He presents a woman who was probably a serial monogamist. Her marriage was unconsummated for at least 9 yrs. And when the people surrounding her realized that she had taken a lover, made sure her husband performed his husbandly duties (at least for a while). The paternity of her first child and successor can never be proven, but he physically did resemble her husband and not her lover at the time. As far as the other rumors are concerned, Mr. Massie basically says, nothing about what happened behind the closed bedroom door was written down, so we can never know. This is a very good companion to his other looks at the Romanov Dynasty and I highly recommend it. ...more Massie's research into the life of Catherine II is extensive (for example, he used three different translations of her Memoirs) and wide-ranging and the writing style is engaging enough to almost make one forget this is a nearly 600 page book (it's the weight that gives it away). While I knew something about her life, there was much I hadn't and was fascinated to learn. I knew she was a German princess, but not that it was of some small, unimportant state. I knew she and her mother didn't get alo Massie's research into the life of Catherine II is extensive (for example, he used three different translations of her Memoirs) and wide-ranging and the writing style is engaging enough to almost make one forget this is a nearly 600 page book (it's the weight that gives it away). While I knew something about her life, there was much I hadn't and was fascinated to learn. I knew she was a German princess, but not that it was of some small, unimportant state. I knew she and her mother didn't get along, but not the extent of the difficulties. Etc. Intertwined with her story is that of those around her, so we meet people like Empress Elizabeth and Voltaire and Potemkin fully-fleshed out rather than as sketches. Several rumors are debunked here, like the one about the Potemkin Village (Massie states that those that talked about them weren't on her trip down the Dnieper, and those that were on the trip never mentioned anything amiss - even those representatives of foreign governments who would certainly have done so had there been fakery). Nothing about horses, however, except that she didn't like to ride sidesaddle. I really wanted this to be a solid 5, but... I just couldn't do it. The missing star is due to four factors: one, there were phrases that were used again and again to describe people (eg, virtually every time an Orlov is mentioned, we hear again that she owes her throne to them); two, there's an entirely unnecessary chapter devoted to the intricacies of the French Revolution (which is interesting in itself, but goes into detail not needed for a book about Catherine); three, there were pieces that I felt were missing, as when she is persuaded that Lutheranism and Russian Orthodoxy are \"virtually the same\", yet many readers may not understand the depth of the differences between the two; and four, while mentioning many times that Gregory Orlov was \"the father of her son, Bobrinskoy\" we never actually learn what happened to his child. Having read his Nicholas and Alexandra , I now think I'll try to find Peter the Great ! ...more I was surprised how interesting I found this book to be. I had no particular interest in Catherine the Great and the only reason I read it was to reinforce my knowledge of history in preparation for a trip to Europe to trace the route of my wife\u2019s ancestors' migrations. Their movements included a number of years in both southern Poland and Ukraine, both regions are within the sphere of influence of Catherine\u2019s Russian Empire. Since I didn\u2019t know that much about Catherine, I was easily surprised I was surprised how interesting I found this book to be. I had no particular interest in Catherine the Great and the only reason I read it was to reinforce my knowledge of history in preparation for a trip to Europe to trace the route of my wife\u2019s ancestors' migrations. Their movements included a number of years in both southern Poland and Ukraine, both regions are within the sphere of influence of Catherine\u2019s Russian Empire. Since I didn\u2019t know that much about Catherine, I was easily surprised by new information about her. First of all I was surprised to learn the Catherine wasn\u2019t Russian. She was a low level German princess imported for the purposes of bearing a child. Her husband (Peter III) was so clearly unfit that after six months of his rule Catherine led a successful coup to displace her husband as supreme ruler of Russia. It\u2019s interesting to speculate how it\u2019s possible for outsiders such as Catherine to achieve high positions of power. Other examples that come to mind are Napoleon (Corsican not French), Hitler (Austrian not German), Stalin (Georgian not Russian), and Nikita Khrushchev (Ukrainian not Russian). In Catherine\u2019s case she was blessed (cursed?) with a clearly incompetent and unpopular husband that gave her the opportunity to seize power in the first place. However, once she was in possession of power she knew that it was important to rule wisely in order to maintain the support of the Russian nobles. She is generally acknowledged by most historians to have been an enlightened despot who ruled wisely. I knew Catherine was rumored to have a large appetite for sex. Of course, the most outrageous stories are NOT true. However, I was surprised how well her succession of lovers is documented. She made no effort to keep these relationships secret. There is a surviving note to Potemkin written in her handwriting in which she lists all men with whom she previously had had sexual relations. This must surely be unique documentation on such a personal subject for a royal personage of that era. This book says she had twelve \u201cfavorites\u201d during her 34 year reign as Empress. She never publically married any of her lovers. However, this book indicates that there are reasons to believe that she may have secretly married Potemkin. The term \u201cPotemkin villages\u201d has become a widely recognized descriptive expression for something that is fake and has artificially been made to look better than it really is. It is based on the rumor that Potemkin built fake settlements of hollow facades to fool Empress Catherine during her tour of newly conquered territories and the Crimea. This book indicates that there is no documentation to support these rumors and that they were probably started by enemies of Potemkin. There was no mention in this book of Catherine inviting German settlers to move into the newly conquered regions of the Ukraine to help develop the area. That would have been of interest to me because my wife\u2019s ancestors were among those settlers. (Actually, their move to Ukraine came later than Catherine's reign.) The following short review is from the PageADay Book Lover's Calendar for January 1, 2014: Why not start the New Year with someone who really knew how to get things done? You can't help but admire a minor German princess who managed to turn herself into the Empress of Russia. Certainly she experienced her share of shocking trials and tribulations along the way -- and there are enough of them here to give this brilliant history the feel of a juicy tell-all -- but no matter what, she always came roaring back. They didn't call her Catherine the Great for nothing. Catherine the Great: Portrait of a Woman , by Robert K. Massie (Random House, 2011) ...more \u2018She sat on the throne of Peter the Great and ruled an empire, the largest on earth.\u2019 Sophia Augusta Fredericka of Anhalt-Zerbst was born into a minor German noble family on 21 April 1729. Sophia was brought to Russia as a teenager, converted to Orthodoxy, renamed Catherine, and married off by the Empress Elizabeth Petrovna to her nephew and heir Peter. As Catherine II, she was Empress of Russia from 28 June 1762 until her death on 6 November 1796. She came to power following a coup d'\u00e9tat and th \u2018She sat on the throne of Peter the Great and ruled an empire, the largest on earth.\u2019 Sophia Augusta Fredericka of Anhalt-Zerbst was born into a minor German noble family on 21 April 1729. Sophia was brought to Russia as a teenager, converted to Orthodoxy, renamed Catherine, and married off by the Empress Elizabeth Petrovna to her nephew and heir Peter. As Catherine II, she was Empress of Russia from 28 June 1762 until her death on 6 November 1796. She came to power following a coup d'\u00e9tat and the assassination of her husband, Peter III, and her reign is often considered the Golden Age of the Russian Empire. This was a period when the Russian Empire was expanding rapidly through both conquest and diplomacy. In the south, the Crimean Khanate was crushed following Russian victories over the Ottoman Empire, and Russia colonised territory along the coasts of the Azov and Black Seas. In the west, the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth was eventually partitioned between Austria, Prussia and Russia with Russia gaining the largest share. Catherine often relied on her noble favourites, most notably Grigory Orlov (whose brother Alexei Grigoryevich Orlov's victory at Chesme Bay in June 1770 gave Russia a foothold in the Black Sea) and Grigory Potemkin (governor of Russia's new southern provinces and responsible for the annexation of the Crimea). Catherine presided over the age of the Russian enlightenment, founding the Smolny Institute in 1764 (the first state-financed higher education institution for women in Europe), corresponded with Denis Diderot and Voltaire, and ruled as an enlightened despot. `She was a majestic figure in the age of monarchy; the only woman to equal her on a European throne was Elizabeth I of England. In the history of Russia, she and Peter the Great tower in ability and achievement over the other 14 tsars and empresses of the three hundred year Romanov dynasty.' The history of this period makes for fascinating reading: 18th century geopolitics were complex and Mr Massie presents detailed information clearly. Catherine herself is presented sympathetically by Mr Massie: a child neglected by her mother; a wife ignored by her husband; a highly intelligent woman who had platonic relationships with thinkers like Diderot and Voltaire, and physical relationships with a number of different noble favourites some of whom fathered her children. This is both a detailed biography of Catherine the Great and a detailed history of Europe's 18th century, and while it wasn't always easy to read I found it absorbing. At times, I found myself admiring Catherine and sympathizing with her. At other times I found her actions at deplorable. She could be both courageous, and insensitive. She was definitely, though, fascinating. The woman who `became the greatest collector and patron of art in the history of Europe' was interested in public health, was inoculated against smallpox and was also an insensitive mother. Jennifer Cameron-Smith ...more 3.5 I want to give this four stars, but I can't. Not even rounding up can I. That being said, it's not a bad book at all. I knew next to nothing about Catherine the Great besides that she overthrew her husband and had him assassinated, then also had a ton of lovers. That's it. I didn't even know about the whole horse rumor, which still is... weird. Where they got that rumor from, who knows. I learned so much about her, and also about Russia. The most I knew about Russia is focused around the last R 3.5 I want to give this four stars, but I can't. Not even rounding up can I. That being said, it's not a bad book at all. I knew next to nothing about Catherine the Great besides that she overthrew her husband and had him assassinated, then also had a ton of lovers. That's it. I didn't even know about the whole horse rumor, which still is... weird. Where they got that rumor from, who knows. I learned so much about her, and also about Russia. The most I knew about Russia is focused around the last Romanovs, which was centuries after Catherine the Great was empress. I learned quite a bit about the woman and her interests, which were very impressive since she could have completely stuck with the status quo, maybe even actually gone with being a regent. She was a strong woman who completely deserves the title \"Great\" added to her name. After all, she was just supposed to marry a grand duke and produce some children, not become an empress who reigned for years. However, the book itself had some flaws that I can't overlook, all of which tie into one another. My main complaints are: Too long, jumps around a lot, and the focus really sucks. Massie doesn't always keep things in chronological order. Instead of addressing her relationship with her son, he waits a pretty long time to actually do so when he could have eliminated it by addressing it as it came up. He likes to go ahead, then come back to issues and catch us up when, again, that problem could be eliminated. Not only that, but Massie also loved to get off focus. We're talking about Catherine and the French Revolution? Well, we're going to catch everyone up about the French Revolution instead of just having Catherine's response. We're going to have a whole chapter pointlessly dedicated to it! He also focused far too much on Catherine's lovers. I get it. It's interesting and a huge part of what we know about her. However, would he have done this if Catherine had been a male? Likely not. He would have talked about it and discussed it, but likely focused on the politics or beliefs. In here, it focused too much about her lovers, which left me feeling like I barely knew a thing about her politics. Whenever Massie said something about how it's usual for her to feel this way about something, I would sort of look around and wonder if I really did think it was usual. If he cut out about the lovers, kept it chronological, and kept the focus on Catherine herself, then that would have cut down on it being too long. A good biography, just had a few flaws that made it annoying to read. ...more A flowing, engaging portrait of a remarkable person. Curiously, around mid-book, the author gets repetitive, as if the manuscript proofreader lost a section, then Massie gets right back into the groove. Monarchy is always an interesting subject. We all fantasize at some point about what life would be like if we were fabulously rich and powerful. The history of monarchies gives us many examples of this wish becoming reality and it isn't comforting. When we look back on it we can see that those bor A flowing, engaging portrait of a remarkable person. Curiously, around mid-book, the author gets repetitive, as if the manuscript proofreader lost a section, then Massie gets right back into the groove. Monarchy is always an interesting subject. We all fantasize at some point about what life would be like if we were fabulously rich and powerful. The history of monarchies gives us many examples of this wish becoming reality and it isn't comforting. When we look back on it we can see that those born to rule were no breed apart from the rest of humanity, suffering from all the troubles of the rest of us - greed, envy, lust, etc. Even some present at the time, such as Thomas Jefferson and friends, were well aware that the idea of a few special people having an innate superiority and right to rule was myth. Yet the system persisted and nations underwent terrible times under incompetent rulers, or even very competent rules who had a desire for conquest that sentenced thousands to death in war. It was chance that selected a person that would provide a benign reign, and that chance was lowered by inbreeding. Yet the fear of royalty, and shared by Catherine, was \"it's us, or chaos\". Catherine was one of these benign rulers, though even she was not immune to a psychological disease of royalty - the dream of empire. As it happened, her armies were mostly victorious and that goes a very long way in making rulers great in hindsight. European royals were often alien to the countries they ruled. Catherine, ruler of Russia, was German, having to give up her Lutheran religion and learn the Russian language. Lineage trumped all. Though, as you will learn in this book, what the people thought was the lineage of a ruler could be far from the truth. Who would be the next to reign was a royal obsession that provides us with endless stories of intrigue, forced marriages, war and strange goings on in the royal boudoir. I promise you will be laughing out loud at what happens when Catherine is put to the task of producing the heir! Her bed-mate, Peter the Third, is a character beyond the dreams of any novelist. Catherine's place apart from the usual royal came from her restrained sense of self, a feeling for others and the ability to distinguish the possible from the futile. Like the typical royal she was harsh when crossed, but she prided herself on providing a relaxed atmosphere for courtiers, one where they could feel free to question her views and attempt to change her mind. She was against capital punishment, very unusual for the 18th century. She appreciated the ideas of the Enlightenment, corresponded with Voltaire and brought Diderot to her court for a time. She tried to bring together representatives of all the people of Russia well before the French Revolution, to see if the law could be amended to take all groups into account. You will find the development of Catherine's views on the world ties the book together. Russian rebellion and the French Revolution are the events that challenge Catherine's thinking. Incidentally, Robert Massie in this book provides the most concise yet comprehensive account of the French Revolution that I've ever read, even providing a remarkable aside on the guillotine. You know of \"I have not yet begun to fight\" John Paul Jones? You don't know his whole story! How did he end up in Russia? That's for you to find out. A welcome companion in my easy chair, Catherine the Great warmed me up this very cold January, and I don't warm up to royalty easily! ...more She was born Sophia Anhalt-Zerbst, a German. The Empress Elizabeth of Russia selected her at age 14 by to marry her nephew, Peter, the heir to the throne. Highly intelligent, raven-haired, beautiful, engaging, and outgoing, she first delighted the Russian court by learning the language. She converted from Lutheran to Orthodox, taking the name Ekaterina (Catherine). She did not love her husband-to-be, nor did he love her. But that had nothing to do with her ambition: she determined early on to be She was born Sophia Anhalt-Zerbst, a German. The Empress Elizabeth of Russia selected her at age 14 by to marry her nephew, Peter, the heir to the throne. Highly intelligent, raven-haired, beautiful, engaging, and outgoing, she first delighted the Russian court by learning the language. She converted from Lutheran to Orthodox, taking the name Ekaterina (Catherine). She did not love her husband-to-be, nor did he love her. But that had nothing to do with her ambition: she determined early on to become empress in her own right. She understood from the beginning the sole purpose for her presence was to produce an heir. She did, without the help of her husband who never touched her. In all, she had three children, each with a different lover. She was far more adept than her husband in nearly every way. When he became emperor on the death of his aunt, he managed in six short months to alienate the army, the church, and the people. She on the other hand was popular in all quarters and took the first opportunity to lead a bloodless coup. On the morning of June 28, 1762, with the help of key members of court and the army she seized power. Even as Catherine was proclaimed \u201cAutocrat of all the Russias\u201d in the Kazan Cathedral, St. Petersburg, her husband, wearing his treasured Prussian uniform was drilling his cadre of German soldiers, true to his incompetence. Catherine and her husband\u2019s grandfather, Peter, were the only Russian rulers to have \u201cthe Great\u201d affixed to their names. She adopted the ideas of the Enlightenment and corresponded in fluent French with Voltaire and Diderot. She narrowed the grounds for the death penalty, saying, \u201cThe death of a criminal is a less effective means of restraining crimes than the permanent example of a man deprived of his liberty during the whole of his life.\u201d She opposed torture believing, \u201cThe rack is a sure method of condemning an innocent person whose constitution is weak, and of acquitting the guilty who depends upon his bodily strength,\u201d and, \u201cWhat right can give anyone authority to inflict torture upon a citizen when it is still unknown whether he is innocent or guilty?\u201d She was a patron of science and art. In 1763, the second year of her reign, she founded Russia\u2019s first College of Medicine. She established the Russian art collection, now housed at The Hermitage and had Russia\u2019s iconic statue the bronze equestrian figure of Peter the Great sculpted. She built many of the finest structures in Russia, including the original Hermitage (then a small addition to the Winter Palace that she disliked) and the Marble Palace. Still, her reign was typically Russian in the never-ceasing expansion of the country\u2019s boundaries, putting a Russian fleet in the Black Sea, taking the Crimea, and adding part of Poland. Even with all of this, she is perhaps remembered most for her succession of lovers and the author details all twelve of them. The author does not engage in amateur psychiatry over the reasons for her affairs but he does make clear that she loved being in love. One of her most emblematic statements was, \u201cI cannot live an hour without love.\u201d This is a great book that at length and in detail gives you deep insight into one the world\u2019s most significant monarchs and most fascinating people. ...more This gripping, well written book about Russian Empress Catherine the Great introduced me to a non-England and France centered European history that I knew almost nothing about, and to the very human but inspiring Catherine II. Catherine was born to a German family of minor nobility, and being a girl she was a disappointment to her poor but socially ambitious mother. The lack of affection she experienced during her childhood prepared her well for the marriage her mother managed to arrange to the This gripping, well written book about Russian Empress Catherine the Great introduced me to a non-England and France centered European history that I knew almost nothing about, and to the very human but inspiring Catherine II. Catherine was born to a German family of minor nobility, and being a girl she was a disappointment to her poor but socially ambitious mother. The lack of affection she experienced during her childhood prepared her well for the marriage her mother managed to arrange to the future Peter III, ruler of Russia. Peter was immature and petty, and extremely resentful that he\u2019d been removed from his life in Prussia to be the heir of his childless aunt, Empress Elizabeth. Catherine bided her time, observing the Russian court and learning everything she could. One escape from her loveless marriage was reading, and she absorbed many of the beliefs and tenets of Enlightenment writers such as Voltaire and Diderot, who later became her friends and correspondents. Smart and well liked, Catherine was always interested in having the chance to rule. When her unpopular husband was overthrown in a coup she helped lead only six months after his aunt\u2019s death, Catherine assumed power and began trying to apply the ideals of the Enlightenment to the feudal world of eighteenth century Russia. Though it had been her goal she was never able to free the serfs, and after the French Revolution her views became more conservative, but Catherine accomplished many great things for Russia during a fascinating era of history. She sought to involve citizens in the making of laws by authorizing councils that included all levels of Russian society, she expanded Russia\u2019s boundaries into Ottoman Empire territory to gain a Black Sea port, she improved public health by her pioneering support of a vaccine for the bubonic plague, and she became one of Europe\u2019s leading patrons of the arts. Catherine attracted the attention of the rest of Europe and brought Russia power and prestige. She worked tirelessly, rising by 6:00 every morning to deal with the business of the state, but she lived passionately too. After spending her early years married to a man uninterested in physical intimacy she had a series of twelve young lovers, including the military commander Potemkin. Before her rule, Russia was considered backwards by most Europeans. Catherine the Great forced them to change their minds. This is the first book I\u2019ve read by Robert K. Massie, but now that I\u2019ve discovered him I\u2019m eager to read his Peter the Great and Nicolas and Alexandra. ...more ARC received through the First Reads program. Like many people, the most I knew about Catherine the Great was that she was a Russian queen with some persistent saucy rumors attached to her. This narrative history sheds a lot of light on the life of the German princess who became Empress of Russia in her own right. For example, the Russian royals didn't necessarily come to the throne by right of primogeniture, which is how Catherine was able to become Empress. Catherine's marriage to Peter III was ARC received through the First Reads program. Like many people, the most I knew about Catherine the Great was that she was a Russian queen with some persistent saucy rumors attached to her. This narrative history sheds a lot of light on the life of the German princess who became Empress of Russia in her own right. For example, the Russian royals didn't necessarily come to the throne by right of primogeniture, which is how Catherine was able to become Empress. Catherine's marriage to Peter III was a disaster. They were married when both were little more than children, and for the entirety of their marriage Peter was way more interested in playing with toy soldiers in bed than anything else. After Peter was overthrown and Catherine came to the throne, she did have a lot of lovers--this is true. She may have married one of them. But salacious gossip aside, she was an astute and adept ruler, the equal of my personal favorite Elizabeth I of England. The best thing about Robert K. Massie's tome, however, is that I didn't get bogged down with lists of dates and official goings-on. I never lost sight of the fact that Catherine was a real woman, complete with feelings and flaws. That's hard to pull off with histories. Massie's book is a long one, clocking in at nearly 600 pages (not including index and source list, either). Much of the first part of the book is drawn from Catherine's memoirs, leading to a really personal glimpse into her early life. Russian history is not my strong suit, but after reading this work, I'm inspired to tackle Massie's biography of Peter the Great. ...more \u04ae\u043d\u044d\u0445\u044d\u044d\u0440 \u0441\u0430\u0439\u043d \u0431\u0438\u0447\u0436\u044d\u044d. \u0413\u0435\u0440\u043c\u0430\u043d\u044b \u044f\u0434\u0440\u0443\u0443\u0445\u0430\u043d \u044f\u0437\u0433\u0443\u0443\u0440\u0442\u043d\u044b \u0442\u043e\u043c \u043e\u0445\u0438\u043d \u0431\u043e\u043b\u0436 \u0442\u04e9\u0440\u0441\u04e9\u043d \u0447 \u0442\u0443\u0445\u0430\u0439\u043d \u04af\u0435\u0438\u0439\u043d\u0445\u044d\u044d \u0445\u0430\u043c\u0433\u0438\u0439\u043d \u0445\u04af\u0447\u0438\u0440\u0445\u044d\u0433 \u043d\u044d\u0433\u044d\u043d \u0431\u043e\u043b\u0436 \u0447\u0430\u0434\u0441\u0430\u043d \u041e\u0440\u043e\u0441\u044b\u043d 2-\u0440 \u0415\u043a\u0430\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0438\u043d\u0430 \u0445\u0430\u0442\u0430\u043d \u0445\u0430\u0430\u043d\u044b \u043d\u0430\u043c\u0442\u0430\u0440 \u043c\u0430\u0448 \u0441\u043e\u043d\u0438\u0440\u0445\u043e\u043b\u0442\u043e\u0439 \u0431\u0430\u0439\u043b\u0430\u0430. \u0422\u044d\u0440 32 \u0436\u0438\u043b\u0438\u0439\u043d \u0442\u0443\u0440\u0448 \u041e\u0440\u043e\u0441\u044b\u043d \u0442\u04e9\u0440\u0438\u0439\u0433 \u0431\u0430\u0440\u044c\u0436 \u0431\u0430\u0439\u0432. 18-\u0440 \u0437\u0443\u0443\u043d\u044b \u04af\u0435\u0438\u0439\u043d \u0415\u0432\u0440\u043e\u043f\u044b\u043d \u043d\u0438\u0439\u0433\u043c\u0438\u0439\u043d \u043d\u04e9\u0445\u0446\u04e9\u043b \u0431\u0430\u0439\u0434\u0430\u043b, \u043e\u044e\u0443\u043d \u0441\u0430\u043d\u0430\u0430\u043d\u044b \u0445\u04e9\u0433\u0436\u043b\u0438\u0439\u043d \u0442\u0430\u043b\u0430\u0430\u0440 \u0438\u0445\u044d\u0434 \u0434\u044d\u043b\u0433\u044d\u0440\u044d\u043d\u0433\u04af\u0439 \u043c\u044d\u0434\u044d\u0436 \u0430\u0432\u0441\u0430\u043d\u0434\u0430\u0430 \u0431\u0430\u044f\u0440\u0442\u0430\u0439 \u0431\u0430\u0439\u043d\u0430. \u042f\u043b\u0430\u043d\u0433\u0443\u044f\u0430 \u044d\u0437\u0434\u0438\u0439\u043d\u0445\u044d\u044d \u0434\u0430\u0440\u043b\u0430\u043b\u0434 \u0437\u043e\u0432\u0436 \u0446\u04e9\u0445\u04e9\u0440\u0441\u04e9\u043d \u0442\u0430\u0440\u0438\u0430\u0447\u0438\u0434, \u04e9\u04e9\u0440\u0441\u0434\u0438\u0439\u043d \u043d\u043e\u0451\u0440\u0445\u043b\u043e\u043e \u0430\u0432\u0447 \u04af\u043b\u0434\u044d\u0445 \u0433\u044d\u0441\u044d\u043d \u044f\u0437\u0433\u0443\u0443\u0440\u0442\u043d\u0443\u0443\u0434\u044b\u043d \u0445\u043e\u043e\u0440\u043e\u043d\u0434\u044b\u043d \u0437\u04e9\u0440\u0447\u0438\u043b, \u0445\u04af\u043d\u0438\u0439 \u044d\u0440\u0445\u0438\u0439\u043d \u0442\u044d\u0433\u0448 \u0431\u0430\u0439\u0434\u0430\u043b \u0445\u0443 \u04ae\u043d\u044d\u0445\u044d\u044d\u0440 \u0441\u0430\u0439\u043d \u0431\u0438\u0447\u0436\u044d\u044d. \u0413\u0435\u0440\u043c\u0430\u043d\u044b \u044f\u0434\u0440\u0443\u0443\u0445\u0430\u043d \u044f\u0437\u0433\u0443\u0443\u0440\u0442\u043d\u044b \u0442\u043e\u043c \u043e\u0445\u0438\u043d \u0431\u043e\u043b\u0436 \u0442\u04e9\u0440\u0441\u04e9\u043d \u0447 \u0442\u0443\u0445\u0430\u0439\u043d \u04af\u0435\u0438\u0439\u043d\u0445\u044d\u044d \u0445\u0430\u043c\u0433\u0438\u0439\u043d \u0445\u04af\u0447\u0438\u0440\u0445\u044d\u0433 \u043d\u044d\u0433\u044d\u043d \u0431\u043e\u043b\u0436 \u0447\u0430\u0434\u0441\u0430\u043d \u041e\u0440\u043e\u0441\u044b\u043d 2-\u0440 \u0415\u043a\u0430\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0438\u043d\u0430 \u0445\u0430\u0442\u0430\u043d \u0445\u0430\u0430\u043d\u044b \u043d\u0430\u043c\u0442\u0430\u0440 \u043c\u0430\u0448 \u0441\u043e\u043d\u0438\u0440\u0445\u043e\u043b\u0442\u043e\u0439 \u0431\u0430\u0439\u043b\u0430\u0430. \u0422\u044d\u0440 32 \u0436\u0438\u043b\u0438\u0439\u043d \u0442\u0443\u0440\u0448 \u041e\u0440\u043e\u0441\u044b\u043d \u0442\u04e9\u0440\u0438\u0439\u0433 \u0431\u0430\u0440\u044c\u0436 \u0431\u0430\u0439\u0432. 18-\u0440 \u0437\u0443\u0443\u043d\u044b \u04af\u0435\u0438\u0439\u043d \u0415\u0432\u0440\u043e\u043f\u044b\u043d \u043d\u0438\u0439\u0433\u043c\u0438\u0439\u043d \u043d\u04e9\u0445\u0446\u04e9\u043b \u0431\u0430\u0439\u0434\u0430\u043b, \u043e\u044e\u0443\u043d \u0441\u0430\u043d\u0430\u0430\u043d\u044b \u0445\u04e9\u0433\u0436\u043b\u0438\u0439\u043d \u0442\u0430\u043b\u0430\u0430\u0440 \u0438\u0445\u044d\u0434 \u0434\u044d\u043b\u0433\u044d\u0440\u044d\u043d\u0433\u04af\u0439 \u043c\u044d\u0434\u044d\u0436 \u0430\u0432\u0441\u0430\u043d\u0434\u0430\u0430 \u0431\u0430\u044f\u0440\u0442\u0430\u0439 \u0431\u0430\u0439\u043d\u0430. \u042f\u043b\u0430\u043d\u0433\u0443\u044f\u0430 \u044d\u0437\u0434\u0438\u0439\u043d\u0445\u044d\u044d \u0434\u0430\u0440\u043b\u0430\u043b\u0434 \u0437\u043e\u0432\u0436 \u0446\u04e9\u0445\u04e9\u0440\u0441\u04e9\u043d \u0442\u0430\u0440\u0438\u0430\u0447\u0438\u0434, \u04e9\u04e9\u0440\u0441\u0434\u0438\u0439\u043d \u043d\u043e\u0451\u0440\u0445\u043b\u043e\u043e \u0430\u0432\u0447 \u04af\u043b\u0434\u044d\u0445 \u0433\u044d\u0441\u044d\u043d \u044f\u0437\u0433\u0443\u0443\u0440\u0442\u043d\u0443\u0443\u0434\u044b\u043d \u0445\u043e\u043e\u0440\u043e\u043d\u0434\u044b\u043d \u0437\u04e9\u0440\u0447\u0438\u043b, \u0445\u04af\u043d\u0438\u0439 \u044d\u0440\u0445\u0438\u0439\u043d \u0442\u044d\u0433\u0448 \u0431\u0430\u0439\u0434\u0430\u043b \u0445\u0443\u0440\u0446\u0430\u0430\u0440 \u0442\u0430\u0432\u0438\u0433\u0434\u0430\u0436 \u044d\u0445\u044d\u043b\u0436 \u0431\u0430\u0439\u0441\u0430\u043d \u0442\u044d\u0440 \u043b \u04af\u0435\u0434 \u0442\u04af\u0440\u0445\u044d\u043d \u043e\u0447\u043e\u043e\u0434 \u0438\u0440\u0441\u044d\u043d \u044e\u043c \u0448\u0438\u0433 \u0441\u0430\u043d\u0430\u0433\u0434\u0430\u043d\u0430. \u0425\u04af\u043d \u0442\u04e9\u0440\u04e9\u043b\u0445\u0442\u043d\u0438\u0439 \u0445\u04e9\u0433\u0436\u0438\u043b \u0433\u044d\u0436.. ...more (view spoiler) [ Bettie's Books (hide spoiler) ] Massie's much anticipated biography of the only female Russian ruler accorded the title \"the Great\" is as compelling as his previous biographies. This biography of Sophia Augusta, later known as Catherine, is a deeply researched and masterfully told story. The book begins with an explaination of Sophia's early childhood. She was not a much loved child, being born a female and not the son her mother wanted. \"Johanna could not find or express any maternal feeling. She did not nurse or caress her lit Massie's much anticipated biography of the only female Russian ruler accorded the title \"the Great\" is as compelling as his previous biographies. This biography of Sophia Augusta, later known as Catherine, is a deeply researched and masterfully told story. The book begins with an explaination of Sophia's early childhood. She was not a much loved child, being born a female and not the son her mother wanted. \"Johanna could not find or express any maternal feeling. She did not nurse or caress her little daughter. She spent no time watching over her cradle or holding her; instead, abruptly, she handed the child over to servants and wet nurses.\"*** Her somewhat selfish, ego-centric mother, Johanna, often referred to her daughter as 'ugly', and unworthy. Johanna was more interested in her own social standing, rather than that of her children. She came to realize that only through her daughter could she advance her own status. The young Sophia was introduced to young Peter II, heir to the throne of Russia, by his aunt, the current Empress Elizabeth (daughter of Peter the Great). Peter was the son of Charles Frederick, Duke of Holstein. Peter's mother was the Empresses older sister Anne. Anne died shortly after Peter's birth. He was raised by an abusive tutor and this affected his adult life. He had little interest in anything Russian, preferring to be recognized as a Prussian. Sophia was baptised into the Russian Orthodox church as Ekaterina (Catherine). Shortly after her baptism she becomes betrothed to Peter. Massie very cleverly intersperses quotes from the memoirs of Catherine herself. She explains that her marriage was not consummated for 9 years. She unapolagetically acknowledges her lovers. The paternity of her male heir, Paul, is in question. At the time of his birth, Catherine's current lover was Sergie Saltykov. Massie himself questions the paternity of the child but does write \"Paul looked more like Peter than Sergie\". Interesting to think that Peter may have been the end of the Romanov bloodline. Catherine becomes Empress after Peter's death. I received the impression that Catherine had no other choice but to dispense with Peter. She considered herself to be wholeheartedly Russian at this point in her life. Peter was an incompetent fool. In order to save Russia from his hands, his death was necessary. Catherine had to assume control to preserve the state. The remainder of the book deals with Catherine's role as Empress. Her relationship with Gregory Potemkin is given a great deal of weight. He became her very special friend, confidant and lover. He may or may not have secretly become her husband. It is here that we see more of Catherine as a woman, not just a leader. She is truly a strong, courageous asset to Russia. Without her intervention, her skill and her intelligence, one can only imagine what would have happened had Russia been ruled by Peter and another woman as Empress. The Hermitage Museum is given more than a brief mention. Catherine became one of Europe's greatest art collectors. The Hermitage is today one of the most important museums in the world. As I mentioned, the memoirs of Catherine throughout the book are a welcome addition. Massie has expertly created another masterpiece. I highly recommend this book to anyone who loves Russian history or has previously read and enjoyed another work by Robert Massie. I received this ARC edition from LibraryThing's Early Reviewers. I hope the finished edition contains pictures. ***ALL QUOTES ARE FROM AN UNCORRECTED PROOF. THEY WILL BE CHECKED FOR ACCURACY AGAINST THE FINISHED BOOK.*** ...more Massie delivers a wonderfully researched and readable book. My knowledge of Catherine the Great was vague to the point of mythical. I had hazy memories of multiple lovers, a (possible) scandal about her and a horse, and a movie starring Greta Garbo. The lovers were real, but few; there was no mention of the horse; and the movie turned out to be about Queen Christina of Sweden who lived a century earlier. So much for memory. To say Catherine is a fascinating character is to do her a disservice. Ma Massie delivers a wonderfully researched and readable book. My knowledge of Catherine the Great was vague to the point of mythical. I had hazy memories of multiple lovers, a (possible) scandal about her and a horse, and a movie starring Greta Garbo. The lovers were real, but few; there was no mention of the horse; and the movie turned out to be about Queen Christina of Sweden who lived a century earlier. So much for memory. To say Catherine is a fascinating character is to do her a disservice. Massie shows her towering intellect, force of personality, and steely resolve from an early age. He also shows us her craving for love and approval denied in childhood and in her marriage. But her story is not a simplistic psycho-drama, it's populated with complicated characters, shifting political agendas (both domestic and foreign), and colored with the burgeoning philosophies of the Age of Enlightenment. In the U.S. we tend to forget that the world goes on perfectly well without us. It was fun to read a book set during the turbulent times in our revolution and see it be a postscript in one chapter where Britain asked Russia for some troops. (Catherine didn't send any, so the Brits got Hessians instead.) While we were fighting our backwoods guerrilla war, Catherine was partitioning Poland, expanding Russia to the Black Sea (at Turkey's expense) and building the finest art collection in Europe. She wrote a remarkable document on human rights and government several years before our Declaration of Independence and advocated freeing the Russian serfs while we were legitimizing slavery in our constitution. Unfortunately, the Russian nobility wasn't ready for those significant changes. Even more unfortunately, Catherine became more conservative as she aged and felt threatened by the bloody horror of the French Revolution. Massie takes seriously his subtitle: \"Portrait of a Woman\" by providing us with insight into Catherine's everyday life, her relationships, fears and triumphs. My heart went out to the young woman who gave birth to her first child, only to have the Empress Elizabeth snatch the child away within seconds, leaving the mother alone and bleeding on the floor for hours. Given her own mother's neglect, her insane husband's abuse and Elizabeth's horrendous treatment; it's a wonder Catherine turned out sane, much less one of the most powerful and insightful rulers in Europe. Highly recommend this one. This is an ARC (with several typos and formatting issues which should be taken care of in the final printing) received through an Early Readers Program. The opinions expressed are my own and not in consideration for the book. A longer, more detailed review is available on my blog . ...more Massie is clearly the master of all things Romanov. I hope that he continues to write these wonderful, comprehensive biographies of various members of this interesting family. I read by Virginia Rounding a couple of years ago and found the book to be very good - 5 stars to be exact. However, what I really like about reading Massie is that he provides much detail around the subject matter while keeping the book immensely readable. Rounding's book was more dense than Massie's, which may make it d Massie is clearly the master of all things Romanov. I hope that he continues to write these wonderful, comprehensive biographies of various members of this interesting family. I read by Virginia Rounding a couple of years ago and found the book to be very good - 5 stars to be exact. However, what I really like about reading Massie is that he provides much detail around the subject matter while keeping the book immensely readable. Rounding's book was more dense than Massie's, which may make it difficult for some readers to hang in there and to finish the book. I don't think that readers would have this issue when reading Massie. Massie's depiction of Catherine is both objective and well-researched. Massie lets this research speak for itself rather then putting his spin on who Catherine was or wasn't. If the research is unclear, Massie tries to provide clarity by interweaving facts to support what is more likely to have happened or to have been the reason behind some act or omission. I find Catherine to be a fascinating character because next to Queen Elizabeth I, she is the greatest woman to ever rule a European country - and she wasn't even Russian! Yet, she took Peter the Great's achievements a step further toward advancing the status of the nation from military, economic, political and cultural perpectives. Massie also gives excellent insight into how Catherine's knowledge of the principals developed from and during the Enlightenment formulated her views on how she governed Russia. She wasn't afraid to experiment with new ideas and realized, even then, that torture is a useless tool in gathering information from prisoners or other persons of interest. She was tough but fair and very popular with the Russian people. Often much is made over Catherine's serial love affairs with her \"favorites\". Yet, Massie does an excellent job of explaining how Catherine's marraige to Peter III (or lack thereof) affected her need to have constant companionship and love. Therefore, we see how Catherine has been damaged by this relationship and how it set the stage for all of her future relationships with men. I found that this insecurity in Catherine made her more likeable to me as a reader. The book was an ARC so I'm very fortunate to have been able to see an early preview of this work. The only feedback that I would give is for Massie to include some maps in the book. Nevertheless, overall, I highly recommend this book. And, a special message to Massie, please write more books about the Romanovs - STAT! ...more<---C>Robert K. Massie</---C>", "Title": "Catherine the Great: Portrait of a Woman"},
