{"Comments": "I'm not sure what compelled me to pick up this book, but that's true of many books I read. I simply felt like it was something I needed to read at that moment, and I'm very glad I did. <+++>Between the World and Me</+++> is written as a letter/essay from Coates to his fifteen-year-old son, trying to come to terms with what it means to grow up as an African American male in 2015. I almost said \"make sense of what it means,\" but Coates' story is not so much about making sense as it is about finding one's plac I'm not sure what compelled me to pick up this book, but that's true of many books I read. I simply felt like it was something I needed to read at that moment, and I'm very glad I did. <+++>Between the World and Me</+++> is written as a letter/essay from Coates to his fifteen-year-old son, trying to come to terms with what it means to grow up as an African American male in 2015. I almost said \"make sense of what it means,\" but Coates' story is not so much about making sense as it is about finding one's place in a nonsensical context. He does not believe there is an answer to race relations. He believes (<---B>as I interpret it</---B>) that racial conflict is in itself an artificial construct and part of the Dream that keeps one group in power over another. This is not a book written to explain the African American experience to white people (or as Coates likes to say, people who believe they are white.) As a middle-aged white guy, I am in no way the intended audience for this book. Perhaps that's what made it such an enlightening read for me. There was no sugar-coating,<---M> no careful racial diplomacy</---M>, no worry about mediating opinions to cater to what white people might be able to hear. It was just a heartfelt, raw, painful and honest letter from a father to a son, laying plain Coates' worry, anger, frustration, and fear for his son's future in light of Coates' own past and the world his son will grow up in. (There again: I almost said 'the world he will inherit,' but Coates would be quick to point out that this is white thinking. We grow up believing we can inherit the future of our country, whereas African Americans grow up hearing a very different message.) Coates' most powerful assertion: doing violence to the African American body is an American legacy and tradition. It is not a failure of the system.<---F> It is part of the system</---F>. As much as may have changed in the past decades, the past centuries, the basic fear of African American parents remains: that their children can be snatched away, brutalized, killed for the smallest of reasons or no reason at all, and too often this violence is never addressed as anything more than an unavoidable force of nature like a hurricane. We all tend to gravitate toward books that reflect our own experience, toward characters who look and act the way we do. I believe many white readers, if they are honest with themselves, will think, If I'm a white person, why should I read a book about African Americans? That doesn't have anything to do with me. Whites have the privilege of not thinking about race until some violence flares up on the news, and then we think of the issue as a fire to put out, not a sign of some endemic problem. This was true when I was growing up in Texas in the 70s and 80s. It was true when I taught in San Francisco in the 90s. It's still true here in Boston in the 2010s. African Americans don't have the luxury of thinking about race only when it suits them. It is an omnipresent fact of life and death. It makes their experience of American society fundamentally different and exponentially more complicated. That's exactly why I'd recommend this book to white readers. Our bubble can be pretty thick. It is important for us to step outside ourselves. Coates offers no answers, easy or otherwise. He believes in no grand vision. But he offers his son an honest assessment of his own experience and his own evolving thoughts on America. That's what rang true to me: a father talking candidly and caringly with his son. That's common ground I share with the author, as different as our experiences may be. This is a short book, easily finished in a couple of sittings, but it packs a punch. These issues aren't going away. They are only going to become more pressing. Read the book! ...more Less than an hour ago (on 7/26/2015) I finished reading <---A>Ta-Nehisi Coates</---A>\u2019 book, Between the World and Me. As I read the last sentence, \u201cThrough the windshield I saw the rain coming down in sheets,\u201d I was involuntarily overcome with inexplicable, yet wholly warranted emotion. Oddly, tears, my tears, tears perhaps I had been locking inside my fatherly bravado for a couple decades, came down in their own sheets, as thoughts of my child, my daughter, at fourteen years old, still having to face the d Less than an hour ago (on 7/26/2015) I finished reading Ta-Nehisi Coates\u2019 book, Between the World and Me. As I read the last sentence, \u201cThrough the windshield I saw the rain coming down in sheets,\u201d I was involuntarily overcome with inexplicable, yet wholly warranted emotion. Oddly, tears, my tears, tears perhaps I had been locking inside my fatherly bravado for a couple decades, came down in their own sheets, as thoughts of my child, my daughter, at fourteen years old, still having to face the daemonic vulgarities of a world she had no part in building but would be expected to repair, came to life. The tears came because Coates, in a few pages, captured, exposed, unlocked and translated what so many people of color, so many frustrated and frightened parents, and so many disenfranchised and nomadic youth found so difficult to dictate and explain. For them, the feelings were there but the words simply would not come. I wept because Coates' story was my story from my early experiences as a student at Morehouse College (the Harvard of the South) to the wanderer (and discoverer) of beauty upon the Parisian landscape, to accepting my unexpected role as an English teacher in a tough and directionless Baltimore City, to my exploration and rebirth, producing who I am today. Like so many, I was immediately taken to the oft quoted, extensively analyzed and eternally relevant essay, The Fire Next Time, written in 1962 by James Baldwin, as a \u201cletter\u201d to his nephew, written I suppose, for all the nephews in the world to analyze and digest. The similarities between Coates and Baldwin were uncanny, and certainly intentional, as \"Between the World... was written by Coates to his son, as if a continuation to Baldwin\u2019s last line from \u201cThe Fire\u2026\u201d: \u201cAnd everywhere there is the anguish of being black in a society that at times seems poised on the brink of total racial war.\u201d Yes, Coates released Between the World and Me, several weeks after the \u2018unrest\u2019 in Baltimore at the urging of his publisher, a timely and strategically perfect act and as an expose of tumultuous racial injustice and social chaos headlining the evening news the world over. He writes: \u201cBut race is the child of racism, not the father.\u201d Indeed. Perhaps. This is a book that must be read and passed on to the youth to read several times over; a book for universities and secondary schools to add to their bulging curriculum to produce and encourage meaningful dialogue without blame or bias. Between the World and Me, is a book that should be discussed over scones and tea and bags of potato chips, and shared during drives to grandma\u2019s house in the country or the inner city. It should be read by all people regardless of color, creed, nationality or social belief. This is a book of substance and timeless relevance. It is the book we all know. Eagerly and with great expectation, I await the next Coates to continue the story between the world and us. ...more Sometime early in my reading of this book, I felt in my gut I had encountered a classic. Not a best-seller\u2014this book is already that\u2014but a classic. I envisioned stack upon paperback stack piled on metal shelves in university bookstores, shelves labeled Black Studies 301 but also Basic Comp 100. I could see pirated copies of large portions of Part One passed out to high school juniors and seniors, to be carefully annotated in AP Language and AP Literature, and I could see smaller sections distrib Sometime early in my reading of this book, I felt in my gut I had encountered a classic. Not a best-seller\u2014this book is already that\u2014but a classic. I envisioned stack upon paperback stack piled on metal shelves in university bookstores, shelves labeled Black Studies 301 but also Basic Comp 100. I could see pirated copies of large portions of Part One passed out to high school juniors and seniors, to be carefully annotated in AP Language and AP Literature, and I could see smaller sections distributed (with the customary \"scaffolding\" materials) to freshmen and sophomores in Basic English I and II. But even now--after the winning of The National Book Award--I doubt my own vision. Coates book deserves to be a classic, just as much as The Life of Frederick Douglass , The Souls of Black Folk , The Fire Next Time , and The Autobiography of Malcolm X \u2014all first-class books\u2014deserve it. But a classic, after all, is not only a book of \u201cfirst-class\u201d quality, but one that is taught in \u201cclass\u201d--and Coates book may be too bleak to appeal to educators--not to mention schoolboards and parents--who prefer books like To Kill a Mockingbird or The Secret Life of Bees that agree to temper (to dissipate?) their truth with the comforts of warmth. Coates book--presented as an open letter to his teenage son--is undoubtedly bleak. He grew up on the streets of Baltimore in the early '90's, and describes the experience in physical, visceral terms. As a black boy growing up in such streets, you knew that your body was continually under mortal threat, often under attack. At any moment your body could be controlled, violated, by the hands or weapons of another\u2014often by the policemen employed by \u201cthe Dreamers,\u201d those who define themselves as white in America and wish to preserve for themselves the privileges of the American Dream. And you knew that any of these random violations of the body could lead to the ending of your life. And if you were a young unbeliever\u2014as Coates was and is\u2014you were conscious that this act would end the only life you would ever know. Coates has no faith in America or in its dream. For him, unlike Martin Luther King, the arc of the moral universe bends not toward justice but chaos. The Dream itself is built upon the despoliation and violation of the bodies of black men and women, and may only end when it has finally violated and despoiled the entire planet: Plunder has matured into habit and addiction; the people who could order the mechanized death of our ghettos, the mass rape of private prisons, then engineer their own forgetting, must inevitably plunder much more. This is not a belief in prophecy but in the seductiveness of cheap gasoline. Once, the Dream's parameters were caged by technology and by the limits of horsepower and wind. But the Dreamers have improved themselves, and the damming of seas for voltage, the extraction of coal, the transmuting of oil into food, have enabled an expansion in plunder with no known precedent. And the revolution has freed the Dreamers to plunder not just the bodies of humans but the body of the Earth itself. But this book is more than its bleakness; although it is never hopeful, it is earnest, honest, and aware. Coates describes his odyssey from the narrow streets of Baltimore, to the black \u201cMecca\u201d of Howard University, to the diverse neighborhoods of NYC, and to his encounter with a profoundly different culture on the boulevards of Paris. He welcomes his increasingly wide world with open eyes (if not always open arms), and his encounters with it deepen\u2014although they do not substantially alter\u2014his perceptions of blackness or the toxic nature of the Dream. Finally, even his atheism seems to be something like a gift. Perhaps it is only by realizing that the body is ultimately all we have that we can finally get our priorities straight, stop believing in forms of \u201cmagic\u201d like \u201csalvation\u201d or \u201cthe Dream\u201d or \"progress,\" and instead concentrate on making sure that the bodies of all young people are protected and respected, so that each may discover the world with her own unique eyes. Between the World and Me is undoubtedly a great book. Even if its bleakness prevents it from becoming an official classic, there is still a part of my vision that I am sure will come true. I see fathers giving copies to their sons, mothers to their daughters, for generations to come. ...more I'll get all of my disclaimers out of the way first. I am a fan of TNC but I also resent what he symbolizes. He is a great writer in his own right and he has the kind of co-signers in publishing and journalism that have offered him a platform that he has rightfully and eloquently expanded upon, utilized and maximized appropriately and used to catapult himself into the American race dialogue as one of the most prolific writers on race during our generation. My resentment of what he symbolizes com I'll get all of my disclaimers out of the way first. I am a fan of TNC but I also resent what he symbolizes. He is a great writer in his own right and he has the kind of co-signers in publishing and journalism that have offered him a platform that he has rightfully and eloquently expanded upon, utilized and maximized appropriately and used to catapult himself into the American race dialogue as one of the most prolific writers on race during our generation. My resentment of what he symbolizes comes from the absence of the same position and opportunity being afforded any Black American woman writer in our time. Essentially, my beef with TNC is not really beef with him at all as much as it is beef with the notion that a singular, vetted Black male voice has always been and continues to be viewed by non-Black readers, editors and consumers of racial rhetoric as the only voice that matters when it comes to writing eloquently about race and politics and intersectionality. All of that said, Between the World and Me has some great ideas and lines. The critique that black women are invisible or marginalized in the book is a faulty one; there is Mabel Jones, whose powerful testimony and grieving for her son closes the book and codifies the only perspective from which TNC would be able to include a black woman's voice - as mother, wife. There are the women he has loved at The Mecca, including his wife. There are authors that he includes in his wheelhouse of important influencers, Lucille Clifton, bell hooks and Toni Morrison. Speaking of Toni, I do not agree that this book is required reading generally. I get the comparisons to Baldwin but I am aggravated by them -- mainly because there is only one Baldwin. And Black writers need to be able to make their own legacies without immediate comparisons that perpetuate the limited imagination that America has for us...along with the continual reality that there can only ever be one valid, praised Black writer at a time. That said, I believe the central idea and argument -- that black bodies are not safe and that protection of them is not a requirement of realizing the American Dream -- will be a revelation for non-Black readers and a healing affirmation for Black readers who have until now not had their experience considered or regarded as anything other than a figment of their imagination or proof of their nihilism or some other sinister sentiment. ...more I received this book free for review from ShelfAwareness in exchange for an honest review. Despite the privilege of receiving a free book, I\u2019m absolutely candid about it below because I believe authors and readers will benefit most from honest reviews rather than vacuous 5-star reviews. Written in the form of a letter from a father to a son, \"Between the World and Me\" is a detailed crystallization of the state of racism in our country today and its historical roots throughout the entire history o I received this book free for review from ShelfAwareness in exchange for an honest review. Despite the privilege of receiving a free book, I\u2019m absolutely candid about it below because I believe authors and readers will benefit most from honest reviews rather than vacuous 5-star reviews. Written in the form of a letter from a father to a son, \"Between the World and Me\" is a detailed crystallization of the state of racism in our country today and its historical roots throughout the entire history of our country. My normal review format is to prattle on about positive and negative aspects of a book but in this case I think it's really more important to the potential reader that they understand what exactly it is that they're getting. For those who want a light breezy primer on racism... this is not it. This is profound and erudite and is the sort of book you could pick apart sentence by sentence for a year and at the end of that year just shake your head in despair. What Coates has done, like I've never seen before, is passionately and profoundly lay out the sad state of race relations in this country. The book reads like a PhD thesis as it patiently and methodically makes its points and then proves them. The book is also infinitely quotable. I read a few passages aloud to my fiancee and her wide-eyed reaction was to simply mouth the word \"wow\". Coates strings words together in a most elegant tapestry that forces the reader to think carefully and internalize the grim realities of life as a victim of racism in this country. Read so that ye may weep and know the truth. PS: I hope my review was helpful. If it was not, then please let me know what I left out that you\u2019d want to know. I always aim to improve. -- Rob Slaven Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/tatteredthread/ Amazon: https://www.amazon.com/gp/pdp/profile... YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/user/RobSlave... WordPress: https://tthread.wordpress.com/ ...more I thought it was a little fishy that all the reviews on here are these reverent whispery multi-starred nods of agreement about how important this book is. I mean, that just never happens, especially with the \"it\" book of the moment : there are always naysayers and contrarians and people who just don't get what the BFD is. Since there's a copy lying around my house, I thought I'd check it out -- the season's \"it\" book is rarely just 152 pages and about a topic that interests me, so I was excited I thought it was a little fishy that all the reviews on here are these reverent whispery multi-starred nods of agreement about how important this book is. I mean, that just never happens, especially with the \"it\" book of the moment : there are always naysayers and contrarians and people who just don't get what the BFD is. Since there's a copy lying around my house, I thought I'd check it out -- the season's \"it\" book is rarely just 152 pages and about a topic that interests me, so I was excited to participate in the cool thing for once, after missing out on Fifty Shades of Grey and The Hunger Games and Eat Pray Love and all the rest due to a combination of laziness and snobbery. On some level I was hoping to be the don't-believe-the-hype hater on here, but Coates left me disappointed on that front. It did take me a little while to get into this but once he got to college I was hooked and couldn't stop even though it was late and I had to get up at 3am to catch a transcontinental flight. My main question before I read it was, \"What new is there to say?\" I'd noticed everyone had their panties all in a twist over this book about being black in America and based on what I'd heard I just didn't get what he could've said that seemed so revelatory and new. The answer is, not too much really: it's more the way that he says it. Between the World and Me is an intensely personal book that's rooted in deeply-felt lived experience. As someone who is horrified by our era's obsession with memoir, I am occasionally floored when I see what a personal story can do. I recently read an essay online by a woman whose father had committed suicide that made me seriously rethink my antipathy towards memoir, and my response to this book was similar. So often the recounting of personal experience and private feelings comes off as dull, narcissistic, and unnecessary, but on occasion memoir transcends itself and is able to speak to something much larger than one person's life with an authority that nothing else can. It doesn't need to be said but I'll point out anyway that a lot of this book's success has to do with timing. White Americans have been able to ignore a lot of this for a long time, but recently that's become almost impossible to do. In the past two weeks we've heard Sandra Bland's traffic stop and watched Samuel DuBose be murdered before our eyes and the trauma of witnessing these things, and the rest from the past year, has left pretty much everyone looking for answers. This book did partially answer a huge question I've had for years that I'm sure a lot of other uninformed white people have but that's too offensive and embarrassing to ask black parents directly, which is, \"What do you tell your kids? When do you tell them? And how do you reassure them that it's going to be alright, when as a parent you're supposed to help them feel things will be okay but you're also supposed to be honest and keep them safe?\" This book is constructed as a letter to Coates's fifteen-year-old son, and the reason it's so satisfying is that it does not err on the side of false comfort and remains honestly bleak. It also gave me the uncomfortably excited feeling of access to a perspective I've always wanted to know more about but was -- yeah, I'll admit it -- afraid to ask. I think pretty often about what makes me an adult, and maybe this sounds weird but one of the main things is understanding now what a big deal it is when people die. I feel like when I was a kid I didn't quite get that that actually happened, and then when I was a teenager I didn't think it was very serious, but when I grew up I finally saw that this was it, this was huge, this was almost the only thing that there was that mattered. Between the World and Me 's main orientation is corporal: it's concerned with what happens to a person's body as ultimately the sole important thing. For me, this is a helpful way to think about racism. I remember one day when I was not so old, but not really that young either, reading that African American men have much shorter life expectancies than white American men due to health disparities, and it was like a light went off and I finally saw what racism was in a different and much truer way than I had before. So much discourse about race takes place in these abstract terms that speak about social construction and are preoccupied with the nuance of language and ideas, but there is something about a return to the body that blows that away. At the end of the day, redlining matters because it's created conditions in which black kids are more likely than white kids to get hit with a stray bullet while walking to school. It sounds foolishly obvious but police brutality and mass incarceration affect people in the most stark and concrete way: by ending lives, by physically hurting or locking up their bodies. Of course there are other reasons why racism is is a problem, but Coates's emphasis on the body, and his insistence that nothing else matters so much beyond that, resonated with me. This is a book that takes our country's sweet language about having a dream and turns it into a bitter mouthful of ashes. I'm actually surprised it's so popular because I feel we as Americans crave optimism and promises of solutions, and Coates offers neither. There's a lot of beauty in the world, he says, and there are great things about being young, gifted and black or whatever, but he doesn't believe in any moral arc of the universe tilting toward justice or in any of this getting especially better, which according to him (spoiler alert!) will be a moot point anyway soon because we'll all be underwater. A short, well-written, timely book that I, along with everyone else, recommend. ...more \"But all our phrasing- race relations, racial chasms, racial justice, racial profiling, white privilege, even white supremacy- serves to obscure that racism is a visceral experience, that it dislodges brains, blocks airways, rips muscle, extracts organs, cracks bones, breaks teeth.\" - Ta-Nehisi Coates, Between the World and Me A couple of days ago I posted on Twitter a painting by Jean-L\u00e9on G\u00e9r\u00f4me entitled \"Truth Coming Out of Her Well to Shame Mankind.\" I love the painting, the title, and I \"But all our phrasing- race relations, racial chasms, racial justice, racial profiling, white privilege, even white supremacy- serves to obscure that racism is a visceral experience, that it dislodges brains, blocks airways, rips muscle, extracts organs, cracks bones, breaks teeth.\" - Ta-Nehisi Coates, Between the World and Me A couple of days ago I posted on Twitter a painting by Jean-L\u00e9on G\u00e9r\u00f4me entitled \"Truth Coming Out of Her Well to Shame Mankind.\" I love the painting, the title, and I think that's how truth can appear to some people; scary but perhaps appealing as well. On a similar note, I love the honest, truthful accounts people are writing about their lives these days. I've often spoken of the gratitude I feel in particular to the different black writers who have given their unique perspectives that have helped paint a bigger picture about what it means to be black in the West. Although most literature is focused on the USA, so many of us who don't live there understand to a certain extent the experiences. [image error] \" /> Jean-L\u00e9on G\u00e9r\u00f4me- \"Truth Coming Out of Her Well to Shame Mankind.\" So I read this eloquent and detailed response to the world, a letter to Ta-Nehisi Coate's teenage son, and I'm glad I did. The comparisons to Baldwin are very apt, especially having read \"The Fire Next Time.\" Baldwin's book, one of my favourite pieces of writing, is still very applicable to our time, and Coates' has been written specifically for our time with several modern references. I recognized many familiar names; Trayvon Martin, Rekia Boyd, and Michael Brown, and others. This is less of a book review than a response to what emotions and thoughts the book brought out in me, so it might sound a bit disjointed. I can't even begin to imagine the pain and difficulty many black people face when raising their children in a hostile world, a world that does very little to treat black people as worthy. Several of the adults in my family had the \"race talk\" with me. From a young age I knew how I was likely to be perceived, and I was taught ways that I could lessen the impact, and I realized as I got older how exhausting it is to live like this, very often on guard.The adults in my family and community did their best to create a safe environment for the kids despite society's obviously powerful presence. And I don't know if all the repercussions of living in such a world were completely evident to them because perhaps they expected racism and hardships for several reasons, but for someone like me who was raised in the West, my thoughts have always been \"I am practically one of you, your society socialized me, why do I still feel this feeling of unbelonging?\" The last few years have been very trying and we're dealing with a lot of backlash from discourses about race and what to do about racism. This book helps to show there is no way to forget our skin colour because we are treated based on what we look like, not on who we are. I often see the onus is on marginalized people to change their ways of reacting to racism, and when I read this book I am more aware of how pervasive racism is in all parts of society, and the effects it has on minorities living in these societies. \"We were black, beyond the visible spectrum, beyond civilization. Our history was inferior because we were inferior, which is to say our bodies were inferior. And our inferior bodies could not possibly be accorded the same respect as those that built the West.\" I appreciate Coates' discussion of education as he saw it and experienced it. I think it's very telling and clearly shows that the role of the schools was to uphold white supremacy. I can speak from experience that as a black person learning in history class that the main contributions your ancestors have contributed have been slavery, is disheartening, yet I felt grateful that my history was even touched on. It took me well into my 20s, and on my own accord, to study black history that didn't focus on slavery. And the effects of that were obviously huge, and made me realize that my people had contributed so much more than is readily admitted. When I read the story of Coate's friend who was shot and killed by police, I found his reminiscences of his friend very poignant, and adding more depth to what it means for a black person to be killed for no reason but the colour of their skin: \"Think of all the love poured into him...And think of how that vessel was taken, shattered on the concrete, and all the holy contents, all that had gone into him, sent flying back to the earth.\" This book is full of profound quotes and thoughts that I'm still thinking about weeks later: \"It struck me that perhaps the defining feature of being drafted into the black race was the inescapable robbery of time, because the moment we spent readying the mask, or readying ourselves to accept half as much, could not be recovered.\" I could really go on and on about this book because there is so much to say. I'm very thankful I was able to read it. ...more Ta-Nehisi Coates' Between the World and Me is an essay to his teenaged son. Toni Morrison on the cover maintains that this should be required reading. In this short yet powerful message, Coates delivers a rap on race and offers hope to African Americans in their struggle to maintain their culture. Coates is a respected journalist and essayist and here writes a lyrical prose that had me captivated from the first pages. His message is simple- African Americans have to work twice as hard because of Ta-Nehisi Coates' Between the World and Me is an essay to his teenaged son. Toni Morrison on the cover maintains that this should be required reading. In this short yet powerful message, Coates delivers a rap on race and offers hope to African Americans in their struggle to maintain their culture. Coates is a respected journalist and essayist and here writes a lyrical prose that had me captivated from the first pages. His message is simple- African Americans have to work twice as hard because of their bodies and the never ending struggle to prevail in a culture where the color of their skin works against them. It does not matter if one has been brought up in the projects, suburbia, or wealthy, gated communities- the struggle is the same. There will always be an undercurrent of fear just below the surface of a bringing a black child into the world and raising him/her free of violence, free of the brutality of an unjust system. There will always be pressure to be a Dreamer to get out and Coates warns people of acting white. He interviews Dr. Mabel Jones, respected radiologist and mother of his murdered classmate Prince Jones. The daughter of sharecroppers, Dr. Jones was determined to make a better life for herself, to the point of integrating a high school and later as an adult sending her children to private schools. Yet despite her dream of her son attending Harvard, he chose Howard, the Mecca for black students who need a space to be themselves, to flaunt their rap and hip hop and African culture. And yet despite this upbringing, her son was still murdered for being black. The advice she gives to Coates, which he pens poignantly, is to still be oneself, to not be afraid to wear a hoodie and to play rap music. To act white is to give into the authority which has already denied the culture for the last 240 years. Between the World and Me is an eye opening experience to me. I had just read In the Heat of the Night where colored officer Virgil Tibbs is denied respect simply for being black. After reading it, I think that we have come a long way as a nation in the past 50 years. Then, I read Coates essay where he bluntly states that as a parent of a black child, he is fearful for him to go out into the world. Have we advanced in 50 years? Coates published this piece in the aftermath of the Michael Brown killing, spurning race riots in Baltimore. The riots got so bad that the city had to be on lockdown, even forcing a baseball game to be played in an empty stadium. This seems to be one step forward, two steps back, and Coates' essay has been distributed at a key moment in our nation's history. I agree with Toni Morrison that Between the World and Me should be required reading in schools. It could turn out to be the definitive discourse on race for this generation and an important read for students before they enter the world at large. It should only take a few hours to read, maybe a little longer for students, and generates important discussions in and out of the classroom. The United States is a melting pot of cultures and no one should have to renounce their culture due to the color of their skin. A poignant read that I rate 5 stars, I highly recommend Between the World and Me to all. ...more Freedom, opportunity and education are all part of being equal citizens in the first world. But these are things of the mind. If you can't even keep the body safe, then what use are intellectual pursuits and a law guaranteeing you rights? And in seems in America that Black people find it very hard to keep their bodies safe. Who goes to prison more for drugs? Black people, although White people commit more drug offences being as they form the bulk of the population. Why is crack cocaine punished m Freedom, opportunity and education are all part of being equal citizens in the first world. But these are things of the mind. If you can't even keep the body safe, then what use are intellectual pursuits and a law guaranteeing you rights? And in seems in America that Black people find it very hard to keep their bodies safe. Who goes to prison more for drugs? Black people, although White people commit more drug offences being as they form the bulk of the population. Why is crack cocaine punished more harshly than cocaine use? Is it because one is a drug of the ghetto and the other of corporate executives? Why is death row filled with more Black people than White when more crimes in general, murder included are by Whites because of their numbers? Why are cops trigger-happy when they see Black people, perhaps especially young men? What does it do to the psyche of Black people when they daily face having to protect their body from harm or death? Even children on the way to school. What did they ever do? You would think that people remembering why Blacks are in the US at all would have a totally different attitude. I have two Black sons. One of them is tall, handsome and loud. He has his own business and always drives very slowly so he can hail everyone he knows. He has beautifully-groomed dreadlocks but is not a rasta, he doesn't do any kind of drugs, he's strictly a Heineken man. I have always dissuaded him from going to the US, go anywhere but there. American cops don't like big Black guys with loud voices and long locks. Go anywhere but the US. The other is wooden boat builder. He in conjunction with the college builds and repairs the traditional wooden boats of the island. His grandfather and family were famous boat builders of three-masted schooners. He also races boats at the highest level, helming for CEOs of banks and visiting diplomats in competitions. He has braids, and sometimes earrings, and likes US ghetto-style clothes complete with gang-style head wrap occasionally (time he grew out of it but still....). Since he is used to giving orders on racing boats for MDs etc and expects them to be followed, he doesn't really have any idea of the respect Blacks are supposed to pay White authority figures in the US as Ta-Nehisi Coates prescribes. He's milder-mannered than his brother, not so loud, always laughing but he can argue, that boy can really argue. I try and dissuade him too from going to the US. I tell him to travel the world but don't go there... I am frightened for my sons, they risk prison at the least with their attitudes, I think a lot of West Indians from professional families have them. I do wonder how they do in the US compared to African-Americans. Coates travelled in Europe and didn't find the institutionalised racism that permeates the US. Racism is there undoubtedly, but it isn't built into every old building that slave labour put up, or every farm that was a plantation, or every school that was once segregated because there was never slavery in Europe. but as Coates writes to his son, this book, this letter, take care of yourself in the US because, frankly, they are out to get to you. The link between then - going after escaped slaves who won't stay in their place and do as they are told and treat the White man with respect. Punish them, make an example of them, and so what if they die in the process? - and now seems to be a very short one. But for some of us, for the author, for my family, we are \"them\". _____ Notes on reading the book. (view spoiler) [ I will be interested to see how much this applies to Blacks in general as I live on an island where the Black man is king, but he only got there because of slavery. Quite a few of the kids go away to university in the US, to 'historically black' colleges and come back full of the most disgusting kind of crap and attitude and forgetting they reign here. Some years ago I had a Saturday girl and she was so fantastic that on her last day, I was off island and told her to lock up and put the keys under the door but when I got back at 7.30 pm she was still there. I asked her why and she said that she wanted to leave the shelves perfectly organised for the next person. When she came back from the US she grew locks and joined with a group of people who call themselves by African names and are always going on about race. My family were in Russia until the 1920s but my skin colour condemns me to them, guilty of slavery as far as she and they are concerned. A guy I know, a Black Muslim, very friendly (although his father is an anti-Semite and tries to get people to buy Texe Marrs books). He used to come and buy books, poetry and philosophy and chat. He went away to the US and when he came back he came to invite me to a poetry reading in the local poetry and drama club. He said that what he had to say was embarrassing but if any of the poems were anti-White, they weren't directed at me. I didn't go. So, yes, I will be interested to see how the Black American views his land and how it has influenced the Caribbean kids who study there. (hide spoiler) ] ...more Folks that love Mr. Coates will love this book, as they'll be able to follow him through a piece that is somewhat indulgent -- but he certainly won't win new fans or quell his skeptics (like myself) with this piece of work. Coates says that he wanted to write like Baldwin, but it just comes across as a unfocused, stream of consciousness. As a black man who constantly battles with the work of Mr. Coates, I wanted to give this one a chance, as many lament tons of praise on the work -- but I for on Folks that love Mr. Coates will love this book, as they'll be able to follow him through a piece that is somewhat indulgent -- but he certainly won't win new fans or quell his skeptics (like myself) with this piece of work. Coates says that he wanted to write like Baldwin, but it just comes across as a unfocused, stream of consciousness. As a black man who constantly battles with the work of Mr. Coates, I wanted to give this one a chance, as many lament tons of praise on the work -- but I for one still think that our perceptions of what it means to be a black man in America today are far different--my own not being one of privilege, but one that gives me much more hope than what Mr. Coates likes to deal out to his readers. ...more An America that looks away is ignoring not just the sins of the past but the sins of the present and the certain sins of the future. The moment I really fell for Ta-Nehisi Coates was during his interview on the Diane Rehm\u2019s show after he was asked his opinions on gun control. The question came after a statement by him about the safety of his son living in Paris as opposed to the United States with regard to the rampant gun violence in the US. Gun control is a very \u2018hot-button\u2019 issue in the US as An America that looks away is ignoring not just the sins of the past but the sins of the present and the certain sins of the future. The moment I really fell for Ta-Nehisi Coates was during his interview on the Diane Rehm\u2019s show after he was asked his opinions on gun control. The question came after a statement by him about the safety of his son living in Paris as opposed to the United States with regard to the rampant gun violence in the US. Gun control is a very \u2018hot-button\u2019 issue in the US as of present, and anything this journalist from The Atlantic said was sure to become another .gif in the meme politics of American social media. Coates gave the classiest of answers possible, declining to address an opinion on gun control due to a confessed lack of proper, journalistic research. He listed many socio-political issues he felt he was well-researched upon enough to give an opinion, but on gun control he lacked a ready-built answer complete with statistics and citation so he felt it would be improper to broadcast his opinion on the matter. As Wittgenstein wrote \u2018 whereof one cannot speak, thereof one must be silent. \u2019 This classy response won me over even more so than his reading from his book Between the World and Me, \u2019 though it is highly recommended you listen to his wonderfully cadenced voice recite the pure poetry that flows through his book\u00b9. The National Book Award winning book is written in the form of a letter to his son\u2014' I would have you be a conscious citizen of this terrible and beautiful world. \u2019\u2014and addresses the issues of racism and racial violence prevalent in the United State and how it is a product of American history itself. \u2018 You cannot forget how much they took from us and how they transfigured our very bodies into sugar, tobacco, cotton, and gold. \u2019 Coates letter is an extraordinarily blunt and honest stance in the depths of storm, highlighting the violent lunacy of racism\u2014\u2018 race is the child of racism, not the father \u2019\u2014opening our eyes to the real immediacy of violence and white privilege in a poise and prose sure to leave readers awestruck in it\u2019s powerful wake. Hate gives identity. The nigger, the fag, the bitch illuminate the border, illuminate what we ostensibly are not, illuminate the Dream of being white, of being a Man. We name the hated strangers and are thus confirmed in the tribe. Around the time I was toying with the idea of picking up this book (I rarely read non-fiction but the rerun of his interview on NPR was the clincher that brought me that very day to a bookstore found on my Wednesday delivery route) I was pulled over one night for a routine traffic stop. The events that followed lead me to understand what the phrase 'check your privilege\u2019 truly meant. To my ignorance, the right, front headlight of my car wasn\u2019t working and when I saw the flashing lights of a county cop I immediately pulled over and fretted over how I would manage to afford the ticket for whatever infraction I had committed. My mind was abuzz with my lack of finances and confusion over what I could possibly have been pulled over for, at no point thinking \u2018this could be the moment my life is ended, my body destroyed.\u2019 The police officer was extremely friendly and helpful. It wasn\u2019t until I was driving away that I realized he never asked for my vehicle registration or even bothered to ask if the car was registered in my name. He asked if I had been drinking and when I smiled and said \u2018not yet, sir\u2019 he laughed and replied \u2018have to ask, don\u2019t worry, I believe you.\u2019 It was a simple experience. In no point was I eyed suspiciously, my car wasn\u2019t searched, the police officer didn\u2019t pull me out readily questioning if I even legally had possession of the car. That was a flat out privilege that I was able to coast through this so easily.. Imagine now, if you will, had I been a different race. Social media has been filled in the recent year with police-cam videos showing black men and women treated with hostility from the get-go in routine stops and many horrifying clips that finish with the officer discharging his weapon into an unarmed black motorist. Undoubtedly, my mind would have been on much more than simply 'oh no, how will I pay for this,\u2019 but more along the anxiety lines of \u2018am I going to be hauled to jail or killed out of this encounter?\u2019 Yes, I had benefited from a moment of White Privilege, and I can\u2019t just walk away from this without reminding those who also benefit from this to keep it in mind, in constant check, and remember that we coexist with those who do not benefit from this. Racism is not merely a simplistic hatred. It is, more often, broad sympathy toward some and broader skepticism toward others... Discussing White Privilege is not about discrediting someone\u2019s shortcomings or problems because they are white as many seem to mistake it, it is not about saying white people are less important, it is simply about remembering that your race has dealt you a different hand. For better or for worse. It\u2019s just about being self aware. Much like how Black Lives Matter does not mean White lives don\u2019t matter, but about reminding you that black lives do matter too in a world that sometimes neglects to think about it, that all lives matter. So you must wake up every morning knowing that no promise is unbreakable, least of all the promise of waking up at all. This is not despair. These are the preferences of the universe itself: verbs over nouns, actions over states, struggle over hope Between the World and Me delivers horrific account after horrific account of what living on the side of those who are destroyed , as he often puts it, simply for not being of the benefiting race. He reminds you of the fear, the hate, the violence and the fury boiling in the reality of the racial problems in America, and reminds you that it is a man-made and perpetuated problem. [A]ll our phrasing--race relations, racial chasm, racial justice, racial profiling, white privilege, even white supremacy--serves to obscure that racism is a visceral experience, that it dislodges brains, blocks airways, rips muscle, extracts organs, cracks bones, breaks teeth. You must never look away from this. Coates refuses to let the issue be sugar-coated and rubs the reader\u2019s nose in the gore and terror of reality to make sure you will not forget it. He does not make apologies. The naysayers frequently like to dismiss the horrible murders mentioned in the book by pointing out that the victim had been committing a crime, yet this is grossly missing the point. Remember the \u2018I can\u2019t breathe!\u2019 incident from a year or so ago, where the man was strangled by a police office responding to him illegally selling cigarettes? His crime in no way negates the fact that his arrest led directly and immediately to his death. \u2018 Sell cigarettes without the proper authority and your body can be destroyed, \u2019 Coates reminds us. The punishment in no way equals the crime. The police officer should not be the judge, jury and executioner, the punishment of death is not theirs to decide. What is worse is that \u2018 The destroyers will rarely be held accountable. Mostly they will receive pensions. \u2019 From Michael Brown to Prince Jones, Coates looks deep into the death of men at the hands of police. \u2018 All you need to understand is that the officer carries with him the power of the American state and the weight of an American legacy, and they necessitate that of the bodies destroyed every year, some wild and disproportionate number of them will be black. \u2019 In order to fully learn a lesson one must not just retain the knowledge but also act upon the knowledge. Don\u2019t just be a sword in it\u2019s scabbard on the battlefield of society. Recognizing white privilege isn\u2019t enough, and neither is writing this review. I must always keep it in mind, recognize it and act with it in each moment and breath like the religiously devout and then reconfigure myself to help others; I must see the message and deliver it for the good of all humankind with each and every action I undertake. I want to take the plunge, to walk that peaceful warrior\u2019s road, and I want you all to walk with me. It\u2019s the only way to a better horizon. Ta-Nehisis Coates emphasizes on one particular race issue, but the message is easily expandable and adaptable to shelter all race, sexual orientation and gender issues under it\u2019s empowering umbrella. I brought a daughter into this world and I don\u2019t want it to be one she will regret having been forced into. This could and should be a world where we don\u2019t see race\u2014it feels necessary to reiterate Ta-Nehisi\u2019s point that race is a symptom, not the infection\u2014or gender, but the human race as a whole. The most common criticisms of Between the World and Me are that he is not saying anything new or, as Eddie Glaude, author of the wonderful Democracy in Black: How Race Still Enslaves the American Soul , states that Ta-Nehisi only questions without offering solutions (far from condemning Ta-Nehisi, Glaude goes on to praise the man for at least asking the right questions in his own interview on the Diane Rehm\u2019s Show). However, what succeeds in heroic fashion for Coates is his infectiously beautiful prose which impregnates the reader with his ideology through the purity of it\u2019s complicated simplicity and power. He opens eyes like a sunrise. We must all take his words to heart. It\u2019s a difficult road, but I\u2019ll take your hand if you\u2019ll take mine and we will squeeze them with the brave reassurance as one would squeeze the hand of a terminal cancer patient. Let us not allow racism to be the tumor of society, let us not fall victim to the fear of the Other. Let us forge a brighter future. 4.5/5 \u2018 You must resist the common urge toward the comforting narrative of divine law, toward fairy tales that imply some irrepressible justice. The enslaved were not bricks in your road, and their lives were not chapters in your redemptive history. They were people turned to fuel for the American machine. Enslavement was not destined to end, and it is wrong to claim our present circumstance\u2014no matter how improved\u2014as the redemption for the lives of people who never asked for the posthumous, untouchable glory of dying for their children. Our triumphs can never compensate for this \u2019 \u00b9 The interview between Coates and Diane Rehm can be found here . ...more This is an extremely important book that should be read. I am late to the party so there is not much for me to say that others haven't. I listened to the audio version of this book. The one thing I will say is that I had to start and stop the audio so many times that I found myself frustrated. I think that I will listen to it again when I am alone with nothing to distract me. For now I'm giving it 4 Stars. It is only a little over 3 hours long and extremely well narrated by the author. People ar This is an extremely important book that should be read. I am late to the party so there is not much for me to say that others haven't. I listened to the audio version of this book. The one thing I will say is that I had to start and stop the audio so many times that I found myself frustrated. I think that I will listen to it again when I am alone with nothing to distract me. For now I'm giving it 4 Stars. It is only a little over 3 hours long and extremely well narrated by the author. People are correct when they say this should be required reading. If you are going to listen to the audio version make sure you have enough time to listen to it in one or two sittings without distractions. Highly recommended to anyone who has yet to read it. ...more 4.5/5 stars! I listened to the audiobook for this, which was superb, I love that the author narrated it. I do think that I would really benefit from re-reading this physically, as at some points I got lost and not everything stuck in my mind. I want to have the chance to take it slow, savour the incredible writing and really feel the power of his words. Reading this book was like being punched in the gut. But it's a blow I hope more people can take because this book needs to be read. Structured as a letter to his teenage son, Ta-Nehisi Coates writes about what it means to be a black man in America. His writing is eloquent and powerful, beautiful and heartbreaking, strident and yet bleak. When I first started reading, I thought I would finish it in one day because the book isn't very long. But it was so provocative that often I could only read a Reading this book was like being punched in the gut. But it's a blow I hope more people can take because this book needs to be read. Structured as a letter to his teenage son, Ta-Nehisi Coates writes about what it means to be a black man in America. His writing is eloquent and powerful, beautiful and heartbreaking, strident and yet bleak. When I first started reading, I thought I would finish it in one day because the book isn't very long. But it was so provocative that often I could only read a few pages before I had to set the book down to think about it more deeply. Coates talks about his childhood, his education, his early days of trying to find work as a writer, the fears he has as a parent, and underneath it all is the issue of race. An especially poignant section was when he wrote about a college friend, Prince Jones, who was shot and killed by police. When Coates writes about the treatment of blacks by police, his simmering anger starts to boil. You would be a man one day, and I could not save you from the unbridgeable distance between you and your future peers and colleagues, who might try to convince you that everything I know, all the things I'm sharing with you here, are an illusion, or a fact of a distant past that need not be discussed. And I could not save you from they police, from their flashlights, their hands, their nightsticks, their guns. Prince Jones, murdered by the men who should have been his security guards, is always with me, and I knew that soon he would be with you ... All my life I'd heard people tell their black boys and black girls to \"be twice as good,\" which is to say \"accept half as much.\" These words would be spoken with a veneer of religious nobility, as though they evidenced some unspoken quality, some undetected courage, when in fact all they evidenced was the gun to our head and the hand in our pocket. That is how we lose our softness. This is how they steal our right to smile. This epistle is about 150 pages long, but there were so many incredible passages that I think I set a record for percentage of pages marked in one book. Here is another remarkable section, which caused me to scrawl HOLY SH*T on the Post-It: The birth of a better world is not ultimately up to you, though I know, each day, there are grown men and women who tell you otherwise. The world needs saving precisely because of the actions of these same men and women. I am not a cynic. I love you, and I love the world, and I love it more with every new inch I discover. But you are a black boy, and you must be responsible for your body in a way that other boys cannot know. Indeed, you must be responsible for the worst actions of other black bodies, which, somehow, will always be assigned to you. And you must be responsible for the bodies of the powerful \u2014 the policeman who cracks you with a nightstick will quickly find his excuse in your furtive movements. And this is not reducible to just you \u2014 the women around you must be responsible for their bodies in a way that you never will know. You have to make peace with the chaos, but you cannot lie. You cannot forget how much they took from us and how they transfigured our very bodies into sugar, tobacco, cotton and gold. After reading that page, I immediately emailed a colleague who teaches an African American Literature course to make sure she knew about this book. She emailed back that she had read it and loved it, and described Coates as being \"the James Baldwin of our time.\" I like that quote, but I think even James Baldwin would be depressed that this book had to be written in 2015. We can be better. More Good Quotes \"I write you in your fifteenth year. I am writing you because this was the year you saw Eric Garner chocked to death for selling cigarettes; because you know now that Renisha McBride was shot for seeking help, that John Crawford was shot down for browsing in a department store. And you have seen men in uniform drive by and murder Tamir Rice, a twelve-year-old child whom they were oath-bound to protect. And you have seen men in the same uniforms pummel Marlene Pinnock, someone's grandmother, on the side of a road. And you know now, if you did not before, that the police departments of your country have been endowed with the authority to destroy your body. It does not matter if the destruction is the result of an unfortunate overreaction. It does not matter if it originates in a misunderstanding. It does not matter if the destruction springs from a foolish policy ... The destroyers will rarely be held accountable. Mostly they will receive pensions. And destruction is merely the superlative form of a dominion whose prerogatives include frisking, detaining, beatings, and humiliations. All of this is common to black people. And all of this is old for black people. No one is held responsible.\" \"To be black in the Baltimore of my youth was to be naked before the elements of the world, before all the guns, fists, knives, crack, rape, and disease. The nakedness is not an error, nor pathology. The nakedness is the correct and intended result of policy, the predictable upshot of people forced for centuries to live under fear. The law did not protect us. And now, in your time, the law has become an excuse for stopping and frisking you, which is to say, for furthering the assault on your body. But a society that protects some people through a safety net of schools, government-backed home loans, and ancestral wealth but can only protect you with the club of criminal justice has either failed at enforcing its good intentions or has succeeded at something much darker. However you call it, the result was our infirmity before the criminal forces of the world. It does not matter if the agent of those forces is white or black \u2014 what matters is our condition, what matters is the system that makes your body breakable.\" \"I think now of the old rule that held that should a boy be set upon in someone else's chancy hood, his friends must stand with him, and they must all take their beating together. I now know that within this edict lay the key to all living. None of us were promised to end the fight on our feet, fists raised to the sky. We could not control our enemies' number, strength, nor weaponry. Sometimes you just caught a bad one. But whether you fought or ran, you did it together, because that is the part that was in our control. What we must never do is willingly hand over our own bodies or the bodies of our friends.\" \"I urge you to struggle. Struggle for the memory of your ancestors. Struggle for wisdom. Struggle for the warmth of The Mecca. Struggle for your grandmother and grandfather, for your name. But do not struggle for the Dreamers. Hope for them. Pray for them, if you are so moved. But do not pin your struggle on their conversion. The Dreamers will have to learn to struggle themselves, to understand that the field for their Dream, the stage where they have painted themselves white, is the deathbed of us all.\" ...more Hmm. A lot to think about here. Stay tuned. Holy shit this book. I broke down into tears on the subway upon finishing the last page. As a very privileged white woman I don't feel like I have much right to talk about this book but I hope when it comes out everyone else talks about it because it is beautiful and devastating and has the potential to be so important. I've read Coates work in the Atlantic for years now and my fundamental impression of him is unchanged. His limited Black liberal anti-racist appeals to White guilt illustrate his total inability to escape the narrow racial essentialist vision of Black identity. Coates in his book reduces America to basically two categories: The Dreamers, (White Americans) and the rest being Black folk. This thinking demonstrates such a pedestrian understanding of America, especially when considering that the \"Em I've read Coates work in the Atlantic for years now and my fundamental impression of him is unchanged. His limited Black liberal anti-racist appeals to White guilt illustrate his total inability to escape the narrow racial essentialist vision of Black identity. Coates in his book reduces America to basically two categories: The Dreamers, (White Americans) and the rest being Black folk. This thinking demonstrates such a pedestrian understanding of America, especially when considering that the \"Empire,\" as Coates once correctly refers to this nation, is headed by a Black president, Attorney General, and Director of Homeland Security. Coates has no explanation for how the \"black bodies\" he often laments, are being crushed by law enforcement mechanisms which are under the legal purview of a Black Woman. His total lack of effective class analysis further demonstrates that Coates has not evolved past a Martin vs. Malcolm understanding of Black America. Coates' inability to explain American oppression outside of mere anti-black racism is also troubling in its banality. No critique of capitalism that explains why it needs racism and a complete lack of materialist analysis outside the totally unoriginal rhetoric of \"America was built on our backs.\" Coates' myopic race speak drivel offers no remedy or policy, simple grievance and complaint. In that way his voice is perfect for our neoliberal age which so perfectly uses identity politics cries for representation in the \"upper management\" cue to maintain the Empire. There are neither original arguments or thoughts in this book. Simply grievance based cries for white attention. ...more I was both very impressed and frustrated with Ta-Nehisi Coates\u2019 Between the World and Me. Written as a letter to his son, Coates presents racism and white privilege as a visceral experience, with much discussion, especially early in the book about what it means to lose your (black) body. I\u2019m not going to explain what Coates means by losing your body; you should read how he frames this in the context of both American history and his own experience. While I intend to re-read the first half of the I was both very impressed and frustrated with Ta-Nehisi Coates\u2019 Between the World and Me. Written as a letter to his son, Coates presents racism and white privilege as a visceral experience, with much discussion, especially early in the book about what it means to lose your (black) body. I\u2019m not going to explain what Coates means by losing your body; you should read how he frames this in the context of both American history and his own experience. While I intend to re-read the first half of the book, the second half feels repetitious. Even though I am convinced that the U.S. still has unresolved structural and institutional problems which allow the continuation of racism and oppression, I don\u2019t feel that Coates offers either a solution or any call to action. If, as Coates points out numerous times, it\u2019s not enough for individuals to recognize how racism operates in this country (and thus act in ways which aren\u2019t prejudiced), what\u2019s the answer? If individuals can\u2019t be a force for change, is it even helpful to recognize white privilege in the first place? 3.5 stars rounded up to 4 stars because (while I may fairly or unfairly want more) I do feel this is a powerful work that should be read. ...more I honestly do not feel right putting a rating on this man's experiences, heartfelt thoughts and wishes for his son. I grew up in Chicago and I have seen more than my fair share of the racial divide. Yet, I have never before read an eye opening book like this one. I am not going to express my views on what I think of what he wrote, my opinions have no place here. This is his viewpoint, shared by many of the black race and that is what I found astonishing, because it gave me an inside look at how I honestly do not feel right putting a rating on this man's experiences, heartfelt thoughts and wishes for his son. I grew up in Chicago and I have seen more than my fair share of the racial divide. Yet, I have never before read an eye opening book like this one. I am not going to express my views on what I think of what he wrote, my opinions have no place here. This is his viewpoint, shared by many of the black race and that is what I found astonishing, because it gave me an inside look at how they feel and why they might react the way they do. Well written, better in some parts than others but yes a must read, regardless of where you stand on the race issue. ...more Between the World and Me Ta-Nehisi Coates- The Author \"The life of the nation is secure only while the nation is honest, truthful, and virtuous\", Frederick Douglas- Writer/American Abolitionist \"One cannot, at once, claim to be superhuman and then plead mortal error. I propose to take our countrymen\u2019s claims of American exceptionalism seriously, which is to say I propose subjecting our country to an exceptional moral standard\". Ta-Nehisi Coates - Between the World and Me ************************* Between the World and Me Ta-Nehisi Coates- The Author \"The life of the nation is secure only while the nation is honest, truthful, and virtuous\", Frederick Douglas- Writer/American Abolitionist \"One cannot, at once, claim to be superhuman and then plead mortal error. I propose to take our countrymen\u2019s claims of American exceptionalism seriously, which is to say I propose subjecting our country to an exceptional moral standard\". Ta-Nehisi Coates - Between the World and Me ****************************************************************************** I've been following Ta-Nehisi Coates 's career as a national correspondent for The Atlantic Magazine for a few years now. Many people agree that he has become one of the most influential voices of his generation, particularly when it comes to writing about social, racial and political issues that affect the African American community in the United States. Coates's 2014 cover story for The Atlantic Magazine titled The Case For Reparations , was one of the most widely discussed pieces published last year, and renewed a national discussion on reparations for American slavery and institutional racism. I rushed to get Between the World and Me the moment it got published. And yet I resisted reading it for a long time, my concern was that I would find it too bleak and depressing, that ultimately it would leave me with more questions than answers and failed to leave me with a positive outlook concerning the crucial problems it addresses. To a certain extend my fears were well-founded. Even for someone who considers herself to be mostly aligned with liberal policies, this was not an easy book to read. Heck, writing this review has been a challenge, why you ask? Because I know that there's not better way to alienate people (probably even perhaps some Goodreads friends?) than to allow yourself to wander too deep into the political minefield that is talking about race issues in America. I found Coates's powerful memoir at times shocking, provocative and controversial. It also turned out to be a compelling and poetic memoir, a frank and moving letter from a concerned father to his 15 year-old son in the times of the \"Black Lives Matter\" movement. Between the World and Me is sort of a extended, written version of \u201cthe talk\", a preemptive conversation many parents of black and minorities children have, coaching them on how to conduct themselves in front of the police. So perhaps Coates can be forgiven for using an urgent and alarmist tone. He writes: Black people love their children with a kind of obsession, you are all we have, and you come to us endangered. I think we would like to kill you ourselves before seeing you killed by the streets that America made. As the mother of two young men of color I can definitely relate. I've had my own version of \"the talk\" with my 19 year-old, who is now driving, dating and starting college; be respectful, if a cop stops you, do not challenge or resist the instructions you are given, don't make any sudden movements that might be interpreted as aggressive or suspicious behavior, etc. Ta-Nehisi Coates and son Samori Of course, this is just one more of the many conversations parents, regardless of race, cultural background or economic status, would have with their children throughout their lifetimes. A list that includes the \"sex and dating talk\", the \"alcohol and drugs talk\", etc. The reason why the first conversation takes precedent over the others is that, doing you best to keep you child alive and away from danger understandably takes priority over any other concerns! When it comes to describing the status of racial relations in America, Coates does not mince words, he conscientiously paints a raw picture for the reader, describing the emotional complexities of black life in this country. There's a tendency in the US media and within our society at large, to describe minority children, and young black men in particular, as menacing, threatening, overly-aggressive beings. It's what Bryan Stevenson on his magnificent memoir Just Mercy: A Story of Justice and Redemption , describes as the \"super predator narrative\". To me some of the most moving passages are the ones where Coates describes the fears and anxiety he experienced as a young man growing up in the streets of Baltimore \"fear ruled everything around me,\u201d he writes, \"and I knew, as all black people do, that this fear was connected to the world out there...\" . Perhaps these men are not \"super-predators\" after all... Author James Baldwin- Coates's book was inspired by Baldwin\u2019s 1963 \"The Fire Next Time\" It took me a while to understand the context and language Coates uses to explain race and racism. He sees racism mostly as an act of physical assault executed on the body, \"Racism , he writes, is a visceral experience, that dislodges brains, blocks airways, rips muscle, extracts organs, cracks bones, breaks teeth.\u201d Coates writes, \"To yell \"black-on-black\" crime\" is to shoot a man and the shame him for bleeding\". Between the World and Me also recalls Coates's journey from his youth growing up in Baltimore, to his college years at Howard College - which he refers to as \"The Mecca\" - to the beginning of his career as a journalist and writer, and to finally becoming a parent. Coates's tendency to, and forgive me for using an over-simplistic allegory here, \"painting whole groups of people - namely white people- with a broad brush\", I am afraid would only serve to perpetuate our differences. On the other hand, it seems obvious that in writing this memoir, the author didn't set out to write a manifesto on racial relations or to provide a laundry list of social and political policies that could helped solve these issues. This is mostly about a father explaining himself to his son -and of course to his larger audience- as best he can what it means to be a black man in America. A couple of weeks ago, after reading Julie's review on this book, we exchanged some comments, touching on the the criticism Coates had received from some of his peers for writing what some considered \"a rhetorical litany of circumstances without a prescriptive mission\" . On that exchange, Julie raised an important point when she said \"some of Coates's African-American contemporaries have taken him to task for painting such a bleak picture of race relations in the US, but I wonder why it's on his shoulders to provide the answers? . Indeed, why do we expect him or anybody else to? I want to finish my review with this powerful quote. It's from the mother of a Florida teenager who was killed by a man at a gas station because he refused to turn down the volume on the music in his car. Coates describes how, during a press conference, the mother turned to his son Samori and said this: \"You exist. You matter. You have value. You have every right to wear your hoodie , to play your music as loud as you want. You have every right to be you. And no one should deter you from being you. You have to be you. And you can never be afraid to be you.\" The fact that Coates wrote this memoir at this particular time, leads me to think that as bleak and pessimist as his worldview seems to be, at some level he must believe there's a chance of reaching enough people to generate empathy, understanding and to ultimately make a difference. Or at least, that's my hope. ...more \u201cI would not have you descend into your own dream. I would have you be a conscious citizen of this terrible and beautiful world.\u201d \u2015 Ta-Nehisi Coates, Between the World and Me Awaken Fellow Dreamers. Ta-Nehisi Coates has written a book that runs the distance from the black body (with all its wounds and fears) and the stars (with its ability to be a conscious citizen of the world). It travels from the mountain peaks of the dreamers, whose mountain is built on the sacred, black bodies, and their dar \u201cI would not have you descend into your own dream. I would have you be a conscious citizen of this terrible and beautiful world.\u201d \u2015 Ta-Nehisi Coates, Between the World and Me Awaken Fellow Dreamers. Ta-Nehisi Coates has written a book that runs the distance from the black body (with all its wounds and fears) and the stars (with its ability to be a conscious citizen of the world). It travels from the mountain peaks of the dreamers, whose mountain is built on the sacred, black bodies, and their dark, spilt blood. Those dreamers who plunder hope, rob time, contort the lives of those it this horrible, terrible, fantastic nation has historically bent, beat, twisted. I read this for a glimpse of the other. I read this to become conscious of my own heritage and responsibilities. I read this because I am taught more by the letter of a peer, a brother, a fellow citizen to his son than I can be without transforming myself or recasting my lot. I need to understand my place so I can understand all places and people. I live with the hope than just a few of those who cry because a fictional Atticus idol was brought down will realize he was always dirty. I live with the hope they will pay attention more to the young black bodies in Chicago, Baltimore, New York, D.C., whose eyes are blindfolded with fear of living among the dreamers. That those few will understand that there exists millions who fight everyday with the wind at their face and hounds always at their heels. I'm glad I read it. I wish there was no need to, but there is no velocity to escape our history and our present. ...more \u201cYou are growing into consciousness, and my wish for you is that you feel no need to constrict yourself to make other people comfortable.\u201d Earlier this year I read several blog posts complaining about the 'plague' of important books, and the annoyance people felt when reviewers told them that a specific book was important*. As if awareness was some awful disease we should avoid at all cost. Well. I don't agree with this. I don't buy in the \"everyone knows and cares about it already\" narrative, \u201cYou are growing into consciousness, and my wish for you is that you feel no need to constrict yourself to make other people comfortable.\u201d Earlier this year I read several blog posts complaining about the 'plague' of important books, and the annoyance people felt when reviewers told them that a specific book was important*. As if awareness was some awful disease we should avoid at all cost. Well. I don't agree with this. I don't buy in the \"everyone knows and cares about it already\" narrative, because it's a lie. The need to separate oneself with other people's issues has never been so obvious than in the previous months, so sorry if I'm hurting some people's feelings when other people's lives are at stake, but I do believe that some books are important and Between the World and Me is definitely one of them. I may review it later, when I feel less disheartened by the world. Until then, you'll have to take my word on it, I guess. \u201cBut all our phrasing\u2014race relations, racial chasm, racial justice, racial profiling, white privilege, even white supremacy\u2014serves to obscure that racism is a visceral experience, that it dislodges brains, blocks airways, rips muscle, extracts organs, cracks bones, breaks teeth. You must never look away from this. You must always remember that the sociology, the history, the economics, the graphs, the charts, the regressions all land, with great violence, upon the body.\u201d * I do agree that dealing with an important issue is not enough to make a great book, but that's another question altogether. ...more A Letter To A Teenage Son A Letter To Me A Letter To You \"Never forget that for 250 years black people were born into chains---whole generations followed by more generations who knew nothing but chains\". \"To be black and beautiful was not a matter for gloating. Being black did not immunize us from history's logic or the lure of the Dream. The writer, and that was what I was becoming, must be wary of every Dream and every nation, even his own nation. Perhaps his own nation more than any other, pr A Letter To A Teenage Son A Letter To Me A Letter To You \"Never forget that for 250 years black people were born into chains---whole generations followed by more generations who knew nothing but chains\". \"To be black and beautiful was not a matter for gloating. Being black did not immunize us from history's logic or the lure of the Dream. The writer, and that was what I was becoming, must be wary of every Dream and every nation, even his own nation. Perhaps his own nation more than any other, precisely because it was his own\". \"The fact of history is that black people have not ---probably no people have ever--- liberated themselves strictly through their own efforts. And every great change in the lives of African-Americans we see the hand of events that were beyond our individual control, events that were not unalloyed goods. You cannot disconnect our emancipation in Northern colonies from the blood spilled in the Revolutionary War, anymore and you can disconnect our emancipation from slavery in the South from the channel houses of the Civil War, anymore than you can disconnect our emancipation from Jim Crow from the genocides of the Second World War. History is not solely in our hands. And still you are called to struggle, not because it assures you victory but because it assures you an honorable and sane life. I am ashamed of how I acted that day, ashamed of endangering your body. But I am not ashamed because I am a bad father, a bad individual or ill mannered. I am ashamed that I made an error, knowing that our errors always cost us more\". \"Had I informed this woman that when she pushed my son, she was acting according to tradition that held black bodies as lesser, her response would likely have been, \"I am not a racist.\" Or maybe not. But my experience in this world has been that people who believe themselves to be white are obsessed with the politics of personnel exoneration. And the word racist, to them, conjures, if not a tobacco-spitting oaf, then something just as fantastic--- an orc, troll, or gorgon\". Coates takes us on a journey in Baltimore, with the Black Mecca of Howard University, New York, and Paris... He tells his son...\"struggle for your grandmother and grandfather, for your name. But do not struggle for the Dreamers. Hope for them. Pray for them, if you are so moved. But do not pin your struggle on their conversation. The Dreamers will have to learn to struggle themselves, to understand that the field for their Dream, the stage where they have painted themselves white, is a deathbed of us all\". The Dream is the same habit that endangers the planet, the same habit that sees our bodies stowed away in prisons and ghettos\". Tips Guidance/Advice Warnings/Awaken ...more Author and journalist Ta-Nehisi Coates unleashes a heated analysis of the profile of the African-American in our times, in his new book Between the World And Me. Written in epistolary form to his teenage son, Samori, he contemplates his personal experiences born and bred in a color-discriminate society, and grapples with how best to encourage him while attacks of whites on the 'black body' (as he puts it) go unpunished - while the Trayvon Martins or the Michael Browns in this country are murdere Author and journalist Ta-Nehisi Coates unleashes a heated analysis of the profile of the African-American in our times, in his new book Between the World And Me. Written in epistolary form to his teenage son, Samori, he contemplates his personal experiences born and bred in a color-discriminate society, and grapples with how best to encourage him while attacks of whites on the 'black body' (as he puts it) go unpunished - while the Trayvon Martins or the Michael Browns in this country are murdered; while black churches in the South are burned down, or black teenagers are assaulted by white police at a pool party. Coates' choice of writing format and impassioned rhetoric of the African American experience strongly recall to mind the words of James Baldwin in his essays The Fire Next Time , in which Baldwin writes to his nephew describing similar concerns of the racial landscape in America, and pled for the condemnation of racism no matter how it's manifested or shrouded. In Notes of A Native Son , Baldwin writes: \"The conundrum of color is the inheritance of every American, be he/she legally or actually Black or White. It is a fearful inheritance, for which untold multitudes, long ago, sold their birthright,\" but as Coates explores what it means to be African American in the 21st century, that his defining feature in this society is, and will always be, his blackness - a 'black body' to be \"taken from you easily, and with little consequence,\" brutalized and destroyed in the streets in \"the war of his whole life,\" - it seems that nothing much has changed in fifty-plus years since Baldwin's book. Coates holds back no punches, his pain is palpable. He writes to his son with anxious caution and his wounds would undeniably resonate with his peers. His anger scorches when he relates the story of his schoolmate friend, Prince Jones, gunned down by an undercover cop in a case of hugely 'mistaken identity'; and his rage sears when recounting the tale of a white woman shoving his then 5 year old son. The disintegration of race relations in light of current events, to be black in a supremely white society, in Coates's view, is to live in constant fear because \"destroying the black body was permissible.\" What of the future of his teenage son? Does he matter, does he have value? Would he feel free and unafraid to wear his hoodie, or, have the right, like any American teenager, to play his music as loud as he wants..to not be afraid to be himself? \"I have spent much of my studies searching for the right question by which I might fully understand the breach between the world and me. I have not spent my time studying the problem of 'race' - 'race' itself is just a restatement and retrenchment of the problem.\" - Ta-Nehisi Coates Coates, who does little to tone down the anger on these pages, toes past the line when suggesting that the 'Civil Right Movement' was but a myth, a notion in a Dreamer's ideals, and sometimes descends into a wearying lamentation he would later struggle to climb out of. He comes to consider that freedom for the African American, to be educated and to raise a family without fear, to live a life worked hard for, without anxiety or threat of violence, is in his lifetime a fallacy - a mournful perception of the state of this country. Without question racism is still extremely present, entrenched in a society that fails to understand it and buried in a fatally flawed judicial system, but one cannot help consider how it was over 150 years ago. Remember the forebears who broke out of chains, who stepped forward to the frontseat of the bus, who walked through the front doors of an all- white college for the first time; who are doctors, lawmakers and supreme court justices, leaders of States and a president of a leading country. Hold on to that faith which your forebears clung to and the ideals they died horribly for; raise your head up, use your voice and pen, evoke the ballot, and choose not to set back those 150 years: you have that right - the alternate scenario is too distressing to allow. Baldwin's words may be the talk of a Dreamer to Coates who is jaded by the 'myth', but they are important to meditate, and offer the spiritual advice to readers who may not find such a message in this book: I am very much concerned that American Negroes achieve their freedom here in the United States. But I am also concerned for their dignity, for the health of their souls, and must oppose any attempt that Negroes may make to do to others what has been done to them. I think I know --we see it around us every day --the spiritual wasteland to which that road leads. It is so simple a fact and one that is so hard, apparently, to grasp: Whoever debases others is debasing himself. That is not a mystical statement but a most realistic one, which is proved by the eyes of any Alabama sheriff --and I would not like to see Negroes ever arrive at so wretched a condition. - James Baldwin, The Fire Next Time ...more I write this review with very conflicted feelings. I started to say that I acknowledge this book was not written for me, it was written as a letter from a father to a son. From one man to another, almost-man. From a black American to another. But then I realized that of course, it is for me, because it is out there, in the world, in libraries, bookstores, written by a journalist-writer-poet who has just received a MacArthur \"Genius\" grant, who is interviewed, speaks out, a voice that wants to be I write this review with very conflicted feelings. I started to say that I acknowledge this book was not written for me, it was written as a letter from a father to a son. From one man to another, almost-man. From a black American to another. But then I realized that of course, it is for me, because it is out there, in the world, in libraries, bookstores, written by a journalist-writer-poet who has just received a MacArthur \"Genius\" grant, who is interviewed, speaks out, a voice that wants to be heard, read, discussed. And then I realize that of all the people who should read Between the World and Me , it is those who think this book isn't for them; i.e. white people. So, Between the World and Me belongs to all of us now, regardless of gender, race, family status. It arrives at a delicate, urgent, complicated time when race is again part of our national conversation, somehow having fallen away over the years until it became clear that the only people who stopped talking about race were those who'd be happier pretending it just doesn't matter. But then the voices of Roxane Gay and Ta-Nehisi Coates, of Michelle Alexander and Bryan Stevenson come along, fresh, ringing loudly, or we start to notice the voices that have long been there, like Claudia Rankine and Yusef Komunyakaa, and we are captivated. After reading James Baldwin's The Fire Next Time , Coates was inspired to write a similar \"open letter\" to his son, a conversation about the expression of racism in American, from the 17th century slave trade to the 21st century killings of unarmed black men that galvanized the Black Lives Matter movement. To me it seemed that Between the World and Me is Part One of that conversation, a rhetorical litany of circumstances without a prescriptive mission. In his work with The Atlantic magazine , Coates has written so definitively about reparations for slavery, about mass incarceration, redlining, structural racism, the myth of colorblindness and \"post-racial\" America, that my expectations of Between the World and Me fell along similar lines. Unfairly, perhaps. But I often felt almost mired in the beauty of Coates's prose that I lost the urgency of his message. It struck me that perhaps the defining feature of being drafted into the black race was the inescapable robbery of time, because the moments we spent readying the mask, or readying ourselves to accept half as much, could not be recovered. The robbery of time is not measured in lifespans but in the moments we lose. It is the last bottle of wine that you have just uncorked but do not have time to drink. It is the second kiss that you do not have time to share, before she walks out of your life. It is the raft of second chances for them, and twenty-three-hour days for us. But perhaps setting aside my expectations and once again, learning (over and over I have to be reminded of this) that what I must do is listen, rather than searching for the answers, the fix, is the point. It's not up to Coates, or any other voice of color, to find answers, to change things. That's between the world and me. ...more Thank you, Mr. Coates, for letting me listen in on your letter to your son. My reality is very different from your son's reality, but I do try to understand the world I live in. By sharing your lyrical insights, you helped me see, you moved me, you angered me, you made me feel at times big and at times small, you made me feel exasperated, you puzzled me, you spoke to me, you lost me, you made me nod and smile for example when you wrote of your love of books, learning and writing, you wowed me wi Thank you, Mr. Coates, for letting me listen in on your letter to your son. My reality is very different from your son's reality, but I do try to understand the world I live in. By sharing your lyrical insights, you helped me see, you moved me, you angered me, you made me feel at times big and at times small, you made me feel exasperated, you puzzled me, you spoke to me, you lost me, you made me nod and smile for example when you wrote of your love of books, learning and writing, you wowed me with your crazy clever mind and prose, you made me think and feel, you made me examine myself, you made me examine my friends, neighbours and colleagues, you made me despair and you made me marginally hopeful. Thanks. Your book completely deserves all the recognition it is getting. ...more Penetrating. For some a revelation, for others an affirmation of something we've always known and felt. A must-read. \u201cMy work is to give you what I know of my own particular path while allowing you to walk your own.\u201d In a series of essays, written as a letter to his son, Coates confronts the notion of race in America and how it has shaped American history, many times at the cost of black bodies and lives. I listened to this as an audiobook and I cannot imagine having read listened it any differently. The writer's words left a profound mark on me. And I feel as if my own words won't do justice to these essays, so \u201cMy work is to give you what I know of my own particular path while allowing you to walk your own.\u201d In a series of essays, written as a letter to his son, Coates confronts the notion of race in America and how it has shaped American history, many times at the cost of black bodies and lives. I listened to this as an audiobook and I cannot imagine having read listened it any differently. The writer's words left a profound mark on me. And I feel as if my own words won't do justice to these essays, so I'm going to share some of the profound quotes and passages that left me with an array of warring emotions: Essay I: \u201cBut all our phrasing\u2014race relations, racial chasm, racial justice, racial profiling, white privilege, even white supremacy\u2014serves to obscure that racism is a visceral experience, that it dislodges brains, blocks airways, rips muscle, extracts organs, cracks bones, breaks teeth. You must never look away from this. You must always remember that the sociology, the history, the economics, the graphs, the charts, the regressions all land, with great violence, upon the body.\u201d \u201cIt was not my expectation that anyone would ever be punished. But you were young and still believed. You stayed up till 11 P.M. that night, waiting for the announcement of an indictment, and when instead it was announced that there was none you said, \u201cI\u2019ve got to go,\u201d and you went into your room, and I heard you crying.\u201d This made the indistinct sadness well up in me. \u201cLater, I would hear it in Dad\u2019s voice\u2014\u201cEither I can beat him, or the police.\u201d Maybe that saved me. Maybe it didn\u2019t. All I know is, the violence rose from the fear like smoke from a fire, and I cannot say whether that violence, even administered in fear and love, sounded the alarm or choked us at the exit.\u201d \u201cI don\u2019t know what it means to grow up with a black president, social networks, omnipresent media, and black women everywhere in their natural hair. What I know is that when they loosed the killer of Michael Brown, you said, \u201cI\u2019ve got to go.\u201d And that cut me because, for all our differing worlds, at your age my feeling was exactly the same.\u201d \u201cAlgebra, Biology, and English were not subjects so much as opportunities to better discipline the body, to practice writing between the lines, copying the directions legibly, memorizing theorems extracted from the world they were created to represent. All of it felt so distant to me. I remember sitting in my seventh-grade French class and not having any idea why I was there.\u201d \u201cWhy, precisely, was I sitting in this classroom? The question was never answered. I was a curious boy, but the schools were not concerned with curiosity. They were concerned with compliance. I loved a few of my teachers. But I cannot say that I truly believed any of them. \u201d \u201cI devoured the books because they were the rays of light peeking out from the doorframe, and perhaps past that door there was another world, one beyond the gripping fear that undergirded the Dream.\u201d \u201cThe pursuit of knowing was freedom to me, the right to declare your own curiosities and follow them through all manner of books. I was made for the library, not the classroom. The classroom was a jail of other people\u2019s interests. The library was open, unending, free.\u201d \u201cIn my small apartment, she kissed me, and the ground opened up, swallowed me, buried me right there in that moment. How many awful poems did I write thinking of her?\u201d \u201cYou were born that August. I thought of the great spectrum of The Mecca\u2014black people from Belize, black people with Jewish mothers, black people with fathers from Bangalore, black people from Toronto and Kingston, black people who spoke Russian, who spoke Spanish, who played Mongo Santamar\u00eda, who understood mathematics and sat up in bone labs, unearthing the mysteries of the enslaved. There was more out there than I had ever hoped for, and I wanted you to have it.\u201d \u201cNever forget that we were enslaved in this country longer than we have been free. Never forget that for 250 years black people were born into chains\u2014whole generations followed by more generations who knew nothing but chains.\u201d \u201cYou have to make your peace with the chaos, but you cannot lie. You cannot forget how much they took from us and how they transfigured our very bodies into sugar, tobacco, cotton, and gold.\u201d Essay II: \u201cThe truth is that the police reflect America in all of its will and fear, and whatever we might make of this country\u2019s criminal justice policy, it cannot be said that it was imposed by a repressive minority.\u201d \u201cNow at night, I held you and a great fear, wide as all our American generations, took me. Now I personally understood my father and the old mantra\u2014\u201cEither I can beat him or the police.\u201d I understood it all\u2014the cable wires, the extension cords, the ritual switch. Black people love their children with a kind of obsession. You are all we have, and you come to us endangered. I think we would like to kill you ourselves before seeing you killed by the streets that America made. \u201d \u201cIt was only after you that I understood this love, that I understood the grip of my mother\u2019s hand. She knew that the galaxy itself could kill me, that all of me could be shattered and all of her legacy spilled upon the curb like bum wine.\u201d \u201cSo I feared not just the violence of this world but the rules designed to protect you from it, the rules that would have you contort your body to address the block, and contort again to be taken seriously by colleagues, and contort again so as not to give the police a reason. All my life I\u2019d heard people tell their black boys and black girls to \u201cbe twice as good,\u201d which is to say \u201caccept half as much.\u201d \u201cIt only takes one person to make a change,\u201d you are often told. This is also a myth. Perhaps one person can make a change, but not the kind of change that would raise your body to equality with your countrymen.\u201d \u201cOur current politics tell you that should you fall victim to such an assault and lose your body, it somehow must be your fault. Trayvon Martin\u2019s hoodie got him killed. Jordan Davis\u2019s loud music did the same. John Crawford should never have touched the rifle on display. Kajieme Powell should have known not to be crazy. And all of them should have had fathers\u2014even the ones who had fathers, even you. Without its own justifications, the Dream would collapse upon itself. You first learned this from Michael Brown. I first learned it from Prince Jones.\u201d Essay III: \u201cI have never asked how you became personally aware of the distance. Was it Mike Brown? I don\u2019t think I want to know. But I know that it has happened to you already, that you have deduced that you are privileged and yet still different from other privileged children, because you are the bearer of a body more fragile than any other in this country. \u201d Listening and reading Between the World and Me completely shifted my worldview. I read it last weekend and I swear, it will haunt me for weeks to come. I also love that there were pictures scattered throughout the book. 4.5/5 stars *Note: I'm an Amazon Affiliate. If you're interested in buying Between the World and Me , just click on the image below to go through my link. I'll make a small commission!* This review and more can be found on my blog. ...more This is a letter from an African American father to his son. It's rare that I read something this powerful. Coates is an amazing writer who offers new ideas and much food for thought. It begins with \"Son, Last Sunday the host of a popular news show asked me what it meant to lose my body.\" Or, how about this, \"But all our phrasing - race relations, racial chasm, racial justice, racial profiling, white privilege, even white supremacy - serves to obscure that racism is a visceral experience, that i This is a letter from an African American father to his son. It's rare that I read something this powerful. Coates is an amazing writer who offers new ideas and much food for thought. It begins with \"Son, Last Sunday the host of a popular news show asked me what it meant to lose my body.\" Or, how about this, \"But all our phrasing - race relations, racial chasm, racial justice, racial profiling, white privilege, even white supremacy - serves to obscure that racism is a visceral experience, that it dislodges brains, blocks airways, rips muscle, extracts organs, cracks bones, breaks teeth.\" I was literally transfixed to each page, and think it was one of my most important reads of the year. Highly recommended! ...more This should be required reading in the United States of America, just as Talking To My Country should be required reading here in Australia, especially during this dark and uncertain time. \u201cBut race is the child of racism, not the father. And the process of naming \u201cthe people\u201d has never been a matter of genealogy and physiognomy so much as one of hierarchy. Difference in hue and hair is old. But the belief in the preeminence of hue and hair, the notion that these factors can correctly organize a This should be required reading in the United States of America, just as Talking To My Country should be required reading here in Australia, especially during this dark and uncertain time. \u201cBut race is the child of racism, not the father. And the process of naming \u201cthe people\u201d has never been a matter of genealogy and physiognomy so much as one of hierarchy. Difference in hue and hair is old. But the belief in the preeminence of hue and hair, the notion that these factors can correctly organize a society and that they signify deeper attributes, which are indelible\u2014this is the new idea at the heart of these new people who have been brought up hopelessly, tragically, deceitfully, to believe that they are white.\u201d \u201cBut all our phrasing\u2014race relations, racial chasm, racial justice, racial profiling, white privilege, even white supremacy\u2014serves to obscure that racism is a visceral experience, that it dislodges brains, blocks airways, rips muscle, extracts organs, cracks bones, breaks teeth. You must never look away from this. You must always remember that the sociology, the history, the economics, the graphs, the charts, the regressions all land, with great violence, upon the body.\u201d \u201cYou must resist the common urge toward the comforting narrative of divine law, toward fairy tales that imply some irrepressible justice. The enslaved were not bricks in your road, and their lives were not chapters in your redemptive history. They were people turned to fuel for the American machine. Enslavement was not destined to end, and it is wrong to claim our present circumstance\u2014no matter how improved\u2014as the redemption for the lives of people who never asked for the posthumous, untouchable glory of dying for their children. Our triumphs can never compensate for this.\u201d ...more<---C>Ta-Nehisi Coates</---C>", "Title": "Between the World and Me"},
