{"Comments": "Did you ever go to a Tupperware party where the hostess spent forever demonstrating all the gadgets in a dramatically effervescent voice? And at the end nobody bought anything? And there weren't even any refreshments being served to make it worth having shown up? And you didn't like any of the other people who came to the party? This book is that party---all elaborate demonstration,<---M> no sale</---M>, no refreshment, and no one I care about. I adored <---A>Kate Morton</---A>\u2019s The House At Riverton and The Forgotten Garden , giving them both 5 stars, but delayed reading <+++>The Distant Hours</+++> after hearing so many bad reviews about it from people who, like me, loved those earlier books. I finally decided to take the plunge, hoping to disagree with the bad reviews.<---F> Sadly, I don't</---F>. <+++>The Distant Hours</+++> is packed full of unnecessary detail and description. On and on it goes, page after page of long-winded waffle, page after page of no dialogue, no action an I adored Kate Morton\u2019s The House At Riverton and The Forgotten Garden , giving them both 5 stars, but delayed reading The Distant Hours after hearing so many bad reviews about it from people who, like me, loved those earlier books. I finally decided to take the plunge, hoping to disagree with the bad reviews. Sadly, I don't. The Distant Hours is packed full of unnecessary detail and description. On and on it goes, page after page of long-winded waffle, page after page of no dialogue, no action and no furthering of the plot. I can see that she was trying to create an atmospheric literary piece, but I think she tried too hard to be too clever, entirely at the expense of the actual story. Had this been my first Morton book, it would have also been my last. In fact, had it had been my first, I\u2019d have abandoned it before the half way point. I stuck with it through 'loyalty' to Morton, and skim-read it in the hope that the 'real' author would eventually appear, and give me her usual tantalising, goose-bump inducing reveal. She did not. When the reveal finally limped in, I just thought, 'yeah, whatever.' The sad thing is, it could have been so good. It has all the right elements: three mysterious elderly spinster sisters who live in an imposing castle; the memory of their haunted and troubled father; a lover who\u2019s been missing for 50 years; a woman who lived in the castle in her teens but has never talked of it since; various secondary characters with hints of their own secrets. It so easily could have been another intriguing, suspenseful, excellent Morton book. Hugely frustrating. ...more I loved Morton's earlier novel, The Forgotten Garden , and had high expectations for this one as well. If this book wasn't tailored made for my reading tastes, I don't know what would be: - Ancient castle in the bucholic English countryside - Past and present plotlines weaving and intersecting - Homage to books, readers and the written word - Gothic elements galore (including madness, forbidden love, family secrets, a lost letter, and a creepy children's story) However, by the end of this massive 560 I loved Morton's earlier novel, The Forgotten Garden , and had high expectations for this one as well. If this book wasn't tailored made for my reading tastes, I don't know what would be: - Ancient castle in the bucholic English countryside - Past and present plotlines weaving and intersecting - Homage to books, readers and the written word - Gothic elements galore (including madness, forbidden love, family secrets, a lost letter, and a creepy children's story) However, by the end of this massive 560 page book, I was left closing the back cover with what I am sure was a comical \"What-the-****-?\" look on my face. Seriously, I concur with so many other disappointed reviewers that this book needed major red pencil attention by the editors. Morton is a gifted writer, but this book suffered from too much literary cleverness at the expense of what should have been a gripping and taunt gothic mystery. It's not enough that she can write strings of beautiful sentences; there needs to be a satisfying conclusion to such a whopping tome that I've invested loads of not-so-distant hours toward finishing. This time, the Morton magic didn't happen for me. ...more I welled up when this book ended & not just because I hated to see it end. One could weep over the sad lives of the 3 Blythe sisters, now elderly, & living with secrets that are beautifully & gradually revealed. The story jumps from the 1990's in London to the Milderhurst Castle during W.W.II and the present. When Edie Burchill encounters the 3 elderly sisters she is drawn into a family of secrets, whose \"distant hours\" are simply a wonder to read. It may be the best I've read since I welled up when this book ended & not just because I hated to see it end. One could weep over the sad lives of the 3 Blythe sisters, now elderly, & living with secrets that are beautifully & gradually revealed. The story jumps from the 1990's in London to the Milderhurst Castle during W.W.II and the present. When Edie Burchill encounters the 3 elderly sisters she is drawn into a family of secrets, whose \"distant hours\" are simply a wonder to read. It may be the best I've read since \"The Help\". ...more I abandoned the effort to read The Distant Hours about a third of the way in. I don\u2019t know quite what to make of Kate Morton, whose writing (at least for me) gets increasingly annoying with every book she publishes. At some point she has begun to confuse languor with atmosphere, and the pace of this book is like sitting on the leading edge of an advancing glacier. It could be millennia before it gets where it\u2019s going. Morton is plainly far more interested in the details of setting and landscape I abandoned the effort to read The Distant Hours about a third of the way in. I don\u2019t know quite what to make of Kate Morton, whose writing (at least for me) gets increasingly annoying with every book she publishes. At some point she has begun to confuse languor with atmosphere, and the pace of this book is like sitting on the leading edge of an advancing glacier. It could be millennia before it gets where it\u2019s going. Morton is plainly far more interested in the details of setting and landscape than in narrative and character, and consequently she spends far more time on description and explanation than on dialogue or action, with the result that I started to feel as if I were having a guided tour of a novel instead of reading one. This is all the more frustrating because somewhere under all the visual detail there\u2019s a story I was kind of interested in hearing, but she just wore me down with page after page after page of rambling, stylistically torpid journeys through landscapes both external and internal. I gave up after a two and half page description of someone looking for a pile of laundry. Life is just too short. ...more Is Kate Morton a women's writer? As an Ann Tyler and Maeve Binchy fan, I wouldn't know. I loved Morton's previous two books, and this one is even better. Flying back and forth in time between the evacuation of children from London prior to the blitz of 1941 and the modern day (1992), Book editor Edie Burchill uncovers the truth behind the creation of \"The True History of the Mud Man,\" a spectacularly successful children's story written by the patriarch of Milderhurst Castle in Kent, now in the p Is Kate Morton a women's writer? As an Ann Tyler and Maeve Binchy fan, I wouldn't know. I loved Morton's previous two books, and this one is even better. Flying back and forth in time between the evacuation of children from London prior to the blitz of 1941 and the modern day (1992), Book editor Edie Burchill uncovers the truth behind the creation of \"The True History of the Mud Man,\" a spectacularly successful children's story written by the patriarch of Milderhurst Castle in Kent, now in the possession of the \"Sisters Blythe,\" three characters truly wrecked by their father and their connection to the baleful book he wrote. Central to the complex and thoroughly gripping plot is Edie's mother, who was thirteen when she was evacuated in the war to Milderhurst and became entwined in the drama. Her part of the tale is only one of the things Edie discovers. Morton writes great characters and provides them with intelligent and utterly believable dialog. The slow unraveling of the plot is a delight, and I read this one in three evenings flat. ...more I have recently finished reading this book and I just loved it! I had it finished in a week. A few times a got a little frustrated wanting to know the secrets but the wait was well worth it. There are a lot of secrets in this book. I was worried it wasn't going to stack up to her two previous books due to some 'not so good' reviews I've read and heard. This book is a lot darker than her other two, but similar in the switching back and forth from the present to the past. Again, I love the way she I have recently finished reading this book and I just loved it! I had it finished in a week. A few times a got a little frustrated wanting to know the secrets but the wait was well worth it. There are a lot of secrets in this book. I was worried it wasn't going to stack up to her two previous books due to some 'not so good' reviews I've read and heard. This book is a lot darker than her other two, but similar in the switching back and forth from the present to the past. Again, I love the way she tells a story and this is a fabulous story to read. Remember though, it is a dark book and she does take her time building the characters but it was one hell of a read. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did. It all starts with a lost letter delivered to <---C>Edith</---C>\u2019s Mum, Meredith. The letter has been lost for 50 years. The letter is from Juniper Blythe who is now an eldery lady. Juniper and her twin sisters took Meredith in during the 1940 London Blitz and here the story begins of Middlehurst Castle and the secrets within it's walls...... ...more If I only read one book this fall, I decided months ago, it would have to be The Distant Hours by Kate Morton. Kate Morton\u2019s debut novel, The House of Riverton, held me so spellbound that as soon as I finished it, I read it again. Despite the fact that The House of Riverton left me emotionally drained, I eagerly pre-ordered her next novel, The Forgotten Garden, and devoured it in one sitting, heedless of the late hour and lack of sleep, when it finally came. I'm glad to report that her third eff If I only read one book this fall, I decided months ago, it would have to be The Distant Hours by Kate Morton. Kate Morton\u2019s debut novel, The House of Riverton, held me so spellbound that as soon as I finished it, I read it again. Despite the fact that The House of Riverton left me emotionally drained, I eagerly pre-ordered her next novel, The Forgotten Garden, and devoured it in one sitting, heedless of the late hour and lack of sleep, when it finally came. I'm glad to report that her third effort, The Distant Hours, was just as compulsively readable and captivating as the first two. Everything I loved in The House at Riverton and The Forgotten Garden, and have come to expect from Kate Morton, is in The Distant Hours. First, there's always a mystery that unfolds in lush, gothic detail, usually in a bygone era. Here, a letter sent during World War II arrives 50 years later. Like a siren call from the past, Edie is compelled to find Milderhurst Castle and discover the fate of the Sisters Blythe, Juniper, Persephone, and Seraphina. Aristocratic beauties in their day, what has happened to the Sisters Blythe over the years and what precipitated their tragic decay reminds me a bit of Grey Gardens mixed with We Have Always Lived at the Castle. So lovely and promising in their youth, they are now old women who never escaped the mouldy castle of their forebears, their dreams strangled by a mysterious tragedy 50 years before. \u201cHave you ever wondered what the stretch of time smells like? I can\u2019t say I had, not before I set foot inside Milderhurst Castle, but I certainly know now. Mould and ammonia, a pinch of lavender and a fair whack of dust, the mass disintergration of very old sheets of paper. And there\u2019s something else too, something underlying it all, something verging on rotten or stewed but not. It took me a while to work out what that smell was, but I think I know now. It\u2019s the past. Thoughts and dreams, hopes and hurts, all brewed together, shifting in the stagnant air, unable to dissipate completely.\u201d The long shadows cast by their controlling father, a celebrated novelist, and his most famous work, The True History of the Mud Man, over their lives has something to do with why the Sisters Blythe have never left the castle. Morton, as usual, is adept at weaving subtle strands and hints so that even as the reader uncovers more and more of the mystery, the final reveal is devastating and unexpected. Hint - within the short, haunting excerpt from the Mud Man tale in the beginning of the book are symbolic clues as to the dark history and future of the Sisters Blythe. Love affairs cut tragically short; age-old secrets waiting to be discovered; suspenseful, atmospheric setting; and writing that left me breathless - The Distant Hours enthralled me to the very end. ...more Un relato exquisito, una narraci\u00f3n que envuelve los sentidos. Entra en la categor\u00eda de aquellas obras que terminas sin darte cuenta. Es un libro de amores y desamores, de admiraci\u00f3n y decepci\u00f3n, de respeto e intolerancia. Un secreto familiar que sale a la luz de la forma m\u00e1s inesperada, a trav\u00e9s del poder de las letras contenidas en una carta abierta por casualidad cincuenta a\u00f1os m\u00e1s tarde de lo previsto, y letras que trascienden m\u00e1s all\u00e1 de las propias p\u00e1ginas del libro que las contiene. Porque Un relato exquisito, una narraci\u00f3n que envuelve los sentidos. Entra en la categor\u00eda de aquellas obras que terminas sin darte cuenta. Es un libro de amores y desamores, de admiraci\u00f3n y decepci\u00f3n, de respeto e intolerancia. Un secreto familiar que sale a la luz de la forma m\u00e1s inesperada, a trav\u00e9s del poder de las letras contenidas en una carta abierta por casualidad cincuenta a\u00f1os m\u00e1s tarde de lo previsto, y letras que trascienden m\u00e1s all\u00e1 de las propias p\u00e1ginas del libro que las contiene. Porque La verdadera historia del hombre de barro , obra ficticia de la novela cuyo pr\u00f3logo se nos aparece nada m\u00e1s abrir Las horas distantes , se convierte en un protagonista m\u00e1s; ya quisiera que fuera real para poder leerlo. Es primera vez que leo algo de esta autora y me ha sorprendido mucho, sobre todo en la habilidad de hacer encajar todas las piezas de una forma muy fluida, cada una en su justa medida y sin dejar cabos sueltos. Realmente fue un gran descubrimiento y estoy ansiosa de poder leer sus otras novelas que, por la opini\u00f3n de otros lectores, superan a Las horas distantes . ...more I opet odli\u010dna Kate Morton! U njezino sam se pisanje zaljubila uz knjigu \"Zaboravljeni vrt\", ali mogu re\u0107i da su mi i \"Davni trenuci\" na istoj razini kvalitete. Volim tu njezinu mistiku, tajne koje se otkrivaju, ozra\u010dje veli\u010danstvenih, starih zdanja zidova punih knjiga i slika, a svako od kojih krije neispri\u010dane i bri\u017eno skrivane sudbine svojih \u017eitelja. Ovaj puta pratim pri\u010du triju sestara, sada ve\u0107 starijih dama, koje su svoje \u017eivote provele na obiteljskom imanju, u dvorcu Mildehurst \u010dije zidine I opet odli\u010dna Kate Morton! U njezino sam se pisanje zaljubila uz knjigu \"Zaboravljeni vrt\", ali mogu re\u0107i da su mi i \"Davni trenuci\" na istoj razini kvalitete. Volim tu njezinu mistiku, tajne koje se otkrivaju, ozra\u010dje veli\u010danstvenih, starih zdanja zidova punih knjiga i slika, a svako od kojih krije neispri\u010dane i bri\u017eno skrivane sudbine svojih \u017eitelja. Ovaj puta pratim pri\u010du triju sestara, sada ve\u0107 starijih dama, koje su svoje \u017eivote provele na obiteljskom imanju, u dvorcu Mildehurst \u010dije zidine skrivaju \u0161okantna zbivanja iz pro\u0161losti. Sve po\u010dinje jednim pismom, koje je tek nakon punih 50 god. isporu\u010deno svom primatelju i s kojim po\u010dinje ova prekrasna pri\u010da koja nas, stranicu po stranicu sve vi\u0161e privla\u010di u sebe. Pisano u maniri starih majstora pripovijedanja (ali, uz majstorsko isprepletanje sa suvremenim detaljima); atmosfera Orkanskih visova, Jane Eyre i sl. uspje\u0161nica mislim da Kate Morton malo kojeg pravog ljubitelja pisane rije\u010di mo\u017ee ostaviti ravnodu\u0161nim. \u010citajte i u\u017eivajte... ...more I can't say enough about this book. It's not a happy one, so don't go into it thinking you're going to get a sweet happily ever after. No, that's not really Kate Morton's style. But beautifully lyrical prose and an almost unnerving talent for atmosphere makes this, on the surface a beautiful read. What's not so obvious is that Morton's talent for crafting intricately layered, interesting characters is superb. She presents you with a certain set of traits for each character that cause you to draw I can't say enough about this book. It's not a happy one, so don't go into it thinking you're going to get a sweet happily ever after. No, that's not really Kate Morton's style. But beautifully lyrical prose and an almost unnerving talent for atmosphere makes this, on the surface a beautiful read. What's not so obvious is that Morton's talent for crafting intricately layered, interesting characters is superb. She presents you with a certain set of traits for each character that cause you to draw a hasty conclusion about their personality only to pull the rug out from under you later and completely destroy your preconceived notions. Each character shifts, grows, becomes more three-dimensional as you delve further into the story, and that's just what characters in a story should do. The story itself is sad. A love affair whose reverberations continue fifty years into the future and affect quite a few people. But it's also a reminder to live your life for yourself, to let go of fear and the machinations of others, to love those around you, but not to allow that love to suffocate you. It's a reminder that love isn't always a grand thing, but sometimes it's all we've got. ...more Ancient walls that sing the Distant Hours. The story meanders a bit, taking its time letting you into the world of the Sisters Blythe and their father Raymond, Edie and her mum. It splits between 1941 and 1992, introducing everyone as it pleases. It all starts when Edie's mother Meredith, gets a long lost letter in the mail from someone she didn't expect to hear from. We find out who and what later on, but this piece of mail starts Edie down the trail of her mom from long ago, during World War Tw Ancient walls that sing the Distant Hours. The story meanders a bit, taking its time letting you into the world of the Sisters Blythe and their father Raymond, Edie and her mum. It splits between 1941 and 1992, introducing everyone as it pleases. It all starts when Edie's mother Meredith, gets a long lost letter in the mail from someone she didn't expect to hear from. We find out who and what later on, but this piece of mail starts Edie down the trail of her mom from long ago, during World War Two. By chance (or is it?) she stumbles upon Middlehurst castle after getting lost and impulsively decides to stay the night. Middlehurst... you can feel the secrecy, regrets, and emotion in this place stretching out it's fingers to you from the past, beckoning you in. It's a feeling hard to describe but some of it is loneliness and pain... but nothing as simple either. One of the many things I loved about this book both times I read it is the lack of predictability. Each time I thought I had a piece of the story figured out, something else would pop up and change my perception. Tragedy colors the novel but also laughter, determination, and hope. Even with the hope, sometimes it felt like a shadow was in the corner, waiting for it's turn to walk in. Secrets and betrayal ripple throughout,one seeming to stretch from another and shape someone else's fate in some cases. One instance or two the people involved thought it was done with best intentions but find themselves carrying a heavy burden. I felt for each of the Sisters in different ways but most of all for Juniper... the person she was then and how we meet her in present day... *hugs her gently* Like Mister Carlos Ruiz Zafon (though their styles are wonderfully different), Kate Morton has a way of weaving her tapestry of people and places, building atmosphere and tension. It's a wonderful feeling to let go and disappear into the rich and complex world of this, dreading and yet really wanting to know what happened to set everyone on the path that led to present day. Once again, words fail to say how this book affected me... this was the introduction to Miss Morton's writing for me, another one of those chance finds on the shelf at work :). Sounds cheesy, but the cover just 'called out' to me every time I passed it. So glad I took the chance on this <3 It takes awhile to get to what happened, but the journey I didn't mind at all. We get clues dropped in throughout each chapter and glimpses into everyone's minds. I couldn't turn the pages fast enough :). When the secrets come out, it's a doozy. The first time, I was floored... did not expect to hear what I did and not long after, yet something else came up and then something after that. I won't spoil it for you, but your heart will go out to everyone when it comes. One secret that was sort of in the background but still present I remember guessing at, but being wrong yet again... Looking back when you think on everything,you can see in certain parts the little things you picked up on and/or may have mistaken for something else, or perhaps disregarded at the moment. Raymond Blythe is at the center and the side of alot of things and his actions echo down long after. There's three endings of a sort really.. two have connections to the past although in different ways. The other, is haunting and lays certain things out that had my mouth dropping open the first time and my heart pounding. One of the most beautiful gorgeous novels I have had the pleasure to read, and will read many times more... highly recommend, happy reading! \u201cIt was the sibling thing, I suppose. I was fascinated by the intricate tangle of love and duty and resentment that tied them together. The glances they exchanged; the complicated balance of power established over decades; the games I would never play with rules I would never fully understand. And perhaps that was key: they were such a natural group that they made me feel remarkably singular by comparison. To watch them together was to know strongly, painfully, all that I'd been missing.\u201d . \u201cFor it is said, you know, that a letter will always seek a reader; that sooner or later, like it or not, words have a way of finding the light, of making their secrets known.\u201d . Pre review: That's it... going back to an old favorite! ...more My friend passed this across the table and promised a trio of spinsters, a creaky castle and long hidden family secrets. I probably should not have taken the book, seeing as it\u2019s roughly a million pages long and I read at a slugs pace, but I was sold anyway because I\u2019m nosey and books with dark secrets cannot be turned away. This book kept luring me in with a whole lot of this. But then it delivered nothing but a whole lot of empty promises until about page 4 million and 80. Then the twists and t My friend passed this across the table and promised a trio of spinsters, a creaky castle and long hidden family secrets. I probably should not have taken the book, seeing as it\u2019s roughly a million pages long and I read at a slugs pace, but I was sold anyway because I\u2019m nosey and books with dark secrets cannot be turned away. This book kept luring me in with a whole lot of this. But then it delivered nothing but a whole lot of empty promises until about page 4 million and 80. Then the twists and turns come fast and furiously but for me it was a little too little and all far too late. From here on out, I will never ignore my instincts to DNF. So on to the good. For those with more patience for slow moving books than I, this story is very atmospheric and I have to admit that there was something about it that kept me reading. It starts off with a letter that leads a woman to delve into the past of her mom and her relationship to three sisters who live in a castle. She\u2019s nosey like me. I liked her. There\u2019s a smidge of romance and the promise of dastardly deeds and perhaps a murder. There were many points where I zombie read and had to flip back a few pages but it always managed to re-hook me. The characters are also a quirky bunch and I liked that. So, I\u2019d say this is a good choice for a gloomy rainy day (week, month?) if you like mysterious books where the castle is more of a character than many of the living, breathing characters within. But you must have endless patience and I clearly do not. ...more I am a sucker for ancient, decaying castles with occupants who are eccentric and obviously have secrets to hide. When Morton sets the stage and begins to play out the lives of the Blythe sisters, children of a famous and ultimately bizarre writer, during the time of WWII, she has me hooked. At the same time, she introduces the modern-day story of Edie Burchill, the daughter of a WWII child evacuee who was sent to the castle to wait out the war. It is her mother's story that Edie is determined to I am a sucker for ancient, decaying castles with occupants who are eccentric and obviously have secrets to hide. When Morton sets the stage and begins to play out the lives of the Blythe sisters, children of a famous and ultimately bizarre writer, during the time of WWII, she has me hooked. At the same time, she introduces the modern-day story of Edie Burchill, the daughter of a WWII child evacuee who was sent to the castle to wait out the war. It is her mother's story that Edie is determined to unearth, but in the process she finds herself enmeshed in the story of the Blythe sisters as well. This contrivance of running parallel stories in different time lines is fairly common and seldom well done. Morton does it well. She makes us equally interested in both stories and anxious to see how they converge one upon the other. I would never argue that Morton's books are great literature. They are pure enjoyment. Now and then, that is what we need and what we seek. I never feel disappointed by having spent my time with her characters and she keeps me straining to figure out what the truth of the mystery will be (which I never do). ...more Update // I'm pretty sure I need to reread this book for a fair review as I was sick and cranky while reading it and I think it affected my judgment. One day I will reassess // This pains me to say - I did not love this book. While I adore Kate Morton and her novels read like one epic poem, this one was just much too slow for me. The writing is brilliant, she can create an atmosphere with prose like no one else, and while even the plot was very intriguing, I felt as if that couldn't even save me Update // I'm pretty sure I need to reread this book for a fair review as I was sick and cranky while reading it and I think it affected my judgment. One day I will reassess // This pains me to say - I did not love this book. While I adore Kate Morton and her novels read like one epic poem, this one was just much too slow for me. The writing is brilliant, she can create an atmosphere with prose like no one else, and while even the plot was very intriguing, I felt as if that couldn't even save me from the pace. 3.5 sad stars, rounded up because it's beautiful no matter how slow. ...more Any book over 500 pages makes me narrow my eyes suspiciously. There is so much room for extraneous things in a book that size. I was pleasantly surprised to find nothing extraneous whatsoever in The Distant Hours. It\u2019s so long because Morton doesn\u2019t just focus on a few main mysteries. Instead, she weaves in all manner of smaller unknowns that click into place one by one, usually just when the reader has nearly forgotten about them completely. The result is an extremely complex and masterfully wo Any book over 500 pages makes me narrow my eyes suspiciously. There is so much room for extraneous things in a book that size. I was pleasantly surprised to find nothing extraneous whatsoever in The Distant Hours. It\u2019s so long because Morton doesn\u2019t just focus on a few main mysteries. Instead, she weaves in all manner of smaller unknowns that click into place one by one, usually just when the reader has nearly forgotten about them completely. The result is an extremely complex and masterfully woven plot that doesn\u2019t sort itself out until the very last pages. The novel is broken into five parts. Each part is broken into chapters of two types: there are Edie\u2019s chapters, which bear names instead of numbers, and there are flashback chapters, numbered and dated. I thought at first that the flashback chapters were Edie\u2019s reconstruction of the story, but I soon realized that wasn\u2019t the case. The flashbacks tell what really happened, clarifying some mysteries even Edie never solves. These historical chapters could be a separate novel in and of themselves. Morton does an amazing job drawing all of her characters. Even the minor ones, from the Blythes\u2019 housekeeper to the town gossip to Edie\u2019s boss, are vivid and real. Yet the full cast of characters doesn\u2019t detract from the story. I was never confused about who was who, and by the novel\u2019s end I had a good sense of where each character fit into the story. I thoroughly enjoyed reading The Distant Hours. While no book is without its flaws, there is no one thing about The Distant Hours that stuck out to me as being off. I would not hesitate to recommend The Distant Hours to anyone interested, and I hope to check out Morton\u2019s backlist for myself in the near future. ...more I was very disappointed with this. I enjoyed her two previous books, without thinking they were masterpieces -- just long, lazy holiday reads. But this one began to seem awfully long, with too little substance and far too much padding. From the start, I felt the present-day first person narrative and the parts told in the third person and set in 1941 didn't sit well together. I did enjoy the 1941 parts at first; Middleton is still superb at evoking an atmosphere in the past with lots of period d I was very disappointed with this. I enjoyed her two previous books, without thinking they were masterpieces -- just long, lazy holiday reads. But this one began to seem awfully long, with too little substance and far too much padding. From the start, I felt the present-day first person narrative and the parts told in the third person and set in 1941 didn't sit well together. I did enjoy the 1941 parts at first; Middleton is still superb at evoking an atmosphere in the past with lots of period detail (certainly a million times better than Mary Ann Shaffer ). But even these parts started to seem too slight, long-winded, and repetitive. In the 1992 part, I even warmed to the shy, bookish Edie at first, but she was such a dull, self-effacing character that it was simply not believable that people who hardly knew her would suddenly start confiding their fifty-year old secrets to her. As with her other books, you could guess roughly how things would turn out halfway through (even if she reserved a few twists). But oh, she took a long time getting there, and then galloped through a bunch of implausible coincidences to reach the denouement in thirty pages or so. She was trying much too hard with the gothic touches. And the epilogue was downright cheesy. A good editor with a big red pen would have helped a lot, but I still don't think it would have matched up to her other books, which had enough subtlety to retain interest. ...more What a disappointment!!!! I loved 'The Forgotten Garden'. It's one of my favorite books to recommend so naturally I was excited to read another work by Kate Morton. I found the entire story to long, to drawn out and lacking any real emotion. It was an effort to finish. With the exception of one or two chapters about the relationship between Thomas Cavill and Juniper Blythe it felt like a narration you would find in the newspaper. I had the ending figured out three hundred pages into the book and What a disappointment!!!! I loved 'The Forgotten Garden'. It's one of my favorite books to recommend so naturally I was excited to read another work by Kate Morton. I found the entire story to long, to drawn out and lacking any real emotion. It was an effort to finish. With the exception of one or two chapters about the relationship between Thomas Cavill and Juniper Blythe it felt like a narration you would find in the newspaper. I had the ending figured out three hundred pages into the book and read the remaining 260 pages just to see if I was correct. The book was plot driven - not character driven. I much prefer the latter. And whoever compared the story to 'Shadow in the Wind' must not have read one or the other book. There is no comparison. It's like comparing Shakespeare to Harlequin Romance. One is full of characters with strong compelling personalities - the other is full of paper dolls. One is full of suspense with unexpected turns - the other like a drive to the local market. Not a book I would recommend to anyone. ...more This was my first read by Kate Morton...and wow...absolutely stunning. I was completely lost in this novel and spent a good solid two days doing nothing but reading. I was constantly guessing at the many secrets and proved pleasantly right sometimes and shocked at others. The mixture of past and present, unfolding of long kept secrets, and deep insights from many points of view made this book perfection to me. This was the first Kate Morton book I had ever read and I heard rave reviews over the Forgotten Garden. It started off great; I found her prose fresh and her descriptions unique. Kate Morton is clearly a talented author but I think she failed with this book. She could have really benefited from tight editing. I didn't understand her structure in the least. Switching from a first person narrative to a third person narrative, using different view points was distracting. That was the first snag I h This was the first Kate Morton book I had ever read and I heard rave reviews over the Forgotten Garden. It started off great; I found her prose fresh and her descriptions unique. Kate Morton is clearly a talented author but I think she failed with this book. She could have really benefited from tight editing. I didn't understand her structure in the least. Switching from a first person narrative to a third person narrative, using different view points was distracting. That was the first snag I hit as a reader. If she had made it all third person and still maintained the different view points, I would have been fine with that. I don't think the first person narrative added any additional insights either. That story line seemed like an add-on, almost like the original story was too short or needed some zip. It was the weakest part of the book. At about the 200-250 mark, I too felt like calling it a day. I found the scenes became repititious and I didn't care about any of the characters. Some of the mysteries/secrets that were revealed were a let down (i.e the contents of the lost letter). By the last third of the book, it picked up and I couldn't put it down. If she had sliced out whole chunks in the middle and ensured that she showed a scene once and well, the book would be excellent. I still want to read the Forgotten Garden and the House at Riverton but I don't recommend this one. ...more Kate Morton is a gifted storyteller. She has a gift for weaving multiple storylines together; add in mystery and some great character arcs and you have the premise for this novel. Edie Burchill stumbles across Milderhurst castle and remembers that she has been there before... The story shifts back to the past and into present day. Edie's mother was evacuated to Milderhurst around WWII and has kept this a secret from her daughter. Milderhurst is the home of world renowned author Raymond Blythe, a Kate Morton is a gifted storyteller. She has a gift for weaving multiple storylines together; add in mystery and some great character arcs and you have the premise for this novel. Edie Burchill stumbles across Milderhurst castle and remembers that she has been there before... The story shifts back to the past and into present day. Edie's mother was evacuated to Milderhurst around WWII and has kept this a secret from her daughter. Milderhurst is the home of world renowned author Raymond Blythe, and his 3 quirky daughters. Twins Percy and Saffy, disciplinarian and nurturer, add in Juniper Blythe, who is eccentric and suffering from her past lover who failed to show up on the night they were announcing their engagement. Even with the numerous storylines all weaving together, the clear mystery keeps the reader wanting more, and easily turning the pages to race to find out what happened... ...more How can you not love a book that includes the following: \"After all, it's the librarian's sworn purpose to bring books together with their one true reader.\"? While the blurb calls this \"gothic literature\", it's more goth lit lite - the scary isn't there to the degree that I'd expect from that genre. Think more Rebecca than \"Fall of the House of Usher.\" The switching between 1941 and 1992 helps, I think, keep the tone light. Of course there are some Dark Family Secrets that get revealed, and a Li How can you not love a book that includes the following: \"After all, it's the librarian's sworn purpose to bring books together with their one true reader.\"? While the blurb calls this \"gothic literature\", it's more goth lit lite - the scary isn't there to the degree that I'd expect from that genre. Think more Rebecca than \"Fall of the House of Usher.\" The switching between 1941 and 1992 helps, I think, keep the tone light. Of course there are some Dark Family Secrets that get revealed, and a Literary Mystery gets resolved. Edith's trip to Milderhurt and the Castle is, at first, accidental but it's clearly fate, thanks to her mother's year-ish there during the Blitz. The Sisters Blythe (honestly, the characters are really well named here!) aren't quite as Miss Havisham as they originally are made out to be, but the Castle certainly is trapped in time. That Edith is ultimately able to unravel the past, not to mention bury it (in a manner of speaking) is not what you'd expect from the start because there are all sorts of Portents and Clues that lead the reader to think that Something with Happen to Edith. This isn't quite what my friend Wendy would call a \"comfort read\" because of the gothic overtones, but it's definitely on that continuum (and there is> an Aga!). ARC provided by publisher. ...more Estou extasiada!Eu n\u00e3o sei porque a Kate Morton n\u00e3o escreveu mais cedo, ou nem tem muitos livros publicados (tem tr\u00eas) porque a escrita desta senhora \u00e9 fenomenal. E n\u00e3o \u00e9 s\u00f3 a escrita, \u00e9 o enredo, a forma de contar uma hist\u00f3ria mas nunca contando tudo de uma vez, a capacidade que tem de nos prender at\u00e9 \u00e0 \u00faltima p\u00e1gina. Tal como no O Segredo da Casa de Riverton , tamb\u00e9m neste livro temos uma fam\u00edlia (curiosamente, tamb\u00e9m com irm\u00e3s) cheia de segredos ocultos, macabros, que perduram no tempo at\u00e9 um Estou extasiada!Eu n\u00e3o sei porque a Kate Morton n\u00e3o escreveu mais cedo, ou nem tem muitos livros publicados (tem tr\u00eas) porque a escrita desta senhora \u00e9 fenomenal. E n\u00e3o \u00e9 s\u00f3 a escrita, \u00e9 o enredo, a forma de contar uma hist\u00f3ria mas nunca contando tudo de uma vez, a capacidade que tem de nos prender at\u00e9 \u00e0 \u00faltima p\u00e1gina. Tal como no O Segredo da Casa de Riverton , tamb\u00e9m neste livro temos uma fam\u00edlia (curiosamente, tamb\u00e9m com irm\u00e3s) cheia de segredos ocultos, macabros, que perduram no tempo at\u00e9 um dia em que algu\u00e9m decida desvend\u00e1-los. Uma coisa que achei engra\u00e7ado neste livro \u00e9 que a verdade mesmo, os factos que aconteceram \u00e9-nos contado a n\u00f3s, leitores, mas \u00e0 narradora n\u00e3o! Pelo menos da maneira como o livro est\u00e1 organizado, foi o que me pareceu. N\u00f3s ficamos a saber, mas a personagem nunca vai ter conhecimento. N\u00e3o \u00e9 o m\u00e1ximo? O segredo continua secreto para a hist\u00f3ria. Uma das melhores escritoras da actualidade! Obrigado \u00e0 Tink pelo empr\u00e9stimo. Livro pertencente ao BlogRing My Imaginarium! ...more Nereden ba\u015flamal\u0131y\u0131m bilmiyorum, hatta bu kitab\u0131n sonu ve ba\u015flang\u0131c\u0131 olup olmad\u0131\u011f\u0131ndan bile emin de\u011filim. Kitap \u00c7amur Adam\u0131n Hikayesi'nin giri\u015f b\u00f6l\u00fcm\u00fcyle ba\u015fl\u0131yor. \u00c7amur Adam k\u00fc\u00e7\u00fck bir k\u0131z\u0131n kabusu ve umudunu yitirmi\u015f bir adam\u0131n yeni ser\u00fcveni. Blytheler Milderhurst Kalesi'nde ya\u015fayan 3 k\u0131z karde\u015f. Hikayeleri \u00e7ok eskilere dayan\u0131yor. Juniper; u\u00e7ar\u0131 bir gen\u00e7 k\u0131z.Kan\u0131nda delilik var.Ne zaman ne yapaca\u011f\u0131n\u0131 kestiremiyor kimse. \u015eiirler yaz\u0131yor yemek sofras\u0131nda havuzda \u00e7\u0131plak y\u00fcz\u00fcyor. Percy; karde\u015flerin Nereden ba\u015flamal\u0131y\u0131m bilmiyorum, hatta bu kitab\u0131n sonu ve ba\u015flang\u0131c\u0131 olup olmad\u0131\u011f\u0131ndan bile emin de\u011filim. Kitap \u00c7amur Adam\u0131n Hikayesi'nin giri\u015f b\u00f6l\u00fcm\u00fcyle ba\u015fl\u0131yor. \u00c7amur Adam k\u00fc\u00e7\u00fck bir k\u0131z\u0131n kabusu ve umudunu yitirmi\u015f bir adam\u0131n yeni ser\u00fcveni. Blytheler Milderhurst Kalesi'nde ya\u015fayan 3 k\u0131z karde\u015f. Hikayeleri \u00e7ok eskilere dayan\u0131yor. Juniper; u\u00e7ar\u0131 bir gen\u00e7 k\u0131z.Kan\u0131nda delilik var.Ne zaman ne yapaca\u011f\u0131n\u0131 kestiremiyor kimse. \u015eiirler yaz\u0131yor yemek sofras\u0131nda havuzda \u00e7\u0131plak y\u00fcz\u00fcyor. Percy; karde\u015flerin en so\u011fu\u011fu ve en kat\u0131s\u0131. Ama bir o kadar da a\u015fka en \u00f6zlem duyan\u0131. Percy'nin ger\u00e7ek a\u015fk\u0131n\u0131n Milderhurst oldu\u011funu sanm\u0131\u015ft\u0131m, son anda ortaya \u00e7\u0131kan ger\u00e7ek duda\u011f\u0131m\u0131 u\u00e7uklatt\u0131. Saffy; cana yak\u0131n ana\u00e7 karde\u015f. Ailesi i\u00e7in y\u0131llarca fedakarl\u0131k yapm\u0131\u015f. Belki de en \u00f6zverili olan. Kitap \u00e7ok yo\u011fun bir anlat\u0131ma sahip. Yazar s\u0131rlar\u0131 kitab\u0131n son k\u0131s\u0131mlar\u0131nda a\u00e7\u0131klasa da ilk sayfadan itibaren hissediyorsunuz ger\u00e7e\u011fi. \u00d6zendirmeden ama h\u0131zl\u0131ca al\u0131yorsunuz o hissi. Edie i\u015fte tam bunlar\u0131n ortas\u0131nda ortaya \u00e7\u0131kan bir gazeteci. \u00c7amur Adam onun en sevdi\u011fi hikaye ve Edie nedenini \u00f6\u011frenmek istiyor. Milderhurst'un kap\u0131s\u0131n\u0131 \u00e7ald\u0131\u011f\u0131nda tek istedi\u011fi biraz ipucu. Ama t\u00fcm ger\u00e7ek \u00e7arp\u0131yor surat\u0131na. Korkuyor Edie, geri \u00e7ekilmiyor. Yazar\u0131n okudu\u011fum ikinci kitab\u0131. Ve k\u00fct\u00fcr k\u00fct\u00fcr giren 30 liradan sonra iyi ki alm\u0131\u015f\u0131m diyorum. ...more This is a lovely story that reads like a lyrical poem. It reminds me so much of \"Rebecca\" by Daphne DuMaurier. The physical reaction that a house like Manderly or a castle like Milderhurst evokes is so similar that the connection is quite apparent. The misunderstanding of people's relationships is apparent and the story drives itself from there. As layer after layer is peeled back, the reader becomes so engrossed until the surprising ending when everything is revealed. A truly wonderous novel th This is a lovely story that reads like a lyrical poem. It reminds me so much of \"Rebecca\" by Daphne DuMaurier. The physical reaction that a house like Manderly or a castle like Milderhurst evokes is so similar that the connection is quite apparent. The misunderstanding of people's relationships is apparent and the story drives itself from there. As layer after layer is peeled back, the reader becomes so engrossed until the surprising ending when everything is revealed. A truly wonderous novel that is perfect for a winter read, preferably while it's raining. ...more If not for the slow start I would have given this 5 stars. I settled down with relish to read Distant Hours, having loved The House at Riverton; I am now at page 250 and about to lose the will to live. I thought I'd look at the reviews to see if I was in the minority (which clearly I am) but I see now that I am not going to miss much by giving up on this punishing endeavour now. This book is far too big. Physically it is a nuisance to read in bed and elsewhere; as literature it is surely guilty of words for words' sake. Morton has an excellent knack of I settled down with relish to read Distant Hours, having loved The House at Riverton; I am now at page 250 and about to lose the will to live. I thought I'd look at the reviews to see if I was in the minority (which clearly I am) but I see now that I am not going to miss much by giving up on this punishing endeavour now. This book is far too big. Physically it is a nuisance to read in bed and elsewhere; as literature it is surely guilty of words for words' sake. Morton has an excellent knack of imaginatively using the verb and adjective. However, one can have too much of a good thing and I became weary of her compulsion to use an alternative word if she can manage it. I did not see how using 'donate' instead of 'give' added anything to her story; this determination to blind us with her artistry detracts from the tale which, like others, I reckon I've guessed the end of anyway. Relax a bit, I'd say and let your characters breathe instead of choking them on verbiage . Living in Oz Morton does amazingly well at conjuring up an England that existed before her time; however I was bemused by the fact that Edie goes into the privately-owned bookshop of a small town and walks out with two niche-market books for a tenner ! The heroine also peers into a disused building with a smashed window and observes 'dust'. Any building with a broken window I know of in this country would have mildew and ivy 'sprouting' in it. Or, as Morton might say, 'smoothing its tendrils along the crumbles of masonry'. I reckon Morton's editors have become too close to her. If this had been her first book I think the red pen would have come out more frequently. Thanks to the other (few) reviewers who echoed my opinion exactly and have helped me justify abandoning this book before the end. I will now pick up Dickens and read some proper literature. ...more \"Ne mogu zamisliti svr\u0161etak dana bez pri\u010de kroz koju bih propala na svom putu prema snu.\" Ovaj prekrasan citat je trebao biti zabilje\u017een. Ostalo? Pa, ne ba\u0161. Ovo je jo\u0161 jedna knjiga za koju trebam me\u0111u-ocjenu, realno bi to ovog puta bilo 2.5. Ina\u010de jako volim romane koji su \"pri\u010de u pri\u010di\" - otkrivanje jedne davne pro\u0161losti u sada\u0161njim trenucima. Me\u0111utim, ovi trenuci mene su stra\u0161no umorili. Nisam se nikako mogla poistovjetiti s likovima, s tom posesivnom sestrinskom ljubavlju, sebi\u010dno\u0161\u0107u, strahom \"Ne mogu zamisliti svr\u0161etak dana bez pri\u010de kroz koju bih propala na svom putu prema snu.\" Ovaj prekrasan citat je trebao biti zabilje\u017een. Ostalo? Pa, ne ba\u0161. Ovo je jo\u0161 jedna knjiga za koju trebam me\u0111u-ocjenu, realno bi to ovog puta bilo 2.5. Ina\u010de jako volim romane koji su \"pri\u010de u pri\u010di\" - otkrivanje jedne davne pro\u0161losti u sada\u0161njim trenucima. Me\u0111utim, ovi trenuci mene su stra\u0161no umorili. Nisam se nikako mogla poistovjetiti s likovima, s tom posesivnom sestrinskom ljubavlju, sebi\u010dno\u0161\u0107u, strahom od samo\u0107e... Sa svakim nastavkom \u010ditanja, imala sam osje\u0107aj da ulazim u ledenu grobnicu iz koje mi ne daju van pa su moje misli stalno bje\u017eale. Onda sam (neminovno) po\u010dela primje\u0107ivati tiskarske pogre\u0161ke, kojih je na\u017ealost jako puno, tako da neke re\u010denice jednostavno nemaju smisla ni nakon ponovnog i\u0161\u010ditavanja. Nadam se da su ostale autori\u010dine knjige bolje, ali zasad to ne bih provjeravala. Mo\u017eda jednom, u nekim drugim trenucima. ...more After Morton's fantastic The House at Riverton and The Forgotten Garden, I had incredibly high expectations of The Distant Hours. When it finally arrived pre-ordered from Amazon, almost 700 pages long and complete with one of those ribbon bookmark things sewn into the binding, I dove in. While Morton's latest has a lot of the elements that made her previous work shine -- literary and family mysteries, an old house full of secrets, tragic love affairs, lost letters, an engaging protagonist -- the After Morton's fantastic The House at Riverton and The Forgotten Garden, I had incredibly high expectations of The Distant Hours. When it finally arrived pre-ordered from Amazon, almost 700 pages long and complete with one of those ribbon bookmark things sewn into the binding, I dove in. While Morton's latest has a lot of the elements that made her previous work shine -- literary and family mysteries, an old house full of secrets, tragic love affairs, lost letters, an engaging protagonist -- the ingredients don't come together quite right. It's as though Morton is trying too hard. The narrator keeps telling us how she feels drawn to the castle and can hear the echoes of history in the walls -- too melodramatic, the switches between the 1990s and two periods during WWII are too quick, and some of the plot devices are too predictable, while others are too fantastical. It's just all a bit forced. On its own this is a fun and enjoyable read, but we've come to expect more from Morton. ...more Why is it that books that you love the most are the hardest to describe? I sat in front of my laptop for more than a hour , after I had finished reading the book and yet was unable to formulate a word other than \"WOW!\". Kate Morton is one of my top 5 favorite authors. I loved her other 2 books and I devoured the 600 plus pages of this book in less than one day.I was incapable of sleeping - the story and the characters pulled me in so deep that sleep was really the last thought I had. I had been aw Why is it that books that you love the most are the hardest to describe? I sat in front of my laptop for more than a hour , after I had finished reading the book and yet was unable to formulate a word other than \"WOW!\". Kate Morton is one of my top 5 favorite authors. I loved her other 2 books and I devoured the 600 plus pages of this book in less than one day.I was incapable of sleeping - the story and the characters pulled me in so deep that sleep was really the last thought I had. I had been awaiting this book more than any other book this year. The wait has been more than worth it. There is such a haunting quality to this book which makes it one that you cannot forget easily.There were sentences and whole paragraphs that still resonate in my ears.Kate Morton's beautiful writing is one of the major reasons why I am such a big fan of hers.Her lyrical prose will stay with you. I can actually quote lines from this book (something I thought I was not capable of)- such was the writing. The setting , a gothic castle, is a character in itself. Such is the author's writing that the castle seems as alive as its occupants.In its veins, runs the secrets from long ago.Kate Morton's breathtaking description of the castle will make you feel as if you are there.Her descriptions are so evocative, so beautiful that it leaves you wanting for more. Entwined with the suspense element is a heart-wrenching story of three sisters that won't fail to move you.The sisters and their story will break your heart. I felt their pain, their fears . Imagine being a prisoner in your own home with no dreams or hope for a future. I could feel the castle walls binding them, suffocating them. Throughout the book, I tried to prepare myself for the final shocking conclusion -as the secrets are revealed.Yet I was completely taken aback by the ending which was a disquieting one. The story's movement between the past and the present is smooth and beautifully done.As each chapter unfolds, we get to know more about the past. Slowly, we are able to piece together the parts to form a complete picture. As secret after secret unravels, years of secrets,betrayal, heartbreaks, tragedies, will shock you. This dark and haunting story will unnerve you and yet won't fail to touch you. There are certain chilling moments, I shuddered at some points. Its not something very in your face..its something lying just beneath the surface..something not visible.. that creeps you out. Even after an astounding ending ,I still felt as if there were still things left to the reader to decipher and interpret - the castle had still not revealed all its secrets. The castle, the sisters, their tragic story - they will linger with you , long after you have read the last page. The Distant Hours is a perfect read for a rainy night. It has all the makings of a prefect gothic novel- family secrets, an old castle, mysterious deaths, a letter from long ago and madness running through a family . Even though this is a huge book , I wanted more pages to miraculously appear. Its one of those books which made me want to read on and on. I think I am a Kate Morton fanatic for life now. This masterpiece of a book has made me very sure that no matter how much I have to wait for her next book, it will be definitely worth it.Its beacause of books like these that I love reading. Favorite Quote: There were so many , but if I have to choose one, it would be- \"The ancient walls sing the distant hours..\" Somehow this one sentence affected me a lot. It made me think of the past memories. It was so suited for this story. Every old house has its memories-painful and happy.Maybe when you are quiet, you can hear the voices of the people from the past-people who have lived and loved and died. This quote also made me think of something menacing lurking beneath the memories - I guess this was what the author wanted.When the author described the castle, I almost felt all the grief, the happiness, hidden in the castle walls and yet found it so hard to completely penetrate the secrets of the hours gone by. Overall: Haunting, engrossing and shocking! I wish there was a stronger word to describe how much I love this book. After almost a year, this is a new addition to my list of favorite books. Recommended? YES ! A thousand times yes! No matter what genre you read, do give Kate Morton's books a try. Though there are many talented young authors today, Kate Morton is still my favorite. Similar Books: The House at Riverton-Kate Morton The Forgotten Garden-Kate Morton Arcadia Falls - Carol Goodman ...more", "Title": "The Distant Hours"},
