{"Comments": "A bookclub read which I really enjoyed. Set against the backdrop of World War One, the story follows brothers Charlie and Tommo as they grow up and enlist in Britain's army to fight in the war. Each chapter begins sometime during a long night as Tommo recalls all the adventures and trials he and his family endured together. This book is aimed at 10-14 year olds however adults seem to really enjoy it and it is a great discussion book. The sadest book I have ever read. I would reccommend this to you all who like to cry over a book, but I warn you to have a tissue when your near the end, because you'll cry your heart out. This book is passionate and brings you deep, letting you know how the characthers feeling and wishing it could change to a happy ending, but it also tells you what war and true love and brotherly friendship is about. It tells you how Charlie and Tommo Peaceful come to at the end, and I wish I have never read this The sadest book I have ever read. I would reccommend this to you all who like to cry over a book, but I warn you to have a tissue when your near the end, because you'll cry your heart out. This book is passionate and brings you deep, letting you know how the characthers feeling and wishing it could change to a happy ending, but it also tells you what war and true love and brotherly friendship is about. It tells you how Charlie and Tommo Peaceful come to at the end, and I wish I have never read this book because my heart aches over it, but I am also glad. ...more Words can't even describe how much this book means to me. I would recommend it to anyone, especially to other history 'nerds' like me. As it is the type of book that lives on even after you turn the last page. No matter how many times I've read it, it never seems to lose my interest. It is a very popular book used in schools, but I think people of all ages can relate and feel connected in some way to this story and the characters within it, not just children. After reading I can't help but think Words can't even describe how much this book means to me. I would recommend it to anyone, especially to other history 'nerds' like me. As it is the type of book that lives on even after you turn the last page. No matter how many times I've read it, it never seems to lose my interest. It is a very popular book used in schools, but I think people of all ages can relate and feel connected in some way to this story and the characters within it, not just children. After reading I can't help but think about the characters and I feel sympathy for them, particularly Tommo. I imagine him still fighting for survival at the front, still grieving. Did he survive? I would like to 'yes' for his family's sake, so that he can live out a final dying wish. However with a war like that he has a lot to live up to. A very interesting issue is raised by the Author, and that is the unfairness of war. This was shown particularly in Charlie's unjustified death. As reading it I couldn't help but feel helpless, just like Tommo. It just goes to show, there are no good guys or bad guys in war, just some very innocent people. ...more Adapted from the book jacket : Private Thomas Peaceful has lied about his age and left his family behind to follow his older brother, Charlie, to France to fight in the First World War. Now,<---M> Tommo has one almost unendurable night</---M>, alone, fighting sleep, to reflect on his life. As the minutes slowly tick by, his memories are full of his childhood in the English countryside. His father, mother, brothers, and first love, <---C>Molly</---C>, come vividly alive in his mind. But every moment Tommo spends thinking a Adapted from the book jacket : Private Thomas Peaceful has lied about his age and left his family behind to follow his older brother, Charlie, to France to fight in the First World War. Now, Tommo has one almost unendurable night, alone, fighting sleep, to reflect on his life. As the minutes slowly tick by, his memories are full of his childhood in the English countryside. His father, mother, brothers, and first love, Molly, come vividly alive in his mind. But every moment Tommo spends thinking about his life means another moment closer to something he cannot bear to think about \u2013 a time when the war and its horrific consequences will change his life forever. My Reactions This is a gut-wrenching tale of brotherhood, loyalty, duty, love, courage and forgiveness. I loved the close bond between the brothers, both Tommo and Charlie, but also their brain-damaged brother Big Joe. I applauded their mother\u2019s moral courage in the face of adversity. I felt uncomfortable with the actions of the Colonel, but recognized the British class system at work in the early 20th century. (<---B>Thank you, Downton Abbey .</---B>) This is not the first book about World War I that I have read, so I was familiar with the horrors of trench warfare and the brutal realities of a long siege, but I still cringed with fear and anxiety as I read about these young men (hardly older than boys) and what they faced. My heart about broke for Tommo and Charlie; I certainly didn\u2019t see that end coming. I was very glad that Morpurgo added a Postscript and Author\u2019s Note explaining some of the realities of this period in history and how the governments of Britain, New Zealand, Australia and the United States had such different responses to the soldiers who suffered psychological trauma on the battlefields. This is the third novel I\u2019ve read by Morpurgo, after War Horse (also set in WWI), and An Elephant in the Garden (Dresden, during WW2). My reaction to the former was lukewarm, but I loved the latter. <+++>Private Peaceful</+++> is closer to \u201celephant\u201d than \u201chorse.\u201d ...more \u2022 review also posted on Wordpress! \u2022 rating: 1.5 stars *warning: review contains spoilers!* Don't let my new rating system fool you: this is not an awful book. However, at times, I really disliked reading it. That's why I could only rate this one star. I had to read this for college, but didn't have time to post a review yet. I had to evaluate whether this could be used in the classroom and create an activity based on the book. Please note I am going to review my own enjoyment (or lack thereof), n \u2022 review also posted on Wordpress! \u2022 rating: 1.5 stars *warning: review contains spoilers!* Don't let my new rating system fool you: this is not an awful book. However, at times, I really disliked reading it. That's why I could only rate this one star. I had to read this for college, but didn't have time to post a review yet. I had to evaluate whether this could be used in the classroom and create an activity based on the book. Please note I am going to review my own enjoyment (or lack thereof), not its usefulness during an English lesson. The main character's voice seemed targeted towards young children. Therefore, I could not connect to him, the other characters and the story. At the beginning, Thomas is still a boy. I'd say he's twelve years old, tops.<---F> And you can definitely tell</---F>. When Thomas gets older, I didn't even notice it. His voice remained childish. Thomas claims he loves Charlie and Molly, but actually complains about them most of the time. He puts them on a pedestal, but is constantly jealous of them. The author felt the need to confirm how straight Thomas actually is. By no means am I saying that children cannot realise their sexuality at a young age. Neither do I claim that kids don't get crushes. However, there was only one female character (besides his mother) and of course, Thomas 'loves' her. His attitude towards her really bothered me. When he thinks he is going to die, he wants Molly to be his last thought. This girl is married to his brother and pregnant with his child! Do I even need to explain how disturbing this is? Thomas never gets over his childhood crush and it is creepy. Furthermore, he never once explains why he 'loves' Molly. We know nothing about her personality. One might think the only reason he likes her, is because she is a girl. Either the characters are portrayed as saints or they were evil villains. That is not realistic. Every person does both good and bad things. I am not even talking about the war here. I know people where capable of doing terrible things then. But let's talk about Colonel for example. The reason why he hates the Peaceful's is the most ridiculous thing I have ever heard. He wants to evict them because a boy with special needs blows raspberries at him?! He actually murders his dog?! Someone call Days of Our Lives and The Bold and the Beautiful, they are missing one of their writers! It was so dramatic, I couldn't take it seriously. I even came across a plot hole: Molly was not allowed to see any of the Peaceful's anymore. Yet she meets Thomas in secret in the woods, to give him letters he has to hand over to Charlie. Why don't Charlie and Molly just meet instead? She isn't allowed to see Thomas either, so this doesn't make any sense. If I don't like a character, I won't enjoy the story. So, when Charlie died, I did not feel bad for him. I don't want to blame the victim, but he really could have avoided things getting too far. But no, he chose to be arrogant and insult his sergeant instead. I do think the postcript's message was beautiful. Unfortunately, this book focussed much more on Thomas' childhood instead. conclusion : I was excited to start this, because a lot of people ended up feeling heartbroken after finishing it. Sadly, I did not feel the same, as I did not care about any of the characters and the plot. ...more Im 13, and we read this book in my english class. Before I read this I never understood WW1 and WW2 but it opened my eyes to the suffering and sadness of it all. I think the author was brilliant to not go straight to the trenches, but go through Tommo's whole life first. I became to love Tommo alot as he grew up, and Charlie too. When they go to war it is just so miserable and sad and I now think all soldiers in the war, and ww2 were complete heroes and dont get enough credit for what they did f Im 13, and we read this book in my english class. Before I read this I never understood WW1 and WW2 but it opened my eyes to the suffering and sadness of it all. I think the author was brilliant to not go straight to the trenches, but go through Tommo's whole life first. I became to love Tommo alot as he grew up, and Charlie too. When they go to war it is just so miserable and sad and I now think all soldiers in the war, and ww2 were complete heroes and dont get enough credit for what they did for us! If you know a soldier, knew one, or were one, thankyou so much! <+++>Private Peaceful</+++> opened my eyes. Infact I couldnt stop crying over war and those brave soldiers :( I find it sad how Private Peaceful was a real person! He had a life, he wasnt just a guy who died. Right before he died in world war 1 he probably remembered his first day of school, all the loves and losses he experienced. And before this book was written he would never have been remembered, like the thousands of other soldiers that are now just a grave. I will always remember them. Tommo is such a nice character, he and Charlie are both so brave. Because you follow them from such a young age it is hard to imagine them as young men fighting for their country. This inspired me to learn more about war. I went on to watch Saving Private Ryan about WW2 which is so sad and horrific. Its strange because you only hear about it in books and watch movies about it but this actually happened to good people. Some were only 16. They had their whole life ahead of them, but they were just shot down :) I dont think we should ever forget the bravery and pain. So the next time you see an old man walking really slow down the street.. Dont underestimate him, just think of what he might have went through :) ...more A British teenage boy follows his brother into the army during World War I and is sent to the trenches in France. Describes how men who broke under the stress of war were shot as deserters. Pair this with Marcus Sedgwick's The Foreshadowing for a grim picture of the realities of war. I first read \"Private Peaceful\" when I was about ten years old and I remember that it had a great impression on me. I borrowed it from the school library without particularly high expectations. I had read some of Morpurgo's work before and although I had enjoyed it I recall thinking that this book looked decidely dull. However, when I began to read the story I found it to be both historically interesting and fantastically gripping. It was the first book that really made me cry which just goes to I first read \"Private Peaceful\" when I was about ten years old and I remember that it had a great impression on me. I borrowed it from the school library without particularly high expectations. I had read some of Morpurgo's work before and although I had enjoyed it I recall thinking that this book looked decidely dull. However, when I began to read the story I found it to be both historically interesting and fantastically gripping. It was the first book that really made me cry which just goes to show how effective it was emotionally. It also sparked off a fascination with World War One which continues to this day as I prepare to take my History GCSE. For a long time after reading the book I continued to name it as my favourite ever book. Unlike many other books that have had a large effect on me I have only read \"Private Peaceful\" once because I am worried that if I reread it I will be disappointed and that my memories of this wonderful book will be tainted by an underwhelming second reading. However, I would definately recommend the book to anyone and I will always remember the enjoyment it provided for my ten year old self. ...more Private peaceful is set in the WWI era, and time of sorrow for many countries. It takes place in Iddesleigh. In the beginning you have no idea the book is about war if you didn't keep reading, or look at the title first. It talks about the characters' child hoods, and eventually how the war starts to change things as they get older. There are many great characters in the book but one that stands out most is Charlie Peaceful. He always stands up for what he thinks is right, and it really encourag Private peaceful is set in the WWI era, and time of sorrow for many countries. It takes place in Iddesleigh. In the beginning you have no idea the book is about war if you didn't keep reading, or look at the title first. It talks about the characters' child hoods, and eventually how the war starts to change things as they get older. There are many great characters in the book but one that stands out most is Charlie Peaceful. He always stands up for what he thinks is right, and it really encourages me to do the same. Even with the consequences he faces, he does what's best. It's really incredible to read. Tommo Peaceful, Charlie's younger brother really looks up to him. He goes through the most emotional stress that you know of in this story. In the beginning he blames himself for killing his father, after he rescued him from a falling tree. Then there's Molly. Molly makes the trio complete. In their childhood every day Tommo, Charlie, and Molly hang out together. It's perfect until Tommo realizes Molly and Charlie are in love, for he loves her too. You also meet their other brother Big Joe, who has a mental disability. He loves to sing Oranges and Lemons, which has a great significance at the end. When Molly gets kicked out of her house for being pregnant with Charlie's son, she comes to live with Mama, and Big Joe. Charlie must go off to war, and Tommo joins him. He wants to be with Charlie again. To be his best friend. The rest of the story is about them fighting at war. Charlie at the end stays with the hurt Tommo, disobeying orders, and get the death sentence. He asks Tommo to take care of Molly and Little Tommo, and is killed at the end singing Oranges and Lemons, and the really demonstrates his bravery. Tommo never gives up his promise, and takes care of the family. I believe one theme here is to always cherish what you have. charlie did, and was always happy. he never whined or complained about anything. Next, everything happens for a reason. Don't let guilt suck you up. Tommo had a seriously hard time with this. In the end he realizes it's not his fault, with the help of Charlie, which I'm sure raises a lot of weight off his shoulders. I think we all need to know and remember these things like Charlie and Tommo. \"He closed his eyes and as he waits he sings softly 'Oranges and Lemons, say the bells of St. Clements.'\" This is significant because that is what Charlie does as he's about to die. Showing bravery, and a remembrance of home. These couple sentences point out the big the theme in the book, and that's why they're so important. I just wonder how Charlie does it. It's crazy to think you could sing after all he lived through and is about to die for no reason. I'm very glad that Tommo find peace at the end. Charlie is the greatest brother out there I'd say. I think everyone would love this book. We could recommend it to many soldiers who know what they're going through in the story, and who need a bit of reassurance and courage that everything will be okay in the end. ...more Private Peaceful is an engaging, quick read that captures the heartbreak, love, and loss associated with World War I. The book takes place in England both before and during the war. The setting feels authentic and fits the story perfectly, letting you be fully enthralled in it's beauty . Tommo, the main character, hasn't had an easy life. His father died in front of him when he was a child, and this brought a sense of darkness that he hadn't seen before. Ever sense, Tommo was a changed person, a Private Peaceful is an engaging, quick read that captures the heartbreak, love, and loss associated with World War I. The book takes place in England both before and during the war. The setting feels authentic and fits the story perfectly, letting you be fully enthralled in it's beauty . Tommo, the main character, hasn't had an easy life. His father died in front of him when he was a child, and this brought a sense of darkness that he hadn't seen before. Ever sense, Tommo was a changed person, and even blamed himself for what happened. The beginning of the book follows Tommo as a child, coping with the loss of his father and living in a financially unstable family. He and his older brother, Charlie, shared one friend, Molly. They were the perfect trio, always playing games and enjoying each others company. The boys both loved Molly. This part of the book was very enjoyable to read, and showcases a side of Tommo where he really just wants to be happy. As they get older, Tommo starts to feel like the odd one out in the trio. Tommo's emotions were very believable and enforced my belief that all the characters in this book were incredibly dynamic as a whole. Being the third one out was a feeling Tommo had for years until it finally hit the breaking point. This was when Molly became pregnant as a teenager with Charlie's baby. Tommo felt betrayed and resentful as the couple got married, but tried to stay happy, as he loved them both deeply. Shortly after this, the war started to impact their lives severely. Charlie was forced to go to war, and Tommo volunteered. This outlines the theme of bravery and courage that laces through the pages. The rest of the book deals with the war and how it effects the boys. The atmosphere is now gloomy and heavy. A feeling of desperation hangs in the air. The climax of the book sets in, and suspense becomes a strong element. The war is intense and believable, like a nightmare. The tense changes to the present during the resolution, and Tommo is heartbroken, but still optimistic. Overall, this is a fantastic book that made me laugh and shed tears of emotion. I could appreciate the thoughtfulness the author put into his characters and this made the book that much better. Reading this was an experience I won't soon forget. ...more Set in Britain in the early 1900s a young boy named Thomas Peaceful, nicknamed Tommo, is faced with incredible hardship. Tommo lives on an estate of a bitterly mean Colonel with his brother Charlie, who often seems to be a hero in the face of figures who threaten Tommo, and their peers,Big Joe, their older brother, who suffers from a mental disability,and their mother who takes good care of all the boys in their mischievous excursions.When Tommo first started school he was faced with difficulty Set in Britain in the early 1900s a young boy named Thomas Peaceful, nicknamed Tommo, is faced with incredible hardship. Tommo lives on an estate of a bitterly mean Colonel with his brother Charlie, who often seems to be a hero in the face of figures who threaten Tommo, and their peers,Big Joe, their older brother, who suffers from a mental disability,and their mother who takes good care of all the boys in their mischievous excursions.When Tommo first started school he was faced with difficulty finding friends, soon after he finds friendship and security in a girl, older than him who is currently friends with his brother, Charlie. This girl, named Molly becomes a lifelong friend, and Tommo soon develops a love interest with her. These three friends go on adventures and do anything they can to help their mother keep the home. As time goes on, Molly becomes closer to the Peaceful's family, and Charlie and Molly develop a romantic relationship.Faced with strong jealousy and feelings of betrayal towards his brother, Tommo tries to find a way to prove himself. After several weeks, the family is offered an ultimatum. The Colonel tells the Peaceful's mother that unless Charlie joins the military, the family will be evicted. Charlie decides that he will join, and with an attempt of courage, Tommo says he will join also. Again, through boot camp, Charlie showcases his heroic side, when being wise to his sour officers. Continuing to protect Tommo, Charlie continues to share a strong bond with his younger brother. Soon later the boys are deployed to fight off the Germans in Belgium. At this point, the boys are finally exposed to the conditions of the front lines. This novel showcases the less valiant side of war. It shows the hardships and unsanitary conditions soldiers faced on the front lines, the almost constant, and incredible fear these troops had, and the bond of brotherhood in the military. In this novel, the dishonorable and unjustifiable actions within the military are displayed, and the reader will learn of the unjust scenarios that were far from rare within the army. I would absolutely recommend this novel to everyone that enjoys an eye-opening story ...more Thomas Peaceful\u2019s life has not been easy. His father died in a logging accident while saving his life. Thomas's family endures much hardship at the hands of his father's former employer and a great-aunt. Thomas also has to protect his mentally challenged oldest brother, Big Joe. Through the trials and tribulations of his young life, Thomas has his older brother and best friend Charlie by his side.The First World War is at hand when they age up and become madely in love with a girl named Molly.Th Thomas Peaceful\u2019s life has not been easy. His father died in a logging accident while saving his life. Thomas's family endures much hardship at the hands of his father's former employer and a great-aunt. Thomas also has to protect his mentally challenged oldest brother, Big Joe. Through the trials and tribulations of his young life, Thomas has his older brother and best friend Charlie by his side.The First World War is at hand when they age up and become madely in love with a girl named Molly.The brothers enlist into the military and Are glad to hea they are going to the front lines but, worry hen they will be able to see their family again. I realy enjoyed reading this book and give it 5 stars in my review! *Plot Discussions and Spoilers Below* Characters: Thomas:A mature young boy that feels guilty for the death of his dad and is in love with Molly and becomes jealous of his older Brother and enlists in the Army underaged. Charlie: The older brother who is force to enlist. Gets molly pregnant and protects his brothers from anything, even if it means disobeying orders to save his brothers life that thratens his. Momma: A strong women who is forced to take a job and deals with the hardships of being a widow Pappa: The dad who is killed in a logging accedent by saving his son. The Colonel: Rich retired man who served in the army and has his own estates. Sgt.Blackburn : Sgt. who dislikes Charlie and forces the harshest punishment upon him when he does wrong. Protagonist; Charlie @ Thomas : They deal with the harshest of problems at young age and do it together. Antgaonist: The harshnes of the world @ Sgt.Blackburn: they both have no mercy upon the 2 brothers and end up taking many lives and a love. The way they struggle through the war and are forced into a suicide attempt to cross a bunker way called \"No Mans Land\",that is guarded by a turret of Germans. They disobey orders from their commander and end up taking the death penalty from the court of Army and take Charlies life by saving Thomas by not going. This is a truley amazing book that caught my short intension spand and was glad that i took the time to read this. ...more Leora Cohen-Tig\u00f6r Period 5 2/25/14 The stage is set on the harrowing battlefield. A young man, Private Peaceful, as he is known, is counting down the hours until his untimely death. As the minutes tick by, he watches his life flash in front of his own eyes. He sees how unsure of himself he was as a little child; his ultimate loneliness as his brother leaves him to go off to school. When his brother joins the \u201cBigguns\u201d in the upper school, he is left stranded with the \u201cTiddlers\u201d, the lower school Leora Cohen-Tig\u00f6r Period 5 2/25/14 The stage is set on the harrowing battlefield. A young man, Private Peaceful, as he is known, is counting down the hours until his untimely death. As the minutes tick by, he watches his life flash in front of his own eyes. He sees how unsure of himself he was as a little child; his ultimate loneliness as his brother leaves him to go off to school. When his brother joins the \u201cBigguns\u201d in the upper school, he is left stranded with the \u201cTiddlers\u201d, the lower school. However, he finds his true joy in Molly, his only friend in the school. He knows from the moment that he met her that he would love her forever. Even though his love for Molly is strong, his hatred for himself is stronger. He believes he sent his own father to his untimely death, by a mistake with a falling tree. So when his older brother Charlie\u2019s dog dies, Molly gets pregnant by Charlie\u2019s hand, and Charlie leaves for the army, Thomas, or as he likes to be called, Tommo feels as if his life is crumbling before his very eyes. So in a vain attempt to gain his control back in his life, he illegally joins the army, him being underage and is left with his complex feelings and his brother on and off the battlefield. This is a story of love, law, and the true meaning of war. War is not only waged on the battleground, but inside the hearts of others. Author <---A>Michael Morpurgo</---A> exquisitely paints a picture of the life on and off the battlefield. He makes the reader feel the excruciating losses and tremendous gains that all the characters within his tale endure. He creates a connection between the players in his story and the readers, that ties in all the emotions through that link, making the book an enticing and wonderful read. He not only shows the views through the eyes of the characters on the battle field, but also through those left at home; where the heart of the family is. This story is divinely written by a very capable author who portraits the dimensions of life; the loss, the affection, and the complexity that makes us all human. ...more I have been a fan of Michael Murpurgo for some time now and have enjoyed every book of his that I've read so far, but Private Peaceful takes his writing to another level. It's a long time since I've been moved so much by a story, this one left me with the same feeling as the end of 'The Boy In Striped Pyjamas'. I smiled and I cried and I wont forget this for a very long time - if ever. The story begins with Private Tommo Peaceful reflecting life from the battlefields of the First World War. He th I have been a fan of Michael Murpurgo for some time now and have enjoyed every book of his that I've read so far, but Private Peaceful takes his writing to another level. It's a long time since I've been moved so much by a story, this one left me with the same feeling as the end of 'The Boy In Striped Pyjamas'. I smiled and I cried and I wont forget this for a very long time - if ever. The story begins with Private Tommo Peaceful reflecting life from the battlefields of the First World War. He thinks back to his childhood fondly - memories of his late father, his loving mother, his much respected older brother Charlie, his slow but gentle brother Big Joe and not least his childhood love - Molly. His memories are those of innocence and friendship, hard-luck and love. As his story progresses, Tommo and Charlie join up to fight in the Great War - Tommo is only 15. They fight side by side and look after each other all the way. Each chapter is full of Tommo's memories, but each chapter also brings the reader closer to the present time - and to the life-changing moment that leaves you breathless. The ending of the story is stark, brutal, heart-rending and tragic. The tenderness of the writing and the loss felt by the reader is stunning. Although a book that is aimed at children and young adults - I would recommend that every adult read this - it's not a long story, but the message of the almost forgotten heroes of the First World War is vitally important - especially as the young men of our country are still giving their lives on a daily basis. ...more Interest level: 5th + Reading level: easy, short book Genre: historical fiction, World War I, WWI, soldiers Read alikes: War Horse, Kensuke's Kingdom Michael Morpurgo is one of my favorite authors, and this book is, in my opinion, one of his best. Incredibly, \"Private Peaceful\" is Michael Morpurgo's 100th book. \"Private Peaceful\"is a short and easy read but, boy, the story will stay with you for a long, long time. It takes place during WWI when many young men were eager to take part in the war. Some Interest level: 5th + Reading level: easy, short book Genre: historical fiction, World War I, WWI, soldiers Read alikes: War Horse, Kensuke's Kingdom Michael Morpurgo is one of my favorite authors, and this book is, in my opinion, one of his best. Incredibly, \"Private Peaceful\" is Michael Morpurgo's 100th book. \"Private Peaceful\"is a short and easy read but, boy, the story will stay with you for a long, long time. It takes place during WWI when many young men were eager to take part in the war. Some even faked their age to get enlisted. Thomas was one of these boys - he was only 14 when he followed his older brother, Charlie, to Europe as a soldier. The book describes all the horrors of the war and what life was like in the trenches (mud, rats, gas attacks, etc). The ending comes as a real shock, so beware..... If you enjoy this book try \"War Horse\" as well - it's an account of a horse that moves from a life on a farm to the battle fields of WWI. This is my second favorite book by Morpurgo. My third favorite book is \"Kensuke's Kingdom\" which is about a shipwrecked boy who discovers a Japanese soldier from WWII who has been living on the deserted island alone for decades without realizing that WWII was long over (based on true stories). Go to Michael Morpurgo's [ http://www.michaelmorpurgo.org/about_... ]website to find out more.... His website has good biographical information about him, it lists all his books, and it includes a top ten Q&A section. ...more Awesome read. Definitely recommended. Full review up soon. Private Peaceful by Michael Morpurgo. Private Peaceful, a touching story about love, friendship, family, war and injustice. Private Peaceful is a story that shows the power of words. It\u2019s a story that shows the power of promises. Private Peaceful is a children\u2019s story that reaches the heart and plays with it like a toy car. Thomas Peaceful is reliving and retelling his life. He is telling it as of the point where something terrible is happening in his life. Thomas\u2019s best friend and brother, Charl Private Peaceful by Michael Morpurgo. Private Peaceful, a touching story about love, friendship, family, war and injustice. Private Peaceful is a story that shows the power of words. It\u2019s a story that shows the power of promises. Private Peaceful is a children\u2019s story that reaches the heart and plays with it like a toy car. Thomas Peaceful is reliving and retelling his life. He is telling it as of the point where something terrible is happening in his life. Thomas\u2019s best friend and brother, Charlie, has been inhumanly sentenced to be killed by the firing squad while fight in the war. Charlie disobeyed orders for the pure reason of sibling love, and suicide. The order was pure suicide. Charlie stayed by his brother\u2019s injured side instead of follow the Sergeants orders. It was seen as cowardice. Charlie got shot. Thomas is the narrator. He is telling us his story. His story of love, friendship, family, war and injustice. Thomas is telling his lived in a country village during World War 1. He is grieved by his father\u2019s death. Thomas in his heart takes full responsibility for his death, making it his deepest darkest secret. He loved his dad, so did his brothers Charlie and Big Joe. Big Joe is Thomas\u2019s oldest brother. He is mentally challenged. His mother also loved his father very much. Everyone did but his Great Aunt Grandma Wolf. Then a girl named Molly comes into Thomas\u2019s life. She is the same age as his old brother, Charlie. Charlie and Thomas both have a crush on her. They end up very sore at each other. Charlie ends up getting Molly pregnant, and marrying her. This hurt Thomas and his friendship with Charlie more that you could imagine. There was only one thing could bring them back together, war. This book was a really fantastic read. It moved me. It contained such emotion that swept me off my feet. You feel every moment in this book. It is believable, the characters are believable. It has a smart shift between past and present with the narrator. It also portrays there growing up very well, you can tell in the language and thought patterns that each character was constantly evolving. There were moments in this book that really touched the heart. Such a subtle bond between brothers is just so strong that you can feel it. You feel the emotions of each character through-out the novel. Little moments in the book just melted the heart with the pure beauty of the scene being sculptured into the minds of the readers. It shows the power of basic human emotions and morals. It usuals the magical bond of blood to truly show you how strong a connection between two people can be. The book has constant twists and turns, never staying boring. It brings characters into the plot as quickly as some jump out. It moulds solid emotional attachment with the main character, Thomas, and those around him. It shows his emotion he has for everyone that comes into his life. Private Peaceful is a fantastic novel for all those wanting to smile, frown, laugh, cry and all that is in between. It is a really nice easy read which just flows like an ocean. Highly recommended. ...more Priavate Peaceful by Michael Morpurgo, is rich in history and leaves the reader pondering the next sequence of events. In World War One the Peaceful's are struggling to keep a house on the Colonel's property with the recent death of their father. A strong possible option is war. Morpurgo develops both the main character, Thomas, also known as Tommo, and sub characters like real people. The characters are engaging with their human strengths and weaknesses. The characters are developed directly; mo Priavate Peaceful by Michael Morpurgo, is rich in history and leaves the reader pondering the next sequence of events. In World War One the Peaceful's are struggling to keep a house on the Colonel's property with the recent death of their father. A strong possible option is war. Morpurgo develops both the main character, Thomas, also known as Tommo, and sub characters like real people. The characters are engaging with their human strengths and weaknesses. The characters are developed directly; mostly through Tommo and Charlie's conversations and interactions. Charlie, Tommo's older brother, helps reveal an implied theme; one's courage doesn't necessarily help in a time of war. With the choice of enlisting for the war in the minds of the brothers, courage is racing through their blood. The brothers choose combat, and on the battle field Charlie more than ever is courageous and bold towards his Sergeant. However, will his courage help or hurt in the long run in the bitter time of war? Michael Morpurgo's purpose of Private Peaceful , was to engross the reader in a book while teaching one about life and choices families dealt with in World War One. Morpurgo's purpose was only partly achieved. The story was at points boring and seemed unrelated to what the book was about. The first quarter of the story had nothing to do with war and the word was only mentioned once or twice leaving one wondering if war was ever going to occur. Although Morpurgo failed to captivate the reader, he did succeed in incorporating facts about World War One. The setting helped Morpurgo, from the battlefield, to no man's land, the home front and trenches, all helped him achieve the task of intertwining the history of World War One. The plot was yet another element that achieved the history aspect of Morpurgo's purpose. The inciting incident of the possible enlistment of soldiers and Charlie and Tommo's acceptance leaves one to wonder what will happen to the brothers on the break of war. After the choice is made Morpurgo has set himself up to fire out facts. As Morpurgo sets himself to beyond achieve his purpose in incorporating facts, he leaves some readers uninterested, but somehow grabs their attention again with the rising action and climax. Morgpurgo does a fantastic job with his skills of incorporation, but he loses his readers in the beginning, with what seems like an on going sequence of pointless events. ...more The story is about a young teenager named Tomas \"Tommo\" Peaceful. He tells us about the experiences he had living in his home village during World War I. His oldest brother, Big Joe, has learning disabilities and is often times looked out by his younger brothers. Thomas had another brother named Charlie, whom he spent a lot of his time with prior to the war. Before the war, he tells us about the pretty girl named Molly, a wonderful girl he met on the first day of school. Tommo knew from the mome The story is about a young teenager named Tomas \"Tommo\" Peaceful. He tells us about the experiences he had living in his home village during World War I. His oldest brother, Big Joe, has learning disabilities and is often times looked out by his younger brothers. Thomas had another brother named Charlie, whom he spent a lot of his time with prior to the war. Before the war, he tells us about the pretty girl named Molly, a wonderful girl he met on the first day of school. Tommo knew from the moment that he met her that he would love her forever. However, his brother Charlie feels the same way about Molly. Thomas, Charlie, and Molly do everything together, and everything seems to be falling into place until Molly begins to fall in love with Charlie. This breaks Tommo's heart and he feels isolated from the two of them. Molly's parents forbade her seeing Charlie and Tommo. Despite this, Molly and Charlie continue to see each other by meeting in secret. Tommo would help send letters they would write to each other. Soon after, Molly is kicked out of her house for being pregnant with Charlie's child. Following this, the Colonel who is the owner of the Peaceful's household forces Charlie to go to war or their house would be taken from them. Tommo has followed Charlie through thick and thin and this is no exception, Tommo also joins the war with Charlie. The real question emerges from this, will the two brother be able to hold on to their courage through out the war? I enjoyed reading Micheal Morpugo's \"Private Peaceful\". The book really hooked me from the first couple of chapters. The book very engaging to read, and has a unimaginable ending. Despite the time period from which this book in written, the reader can relate some of the characters struggles in to their own daily lives. The book displays the true hardships of war, and shows us the loses and gains of war. As well as the emotion pain as a result of the war. This book is a great read for really annoying for enjoys a fairly short but action pact novel. ...more Charlie, an eighteen year old boy was living a good life, is struck in the face of war, specifically World War I, and is forced to go. The real question is should his younger brother, Tommo, go with him. Tommo and Charlie lived a happy life in England, in a simple little town where no big problems really occur. With the brink of war at hand however, the army is recruiting any boy of age to fight, which Charlie was. Tommo, however, was not. Tommo is sixteen years old at the time, and the military Charlie, an eighteen year old boy was living a good life, is struck in the face of war, specifically World War I, and is forced to go. The real question is should his younger brother, Tommo, go with him. Tommo and Charlie lived a happy life in England, in a simple little town where no big problems really occur. With the brink of war at hand however, the army is recruiting any boy of age to fight, which Charlie was. Tommo, however, was not. Tommo is sixteen years old at the time, and the military cutoff is seventeen years of age. He still decides to go, because he wanted to be with his brother when times were hard. In war, the two brothers spent several hardships together, spending weeks in the miserable conditions that came with the use of trench warfare. Several of their friends died right in front of their eyes, and witnessed both enemies and allies shot down and killed. They both made sure the two of them would stick together to the very end. Private Peaceful gives a perfect description of a regular boy who goes through all of the perils of war. The book is filled to the brim with death, struggle, torture, and heart-wrenching tragedies. The characters are really well developed, where you could tell what was going through each character's mind at any moment, and understand who they were as a person. The problems soldiers had fighting in the war with the new weapons and methods of fighting that were even more deadly than ever before in war were perfectly described. The boys never knew what would happen the next day, and when they may get shot, and wouldn\u2019t be able to see the next time the sun rises. When I picked the book up at first, I couldn\u2019t put it down, and I don\u2019t particularly find war books as my cup of tea. I couldn\u2019t believe how well-written the book was and how into reading the book I was. Private Peaceful is a great book for teenagers my age, whether you are a war freak or not. ...more Private peaceful is a book that gives each word a new meaning, something that gives the reader a new perspective on a family living through difficult times. What you thought you knew about life during war, alters. Private Peaceful tells of one's journey through life through the eyes of two brothers, Thomas, referred to as Tommo, and his older brother Charlie- the bold-minded boy who is not afraid to speak his mind to anyone about anything. As these two grow up with war in the backs of their mind Private peaceful is a book that gives each word a new meaning, something that gives the reader a new perspective on a family living through difficult times. What you thought you knew about life during war, alters. Private Peaceful tells of one's journey through life through the eyes of two brothers, Thomas, referred to as Tommo, and his older brother Charlie- the bold-minded boy who is not afraid to speak his mind to anyone about anything. As these two grow up with war in the backs of their mind, and their family in the middle of their heart, they make life and death decisions that could end up getting them executed-and not by the enemy. After the death of their father, the Peaceful family lives in a cottage on the Colonel's property, trying to make ends meet. These brothers are raised by their widowed mother, along with their special and loud brother Big Joe. They grow up alongside a girl named Molly, who is a bit older than Tommo. Over the years she transforms into the family's light of hope. For she holds onto hope for the entire family in times of despair. The Peaceful family raises Molly as practically one of their own. Through triumph and loss, the Peaceful struggles to keep their family together when World War I is invading their homes and personal lives. The author's purpose of writing Private Peaceful was to likely describe in great detail the state of mind of a family in a war where their family is divided. This book gave each character a well developed personality, which was a great strength of the author in this piece. However, I felt that Private Peaceful dragged in some parts of the story... I would only recommend this book to those who enjoy history and reading about it. Some other flaws I noticed in the story were that many parts repeated, not creating much diversity in the story. So, that is the main reason I would give Private Peaceful only three stars. ...more I seem to have read quite a few novels about the 1914-18 war. It is a subject which interests me - novels which detail the personal experiences of its characters in the war. This novel is ostensibly written for older children/young adults by the author of the more famous War Horse (which I have also read). It is, however, worth adding this novel to the library of anyone having an interest in the subject. Even though the novel is aimed at the younger reader, it doesn't shy away from telling a hard I seem to have read quite a few novels about the 1914-18 war. It is a subject which interests me - novels which detail the personal experiences of its characters in the war. This novel is ostensibly written for older children/young adults by the author of the more famous War Horse (which I have also read). It is, however, worth adding this novel to the library of anyone having an interest in the subject. Even though the novel is aimed at the younger reader, it doesn't shy away from telling a hard hitting story, which is often harrowing. The central characters, Charlie Peaceful and his younger brother Thomas, and their older brother Joe (who is disabled) have been brought up by their widowed mother in rural Devon. Life has been tough for the family financially and they are beholden to the elderly Colonel on whose estate they live (tied cottage) and for whom Mrs Peaceful works in order to retain their home. The Colonel exerts a huge influence over the people who work on his estate and it is he who forces the two brothers to enlist despite Tommo being under age and Charlie having just married his pregnant girlfriend, Molly. Charlie is a very confident, often outspoken, young man who is unafraid of standing up to authority when he senses an injustice. This does not bode well in the army. His encounters with the brutal Sergeant Hanley at the training camp in Etaples leave his card marked. Each chapter is entitled with a time, beginning with \"Five Past Ten\" and ending with \"One Minute to Six\". The introductory paragraph to each chapter builds the picture gradually so that the reader slowly begins to realise where this is heading. It is nevertheless a shock. Whilst I enjoyed the novel, I would have serious misgivings about my children reading it until quite a bit older. ...more Thomas (Tommo) Peaceful has always lived within the footsteps of his older brother, Charlie Peaceful. The two brothers do everything together, and whenever something happens to Tommo, Charlie is always right there to protect him. But the one thing Charlie can't protect him from is the guilt he feels for his father's death, which was an accident when a tree fell on him; but he can try to help him through it. On his first day on school, Thomas meets his soon to be, love of his life, Molly. Coincid Thomas (Tommo) Peaceful has always lived within the footsteps of his older brother, Charlie Peaceful. The two brothers do everything together, and whenever something happens to Tommo, Charlie is always right there to protect him. But the one thing Charlie can't protect him from is the guilt he feels for his father's death, which was an accident when a tree fell on him; but he can try to help him through it. On his first day on school, Thomas meets his soon to be, love of his life, Molly. Coincidentally, Charlie falls in love with her too. The three do everything together after that, and everything seems perfect, until Molly falls in love with Charlie. Molly's parents forbade her from seeing the Peacefuls, but Charlie and Molly continue meeting in secret, and sending letters. Molly is soon kicked out of their house, since she has become pregnant; with Charlie's baby. The Colonel, their employer and owner of their house, forces Charlie to go to war, and Tommo follows, like always. Will they both be strong enough to survive the war? I thoroughly enjoyed reading Michael Morpugo's 'Private Peaceful.' It was an engaging, historically accurate book, with a riveting plot. It wholly narrates the emotions and thoughts of all sides during the war. Although this book is set in the past, the reader is able to relate some of the characters' experiences to their own today. 'Private Peaceful' also illustrates the costs and gains of war, and the physical and emotional pain dealt with as a result of the war. Morpugo is a savvy author, and 'Private Peaceful' is definitely a worthwhile read for anyone that enjoys a good story, but also can appreciate some of the historical references woven in. ...more \u2022 Igor Kovalyov \u2022 APA citation: Morpurgo, M. (2003). Private Peaceful. London: Collins. \u2022 Genre: Historical Fiction \u2022 Awards (If applicable): N/A \u2022 Format: Print \u2022 Selection Process: Recommendation \u2022 Review: Private Peaceful is a wonderful read for any age. Targeted to pre-teens this story takes place during World War I and is told by Thomas. Thomas is the younger brother to Charlie. We are treated to this story through a series of Thomas' memories of growing up with their older brother Big Joe and par \u2022\tIgor Kovalyov \u2022\tAPA citation: Morpurgo, M. (2003). Private Peaceful. London: Collins. \u2022\tGenre: Historical Fiction \u2022\tAwards (If applicable): N/A \u2022\tFormat: Print \u2022\tSelection Process: Recommendation \u2022\tReview: Private Peaceful is a wonderful read for any age. Targeted to pre-teens this story takes place during World War I and is told by Thomas. Thomas is the younger brother to Charlie. We are treated to this story through a series of Thomas' memories of growing up with their older brother Big Joe and parents. The story is one that will tug at your heart as we watch characters go through the hardest ordeals in life, love and death. This book takes us on a roller coaster of emotion as we grow are put into the lives of these loveable characters. The story enters World War I and the brothers enlist. As Thomas recalls this terrible event of his brother and his death we see some amazing emotion throughout the book, simply a delightful read due to the well developed and realistic characters found throughout. The book contains twists to keep the reader entertained. The story shows Thomas and the emotion that he has towards everyone around him. It really is a warm look into the lives of these characters. Morpurgo does an amazing job at allowing the reader to connect to these characters that are ever evolving throughout the story as time passes. Personally I loved this story because it shows how strong love and a bond can be between people. As we find in the end of this story their brotherly bond was stronger than anything else and the consequences didn't matter. Simply a great read especially if you enjoy a good emotional trip into a time almost 100 years ago and despite the age difference the love and emotion resonates to today. \u2022\tRecommendation: Highly Recommended ...more If any novel be permitted five stars, it is Private Peaceful. The story takes place during World War I. Tommo Peaceful and his older brother, Charlie, have been enlisted and go off to fight. Tragic experiences leave Tommo to come to terms with everything. Tommo and Charlie are compelled to compose vigorous decisions while fighting the war. Love and hatred play a key role in this novel. Molly, a childhood friend, falls in love with Charlie as Charlie falls in love with her, too. But what will hap If any novel be permitted five stars, it is Private Peaceful. The story takes place during World War I. Tommo Peaceful and his older brother, Charlie, have been enlisted and go off to fight. Tragic experiences leave Tommo to come to terms with everything. Tommo and Charlie are compelled to compose vigorous decisions while fighting the war. Love and hatred play a key role in this novel. Molly, a childhood friend, falls in love with Charlie as Charlie falls in love with her, too. But what will happen when Tommo feels like a third wheel when he starts to fall in love with Molly, too? At the beginning of the novel, Tommo is self-centered and is envious of Charlie and Molly. Throughout this story, he changes drastically. By the end, he becomes mature and is self-sufficient. He cares more about the people around him. Charlie stays the mostly the same caring, charming, self that he always is throughout the story. Although being to war, can change a person. They can see graphic events that don't just go away with a blink of an eye. I would highly recommend Private Peaceful to anyone that enjoys suspenseful, comedic, and sad novels. All throughout this novel, I was kept on the edge of my seat. It is a short read so it wouldn't take more than a couple of days, but is very much worth taking that time for. The characters are truly engaging and always had me questioning what their next action would be. The story starts as they were kids and ends as they have grown up. I, personally, enjoy that aspect of this novel because it shows how they grew as a person. All in all, a fantastic read! ...more Private Peaceful is an exciting book. There is love and war nicely tied together. The chapters would end, but you wouldn't want to stop reading. Private Peaceful was a book that was interesting to read. there was great storyline that went along with true facts that were strewn all through the book. Private Peaceful was a mix of heart-breaking tragedy and happiness, right with it. There were joyous moments, and sad times, but that made the book so much better. The book really shows how much Tom Private Peaceful is an exciting book. There is love and war nicely tied together. The chapters would end, but you wouldn't want to stop reading. Private Peaceful was a book that was interesting to read. there was great storyline that went along with true facts that were strewn all through the book. Private Peaceful was a mix of heart-breaking tragedy and happiness, right with it. There were joyous moments, and sad times, but that made the book so much better. The book really shows how much Tom and Charlie grow and mature. As you read you see the slow development of these characters as the book progresses. I liked reading the time that they grew up through. Private Peaceful wasn't my favorite book. I would probably only recommend it to people who enjoy war books, and maybe a few others. It wasn't extremely enticing, in my opinion. It was good for the books I have had to read for school in the past. I wasn't completely interested in the whole war concept, it didn't fascinate me to much. But, as far as selected books I have to read, private Peaceful was a good pick. It kept me hooked in many places, and was still filled with true facts and events to prove the reality. I think the author did a great job portraying the fact that all of the characters grew and matured throughout the whole book entirely. ...more Private peaceful is a classic story about love, war and death. The main character is Thomas, also called Tommo. Tommo Lives with his older brothers Charlie, Big Joe, and mother. This story takes place during World War I. When Tommo starts school he meets a girl named Molly who is very nice and helpful. She cares very much for Tommo, and looks out for him at school. Soon after school starts Molly starts to come home with Charlie and Tommo. Every day they run down by the creek and swim in the wate Private peaceful is a classic story about love, war and death. The main character is Thomas, also called Tommo. Tommo Lives with his older brothers Charlie, Big Joe, and mother. This story takes place during World War I. When Tommo starts school he meets a girl named Molly who is very nice and helpful. She cares very much for Tommo, and looks out for him at school. Soon after school starts Molly starts to come home with Charlie and Tommo. Every day they run down by the creek and swim in the waters. Not long after Charlie and Tommo meet Molly they both fall in love with her. Although, later on in the book Molly falls in love with Charlie, not Tommo. When Tommo finds out he is depressed. To show how brave he is to Molly when war breaks out and soldiers are needed to go to Europe to fight the Germans Tommo offers to go to war with Charlie. In the end after all the convincing Molly can do along with mother, Tommo decides to go to war. While at war Charlie and Tommo face many experiences that they never would have expected to face in their lifetime. Private Peaceful, written by Michael Morpurgo, is a suspenseful read about love, war and death. It is a tragic story until the very end. Present Peaceful is a quick read, yet it is suspenseful. It will keep you on the edge of your seat throughout the whole book. If you enjoy tragic stories about war this is the book for you. ...more Thomas Peaceful has a life filled with guilt he feels despite having a happy life. Ever since his father saved him from a falling tree he has felt guilt for the loss of his father. Nonetheless, Thomas or Tommo spends time in his childhood with his brother and best friend Charlie, and his friend Molly. As well as with his mother and Big Joe his brother. Throughout his childhood of horrors (with Grandma Wolf living with them and the guilt of his father), and happiness he lives this same life. Wit Thomas Peaceful has a life filled with guilt he feels despite having a happy life. Ever since his father saved him from a falling tree he has felt guilt for the loss of his father. Nonetheless, Thomas or Tommo spends time in his childhood with his brother and best friend Charlie, and his friend Molly. As well as with his mother and Big Joe his brother. Throughout his childhood of horrors (with Grandma Wolf living with them and the guilt of his father), and happiness he lives this same life. With his family. Until World War I comes along and Charlie signs up for the war. Despite being only 15 Tommo signs up for the war and his life will be forever changed. Private Peaceful was a good book at times. As well as action packed at times. I felt that the book started out very slow and towards the end of the story it became a thrilling read. The book was captivating at end in scenes of war and life in the trenches. As well as giving a glimpse as to what World War I was like. Which completely contrasted the first 100 pages of the book of Tommo growing up with not many problems besides the Colonel, Grandma Wolf, and the Father happening. Overall this book was an interesting read and I would recommend it. However, I would not expect a top notch book that you can't put down, until you reach the end. ...more Thomas Peaceful is a boy in Great Britain, a country both touched and tainted by World War One. As the early days of peace and security pass by Thomas and his brothers, the war looms ever closer to their (mostly) sleepy village. One day the tenuous thread from which Thomas's life hangs from snaps abruptly. He and his brother Charlie are sent away to war on the whims of the wealthy man who rules the town. As they battle the trials and tribulations of the war zone together, they become bonded in a Thomas Peaceful is a boy in Great Britain, a country both touched and tainted by World War One. As the early days of peace and security pass by Thomas and his brothers, the war looms ever closer to their (mostly) sleepy village. One day the tenuous thread from which Thomas's life hangs from snaps abruptly. He and his brother Charlie are sent away to war on the whims of the wealthy man who rules the town. As they battle the trials and tribulations of the war zone together, they become bonded in a way that cannot be achieved by menial tasks. This bond never lasts in an area so stricken with war. Do not let the historic element in this book fool you; the book has an underlying plot line that will leave you intrigued. Well-written and satisfying, \"Private Peaceful\" also carries a facet of pure brotherly love that is not normally found in war stories. However, with a bland exposition that could have been more gripping, \"Private Peaceful\" is not a true master's work. The novel also seems to follow in the footsteps of other war tales before it. For example, it has a striking resemblance to \"My Brother Sam is Dead\". This book does not stand out of the crowd, and if compared to other books such as \"Cracker\", it would be forgotten. While satisfactory, this book is one of the more mediocre war novels. ...more I've read this book twice now. First time I read it was on a whim because I thought that it looked rather interesting. The second time I read this was at my school and the class laughed at some parts of the novel as it was quite funny in places. Private peaceful had me hooked from the start being so excited and sad. It was like a mixture of emotions in one small novel. My favourite character from Private peaceful I'd have to say would be Charlie. He was such a kind and peaceful character (hence I've read this book twice now. First time I read it was on a whim because I thought that it looked rather interesting. The second time I read this was at my school and the class laughed at some parts of the novel as it was quite funny in places. Private peaceful had me hooked from the start being so excited and sad. It was like a mixture of emotions in one small novel. My favourite character from Private peaceful I'd have to say would be Charlie. He was such a kind and peaceful character (hence the title.) The main narrator Tommo was always making me laugh until the very end. I also have to say that I don't cry at many books I've only cried at about 3 including this one. So if you'd like a good laugh and a good cry this is definitely the book you should go for. Morpurgo makes his books so fun with a twist of sadness, which is why he is one of my favourite authors. All his books make me both sad and happy. He never fails to being the books that you need. I'd say that Private peaceful is the best book he's written in my opinion whereas most would say war horse. The film also does a good job of giving it justice so I also would recommend the film. I would recommend this for children, adults and all kinds of people because really Morpurgo's writing can suit anyone and fits in with the genres that all kinds of people would enjoy. So I'd say \u2018Just read!!!' ...more", "Title": "Private Peaceful"},
