{"Comments": "This is one of those horribly complicated books that is simultaneously strong and weak in the same exact areas at the same time. *groan* I mean, it starts off strongly with fantasy-type trials and tribulations in the empire, a king dying and his son being supplanted by the king's best friend, taking over the kingdom.<---F> Pretty standard</---F>... but then the whole other part of this novel is chock-full of purely wonderful heavy SF ideas that isn't entirely obvious at first but then becomes an infodump mast This is one of those horribly complicated books that is simultaneously strong and weak in the same exact areas at the same time. *groan* I mean, it starts off strongly with fantasy-type trials and tribulations in the empire, a king dying and his son being supplanted by the king's best friend, taking over the kingdom. Pretty standard... but then the whole other part of this novel is chock-full of purely wonderful heavy SF ideas that isn't entirely obvious at first but then becomes an infodump masterpiece of oddness and wonder and a world that really belongs as a movie just because the visual elements are completely amazing. The world. Oh my lord, the world. Layers and layers and layers with ancient species and high tech and even ascended species. These humans are only on some outer layer. The infodumping doesn't do it justice. Just... wow. Plus there's also different factions of the Culture,<---M> Special Circumstances against the rest</---M>, and no one seems to agree how to deal with people. :) And then there's the rogue Culture fragments that may or may not be in with the actual culture (<---B>either side</---B>), and the sister of the poor deposed kingling decided to quit Special Circumstances to help him out. Everything else just devolves into a huge technothriller with huge stakes and ships and some really amazing descriptions and adventure. So why am I only giving this a 4 star? Because while the ideas are amazing and this author is known for his wonderful characters and his ability with traditional fiction, too, the character's names are too difficult and the ideas are too info-dumpy rather than a flowing masterpiece. And to be entirely fair, I don't know how he could have done it better except by turning this novel into something much longer and gentle. So it feels flawed and utterly brilliant at the same time. Which is a shame. I really want to LOVE this novel, not just appreciate it to death. Which I do. Hell, I want to kind of worship it, but I can't quite LOVE it. How frustrating. I'll keep going! For straight ideas, Banks is one of those grand masters of SF. :) His characters, for their flaws, are still some of the most richly imagined. The plots are usually mind blowing. And if he could ever keep it all flowing and working together right without tripping over each other, I might start worshipping the man as a god. :) ...more This is a book I really wanted to like, and failed. I like <---A>Iain M. Banks</---A> style, I like his willingness to run risks, to give you the whole punch. And in this book, he barely delivers. The book are 500 pages of set-up, and forty pages of resolution, and not a very satisfying one. Too many characters doing not very interesting things in utmost detail, and then the interesting parts are just glossed over. Add wooden (and not very new in his books) characters, when part of his magic is making great in This is a book I really wanted to like, and failed. I like Iain M. Banks style, I like his willingness to run risks, to give you the whole punch. And in this book, he barely delivers. The book are 500 pages of set-up, and forty pages of resolution, and not a very satisfying one. Too many characters doing not very interesting things in utmost detail, and then the interesting parts are just glossed over. Add wooden (and not very new in his books) characters, when part of his magic is making great inhuman characters. This time even the humans are flat. The only real interest are a few imaginary locations, which are well thought and well presented. But that's it, nice locations, a quite straightforward plot (advancing at a glacial pace during the set-up). I want to emphasize the glossing over. Here we lose the high adrenaline space opera descriptions, the witty banter, the powerful messages, the moral dilemmas. They are potentially there, they just are not in the text. And knowing the villain may be feeling a certain unease is not a moral quandary. It is probably the Banks book I have spent more time reading, and that is a bad thing. I think I will reread Use of Weapons, that explores many of the same areas much better. ...more [Swirling patterns. Weird, vaguely familiar, futuristic music. Is it the Doctor Who theme tune? Slowly the camera pulls back to show the title Celebrity Death Match Special: Blackadder versus The Culture and we realize it's an unusual setting of the Blackadder song. Dissolve to ROWAN ATKINSON and HUGH LAURIE, who looks rather unhappy] ATKINSON: Is everything alright, sir? LAURIE: Oh yes, rather, absolutely spiffing, top hole, couldn't be better. Except for one little thing. The rest of this review is [Swirling patterns. Weird, vaguely familiar, futuristic music. Is it the Doctor Who theme tune? Slowly the camera pulls back to show the title Celebrity Death Match Special: Blackadder versus The Culture and we realize it's an unusual setting of the Blackadder song. Dissolve to ROWAN ATKINSON and HUGH LAURIE, who looks rather unhappy] ATKINSON: Is everything alright, sir? LAURIE: Oh yes, rather, absolutely spiffing, top hole, couldn't be better. Except for one little thing. The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons) ...more <+++>Matter</+++> starts out with some baroque steampunk fantasia with grim political dealings that reminds me of Jack Vance, George R.R. Martin, and Mervyn Peake. Than it switches to a wide screen galactic romp and winds ups as a apocalyptic high-tech thriller with more than couple elements from Alastair Reynold\u2019s Revelation Space. There is three pronged story moving through these stages involving three siblings. The relation between Ferbin and his servant Holse is filled with odd couple comedy like Cerva <+++>Matter</+++> starts out with some baroque steampunk fantasia with grim political dealings that reminds me of Jack Vance, George R.R. Martin, and Mervyn Peake. Than it switches to a wide screen galactic romp and winds ups as a apocalyptic high-tech thriller with more than couple elements from Alastair Reynold\u2019s Revelation Space. There is three pronged story moving through these stages involving three siblings. The relation between Ferbin and his servant Holse is filled with odd couple comedy like Cervantes or Wodehouse, Djan travels home through morphing political climate, and Oramen has a fight for survival ripe with bitter irony. The book is tragic and funny in equal strides and quite dark and violent with action scenes that manage to be tense and absurd at the same time. The eerie scenes on the planet Bulthmass are one of many highlights. But, really there a lot as can\u2019t quite remember having this much fun reading a book in awhile, as it is that mix of serious and entertaining I love. With recognizable allusions and similarities to Hamlet, Revelation Space, Song of Fire and Ice, Vance\u2019s Dragon Masters, Lovecraft, Dr. Who, and Douglas Adams, it might seem that this is a hodge podge but it felt cohesive with great characters, self referential wit, brutality, and astounding imagination. This may not be a better novel, than say, Use of Weapons but I think it might be more fun. ...more I'd go as far as saying that this is the 3rd best novel in the series so far, after \"The Player of Games\" and \"Use of Weapons\" in that order. I was blown away by the quality of the story, the interesting and well-developed characters, and the sheer scale of the novel. Four stars, highly recommended. but if you haven't read Culture novels before, I recommend just starting at the beginning. \"Consider Phlebas\" is still the weakest novel in the series, but it is the first one and sort of a rite of p I'd go as far as saying that this is the 3rd best novel in the series so far, after \"The Player of Games\" and \"Use of Weapons\" in that order. I was blown away by the quality of the story, the interesting and well-developed characters, and the sheer scale of the novel. Four stars, highly recommended. but if you haven't read Culture novels before, I recommend just starting at the beginning. \"Consider Phlebas\" is still the weakest novel in the series, but it is the first one and sort of a rite of passage. After that, it's nothing but excellence. If you're into science fiction at all, these are must-reads. ...more The 8th book in The Culture series i.e. Matter was a big let down for me, because it had pretty interesting ideas like Shell word and Nest world but Banks spends so much time exploring those ideas, and giving you info dumps regarding those ideas that the story of the book takes a back seat in the whole book. Also he uses a lot of complex names for his characters which after some time becomes quite irritating as you do not have index on audio book to remember all the characters. Some of the strong The 8th book in The Culture series i.e. Matter was a big let down for me, because it had pretty interesting ideas like Shell word and Nest world but Banks spends so much time exploring those ideas, and giving you info dumps regarding those ideas that the story of the book takes a back seat in the whole book. Also he uses a lot of complex names for his characters which after some time becomes quite irritating as you do not have index on audio book to remember all the characters. Some of the strong points of the book are 1. Shell world 2. Different species involved. 3. A decent plot. Some of the weak points of the book are 1. Main plot goes for a toss. 2. Too many characters with complex names. Let me elaborate on the above strong points 1. Shell world This is really an interesting concept where we have a group of planets whose core basically consists of different layers. Now each layer is a world in itself and is inhabited by different species. Also each layer has its own star and set of mountains, rivers and species. These layers throughout the core of the planet are supported by huge towers through which you can move from one layer to another. Also these planets were built by species who have long ago sublimed , so we do not get any info regarding their purpose. At the core of the shell worlds there are believed to be dirigible behemothaur present, who are worshipped by the species on the shell world to be a world god. We last encountered them in the book Look to windward . 2. Different species involved. Once such shell world is the Surasmen where most of our story takes place, it is inhabited by interesting mix of species. Some of the species on this world are 1. Sarl They are humanoid species who live on the 8th level of Surasmen and they have been involved in a war with another humanoid species known as Deldine for a long time. 2. Oct They are the species who consider the builders of the shell worlds to be their ancestors, they are shown to be technologically more advanced than the Sarl and are the governing species of Sarl . They are also shown to be searching something on the 9th level of the shell world. 3. Nariscene They are governing species of Oct and they keep themselves aloof from any happenings which are going below their levels on Surasmen , they have a theory that species should be allowed to evolve naturally and so do not interfere in any matters. 4. Morthanveld They are governors of the planet Surasmen and are on par with Culture regarding the technological progress. They are water species and live on super structures of Nest world . This is a mix of species which we get in the book, it makes a fascinating read to see how the species interact with each other politically, like the Oct seem to involve themselves in all situations which profit them while the ones like Nariscene and Morthanveld tend to remain aloof. 3. A decent plot. The book starts when the Sarl are in the middle of the war and prince Fabrian sees something which will make him flee to his sister Djan Seriy Anaplian in the culture. Meanwhile his brother Prince Oramen rules as puppet king with regent Tyl Loesp in complete control. The plot mostly consists of Fabrian travelling with his companion servant Chubris Holse to different planets and ships in search of his sister. Let me now elaborate on the weak points of the book 1. Main plot goes for a toss. As you can see from the above strong points I have written much about the different places and species present in the book without giving much into the plot of the book, this by far is the biggest issue of the book because Banks makes his characters travel so much in the book that he has to give info dumps regarding their surroundings or the different culture ships they are travelling on that the main plot takes a back seat throughout the book and keeps popping up in the middle due to which you quickly start losing your interest. 2. Too many characters with complex names. Although in previous books Banks has used lot of complex names but in this book the no of species involved is quite large due to which it becomes very difficult to remember each and every character when doing this book on the audio. Considering the above points it is a weak Culture book, and I give it 3/5 stars. ...more 2/1/15-I really wanted to love this. It began in a very fascinating way, a revenge story that I was really looking forward to. By the end, it reminded me of Star Trek V, and unfortunately, not in a good way. Still, even with the flaws, Matter is an incredible book with incredible ideas. I'll write a full review at some point. \"Wisdom is silence.\" These Shellworlds are absolutely fascinating, especially their connection to the planets of the dead (and Consider Phlebas). Damn, am so happy to be rea 2/1/15-I really wanted to love this. It began in a very fascinating way, a revenge story that I was really looking forward to. By the end, it reminded me of Star Trek V, and unfortunately, not in a good way. Still, even with the flaws, Matter is an incredible book with incredible ideas. I'll write a full review at some point. \"Wisdom is silence.\" These Shellworlds are absolutely fascinating, especially their connection to the planets of the dead (and Consider Phlebas). Damn, am so happy to be reading another Culture Book and am just saddened I only have a few left before it's done. ...more Where sprawling becomes a bad kind of sprawling, like, sprawling in the street after passing out from a night on the razz, only with less sodium lights and more dragon-type creatures floating around your mind, no wait, floating around your mind in a concentric kind of world within a world complete with medieval peasant types, futuristic warrior types and fey castle kingdoms, and flying dragon type things and WAR (always WAR! Yaargh!!) - but sprawling in that needy grasping way that only that som Where sprawling becomes a bad kind of sprawling, like, sprawling in the street after passing out from a night on the razz, only with less sodium lights and more dragon-type creatures floating around your mind, no wait, floating around your mind in a concentric kind of world within a world complete with medieval peasant types, futuristic warrior types and fey castle kingdoms, and flying dragon type things and WAR (always WAR! Yaargh!!) - but sprawling in that needy grasping way that only that some sprawlers supine and almost contrite with their imposition upon you can sprawl, like, suffocating...a hand grabbing your trouser cuff, an old friend you try and shake off because he's not who you knew, the whole affair leaving a bit of a Bad Taste, reluctance to treat with the chap any more, but...damnit he's a mate - can't give up on him because of one little public indiscretion. So: Matter. SPOILERS! So: Matter. Requisite Final Fantasy 7 \"ultimate boss!\" fight at the end, requisite \"everyone dies\" at the end complete with heroic WW2-esque \"I'm going in!\" self-sacrifice elements complete with King Lear-ish fratricidal brothers but minus the dramatic dignity of good old Shakes, plus flying dragon things and chase elements from flying dragon type things. I think as well as dragon things, this also had aliens made from gas, insectoid aliens - maybe next Banks we'll get aliens made from aliens, aliens made from toilet paper (if it still exists in the what-the-f**-year-is-it-anyway? century The Culture is set in - the usual intelligent ships, aliens that hate each other, a smidge of espionage and \"bad girl made good\" too. Fun for all the family, right? No, not quite right. See, I like old Banks. I know we can't have Consider Phlebas again, but lately Banks' has fallen prey to inflation. Not of ego, or wallet or um... spacetime (all of the above may be true) but of plot and idea. Knowing he needs to write for the fans, he chucks everything and the kitchen sink in. It's gone all Stargate SG1, where they started to have, like SG team 18 and SG Atlantis and pyramids flying round space and by the 5th series it was just nuts, and I hated it, so much so that I can't recall anything much about the later series than the big pyramid things in space, and Amanda Tapping being kind of a babe. They made 214 episodes, says Wikipedia. 214! This book reads like an episode about 198, where its like nothing the first series ever was because its so bloated and full of wanky shit, shineys to make you think \"woooo! not seen that before!\". Gone are the simple geodesics, the shortest distance between drama and event. Gone are the slick and screamingly awesome passages that helped Phlebas blow apart British sci-fi in the 80s. Gone is the majestic urgent voice of a writer who deliberately tries to dazzle. Now instead of the slick legerdemain of early Banks we have an older paunchier prose, the patter of it not quite fitting the trick it tries to pull. We have little castle kingdoms, forced dramatic irony of aliens looking down on said castle kingdom world, aliens made from gas and all that, witty spaceships, The Culture looking down on the gas aliens looking down on the world looking down on the peasants and c. (Maybe the gas aliens were big water-beings. I forget. I just recall they needed environment suits or portable ecosystems.) Here Banks grasps, convolutes, invoulutes himself into chains of story that are coiled not so much double helix, (compact, elegant, efficient, composed of elegant building blocks encoding information, building a neat, stable whole) but laid before us well, in a more spaghetti like melange: if you tug hard enough, a strand leads to a strand, but some just terminate, all loose ended, like. Matter is all detail and no substance, it tries the dazzle, tries to pass of substance by showing of simple abundance (of material.) but the misdirection misfires,the patter runs out of steam, we're left knowing the trick and the trickster too well to be taken in. IN FOURTEEN WORDS: Maximalist Banks, good for a few days amusement, but by far not his best. ...more Got it, read it, loved it. To be true Iain M Banks' Culture novels had always already distinguished themselves by being remarkable for having a plot, a good plot, an intelligent good plot, that is not utterly unbelievable or alien (ahem, apart from being set in the far future and in outer space etc). On that score you will not be dissappointed here either. Two, three and more plot-lines seemelessly intertwine, split, multiply and ultimately coalesce once more into a grand finale. Equally the lan Got it, read it, loved it. To be true Iain M Banks' Culture novels had always already distinguished themselves by being remarkable for having a plot, a good plot, an intelligent good plot, that is not utterly unbelievable or alien (ahem, apart from being set in the far future and in outer space etc). On that score you will not be dissappointed here either. Two, three and more plot-lines seemelessly intertwine, split, multiply and ultimately coalesce once more into a grand finale. Equally the language and vocabulary will not leave you wanting: it's a well rounded and beautiful English. Those bits and pieces that are not, and are, for lack of a better term, Culture-space-speak, are explained in a glossary in the back of the book for those who are new to Culture novels and/or fail to catch on to ample intrinsic clues scatterd throught the text. Never fear, this is intelligent SF which can easily pass muster as a piece of literature. So if Sci-Fi normally is not your thing because you dread cheap excuses for questionable air-brush cover-art, don't be shy this book would be an excellent starting point for expanding your horizons. That having been said what can you expect from the story? A human low-tech civilization in the midst of war, treachery and intrigue finds itself embroiled in a past, present and future that far explode its scope. Those familiar with Culture novels may ask what is new at this point. The Culture - current apogee of human development in a highly competitive universe filled with a dazzling array of aliens at various levels of civilization and technological development - has always pursued the goal to interfere in the course of the development of lesser civilizations for what the Culture believes to be 'the good'. A well known fact from other Culture novels. What is new, however, is the ways in which the various charcaters of those intertwining plot-lines mentioned in the forgoing deal with their horizons being exploded (in some cases - to no surprise - literally). And yes, if you wish to play the philosophical perspective card, the relationship between mind and matter is at stake and while being entranced by a ripping good yarn you may suddenly find yourself contemplating the nature of freedom. Although the plot-twists may leave you ambiguous whether it is in our nature to be susceptible to nurture, and to which extent we are bound to the matter we are, the novel leaves you in no doubt as to I.M. Banks' position concerning the relationship of mind and matter. Trust a man of his background to sum things up with an expletive. Which one, and how and why you have to find out yourself. ...more This book is a fractal -- no matter how you zoom in or out, the basic structure remains the same. It starts incredibly zoomed in on the three (maybe four) main characters, then proceeds to zoom out. . . and out. . . and out. . . until the story encompasses issues as large as the destruction of a world and the resurrection of a long-thought-dead alien society. But, (I think purposefully) to emphasize its fractal nature, the climax comes in an instant and then the whole story comes crashing back d This book is a fractal -- no matter how you zoom in or out, the basic structure remains the same. It starts incredibly zoomed in on the three (maybe four) main characters, then proceeds to zoom out. . . and out. . . and out. . . until the story encompasses issues as large as the destruction of a world and the resurrection of a long-thought-dead alien society. But, (I think purposefully) to emphasize its fractal nature, the climax comes in an instant and then the whole story comes crashing back down to the very zoomed-in. I think this novel will work or not for you based on how well you adapt to that sudden drop. It didn't, particularly, for me, as I was left feeling distanced from the people I had cared about since the beginning, but intellectually I have a great deal of admiration for the skill the novel showed. ...more Rosado mp3. Round the lake. Thinking of Mr Banks and his sad news. Love the ship named 'Do Not Try This At Home' #83 TBR Busting 2013 TR Consider Phlebas TR The Player 3* The State of Art 4* Look to Winward 3' Matter 4* The Algebraist As Iain No Em Banks 3* The Wasp Factory 1* The Steep Approach to Garbadale aka The Steep Descent to Garbage 2* Stonemouth This novel is a wild ride. It starts off chiefly explaining the Sarl people who live in a society that reminded me of the wild west, complete with cattle rustling (weird space cattle), saloon fights, and the omnipresent question of who's gonna run the ranch (or be the king). It is one of Banks's \"Culture\" novels and it does quite a lot to explain more about The Culture, for a princess of the royal family of the Sarl was given to The Culture, that conglomerate of \"mongrel-utopians\", to act in the This novel is a wild ride. It starts off chiefly explaining the Sarl people who live in a society that reminded me of the wild west, complete with cattle rustling (weird space cattle), saloon fights, and the omnipresent question of who's gonna run the ranch (or be the king). It is one of Banks's \"Culture\" novels and it does quite a lot to explain more about The Culture, for a princess of the royal family of the Sarl was given to The Culture, that conglomerate of \"mongrel-utopians\", to act in their \"Special Circumstances\" department. Though she begins this novel by returning to her homeworld, her presence does a lot to explain the way The Culture works. Like all the \"Culture\" novels \"Matter\" is not so much about the Culture as it is about one of the worlds on the periphery of the Culture. And what a world Sursamen is! -- an artificial \"Shellworld\" composed of levels each with its own type of atmosphere and environment; the Sarl live on Level 8, one of the 2 \"land\" levels. These Shellworlds were built by a race of beings who are now eons dead. There are thousands of them that compose a circle around the galaxy. Most of them are dead, but about 4 thousand remain active. We get to know Sursamen through the royal family of the Sarl. Ferbin, a prince of the royal family, is chased offworld, but returns for a \"showdown\" with the villains of the story. But the last 100 pages are nothing like what I expected them to be. The story goes from its wild west format into a wild journey full of cataclysmic events and long dead artifacts returning to life that kept me on the edge of my seat through what was a really exciting whirlwind adventure. The characters are asked to question their place, not only among the Sarl, but among this magnificent universe in its totality. This book left me breathless. ...more There is an interview at the back of this book in which Banks says he was thinking of giving up writing SF but he set himself the task of creating a completely new context for a novel; The Algebraist, Banks' best novel for years resulted. With Matter Banks returns to the Culture - and that is a mistake. Every worthwhile idea relating to the Culture has been expounded multiple times already - there has been no need for a new Culture novel since Use of Weapons and the quality of them has been deter There is an interview at the back of this book in which Banks says he was thinking of giving up writing SF but he set himself the task of creating a completely new context for a novel; The Algebraist, Banks' best novel for years resulted. With Matter Banks returns to the Culture - and that is a mistake. Every worthwhile idea relating to the Culture has been expounded multiple times already - there has been no need for a new Culture novel since Use of Weapons and the quality of them has been deteriorating ever since. (It seems likely that Use of Weapons will be the best book Banks writes in any genre, ever.) This means that when we are exposed to yet another rehearsal of the arguments for and against interventionist politics, it is just boring; Banks fans could present both sides of the argument without having to think by now. Some of the characters are also Banks cliches and all of the main characters spend considerable time merely travelling from one place to another before they can meet up for a climax that is too short and unfortunately predictable, at least in general outline. Once again the book is too long for its own story; if ruthlessly pared down to half its length it might move fast enough not to lose the interest of its readers. This affliction is so widespread amongst contemporary authors that one must suspect that the publishers/editors must find it somehow desirable. One aspect of the book, is superior to The Algebraist, at least - there is very little reliance on crude jokes to bulk up the story, which is about all that the middle part of the Algebraist consists of. Is Banks a spent force? It seems the man who shook up hard SF and made it a powerful force again may have been overtaken by newcomers to the genre. ...more I just completed Iain Banks' latest Culture novel 'Matter'. He is something less of a yarn spinner in this one and I was stalled at page 20 for a while, but by the time I got to page 120, I could tell it was going to be a great story. Unlike 'Phlebas' which was the second Banks book I read (after the Algebraist), Matter was a bit more predictable. The intrigue from this book comes from knowing in some detail what Culture SC operatives and their technology are capable of. So the drama builds in th I just completed Iain Banks' latest Culture novel 'Matter'. He is something less of a yarn spinner in this one and I was stalled at page 20 for a while, but by the time I got to page 120, I could tell it was going to be a great story. Unlike 'Phlebas' which was the second Banks book I read (after the Algebraist), Matter was a bit more predictable. The intrigue from this book comes from knowing in some detail what Culture SC operatives and their technology are capable of. So the drama builds in this story by knowing that several species at various levels of sophistication are going to be met with the wrath of god, god being a relative term - achievable by humans in already achieved by one woman exiled from a doomed world. The other interest in this story comes from the seemingly infinite hierarchies of species which are so incredibly alien to human emotions and storytelling. A fascinating device to be sure. Here you have the story of essentially almost modern humans in something of a Napoleonic age who live in a world dominated by the Oct, a species that most resemble nothing more or less than crabs. Not giant man-eating crab-people, but dinner plate sized creatures who smell funny, think and talk sideways. The Oct were described as possessors of the most untranslatable language in the galaxy. Every year they win the prize and nobody can understand their acceptance speech. The Oct are enmeshed in a constant struggle for power with the Aultridians, an even more smelly race of creatures that resemble doormats. Above the Oct are an insectile race, and above them a race of waterborne creatures which I can best say resemble a cross between porcupine fish and sea urchins. If you can imagine how difficult it might be to live in America if your candidate doesn't win in November, imagine what it must be like to be ruled by crabs inferior to ants inferior to fish and that the fish basically own a volume of space containing two million stars. This is the predicament of Ferbin, the playboy prince whose father, the King is assassinated. He must plead his case up this motley chain of command while running for his life. Unbeknownst to him, his exiled sister a secret agent for the Culture, the masters of the galaxy, is working her way down back to her home planet and finding it not difficult to care even in her post-ghetto life. Family still matters. But her lust for revenge is tempered by her new sophistication and the rules of engagement, or is it? Banks shines in his description of the Shellworld, a new invention into his great galaxy. And the appendix adds to the wiki-able knowledge base that attaches to his interstellar inventions. There is great multi-species drama and intrigue in this novel, and yet another reason to read all of Banks. By the way, the title, like 42 is an answer to one of the great philosophical questions of our age. ...more 4.5 stars Even pressing on into the final chapter and closing pages, I was going to originally go with a somewhat nebulous ~4+ because I couldn't decide how I felt about the book overall. There is some truly brilliant pieces of fiction at work here and Banks's concept of the shellworld Sursamen \u2014 where the vast majority of the book is set \u2014 was marvelously executed. However, as the man who introduced me to the Culture series noted ( Kyle Muntz ), the book sort of takes ~300 pages to get rolling; a 4.5 stars Even pressing on into the final chapter and closing pages, I was going to originally go with a somewhat nebulous ~4+ because I couldn't decide how I felt about the book overall. There is some truly brilliant pieces of fiction at work here and Banks's concept of the shellworld Sursamen \u2014 where the vast majority of the book is set \u2014 was marvelously executed. However, as the man who introduced me to the Culture series noted ( Kyle Muntz ), the book sort of takes ~300 pages to get rolling; a normally almost inexcusable circumstance . . . almost. Despite there being only minimal forward moment with the plot (at least compared with the final few chapters), there is still a lot of character development taking place, which I love. Banks spends the time developing the humans (Sarl and Deldeyn) as well as their alien counterparts, the Oct, the Aultridia, the Nariscene, the Morthanveld, and of course, new and highly entertaining drones and Minds from the Culture. In other words, you actually don't mind what would otherwise be plodding through the first 300 pages. Though, I submit, this knowledge might be enough to scare off readers who haven't committed to finishing all 10 books in the Culture series. Also, make no mistake, as other reviewers have noted\u2014shit gets pretty bleak in this book. However, I will not even remotely spoil those parts for you as they have a great deal to do with Banks's wonderful development of his characters. It's bleak because you feel their plight. I mentioned that I was originally going to give the book ~4+ stars, but ended up giving it a solid 4.5, which is largely due to the Epilogue, another point I will not end up spoiling for you by saying even whether I liked it or not or the reasons for deciding on my final verdict. Ultimately, I think it's a book wholly worth the time and effort (and given that it's ~600 pages, both are significant factors). ...more The eighth book in the culture series. If you're reading this, you're familiar with the Culture, and you don't need yet another review telling you how fantastic this particular entry is. All I'll say is that it's no exception, and stands right up there with all the others. Two quotes that really stood out for me from this fantastic book: \u201cBehave honourably and wish for a good death. He\u2019d always dismissed it as self-serving bullshit, frankly; most of the people he\u2019d been told were his betters were The eighth book in the culture series. If you're reading this, you're familiar with the Culture, and you don't need yet another review telling you how fantastic this particular entry is. All I'll say is that it's no exception, and stands right up there with all the others. Two quotes that really stood out for me from this fantastic book: \u201cBehave honourably and wish for a good death. He\u2019d always dismissed it as self-serving bullshit, frankly; most of the people he\u2019d been told were his betters were quite venally dishonourable, and the more they got the more the greedy bastards wanted, while those that weren\u2019t like that were better behaved at least partly because they could afford to be.\" - \u201cWar, famine, disease, genocide. Death, in a million different forms, often painful and protracted for the poor individual wretches involved. What god would so arrange the universe to predispose its creations to experience such suffering, or be the cause of it in others? What master of simulations or arbitrator of a game would set up the initial conditions to the same pitiless effect? God or programmer, the charge would be the same: that of near-infinitely sadistic cruelty; deliberate, premeditated barbarism on an unspeakably horrific scale.\u201d ...more Is it really the first Culture novel for seven years? Where does the time go? While 2004's The Algebraist was full of the verve and invention that we nowadays simply expect by right from Banks' science fiction, somehow the absence of the Culture also left it lacking the ideological thrill \u2013 the politics of utopia, as it were \u2013 that gives a Banks' novel its heart. Hence the cover of my preview copy simply says, 'The Culture is back. Nothing else matters.' A statement I didn't entirely disagree wi Is it really the first Culture novel for seven years? Where does the time go? While 2004's The Algebraist was full of the verve and invention that we nowadays simply expect by right from Banks' science fiction, somehow the absence of the Culture also left it lacking the ideological thrill \u2013 the politics of utopia, as it were \u2013 that gives a Banks' novel its heart. Hence the cover of my preview copy simply says, 'The Culture is back. Nothing else matters.' A statement I didn't entirely disagree with (to the disgust of my wife). But to what, I wondered, does the cryptic title refer? What definition of 'matter'? Only one thing is certain: this is a Banks' book so it could be any or all of them. Matter begins on Sursamen, a Shellworld, a gigantic Russian Doll of a world, built eons ago by an inscrutable and extinct race for an unknown purpose. There are thousands scattered across the galaxy (although there used to be many more), most of which are inhabited by a glorious multitude of different races. Levels eight and nine respectively of Sursamen happen to be the home of the Sarl and the Deldeyn, human-like species both undergoing their equivalent of the industrial revolution, and both at war with each other. At the moment of his greatest triumph, Hausk, king of Sarl, is murdered by his closest advisor and we thenceforth follow his surviving offspring: foppish heir to the throne Ferbin, on the run having borne secret witness to his father's ultimate betrayal; bookish Oramen, heir apparent to the now-vacant throne of Sarl; and finally, absent Djan. Given by her father to the Culture some years ago, she has not merely been given citizenship of the Culture, but has become a member of Special Circumstances (or SC), its shadowy secret service. Meanwhile, Ferbin sets out on a mighty journey to enlist his sister's help in avenging their father, although Djan is already returning to Sursamen for reasons of her own, and both hope to save their na\u00efve younger brother, who is in terrible danger from his father's killers. The Culture can't intervene directly on Sursamen for various diplomatic reasons, so their possessing an SC agent is perhaps fortuitous \u2013 as much as anything is ever fortuitous in the Culture (I'm thinking of the Sleeper Service and its deep deep cover mission in Excession, which is pointedly recalled here). Most of Matter follows characters to whom the Culture and other such advanced civilisations are distant legends, so we're very much down and dirty with the locals - readers hoping to be thrust once more into the Aladdin\u2019s cave of the Culture per se may be disappointed; this isn't another Inversions, but rather somewhere in-between. While there are wonders by the score, interesting characters aplenty and even a few amusing ship names thrown in for old times' sake, Matter feels like something of a marginal Culture novel, serving mainly to give us a better idea of the Culture\u2019s place and standing in the galactic hierarchy. The story (and especially the ending) feels a bit tenuous. All the various threads work well enough on their own, and the set-pieces, as always, are awe-inspiring, but the story doesn't pull together into a satisfying whole: simply having everyone blunder entertainingly about, incidentally visiting some marvellous places, does not a great novel make, I\u2019m afraid. In fact, I think there are two novels wrestling each other here \u2013 with the one featuring the Culture coming off least well. You have to ask, if the Culture wasn\u2019t here would it make a very great difference to matters, and the answer is \u2018only to its fans\u2019 (of which I\u2019m definitely one). There\u2019s also some frankly lazy infodumping \u2013 fascinating info, I grant you, about which I hesitate to complain because Banks' infodumps have in the past changed the way I think about science fiction as a genre - but info is being dumped upon you, and no mistake. So, a slight disappointment then; but a slightly disappointing Culture novel is still a standard that many other writers should aspire to. Matter is a cracking read on its own, just not a great addition to the Culture canon, adding little to our understanding of everyone's favourite post-scarcity wish-fulfillment civilisation. And what 'matter' do I finally think Mr Banks is referring to? I rather suspect it to be a little joke: that even the stupendous Minds of the Culture still depend upon matter as a stratum for their thought processes, so that, ahem, matter matters. ...more 3.5 stars I have so many conflicting emotions about this book! Probably because, at least to me, it felt like two books: one with crazy space antics and another featuring political intrigue on a low-tech world. Usually the contrast between high- and low-tech societies is something I enjoy in books ( The Dreaming Void , A Fire Upon the Deep ) but I am generally not a fan of Iain Banks' more politically driven, almost-fantasy stuff: Inversions is the only Culture book I actively didn't love, for examp 3.5 stars I have so many conflicting emotions about this book! Probably because, at least to me, it felt like two books: one with crazy space antics and another featuring political intrigue on a low-tech world. Usually the contrast between high- and low-tech societies is something I enjoy in books ( The Dreaming Void , A Fire Upon the Deep ) but I am generally not a fan of Iain Banks' more politically driven, almost-fantasy stuff: Inversions is the only Culture book I actively didn't love, for example. I felt like the two elements didn't work harmoniously. Even though they are plot-connected, I didn't feel the mirroring of elements or strong contrast I feel like a low- vs high-tech plot needs. So let's talk about the good. I adore the worldbuilding here! So many cool concepts. Tons and tons of really interesting alien races (though tbh I could have used more info or scenes of the other ones in the Shellworld), nifty tech we haven't seen before, the rumors of ancient alien races, and of course the Shellworld itself--one of my favorite Culture concepts. Just the idea of it was so amazing, and Banks always does such a good job of bringing his ideas to life. I felt like I could picture it all so perfectly. The characters here, like in many Culture novels, are interesting but not particularly unique feeling. We've got the son who doesn't want to be king, the son who does but is too young and in his head, the scheming overlord, the prodigal sister. I feel like characters are never Banks' strength, though, so I expected that coming in and it didn't bother me. Because he always makes up for it with sassy ships & drones! This time we also get a sassy human assistant, because a large chunk takes place on a tech-free world and we need some way to get those sarcastic comments in there. The last 20% of this book is fantastic. I really felt a huge disjoint between the story aspects, though. The elements of the ending section are touched on but not really talked about until they're suddenly in play: then it feels like the whole first half of the book (and everything in the Shellworld) were a huge waste of time because they have almost nothing to do with what's going on. It just feels unbalanced. It could have either been much shorter (we didn't need half of the on-Shellworld POV scenes for the plot) or the same length but with 1) more space and Culture scenes and 2) more foreshadowing or actual plot-building about the endgame elements. So, to sum it up, I enjoyed this (like I do most Culture novels) but it's not one of my favorites from the series. I think my order of preference goes Look to Windward > Excession > Player of Games > Use of Weapons > Matter > State of the Art > Consider Phlebas > Inversions ...more The Culture is an intergalactic mongrel civilization of species who haven't yet sublimed into pure energy and are hanging around for a few more deci-eons, undergoing cosmetic and genital alterations, backing up their consciousness on disk and such: I think I'll become a rosebush for a while. The Minds are running the show in some AI world of their own, but who knows what their motives are. \"Matter\" is much more about the more mundane side of things, the royal family of Sarl, (full names hard to The Culture is an intergalactic mongrel civilization of species who haven't yet sublimed into pure energy and are hanging around for a few more deci-eons, undergoing cosmetic and genital alterations, backing up their consciousness on disk and such: I think I'll become a rosebush for a while. The Minds are running the show in some AI world of their own, but who knows what their motives are. \"Matter\" is much more about the more mundane side of things, the royal family of Sarl, (full names hard to spell) living on one level of a Shellworld with one sister a Culture agent somewhere out in the Interchange. Shellworlds are made up of different levels, with skies of layered Ptolemaic shells with little stars tracking on their spheres. A nice little detail. Different species occupy different levels, well until one species goes aggressive and tries to conquer another. Then there are semi-higher species watching and guiding, somewhat incompetently. On the Shellworld, we have a rather clanky \"medieval times\" revenge plot unfolding down there. To revenge dead old dad, the prince and his servant head for the Culture to go get sis, while carrying on Blackadder-and-Baldric like repartee. And there's that darn alien city emerging from the falls which is going to cause all kinds of trouble. Most of the time the Culture and the advanced species stay out of the mix, except for a certain fascination with \"the game played by matter\" down there among the lesser species. At their level unfortunately questions of human justice and injustice are oh so mundane and not to be interfered with one way or the other. Usually such interference has unseen consequences anyway. Fast forward to a brutal slam-bang showdown in the center of the Shellworld. Somehow it's all about the disconnect between Matter and Spirit. Very Hegelian. I wanted to like this more than I did. I'm experienced enough of an SF reader to see the Uplift novels and other things in here. It's paint by the numbers and the Culture didn't blow me away. We're practically in it already, aren't we? Banks (no relation, I'm a Mick-Kraut not a Scot) is however a good writer who knows how to move a story along. So a good strong threebie. ...more When people used to ask me who my favorite science fiction authors are, my answer was always \"William Gibson and Neal Stephenson.\" I've read everything they've written, and even when the plot becomes convoluted, or the characters are not well-realized, the sheer force of imagination and excitement about the new ideas on each page always leaves me with a big smile on my face. That list is going to have to grow to three now, because Iain Banks has made me more excited as a reader of sci-fi than I' When people used to ask me who my favorite science fiction authors are, my answer was always \"William Gibson and Neal Stephenson.\" I've read everything they've written, and even when the plot becomes convoluted, or the characters are not well-realized, the sheer force of imagination and excitement about the new ideas on each page always leaves me with a big smile on my face. That list is going to have to grow to three now, because Iain Banks has made me more excited as a reader of sci-fi than I've been in a while. Unlike, Gibson and Stephenson, who have each carved out their own niche with new subgenres (Gibson with cyberpunk, Stephenson starting with that and going off into a bunch of different directions, including a unique brand of historical fiction), Banks' Culture series uses the well-worn \"space opera\" with its spaceships and myriad alien races as a jumping-off point (probably best-known in the public consciousness for its adaptation to movies and TV...think Star Wars, Star Trek, and Battlestar Galactica). That's where similarities with other writers ends, though. Banks has created such a vivid, fully-realized, and unique universe to play with here, it can be hard to pull yourself away. Matter, one of his more recent entries in the series, starts with a bitter conflict and political intrigue on a war-torn planet, and gradually zooms out until you realize far greater forces are at work manipulating the events. One of Banks' gifts as a writer is the ability to take a reader from a very narrow focus on a single character one moment, and pull out to show how that character's actions affect a much larger set of events the next...and have each be equally interesting and engaging. Anyway, in case it wasn't clear, I'm in love with this guy, and recommend him to any sci-fi fan...the books in the series all stand alone for the most part...and I'd recommend \"The Player of Games\" as the most accessible in the series for a newbie. ...more Much better than I\u2019d expected, based on the two other Iain Banks\u2019 scifi stories I\u2019d read ( Consider Phlebas and The Algebraist ). Matter is in the \"Culture\" universe, as was Consider Phlebas , but the twenty-one years between the two has greatly increased Banks\u2019 skill. Specifically, in the earlier work his explosive innovation splashed out in undisciplined and often grotesque ways. In this novel, most of that is reined in. He is still a bit to exuberant in showing off, but the effort is no longe Much better than I\u2019d expected, based on the two other Iain Banks\u2019 scifi stories I\u2019d read ( Consider Phlebas and The Algebraist ). Matter is in the \"Culture\" universe, as was Consider Phlebas , but the twenty-one years between the two has greatly increased Banks\u2019 skill. Specifically, in the earlier work his explosive innovation splashed out in undisciplined and often grotesque ways. In this novel, most of that is reined in. He is still a bit to exuberant in showing off, but the effort is no longer quite as distracting as before. His flaws are still there: first, he provides too much useless detail. For example, he spends far too many paragraphs noting the baroque forms of the various species that inhabit his universe, even though most of those are throw-away points that do little besides slow down the narrative. Second, he indulges himself in pseudo-philosophical monologues that should be repackaged more tightly as dialog, if he feels they are so important that they must remain. If Banks were to rectify these two tendencies, he\u2019d be flirting with five-star material. But until then, he\u2019s too garrulous by half. Four stars is generous, but still a pleasant read. \u00ad ...more Iain M. Banks is the lion of contemporary British science-fiction, and this book fully displays his craft, his style and his unbridled imagination. Like most of Banks's science fiction, it involves his utopian Culture of benevolent hyper-intelligent machines, but the story itself is that of a low-technology society being manipulated to its own destruction by advanced civilisations whose aims it finds incomprehensible -- but which may themselves be only the pawns of some ancient and malign intell Iain M. Banks is the lion of contemporary British science-fiction, and this book fully displays his craft, his style and his unbridled imagination. Like most of Banks's science fiction, it involves his utopian Culture of benevolent hyper-intelligent machines, but the story itself is that of a low-technology society being manipulated to its own destruction by advanced civilisations whose aims it finds incomprehensible -- but which may themselves be only the pawns of some ancient and malign intelligence. This is a very good book and I unhesitatingly recommend it. Even so, it isn't one of Banks's finest. It lacks the quality of insight and enquiry that marks the best science fiction. Banks's Excession, for example, delves deeply into the threats that might beset even a vastly advanced civilisation; Look To Windward weaves a fantastic narrative with an intelligent investigation of the value of human endeavour in a Materialist utopia. Matter does introduce a few interesting concepts of its own, but basically it's just a great story. If you like Banks, you'll like this. If you haven't tried Banks yet, then go and read Excession first (and, by the way, it'll blow your mind!). ...more I love Bank's ideas - his pantropic/transhumanist far-future socialist utopian society called the Culture; the AI Minds in ships with crazy names; the baroque alien civillizations and ancient artifacts of fearsome power; the big ideas about contact between cultures of vastly different technology levels. This book seemed to be a lot more setup than necessary - a lot was familiar to anyone who'd read a Culture novel before, so I suppose useful to anyone who hadn't, but certain flights of over-descr I love Bank's ideas - his pantropic/transhumanist far-future socialist utopian society called the Culture; the AI Minds in ships with crazy names; the baroque alien civillizations and ancient artifacts of fearsome power; the big ideas about contact between cultures of vastly different technology levels. This book seemed to be a lot more setup than necessary - a lot was familiar to anyone who'd read a Culture novel before, so I suppose useful to anyone who hadn't, but certain flights of over-description, while useful for world-building, made it hard to track what was actually going on. On top of that, Banks' characters aren't his strong point - they're often flat and too prone to sounding Banksian at a convenient opportunity for exposition. When they all have crazy sci-fi names without even a hint of linguistic similarity, it can be a bit tough to remember who was who when they only appear as a bit player a scant few times in the entire story. There was a cool plot buried in the massive book about contact and machinations between wildly disparate cultures plus one malign alien artifact tossed in way late in the game, it felt like it could have benefited by a sharp editor to tighten it up. But it helped pass the time between Belgium and Philly. ...more This book wasn't really impressing me until about page 300 (which would usually be unforgivable, but I've learned to trust Iain Banks by now), and then it suddenly became brilliant--the beginning was sort of a slow burn, still flawed, but segueing into some of the best setpieces I've ever seen in SF, with a strong conceptual underpinning as well. The narrative sort of blossoms out from a semi-standard story in the beginning into being one of the most interesting Culture novels. Bank's prose was This book wasn't really impressing me until about page 300 (which would usually be unforgivable, but I've learned to trust Iain Banks by now), and then it suddenly became brilliant--the beginning was sort of a slow burn, still flawed, but segueing into some of the best setpieces I've ever seen in SF, with a strong conceptual underpinning as well. The narrative sort of blossoms out from a semi-standard story in the beginning into being one of the most interesting Culture novels. Bank's prose was as strong as ever; even reading these books back to back, I keep forgetting that Banks has less in common stylistically with Alasdair Reynolds than Pynchon. I do think this book was genuinely too long, but Banks makes up for it in the last 300 pages. This is one of the more flawed novels in the series, but also one of the most complex and well-realized. Also, I should mention--the ending is grim, I mean bleaker than the end of Consider Plebias, and probably more than anything else I've read this year as well. ...more First thoughts: I was disappointed by the latest Culture book. It is too long for the story Banks is telling. Said story has interesting points, but doesn't cover much new ground. Banks has created a lot of mysteries about the Culture, and I was hoping that he would dispel some of these and provide some crazy answers. At times, he hints at doing so, such as when he introduces the idea of Culture citizens who have been around since its inception. Now that's a story I really want to read! After the First thoughts: I was disappointed by the latest Culture book. It is too long for the story Banks is telling. Said story has interesting points, but doesn't cover much new ground. Banks has created a lot of mysteries about the Culture, and I was hoping that he would dispel some of these and provide some crazy answers. At times, he hints at doing so, such as when he introduces the idea of Culture citizens who have been around since its inception. Now that's a story I really want to read! After the last Culture book, \"Look To Windward\", I had high expectations for this one - expectations which, unfortunately, it didn't meet. It was entertaining and, at times, funny. It was also nice to revisit the Culture. I consider \"Use of Weapons\" the high point in the Culture books, and \"Excession\" the low; this falls somewhere in between, near \"Player of Games\" and \"Consider Phleabas\". ...more This is part of Iain \"M\" Banks' (the \"M\" means he's writing as a SciFi/Fantasy author)\"Culture\" novels. The nice aspect of this writing is you don't have read the books in sequence. Each one is a view of a galaxy with no money, where material things are willed into matter, where machines control most of the universe. But, of course, human nature is still predictable, and evil is present. This particular novel starts with a plot to take-over a kingdom. His writing, to me, is absolutely electric! This is part of Iain \"M\" Banks' (the \"M\" means he's writing as a SciFi/Fantasy author)\"Culture\" novels. The nice aspect of this writing is you don't have read the books in sequence. Each one is a view of a galaxy with no money, where material things are willed into matter, where machines control most of the universe. But, of course, human nature is still predictable, and evil is present. This particular novel starts with a plot to take-over a kingdom. His writing, to me, is absolutely electric! I've also got his fiction novel (Iain Banks) \"The Crow Road\" queued as my next book. ...more Dire de ce roman qu'il est foisonnant est un euph\u00e9misme. Essayons toutefois de r\u00e9sumer. On retrouve dans ce roman La Culture, et ses personnages typiques : drones (aussi intelligents qu'un humain \"moyen\" de la Culture), mentaux de vaisseaux spatiaux et, \u00e9videment, humains de la Culture (ce qui signifie des gens tr\u00e8s nettement am\u00e9lior\u00e9s avec leurs lacis neuraux, leurs glandes pilot\u00e9es consciement, et autres \u00e9quipements plus proches de James Bond que d'autre chose). Mais, contrairement, aux pr\u00e9c\u00e9den Dire de ce roman qu'il est foisonnant est un euph\u00e9misme. Essayons toutefois de r\u00e9sumer. On retrouve dans ce roman La Culture, et ses personnages typiques : drones (aussi intelligents qu'un humain \"moyen\" de la Culture), mentaux de vaisseaux spatiaux et, \u00e9videment, humains de la Culture (ce qui signifie des gens tr\u00e8s nettement am\u00e9lior\u00e9s avec leurs lacis neuraux, leurs glandes pilot\u00e9es consciement, et autres \u00e9quipements plus proches de James Bond que d'autre chose). Mais, contrairement, aux pr\u00e9c\u00e9dents romans de la Culture, celle-ci n'est plus cette fois la civilisation \"dominante\" (je mets le terme entre guillements par respect pour la politique non h\u00e9g\u00e9moniste de la Culture : celle-ci tente de respecter les civilisations moins d\u00e9velopp\u00e9es). On d\u00e9couvre donc avec stupeur que la Galaxie est peupl\u00e9e d'innombrables esp\u00e8ces intelligentes, dont au moins une, les Morthanveldes, est aussi avanc\u00e9e technologiquement, culturellement et philosophiquement que la Culture. Ces Morthanveldes, comme la Culture, ont pris sous leur aile des esp\u00e8ces \"clientes\" au sens moyen-\u00e2geux, qui a leur tour ont leurs propres clients. On trouve donc des esp\u00e8ces de f\u00e9odalit\u00e9s d'esp\u00e8ces clients, un peu comme dans les bouquins de David Brin (le cycle d'El\u00e9vation) mais d'une mani\u00e8re beaucoup, beaucoup plus profonde (les esp\u00e8ces sont nettement plus intelligentes que chez Brin, et quelques lignes de Banks suffisent parfois \u00e0 nous apporter des d\u00e9tails compl\u00e8tement dingues sur ces extra-terrestres). Parmi ces clients, on trouve en particulier les narisc\u00e8nes qui ont \u00e0 leur tour comme clients les octes. Ces octes se pr\u00e9tendent h\u00e9ritiers d'une esp\u00e8ce disparue qui a construit \u00e0 travers toute la galaxie des mondes gigognes. Ce roman va prendre comme d\u00e9cor principal l'un d'entre eux, Sursamen. Un monde gigogne, comme son nom l'indique, est une esp\u00e8ce de plan\u00e8te \u00e0 \u00e9tages, chaque \u00e9tage disposant d'un faux syst\u00e8me stellaire, d'une athmosph\u00e8re sp\u00e9cifique et m\u00eame d'une couche de vide entre le haut de cette athmosph\u00e8re et le plafond. Ce monde (qui m'a rappel\u00e9 certaines discussions entendues jadis sur les terres creuses, ch\u00e8res \u00e0 Joseph Altairac ), comprend une dizaine de niveaux, dont deux au moins sont peupl\u00e9s d'humains : le huiti\u00e8me, et le neuvi\u00e8me. or ces humains sont affili\u00e9s \u00e0 deux sph\u00e8res d'influence diff\u00e9rentes, d'apr\u00e8s ce que j'en ai compris : les octes d'un c\u00f4t\u00e9 et ... une autre esp\u00e8ce pour le camp d'en face. Forc\u00e9ment, c'est la guerre. Une guerre d'autant plus violente qu'elle sert de spectacle \u00e0 bon nombre de soci\u00e9t\u00e9s plus \u00e9volu\u00e9es, qui trouvent la guerre r\u00e9pugnante chez elles mais ne d\u00e9daignent pas un petit massacre de primitifs (suivez mon regard ...). Nous allons donc suivre, lors de cette guerre, le destin de deux princes de la famille r\u00e9gnante et de leur soeujr princesse \"offerte\" \u00e0 la Culture en gage d'amiti\u00e9. En lisant ces premiers paragraphes, vous vous dites que je vous ai r\u00e9v\u00e9l\u00e9 des pans entiers de l'intrigue ? Vous vous trompez on ne peut plus lourdement. Rien de ce que j'ai \u00e9crit ci-dessus n'a d'incidence sur l'intrigue. il s'agit en fait simplement de vous offrir une vue d'ensemble sur cette histoire, qui d\u00e9marre en fait dans le sens contraire : Iain M Banks nous parle d'abord des princes, puis de la nature de Sursamen, puis encore apr\u00e8s de ces histoires d'esp\u00e8ces clientes avant de nous faire comprendre que la Culture peut y \u00eatre m\u00eal\u00e9e ... Vertigineux ... dans les deux sens, en fait. Et ca n'est vraiment pas tout. Chacun des personnages va \u00e9voluer dans sa trame narrative avant de rejoindre sa fratrie pour un final aux dimensions astronomiques. Et chacune de ces trames narratives, bien qu'ind\u00e9pendante, va nous \u00e9clairer sur toute la famille, son histoire, ses valeurs. Un premier prince va par exemple partir en voyage au-dela de Sursamen (qu'il n'avait jamais quitt\u00e9) \u00e0 la recherche d'une aide qui arrivera assez providentiellement au fin fond d'un habitat morthanvelde (une id\u00e9e tr\u00e8s jolie, m\u00eame si encore plus irr\u00e9aliste que les orbitales de la Culture). Le second va peu \u00e0 peu d\u00e9couvrir qu'il baigne dans des complots et tenter de s'en sortir tout en d\u00e9couvrant des artefacts pr\u00e9-humains (ce qui, avouons-le, a toujours \u00e9t\u00e9 une activit\u00e9 risqu\u00e9e). La derni\u00e8re va devoir choisir entre la Culture et Sursamen, ce qu'elle fera avec un style digne de la Culture et une d\u00e9termination de Macho Woman With Guns ... Est-ce que vous commencez \u00e0 voir o\u00f9 ce roman veut en venir ? Non ? Pourtant, \u00e7a devrait \u00eatre assez \u00e9vident maintenant, non ? Bon. Je vais vous donnez mon id\u00e9e .. Avec ce tome, Iain M. Banks s'est \u00e0 mon sens demand\u00e9 si il avait en lui la capacit\u00e9 \u00e0 faire le roman de space-opera total. C'est-\u00e0-dire celui marriant le plus de th\u00e8mes SF avec la plus grande virtuosit\u00e9. D'habitude, \u00e7a donne un genre de pur\u00e9e presque indigeste (comme ce que fait Alastair Reynolds par exemple) parce que trop \u00e9pais, trop rempli d'intrigues apparement dissonantes reli\u00e9es par des liens apparement trop faibles. Ou alors \u00e7a donne les romans de China Mi\u00e9ville , ind\u00e9niablement meilleurs, mais malgr\u00e9 tout aux limites de ce que mon esprit peut dig\u00e9rer. L\u00e0, c'est ... diff\u00e9rent. Si Iain M. Banks arrive \u00e0 marrier ces diff\u00e9rentes intrigues avec plus de facilit\u00e9 que Reynolds, et si l'objectif global est plus lisible que chez Mi\u00e9ville, \u00e7a ne fait qu'une chose : r\u00e9v\u00e9ler que la plupart des intrigues, d\u00e9cors, mobiles qu'il a tir\u00e9 du fin fond des armoires de la SF d'antan ne sont pas vraiment du meilleur accabit. Cela dit, \u00e7a reste extr\u00eamement d\u00e9paysant et chacune des pages de ce livre r\u00e9veille mon imaginaire, ce qui est d\u00e9ja plus que bien des auteurs ne peuvent en promettre. Malheureusement, \u00e7a ne suffit pas \u00e0 rendre ce roman aussi bon que d'autres de la Culture. Dommage, en quelque sorte. Toutefois, deux choses viennent sauver cette publication : d'abord la parution en fran\u00e7ais des quelques notes sur la Culture (la version originale peut par exemple se trouver l\u00e0 : http://www.vavatch.co.uk/books/banks/... ), qui expliquent d'une fa\u00e7on incroyablement claire les tenants et aboutissants de cette civilisation pan-galactique, ce qui est une esp\u00e8ce de m\u00e9ta-lecture que j'ai trouv\u00e9 remonter tr\u00e8s largement le niveau du roman, et une bibliographie des oeuvres de Iain M. Banks, le genre de choses que j'ai de plus en plus de mal \u00e0 trouver utile dans des livres quand noosfere, Goodreads et autres fournissent des bibliographies toujours plus \u00e0 jour ... Bon, je fais la fine bouche avec ce roman, mais \u00e7a reste la Culture, qui est \u00e0 peu pr\u00e8s ce qui se fait de mieux en space-op intelligent, donc lisez-le quand m\u00eame, hein. ...more This is my first experience with Ian Banks' famed \"Culture\" setting, whose books don't function the way a normal book series does, but rather, as simply a shared setting that many of his books take place in. Order is not important, as I understand it, as the universe he creates is so vast that a huge myriad of diverse stories can be told within it, without a need for the linear development of a series. Indeed, Banks' world-building skill is definitely the draw for this novel. Within the first thi This is my first experience with Ian Banks' famed \"Culture\" setting, whose books don't function the way a normal book series does, but rather, as simply a shared setting that many of his books take place in. Order is not important, as I understand it, as the universe he creates is so vast that a huge myriad of diverse stories can be told within it, without a need for the linear development of a series. Indeed, Banks' world-building skill is definitely the draw for this novel. Within the first thirty pages or so, you're introduced to a few dozen races, plunged headlong into a fascinating galactic civilization that spans millions of years, and thrown face-first into some incredible ideas like that of \"The Culture.\" The basic set up is incredibly intriguing: Certain races are so old that are not seen anymore, but their handiwork remains, to be used by those who find it. Other races are the \"higher\" races, that basically control the bulk of the galaxy. They are aware of the history of everything, and interact on a high level. Then there are other, lower races, who are used as pawns by the higher races, and are only dimly aware (sometimes only the leaders are aware) of the higher races, and then there are races even lower down the pole who have no knowledge of galactic civilization whatsoever. This allows for layers upon layers of political intrigue that draws you in and quickly wraps you up in its web of backstabbing diplomacy. It also allows for an incredible mix of civilization types and technology levels. I especially liked how one of the \"middle\" races this book focuses on seemed to have a feudal, medieval style structure, making use of medieval armor, but there were also guns, and flying mounts, and they would occasionally interact with the higher technology of the advanced races, who were in turn using technology of ancient races that they themselves barely understood. It's a fascinating world with so many levels of intrigue that you can't help but be pulled in. The world becomes even more fascinating when seeing the way the higher races interact with each other. Central to these races is a group called \"The Culture,\" which functions sort of as a race, but is actually a conglomeration of many races. It's like a twisted version of Star Trek's Federation. Most of the races take great care to not interfere with the lower races in ways that harm their development, but The Culture has a group within it known as \"Special Circumstances\" who see it as their job to interfere in other worlds development. By killing certain key groups, breaking up wars before they happen, or allowing certain wars to happen and directing them in a certain way, Special Circumstances guides the development of lower races using clandestine methods and insane levels of high technology. Banks makes a habit of taking sci-fi tropes (especially Star Trek ones) and turning them on their head in interesting ways. Added to this setting are interesting ideas such as sentient ships, and the great concept of the \"Shellworlds,\" which are planets that were literally constructed by an ancient race for an unknown purpose. The planets are hollow, consisting of many layers, each layer the home to a different species of varying technology levels. I also enjoyed how well Banks thought through the physical interactions between races. Ships often have to choose an atmosphere that is conducive to a majority of races, but make allowances for races that breathe different types of air, or are used to a different level of gravity, etc. Most of these differences are very well thought out, and the idea that completely different forms of life have to create shared spaces where they can all coexist and interact becomes very believable. The only real stretch was translation technology (a Trek-like Universal Translator is used) but it is far from perfect, so Banks plays with the language. I like how consistent his mis-translations were, members of certain races consistently make the same grammar and syntax errors, giving each race a certain flavor, even when they speak the common language. But as fascinating as the world is, setting always takes a backseat to story and character. Luckily Banks is skilled here as well. His characters are well fleshed out, interesting, differentiated from each other quite well, and don't seem to ever be ciphers that are there to merely fill plot points. The story is intriguing as well, centering around the political struggles of a middle race living on a Shellworld, whose royal family is torn apart by betrayal and war. Matters become more complicated when a former member of the royal family returns -- a young woman who was given to The Culture at a young age as the result of a political bargain, and who has grown up to become a member of Special Circumstances. In the middle of all this is the discovery of mysterious ancient ruins within the Shellworld. The story is great -- until the end. I was literally reading up until the last page, fascinated, becoming more and more excited as the action ramped up -- and then I turned the page and realized the book was over. I have never experienced so abrupt an ending. I actually thought I might have gotten a misprinted book, but no, it's just that abrupt. Over 400 pages of deep political intrigue and character development have absolutely zero payoff, as none of it is resolved and none of it even matters at all in the end. I suppose Banks might be trying to make some existential point there, which is kindof interesting and all, but now I have all of this complicated, fascinating plot floating around in my head with no payoff whatsoever. I felt completely cheated by the ending. What started off as one of the greatest science fiction novels I have ever read became just another lame one-off that happened to have a great setting. I'll definitely be checking out some of Banks' other Culture novels, as I am fascinated by the setting, and I'd love to live in this world a little more. I'm also interested to see if the plot resolution issues are unique to this book, or if it's a theme of his. Either way, this book is worth checking out if you're really into Sci-fi and want to check out a cool setting. Just know going in that the ending is lame, and enjoy it for what it is. ...more I love reading about the Culture. Luckily I still have two books ahead of me. This one had some purely medieval bits in it in the beginning, which I find I don't enjoy as much as the high tech stuff (not when I'm reading SciFi anyway -- Inversions was my least favorite so far because of this; as opposed to The Player of Games and Excession , which I loved). But it serves as another edge case scenario that puts the Culture in context, shedding some additional light on the different stages of civil I love reading about the Culture. Luckily I still have two books ahead of me. This one had some purely medieval bits in it in the beginning, which I find I don't enjoy as much as the high tech stuff (not when I'm reading SciFi anyway -- Inversions was my least favorite so far because of this; as opposed to The Player of Games and Excession , which I loved). But it serves as another edge case scenario that puts the Culture in context, shedding some additional light on the different stages of civilizations and how they can be intertwined. ...more Matter is now my favourite of Iain M Banks's Culture novels. I liked Consider Phlebas, I loved Use of Weapons and The Hydrogen Sonata, but Matter has a little something that the other entries in the series don't appear to have. What Banks did here was to create worlds, not one world, not one system, not one approach to telling a sci-fi tale, but a whole series of worlds that nest on top of each other and define the process through which an entire galaxy of his own devising is governed. This tale Matter is now my favourite of Iain M Banks's Culture novels. I liked Consider Phlebas, I loved Use of Weapons and The Hydrogen Sonata, but Matter has a little something that the other entries in the series don't appear to have. What Banks did here was to create worlds, not one world, not one system, not one approach to telling a sci-fi tale, but a whole series of worlds that nest on top of each other and define the process through which an entire galaxy of his own devising is governed. This tale starts at one of the lowest levels of the 'tech face' as he puts it, on a shell world, an intricate, multi-tiered artificial planet constructed across vast tracts of space and dimensions outside of those we can see, feel and touch. We join Banks's tale on a level of this planet, in a Macbeth like moment of regicide. The old king is killed by a loyal advisor who effectively takes the throne and wages a war of obliteration against an enemy of comparable, nineteenth century level technology across two levels of their artificial world. The new king is supported by his civilisation's mentors, a species on a more advanced galactic scale whose role it is to keep his civilisation on the path to effective development. It is here that a sort of steampunk adventure blossoms in to something incredible on a galactic scale that feels like it lives and breathes. Banks uses Matter to explore his own ideas of a socialist Utopia. The Culture, at the top of this 'tech face' become embroiled in a twisting, turning and multi-layered plot, using their 'Special Circumstances' division to attempt to understand what's really going on. We see, set out for us across these layers of civilizational complexity, a sort of Marxist manifesto that details the stages of advancement that a people must go through in order to reach the socialist ideal. The nineteenth century imperialists are looked after by a society of unfortunately mis-led religious zealots, who in turn are mentored by a race of more enlightened beings. The interesting thing about this is the way that lies and politics play their part in the deception within one culture and how understandings of the same thing can vary between peoples to such an extent that it creates strife, struggle and war. Banks asks some real existential questions here, too. He tackles the nature of royalty and of power, of the ability of man to organise and govern himself versus his being parented and dictated to, he looks at what it means to die, at the possibility of technology ending mortality and the nature of the fundamental particles of the universe itself being a mere computer code, instructions programmed in to atoms to tell them how to behave whilst all the time not really meaning anything. Matter works on so many levels and there is so much to take from it that it becomes really very difficult to review. I love the Culture books, though it saddens me to read them and realise that there will never be another one. This one was excellent and I'm queuing up Look to Windward or Surface Detail next. All of the above is immensely positive, I'm sure you can see. All of that said, I still haven't given this a five. I'll try to explain why. Banks has a habit of writing huge chunks of plot and touching upon some complex element of his world whilst developing his story. He isn't, however, terribly good at drip-feeding details or explanations, or weaving them in to his narrative, so he has a tendency, every so often, to pepper his works with large chunks of exposition and description that read like excepts from the encyclopaedia of The Culture. I love that in moderation, and I love the detail and richness that it provides, it really does draw you in, but at the same time, he does have a habit of overdoing it, the exposition becomes too long (not bloated, as it's all interesting, but perhaps misplaced), he gets himself side-tracked from his plot and it distracts me, as a reader from the events of the novel. On a couple of occasions I had to track back to try to remember what was going on. I both love it and I hate it at the same time, and it means that I've given this a four, not a five. I would most definitely recommend this to anyone interested in sci-fi space opera. Banks is (or, rather sadly, was) the master. ...more<---C>Iain M. Banks</---C>", "Title": "Matter"},
