{"Comments": "This is the sequel to Trickster's Choice, beginning six months or so after the events in that novel. Alianne Cooper, daughter of Alanna the Lioness and George (<---B>Tortallan spymaster</---B>) has won her wager with the god Kyprioth and kept Sarai and Dove (the two elder daughters of the Balitangs) alive, but she has elected to stay in the Copper Isles and see the half-blood Queen crowned. We begin the novel with the Balitang family arriving back in the city of Rajmuat, plunging themselves into political int This is the sequel to Trickster's Choice, beginning six months or so after the events in that novel. Alianne Cooper, daughter of Alanna the Lioness and George (Tortallan spymaster) has won her wager with the god Kyprioth and kept Sarai and Dove (the two elder daughters of the Balitangs) alive, but she has elected to stay in the Copper Isles and see the half-blood Queen crowned. We begin the novel with the Balitang family arriving back in the city of Rajmuat, plunging themselves into political intrigue and gaining the attention of the Rittevon royal family, who suspect the Balitangs of having intentions towards the throne. While this is occurring, Aly and the other raka conspirators create civil unrest in the city in order to push the populace into rebellion against the ruling monarchs. Aly spends a great deal of time desk-bound,<---M> reading reports</---M>, or visiting with the other conspirators - and this is where I feel the novel really lacked sparkle. The book reads like an account of someone doing a job - recruiting, reading reports, attending meetings.<---F> It just isn't all that exciting</---F>. <---A>Tamora Pierce</---A> confesses in her acknowledgements that she has delighted in following J K Rowling's lead in writing larger books for children. This is all very well, but I think Pierce writes better in a shorter format. Her original quartets about Tortall were strong, snappy and fast-paced. The larger books suffer from bloating and, here, too many tedious details about the reports Aly reads and visits to the palace were included. Two of the early chapters in the novel concern Sarai and Dove visiting the palace, and I found it extremely hard to push through those - I've never had such trouble with Pierce's books before. I also found that Sarai became a pretty dislikeable character - spoilt, headstrong, and only thinking of herself. I was thankful when we reached the fate Pierce gave to her, and Dove came to the forefront. While speaking about the characters, one of my favourites from Trickster's Choice - Nawat Crow - was absent for much of this novel, and his loss removed a lot of the gentle humour that delighted me so in the first book. Another complaint I have is the \"MacGuffin\" of the darking characters. Sure, they're pretty cute - although they do have a tendency to come across in a childish manner with their lack of adult speech - but they do make Aly's job enormously easy when she is spying on the palace. It is a very lazy plot device and leads Aly to suffer no real peril or cause her to have to really think through obtaining information. Since we're on the subject of peril, none of these characters seem in any real danger. Yes, a few of them die but this almost seems as though Pierce is going through a checklist and ticking off \"necessary death of beloved character to generate scenes of mourning\". I never felt that any of the main characters were in any danger of not surviving. I did enjoy some parts of the book - the kudarung (winged horses of all sizes and colours) were a nice addition; Nawat's return was very welcome; and the epilogue did a neat job of showing a few nice details of Aly's life some months after the end of the revolution - but overall I was disappointed. This seemed Pierce-by-the-numbers, and it came across that she didn't have much fun writing the story. In her Notes at the end, Tamora Pierce encourages those interested to seek out historical sources of actual revolution and conquest - it is a shame that, in this case, those sources would be more exciting. ...more The first half of the book is considerably slower than book one and seemed much more political, but I loved the inclusion of the Darkings (FUN!) and once things finally picked up, they didn't stop until the end. I have to say the entire story arc of this duology is one of my favorites of the Tortallverse -- seriously, a realm where power is passed down through the women? HECK YES. Gimme that all day long. Dove is probably in my top 5 favorite characters to ever come out of the Tortall world; I w The first half of the book is considerably slower than book one and seemed much more political, but I loved the inclusion of the Darkings (FUN!) and once things finally picked up, they didn't stop until the end. I have to say the entire story arc of this duology is one of my favorites of the Tortallverse -- seriously, a realm where power is passed down through the women? HECK YES. Gimme that all day long. Dove is probably in my top 5 favorite characters to ever come out of the Tortall world; I would LOVE a book about her after the events of the Trickster books, or even a prequel describing how she and Sarai grew up. Everything about this world is so intricate and fascinating to me. ...more Well, that was disappointing. I had hoped that the story would evolve from the stage that Pierce had set up in the first book, that the rather non-existant stakes that Aly had faced would become something more substantial once the Balitangs returned to Rajmuat. Somehow things managed to come even easier to Aly than before and while I admired the old-school spy games of the first book they now seem to require little effort, relying on magic and gods' whims to do all the work. All the villains are Well, that was disappointing. I had hoped that the story would evolve from the stage that Pierce had set up in the first book, that the rather non-existant stakes that Aly had faced would become something more substantial once the Balitangs returned to Rajmuat. Somehow things managed to come even easier to Aly than before and while I admired the old-school spy games of the first book they now seem to require little effort, relying on magic and gods' whims to do all the work. All the villains are cartoon-ish and fumbling. Aly is once again smarter than everyone and everything comes easily. When things don't go according to her plans it usually somehow saves her from a difficult decision that would otherwise have given the story some dimension and the character some grit. (view spoiler) [The head of the King's guard easily figures Aly out as spy, except of course he conveniently isn't interested in politics and doesn't care as long as she doesn't go near Dunevon, passing up the opportunity to give her a worthy adversary. Sarai just happens to run off with a Carthak to clear the way for her more suitable sister to head the revolution instead of Aly dealing with the fact that the \"twice royal\" first born she is trying to put on the throne may not be substantial enough to be queen. Elsran and Dunevon die in the mage storm at the fault of the villains when Aly was putting off deciding how to handle the children who were in her way without killing them, something that was actually presenting a dilemma. And Imajane commits suicide as opposed to requiring any sort of confrontation with her. (hide spoiler) ] Any time Aly's spy-work would fall short despite her best efforts there is some sort of magical creature, power or deus ex machina (often the deus part is literal) that allows her to see and hear all things. I loved the magic of Tortall in the Lioness books, but here it is overused and Aly hardly has to break a sweat when overthrowing a small country. Other characters thank the god for bringing Aly to them in every other chapter, to the point where I really could have stood to see her taken down a peg...or 10. The only thing that doesn't seem to come easily to Aly is perhaps her romantic pursuits. Nawat changed his disposition since the last book but since it all happened off page it comes across as forced. He is absent for most of the book, and while I really like when character's romantic pursuits are not at the forefront of the story, I felt a little robbed of seeing his character growth that I had so looked forward to. He reappears as a less enjoyable, less original character and we don't even get to find out how he got to that place firsthand. His crow friends also appear less in the story, replaced by jar-jar binks-esque little glob creatures I seriously could have done without. We were told Aly grew as a character, the same way we're told she was a bit frivolous before the pirate raid, though there is a lot of telling and less showing. Without Aly's wager with the Trickster the narrative arc just lost it's compass. (view spoiler) [The ending was very unsatisfying. They just gloss over the ramifications of Aly staying in Rajmuat as Dove's Spymaster. Everything that has happened so far has been in the interest of Tortall and there has been no conflict but Pierce doesn't even have Aly consider what will happen the day Dove makes a decision that may be best for the Copper Isles but bad for Tortall. Where do her loyalties lie then? What happens when she has to play spy vs spy with her own father due to politics? Instead it's written off as a joke in the epilogue \"hey dad, get your spies out of the copper isles. Heheh, even though I know you will just get new ones *wink*\" with Aly pregnant and married. It just felt dumbed down compared to the Lioness books. (hide spoiler) ] ...more I have to say I did not like this one as well as the first. My reasons for thus are as follow: 1. the plot wasn't as structured as the first. 2. The villains are so incompetent Aly glides through the plot easily. 3. Things that 'go wrong' are actually helpful for the heroes. 4. Aly's relationship with Nawat feels off. Still a book worth reading but not as good as the first. First my beef with the plot. The story begins with Aly and the Balitangs returning to the capital from their place in the c I have to say I did not like this one as well as the first. My reasons for thus are as follow: 1. the plot wasn't as structured as the first. 2. The villains are so incompetent Aly glides through the plot easily. 3. Things that 'go wrong' are actually helpful for the heroes. 4. Aly's relationship with Nawat feels off. Still a book worth reading but not as good as the first. First my beef with the plot. The story begins with Aly and the Balitangs returning to the capital from their place in the country. The ultimate goal being to overturn the Rittevons and install Sarah as the new monarch, who would then end the slavery of the raka and make the Copper Islands a nice place to live for everyone. After that, though, it kind of muddles along without any kind of climbing action. Aly does her spy thing, Sarah does her social butterfly thing, the Rittevons show off how oppressive they are, and suddenly there's this big battle where the standing government more or less implodes. The first book had this steady progression toward the end of summer where \"Aly would win or lose her wage\" with the god Kyprioth but this book lacks any sense of progression. Second is the incompetent villains. The first villain, the Rittevon king, dies of old age. His son from gluttony. Neither does anything. The king's daughter is just cold and ruthless and almost a single existence with her husband. They rarely act apart so its hard to see them as two characters. Their spymaster (Aly's counterpart) is old and arrogant and, in a word, decayed. Aly mentally lists all the things he's doing wrong, while he sloppily interogates her, and at the end decides he won't be a threat. While this could have been a bluff to get her overconfident, he really isn't a threat and is later executed by the Rittevons for being so useless. His replacement is worse and never gets their own scene. The ONE person smart enough to figure out that Aly is a spy (possibly a spymaster) for the Raka rebels, and could therefore do a lot of damage to their network, is an anti-villain who really cares for nothing but the harmless puppet king controlled by his older and eviler relatives. Third is the lack of resistance. In addition to the harmless villains Aly doesn't have any other problems except her relationship with Nawat. There are two occasions where she is outwitted or out manuvered but both of them help her cause. Not a HUGE problem as Aly points out how the first one is better than what they had planned and that the second one is unfortunately necessary but still, the fact that these are the only problems with her revolt weaken the drama and the sense of victory at the end. Four is Aly's relationship with Nawat. At the end of book 1 she isn't interested in Nawat's offer of a relationship. At the start of book 2 she's accepted and somehow the tables are turned: she's the one that likes their relationship and Nawat's the one that's pulling away. It's because he wants a serious relationship instead of a casual one but its still weird. It could be seen as a sign of Aly's character development as she didn't want to get too involved with anything (a problem that started off the first book) but seeing her suddenly love sick is too weird. Bottom line is: if you liked the first book than you should give this one a try. ...more Tamora Pierce was part of my literary diet when I was growing up. The combination of Western fantasy with Western science fiction means that even now I picture the fantasy city with wide boulevards, low-gabled houses, and amber sunlight dappling the warm streets. Malheureusement, growing up one comes to perceive the limitations of such a treatment of the genre. Trickster\u2019s Queen , then, is a painful reread because I approach it this time with a new clarity of vision. It is a story, essentially, abo Tamora Pierce was part of my literary diet when I was growing up. The combination of Western fantasy with Western science fiction means that even now I picture the fantasy city with wide boulevards, low-gabled houses, and amber sunlight dappling the warm streets. Malheureusement, growing up one comes to perceive the limitations of such a treatment of the genre. Trickster\u2019s Queen , then, is a painful reread because I approach it this time with a new clarity of vision. It is a story, essentially, about colonialism. I mentioned to a friend how the Daughter of the Lioness stories distinctly map onto the USAmerican presence in the Philippines. Pierce\u2019s Tortall is a place where dogs are trained in Malay, after all \u2013 if Pierce can come up with faux-foreign vocabulary for all the other regions of her world, I find it shameless to simply grab Malay wholesale. But, to return to this book: in Trickster\u2019s Queen , the white woman convinces the indigenous peoples to support a mestizo regime because she and only she knows what will save them. She is kingmaker, power-broker, saviour all in one. In the Trickster\u2019s Queen universe, this is unquestionably a righteous happening; Aly is vindicated by the appearance of demigods who hail her for her political and military intervention in the Copper Isles. I find it remarkable how the parallel of the novel\u2019s plot with historical and contemporary USAmerican influences in Southeast Asia could fail to escape readers. The book\u2019s and author\u2019s politics \u2013 Pierce has written, for example, short stories whose plot boils down to \u2018save the niqabis from themselves\u2019 \u2013 are distasteful enough that, if I ever have a nostalgic craving for the Summersea quartets, it\u2019ll be heigh ho, heigh ho to the library instead. ...more In <+++>Trickster's Queen</+++> , Aly's role has slowly turned into Spy Master. Yes, she's\u2026 what, 18 at this point? And she's working with raka people who have been planing this for generations. But, she has the talent and the skills to be an amazing spy master, and the raka aren't going to look a gift horse in the mouth. Unfortunately for us as a reader, this means Aly spend a lot of time reading reports and attending meetings. But Pierce doesn't make this dull or boring. While Aly might not be directly in In <+++>Trickster's Queen</+++> , Aly's role has slowly turned into Spy Master. Yes, she's\u2026 what, 18 at this point? And she's working with raka people who have been planing this for generations. But, she has the talent and the skills to be an amazing spy master, and the raka aren't going to look a gift horse in the mouth. Unfortunately for us as a reader, this means Aly spend a lot of time reading reports and attending meetings. But Pierce doesn't make this dull or boring. While Aly might not be directly involved in all the events shaping the impending revolution, she is obviously pulling the strings. What I love most about this is when characters who don't know Aly are introduced to her as a spy master, they all guffaw. But Aly proves herself every time. It's lovely. As I said, this wasn't as strong a book as the first. I love how everything resolved and how not everything went Aly's way. Yet\u2026 The Darkings. I adore how they are characterized. They are small and adventuresome and just looking for \"Fun!\". I listened to the audiobook, and they were depicted with adorable tiny, squeeky voices. It was perfect. And yet it was such an easy way for Aly to get everything she needed. It felt a bit like cheating at spying, honestly. I would have enjoyed them more if they had been fed lies that trapped Aly, or if more of them had been caught. Also-- our Royal Baddies were incompetent. They couldn't get their stuff together no matter what. It was weird. The first Rittevon king just dies of old age. Okay, I can forgive that. The next Rittevon king dies from gluttony, which he more or less does to himself in a strange suicide because he doesn't want to be King. ...Weird. So, we get to the newest Rittevon king, a five-year-old boy. Obviously, his mother and father become Regents and they are completely incompetent. Which blows my mind. Rubinyan has schemed and plotted his whole life trying to get to this point. Yet, suddenly with the power of the throne around him, everything falls apart. And Imajane seems to have inherited the kingly line of lunacy. So, one regent is going crazy and doing all sorts of crazy things to make the kingdom fear and distrust her, while Rubinyan is just trying to keep her in line. What? It just makes everything so much easier for Aly and the conspirators. That said, I didn't dislike this book. I was enraptured with the story Pierce wove. Now that they are so close to putting the Twice Royal Queen on the throne, we really get to know the raka conspirators much better. They have grown to trust Aly. We watch they relationships develop and deepen within their ranks, as well as with the other members of the Balitang household. A few characters even took turns I wasn't expecting, and I found that some of my favorite characters by the end of the book were unexpected. In the end, I loved how intelligent this duology is. The relationships, plots, and politics are all well crafted. I even found it exciting, which I didn't expect! The plot had a fluidity that felt real since things couldn\u2019t always go as planned for our conspirators. In the end, this was a great tale and I hope many of you are willing to explore the story. After all, we have a bratty 16-year-old who turns into a strong female spy master. Aly's transformation is remarkable and completely realistic. What is there not to like? ...more I would have read this book right after finishing Trickster's Choice but I'm always afraid there'll be too much rehashing of previous events etc., which gets really annoying. Instead, there's very very little, and what there is is slipped in there naturally. I was rather surprised at the things I'd forgotten, like about Duke Mequen! That was pretty significant, I'm surprised I'd forgotten that. The Balitang family return to the capital of Rajmuat where the formidable matriarch of the family, Aunt I would have read this book right after finishing Trickster's Choice but I'm always afraid there'll be too much rehashing of previous events etc., which gets really annoying. Instead, there's very very little, and what there is is slipped in there naturally. I was rather surprised at the things I'd forgotten, like about Duke Mequen! That was pretty significant, I'm surprised I'd forgotten that. The Balitang family return to the capital of Rajmuat where the formidable matriarch of the family, Aunt Niritin, has things well in hand. The conspiracy amongst the Raka and the household servants, with Aly as spymaster, has some serious clout and Dove on their side. The Regents of the Rittevon boy-king, Dunevon, are suspicious, prickly, unloved and reactive; it doesn't take much from Aly to aggravate their worst points and turn the populace against them, though they certainly didn't need much help for that. Nawat, the crow-man, leaves Aly to help the rebels on other islands and to grow into himself. Gifts from Aly's home make things really interesting. The relationships and politics in this particular volume are handled very well - never boring, even the plotting is exciting. What Pierce did with Sarai and Dove I absolutely love - she's not an author to be boxed in but allows for change and fluidity, and it worked out better than the original plan. I adored the darkings, which were very original and fresh and entertaining. While I did find that Aly's personal thoughts and feelings weren't delved into enough, especially in relation to Nawat, had I been reading this at 14, say, I would have been very satisfied. Probably my imagination was more active at the time and needed less direction? There's great intelligence and craftiness in this duology, as well as enjoyable characters and unique fantasy elements. Highly recommended; just don't be distracted by a few cringe-inducing past tense verbs - \"treaded\" is NOT a word, the past tense of \"tread\" is \"trod\". Grrr. ...more Grades: 7 to 10 Genre: Fantasy No longer a slave, Aly\u2019s life is still far from simple as she has become part of the plot to place a Raka queen on the throne of the Copper Isles. Over the winter she has become a master of spies for the rebellion. Another complication in her life is her relationship with the half man, half crow Nawat. He wants to solidify their relationship and can\u2019t understand Aly\u2019s hesitation. The family Aly serves is moving back to the city to become part of the court there. Hop Grades: 7 to 10\tGenre: Fantasy No longer a slave, Aly\u2019s life is still far from simple as she has become part of the plot to place a Raka queen on the throne of the Copper Isles. Over the winter she has become a master of spies for the rebellion. Another complication in her life is her relationship with the half man, half crow Nawat. He wants to solidify their relationship and can\u2019t understand Aly\u2019s hesitation. The family Aly serves is moving back to the city to become part of the court there. Hoping to use the Balitangs return to favor to further the rebellion, Aly makes new contact in the city and starts to move the plot forward. While at first it appears that Sarai, the oldest Balitang daughter, is the one of which the prophecy speaks of, but time makes it apparent that it is indeed Dove who will become the new queen. Aly\u2019s charm and wit continue to make this book enjoyable. The quick moving plot and sudden turns will keep readers interested. ...more Aly is one of my all-time favorite heroines to hail from Tortall. That she uses her intelligence and quick wit to accomplish everything that she does in astonishing. I love getting lost in the dark and twisty place that is the spy world of the Copper Isles. I've read these books so many times and will continue to do so - I just can't get enough. Highly recommended to anyone, anywhere, anytime. Usually the sequel to a book isn\u2019t nearly as good as the first one, but this was an exception. Possibly I liked this book more than the first one. Pierce continues in her quest to put a half raka girl on the throne, and take down the current rulers who are mistreating the raka. On the way she endangers and saves and endangers again her creations, making a wonderful story. Only a few new people are introduced into this tail, but only a few are needed. If possible, I think this sequel is more action Usually the sequel to a book isn\u2019t nearly as good as the first one, but this was an exception. Possibly I liked this book more than the first one. Pierce continues in her quest to put a half raka girl on the throne, and take down the current rulers who are mistreating the raka. On the way she endangers and saves and endangers again her creations, making a wonderful story. Only a few new people are introduced into this tail, but only a few are needed. If possible, I think this sequel is more action-packed than its prequel, and that\u2019s saying a lot. Pierce even manages to close with a beautiful ending. I\u2019m impressed, because of all the times everyone would get killed and the whole quest is for nothing. But it gets wrapped up marvelously, and everything turns out fine in the end. Of cores, there are a few deaths, but all in all it was great\u2026and a story like that can\u2019t have everyone live. It just wouldn\u2019t be possible. There is a bit of violence, but not any language that I picked up on, and the gruesome scenes aren\u2019t described in vivid detail, so I think this book can even be for youngsters. Just make sure you read the first one, or you\u2019ll be lost to the very end. Unlike some books, there aren\u2019t too many reminders of who this is or what that is. You might want to read them close together so that you don\u2019t forget too much. ...more Quite the fun read. I always like these kinds of fantasy stories, and the world is so rich with detail about the world and lands created. The history of each country, there to explain why certain types of people feel certain ways about one another; it's just so elaborate and just what a spy would need to know about to survive in a rival country. Another thing I like about Pierce is that her girls are full of adventure and believe, like me, that they can do anything. Aly's wits are sharp and she i Quite the fun read. I always like these kinds of fantasy stories, and the world is so rich with detail about the world and lands created. The history of each country, there to explain why certain types of people feel certain ways about one another; it's just so elaborate and just what a spy would need to know about to survive in a rival country. Another thing I like about Pierce is that her girls are full of adventure and believe, like me, that they can do anything. Aly's wits are sharp and she is definitely one with the trickster in her ways. The family she protects is interesting as well. Born of two races, the two older girls don't seem to know much of their heritage, just that people of both races seem to respect them. The elder is what you might expect from a beauty, and the younger what you might suspect from the meek younger sister. But Dove has definitely gotten the brains in the family, even if this revolution appears to be for her older sister. Somehow, I don't think things are going to quite work out the way they all seem to suspect later in the series. The crow part was interesting. I almost feel like it was too much, giving Aly the crows, because it made it so much easier to win. The odds are definitely stacked on her side with them flying about and forewarning her of travelers and danger. I thought it was super cool that she had to learn how to speak to them, though. I wouldn't mind lessons in my dreams about learning another language. That would seriously save so much time. Her crow boy is odd too. I can't quite tell if she likes him or is just constantly exasperated by him. Maybe a little of both? ...more I'm a huge Tamora Pierce fan. Her Song of the Lioness and Immortals series both count among my childhood-defining books (I feel secure in crediting Alanna with my strange fascination with girls disguising themselves as boys, and Daine and Numair were likely a part of why I like a good mentor/student relationship). So I was really freaking excited when her new series came out. Pierce is great with character continuity, and she likes to bring characters from former series into her new ones, which I'm a huge Tamora Pierce fan. Her Song of the Lioness and Immortals series both count among my childhood-defining books (I feel secure in crediting Alanna with my strange fascination with girls disguising themselves as boys, and Daine and Numair were likely a part of why I like a good mentor/student relationship). So I was really freaking excited when her new series came out. Pierce is great with character continuity, and she likes to bring characters from former series into her new ones, which I love. Plus, the main character, Aly, is Alanna's daughter, which pretty much guaranteed the girl would kick some ass. And she did kick some ass. Too much, really. Alanna and Daine (Pierce's previous protagonists, for the record) were both strong, fully formed characters. They had flaws, and weaknesses, just as they had talents and strengths. Her strong, realistic female characters are a huge part of why I'm such a huge fan. So when I realized that Aly had inherited all of her mother's talents and powers, a long with her father's, plus she had every important or talented person in the entire kingdom fawning over her and teaching her their skills (all of which she excelled at, of course), I was flat out pissed. It's a long fall down from Pierce's earlier protagonists to Aly, and it was a painful landing. That said, the book was fun, I appreciate that Pierce at least got Aly out on her own in the world, and Pierce's flat characters are still good characters overall. ...more As usual, Pierce creates interesting characters with depth as well as growth. As a sequel to Trickster's Choice, I liked that she provided plot twists and didn't head in the exact direction she implied from the first book. This book is a fast paced adventure story, but also shows provides an interesting look at political intrigue and the consequences of a weak and ineffectual monarchy. Also as usual, my biggest point of contention with Pierce is the premarital sex between important characters. Th As usual, Pierce creates interesting characters with depth as well as growth. As a sequel to Trickster's Choice, I liked that she provided plot twists and didn't head in the exact direction she implied from the first book. This book is a fast paced adventure story, but also shows provides an interesting look at political intrigue and the consequences of a weak and ineffectual monarchy. Also as usual, my biggest point of contention with Pierce is the premarital sex between important characters. Thankfully, the events are brief and merely implied (like a PG movie quickly switching to a new scene at the right moment). In spite of the discretion, I don't like the attitude about sex that this presents to the teen reading crowd. I would let a teen read the book, but I would make sure they knew that isn't the attitude that should be considered acceptable. ...more This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/ The duchess has freed Aly from slavery and now she is spy and leader of the underground rebellion to put a Raka Queen on the throne of the Copper Isles. The Balitang family plus Aly are returning to Rajmuat, and it is Aly job to put Sarai on the throne. This is a very good book but it is a complex story and is very political, however, Tamora Pierce pulls this off. I love a lot of the characters and even the minor pe This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/ The duchess has freed Aly from slavery and now she is spy and leader of the underground rebellion to put a Raka Queen on the throne of the Copper Isles. The Balitang family plus Aly are returning to Rajmuat, and it is Aly job to put Sarai on the throne. This is a very good book but it is a complex story and is very political, however, Tamora Pierce pulls this off. I love a lot of the characters and even the minor people are still really developed. I would recommend Trickster\u2019s Queen to anyone who liked Trickster\u2019s Choice or other Tamora Pierce books. ...more This book was good again I love all the books MORE TORTALL BOOKS PLEASE So great! MORE TO COME when I have more coherent thoughts and it's not time to sleep! Second in the Daughter of the Lioness young adult adventure-fantasy series (seventeenth in the overall Tortall series) about Aly Cooper, 16-year-old spy for the raka rebellion. If you're interested, there is a chronological listing of the Tortall books on my website. My Take Most of Pierce's stories are written at a children's level. This series is geared more toward young adults simply because of the longer sentence lengths, more sophisticated wording, and the greater reading comprehension requir Second in the Daughter of the Lioness young adult adventure-fantasy series (seventeenth in the overall Tortall series) about Aly Cooper, 16-year-old spy for the raka rebellion. If you're interested, there is a chronological listing of the Tortall books on my website. My Take Most of Pierce's stories are written at a children's level. This series is geared more toward young adults simply because of the longer sentence lengths, more sophisticated wording, and the greater reading comprehension required. Do not however let this hold your kids back! This is a fascinating read and much too compelling to put down easily!! I still disagree with Pierce's placing Ulasim in the role of a footman. In most noble or royal houses, a footman is a lower class of servant. It would have been much, much more appropriate to have made him a butler or steward. I very much enjoyed Aly's cheeky responses to people. It would be a good skill to acquire and a great way to disarm people who are angry with you. The Story The Duchess has freed Aly from slavery and Aly has taken over intelligence operations for the raka rebellion. A position made easier when Kyprioth takes her in hand, for Prince Rubinyan and Princess Imajane are perfectly comfortable with assassination and betrayal. Fortunately, when the Balitang household returns to Rajmuat from exile, Aunt Nuritin is there to ease their return, but there isn't anything Aunt Nuritin can do about the metaphysical signs of approval. The danger only increases when the Princess commands the Balitang family to the Palace. For the young Duke Elsren to play with the three-year-old King Dunevon and the ladies of the family to return to Court. Under Princess Imajane's eye. Dangerous for Aly as well when she is dragged before the king's spymaster. Even more dangerous when she discovers how extremely competent Taybur Sibigat is at spycraft. At first, the regency is without problem but then the betrayals begin, a situation of which Aly takes advantage, pushing for rebellion. But then Princess Imajane proposes a marriage. A suggestion that sets Lady Sarai off on a dangerous course before a horrible act fans the flames. The Characters Alianne \"Aly\" Cooper was recruited by Kyprioth as a bodyguard. Nawat Crow is a crow shifter who took human form in order to court Aly. Tkaa , a basilisk who is friends with Aly's parents, arrives at Court with gifts for the new king. Darkings are small magical beings which can take on any shape and transmit what they hear and see to each other. Sir Alanna and Baron George Cooper are Aly's parents and have been worried sick about her. Aly's brothers are Thom , the family mage, while Alan , her twin, entered page training over three years ago. Duchess Winnamine Balitang 's son Elsren is next-in-line to the throne after Dunevon; the duke was killed in Trickster's Choice by the betrayer, Prince Bronau . The duke's half-raka daughters from his first marriage, Saraiyu and Dovasary , and his luarin daughter with Winnamine, Petranne , are back in Rajmuat on Kypriang Island amongst the Copper Isles. Aunt Nuritin Balitang is the de facto head of the Balitang household. Ulasim is the head footman and the commander of the raka rebellion while Chenaol , the family cook, is in charge of weapon procurement for the rebellion. Fesgao is still a man-at-arms and the war leader of the rebel army. Ochobu , a raka healer and mage for the rebels, accompanies the family back from exile along with Junai Dodeka , Ulasim's daughter. Their old healer nursemaid, Rihani , is still with them and a warrior in the raka cause and now Dove's bodyguard. Quedanga , their old housekeeper, comes back to the household and gathers in the gossip and talk of the markets from servants, slaves, artisans, priests, and more. Ysul is the Chain's mage in the Windward District of Rajmuat, Ochobu's equal in power. In Trickster's Choice , Aly began training selected servants to function as her spies and includes Boulaj , Sarai's maid; Pembery , Winnamane's maid; Atisa and Guchol Libo are sisters; Kioka ; Eyun ; Rasaj ; Jimarn ; Yoyox ; Fegoro ; Olkey ; Hiraos ; Lokak ; Ukali ; Gian , Elsren's manservant; Dorilize , Lady Nuritin's maid; Wayan , a house messenger; and, Bacar , a footman in another's house. Then there are the ones whom Aly converts, double agents like Vitorcine Townsend . Vereyu is the head of the raka spy network in the palace while Callyn works for the harbormaster. Nobles who are looking to rebel against Princess Imajane include Lord and Lady Wesedi , Lady Adona , Lord and Lady Obemaek , and Lord and Lady Lelin . Baron Qovold Engan is the royal astronomer and the Lady Dove's former tutor in cartography and astronomy. Duke Vurquan Nomru , a former commander of the army, is one of Dove's favorite chess partners. Imgehai Qeshi , Winnamine's father, is a priestess of the Black God. Matfrid Fonfala . Prince Rubinyan Jimajen is married to Princess Imajane , the dead King Oron's half sister. Their three-year-old son, Dunevon , is first-in-line to the throne after King Hazarin . Taybur Sibigat is the new commander of the King's Guard. He also cares very much for the young king. Duke Lohearn Mantawu, a.k.a., Topabaw , is the spymaster for the Copper Isles and a mage. Aly reports her findings to Master Grosbeak . Sevmire Ambau is Rubinyan's private spymaster. A Catharki, Lord Zaimid Hetnim , is one of the courtiers paying court to Lady Sarai. He is also the youngest mage to become head of the Imperial University's Healers' Wing in Cathark. Count Ferdolin Tomang is a wealthy noble also courting Sarai. Kyprioth is the Great God, the Trickster, to the raka and ready to re-take the Copper Isles and put a raka queen back on its throne. Mithros is the Great God to the luarin. He and the Great Goddess , Alanna's patroness, are siblings to Kyprioth, but several hundred years ago, they overthrew Kyprioth and the raka. The Graveyard Hag , a lesser trickster, plans a joke on Kyprioth. The Cover and Title This cover with its dark brown background displays the left side of Lady Dovasary's face, almost a mirror twin to the cover on Trickster's Choice . Instead of a brown hood, Lady Dove's hair is gathered behind her neck with a copper chiffony light gathered atop her head and trailing behind. The title is apt as this time the Trickster's Queen is chosen and installed. ...more Oy. Ms. Pierce, you kill me. I recently completed the Song of the Lioness quartet and The Immortals series, rereading them for the first time since I was a teenager (over a decade) since I was curious to see how they held up. I was thrilled to find that none of their potency or charm had faded with age. The series are both comprised of well-written, fast-paced, and engrossing books, so I took up the Daughter of the Lioness books with the exuberance and confidence that I would love them just as m Oy. Ms. Pierce, you kill me. I recently completed the Song of the Lioness quartet and The Immortals series, rereading them for the first time since I was a teenager (over a decade) since I was curious to see how they held up. I was thrilled to find that none of their potency or charm had faded with age. The series are both comprised of well-written, fast-paced, and engrossing books, so I took up the Daughter of the Lioness books with the exuberance and confidence that I would love them just as much. To make a long story short (unlike Ms. Pierce's apparent aim in Daughter of the Lioness ), I didn't. I have been reading the other reviews and it seems that the ones in the 1-3 star range had the same issues I did: too much tell, not enough show; Aly's lack of character growth; a total absence of tension or fear of danger for any of the main characters. I'm not even finished this book yet and I'm writing my review because it's taking me so long to get through it -- literally, I had all four books in Song of the Lioness read in the time it's taken me to get halfway through Trickster's Queen . Passages like this convoluted monstrosity: As the meeting broke up, Aly drifted over to Ulasim. \"How go things at Galodon?\" she asked, curious, though if he refused to answer, she would ask Trick to query Ace, the darking who hid under the chair Ulasim normally used. pull me completely out of the flow of the story (if I ever even manage to get into it at all). I admit that I don't find Aly as insufferable as some other reviewers, maybe because I'm too sympathetic to the plucky/strong female heroine trope, but even with my inherent bias I find it hard to give a half-shit about anything that Aly does, because if reading Trickster's Choice taught me anything (other than how not to develop a character), it's that \"Aly Bright Eyes\" (please kill me) always gets off scott free. On top of that, while I appreciate Ms. Pierce's inclusion of POC characters in a fantasy setting, the fact that Aly so readily fulfills the \"white saviour\" stereotype prompts so many cringe-worthy moments as to nullify whatever good that representation could have accomplished. Aly being god-touched notwithstanding, she is a smarmy 16-year-old who has little to no experience in the field, and somehow she still has full-grown men and women who have spent 10+ years of their lives crafting a rebellion \"regarding her with awe\", calling her a marvel, and describing in nearly parodical detail how amazed they are by her ability to know what is happening everywhere at once and account for it strategically. It is boring as anything to read through and never once feel that Aly's assessments of every single person or situation that she's analyzed will prove to be false, or that somehow she's been duped, or that her instincts were wrong. Although Aly credits the involvement of the gods, and the darkings, with her success as Spymaster in Rajamut, her use and understanding of literally every person's (god, darking, or otherwise) motives and of how to manipulate them is never wrong, and even in the one instance where it is, it amounts to nothing less than a blessing in disguise for her, and ultimately creates no problem that she has to solve or work around. I think someone said it better than me that all the antagonists in this book are set up to either be laughably incompetent or admire Aly so much for her spy game ability that they alternately ignore or praise her for being so slick. The aim of a good spy story is to create intrigue between characters and weave an ever-tightening web of danger as the protagonist attempts to navigate his/her way through it with, in many cases, only their wits to protect them. By neutering the villains in this series and giving Aly a seemingly impenetrable aura of wit, charm, magic, book-learned/inherited strategies, the infallible ability to read and manipulate people, and magical helpers galore, Ms. Pierce has effectively created a spy story with no intrigue, no danger, and no doubt in the reader's mind that our protagonist will come out on top with minimal losses, and a total absence of any profound changes. Despite several (painfully awkward) reassurances in text that \"Aly could tell her attitude/behaviour/beliefs had changed\", nothing about Aly's actions in either volume speak to that. Overall, this is one dull book series, sorely in need of some multi-dimensional antagonists and some real challenges to shake up the protagonist's world. ...more My main problem with the book was the main character- Aly. I thought she'd improve from the first book, but if anything, she got worse. Aly is arrogant, annoying, patronizing- the list goes on and on. Everything she does is right, everything she thinks turns out to be true, and absolutely nothing catches her off-guard. No matter what happens, she knows what to do (a teenager with no field experience) and she's not at all upset. I won't give spoilers with specific examples, but it is incredibly My main problem with the book was the main character- Aly. I thought she'd improve from the first book, but if anything, she got worse. Aly is arrogant, annoying, patronizing- the list goes on and on. Everything she does is right, everything she thinks turns out to be true, and absolutely nothing catches her off-guard. No matter what happens, she knows what to do (a teenager with no field experience) and she's not at all upset. I won't give spoilers with specific examples, but it is incredibly annoying. There's also the way that she just comes into a country and takes over the oppressed nation's rebellion. A sixteen year old servant, and she just waltzes in and takes over. Never mind that we repeatedly see that there were far more qualified leaders of the rebellion (who for some reason have no problem handing over control to someone they hardly know) who are putting much better plans into place without her (not that she's willing to learn from anyone else, of course)- Aly's in charge. Why? Because...uh...um...well, it was necessary for the plot. Best answer I can come up with. Then there's her arrogance and the way she patronizes everyone (including a god... the book would have been so much better if he'd taught her the lesson she desperately needed). Aly is... what, eighteen at most? Yet she goes around calling everyone \"my dear\" or something equally ridiculous, and she keeps patting everyone on the cheek. Everyone, of course, doesn't mind at all, and at several points says \"what a horribly arrogant and innapropriate thing to do, but it's YOU, Aly\"... all I could think was \"THE Captain James Tiberius Kirk?\". Aly is also painfully aware of her body (okay, she's pretty. Okay, she has curves. Okay, everyone she meets falls in love with her. Okay, her character is completely perfect (despite not being anything close to it). Okay- no, wait, nothing about this is okay. News flash, Tamora Pierce- I COULDN'T CARE LESS HOW PERFECT YOUR CHARACTER IS. Good main characters have FLAWS). She's always showing it off and flirting with boys, often instead of concentrating on her work (which reminds me... Nawat, the one character I liked, goes off on some spiritual journey and comes back completely cleansed of all of his likeable traits). I think at some point she even spends a page or so detailing how she couldn't bear to tease boys anymore and she regards flirting for fun as mean and couldn't possibly do it... a scene or two later, she's back to her old tricks, maybe even worse than before. What happened? Where did Alanna go? She was a normal person. Kel was a normal person (aside from unimaginable degrees of awesomeness, but hey, anything's possible). Daine was a normal person. So where did Aly come from, with examples like this? How did this happen? Yes, she could theoretically exist... but only if she CHANGES. There is no character development, making this book painful to read. It doesn't matter about everything else, all I wanted was for someone to smack some sense into Aly. The plot also left something to be desired, but it's been a while and I don't remember exactly. Hopefully an update to follow when I have more time to think about this clearly and can write comprehensively on the plot. ...more I tripped and fell down a Tamora Pierce rabbit hole this weekend. Here's the thing: Aly was never a compelling character for me. The first book of this duology was weak because it felt purely like setup. This book was weak because everything was so easy. That said, I always liked the final confrontation and I still found it exciting on this reread. Here's what stood out to me this particular time around. 1. Man, Aly's parents and godparents are stupid. Why would you teach a really bright young woma I tripped and fell down a Tamora Pierce rabbit hole this weekend. Here's the thing: Aly was never a compelling character for me. The first book of this duology was weak because it felt purely like setup. This book was weak because everything was so easy. That said, I always liked the final confrontation and I still found it exciting on this reread. Here's what stood out to me this particular time around. 1. Man, Aly's parents and godparents are stupid. Why would you teach a really bright young woman all the many ways she can manipulate people, lie, and disappear, and then allow her no way to make use of this talent? Nature abhors a vacuum! Of course she was going to take her talents somewhere they could be used, even if she got there - creatively! And now she's the spymaster for a rival country you aren't officially allied with, while knowing everything about the Tortallan spy system. And you all saunter in to visit like you're okay with that? (I seem to be of the Megan Whalen Turner \"we can't have have a treaty without a marriage\" school of thought. Marriage to Nawat doesn't count.) 2. I liked the minor characters a lot more on this reread. I'd have liked more on Taybur Sibigat! Who is this guy? Why is he so loyal to his baby king? Why do he and Aly have so much more in common than Aly and Nawat? And Ochobu is great, especially when she points out the storm was caused by luarin magic - \"That is to say, Crown magic, because any other mage with sense learns how we work. Why do you think Zaimid Hetnim came here? It wasn't to be called 'brown dog' behind his back by the regents.\" Often Ochobu simply feels like the mage they need instead of a character in her own right, but when she's pointing out key information that rounds out the worldbuilding, she feels much more vital. I like all her contributions about raka magic; I think they quietly demonstrate a lot of important information that descriptions of brute force don't convey as powerfully. 3. I can't decide how I feel about Pierce's obvious slavery/race parallels. They're there, and sometimes they're interesting, and sometimes they're problematic, and overall I'm confused. 4. I did really like the idea that the rebels were planning to crown the older, more charismatic, much less suitable sister while totally blind to how much better a candidate Dove was - even after Sarai absconded. 5. Uh, I don't really like Aly. Or how easily things come to her, or how charming and successful she is. She fails ONCE, and even that ends up being for the best. 6. Tamora Pierce is one of the only authors I know who's actually successful at creating a second generation of characters in the same world. And when I say that, I mean the Kel books. The Aly books feel like third generation, and I don't think they're as successful. All these insipid third generation characters spreading out and interacting (Jon and Thayet's daughter along with Sarai in Carthak, for example) don't matter to me. Jon and Raoul and Gary and Alanna, and Kel and Neal and Merric and Seaver and Co., feel so much more alive and important. When the best moments of the Trickster books are the ones where I got to see Jon interact with Alanna, and Kel duel with Alanna - well, the series starts to feel even weaker. ...more This book is a very effective demonstration of why the Alanna-series works so well. It simply ignores most of what made Tamora Pierce's original series so awesome. The Adventure Alanna's adventures always happen in a very immediate way, with our heroine struggling for the very success of the single pursuit. Maybe the world feels a bit small, as you only get to see what she sees; show not tell. Which is good. Aly, our protagonist in this book, almost never engages in direct conflict. In the first This book is a very effective demonstration of why the Alanna-series works so well. It simply ignores most of what made Tamora Pierce's original series so awesome. The Adventure Alanna's adventures always happen in a very immediate way, with our heroine struggling for the very success of the single pursuit. Maybe the world feels a bit small, as you only get to see what she sees; show not tell. Which is good. Aly, our protagonist in this book, almost never engages in direct conflict. In the first novel, Trickster's Choice, this was somewhat better, as Aly was less omnipotent. But here, we just have our heroine as the spider at the centre of a giant web of information (basically cheap exposition). She is coordinating this giant revolution scheme, which is trying for a sort of game-of-thrones-y feeling with a lot of conspiracies and relativized morals. I appreciate Tamora Pierce trying something different, but we lose the authentic, empathic over-the-shoulder-feeling we had with Alanna and instead get a half-assed, convoluted spy story. The Suspense and the Stakes The Alanna series lives from a very overwhelming world with forces bigger than our heroine. She is very skillful and intelligent, but she has things restricting her, her discomfort of magic, her conflict with her femininity, her constraints as a women in this predominantly male world. The series also has powerful and charismatic antagonists, at most times very personally connected to Alanna. Aly has nothing of all that. She is literally omnipotent. She is intelligent. She knows how to conduct herself socially towards everybody. She controls all the spies of the country and has powerful Dei ex machinae at her bidding. She is even a good physical fighter, even if allegedly, she's oh so different from her mother. She literally doesn't have an antagonist who gets more than a couple of lines in a public setting. Most of the revolution happens in the episodic, boring shenanigans she sets up, mostly attacks on places, stealing stuff, raising public attention. But there are never any stakes since the people who execute those plan's are just named pieces on a chessboard and you can't feel anxious for them. The Personal Drama If you liked Jonathan, George, Myles etc. or not, they always felt like people. The friendships and romantic relationships are natural and heart-warming. Here's the one point I like about this. Our love interest, Nawat, (just one, NO love triangle! In a YA book!) is okay. His and Aly's story is very subtle and the book handles the relationship and sexuality very maturely and calmly. The rest of the relationships are so boring and flat. Sarai and Dove are built just so the story can progress the way it will. (Sarai's the annoying and useless one who's annoyingly the first-born, so the reader can root for the nearly Aly-levels-omnipotent younger sister Dove.) It's bad if the final conclusion of the book is basically reflected in the characterisation. I guess this could make a better movie than a book. You could get rid of Aly's stream of consciousness, both too long and removing all the tension. And you could shorten this thing radically. ...more It's amazing that a writer can produce books as breathtaking as the first two quartets in the Tortall-verse, and also books as terrible as the Daughter of the Lioness-books. What I love about Pierce's writing is the action, the magic, the diverse universe, and the way that you get to really know the characters. None of that happened here. As someone else already phrased it in another review, \"The book reads like an account of someone doing a job - recruiting, reading reports, attending meetings. I It's amazing that a writer can produce books as breathtaking as the first two quartets in the Tortall-verse, and also books as terrible as the Daughter of the Lioness-books. What I love about Pierce's writing is the action, the magic, the diverse universe, and the way that you get to really know the characters. None of that happened here. As someone else already phrased it in another review, \"The book reads like an account of someone doing a job - recruiting, reading reports, attending meetings. It just isn't all that exciting.\" I remarked many times throughout my status updates that this book, and its predecessor, had too many characters. There was no way to keep of all those names - which meant that I didn't grieve for them when they died, and thus, the climax felt flat. The only characters I felt I had really connected to were Dove and Aly. Ah, Aly. Speaking of her: What in the world was going on there? I normally applaud Pierce for her fleshed-out, strong heroines with great character development. But not Aly. I think it's safe to say that the poor girl didn't go through any major changes, from the first page of Trickster's Choice, to the last page of Trickster's Queen. It's true that we were told how she lacked motivation before the whole ordeal, but we only got to see if for a few chapters before she was shipped off to the Copper Isles, and from then on she more or less just took charge. Everything seemed to come to her easily: she already knew how to be a spy, she had the help of a god, and when Sarai eloped, we had another, better suited heir for the throne! The children (Elsren and Dunevon) were killed in a storm by the antagonists, so Aly didn't have to worry about what to do about them either, although she worried about it a lot. Last but not least, Rubinyan was KIA against someone Not-Aly, and Imajane committed suicide before any sort of confrontation could happen. Congratulations, Aly. Only two of the chapters were interesting and had any real action; the climax. Everything else was honestly a struggle to get through. I am personally fearing for the time where I sit down with the Beka Cooper-books, because in my opinion, the Tortall-verse keeps getting worse instead of better. Maybe I'll just huddle with the Song of the Lioness, Wild Magic and Protector of the Small quartets and try to forget that any of this happened. ...more I definitely liked Trickster's Queen better than I liked Trickster's Choice . I still have some of the same problems with it that I had with the previous book, but I think I enjoyed this one more because it felt more like Tamora Pierce's other Tortall books. Cool stuff in Trickster's Queen : -Nuritin Balitang, the great aunt of Dove and Sarai, is wonderful. -DARKINGS. Although I have a complaint about this, too, that I'll get to later. -The names of Daine and Numair's children. Blub. -Dove rea I definitely liked Trickster's Queen better than I liked Trickster's Choice . I still have some of the same problems with it that I had with the previous book, but I think I enjoyed this one more because it felt more like Tamora Pierce's other Tortall books. Cool stuff in Trickster's Queen : -Nuritin Balitang, the great aunt of Dove and Sarai, is wonderful. -DARKINGS. Although I have a complaint about this, too, that I'll get to later. -The names of Daine and Numair's children. Blub. -Dove really comes into her own in this book, and I love when she insists that if she's going to be a queen she's actually going to rule . She doesn't want to be a tyrant, but she won't be a puppet, either. The problem that I have with this book is somewhat related to the problems I had with Trickster's Choice but also, I think, slightly different. In this pair of books, Tamora Pierce delves into politics in a way that she hasn't in previous series, but I'm not sure she's altogether successful with it. I feel like she introduces a lot of moral ambiguity without ever fully exploring it. Throughout Trickster's Choice , Aly is already fretting about the human costs of the planned revolution she is participating in, but by the end of Trickster's Queen she's rattling off casualties with only minor hand-wringing. In\u00a0this book, a tragedy occurs that is, in some ways, fortuitous for the revolutionaries, and Aly feels bad about thinking so but never really seems to be really touched by what has happened. I suppose I could read this as Aly's position and responsibility having a necessarily corrupting effect on her, but this is never fully explored either. By the end of the story, she's happily pregnant and moving on with her life, and I don't think the effect of her experiences is ever quite adequately addressed. ...more I was uncertain when I acquired this series awhile back. The writing, for various reasons, has grew and changed from Alanna most defiantly. It was amusing and a bit awkward at points to see references towards previous characters. Disturbing perhaps due to a feeling of time-skip. Ie last we heard of Daine, aside from Protector of the Small, she was getting along with Numair and now she has children. Disorienting with the peaks throughout Protector and Daughter of the Lioness. The writing itself c I was uncertain when I acquired this series awhile back. The writing, for various reasons, has grew and changed from Alanna most defiantly. It was amusing and a bit awkward at points to see references towards previous characters. Disturbing perhaps due to a feeling of time-skip. Ie last we heard of Daine, aside from Protector of the Small, she was getting along with Numair and now she has children. Disorienting with the peaks throughout Protector and Daughter of the Lioness. The writing itself can be heavy compared to the past but it allows ample description and flow of the story. The...maturity of the writing, ie deaths, violence, are more realistic compared to before. More to the Earth. Although it felt crammed near the end with \"and thats how it all happens\". Almost an anticlimax as it was built over two books. The revolution was quick, battles were quick, ending was..well...an end. Unless you count the other tale. I initially didn't like Nuwat and Aly. Perhaps because its different. In Alanna and Kel, there were choices. But Daine didn't have to choose. Aly though...was written differently. It wasn't a matter of being crow-man cause heck, after re-reading Immortals a lot (since middle school till now :3) and realizing that Numair was...quite older than Daine, I wasn't freaked out and such at all. Its just...the way Nuwat/Aly played out. Perhaps it was the setting, the story, the character. *shrug* That's why I liked it but couldn't bring myself to really like it. Maybe its just the longing for...more. Other tales aside, its just these books leave me with wanting more :) Now...onto Bloodhound. ...more Aly has become my new favorite character in Pierce's compilation of series. Prior to reading the Trickster's books, I had been most fond of Daine. Why is Aly such a great character? Because she's smart, doesn't rely too much on fighting but rather on manipulating events, is passionate about helping people, coolheaded, and her gift isn't entirely too overpowered as I found Daine's to be. Also, the life of a spy is so much better to read about than the life of a knight (sorry, Alanna, Kel!). While Aly has become my new favorite character in Pierce's compilation of series. Prior to reading the Trickster's books, I had been most fond of Daine. Why is Aly such a great character? Because she's smart, doesn't rely too much on fighting but rather on manipulating events, is passionate about helping people, coolheaded, and her gift isn't entirely too overpowered as I found Daine's to be. Also, the life of a spy is so much better to read about than the life of a knight (sorry, Alanna, Kel!). While Nawat and Aly weren't my favorite couple (Numair and Daine, followed by George and Alanna remain my top), they weren't horrible. Honestly, I wasn't too big on the whole 'let me feed you bugs' thing, but Nawat began to grow on me by the end of the second book. As for the secondary characters, I really enjoyed those too. I feel they played a prominent role in the Trickster's series than they did in other books. Then again, they had to in order to set off a revolution! I was particularly fond of Dove; even though she wasn't able to attract people through beauty and charm, she could do so by being a normal human being. I had a feeling things would turn out the way they did. Overall, any fan of Pierce's Tortall (and other lands) series should pick these two books up. Once you get into it, you get into it. ...more Just finished Trickster's Choice and Trickster's Queen by the amazing Tamora Pierce. Yes, I am a HUGE fan. I was so sad when I finished The Song of the Lioness Quartet with Alanna and George but the Immortals Quartet took me back to Tortall. Alanna was still there but there were new characters to fall in love with - Daine and my personal favorite Numair. Next came Keladry of Mindelan and The Protector of the Small Quartet and after they were done I thought nothing could compare to those characte Just finished Trickster's Choice and Trickster's Queen by the amazing Tamora Pierce. Yes, I am a HUGE fan. I was so sad when I finished The Song of the Lioness Quartet with Alanna and George but the Immortals Quartet took me back to Tortall. Alanna was still there but there were new characters to fall in love with - Daine and my personal favorite Numair. Next came Keladry of Mindelan and The Protector of the Small Quartet and after they were done I thought nothing could compare to those characters. But I was wrong. The Trickster books give us Aly's story. Aly is the daughter of Alanna the Lioness and George the Spymaster. Aly sets out for a quick sail in her boat and is taken and sold into slavery in the Copper Isles where the brown-skinned raka people had been preparing to revolt against the white-skinned luarin ruling class, the house of Rittevon. Aly ends up in the Balitang household where two daughters Saraiyu and Dovesary share both bloodlines. The time is ripe for rebellion and Aly uses her skills as the daughter of a warrior mother and spymaster father to change their world. Am I devastated that their stories are done? Well I've heard that next year there's a trilogy coming with Numair's back story. So thank you Ms. Pierce! Keep those wonderful stories coming! ...more I loved Trickster's Queen even though I did not read its prequel, Trickster's Choice. I purchased the novel under the false pretense that it was not a sequel, and finished it before looking at the \"other works by this author\" page and realizing that there were a multitude of books about the same world. However, in Tricker's Queen the author does a wonderful job of giving background about the characters and their rebellion. I didn't feel like I was confused or in the dark about the story despite I loved Trickster's Queen even though I did not read its prequel, Trickster's Choice. I purchased the novel under the false pretense that it was not a sequel, and finished it before looking at the \"other works by this author\" page and realizing that there were a multitude of books about the same world. However, in Tricker's Queen the author does a wonderful job of giving background about the characters and their rebellion. I didn't feel like I was confused or in the dark about the story despite my having not read the first book. I loved the different roles that Aly plays and all of her different levels of deception. I also loved the description of the relationships between servants and nobility and all of the pomp and circumstance involved with the court and the royals. I think that the cover is interesting but nothing particularly wonderful, and the relationships between the characters are believable and intriguing. I loved the storyline; it was original and and unpredictable. I would recommend this book to those who are fans of epic fantasy sagas such as Harry Potter and Eragon. I plan on reading the first book in this series as well as the preceeding series and reviewing it, but if the sequel is as as good as its predecessor then it is a worthwhile read as well! ...more Trickster's Queen is, in my opinion one of Tamora Pierce 's best novels. Continuing the story of Alianne Cooper - the only daughter of Alanna the Lioness - that was begun in Trickster's Choice , it also involves a few characters from Tamora Pierce's Immortals Quartet, including the small black creatures called Darkings, who are made of magic and make perfect spies. In this novel, Aly helps to head the Kyprian resistance movement in the Copper Isles, serving as their spymaster. Clever and humorous, Trickster's Queen is, in my opinion one of Tamora Pierce 's best novels. Continuing the story of Alianne Cooper - the only daughter of Alanna the Lioness - that was begun in Trickster's Choice , it also involves a few characters from Tamora Pierce's Immortals Quartet, including the small black creatures called Darkings, who are made of magic and make perfect spies. In this novel, Aly helps to head the Kyprian resistance movement in the Copper Isles, serving as their spymaster. Clever and humorous, Aly manages tremendous feats using nothing more than her mind, her set of spy skills taught to her by her father, the Darkings, and her ability to see magic. Full of twists and turns, romance and intrigue, warriors and mages, and surprise visits from powerful gods, Trickster's Queen is a stunning and brilliant conclusion to the Daughter of the Lioness duo. ...more The writer in this series is one of my favorites I know of, with two great series that I have read, and another I sadly can't seem to find anywhere. She is a great world builder, and it really shows in this series. In fact, I will probably bring a lot of this review to explain simply just how well built it is. There are lots of different nations and countries, but only two or three are focused on. Despite this, all of the different places have different ways of dressing and little quirks that ma The writer in this series is one of my favorites I know of, with two great series that I have read, and another I sadly can't seem to find anywhere. She is a great world builder, and it really shows in this series. In fact, I will probably bring a lot of this review to explain simply just how well built it is. There are lots of different nations and countries, but only two or three are focused on. Despite this, all of the different places have different ways of dressing and little quirks that makes them identifiable as from where they are even if the narrator doesn't say it directly. Especially since the way these books are written in such a way small details are repeated over in the books subtly so they stick with you. You find yourself understanding the foreshadowing and stopping to stare at the book when you realize what is going to happen. It's fantastic and makes for a great read. ...more Read July 10, 2014 --- Read 2007: I adore this book. Even more than the first one, Trickster's Choice. Why? Well, where the first one was just about Ali making a pact with the trickster god, and keeping his chargers alive throughout the summer, this book was all about Ali finding her own place, carving out her own nook as spymaster for the future queen of the Copper Isles. Packed with rebellion, spies, plots, crazy royalty, crazier gods, love, romance, headstrong women and even more, this novel ju Read July 10, 2014 --- Read 2007: I adore this book. Even more than the first one, Trickster's Choice. Why? Well, where the first one was just about Ali making a pact with the trickster god, and keeping his chargers alive throughout the summer, this book was all about Ali finding her own place, carving out her own nook as spymaster for the future queen of the Copper Isles. Packed with rebellion, spies, plots, crazy royalty, crazier gods, love, romance, headstrong women and even more, this novel just made my day. If I ever just want a really good book to curl up with, where I know I will love the story and I will want to finish the whole book, I'd pick this novel. It has everything that a great novel needs, and then that little pinch of extra that sets it apart from most other books. Definitely worth reading. And then rereading! ...more<---C>Tamora Pierce</---C>", "Title": "Trickster's Queen"},
